{"id": "17978206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17978206", "title": "Alabama International Trade Center", "text": "Alabama International Trade Center\n\nThe Alabama International Trade Center was created in 1979 as one of the first \"international SBDCs\". Since its inception, the AITC has provided export trade research, education, finance, and training throughout Alabama. \n\nDr. William R. Bennett, Emeritus Professor of Marketing and International Business at the University of Alabama, founded the Trade Center in 1979. AITC was one of the first university-based small business development centers in the country that focused specifically on international trade. Following Dr. Bennett's retirement in 1983, Ms. Nisa Miranda, who had helped Bennett establish the Center while completing her MBA, was promoted to Director. Miranda would oversee the Center's growth and development for the next 21 years, helping the Center become designated as SBA's State Model of Excellence in International Trade. (Miranda has since moved on to become Director of the University of Alabama's Center for Economic Development.\n\nIn 2004, Mr. Brian Davis, who had served as the Trade Center's Associate Director since 1985, took over as Director. Davis is the former president of the Alabama World Trade Association (AWTA) and NASBITE International. In addition to serving on the University's Advisory Board for International Business, Davis also teaches an import-export class at the Culverhouse College of Commerce & Business Administration.\n\nAITC currently employs several consultants:\n\nIn addition to the professional staff, AITC employs up to 20 Research Fellows as part of its research staff. The Research Fellows are hired on a competitive basis, and consist of graduate and undergraduate students with expertise in market research, business strategy, foreign relations, political science, and foreign languages. Mr. Brooks has been in charge of hiring and training the research staff since 1998; Brooks also serves as the Center's Senior International Trade Specialist.\n\nThe Trade Center is part of the Alabama Small Business Development Center Network, a statewide network of 10 management and technical assistance centers.\n\nThe Small Business Administration (SBA) is a United States government agency that provides support to small businesses. The SBA was created by way of the Small Business Act of July 30, 1953.\n\nThe Alabama International Trade Center is a founding member of the Export Alabama Trade Alliance. Export Alabama is a group of government agencies, business and professional associations, and economic development entities in Alabama that share the fundamental goal of helping Alabama companies to grow their business internationally. The list of Export Alabama partners includes:\n\n\nAs part of the Export Alabama team, AITC provides input that helps drive the Governor's Annual Trade Strategy.\n\n"}
{"id": "14979118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14979118", "title": "Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Building", "text": "Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Building\n\nThe Alex. Brown & Sons building is a historical structure located at 135 East Baltimore Street in Baltimore, Maryland. During the 20th century it served as the corporate headquarters for the banking firm Alex. Brown & Sons, the oldest in the United States when it was purchased by Bankers Trust in 1997. The two story building, completed in 1901 and designed by the partnership of J. Harleston Parker and Douglas H. Thomas. Jr., survived the 1904 Baltimore fire. The building was modified on the Calvert Street side and in the interior by the firm Beecher, Friz, and Gregg in 1905.\n\nThe building was sold to Chevy Chase Bank in 1997. A plaque on the side of the building states:\n\nA thorough historical renovation of the building was completed in 1996 when it was reopened as a traditional retail bank branch. The beautiful stained glass dome, probably the work of Baltimore artist Gustave Baumstark (who studied under both Louis C. Tiffany and John LaFarge) was cleaned and refurbished. The marble columns and the plaster moldings of the great banking hall were restored to their original designs. During the renovation the original teller line was reconstructed. Even such details as the design and placement of the freestanding furniture now in existence in the bank branch were designed to mimic the original furniture.\n\nThe Alex. Brown & Sons Building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "17980562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17980562", "title": "Alfredo de Angeli", "text": "Alfredo de Angeli\n\nAlfredo de Angeli (born July 1, 1956) is a rural leader of the Federación Agraria Argentina of Entre Ríos and of the ecology movement of the Asamblea Ciudadana Ambiental de Gualeguaychú. He became famous during Argentina's longest farmer strike, during which he led one of the hardline groups, blocking the strategic Ruta Nacional Nº 14, also known as the Mercosur Road, in Gualeguaychú.\n\nOne of nine brothers, he was born and spent his early years in the Paraná department. In July 1980, he settled in Gualeguaychú, in a town named Arroyo El Sauce. \nHe has an identical twin named Atilio, with whom he is usually confused, and who is also his partner in their business society. His twin is the one who dedicates all his time to the agricultural activity, while Alfredo splits his time between his job and his role as rural leader.\nTheir society rents between 675 and 1,100 hectares (according to different sources) to different owners. \nThey cultivate soybean, corn, sunflower and crop. Nowadays he lives in a house near the beach of El Ñandubaysal at Gualeguaychú.\n\n"}
{"id": "27488088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27488088", "title": "Andrea Agnelli", "text": "Andrea Agnelli\n\nAndrea Agnelli (; born 6 December 1975 in Turin) is an Italian businessman and chairman of Italian football club Juventus F.C. Since 2012 he is Executive Member of the European Club Association (ECA) and appointed to join the UEFA Executive Committee since 2015. He is a member of the famous industrialist Agnelli family. He is also a board member of FIAT and Exor.\n\nAgnelli is the son of late Juventus F.C. chairman and senator of the Italian Republic Umberto Agnelli, CEO of Fiat from 1970–1976, and Donna Allegra Caracciolo di Castagneto, first cousin of Marella Agnelli, born Donna Marella Caracciolo di Castagneto and daughter of Filippo Caracciolo, 8th Prince di Castagneto, 3rd Duke di Melito, and a hereditary Patrician of Naples (1903-1965). Marella, widow of Agnelli's uncle Gianni, and Allegra and, therefore, Andrea, are both members of and old Neapolitan noble family that hold the titles of Prince of Castagneto and Duke of Melito, among others.\n\nAndrea was the last male member of the family to carry the Agnelli surname until the birth of his son Giacomo. He studied at St Clare's in Oxford, England and then at Bocconi University in Milan.\n\nAfter university, Agnelli started his career in the business world in England and France at companies including Iveco and Auchan Hypermarché. He also spent several years in Switzerland working in marketing and development for Ferrari Idea S.A. and Lausanne-based Philip Morris International.\n\nIn May 2010 he was appointed Chairman of the board of directors of Juventus by his first cousin John Elkann, becoming the fourth member of the Agnelli family to run the football club after his father, his uncle and his grandfather. Elkann had come under criticism from Juventus fans for the club's poor results during the 2009–10 season and many ultras saw Agnelli as the \"rightful\" heir due to his family's long-time association with the club. Despite entering the job during a period when the club was still dealing with the aftermath of the infamous \"Calciopoli\" scandal, he is credited with overseeing the club's transition into the new stadium and balancing their finances in wake of the ongoing recession ravaging Italy. One of his first acts as new chairman was to appoint Sampdoria duo Giuseppe Marotta as Director of Sport and Luigi Delneri as new coach.\n\nOn 22 May 2011, Agnelli appointed former captain and fan favourite Antonio Conte as the new manager of Juventus, replacing Delneri. The same season Juventus won the first \"scudetto\" undefeated under Agnelli. Since then, Juventus won seven \"scudetti\" in a row as of 2017–18, a record in Serie A, including four Coppa Italia titles in a row since 2014–15.\n\nOn 8 September 2015, Agnelli was re-elected as a member of the European Club Association(ECA) Executive Board, a position he has held since 2012. He was also appointed by the ECA Executive Board to join the UEFA Executive Committee on behalf of ECA, where he will represent the 220 ECA member clubs alongside re-elected ECA chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge for the next two years 2015-17.\n\nIn 2014, some of Juventus' senior management, including Agnelli, were investigated by the Public prosecutor's office of Turin on the management of tickets at the Juventus Stadium, about the alleged infiltration of the 'Ndrangheta in the commercial management of the company's tickets; the public ministers of Turin did not formalize criminal charges against Juventus or its members, closing the investigation three years later with a filing request as there were no links between the Juventus management and the groups and/or individual people involved in organized crime. On 18 March 2017, following the opening of a lawsuit by a prosecutor from the Turin Public Prosecutor's Office, Agnelli was referred by the FIGC's Attorney General along with three other club executives. The following 15 September, the FIGC reformulated its allegations, excluding a presumed Mafia association from the members of the incriminated club after the prosecutor Giuseppe Pecoraro's intervention to the Antimafia Commission in April; the prosecutor asked for sanctions for the meetings of Agnelli with ultra groups and the sale of the tickets by the rest of the offenders beyond the limit allowed per person (thus favouring ticket scalping). On 25 September, Agnelli was banned for one year and fined €20,000, while Juventus were fined €300,000 for selling tickets to ultras, however alleged connections to organized crime were not present in the ruling. On 18 December, Agnelli's ban was lifted, however he was required to pay a €100,000 fine, while the fine against Juventus doubled to €600,000.\n\nOn 27 August 2005 he married Emma Winter in a Roman Catholic ceremony in Villar Perosa (Piedmont, Italy) at the church of San Pietro in Vincoli. The wedding reception was held at Villa Agnelli, Donna Marella Agnelli's estate in Villar Perosa. The couple has two children: Baya Agnelli (born on 24 May 2005 in Turin) and Giacomo Dai Agnelli (born 16 December 2011 in Turin).\n"}
{"id": "10409016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10409016", "title": "Anna Salai", "text": "Anna Salai\n\nAnna Salai, formerly known as St. Thomas Mount Road or simply Mount Road, is an arterial road in Chennai, India. It starts at the Cooum Creek, south of Fort St George, leading in a south-westerly direction towards St. Thomas Mount, and ends at the Kathipara Junction in Guindy. Beyond the Kathipara Junction, a branch road arises traversing westwards to Poonamallee to form the Mount-Poonamallee Road while the main branch continuing southwards to Chennai Airport, Tambaram and beyond to form Grand Southern Trunk Road (GST Road or NH45). Anna Salai, which is more than 400 years old, is acknowledged as the most important road in Chennai city. The head offices of many commercial enterprises and public buildings are located along Anna Salai. It is the second longest road in Chennai, after Poonamallee High Road.\n\nThere were several flyover projects under proposal along the stretch, many of which have been shelved owing to the construction of the Chennai Metro Rail project, which runs along the median of the road. Famous Anna Salai Head Post office is located on this road. Anna Salai Head Post Office was established in 1854 as Mount Road SO as a non- gazetted delivery office. With the growth of commerce & urbanization this SO was upgraded to gazetted in the year 1955. Nomenclature of this Head Post office was changed from Mount Road Head Post office to Anna Road Head Post office on 15.9.1974. In the year 2015, Alok Ojha ( Indian Postal Services) officer, took the Charge of Chief Postmaster Anna Road Head Post office.\n\nAnna Salai is more than 400 years old, and has its origins in a cart track which was used by the European employees of the British East India Company to travel from the factory at Fort St George to the holy town of St Thomas Mount where the apostle St Thomas was crucified. The road, in its present form, took shape during the time of Charles Macartney who served as Governor of Madras. With the construction of Marmalong Bridge in 1724, the road started gaining prominence. In the following years, the road became part of the city's central business district which originally covered only George Town. Today, most of Chennai's business and corporate offices are located on Anna Salai.\n\nBy the 1800s, Mount Road has become the traders' area of the city of Madras while First Line Beach in Georgetown remained the seat of processing, shipping and manufacturing businesses. However, the business activities of Mount Road was responsible for the city's economic growth. Several giant firms had beginnings on Mount Road, from the Amalgamations group to the TVS group. The road's proximity to the Government House, the home of the Governor, and the palaces of the Nawabs of Arcot resulted in several firms selling cars and other luxury goods setting up shops on the road. Simpson & Co, which moved to its current location opposite Government Estate after 1875, began building carriages and coaches and then cars. In 1903, the first steam-driven car was taken for its debut drive on Mount Road. To overcome the Great Depression of the 1930s, Simpon's introduced the hire purchase system for cars and trucks. In the 1930s, the TVS group, which was a travel operator in mofussil areas, was established in Madras by acquiring the Madras Auto Service property. In the 1940s, Anantharamakrishnan helped with the formation of Amalgamations & Co. The city's first skyscraper, the LIC Building, was built in 1959. Several major firms were then established, namely, Spencers & Co, Victoria Family Hotel (the present location of the Indian Overseas Bank Headquarters) and Higginbothams.\n\nAnna Salai starts from the Parktown area of Chennai city where Chennai Central railway terminus is situated. It, then, traverses the Island with its statue of Sir Thomas Munro to the other side of the Coovum before entering the neighbourhoods of Thousand Lights and Teynampet areas. From Teynampet, it continues straight southwards to Nandanam and Saidapet before traversing the Maraimalai Adigal Bridge across the Adyar River to Little Mount and finally, Guindy. Anna Salai is maintained by the Tamil Nadu Highways Department. The road extends for a total of 11 kilometres and traverses the heart of the city.\n\nBy the 2010s, the stretch between Parry's Corner and Nandanam was used by over 16,000 vehicles during rush hour. Anna Salai is used by over 0.183 million vehicles every day. The Metropolitan Transport Corporation in Anna Salai carries about 14,000 passengers per hour per direction.\n\nAnna Salai remains the road in the city experiencing second most number of accidents annually, next only to Jawaharlal Nehru Road (100 ft Inner Ring Road), with one person being injured every 1.13 days. Together, these roads account for almost 14 per cent of the 5,101 accidents that occurred in Chennai in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7600061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7600061", "title": "Anthony Joseph Drexel Biddle Jr.", "text": "Anthony Joseph Drexel Biddle Jr.\n\nAnthony Joseph Drexel Biddle Jr. (December 17, 1897 - November 13, 1961) was a wealthy socialite who became a diplomat of the United States, and served in the United States Army during World War I and after World War II, reaching the rank of major general.\n\nBiddle was the son of millionaire Anthony Joseph Drexel Biddle Sr. (1874–1948), and Cordelia Rundell Bradley (1873–1947). A member of the Biddle family, he was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on December 17, 1897.\nHis father, grandson of banker Anthony Joseph Drexel and great-grandson of banker Nicholas Biddle, was an eccentric boxing fan. When he was ten years old, the younger Biddle was in an exhibition match with Bob Fitzsimmons, who knocked him into a wall with a punch traveling about two inches.\n\nHe graduated from St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire but never attended college.\n\nIn World War I, he first enlisted as a private, and was promoted to rank of captain. In the 1920s he engaged in several business ventures, which were known as social successes but financial failures. For example, he managed Belgian boxer René deVos, and invested in the St. Regis Hotel. A party he held for the boxer at the hotel was marked by the loss of many bottles of fine champagne (at great expense due to prohibition in the United States). \"Guests\" even tried to wheel out the piano before it was retrieved.\n\nBiddle also made a deal to rent part of Central Park in New York City and open an expensive nightclub called The Casino.\nAfter the Wall Street Crash of 1929 many of his investments failed. The Casino was raided and shut down.\nIn 1931 he and other directors of the bankrupt Sonora Products Corporation of America (formerly Acoustic Products Company, in the phonograph and radio business) were sued by the Irving Trust Company. The directors were accused of diverting profits from stock sales into their own accounts. A district court dismissed the claims against the defendants, but the dismissal of Biddle and several others was reversed on appeal.\n\nAfter Biddle was appointed Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Norway on July 22, 1935, he settled the Irving case out of court to avoid a bond required before leaving the country to assume the post. He presented his credentials on September 7, 1935. It was widely suspected he was a political appointee resulting from his support of the Democratic Party and George Howard Earle III, its 1934 successful candidate for Governor of Pennsylvania. However, his social skills made him and his wife ideally suited to being a diplomat.\n\nOn May 4, 1937, he was promoted to Ambassador to Poland and presented his credentials in Warsaw, Poland on June 2, 1937. In September 1939 Germany invaded Poland, which was a major cause of World War II. After Biddle's house was hit with bomb fragments, his family and embassy staff fled to various temporary quarters. After the escape, he joined the Polish government in exile in France until June 1940, when he returned to the US after France was invaded.\n\nOn February 11, 1941, he also commissioned to the governments-in-exile of Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, and Yugoslavia. Biddle arrived in London on March 14, 1941, and continued as ambassador through 1943.\n\nIn January 1944, Biddle resigned from the State Department and joined the Army as lieutenant colonel to serve on the staff of Dwight Eisenhower. His contacts with \"underground\" movements and free military units in occupied nations provided intelligence for the planning of Operation Overlord, the Allied invasion of France. He continued on Eisenhower's staff supervising European reconstruction after the war ended.\n\nIn April 1955, he resigned from the Army to become Adjutant General of the Pennsylvania National Guard. Nevertheless, as an member of the Army Reserve, he was promoted to major general in August.\n\nIn 1961, Biddle became the United States Ambassador to Spain, though he did not speak Spanish fluently; in which he served until shortly before his death.\n\nOn June 16, 1915, Biddle married Mary Lillian Duke (1887–1960), a tobacco heiress who was the daughter of Benjamin Newton Duke. They divorced in 1931 after having two children:\n\n\nHis second wife, whom he married in 1931, was Margaret Thompson Schulze (d. 1956), the only child of mining magnate William Boyce Thompson and recent divorcee of Theodore M. Schultze, a New York banker. Through this marriage he had two stepchildren, (Margaret) Boyce Schulze and Theodore Schulze Jr, as well as a son before their divorce in 1945:\n\n\nHe married as his third wife, in 1946, Margaret Atkinson Loughborough (1915–2013), the former wife of William Ellery Loughborough and had two more children:\n\n\nHe died November 13, 1961, in Washington, D.C. at the Walter Reed Army Hospital. He was interred at Arlington National Cemetery. His cenotaph is at The Woodlands Cemetery in Philadelphia. After Biddle's death, she married, as her fourth husband, Colonel Edwinston Robbins.\n\nBiddle was known for being elegantly dressed. On October 4, 1943, he appeared on the cover of \"Life\" magazine.\nThe one published picture of Biddle without his impeccable suit was when he had to pack in a hurry to escape German bombers in Poland via Romania.\nHe was recognized in 1960 by George Frazier as one of the best dressed men in the US, on a short list with such stars as Fred Astaire. He was noted for his small number of fine custom-made suits and his starched, horizontally-striped Charvet shirts.\n\nHis sister Cordelia Drexel Biddle wrote a book with Kyle Crichton about the family, focusing on her marriage with Angier Buchanan Duke who was the brother of Anthony's first wife. It was made into a play and the 1967 musical film \"The Happiest Millionaire\".\nHe was portrayed by Paul Petersen in the film.\nHis nephew Angier Biddle Duke (1915–1995) also became a diplomat.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41540713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41540713", "title": "Carr, Riggs &amp; Ingram, LLC", "text": "Carr, Riggs &amp; Ingram, LLC\n\nCarr, Riggs & Ingram, LLC is the largest certified public accounting firm headquartered in the Gulf Coast region of the United States. With offices located in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas, Carr, Riggs & Ingram ranks 19th in the top 100 U.S. accounting firms and employs over 1,800 professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "21756494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21756494", "title": "Challenge (economics magazine)", "text": "Challenge (economics magazine)\n\nChallenge: The Magazine of Economic Affairs is a bimonthly magazine covering current affairs in economics. It is published by Routledge and the editor-in-chief is Jeff Madrick (The Cooper Union).\n\nThe magazine was established in 1952 and originally published by the Institute of Economic Affairs (New York University). It ceased publishing in 1967 but was revived in 1973 and published by M. E. Sharpe which was later taken over by Routledge.\n\nThe magazine is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "579193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579193", "title": "Chief technology officer", "text": "Chief technology officer\n\nA chief technology officer (CTO), sometimes known as a chief technical officer or chief technologist, is an executive-level position in a company or other entity whose occupation is focused on scientific and technological issues within an organization.\n\nAfter World War II, large corporations established research laboratories at locations separate from their headquarters. Their goal was to hire scientists and offer them facilities to research on behalf of the company without the burdens of day-to-day office work. \n\nAt that time, the director of the laboratory was a corporate vice president who did not participate in the company’s corporate decisions. Instead, this technical director was the responsible for attracting new scientists, do research, and develop products.\n\nIn the '80s, the role of these research directors changed substantially. Since technology was becoming a substantial part of most products and services, companies needed an operational executive who could understand the product’s technical side and provide advice on ways to improve and develop it.\n\nA chief technology officer (CTO) \"examines the short and long term needs of an organization, and utilizes capital to make investments designed to help the organization reach its objectives... [the CTO] is the highest technology executive position within a company and leads the technology or engineering department\". The role became prominent with the ascent of the information technology (IT) industry, but has since become prevalent in technology-based industries of all types—including computer based technologies (such as game developer, e-commerce, and social networking service) and other/non-computer-focused technology (such as biotech/pharma, defense, and automotive). In non-technical organizations as a corporate officer position, the CTO typically reports directly to the chief information officer (CIO) and is primarily concerned with long-term and \"big picture\" issues (while still having deep technical knowledge of the relevant field). In technology-focused organizations, the CIO and CTO positions can be at the same level, with the CIO focused on the information technology and the CTO focused on the core company and other supporting technologies.\n\nDepending on company structure and hierarchy, there may also be positions such as director of R&D and vice president of engineering whom the CTO interacts with or oversees. The CTO also needs a working familiarity with regulatory (e.g. U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Environmental Protection Agency, Consumer Product Safety Commission, as applicable) and intellectual property (IP) issues (e.g. patents, trade secrets, license contracts), and an ability to interface with legal counsel to incorporate those considerations into strategic planning and inter-company negotiations.\n\nIn many older industries (whose existence may predate IT automation) such as manufacturing, shipping or banking, an executive role of the CTO would often arise out of the process of automating existing activities; in these cases, any CTO-like role would only emerge if and when efforts would be made to develop truly novel technologies (either for facilitating internal operations or for enhancing products/services being provided), perhaps through \"intrapreneuring\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47009549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47009549", "title": "Corporate accelerator", "text": "Corporate accelerator\n\nA corporate accelerator is a specific form of seed accelerator which is sponsored by an established for-profit corporation. Similar to seed accelerators they support early-stage startup companies through mentorship and often capital and office space. In contrast to regular programs, though, corporate accelerators derive their objectives from the sponsoring organization. These objectives can include the wish to stay close to emerging trends or to establish a funnel for corporate venture capital investments.\n\nAccording to Corporate Accelerator DB there are 70+ such programs in existence as of December 2016. Notable companies include Microsoft, Citrix, and Telefónica who were among the first companies to offer such programs in the early 2010s. More recently, corporate accelerators have faced criticism as they might be less effective as regular seed accelerators. For example, the startup could be too focused on solving the problems of the sponsoring firm rather than finding external customers.\n\nCorporate accelerators differ from Business incubators, which usually have a continuous intake, due to their fixed-term, cohort-based organization (similar to seed accelerators) and are distinct to corporate venture capital which is a direct, targeted investment.\n\n"}
{"id": "19260221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19260221", "title": "Data vault modeling", "text": "Data vault modeling\n\nData vault modeling is a database modeling method that is designed to provide long-term historical storage of data coming in from multiple operational systems. It is also a method of looking at historical data that deals with issues such as auditing, tracing of data, loading speed and resilience to change as well as emphasizing the need to trace where all the data in the database came from. This means that every row in a data vault must be accompanied by record source and load date attributes, enabling an auditor to trace values back to the source.\n\nData vault modeling makes no distinction between good and bad data (\"bad\" meaning not conforming to business rules). This is summarized in the statement that a data vault stores \"a single version of the facts\" (also expressed by Dan Linstedt as \"all the data, all of the time\") as opposed to the practice in other data warehouse methods of storing \"a single version of the truth\" where data that does not conform to the definitions is removed or \"cleansed\".\n\nThe modeling method is designed to be resilient to change in the business environment where the data being stored is coming from, by explicitly separating structural information from descriptive attributes. Data vault is designed to enable parallel loading as much as possible, so that very large implementations can scale out without the need for major redesign.\n\nIn data warehouse modeling there are two well-known competing options for modeling the layer where the data are stored. Either you model according to Ralph Kimball, with conformed dimensions and an enterprise data bus, or you model according to Bill Inmon with the database normalized. Both techniques have issues when dealing with changes in the systems feeding the data warehouse. For conformed dimensions you also have to cleanse data (to conform it) and this is undesirable in a number of cases since this inevitably will lose information. Data vault is designed to avoid or minimize the impact of those issues, by moving them to areas of the data warehouse that are outside the historical storage area (cleansing is done in the data marts) and by separating the structural items (business keys and the associations between the business keys) from the descriptive attributes.\n\nDan Linstedt, the creator of the method, describes the resulting database as follows:\nData vault's philosophy is that all data is relevant data, even if it is not in line with established definitions and business rules. If data are not conforming to these definitions and rules then that is a problem for the business, not the data warehouse. The determination of data being \"wrong\" is an interpretation of the data that stems from a particular point of view that may not be valid for everyone, or at every point in time. Therefore the data vault must capture all data and only when reporting or extracting data from the data vault is the data being interpreted.\n\nAnother issue to which data vault is a response is that more and more there is a need for complete auditability and traceability of all the data in the data warehouse. Due to Sarbanes-Oxley requirements in the USA and similar measures in Europe this is a relevant topic for many business intelligence implementations, hence the focus of any data vault implementation is complete traceability and auditability of all information.\n\n\"Data Vault 2.0\" is the new specification, it is an open standard. The new specification contains components which define the implementation best practices, the methodology (SEI/CMMI, Six Sigma, SDLC, etc..), the architecture, and the model. \"Data Vault 2.0\" has a focus on including new components such as Big Data, NoSQL - and also focuses on performance of the existing model. The old specification (documented here for the most part) is highly focused on data vault modeling. It is documented in the book: Building a Scalable Data Warehouse with Data Vault 2.0.\n\nIt is necessary to evolve the specification to include the new components, along with the best practices in order to keep the EDW and BI systems current with the needs and desires of today's businesses.\n\nData vault modeling was originally conceived by Dan Linstedt in 1990 and was released in 2000 as a public domain modeling method. In a series of five articles on The Data Administration Newsletter the basic rules of the Data Vault method are expanded and explained. These contain a general overview, an overview of the components, a discussion about end dates and joins, link tables, and an article on loading practices.\n\nAn alternative (and seldom used) name for the method is \"Common Foundational Integration Modelling Architecture.\"\n\n\"Data Vault 2.0\" has arrived on the scene as of 2013 and brings to the table Big Data, NoSQL, unstructured, semi-structured seamless integration, along with methodology, architecture, and implementation best practices.\n\nAccording to Dan Linstedt, the Data Model is inspired by (or patterned off) a simplistic view of neurons, dendrites, and synapses – where neurons are associated with Hubs and Hub Satellites, Links are dendrites (vectors of information), and other Links are synapses (vectors in the opposite direction). By using a data mining set of algorithms, links can be scored with confidence and strength ratings. They can be created and dropped on the fly in accordance with learning about relationships that currently don't exist. The model can be automatically morphed, adapted, and adjusted as it is used and fed new structures.\n\nAnother view is that a data vault model provides an ontology of the Enterprise in the sense that it describes the terms in the domain of the enterprise (Hubs) and the relationships among them (Links), adding descriptive attributes (Satellites) where necessary.\n\nAnother way to think of a data vault model is as a graph model. The data vault model actually provides a \"graph based\" model with hubs and relationships in a relational database world. In this manner, the developer can use SQL to get at graph based relationships with sub-second responses.\n\nData vault attempts to solve the problem of dealing with change in the environment by separating the business keys (that do not mutate as often, because they uniquely identify a business entity) and the associations between those business keys, from the descriptive attributes of those keys.\n\nThe business keys and their associations are structural attributes, forming the skeleton of the data model. The data vault method has as one of its main axioms that real business keys only change when the business changes and are therefore the most stable elements from which to derive the structure of a historical database. If you use these keys as the backbone of a data warehouse, you can organize the rest of the data around them. This means that choosing the correct keys for the hubs is of prime importance for the stability of your model. The keys are stored in tables with a few constraints on the structure. These key-tables are called hubs.\n\nHubs contain a list of unique business keys with low propensity to change. Hubs also contain a surrogate key for each Hub item and metadata describing the origin of the business key. The descriptive attributes for the information on the Hub (such as the description for the key, possibly in multiple languages) are stored in structures called Satellite tables which will be discussed below.\n\nThe Hub contains at least the following fields: \n\nA hub is not allowed to contain multiple business keys, except when two systems deliver the same business key but with collisions that have different meanings.\n\nHubs should normally have at least one satellite.\n\nThis is an example for a hub-table containing cars, called \"Car\" (H_CAR). The driving key is vehicle identification number.\n\nAssociations or transactions between business keys (relating for instance the hubs for customer and product with each other through the purchase transaction) are modeled using link tables. These tables are basically many-to-many join tables, with some metadata.\n\nLinks can link to other links, to deal with changes in granularity (for instance, adding a new key to a database table would change the grain of the database table). For instance, if you have an association between customer and address, you could add a reference to a link between the hubs for product and transport company. This could be a link called \"Delivery\". Referencing a link in another link is considered a bad practice, because it introduces dependencies between links that make parallel loading more difficult. Since a link to another link is the same as a new link with the hubs from the other link, in these cases creating the links without referencing other links is the preferred solution (see the section on loading practices for more information).\n\nLinks sometimes link hubs to information that is not by itself enough to construct a hub. This occurs when one of the business keys associated by the link is not a real business key. As an example, take an order form with \"order number\" as key, and order lines that are keyed with a semi-random number to make them unique. Let's say, \"unique number\". The latter key is not a real business key, so it is no hub. However, we do need to use it in order to guarantee the correct granularity for the link. In this case, we do not use a hub with surrogate key, but add the business key \"unique number\" itself to the link. This is done only when there is no possibility of ever using the business key for another link or as key for attributes in a satellite. This construct has been called a 'peg-legged link' by Dan Linstedt on his (now defunct) forum.\n\nLinks contain the surrogate keys for the hubs that are linked, their own surrogate key for the link and metadata describing the origin of the association. The descriptive attributes for the information on the association (such as the time, price or amount) are stored in structures called \"satellite tables\" which are discussed below.\n\nThis is an example for a link-table between two hubs for cars (H_CAR) and persons (H_PERSON). The link is called \"Driver\" (L_DRIVER).\n\nThe hubs and links form the structure of the model, but have no temporal attributes and hold no descriptive attributes. These are stored in separate tables called \"satellites\". These consist of metadata linking them to their parent hub or link, metadata describing the origin of the association and attributes, as well as a timeline with start and end dates for the attribute. Where the hubs and links provide the structure of the model, the satellites provide the \"meat\" of the model, the context for the business processes that are captured in hubs and links. These attributes are stored both with regards to the details of the matter as well as the timeline and can range from quite complex (all of the fields describing a clients complete profile) to quite simple (a satellite on a link with only a valid-indicator and a timeline).\n\nUsually the attributes are grouped in satellites by source system. However, descriptive attributes such as size, cost, speed, amount or color can change at different rates, so you can also split these attributes up in different satellites based on their rate of change.\n\nAll the tables contain metadata, minimally describing at least the source system and the date on which this entry became valid, giving a complete historical view of the data as it enters the data warehouse.\n\nThis is an example for a satellite on the drivers-link between the hubs for cars and persons, called \"Driver insurance\" (S_DRIVER_INSURANCE). This satellite contains attributes that are specific to the insurance of the relationship between the car and the person driving it, for instance an indicator whether this is the primary driver, the name of the insurance company for this car and person (could also be a separate hub) and a summary of the number of accidents involving this combination of vehicle and driver. Also included is a reference to a lookup- or reference table called R_RISK_CATEGORY containing the codes for the risk category in which this relationship is deemed to fall.\n\n(*) at least one attribute is mandatory.\n(**) sequence number becomes mandatory if it is needed to enforce uniqueness for multiple valid satellites on the same hub or link.\n\nReference tables are a normal part of a healthy data vault model. They are there to prevent redundant storage of simple reference data that is referenced a lot. More formally, Dan Linstedt defines reference data as follows:\n\"Any information deemed necessary to resolve descriptions from codes, or to translate keys in to (sic) a consistent manner. Many of these fields are \"descriptive\" in nature and describe a specific state of the other more important information. As such, reference data lives in separate tables from the raw Data Vault tables\".\n\nReference tables are referenced from Satellites, but never bound with physical foreign keys. There is no prescribed structure for reference tables: use what works best in your specific case, ranging from simple lookup tables to small data vaults or even stars. They can be historical or have no history, but it is recommended that you stick to the natural keys and not create surrogate keys in that case. Normally, data vaults have a lot of reference tables, just like any other Data Warehouse.\n\nThis is an example of a reference table with risk categories for drivers of vehicles. It can be referenced from any satellite in the data vault. For now we reference it from satellite S_DRIVER_INSURANCE. The reference table is R_RISK_CATEGORY.\n\n(*) at least one attribute is mandatory.\n\nThe ETL for updating a data vault model is fairly straightforward (see Data Vault Series 5 – Loading Practices). First you have to load all the hubs, creating surrogate IDs for any new business keys. Having done that, you can now resolve all business keys to surrogate ID's if you query the hub. The second step is to resolve the links between hubs and create surrogate IDs for any new associations. At the same time, you can also create all satellites that are attached to hubs, since you can resolve the key to a surrogate ID. Once you have created all the new links with their surrogate keys, you can add the satellites to all the links.\n\nSince the hubs are not joined to each other except through links, you can load all the hubs in parallel. Since links are not attached directly to each other, you can load all the links in parallel as well. Since satellites can be attached only to hubs and links, you can also load these in parallel.\n\nThe ETL is quite straightforward and lends itself to easy automation or templating. Problems occur only with links relating to other links, because resolving the business keys in the link only leads to another link that has to be resolved as well. Due to the equivalence of this situation with a link to multiple hubs, this difficulty can be avoided by remodeling such cases and this is in fact the recommended practice.\n\nData are never deleted from the data vault, unless you have a technical error while loading data.\n\nThe data vault modelled layer is normally used to store data. It is not optimized for query performance, nor is it easy to query by the well-known query-tools such as Cognos, SAP Business Objects, Pentaho et al. Since these end-user computing tools expect or prefer their data to be contained in a dimensional model, a conversion is usually necessary.\n\nFor this purpose, the hubs and related satellites on those hubs can be considered as dimensions and the links and related satellites on those links can be viewed as fact tables in a dimensional model. This enables you to quickly prototype a dimensional model out of a data vault model using views. For performance reasons the dimensional model will usually be implemented in relational tables, after approval.\n\nNote that while it is relatively straightforward to move data from a data vault model to a (cleansed) dimensional model, the reverse is not as easy, given the denormalized nature of the dimensional model's fact tables, fundamentally different to the third normal form of the data vault.\n\nThe data vault methodology is based on SEI/CMMI Level 5 best practices. It includes multiple components of CMMI Level 5, and combines them with best practices from Six Sigma, TQM, and SDLC. Particularly, it is focused on Scott Ambler's agile methodology for build out and deployment. Data vault projects have a short, scope-controlled release cycle and should consist of a production release every 2 to 3 weeks.\n\nTeams using the data vault methodology should readily adapt to the repeatable, consistent, and measurable projects that are expected at CMMI Level 5. Data that flow through the EDW data vault system will begin to follow the TQM (total quality management) life-cycle that has long been missing from BI (business intelligence) projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5501435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5501435", "title": "David Milwyn Duggan", "text": "David Milwyn Duggan\n\nDavid Milwyn Duggan (May 5, 1879 – May 4, 1942) was a Welsh-born Canadian politician who was the Mayor of Edmonton from 1920 to 1923, a member of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta, and a leader of the Conservative Party of Alberta.\n\nDavid Duggan was born in Builth, Wales May 5, 1879. In 1893 he entered the dry goods business, in which he would remain until leaving Wales. In 1902 he married Marian Price; the pair would have four children.\n\nDuggan immigrated to Canada in 1905 to farm near Nanton, Alberta. He moved to Edmonton in 1912 and founded Duggan Investments, Ltd., a firm handling bonds and investments.\n\nDuggan ran for mayor in the 1920 Edmonton election when, despite lacking any previous experience, he defeated incumbent Joseph Clarke. Clarke had become unpopular with the city's Board of Trade and both of its newspapers owing to what they perceived as anti-business policies, and these groups supported Duggan aggressively. While Duggan was mayor, Alberta's first radio station, CJCA, began operations, and Duggan himself concluded its inaugural broadcast by boasting \"Edmonton leads the way in all Alberta. Calgary and others follow. That is all. Goodnight.\" He was re-elected in 1921 and 1922, but did not seek re-election after his last term expired.\n\nHis attentions turned to provincial politics, and he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta in the 1926 election as a Conservative in the riding of Edmonton. Duggan succeeded Alexander McGillivray as leader in 1930, and led the party into that year's election. In this election, the Conservatives picked up a seat in Edmonton (taking three of the city's six seats), but were shut out of seats outside of Edmonton and Calgary, as they had been in 1926. Moreover, they lost ground to the rival Alberta Liberal Party in the race to form the official opposition to the governing United Farmers of Alberta. Duggan easily retained his own seat.\n\nThe situation worsened for the Conservatives in the 1935 election, when the Social Credit Party of Alberta swept the province, reducing the Conservatives to two members, Duggan and Calgary MLA John Irwin (the other parties fared no better - the Liberals lost six of the eleven seats they had won in 1930, while the UFA, owners of a majority government before the writ was dropped, were eliminated from the legislature completely). In response to this catastrophe, Duggan's Conservatives formed an alliance with the Liberals, the Unity League, whereby candidates of the parties would not run against each other, these were identified as Independents on election results as the Unity League did not have official party status. In the 1940 election, there were nineteen independents elected, including Duggan.\n\nDuring his last full term in the legislature, Duggan was involved in the Bankers' Toadies incident. He brought to the house's attention a government-sponsored leaflet that named him and eight other men (William Antrobus Griesbach among them) as \"Banker's Toadies\" and urged readers to \"exterminate them\". This incident saw two men, including Social Credit MLA Joseph Unwin, prosecuted for criminal libel and counselling murder.\n\nDuggan was active with the Baptist Church, the Rotary Club, the Edmonton Chamber of Commerce, and the Red Cross. He died May 4, 1942 while still an MLA. He was buried in Mt. Pleasant Cemetery in Edmonton.\n\nIn 2004, Edmonton City Council passed a motion directing its Names Advisory Committee to strike a subcommittee whose purpose would be, among other things, to honour Duggan by naming a city feature after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "3155871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3155871", "title": "Event management", "text": "Event management\n\nThe process of planning and coordinating the event is usually referred to as event planning and which can include budgeting, scheduling, site selection, acquiring necessary permits, coordinating transportation and parking, arranging for speakers or entertainers, arranging decor, event security, catering, coordinating with third party vendors, and emergency plans. Each event is different in its nature so process of planning & execution of each event differs on basis of type of event. \n\nThe events industry now includes events of all sizes from the Olympics down to business breakfast meetings. Many industries, charitable organizations, and interest groups hold events in order to market themselves, build business relationships, raise money, or celebrate achievement.\n\nEvent management might be a tool for strategic marketing and communication, used by companies of every size. Companies can benefit from promotional events as a way to communicate with current and potential customers. For instance, these advertising-focused events can occur as press conferences, promotional events, or product launches.\n\nEvent managers may also use traditional news media in order to target their audience, hoping to generate media coverage which will reach thousands or millions of people. They can also invite their audience to their events and reach them at the actual event.\n\nThe event manager is the person who plans and executes the event, taking responsibility for the creative, technical, and logistical elements. This includes overall event design, brand building, marketing and communication strategy, audio-visual production, script writing, logistics, budgeting, negotiation, and client service.\n\nAn event venue may be an onsite or offsite location. The event manager is usually not responsible for operations at rented event or entertainment venues, but will monitor all aspects of the event on site. Some of the tasks listed in the introduction may pass to the venue, but usually at a cost.\n\nCorporate event managers book event venues to host corporate meetings, conferences, networking events, trade shows, product launches, team building retreats or training sessions in a more tailored environment.\n\nSustainable event management (also known as event greening) is the process used to produce an event with particular concern for environmental, economic, and social issues. Sustainability in event management incorporates socially and environmentally responsible decision making into the planning, organization and implementation of, and participation in, an event. It involves including sustainable development principles and practices in all levels of event organization, and aims to ensure that an event is hosted responsibly. It represents the total package of interventions at an event, and needs to be done in an integrated manner. Event greening should start at the inception of the project, and should involve all the key role players, such as clients, organizers, venues, sub-contractors, and suppliers.\n\nEvent management software companies provide event planners with software tools to handle many common activities such as delegate registration, hotel booking, travel booking, or allocation of exhibition floorspace.\n\nA recent trend in event technology is the use of mobile apps for events. Event mobile apps have a range of uses. They can be used to hold relatively static information such as the agenda, speaker biographies, and general FAQs. They can also encourage audience participation and engagement through interactive tools such as live voting/polling, submitting questions to speakers during Q&A, or building live interactive \"word clouds\". Mobile event apps can also be used by event organisers as a means of communication. Organisers can communicate with participants through the use of alerts, notifications, and push messages. They can also be used to collect feedback from the participants through the use of surveys in app. Going a step further, some mobile event apps can also help participants to engage with each other, with sponsors, and with the organisers with built-in networking functionality.\n\nThere are an increasing number of universities which offer courses in event management, including diplomas and graduate degrees. In addition to these academic courses, there are many associations and societies that provide courses on the various aspects of the industry. Study includes organizational skills, technical knowledge, public relations, marketing, advertising, catering, logistics, decor, glamor identity, human relations, study of law and licenses, risk management, budgeting, and the study of allied industries like television, other media, and several other areas. Certification can be acquired from various sources to obtain designations such as \n\n\n"}
{"id": "27753528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27753528", "title": "Executive MBA Council", "text": "Executive MBA Council\n\nThe Executive MBA Council is an educational accreditation council formed in 1981 to accredit schools of business offering EMBA degrees worldwide. The council was formed with the assistance of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB International).\n\nThe council's stated mission is to promote the advancement of executive MBA worldwide through its partnerships, conference, and research and outreach activities. The EMBA Council is governed by a Board of Trustees, which consists mainly of the Deans or Program Directors of its business school members and sets goals on council initiatives.\n\nThe council is headquartered in Beckman Hall, Orange, California, United States.\n\nAs of May 2010, the Executive MBA Council has accredited 237 full business schools on six continents and 18 corporate members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12046834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12046834", "title": "Export hay", "text": "Export hay\n\nExport hay is hay that is produced for export markets. In Australia, hay needs to meet a number of quality standards before it can be exported. Because hay in standard round and large square bales is not dense enough to be economically exported to overseas markets, export hay is normally processed to increase the density of the product and improve its suitability for containerization. This form of processing was pioneered by ACX Pacific Northwest, and is often referred to as double compression. This process allows forage and roughage exporters to inspect and package the hay prior to shipping. \n\nIn Australia, Oaten hay is the most common type of export hay. Alfalfa (also known as lucerne in Australia) is also grown for export hay, often under irrigation, and is the most common type of export hay in the U.S.\n"}
{"id": "4835417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4835417", "title": "Free price system", "text": "Free price system\n\nA free price system or free price mechanism (informally called \"the price system\" or \"the price mechanism\") is a mechanism of resource allocation that relies upon monetary prices set by the interchange of supply and demand. The resulting prices serve as \"signals\" communicated between producers and consumers which serve to guide the production and distribution of resources. Through the free price system, supplies are rationed, income is distributed, and resources are allocated. \n\nA free price system contrasts with a fixed price system where prices are administered by government in a controlled market. The price system, whether \"free\" or controlled, contrasts with physical and non-monetary economic planning.\n\nRather than prices being set by the state, as in a command economy with a \"fixed price system\", prices are determined in a decentralized fashion by trades that occur as a result of sellers' \"asking prices\" matching buyers' \"bid prices\" as a result of subjective value judgement in a market economy. Since resources of consumers are limited at any given time, consumers are relegated to satisfying wants in a descending hierarchy and bidding prices relative to the urgency of a variety of wants. This information on relative values is communicated, through \"price signals\", to producers whose resources are also limited. In turn, relative prices for the productive services are established. The interchange of these two sets of prices establish market value, and serve to guide the rationing of resources, distributing income, and allocating resources.\n\nThose goods which command the highest prices (when summed among all individuals) provide an incentive for businesses to provide these goods in a corresponding descending hierarchy of priority. However, the ordering of this hierarchy of wants is not constant. Consumer preferences change. When consumer preferences for a good increase, then bidding pressure raises the price for a particular good as it moves to a higher position in the hierarchy. As a result of higher prices for this good, more productive forces are applied to satisfying the demand driven by the opportunity for higher profits in satisfying this new consumer preference. In other words, the high price sends a \"price signal\" to producers. This causes producers to increase supply, either by the same firms increasing production or new businesses coming into the market, which eventually lowers the price and the profit incentive to increase supplies. Hence, the now lower price provides a price signal to producers to decrease production and, as a result, a surplus is prevented. Since resources are scarce (including labor and capital), supplies of other goods will be diminished as the productive resources are taken from other areas of production to be applied toward increasing output of the good that has risen in the hierarchy of consumer preferences. Also, as resources become more scarce the price increases, which signals to consumers to reduce consumption thereby ensuring that the quantity demanded does not exceed the quantity supplied. It is in this way that the free price system persuades consumers to ration dwindling resources. Hence, supply and demand affect price, while at the same time price affects supply and demand. If prices remain high because increases in supply cannot keep pace with demand, then this also signals other business to provide substitute goods in order to take advantage of profit opportunities.\n\nIndividual employments and incomes are also guided by the price system. Employment will move toward those goods and services that consumers value and away from those with declining importance to consumers as a result of changes in prices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1226483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1226483", "title": "General union", "text": "General union\n\nA general union is a trade union (called \"labor union\" in American English) which represents workers from all industries and companies, rather than just one organisation or a particular sector, as in a craft union or industrial union. A general union differs from a union federation or trades council in that its members are individuals, not unions. The creation of general unions, from the early nineteenth century in the United Kingdom and somewhat later elsewhere, occurred around the same time as efforts began to unionise workers in new industries, in particular those where employment could be irregular.\n\nProponents of general unions claim that their broader range of members allows more opportunities for solidarity action and better coordination in general strikes and the like. Detractors claim that the broader remit means they tend to be more bureaucratic and respond less effectively to events in a single industry.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, general unions include the GMB and the Transport and General Workers' Union. In Australia a good example of a general union is the Australian Workers' Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "14938023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14938023", "title": "George O. May", "text": "George O. May\n\nGeorge Oliver May (May 22, 1875 – May 25, 1961) was a British American accountant. He led a joint study by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the New York Stock Exchange that was impetus for the stock exchange requiring its listed firms to undergo independent annual audits. The study also is credited for causing the new Securities and Exchange Commission to allow the accounting profession to define accounting principles, rather than taking on that responsibility itself.\n\nHe rose to senior partnership in Price Waterhouse & Co. and wrote more than 100 articles in professional journals.\n\nIn 1941 he was elected as a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.\nIn 1944, he received the AICPA's Gold Medal Award.\nIn 1950, he was named with two others to the Accounting Hall of Fame, in its first year.\n\nLynn Turner, chief accountant of the SEC credits George O. May with contributing to the development of stronger authorities on accounting, noting in 1952 that May commented \"'accounting income was on its way to becoming a political, not an economic concept'\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2558122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2558122", "title": "Hospodářské noviny", "text": "Hospodářské noviny\n\nHospodářské noviny (English: \"Economic Newspaper\") is a daily newspaper in Prague, the Czech Republic.\n\n\"Hospodářské noviny\" was first published on 21 May 1990. The paper is headquartered in Prague and has a specific focus on economics. The founder and publisher is a joint company, Economia which is owned by Czech tycoon Zdeněk Bakala since 2008. It is published in broadsheet format.\n\nThe circulation of \"Hospodářské noviny\" was 75,000 copies in 2002. In October 2003 the paper had a circulation of 74,195 copies. The circulation of the paper was 66,024 copies in December 2004. It was 67,000 copies for 2004 as a whole.\n\nThe 2007 circulation of the paper was 58,783 copies. The circulation of \"Hospodářské noviny\" was 57,390 copies in 2008 and 54,285 copies in 2009. It was 44,225 copies in 2010 and 41,933 copies in 2011. As of September 2013 it was the 9th most widely circulated newspaper in the country with the circulation of 43,000 copies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28234090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28234090", "title": "Hotel Gerard", "text": "Hotel Gerard\n\nThe Hotel Gerard, also known as the Hotel Langwell and Hotel 1-2-3, is a historic hotel located in New York, New York. The building was designed by George Keister and built in 1893. It is a 13-story, \"U\"-shaped, salmon colored brick and limestone building with German Renaissance style design elements. The front facade features bowed pairs of bay windows from the third to the sixth floor and the building is topped by steeply pointed front gables and a highly decorated dormer. It was originally built as an apartment hotel.\n\nThe hotel is located at 123 West 44th Street, next door to the Belasco Theatre.\n\nIt was added to the National Register of Historic Places on February 10, 1983.\n\n"}
{"id": "57825741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57825741", "title": "ISO 9846", "text": "ISO 9846\n\nISO 9846, \"Solar energy -- Calibration of a pyranometer using a pyrheliometer,\" is the ISO standard for the calibration of a pyranometer using a pyrheliometer.\n"}
{"id": "45322022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45322022", "title": "Independent Industrialists and Businessmen Association", "text": "Independent Industrialists and Businessmen Association\n\nIndependent Industrialists and Businessmen Association (, MÜSİAD), is a non-governmental organization .According to 2015 records, MÜSİAD has 85 contact points in Turkey, 159 contact points in 63 different countries, and more than 11,000 members. The association holds an Quality Certificate.\n\nMÜSİAD organizes an annual defense industry fair called \"High-Tech Port by MÜSİAD\". The second fair was held between 6–8 October 2015 in Doha, Qatar, and promoted billions of dollars of trade between Turkey and Qatar. MÜSİAD also supports Turkey’s Housing Developers and Investors Organization (KONUTDER) exhibitions to increase real estate trade ties to investors from the Gulf.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "742521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=742521", "title": "Initiative for Software Choice", "text": "Initiative for Software Choice\n\nThe Initiative for Software Choice (ISC) is a group of companies founded in May 2002. The ISC website characterizes its membership as \"committed to advancing the concept that multiple competing software markets should be allowed to develop and flourish unimpeded by government preference or mandate\".\n\nAccording to many Free Software advocates, Microsoft founded ISC in reaction to the call for the adoption of Free Software by politicians in many countries.\n\nThe Computing Technology Industry Association (CompTIA) chairs the Initiative.\n\n"}
{"id": "54977651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54977651", "title": "Innocence Lost (TV series)", "text": "Innocence Lost (TV series)\n\nInnocence Lost () is a Chinese lifestyle documentary show about child labour which produced by Mediacorp Channel U from Singapore. It is hosted an rotating persons, which presented by Diana Ser, Joanna Dong and Danny Yeo on difference episodes. Lifestyle documentary show are introduce the employment of children in any work, the child from poverty family, who have lose their adolescence, interfered their ability to attend school in regularly, also dangerous and harmful to physically, mentally, socially and morally.\n\nEvery episodes duration taken 46 minutes to telecast, the first season have 10 episodes was released on 19 April 2016, and the second season have 8 episodes was released on 7 February 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "45000861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45000861", "title": "Isak Andic", "text": "Isak Andic\n\nIsak Andic (born 1953) is a Spanish businessman, the founder and largest shareholder in the clothing retail chain Mango.\n\nBorn to a Sephardic Jewish family in Istanbul, Andic's family emigrated from Turkey to Barcelona, Spain in 1969 where he and his brother Nahman began selling hand-embroidered T-shirts and clogs. They opened shops in Barcelona and Madrid, first selling their own brand (Isak jeans) and then stocking other brands. In 1984, he joined with fellow entrepreneur Enric Cusí and his brother and re-denominated all their stores under the name Mango. Andic chose the name \"Mango\" after tasting the fruit on a trip to the Philippines and for the fact that the word is pronounced the same in every language.\n\nIn 2006, Andic was appointed the director of Banco Sabadell and in 2012, he became its single largest shareholder with a 7% ownership interest. According to Forbes, Andic has a net worth of $4.8 billion, as of January 2015. Mango has 2,400 stores in 107 countries.\n\nAndic is divorced from Neus Raig Tarragó with whom he has three children: (born 1981) who was named his successor in 2012; Judith Andic (born 1984), who also works for Mango; and Sarah Andic (born 1997). Andic lives in Barcelona.\n"}
{"id": "4610638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4610638", "title": "John Gokongwei", "text": "John Gokongwei\n\nJohn L. Gokongwei Jr. (; is a Filipino business magnate, investor, and philanthropist. He has holdings in telecommunications, financial services, petrochemicals, power generation, aviation, food, beverage, and livestock farming.\n\nJohn Gokongwei Jr. was born in China to a Filipino-Chinese father who was a scion of a wealthy Cebu-based family, with ancestral ties to China's Fujian province. His great grandfather was Pedro Gotiaco, a young peddler from China who became one of the Philippine's most prominent Filipino-Chinese. The family fortune was lost when his affluent father died. John was 13 years old at this time. He initially supported his family by peddling items along the streets of Cebu from his bicycle. From the age of 17 to 19, he traded using a wooden boat, taking items to Dalahican, Lucena by sea, and then to Manila by truck.\n\nAfter the Second World War, he started his own company called Amasia Trading, which imported flour, onions, fruits, used clothing, old newspapers and magazines from the United States. During this time, he courted a young girl, Elizabeth, who would later become his wife. In the early 1950s, along with his brothers and sisters who returned from China, he started to import cigarettes and whiskey too.\n\nIn 1957, seeing that trading would always have low margins and would always be dependent on government policies, the family concern entered the era of manufacturing. With a loan of 500 thousand pesos from Albino Sycip, then chairman of China Bank, and DK Chiong, he started a corn milling plant producing glucose and corn starch. The company was named Universal Corn Products and later expanded into Universal Robina Corporation. San Miguel Corporation was a big customer of theirs.\n\nIn 1961, as his company started to launch brands such as Blend 45 (an instant coffee brand, to compete with Nestle's Nescafe), John returned to school to study and obtain an MBA at the De La Salle University. A decade later, he underwent a 14-week advanced management program at Harvard.\n\nHe is the chairman of JG Summit Holdings, one of the largest conglomerates in the Philippines. In 2010, his company signed a $3 billion order with Airbus for re-fleeting of his airline, Cebu Pacific Air. From 2003 his telecom company Digital Telecommunications Philippines spent nearly $800 million for its mobile carrier, Sun Cellular which is the 3rd largest mobile operator in the Philippines at that time before selling to the PLDT group for $1.7 billion. He attempted a $1 billion takeover of United Industrial Corporation Ltd (UIC), a property giant from Singapore of which he owned in excess of 30%. UIC controls Singapore Land, one of the biggest property landlords in Singapore.\n\nIn 2013, his company bought the stake of San Miguel Corporation in MERALCO, the largest power distributor in the country, for close to $1.8 billion.\n\nGokongwei also owns Universal Robina Corporation, one of the largest manufacturer of snacks in Southeast Asia. In July 2014, URC acquired Griffin's Foods from Pacific Equity Partners, a New Zealand food company for $609 million.\n\nHe also controls Robinsons Land, one of the biggest property developers in the Philippines, which also operates a chain of malls. The Gokongwei Family controls over $20 billion of combined market capitalization for all the companies they own.\n\nIn February 2008, Forbes Asia magazine’s first Heroes of Philanthropy list included 4 Filipinos – Jaime Zobel de Ayala, John Gokongwei, Ramón del Rosario Jr., and Óscar López.The list is composed of 4 philanthropists each from 13 selected countries and territories in Asia.\n\nOn August 29, 2007, at the Ateneo de Manila University, Gokongwei’s biography, \"John L. Gokongwei Jr.: The Path of Entrepreneurship\", by the University’s Dr. Marites A. Khanser, was launched, and it narrated the \"riches-to-rags-to-riches\" story of the tai-pan. Gokongwei stated that entrepreneurship is a way out of poverty. Khanser's book also enumerated the Nine Rules of business success that Gokongwei followed since he was still a young businessman. In 2002 Gokongwei donated P200-million to the undergraduate school of management. He also gave donations to University of San Carlos, Xavier School, De La Salle University, Sacred Heart School and Immaculate Conception Academy.\n\nHe is married to Elizabeth Yu, and has six children (1 son and 5 daughters) - Lisa, Robina, Lance, Faith, Hope and Marcia. All his children play an active role in the Gokongwei empire and companies owned by JG Holdings. His only son, Lance Gokongwei, is now in charge of the Gokongwei Empire, serving as president and CEO while John serves as the Chairman Emeritus.\n\nJohn Gokongwei and fellow businessman Andrew Gotianun are distant cousins. Gokongwei's great-grandfather was a half brother of Gotianun's grandfather.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33162429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33162429", "title": "Jose Ignacio Sanchez Galan", "text": "Jose Ignacio Sanchez Galan\n\nJosé Ignacio Sánchez Galán (born 1950) is a Spanish businessman. He is currently Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Iberdrola, a multinational group present in dozens of countries worldwide and including the likes of ScottishPower in the United Kingdom, Avangrid in USA, Elektro Holding in Brazil and Iberdrola Mexico.\n\nJosé Ignacio Galán was born in 1950 in Salamanca, Spain. As a young man, he moved to Madrid to study industrial engineering at the ICAI School of Engineering attached to Comillas Pontifical University.\n\nHe also graduated in Business Administration from the ICADE Business School and in Business Administration and Foreign Trade from the EOI Business School. He speaks English, French, Italian and Portuguese and is married with four children.\n\nHis career got under way in 1972 at Sociedad Española del Acumulador Tudor, where he held various executive posts and oversaw the company's international expansion.\n\nIn the early 1990s, he took the helm at Industria de Turbopropulsores (ITP) from its inception. Between 1993 and 1995 he was chairman of Eurojet, a European consortium that developed and manufactured the Eurojet 200 powerplants fitted to the Eurofighter. He then went on to serve as chief executive at Airtel Móvil.\n\nIn 2001, he was appointed the executive vice-chairman and chief executive of Iberdrola and in 2006 he earned the position of executive chairman at the company.\n\nHe is a visiting lecturer at the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow and has also given lectures at the Industrial Engineering College attached to Comillas Pontifical University in Madrid. In 2012, he was appointed chairman of the Social Council of the University of Salamanca.\n\nJosé Ignacio Galán chairs the Electricity Cluster at the World Economic Forum (Davos), and is on the Steering Committee of the European Round Table of Industrialists and of the group that brings together Europe’s leading electric utilities.\n\nHe has been bestowed numerous awards and accolades over the course of his career. In 2011, he received an honorary degree from the University of Edinburgh and from the University of Salamanca, on account of his “\"proven ability to bring about change and innovate and his future vision”\", while in 2013 he was handed an honorary degree in science from the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow.\n\nFor three years running, he was named “Best CEO in Investor Relations” by IR Magazine (2003-2005). The award is based on opinions gathered from stock market analysts and investment fund managers. He was also named “Best CEO of the Year” in 2006 at the Platts Global Energy Awards.\n\nIn 2008, he was crowned “Business Leader of the Year” by the Spain-U.S. Chamber of Commerce and that same year he also received the “International Economy Award” from the Cristóbal Gabarrón Foundation. José Ignacio Galán has also been named Council of Bilbao by the Bilbao Chamber of Commerce and obtained the 2009 Gold Medal from the Province of Salamanca.\n\nIn 2011, he was handed the Lagun Onari award by the Basque Government, which is given to prominent non-Basque individuals in recognition of their efforts to promote Basque history and culture and improve the region’s economy.\n\nIn 2014, he received the FIRST Award for Responsible Capitalism and that very same year Queen Elizabeth II of England bestowed on him the honorary title of Commander of the Order of the British Empire.\n\nJosé Ignacio Galán chairs the Electricity Cluster at the World Economic Forum (Davos) which he previously co-chaired with Stephen Bolze (former CEO, GE Power), and sits on the Board and Steering Committee of the European Round Table of Industrialists and of the group that brings together Europe’s leading electric utilities.\n\nIn 2016, he received his tenth Best Chief Executive Officer award in European electric utilities, which is issued by the Institutional Investor Research Group. \n\nAs Iberdrola's chairman and chief executive officer, José Ignacio Galán obtained total remuneration of 6.17 million euros in 2015, plus shares valued at 3.2 million euros. At Iberdrola's 2016 General Meeting of Shareholders (held on 8 April), the advisory vote on the \"Annual Report on the Remuneration of Board Members\" revealed support of 97.84% from shareholders present at the meeting, thus making Mr. Galán Spain’s fifth best paid executive in 2015.\n\n1 CORPORATE, IBERDROLA. “Presidente - Iberdrola”. \"www.iberdrola.com\". Viewed on 2016-11-05.\n\n2 ATTEST. “ITP. Manufacturer of turbines and aeronautical engines”. \"www.itp.es\". Viewed on 2016-11-05.\n\n3 “Iberdrola apuesta por las renovables”. \"El Periódico Extremadura\". Viewed on 2016-11-05.\n\n4 Presidente del Consejo Social de la USAL, EuropaPress, 31/05/2012.\n\n5 Doctor Honoris Causa por la USAL, Universidad de Salamanca, 2/12/2011.\n\n6 Ignacio Galán, doctor honoris causa por su visión de futuro y asunción de riesgos, El Mundo, 2/12/2011.\n\n7 Ignacio Galán e Iberdrola reciben en Nueva York los galardones al Máximo Ejecutivo del Año y a la Compañía Energética del Año de Platts, El Economista, 1/12/2006.\n\n8 Ignacio Galán, Líder Empresarial del Año, El Mundo, 12/06/2008.\n\n9 Premio Internacional Fundación Cristóbal Gabarrón de Economía, Energía Diario, 10/10/2008.\n\n10 El presidente de Iberdrola recibe en Salamanca la medalla de oro de la provincia, RTVCYL, 21/09/2009.\n\n11 El Gobierno vasco concede la distinción Lagun Onari a Ignacio Galán, B.O.P.V., 18/10/2011.\n\n12 “Galán, condecorado como Comendador Honorario de la Orden del Imperio Británico”, \"europapress.es\". 2014-05-22. Viewed on 2016-11-07.\n\n13 Mejor Primer Ejecutivo de las eléctricas europeas 2015, Institutional Investor, 2015.\n\n14 Ignacio Galán mejor CEO de las utilities europeas, Lainformacion.com, 3/11/2016.\n\n15 EL PAÍS newspaper, 30 March 2012.\n"}
{"id": "18657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18657", "title": "Labour law", "text": "Labour law\n\nLabour law (also known as labor law or employment law) mediates the relationship between workers, employing entities, trade unions and the government. Collective labour law relates to the tripartite relationship between employee, employer and union. Individual labour law concerns employees' rights at work and through the contract for work. are social norms (in some cases also technical standards) for the minimum socially acceptable conditions under which employees or contractors are allowed to work. Government agencies (such as the former US Employment Standards Administration) enforce labour law (legislative, regulatory, or judicial).\n\nLabour law arose in parallel with the Industrial Revolution as the relationship between worker and employer changed from small-scale production studios to large-scale factories. Workers sought better conditions and the right to join (or avoid joining) a labour union, while employers sought a more predictable, flexible and less costly workforce. The state of labour law at any one time is therefore both the product of, and a component of struggles between various social forces.\n\nAs England was the first country to industrialise, it was also the first to face the often appalling consequences of industrial revolution in a less regulated economic framework. Over the course of the late 18th and early to mid-19th century the foundation for modern labour law was slowly laid, as some of the more egregious aspects of working conditions were steadily ameliorated through legislation. This was largely achieved through the concerted pressure from social reformers, notably Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 7th Earl of Shaftesbury, and others.\n\nA serious outbreak of fever in 1784 in cotton mills near Manchester drew widespread public opinion against the use of children in dangerous conditions. A local inquiry, presided over by Dr Thomas Percival, was instituted by the justices of the peace for Lancashire, and the resulting report recommended the limitation of children's working hours. In 1802, the first major piece of labour legislation was passed − the Health and Morals of Apprentices Act. This was the first, albeit modest, step towards the protection of labour. The act limited working hours to twelve a day and abolished night work. It required the provision of a basic level of education for all apprentices, as well as adequate sleeping accommodation and clothing.\n\nThe rapid industrialisation of manufacturing at the turn of the 19th century led to a rapid increase in child employment, and public opinion was steadily made aware of the terrible conditions these children were forced to endure. The Factory Act of 1819 was the outcome of the efforts of the industrialist Robert Owen and prohibited child labour under nine years of age and limited the working day to twelve. A great milestone in labour law was reached with the Factory Act of 1833, which limited the employment of children under eighteen years of age, prohibited all night work and, crucially, provided for inspectors to enforce the law. Pivotal in the campaigning for and the securing of this legislation were Michael Sadler and the Earl of Shaftesbury. This act was an important step forward, in that it mandated skilled inspection of workplaces and a rigorous enforcement of the law by an independent governmental body.\n\nA lengthy campaign to limit the working day to ten hours was led by Shaftesbury, and included support from the Anglican Church. Many committees were formed in support of the cause and some previously established groups lent their support as well. The campaign finally led to the passage of the Factory Act of 1847, which restricted the working hours of women and children in British factories to effectively 10 hours per day.\n\nThese early efforts were principally aimed at limiting child labour. From the mid-19th century, attention was first paid to the plight of working conditions for the workforce in general. In 1850, systematic reporting of fatal accidents was made compulsory, and basic safeguards for health, life and limb in the mines were put in place from 1855. Further regulations, relating to ventilation, fencing of disused shafts, signalling standards, and proper gauges and valves for steam-boilers and related machinery were also set down.\n\nA series of further Acts, in 1860 and 1872 extended the legal provisions and strengthened safety provisions. Steady development of the coal industry, increasing association among miners, and increased scientific knowledge paved the way for the Coal Mines Act of 1872, which extended the legislation to similar industries. The same Act included the first comprehensive code of regulation to govern legal safeguards for health, life and limb. The presence of a more certified and competent management and increased levels of inspection were also provided for.\n\nBy the end of the century, a comprehensive set of regulations was in place in England that affected all industries. A similar system (with certain national differences) was implemented in other industrializing countries in the latter part of the 19th century and the early 20th century.\n\nThe basic feature of labour law in almost every country is that the rights and obligations of the worker and the employer are mediated through a contract of employment between the two. This has been the case since the collapse of feudalism. Many contract terms and conditions are covered by legislation or common law. In the US for example, the majority of state laws allow for employment to be \"at will\", meaning the employer can terminate an employee from a position for any reason, so long as the reason is not explicitly prohibited, and, conversely, an employee may quit at any time, for any reason (or for no reason), and is not required to give notice.\n\nOne example of employment terms in many countries is the duty to provide written particulars of employment with the \"essentialia negotii\" (Latin for \"essential terms\") to an employee. This aims to allow the employee to know concretely what to expect and what is expected. It covers items including compensation, holiday and illness rights, notice in the event of dismissal and job description.\n\nThe contract is subject to various legal provisions. An employer may not legally offer a contract that pays the worker less than a minimum wage. An employee may not agree to a contract that allows an employer to dismiss them for illegal reasons.\n\nMany jurisdictions define the minimum amount that a worker can be paid per hour. Algeria, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Greece, Hungary, India, Ireland, Japan,South Korea, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Paraguay, Portugal, Poland, Romania, Spain,Taiwan, the United Kingdom, the United States, Vietnam, Germany (in 2015) and others have laws of this kind. The minimum wage is set usually higher than the lowest wage as determined by the forces of supply and demand in a free market and therefore acts as a price floor. Each country sets its own minimum wage laws and regulations, and while a majority of industrialized countries has a minimum wage, many developing countries do not.\n\nMinimum wages are regulated and stipulated in some countries that lack explicit laws. In Sweden minimum wages are negotiated between the labour market parties (unions and employer organizations) through collective agreements that also cover non-union workers at workplaces with collective agreements. At workplaces without collective agreements there exist no minimum wages. Non-organized employers can sign substitute agreements directly with trade unions but far from all do. The Swedish case illustrates that in countries without statutory regulation will part of the labour market do not have regulated minimum wages, as self-regulation only applies to workplaces and employees covered by collective agreements (in Sweden about 90 per cent of employees).\n\nNational minimum wage laws were first introduced in the United States in 1938, Brazil in 1940 India in 1948, France in 1950 and in the United Kingdom in 1998. In the European Union, 18 out of 28 member states have national minimum wages as of 2011.\n\nThe living wage is higher than the minimum wage and is designed that a full-time worker would be able to support themselves and a small family at that wage.\n\nThe maximum number of hours worked per day or other time interval are set by law in many countries. Such laws also control whether workers who work longer hours must be paid additional compensation.\n\nBefore the Industrial Revolution, the workday varied between 11 and 14 hours. With the growth of industrialism and the introduction of machinery, longer hours became far more common, reaching as high as 16 hours per day.\n\nThe eight-hour movement led to the first law on the length of a working day, passed in 1833 in England. It limited miners to 12 hours and children to 8 hours. The 10-hour day was established in 1848, and shorter hours with the same pay were gradually accepted thereafter. The 1802 Factory Act was the first labour law in the UK.\n\nGermany was the next European country to pass labour laws; Chancellor Otto von Bismarck's main goal was to undermine the Social Democratic Party of Germany. In 1878, Bismarck instituted a variety of anti-socialist measures, but despite this, socialists continued gaining seats in the Reichstag. To appease the working class, he enacted a variety of paternalistic social reforms, which became the first type of social security. In 1883 the Health Insurance Act was passed, which entitled workers to health insurance; the worker paid two-thirds and the employer one-third of the premiums. Accident insurance was provided in 1884, while old age pensions and disability insurance followed in 1889. Other laws restricted the employment of women and children. These efforts, however, were not entirely successful; the working class largely remained unreconciled with Bismarck's conservative government.\n\nIn France, the first labour law was voted in 1841. It limited under-age miners' hours. In the Third Republic labour law was first effectively enforced, in particular after Waldeck-Rousseau 1884 law legalising trade unions. With the Matignon Accords, the Popular Front (1936–38) enacted the laws mandating 12 days each year of paid vacations for workers and the law limiting the standard workweek to 40 hours.\n\nOther labour laws involve safety concerning workers. The earliest English factory law was passed in 1802 and dealt with the safety and health of child textile workers.\n\nSuch laws prohibited discrimination against employees as morally unacceptable and illegal, in particular racial discrimination or gender discrimination.\n\nConvention no. 158 of the International Labour Organization states that an employee \"can't be fired without any legitimate motive\" and \"before offering him the possibility to defend himself\". Thus, on April 28, 2006, after the unofficial repeal of the French First Employment Contract, the Longjumeau (Essonne) \"conseil des prud'hommes\" (labour law court) judged the New Employment Contract contrary to international law and therefore \"illegitimate\" and \"without any juridical value\". The court considered that the two-years period of \"fire at will\" (without any legal motive) was \"unreasonable\", and contrary to convention.\n\nChild labour was not seen as a problem throughout most of history, only disputed with the beginning of universal schooling and the concepts of labourers' and children's rights. Use of child labour was commonplace, often in factories. In England and Scotland in 1788, about two-thirds of persons working in water-powered textile factories were children. Child labour can be factory work, mining or quarrying, agriculture, helping in the parents' business, operating a small business (such as selling food), or doing odd jobs. Children work as guides for tourists, sometimes combined with bringing in business for shops and restaurants (where they may also work). Other children do jobs such as assembling boxes or polishing shoes. However, rather than in factories and sweatshops, most child labour in the twenty-first century occurs in the informal sector, \"selling on the street, at work in agriculture or hidden away in houses — far from the reach of official inspectors and from media scrutiny.\"\n\nCollective labour law concerns the relationship between employer, employee and trade unions. Trade unions (also \"labor unions\" in the US) are organizations which generally aim to promote the interests of their members.\n\nTrade unions are organized groups of workers who engage in collective bargaining with employers. Some countries require unions and/or employers to follow particular procedures in pursuit of their goals. For example, some countries require that unions poll the membership to approve a strike or to approve using members' dues for political projects. Laws may govern the circumstances and procedures under which unions are formed. They may guarantee the right to join a union (banning employer discrimination), or remain silent in this respect. Some legal codes allow unions to obligate their members, such as the requirement to comply with a majority decision in a strike vote. Some restrict this, such as \"right to work\" legislation in parts of the United States.\n\nIn the different organization in the different countries trade union discuses with the employee on behalf of employer. At that time trade union discussed or talk with the manpower of the organization. At that time trade union perform his role like a bridge between the employee and employer.\n\nA legally binding right for workers as a group to participate in workplace management is acknowledged in some form in most developed countries. In a majority of EU member states (for example, Germany, Sweden, and France) the workforce has a right to elect directors on the board of large corporations. This is usually called \"codetermination\" and currently most countries allow for the election of one third of the board, though the workforce can have the right to elect anywhere from a single director, to just under a half in Germany. \nHowever, German company law uses a split board system, in which a \"supervisory board\" appoints an \"executive board\". Under the Mitbestimmunggesetz 1976, shareholders and employees elect the supervisory board in equal numbers, but the head of the supervisory board with a casting vote is a shareholder representative. The first statutes to introduce board level codetermination were in Britain, however most of these measures, except in universities, were removed in 1948 and 1979. The oldest surviving statute is found in the United States, in the Massachusetts Laws on manufacturing corporations, introduced in 1919, however this was always voluntary.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, similar proposals were drawn up, and a command paper produced named the Bullock Report (Industrial democracy) was released in 1977 by the James Callaghan Labour Party government. Unions would have directly elected half of the board. An \"independent\" element would also be added. However, the proposal was not enacted. The European Commission offered proposals for worker participation in the \"fifth company law directive\", which was also not implemented.\n\nIn Sweden, participation is regulated through the \"Law on board representation\". The law covers all private companies with 25 or more employees. In these companies, workers (usually through unions) have a right to appoint two board members and two substitutes. If the company has more than 1,000 employees, this rises to three members and three substitutes. It is common practice to allocate them among the major union coalitions.\n\nWorkplace statutes in many countries require that employers consult their workers on various issues.\n\nStrike action is the worker tactic most associated with industrial disputes. In most countries, strikes are legal under a circumscribed set of conditions. Among them may be that:\n\nA boycott is a refusal to buy, sell, or otherwise trade with an individual or business. Other tactics include go-slow, sabotage, work-to-rule, sit-in or en-masse not reporting to work. Some labour law explicitly bans such activity, none explicitly allows it.\n\nPicketing is often used by workers during strikes. They may congregate near the business they are striking against to make their presence felt, increase worker participation and dissuade (or prevent) strike breakers from entering the workplace. In many countries, this activity is restricted by law, by more general law restricting demonstrations, or by injunctions on particular pickets. For example, labour law may restrict secondary picketing (picketing a business connected with the company not directly with the dispute, such as a supplier), or flying pickets (mobile strikers who travel to join a picket). Laws may prohibit obstructing others from conducting lawful business; outlaw obstructive pickets allow court orders to restrict picketing locations or behaving in particular ways (shouting abuse, for example).\n\nThe labour movement has long been concerned that economic globalization would weaken worker bargaining power, as their employers could hire workers abroad to avoid domestic labour standards. Karl Marx said:\n\nThe International Labour Organization and the World Trade Organization have been a primary focus among international bodies for regulating labour markets. Conflicts arise when people work in more than one country. EU law has a growing body of workplace rules.\n\nFollowing World War One, the Treaty of Versailles contained the first constitution of a new International Labour Organization (ILO) founded on the principle that \"labour is not a commodity\", and for the reason that \"peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice\". ILO's primary role has been to coordinate international labour law by issuing Conventions. ILO members can voluntarily adopt and ratify the Conventions. For instance, the first Hours of Work (Industry) Convention, 1919 required a maximum of a 48-hour week, and has been ratified by 52 out of 185 member states. The UK ultimately refused to ratify the Convention, as did many current EU members, although the Working Time Directive adopts its principles, subject to individual opt-out. ILO's constitution comes from the 1944 Declaration of Philadelphia and under the 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work classified eight conventions as core.\n\nThese require freedom to join a union, bargain collectively and take action (Conventions No. 87 and 98), abolition of forced labour (29 and 105), abolition of labour by children before the end of compulsory school (138 and 182), and no discrimination at work (No. 100 and 111). Member compliance with the core Conventions is obligatory, even if the country has not ratified the Convention in question. To ensure compliance, the ILO is limited to gathering evidence and reporting on member states' progress, relying on publicity to create pressure to reform. Global reports on core standards are produced yearly, while individual reports on countries who have ratified other Conventions are compiled on a bi-annual or less frequent basis.\nBecause the ILO's enforcement mechanisms are weak, incorporating labour standards in the World Trade Organization's (WTO) operation has been proposed. WTO oversees, primarily, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade treaty aimed at reducing customs, tariffs and other barriers to import and export of goods, services and capital between its 157 member countries. Unlike for the ILO, contravening WTO rules as recognized by the dispute settlement procedures opens a country to retaliation through trade sanctions. This could include reinstatement of targeted tariffs against the offender.\n\nProponents have called for a \"social clause\" to be inserted into the GATT agreements, for example, by amending Article XX, which provides an exception that allows imposition of sanctions for breaches of human rights. An explicit reference to core labour standards could allow comparable action where a WTO member state breaches ILO standards. Opponents argue that such an approach could undermine labour rights, because industries, and therefore workforces could be harmed with no guarantee of reform. Furthermore, it was argued in the 1996 Singapore Ministerial Declaration 1996 that \"the comparative advantage of countries, particularly low-age developing countries, must in no way be put into question.\" Some countries want to take advantage of low wages and fewer rules as a comparative advantage to boost their economies. Another contested point is whether business moves production from high wage to low wage countries, given potential differences in worker productivity. Since GATT, most trade agreements have been bilateral. Some of these protect core labour standards. Moreover, in domestic tariff regulations, some countries give preference to countries that respect core labour rights, for example under the EC Tariff Preference Regulation, articles 7 and 8.\n\nConflicts of laws (or private international law) issues arise where workers work in multiple jurisdictions. If a US worker performs part of her job in Brazil, China and Denmark (a \"peripatetic\" worker) an employer may seek to characterize the employment contract as governed by the law of the country where labour rights are least favourable to the worker, or seek to argue that the most favourable system of labour rights does not apply. For example, in a UK labour law case, \"Ravat v Halliburton Manufacturing and Services Ltd\" Ravat was from the UK but was employed in Libya by a German company that was part of Halliburton. He was dismissed by a supervisor based in Egypt. He was told he would be hired under UK law terms and conditions, and this was arranged by a staffing department in Aberdeen. Under the UK Employment Rights Act 1996 he would have a right to claim unfair dismissal, but the Act left open the question of the statute's territorial scope. The UK Supreme Court held that the principle would be that an expatriate worker, would be subject to UK rules if the worker could show a \"close connection\" to the UK, which was found in Rabat's case.\n\nThis fits within the general framework in the EU. Under EU Rome I Regulation article 8, workers have employment rights of the country where they habitually work. They may have a claim in another country if they can establish a close connection to it. The Regulation emphasises that the rules should be applied with the purpose of protecting the worker.\n\nIt is also necessary that a court has jurisdiction to hear a claim. Under the Brussels I Regulation article 19, this requires the worker habitually works in the place where the claim is brought, or is engaged there.\n\nThe European Union has extensive labour laws that officially exclude (according to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) matters around direct wage regulation (e.g. setting a minimum wage), fairness of dismissals and collective bargaining. A series of Directives regulate almost all other issues, for instance the Working Time Directive guarantees 28 days of paid holiday, the Equality Framework Directive prohibits all forms of discrimination and the Collective Redundancies Directive requires that proper notice is given and consultation takes place on decisions about economic dismissals.\n\nHowever, the European Court of Justice has recently extended the Treaties provisions via case law. Trade unions have sought to organize across borders in the same way that multinational corporations have organized production globally. Unions have sought to take collective action and strikes internationally. However, this coordination was challenged in the European Union in two controversial decisions. In \"Laval Ltd v Swedish Builders Union\" a group of Latvian workers were sent to a construction site in Sweden. The local union took industrial action to make Laval Ltd sign up to the local collective bargaining agreement. Under the Posted Workers Directive, article 3 lays down minimum standards for foreign workers so that workers receive at least the minimum rights that they would have in their home country in case their place of work has lower minimum rights. Article 3(7) says that this \"shall not prevent application of terms and conditions of employment which are more favourable to workers\". Most people thought this meant that more favourable conditions could be given than the minimum (e.g., in Latvian law) by the host state's legislation or a collective agreement. However the European Court of Justice (ECJ) said that only the local state could raise standards beyond its minimum for foreign workers. Any attempt by the host state, or a collective agreement (unless the collective agreement is declared universal under article 3(8)) would infringe the business' freedom under TFEU article 56. This decision was implicitly reversed by the European Union legislature in the Rome I Regulation, which makes clear in recital 34 that the host state may allow more favourable standards. However, in \"The Rosella\", the ECJ held that a blockade by the International Transport Workers Federation against a business that was using an Estonian flag of convenience (i.e., saying it was operating under Estonian law to avoid labour standards of Finland) infringed the business' right of free establishment under TFEU article 49. The ECJ said that it recognized the workers' \"right to strike\" in accordance with ILO Convention 87, but said that its use must be proportionately to the right of the business' establishment.\n\nThe Fair Work Act of 2009 provides the regulations governing Australian workplaces and employers. Australia has a minimum wage and workplace conditions overseen by the Fair Work Commission.\n\nIn Canadian law, \"labour law\" refers to matters connected with unionized workplaces, while \"employment law\" deals with non-unionized employees.\n\nIn 2017, Premier Brad Wall announced that Saskatchewan's government is to cut 3.5 percent from its workers and officers' wages in 2018. This salary cut includes MLA ministers and the Premier's office staff along all people employed by the government. Unpaid days off, will also be implemented as well as limiting overtime to assist the wage cut.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China the basic labour laws are the \"Labour Law of People's Republic of China\" (promulgated on 5 July 1994) and the \"Labour Contract Law of the People's Republic of China\" (adopted at the 28th Session of the Standing Committee of the 10th National People's Congress on June 29, 2007, effective from January 1, 2008). The administrative regulations enacted by the State Council, the ministerial rules and the judicial explanations of the Supreme People's Court stipulate detailed rules concerning various aspects of employment. The government-controlled All China Federation of Trade Unions is the sole legal labour union. Strikes are formally legal, but in practice are discouraged.\n\nIn France, the first labour laws were Waldeck Rousseau's laws passed in 1884. Between 1936 and 1938 the Popular Front enacted a law mandating 12 days (2 weeks) each year of paid vacation for workers, and a law limited the work week to 40 hours, excluding overtime. The negotiated on May 25 and 26th in the middle of the May 1968 crisis, reduced the working week to 44 hours and created trade union sections in each enterprise. The minimum wage was increased by 25%. In 2000, Lionel Jospin's government enacted the 35-hour workweek, reduced from 39 hours. Five years later, conservative prime minister Dominique de Villepin enacted the New Employment Contract (CNE). Addressing the demands of employers asking for more flexibility in French labour laws, the CNE sparked criticism from trade unions and opponents claiming it favoured contingent work. In 2006, he then attempted to pass the First Employment Contract (CPE) through a vote by emergency procedure, but that was met by students and unions' protests. President Jacques Chirac finally had no choice but to repeal it.\n\nOver fifty national and many more state-level laws govern work in India. So for instance, a permanent worker can be terminated only for proven misconduct or habitual absence. In the Uttam Nakate case, the Bombay High Court held that dismissing an employee for repeated sleeping on the factory floor was illegal – the decision was overturned by the Supreme Court of India two decades later. In 2008, the World Bank criticized the complexity, lack of modernization and flexibility in Indian regulations.\n\nIran has not ratified the two basic Conventions of the International Labour Organization on freedom of association and collective bargaining and one abolishing child labour.\n\nMexican labour law reflects the historic interrelation between the state and the Confederation of Mexican Workers. The confederation is officially aligned with the Institutional Revolutionary Party (the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI). While the law promises workers the right to strike and to organize, in practice it is difficult or impossible for independent unions to organize.\n\nIn Sweden many workplace issues such as working hours, minimum wage and right to overtime compensation are regulated through collective bargaining agreements in accordance with the Swedish model of \"self-regulation\", i.e. regulation by the labour market parties themselves in contrast to \"state regulation\" (labour laws). A notable exception is the Employment Protection act which regulates employment contracts and extensive employees' rights to employment under certain conditions.\n\nThe labour law of Switzerland covers all standards governing the employment of some kind. The regulation of the employment by private employers is largely harmonized at the federal level, while public-sector employment still prevails a variety of cantonal laws. In particular, the civil standardization is distributed to a variety of laws. Of greater importance, particularly the new Federal Constitution of 1999, the Code of Obligations , the Labour Code as well as in the public sector, the Federal Personnel Act.\n\nThe Factory Acts (first one in 1802, then 1833) and the 1823 Master and Servant Act were the first laws regulating labour relations in the United Kingdom. Most employment law before 1960 was based upon the Law of Contract. Since then there has been a significant expansion primarily due to the \"equality movement\" and the European Union. Laws are either Acts of Parliament called Statutes, Statutory Regulations (made by a Secretary of State under an Act of Parliament) or Case Law (developed by various courts).\n\nThe first significant expansion was the Equal Pay Act of 1970. This act was introduced to bring about pay equality for women in the workplace. Since 1997, changes in UK employment law include enhanced maternity and paternity rights, the introduction of a National Minimum Wage and the Working Time Regulations, which covers working time, rest breaks and the right to paid annual leave. Discrimination law has been tightened, with protection from discrimination now available on the grounds of age, religion or belief and sexual orientation as well as gender, race and disability.\n\nThe Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 set the maximum standard work week to 44 hours. In 1950 this was reduced to 40 hours. A green card entitles immigrants to work, without requirement a separate work permit. Despite the 40-hour standard maximum work week, some lines of work require more than 40 hours. For example, farm workers may work over 72 hours a week, followed by at least 24 hours off. Exceptions to the break period exist for certain harvesting employees, such as those involved in harvesting grapes, tree fruits and cotton.\n\nProfessionals, clerical (administrative assistants), technical, and mechanical employees cannot be terminated for refusing to work more than 72 hours in a work week.\nThese ceilings, combined with a competitive job market, often motivate American workers to work more hours. American workers on average take the fewest days off of any developed country.\n\nThe Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the United States Constitution limit the power of the federal and state governments to discriminate. The private sector is not directly constrained by the Constitution, but several laws, particularly the Civil Rights Act of 1964, limit the private sector discrimination against certain groups. The Fifth Amendment has an explicit requirement that the Federal Government not deprive individuals of \"life, liberty, or property\", without due process of law and an implicit guarantee that each person receive equal protection of the law. The Fourteenth Amendment explicitly prohibits states from violating an individual's rights of due process and equal protection. Equal protection limits the State and Federal governments' power to discriminate in their employment practices by treating employees, former employees, or job applicants unequally because of membership in a group, like a race, religion or sex. Due process protection requires that employees have a fair procedural process before they are terminated if the termination is related to a \"liberty\", like the right to free speech, or a property interest.\n\nThe National Labor Relations Act, enacted in 1935 as part of the New Deal legislation, guarantees workers the right to form unions and engage in collective bargaining.\n\nThe Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 prohibits employment discrimination based on age with respect to employees 40 years of age or older.\n\nTitle VII of the Civil Rights Act is the principal federal statute with regard to employment discrimination, prohibiting unlawful employment discrimination by public and private employers, labour organizations, training programmes and employment agencies based on race or colour, religion, sex and national origin. Retaliation is also prohibited by Title VII against any person for opposing any practice forbidden by statute, or for making a charge, testifying, assisting, or participating in a proceeding under the statute. The Civil Rights Act of 1991 expanded the damages available to Title VII cases and granted Title VII plaintiffs the right to jury trial.\n\nThe beginnings of halakhic labour law are in the Bible, in which two commandments refer to this subject: The law against delayed wages (Lev. 19:13; Deut. 24:14-15) and the worker's right to eat the employer's crops (Deut. 23:25-26). The Talmudic law—in which labour law is called \"laws of worker hiring\"—elaborates on many more aspects of employment relations, mainly in Tractate Baba Metzi'a. In some issues the Talamud, following the Tosefta, refers the parties to the customary law: \"All is as the custom of the region [postulates]\". \nModern halakhic labour law developed very slowly. Rabbi Israel Meir Hacohen (the Hafetz Hayim) interprets the worker's right for timely payment in a tendency that clearly favours the employee over the employer, but does not refer to new questions of employment relations. Only in the 1920s we find the first halakhic authority to tackle the questions of trade unions (that could easily be anchored in Talmudic law) and the right of strike (which is quite problematic in terms of Talmudic law). Rabbis A.I Kook and B.M.H. Uziel tend to corporatist settling of labour conflicts, while Rabbi Moshe Feinstein clearly adopts the liberal democratic collective bargaining model. Since the 1940s the halakhic literature on labour law was enriched by books and articles that referred to growing range of questions and basically adopted the liberal democratic approach.\n\n"}
{"id": "48603999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48603999", "title": "Lehmann Bernheimer", "text": "Lehmann Bernheimer\n\nLehmann Bernheimer (27 December 1841 - 29 May 1918) was a German antique dealer, who built the Bernheimer-Haus in Munich.\n\nHe was born on 27 December 1841 in Buttenhausen in Münsingen, Württemberg, the third child of Meier Bernheimer (1801-1870) and his wife Sarah, née Kahn (1803-1881).\n\nIn 1887, Bernheimer bought a small coffee house and beer garden, owned and run by an Englishman, and called the \"English Café\". In its place was built the Bernheimer-Haus, which was opened in December 1889 by Prince Regent Luitpold. Initially the focus was on high-quality textiles, with the manufacture of luxury goods being slowly added. After a fire in 1897, the building was extended and antiques, tapestries and carpets were added. On his death in 1918, his son, Otto Bernheimer took over.\n"}
{"id": "56113067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56113067", "title": "List of companies founded by MIT alumni", "text": "List of companies founded by MIT alumni\n\nThis is a list of companies founded by Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, including attendees who enrolled in degree-programs at MIT but did not eventually graduate. This list is not exhaustive, as it only includes notable companies of which the founding and development history is well recorded by reliable sources. In particular, subsidiaries are listed with their owners in parentheses.\n\nMIT is one of the leading universities worldwide in attracting funding for start-up companies, and its alumni have founded numerous companies. According to PitchBook, from 2006 to 2017, MIT produced 907 company founders as alumni or current students, creating 780 companies, third most among all universities in the world. In addition, according to a report of MIT Sloan School of Management in 2015, some 30,000 companies founded by MIT alumni were active, employing 4.6 million people and producing annual revenues of $1.9 trillion, roughly equivalent to the 10th-largest economy in the world (2014). Approximately 40% of MIT founders are serial entrepreneurs, starting multiple companies, and 23% of MIT alumni’s new companies are founded outside the United States.\n\nIn this list, founders of a company which merged with other companies to form a new company are counted as founders of the new company. However, founders of a company which later dissolved into several successor companies are \"not\" counted as founders of those successor companies; this same rule applies to spin-off companies. Finally, a defunct company is a company that stopped functioning completely (e.g., bankrupt) without dissolving, merging or being acquired. \n\nThis list shows companies in Fortune Global 500 founded or co-founded by MIT alumni. The cut-off revenue for 2017 Fortune Global 500 companies is $21,609M in 2016.\n<nowiki>*:</nowiki> \n\n<nowiki>**:</nowiki> \n\nThis list shows companies in Fortune 1000 (only for companies within the U.S.) founded or co-founded by MIT alumni. The cut-off revenue for 2017 Fortune 1000 companies is $1,791M in 2016.\n\n<nowiki>*:</nowiki> \n\n<nowiki>**:</nowiki> \n\nFor each company, only the latest rankings (up to three years) are shown in this list. \n\n<nowiki>*:</nowiki> \n\nThis index also contains companies listed in section \"Notable defunct & dissolved\".\n"}
{"id": "12460192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12460192", "title": "Managed service company", "text": "Managed service company\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a form of company structure has evolved known as a managed service company (MSC). Largely born from the IR35 legislation in 1999 which came into force in 2000, this form of corporate structure places workers and contractors typically into a group of between five and eight people as shareholders in a limited company owned and run by the service provider. Sometimes the workers will be appointed as directors but always shareholders. As shareholders they can then receive minimum salary payments and the balance of income as dividends. Usually the service provider would perform administrative and company secretary duties and offer basic taxation advice.\n\nThese forms became popular with independent contractors and were used as a way of earning high net returns (up to 85% of gross) compared to PAYE, with little corporate responsibilities. In return, the providers charge a fee for delivering the service. To work within this form, workers must usually pass IR35 tests to ensure they are able to take dividend payments.\n\nIn December 2006 the UK Treasury/HMRC introduced draft legislation \"Tackling Managed Service Legislation\" which sought to address the use of \"composite\" structures to avoid Income Tax and National Insurance on forms of trading that the Treasury deemed as being akin to \"employed\". After a period of consultation and re-draft, the new legislation became law in April 2007 with additional aspects coming into force in August 2007 and fully in January 2008. A PAYE umbrella company is effectively exempted from the legislation, which also seeks to pass the possible burden of unpaid debt (should a provider \"collapse\" a structure) to interested parties e.g. A recruitment agency that has been deemed to encourage or facilitate the scheme.\n\nA number of MSC providers have since withdrawn from the market and have either converted to PAYE operations or sought to become seen as true accountants rather than scheme promoters.\n\nManaged service companies (MSC) differ from personal service companies (PSC) as it's the MSC that manages and controls the affairs of the business, not the contractor.\n\nThe 2007 Budget legislated against MSCs by removing the associated tax advantages for contractors working through them. Prior to the government's action, there were several varieties of a managed service company. \n\nOne of the most common forms was the composite company, where typically up to twenty contractors became non-director shareholders. The contractors received a low salary and expenses with the remainder payable as a dividend. This method of remuneration provided many financial benefits, since it avoided the payment of national insurance and income tax that would otherwise be payable if the contractor was paid entirely under PAYE (salary).\n\nHMRC grew increasingly frustrated with the use of MSCs which, when investigated, were able to liquidate (as they had no assets) and start trading under a new company the next day. Following the MSC legislation, it is now the responsibility of a MSC provider to correctly operate PAYE and deduct the necessary tax and NI on all income payable to a subcontractor. \n\nTo reinforce this law, the government have permitted the recovery of any underpaid taxes from appropriate third parties; principally those behind the MSC as well as connected or controlling parties.\n\nSome companies still offer variations on these schemes so it can be confusing to a contractor to know what is legal and what is not. The simplest way to operate compliantly is if you decide to work via your own PSC then you must run it yourself, do not delegate control or key decisions to a third party supplier.\n\n"}
{"id": "57244069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57244069", "title": "Marijke Mars", "text": "Marijke Mars\n\nMarijke Elizabeth Mars (born 1965) is an American billionaire heiress and businesswoman. In March 2018 Forbes estimated her wealth to be $5.9 billion. She was ranked as the 30th richest woman in the world - a position shared with her three sisters. \n\nMarijke Mars is a fourth generation member of the Mars family. Her father was late Forrest Mars Jr. (1931–2016). She has three sisters: Pamela Mars-Wright, Valerie Mars and Victoria B. Mars. She inherited about 8 percent stake of Mars Inc. in 2016, which made her a billionaire. According to Forbes, her shares were valued worth of $5.9 billion (March 2018). \n\nShe graduated (B.A./B.Sc.) from Duke University . After her graduation she has worked e.g. as a regional manager for Kal Kan Foods, one of Mars Inc.'s pet food companies. Nowadays she works at Mars Food. She married in 1991 but has later (2000) divorced.\n"}
{"id": "44746169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44746169", "title": "Máximo Lanusse", "text": "Máximo Lanusse\n\nMáximo Eduardo Lanusse (born October 11, 1973) is an Argentinian lawyer and banker who is the Administration Manager of Macro Bank. He has been investigated by the Argentinian judiciary for his involvement in the \"Boudougate\" scandal.\n\nBorn on October 11, 1973, Lanusse received his law degree from the University of Buenos Aires.\n\nHe was the Administration Manager of Macro Bank beginning in February 2007. According to \"La Nacion\", Macro Bank distanced itself from Lanusse as the Boudougate scandal grew in 2012. He was forced to leave the bank, although his brother, Javier, continued to run a branch of the bank in the province of Jujuy.\n\nLanusse was Vice President of the shell company The Old Fund, chaired by Alejandro Vandenbroele, which purchased 70% of the shares of the printing firm Ciccone Calcografica. Ciccone Calcografica later changed its name to the Compañía de Valores Sudamericana (American Securities Company), or CVS, upon the naming of Lanusse and Nicolas Ciccone Tadeo as members of its board in July 2011. The purpose of the acquisition of Ciccone Calcografica was to profit from federal government contracts for the production of currency.\n\n\"La Nacion\" reported on September 5, 2012, that Lanusse had deposited a total of about $5.4 million in an account in Santandar Rio bank in the name of The Old Fund several weeks before the Boudougate scandal broke. These deposits raised concerns at the bank, which sent a \"suspicious transaction report\" to the Financial Intelligence Unit. They occurred at a time when The Old Fund was making money, earning $13 million from the Front for Victory (FPV) for the printing of election ballots and contracting with the National Mint for the printing of $100 banknotes at a price of $9.6 million per month. Because of the need to pay wages as well as the debts of the former incarnation of Ciccone Calcografica, the funds Lanusse deposited in the bank were crucial for the firm's survival.\n\nAn October 2012 news story in \"Clarin\" revealed that Vandenbroele had earned 38,000 pesos a month as president of CVS, while Lanusse had earned 48,000 pesos as the same firm's vice president, according to a new government report. \"Clarin\" noted that it is unheard of for the salary of a company's vice president to exceed that of its president, and described this \"inexplicable\" situation as \"one more of the many curiosities about the Ciccone scandal.\"\n\nOn June 2, 2014, prosecutor Jorge Di Lello asked Judge Ariel Lijo to order an investigation of Lanusse, in addition to Jose Maria Nunez Carmona, Alejandro Vandenbroele, and others, for their involvement in \"different stages\" of the irregular activity surrounding The Old Fund's purchase of Ciccone Calcografica SA. Lijo ordered the investigation shortly thereafter. Allegedly, Lanusse had deposited large sums of money into the firm's accounts in Banco Macro. Reports stated that The Old Fund was financed principally by the Cooperativa de Crédito Marítima del Sur, managed by Cirilo Zavalía, who was linked to the Macro Group. Another firm that partially financed The Old Fund was Facimex Bursátil Sociedad de Bolsa, which placed $620 million in government securities into an account that Dusbel, a subsidiary of The Old Fund, opened at Facimex. These securities, converted into pesos, were deposited into The Old Fund's account in Macro Bank.\n\nIt was reported on June 12, 2014, that Lanusse was the real CEO of CVS, with Alejandro Vandenbroele being only a front man.\n\nA report on June 30, 2014, in the political journal \"Letra P\" stated that prosecutor Jorge Di Lello, since three days earlier, had had \"an obsession,\" namely ensuring the investigation of Lanusse. The report stated that Lanusse, according to many who had encountered him over the course of his banking career, had never been particularly bright, but \"no one denies that he moved like a lynx\" when selling anything and making a profit off of it.\n\nAs of September 2012, Lanusse lived in a rented apartment in Recoleta.\n"}
{"id": "43546228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43546228", "title": "Osamu Suzuki (businessman)", "text": "Osamu Suzuki (businessman)\n\nOsamu Matsuda was born in Gero, Gifu, a Japanese city on the banks of River Hida, to Toshiki S. Matsuda and Shunzo, on January 30, 1930. After graduating from the Chuo University in 1953, Osamu started his career as a loan officer in a local bank. His life took a turn when he married Shoko Suzuki, the granddaughter of the patriarch of Suzuki Motor Corporation, Michio Suzuki. As Suzuki family did not have a male heir, Osamu was married into the family, and following the Japanese custom, Osamu took up the family name of Suzuki, to become Osamu Suzuki. He is the fourth adopted son to run the company.\n\nShoko and Osamu Suzuki have three children and the family lives in Hamamatsu city in the Prefecture of Shizuoka, in Japan.\n\nOsamu Suzuki joined Suzuki Motor Corporation in 1958, worked through various positions including junior management posts and rose to the rank of the Director, in 1963. He became the Junior Managing Director in 1967 and was promoted to the post of the Senior Managing Director, in 1972. In 1978, Osamu became the President and the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and, in 2000, he stepped down from the post of the CEO to take up the Chairmanship of the Suzuki Motor Corporation.\n\nWith more than three decades as the head of Suzuki Motor Corporation, Osamu Suzuki is reported to be one of the longest serving leaders in the global auto industry. Recently, concerns are afloat regarding the successor to Osamu Suzuki, which started taking rounds since the death of Hirotaka Ono, Osamu's son in law, who was being groomed for the take over. Hirotaka Ono died in 2007, at the age of 52, succumbing to pancreatic cancer.\n\nOsamu Suzuki is credited to have transformed Suzuki Corporation into one of the largest small car manufacturers in the world. Instead of taking the major automakers head-on, Osamu expanded the company by finding new markets for its small cars, a strategy, often termed as marketing by diplomacy. He traveled around the globe to find prospective markets for his low priced cars and used diplomacy to penetrate them by forging new alliances.\n\nThe market run of Suzuki started in the late sixties when they started setting up satellite manufacturing units abroad. The first of such plants was in Thailand in 1967 which was followed by another one in Indonesia, in 1974. The next year saw Suzuki's entry into the Philippines. In 1980, Suzuki started a plant in Australia and another one in Pakistan, in 1982. He was also successful in forming an alliance with General Motors, which gained Suzuki Corporation, an entry into the European market.\n\nOne of the most notable achievements of Osamu Suzuki is his entry into the Indian market in the early eighties. In 1982, Suzuki formed a partnership with the Government of India to launch Maruti Udyog Limited and transformed the market which, until then, was dominated by old fashioned automobiles which ran on outdated technology. In the next decade, the factory turned into the hub of Suzuki manufacturing for the Indian subcontinent and East European markets, producing around 200,000 units a year.\n\nSuzuki entered the New Zealand market in 1984 and five years later, in 1989, extended its reach to Canada while maintaining the service to the markets of Nepal and Bangladesh through its Indian manufacturing unit, to take the total production to 10 million units. By 1993, Suzuki was selling 3 out of 4 and 2 out of 3 cars sold in India and Pakistan respectively and was selling more cars than any other Japanese manufacturer. The nineties also saw Suzuki entering the Asian markets of Korea and Vietnam as well as Egypt and Hungary.\n\nBrisk overseas expansion tailored by Osamu Suzuki made the company grow to such levels that by the start of the 21st century, it had 60 plants in 31 countries and with a sales reach in 190 countries. It even experienced a one-year growth of 33.7 per cent in 2003 with the sales turn over reaching 16.8157 billion. The next year saw Suzuki becoming the largest small car manufacturer in Japan, The two wheeler division, the third behind Honda and Yamaha and the outboard engine division making rapid strides.\n\nSuzuki Corporation made a record profit of 107.5 billion and its shares rose 13 per cent against the 3.5 percent decline experienced by the market.\n\nOsamu Suzuki built the Suzuki empire, in a conservative way, by looking across the globe for prospective buyers and by cutting costs sharply. He is stated to be concerned about wasteful spending and always on the look-out for ways to save costs. It is reported that once, during a routine factory inspection, he cited 215 cases of wasteful expenditure such as removing 1900 light bulbs to save 40,000 in electricity costs, asking the executives to take split trip railway tickets, rather than direct fare tickets, thereby saving 2 per ticket and changing the color of the factory floor to save paint.\n\nDuring his reign as the Chief Executive Officer, Suzuki Corporation was transformed into a global conglomerate. He was successful in spreading the Suzuki message in 190 countries where the auto giant is having significant presence. He had the vision to avoid a direct fight with the other global auto manufacturers who were competing with each other using cutting edge technology. Instead, he looked out for unexplored markets with small but modern cars which changed the automobile trends in the countries he entered. In India, for example, he introduced small modern cars when the market was dominated by old fashioned, outdated cars, there by, reportedly, revolutionizing the auto industry.\n\nOsamu Suzuki's fiscal prudence is reported to be one of the reasons behind the rise of Suzuki Motor Corporation to the status of an auto giant by selling small low priced cars, still making a profit.\n\n"}
{"id": "45111967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45111967", "title": "Oscar Barrientos", "text": "Oscar Barrientos\n\nOscar Barrientos (born July 16, 1943 Occidental Mindoro, Philippines) is a retired Philippine Regional Trial Court judge. He has been an executive vice president of and spokesman for Mighty Corporation since November 2013.\n\nBarrientos is a qualified lawyer and a certified public accountant; he was admitted to the Philippine Bar on March 9, 1971. He graduated from Far Eastern University in Manila with a double major in commerce and law. He later earned a master's degree at the Asian Institute of Management.\n\nBarrientos is a businessman, professor, and lawyer, with experience in corporate law, financial management, and managerial accounting. He was appointed judge of Malolos Regional Trial Court (Branch 82) in 1995. Barrientos retired from the bench and took a leave from teaching in late 2012..\n"}
{"id": "24067076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24067076", "title": "Phil Murphy", "text": "Phil Murphy\n\nPhilip Dunton Murphy (born August 16, 1957) is an American financier, diplomat and politician serving as the 56th Governor of New Jersey since 2018. A member of the Democratic Party, he defeated then Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno in the 2017 gubernatorial election.\n\nMurphy served as the United States Ambassador to Germany from 2009 to 2013, during which time he dealt with fallout from the United States diplomatic cables leak. He served as finance chairman for the Democratic National Committee in the mid-late 2000s under Howard Dean. Before that Murphy had a 23-year career at Goldman Sachs, where he held several high-level positions and accumulated considerable wealth before retiring in 2006. He is additionally involved in many civic organizations and philanthropic pursuits. While planning to run for governor, Murphy launched New Way for New Jersey, a liberal organization intended to increase his political visibility in the state.\n\nMurphy was born in Needham, Massachusetts, and was raised in both Needham and nearby Newton, and is the son of Dorothy Louise (Dunton) and Walter F. Murphy. According to Murphy, his family was \"middle class on a good day.\" The family was of Irish American heritage, with Phil being third generation. By his recollection, his mother, a secretary, and father, a high-school dropout who took any job he could (including liquor store manager and for-pay pallbearer), lived paycheck to paycheck. At age 13, Murphy began working \"under the table\" as a dishwasher to augment the family income.\n\nBoth of his parents were enthusiastic supporters of John F. Kennedy and volunteered for his campaign in the United States Senate election in Massachusetts, 1952. Murphy played soccer as a boy, an interest that stayed with him in later life. His mother believed strongly in the importance of education and Phil and his three older siblings all earned college degrees.\n\nMurphy put himself through college with student loans and part-time jobs. He attended Harvard University, where he was president of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals and, as he sang and danced, aspired for a time to a life in musical theater. But he changed direction and graduated in 1979 with an A.B. degree in economics. Wanting not to relive his upbringing's lack of financial security, he then attended the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, receiving an MBA in 1983.\n\nMurphy first met his future wife, Tammy Snyder, in 1987 when they both worked at Goldman Sachs, but Murphy did not ask her out for another seven years. When he finally did, things progressed quickly: they became engaged 18 days later and were married within six months, in 1994.\n\nMurphy and his wife have four children, three sons and a daughter. They live in Monmouth County in New Jersey. The children have been educated at Rumson Country Day School and the Philips Academy. Tammy Snyder Murphy has held a variety of financial, civic, and political positions as well as having been a homemaker.\n\nMurphy's position at Goldman Sachs when the firm had its IPO brought his net worth above $50 million. By one estimate, reported in \"Der Spiegel\" in 2009, his wealth after leaving the firm was in the range of several hundred million dollars.\n\nMurphy moved to Middletown Township, New Jersey, in the late 1990s. He and his family live in a riverside estate with a $200,000 annual property tax bill. Murphy also owns homes in Berlin and Italy.\n\nIn 2016, Murphy released five years' worth of federal tax returns. In 2014 he earned about $6 million, paid about $2 million in taxes for an effective tax rate of 34%, and directly or indirectly donated 24% of his income to charity. The returns for the other years showed effective tax rates ranging between 32% and 39%. Murphy's charitable donations during these five years averaged about $980,000 a year. Due to his wealth and the complicated nature of his holdings, his federal tax filings have been known to exceed 300 pages in length.\n\nMurphy began his career with a summer associate internship at Goldman Sachs in 1982. He was hired after graduating in 1983. He rose in the ranks quickly, later attributing that success to his ability to make deals: \"Two people may not like each other and can't work together. Their mutual dislike is their problem. I don't let it become mine. I'll be the man in the middle and the three of us can work out something everybody is happy with.\"\n\nFrom 1993 to 1997, Murphy headed the firm's Frankfurt office. His business responsibilities were later expanded to encompass Germany, Switzerland, and Austria, as well as in the emerging post-Warsaw Pact economies of Central Europe. In this role he engaged in a number of transactions with the German government's Treuhandanstalt agency, whose purpose was to conduct the privatization of formerly state-owned enterprises within the boundaries of no-longer-extant East Germany. Murphy was also active in the Atlantik-Brücke organization, including co-founding its International Advisor Council.\n\nFrom 1997 to 1999, Murphy served as the President of Goldman Sachs (Asia). In that capacity, he was officed in Hong Kong. During this time Goldman Sachs profited from its investment in Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings, a shoe manufacturer that became notorious for its harsh labor practices. The $55 million investment was made the year before Murphy took the Asia post and it is unclear to what extent Murphy was aware of the firm's operational characteristics. In 1998, Murphy told the \"Wall Street Journal\" that \"We [at Goldman Sachs] are elite in the sense the Marine Corps is elite\".\n\nIn 1999, Murphy secured a spot on the firm's Management Committee. There his colleagues included Hank Paulson and Gary Cohn, both of whom later served at highest levels of the federal government. This coincided with the and made a profound change in how Murphy and his colleagues made their profits, with much greater use of leverage than before.\n\nIn 2001, Murphy became global co-head of the firm's Investment Management Division. This unit oversaw the investments of foundations, pensions, hedge funds, and wealthy personages, and by 2003 had amassed $373 billion in holdings. Hedge funds in particular received large lines of credit from Murphy's unit. Another company initiative that Murphy helped to undertake was the unit that did major business in the emerging markets within the EMEA region.\n\nIn 2003, Murphy's day-to-day responsibilities at the firm ended, and he became a Senior Director of the firm. He retired in 2005-06. In all, Murphy spent 23 years at Goldman Sachs.\n\nAfter leaving Goldman Sachs, Murphy served from 2006 to 2009 as the National Finance Chair of the Democratic National Committee (DNC), where he worked with DNC Chair Howard Dean. Murphy liked both Dean's vision for the party and the discipline Dean brought to the task, and the two became close friends.\n\nIt was Murphy who financed Dean's \"50-state strategy\". The strategy was opposed by powerful Democrats in Congress such as Charles Schumer and Rahm Emanuel, but Murphy refused to visibly engage in this dispute, saying, \"I'm a sucker for the view that you have it out in the locker room, not in public.\" Former Goldman Sachs colleague and U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Robert Rubin said of Murphy's ability to handle the new position, \"He has very substantial technical expertise from his corporate finance work, but he combines that with a wonderful facility for dealing with people.\" Dean later said that Murphy well learned the lesson not all such figures of commerce understand: that while in business you can command people to do things, in politics things are never so simple.\n\nDuring his first year Murphy focused on gaining donations from his contacts from his university years and Goldman Sachs; within that year he was able to substantially reduce the DNC's gap with the Republican National Committee. In all, Murphy says he raised $300 million for the DNC.\n\nMurphy was also a big donor to Democratic candidates, giving them almost $1.5 million by 2009. This included modest contributions to individual candidates and several six-figure sums to party committees. During the hotly contested 2008 Democratic presidential primaries he was a superdelegate but remained uncommitted for most of the contest.\n\nMurphy has been appointed to the boards or committees of various civic or philanthropic groups. Among these are the NAACP, the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, the Center for American Progress, 180 Turning Lives Around, and several programs of the University of Pennsylvania such as the Huntsman Program in International Studies and Business and the Wharton School Graduate Executive and Asian Program. Other such entities include the Goldman Sachs Foundation, the Investment Company Institute, and Prosperity New Jersey. He has served as the grand marshal of the St. Patrick's Day Parade in Rumson, New Jersey, several times.\n\nMurphy has helped lead local charities to support troubled teens and domestic abuse survivors. He and his wife founded 2nd Floor, a teen helpline in New Jersey that had fielded 700,000 calls by 2015 and that has helped save lives.\n\nDuring 2004-05, Murphy co-chaired a national task force on 21st-century public education for the Center for American Progress that featured fellow co-chairs Governor of Arizona Janet Napolitano and academic and civil rights figure Roger Wilkins.\nThe Renewing Our Schools, Securing Our Future task force issued a report called \"Getting Smarter, Becoming Fairer: A Progressive Education Agenda For A Stronger Nation\". It called for a longer school day, a reorganized school year, and extending learning scenarios to the pre-kindergarten and post-high school domains.\n\nThe Murphy family's time in Germany made them all soccer enthusiasts. Murphy has served on the boards of the U.S. Soccer Foundation and the U.S. Soccer Federation World Cup Bid Committee for 2018 and 2022. He owns a stake in the professional New Jersey women's soccer club Sky Blue FC; he has said that he knows the club is a money-losing venture but that he wanted to show his soccer-playing daughter that women's professional soccer can exist in the United States.\n\nIn May 2005, Acting Governor Richard Codey named Murphy to chair the New Jersey Benefits Task Force on public sector employee benefits in response to the New Jersey pension crisis, a particularly long-running instance of the state-level pensions crises taking place nationwide.\n\nThe task force reported its findings in December 2005. By this time Murphy was already considered to be retired from Goldman Sachs. The report decried past state practices, saying that \"gimmicks\" had been constructed instead of genuine solutions.\n\nAs chair, Murphy recommended the sale of publicly owned assets. For the most part that did not happen, but some of his other suggestions, such as raising the age of retirement and recalculating how pensions related to salary earned, were taken. Labor unions opposed the recommendations, with leader Carla Katz saying, \"We will fight vigorously and loudly against any cuts to our pensions or health benefits proposed by the task force.\" The \"New York Times\" wrote that \"no matter what happens, the report's legacy may well be that it tried to tackle the issues head-on.\"\n\nMurphy served as United States Ambassador to Germany under President Barack Obama from 2009 to 2013. The possibility of his being named to the post was first reported by \"Spiegel Online International\" in May 2009. The former U.S. Ambassador John Kornblum supported the choice, saying, \"Murphy has been involved in German-American relations for many years. He's a good choice.\" An agrément was issued, and Obama formally nominated him to the position on July 9. Murphy was confirmed by the United States Senate on August 7, and appeared with his family in Berlin on August 21. That they arrived in an expensive Gulfstream V executive jet irked Chancellor Merkel, who saw it as evidence of the long practice of presidents awarding wealthy donors with ambassadorships. Murphy presented his credentials in Berlin to German President Horst Koehler on September 3, which the State Department considers his effective start date. He was sworn into the position on September 13.\n\nDuring his tenure, Murphy promoted American trade and focused on engaging Germany's youth through town hall meetings, exchange programs, and social media communication. Murphy said, \"The legacy of our time together in Germany will be measured by how well we 'set the table' for tomorrow, by how deeply today's youth understand the ongoing relevance of the transatlantic bridge. They are tomorrow's leaders and our investment in their future is our highest priority.\" In doing so he paid particular attention to children who were part of immigration to Germany, who rarely had the opportunity to meet Americans.\n\nThe United States diplomatic cables leak, published by WikiLeaks in 2010, contained negative statements Murphy signed about senior German politicians, including a remark by Murphy that Merkel was \"insecure\" and unfavorable comments by embassy staff about Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister. Some German officials expressed desire that Murphy be recalled. In response, Murphy appeared on German television outlets such as ZDF in an attempt at damage control. In \"Spiegel Online\", he said, \"I'm a big boy. At the end of the day, the buck stops with me,\" and that he would not \"apologize for one speck\" of what his staff had done. On December 5, he apologized for the leak in Welt am Sonntag. Murphy later said that the episode was \"incredibly awkward and embarrassing\" but that the two countries worked through it, and that in the end Germany-United States relations were stronger than ever.\nRegarding the European debt crisis, Murphy said in 2013, \"The big debate in Europe, which I think is a false debate, is either fiscal consolidation or growth. And the reality is that Europe needs both: it needs fiscal consolidation and growth.\" Regarding economic differences between the nations, he said, \"Germany believes strongly that the first order of business is to cut your debts and deficits and from that, good things will come. We're more likely to say a little bit of stimulus will jump-start things, even if it means incurring more debt. But you work your way through those issues.\"\n\nOn May 29, 2013, it was announced that Murphy was stepping down from the post. He was still ambassador as of July 3; he returned to the United States at some point during July and formally stayed in the role until his mission terminated on August 26.\n\nMurphy was mentioned as a potential candidate in the 2013 New Jersey gubernatorial election, but did not run. Rather, upon returning to the United States he returned to Murphy Endeavors LLC, a business management consultancy firm, of which he was the principal, with offices in Red Bank, New Jersey. He started the firm in 2009 after leaving the DNC position, but it was soon put on hold due to his ambassadorial nomination. He also gave speeches about his experiences in Germany, especially in connection with the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.\n\nIn 2014, Murphy created New Start New Jersey, a nonprofit progressive policy think tank that held a number of events around New Jersey. His wife Tammy was co-founder, chair, and secretary. The organization said it would neither endorse nor fund political candidates, as it was barred from doing so, but it did serve to raise Murphy's political visibility. Its events included an appearance by singer Jon Bon Jovi. One of its goals was to help displaced workers back into the work force. (Making reference to visibility, in 2016 hacked Podesta emails revealed that Murphy was already seriously considering a run for governor when the organization was founded, telling Podesta that his ambitions were \"\"very\" serious but not yet committed\" and that the new entity would improve his name recognition.)\n\nIn September 2015, Murphy launched a progressive organization named New Way for New Jersey, which held a number of town halls, including some by telephone on Sunday evenings, and encouraged Democrats to sign petitions critical of incumbent Governor Chris Christie. Unlike New Start New Jersey, New Way for New Jersey was an explicitly political organization.\n\nDuring this time and making reference to Christie's presidential campaign and his subsequent support and travel on behalf of Donald Trump's presidential campaign, Murphy implored Christie, \"Do your job or quit.\" Murphy supported Hillary Clinton in the 2016 Democratic primary and fundraised for her.\n\nAfter Murphy announced his candidacy for governor, New Way for New Jersey folded. New Start New Jersey continued, albeit without Murphy on its board.\n\nIn May 2016, Murphy announced his candidacy for the Democratic nomination in the 2017 New Jersey gubernatorial election. He became the race's first announced candidate. He has said of his rationale, \"I am running for governor because New Jersey desperately needs adult leadership that puts our people first.\"\n\nAnnouncing so early was unusual. Comparisons with unpopular former governor Jon Corzine, another wealthy former Goldman Sachs executive, were a challenge Murphy had to meet. Murphy also began the campaign with little name recognition. He initially planned to lend $10 million to the campaign but to also aggressively fund-raise. He said he would accept no so-called dark money and that \"I'm holding our campaign to a higher standard.\"\n\nMurphy was the first declared Democratic candidate for governor, although several other candidates were expected to run. Mayor of Jersey City Steven Fulop, Assemblyman John Wisniewski of Sayreville, State Senator Raymond Lesniak, and State Senate President Stephen M. Sweeney of Gloucester County were often mentioned in news media along with other candidates. Fulop and Sweeney were geographic rivals, and in terms of state party organizational support, Max Pizarro of the \"New York Observer\" characterized Murphy as \"everyone's number two choice. If Fulop or Sweeney stumbles, Murphy could rocket from zero to 100 overnight.\"\n\nOn September 28, 2016, Fulop announced he would not run for governor and endorsed Murphy. On October 6, Sweeney announced he too would not run, citing apparent party support for Murphy, whom he endorsed. The move came as Murphy was corralling dozens of endorsements, including all of those from North Jersey county party committees and the most populous Central Jersey county committees.\n\nAs a result of these withdrawals Murphy became the clear front-runner for the nomination, but Wisniewski and Lesniak, the two best-known remaining potential candidates, both said they still intended to run.\n\nAfter the unexpected result of the 2016 United States presidential election, Murphy noted that the fortunes of the state Democratic Party had improved in the election, saying, \"As with so many, I am disappointed by the [presidential] results from Tuesday. But I refuse to be discouraged. And I won't be dissuaded from working to make New Jersey a fairer, more just place for all of us.\" Murphy subsequently drew criticism from the New Jersey Lieutenant Governor and Republican candidate for governor, Kim Guadagno, for seeming to draw a comparison between the Trump campaign and the early years of the Nazi rise to power in Germany.\n\nOn November 15, Wisniewski, who gained visibility as a leader of the Fort Lee lane closure scandal investigations, announced his run for governor. In his message he implicitly criticized Murphy, saying \"I'm not a Wall Street executive. I haven't made hundreds of millions of dollars by outsourcing jobs. I've learned the value of public service...\"\n\nIn January 2017, Murphy was endorsed by New Jersey's two U.S. senators, Bob Menendez and Cory Booker. He also had the endorsements of all 21 county party organizations. In statewide races, these designations offer favorable ballot position, which some voters pick by default, and are often central to success.\n\nBy February 2017, Murphy was leading by a solid margin in a Quinnipiac Poll both for the Democratic nomination and in a putative general election matchup against Guadagno. Another poll was less certain, showing most voters undecided.\n\nTwo debates with his main Democratic rivals, including former U.S. Treasury official Jim Johnson along with Wiesiewski and Lesniak, were held within a short span of time in May; during the second Murphy found himself under sustained attack by his rivals, but defended himself by staking out very progressive positions. \"Politico\" wrote, \"Underdogs Jim Johnson, Ray Lesniak and John Wisniewski savaged the front-runner, Phil Murphy, accusing him during the 90-minute televised contest of buying off party bosses and being disingenuous on environmental issues.\" Subsequent campaigning by those three continued to emphasize that Murphy was \"buying\" the election. Nonetheless, polls continued to show Murphy with a sizable lead over all rivals.\n\nWith $19 million raised, of which $15 million was his own money, Murphy continued to spend the most of all the candidates; his spending was more than twice that of all the other Democratic and Republican candidates for governor combined. He also donated $1.5 million to the various county party organizations as well as to some candidates for local offices. Murphy captured the endorsement of the first major national figure to inject himself into the race, former Vice President Joe Biden. Additionally, he was endorsed by former Vice President Al Gore, which helped solidify Murphy's environmentalist credentials after some attacks on his role as a financier investing in fracking operations. He also had the fundraising support of wealthy entertainment figures Jon Bon Jovi and Whoopi Goldberg. Most, though not all, of the key labor unions in the state, also supported Murphy. Nevertheless, there was still a sense of apathy about the election on the part of the state's voters; as the \"New York Times\" stated shortly before the primary vote, \"a majority of voters still say they 'don't know' who to vote for and are not doing much to find out.\"\n\nIn the June 6 Democratic primary, Murphy won a decisive victory with 48% of the vote. Johnson and Wisniewski finished second and third with 22% apiece, Lesniak got 5%, and scattered others less.\n\nMurphy faced Guadagno, the Republican nominee, in the November general election. As that general campaign was underway, Guadagno ran as a moderate, attempting to avoid association with both Christie, who held a record-low approval rating for a governor, and Donald Trump. Instead she sought to focus on Murphy's Goldman Sachs background.\n\nOn July 26, Murphy announced Assemblywoman and Speaker Emerita Sheila Oliver as his running mate for Lieutenant Governor of New Jersey.\n\n\n2017 New Jersey Democratic gubernatorial primary\n\n2017 New Jersey gubernatorial election\n\nMurphy was sworn in as Governor of New Jersey on January 16, 2018.\n\nOn October 15, 2018, an independent investigation into Murphy's hiring of former Schools Development Authority Chief of Staff Al Alvarez was commissioned. The next day, the New Jersey Legislature announced it would form an investigative panel regarding Murphy's hiring decisions.\n\nMurphy first faced questions about his hiring practices when he selected Marcellus Jackson as an aide in the Department of Education. Jackson had served prison time for taking bribes as a councilman in Passaic County and thus was not allowed to hold public positions. Murphy stood by Jackson, but Jackson was forced to resign.\n\nMurphy also faces questions about Al Alvarez, who was accused of sexual assault by Katie Brennan, now chief of staff at the state’s housing agency. Brennan alleged that Alvarez sexually assaulted her in April 2017, after a gathering of Murphy campaign staffers at a bar in Jersey City. Alvarez had offered to drive Brennan home and asked to go inside Brennan's home to use the bathroom. Once inside, Alvarez allegedly pushed her on a couch, forced himself on top of her, pulled down Brennan's shirt and put his mouth on her breasts, and shoved his hand down her pants, putting his fingers in her vagina. Brennan claims she kicked Alvarez off and locked herself in a bathroom.\n\nBrennan claims she brought her allegations to the Murphy camp three times. The first time was when she alerted the transition team after Murphy won the election in November 2017 while Brennan was working for the transition team. Next, Brennan brought the complaint in March 2018 to Matt Platkin, chief counsel to the governor, who referred the matter to an ethics official in the governor's office. Brennan finally emailed Murphy and his wife on June 1, 2018, saying she wanted to discuss a \"sensitive matter.\" No discussion ever occurred, but Brennan said a campaign attorney told her Alvarez would no longer have a state government job. Alvarez stayed at his job for about four months after Brennan was told he would be out.\n\nNew Jersey Supreme Court Justice Peter Verniero will lead an independent investigation into a \"systemic review of the hiring and vetting practices of the governor-elect’s transition office.\" Additionally, New Jersey Senate President Stephen Sweeney will form a six-member, bipartisan committee to investigate the handling of sexual assault allegations against Alvarez, among other issues.\n\nIn 2015, Murphy received an honorary degree from Hamilton College.\n\n"}
{"id": "9466160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9466160", "title": "Qasim Ibrahim", "text": "Qasim Ibrahim\n\nQasim Ibrahim (also known as \"Buruma Qasim\") is a Maldivian business magnate, philanthropist and politician. In 1986, Ibrahim founded Villa Shipping and Trading Company Pvt. Ltd, the Maldives largest private conglomerate company. Ibrahim is the chairman, and largest shareholder of Villa Group, and is one of the wealthiest businessman in the country. He does his philanthropic activity through Villa Foundation, an philanthropic organisation, which helps Maldivians with health and educational difficulties by offering medical assistance and scholarships.\n\nHe ran as the presidential candidate of the Jumhooree Party in the 2013 elections, losing the first round.\n\nIbrahim began his career in 1969 as a clerk at the government hospital in Malé. In 1973 he left the hospital to work as a manager at M/S Alia Furniture Mart. Subsequently, he worked for Crescent, a trading organisation of the Government, for a short period.\n\nIn 1974 he joined an outlet of the Maldivian government's Bodu Store, now known as the State Trading Organisation. Two years later, he set up his own trading business in commodities such as rice, tobacco, diesel and kerosene, which proved to be profitable and the business experienced rapid growth. He later expanded his business with a small loan of US$2,000 from State Bank of India (SBI), which is still his primary banker.\n\nAfter four years, Ibrahim was able to purchase his first shipping vessel, an old fishing vessel converted to carry cargo and oil, to facilitate oil imports. By April 14, 1986, Ibrahim's business was registered under the name of Villa Shipping and Trading Company Limited (Villa). Since then, the company has diversified its business with substantial national share in diverse industries such as tourism, transport, construction, manufacturing, Gas, Cement trade, Media and Communication, in addition to general trading, with Sole Distributorships of international products. Shell and Agfa are among the brand names represented by Villa in the Maldives.\n\nThe shareholders of the holding company, Villa Shipping & Trading Company Private Limited (VSTC) are Qasim Ibrahim and one of his wives, Rabia Hussain, holding 95% and 5% respectively. For strategic reasons, Villa Shipping (Singapore) Pte Limited was incorporated in Singapore on December 19, 1991, a 100% subsidiary. The paid up capital by Villa Shipping (Singapore) now stands at S$500,000.\n\nOn 23 July 1997, with the primary objective of promoting Villa resorts. Villa Holidays Touristik GmbH opened in Frankfurt, Germany and was incorporated with a paid-up capital of DM500,000. The company acts as a wholesaler for holiday packages to the Maldives, an agent for sales of hotel rooms, sale of air tickets, and a vehicle for acquiring and trading of tourism related properties and real estate such as hotels and resorts worldwide. It has since become a major subsidiary to promote the Group's own resorts, Fun Island, Paradise Island, Sun Island, Holiday Island and Royal Island.\n\nVilla Hotels, Tokyo and Villa Hotels, Hong Kong were established in 2001 and 2002 respectively.\n\nIbrahim has also funded many infrastructure projects in several islands across the archipelago, most notably in developing harbours, construction of schools and mosques. He is currently working on setting up of a full-fledge General Hospital in Maamigili Island, which will have the first cancer treatments facility in the country.\n\nIbrahim was first elected as a Member of Parliament in 1989. In addition, he has held and still holds various other posts in a number of government committees and regional trade bodies.\n\n\nHe resigned from his post as the Minister of Finance and Treasury on 10 July 2008 to stand for the first multi-party presidential elections in October 2008, as the candidate of the Jumhooree Party. He also resigned from his position as the Deputy Leader of the Dhivehi Rayyithunge Party (DRP) on the same day.\n\nIbrahim joined the MDP-led coalition in the second round of the elections, helping Mohamed Nasheed to secure a historic victory and bring an end to the thirty-year one-man rule of Maumoon Abdul Gayoom. Ibrahim initially joined President Nasheed's government as Minister for Home Affairs but resigned 20 days later, citing indifferences in governing policies, especially in relation to Mr. Nasheed's privatisation policies. He since became a vocal opposition to Mr. Nasheed's government and is accused of having funded the anti-Nasheed protests that began in early 2012, ultimately leading to his resignation, after pressure from mutinying police and the army on 7 February 2012.\n\nIbrahim has been imprisoned on politically motivated cases during Gayoom's regime as well as during Nasheed's brief reign.\n\nHe was arrested in 2009 on the suspicion that he was bribing MPs to vote against the government of President Nasheed. He was later released without charge.\n\nHe is currently representing Maamigilee Constituency in Maldives Parliament.\nQasim Ibrahim was arrested for speaking against the government on rally held by the \"Maldives United Opposition\". He was accused of leading a failed bid in March to impeach Speaker Abdulla Maseeh Mohamed, a close ally of president Abdulla Yameen.\n\nIn July 2010, the State Minister for Finance Ahmed Assad stated in a Presidents Office Press Brief that Maldives was facing hurdles in borrowing money because a specific Majlis member was borrowing a large sum of money which in turn was lowering the country’s credit rating. It was stated that this Member has made a request to the government to give him a ‘letter of no objection’ to borrow a further large sum, he said. Though the Minister refused to name the Majlis member at the conference but it is widely assumed in the Maldivian media that the Majlis member is Qasim Ibrahim.\n\nIn September 2008, the Auditor General submitted a report to the People’s Majlis and issued on the website of the Auditor General’s office, to the effect that Villa Group have been found to be involved in illicit trading of shares.\n\nIn February 2013, Qasim Ibrahim who is the Parliament’s representative to the Judicial Service Commission (JSC), accused UN Special Rapporteur on Independence of Judges and Lawyers Gabriela Knaul of lying and joking about the state of the Maldivian judiciary. Knaul’s highlighted that the JSC – mandated with the appointment, transfer and removal of judges – was unable to perform its constitutional duty adequately in its current form. Her comment was among a number of preliminary observations on the Maldives’ judiciary and wider legal ecosystem, following an eight-day fact-finding mission.\n\nWhen Qasim Ibrahim was Finance Minister, controversy reigned regarding the tourism investment by EIB. The European Investment Bank (EIB) has invested €50million to support tourism development \nafter the tsunami. According to the ECD in Colombo, there was no co-ordination between EIB and ECD during the design stage for the loans. Only after ECD reported on indications of misuse of money to EIB were some consultations were held. Overall co-ordination between EIB and ECD is very limited.\n\n"}
{"id": "394985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=394985", "title": "Rafic Hariri", "text": "Rafic Hariri\n\nRafic Baha El Deen Al Hariri (; 1 November 1944 – 14 February 2005) was a Lebanese business tycoon and the Prime Minister of Lebanon from 1992 to 1998 and again from 2000 until his resignation on .\n\nHe headed five cabinets during his tenure. Hariri dominated the country's post-war political and business life and is widely credited with reconstructing the capital Beirut after the 15-year civil war.\nHariri was assassinated on 14 February 2005 by a suicide truck bomb in Beirut. Four Hezbollah members were indicted for the assassination and are currently being tried \"in absentia\" by the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, but others have linked the assassination to the Syrian government.\nHariri's assassination was a catalyst for dramatic political change in Lebanon. The massive protests of the Cedar Revolution helped achieve the withdrawal of Syrian troops and security forces from Lebanon, and a change in governments.\n\nHariri was born on 1 November 1944 to a modest Sunni Muslim family in the Lebanese port city of Sidon. He had two siblings (brother Shafic and sister Bahia) He attended elementary and secondary school in Sidon, and graduated in business administration from Beirut Arab University.\n\nIn 1965, Hariri went to Saudi Arabia to work. There, he taught for a short period of time before shifting to the construction industry. In 1978, he gained Saudi Arabian citizenship, in addition to his Lebanese citizenship.\n\nIn 1969, Hariri established Ciconest, a small subcontracting firm, which soon went out of business. He then went in business with the French construction firm Oger for the construction of a hotel in Ta’if, Saudi Arabia, the timely construction of which earned praise from King Khaled. Hariri took over Oger, forming Saudi Oger, which became the main construction firm used by the Saudi Royal family for all their important developments. As a result, a few years after his first contract with King Khaled, Hariri had become a multi-billionaire.\nHaving accumulated his wealth, Hariri started a number of philanthropic projects, including the building of educational facilities in Lebanon. His first initiative in Lebanon was the Islamic Association for Culture and Education, which he founded in 1979. The association was later renamed the Hariri Foundation. Hariri became progressively more embroiled in politics. His appeals to the United Nations and services as an emissary to the Saudi Royal family won him international recognition on the political stage for his humanitarian efforts.\n\nIn 1982, Hariri donated $12 million to Lebanese victims of the 1978 South Lebanon conflict and helped clean up Beirut's streets with his company's money and contributed to early reconstruction efforts during lulls in the Lebanon war. Said to have heavily financed opposing militias during the war, his former deputy Najah Wakim later accused him of helping to destroy downtown Beirut in order to rebuild it again and make billions of dollars in the process. After the conflict, he acted as an envoy of the Saudi royal family to Lebanon. He laid the groundwork that led to the 1989 Taif Accord, which Saudi Arabia organised to bring the warring factions together. Taif put an end to the civil war, building goodwill for Hariri politically. While acting as the Saudi envoy to Lebanon, he spent more time in Damascus than in Beirut where he ingratiated himself with the Assad regime; he had a new presidential palace built in Damascus as a gift to the Syrian dictator but Assad didn't use it personally.\n\nHariri returned to Lebanon in the early 1980s as a wealthy man and began to build a name for himself by making large donations and contributions to various groups in Lebanon. However, he continued to serve as a political advisor to Prince Bandar bin Sultan in 1983. He was implanted as the Saudis' strong man following the collapse of the PLO and the paucity of any viable Sunni leadership in the country as well as a response to the rising power of the Shiite militia Amal. As a former Saudi diplomatic representative, he played a significant role in constructing the 1990 Taif Agreement that ended Lebanon's sixteen-year civil war. In 1992, Hariri became the first post-civil war prime minister of Lebanon under president Elias Hrawi. Hariri put the country back on the financial map through the issuing of Eurobonds and won plaudits from the World Bank for his plan to borrow reconstruction money as the country's debt grew to become the largest per capita in the world. His first premiership lasted until 1998, and Hariri was replaced by Salim Hoss as prime minister. In fact, as a result of the power struggle between Hariri and newly elected president Émile Lahoud, he left office.\n\nIn October 2000, Hariri was again appointed prime minister, replacing Salim Hoss, and formed the cabinet. In September 2004, Hariri defended UN Security Council Resolution 1559, which called for \"all remaining foreign forces to withdraw from Lebanon.\" On 20 October 2004, his second term ended when he resigned from office. Omar Karami succeeded him as prime minister.\n\nHariri implemented an aggressive new economic policy. Perhaps Hariri's most important creation in the beginning of his career was \"Horizon 2000\" the government's name for its new rejuvenation plan. A large component of \"Horizon 2000\" was Solidere, the privately owned construction company that was established to reconstruct post-war Lebanon. Solidere was owned by the government and private investors. Solidere was largely focused on redeveloping Beirut's downtown and turning it into a new urban center as quickly as possible as one aspect of the various infrastructure redevelopment plans that would be implemented by \"Horizon 2000\". Another aspect of the decade-long plan was the privatization of major industries. Numerous contracts were awarded in important industries such as energy, telecommunications, electricity, airports and roads.\n\nThe last and perhaps most significant aspect of \"Horizon 2000\" was economic stimulus via foreign direct investment. Specifically, Hariri supported foreign firms and individuals taking an interest in Lebanon's developmental potential. Hariri simplified tax codes and provided tax breaks to foreign investors. Due to his previous successes in the private sector and the numerous resulting international connections, Hariri was able to garner a significant amount of low-interest loans from foreign investors. Hariri also pursued aggressive macroeconomic policy such as maintaining strict regulations on bank reserves and inter-bank interest rates to curb inflation and raise the value of the Lebanese pound relative to the dollar.\n\nHariri's economic policies were a remarkable success during his first year in office. From 1992 to 1993 there was a 6 percent increase in real national income, the capital base of commercial banks effectively doubled, the budgetary earnings hovered at around a billion dollars, and commercial banks’ consolidated balance sheets increased about 25%. By 1998, however, real GDP growth was around 1%, a year later it would be -1%, national debt had skyrocketed 540% from two to eighteen billion dollars, Lebanon's economy was in a miserable state.\n\nAmid the political crisis brought on by the extension of President Émile Lahoud's term, Hariri resigned as Prime Minister, saying: \"I have... submitted the resignation of the government, and I have declared that I will not be a candidate to head the (next) government.\"\n\nDuring a BBC interview in 2001, Harīrī was asked by Tim Sebastian why he refused to hand over members of Hezbollah that were accused by America of being terrorists. He responded that Hezbollah were the ones protecting Lebanon against the Israeli occupation and called for implementation of passed United Nations resolutions against Israel. He was further accused of making the American coalition in the war on terrorism worthless and asked if he was ready for the consequences of his refusal, reminding him that George W. Bush had said: \"Either you are with us, or you are with the terrorists.\" He replied that he had hoped there would be no consequences, but would deal with them if they arrive. Hariri further said that he opposed the killing of all humans – Israeli, Palestinian, Syrian or Lebanese – and believed in dialogue as a solution. He further went on to say that Syria would have to stay in Lebanon for protection of Lebanon until they are no longer needed and Lebanon asks them to leave.\n\nLebanese Druze leader Walid Jumblatt, a recent recruit of the anti-Syrian opposition, emboldened by popular anger and civic action now being called Lebanon's Cedar Revolution, alleged in the wake of the assassination that on 26 August 2004 Syrian President Bashar al-Assad threatened Hariri, saying \"<nowiki>[</nowiki>President of Lebanon<nowiki>]</nowiki> Lahoud is me. ... If you and Chirac want me out of Lebanon, I will break Lebanon.\" He was quoted as saying \"When I heard him telling us those words, I knew that it was his condemnation of death.\" This meeting between Hariri and Assad, which had been on 26 August 2004, lasted for just fifteen minutes.\n\nOn 22 June 2005, Beirut International Airport was renamed Rafic Hariri International Airport. Additionally, Beirut General University hospital was renamed Rafiq Hariri Hospital. Rafic Hariri was succeeded by his son Saad Hariri as leader of the Future Party.\n\nHariri was considered as the principal actor in the widespread corruption that plagued Lebanon during the Syrian occupation. His wealth grew from less than $1 billion when he was appointed prime minister in 1992, to over $16 billion when he died. The Company for the Development and Reconstruction of Beirut's Central District, known as Solidere, in which Hariri is the primary shareholder, expropriated most property in the central business district of Beirut, compensating each owner with shares in the company, were worth as little as 15% of the property's value. That Hariri and his business associates profited immensely from this project was an open secret.\n\nHariri and his protégés were not the only beneficiaries of this spending spree. In order to secure support from militia chieftains, and pro-Syrian ideologues that Damascus had installed in the government, Hariri allowed kickbacks from public spending to enrich all major government figures. Contracts for the import of petroleum were awarded to the two sons of President Elias Hrawi. \n\nAs result of the growing criticism and popular discontent with Hariri's policies, the government banned public demonstrations in 1994 and relied upon the Army to enforce the decree. In return for a relatively free hand in economic matters, Hariri cooperated with Syria's drive to consolidate its control over Lebanon. Under the guise of \"regulating\" the audiovisual media, the government placed control of all major television and radio stations in the hands of pro-Syrian elites. Supporters of Michel Aoun were also perpetually harassed and detained.\n\nHariri married twice. He had seven children. In 1965, he married an Iraqi woman, Nidal Bustani, who is the mother of his three sons; Bahaa (born 1967), who is a businessman, Saad, who succeeded his father as leader of the future movement, and Houssam—who died in a traffic accident in the US in the late 1980s. They divorced. He married his second spouse, Nazik Audi, in 1976 and she is the mother of four of Hariri's children, including Ayman Hariri, Fahd Hariri and Hind Hariri.\n\nFrom 1982 until his death Hariri owned 2–8a Rutland Gate a large house in London's Knightsbridge district. The house was gifted to the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Sultan bin Abdulaziz, after Hariri's assassination.\n\nOn 14 February 2005, Hariri was killed when explosives equivalent to around of TNT concealed inside a parked Mitsubishi van were detonated as his motorcade drove near the St. George Hotel in Beirut. Another 22 people lost their lives in the explosion. Among the dead were several of Hariri's bodyguards and his friend and former Minister of the Economy Bassel Fleihan. Hariri was buried along with his bodyguards, who died in the bombing, in a location near Mohammad Al-Amin Mosque.\n\nA 2006 report by Serge Brammertz indicated that DNA evidence collected from the crime scene suggests that the assassination might be the act of a young male suicide bomber.\n\nIn its first two reports in 2014, the United Nations International Independent Investigation Commission indicated that the Syrian government may be linked to the assassination. Lawyers tasked with prosecuting those responsible for the 2005 bombing said they had received evidence linking Bashar Assad's phone to the case. In its tenth report, the UNIIIC concluded “that a network of individuals acted in concert to carry out the assassination of Rafiq Hariri.”\n\nA Canadian Broadcasting Corporation news investigation claimed that the special UN investigation team had found evidence for the responsibility of Hezbollah in the assassination. A UN-backed tribunal issued four arrest warrants to members of Hezbollah.\n\nHezbollah blamed the assassination on Israel.\n\nAlleged Hezbollah supporters Salim Jamil Ayyash, Hassan Habib Merhi, Hussein Hassan Oneissi, and Assad Hassan Sabra have been indicted for the assassination and are currently being tried \"in absentia\" by the Special Tribunal for Lebanon.\n\nHariri was well regarded among international leaders, for example, he was a close friend of French President Jacques Chirac. Chirac was one of the first foreign dignitaries to offer condolences to Hariri's widow in person at her home in Beirut. The Special Tribunal for Lebanon was also created at his instigation. Syria was initially accused of the assassination, which led to the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon following widespread protests.\n\nMajor General Jamil Al Sayyed, then head of Lebanese General Security, Brigadier General Mustafa Hamdan, Major General Ali Hajj and Brigadier General Raymond Azar were all arrested in August 2005 at the request of German prosecutor Detlev Mehlis, who was carrying out the UN investigation about the assassination. Sayyed was one of the persons who decided to assassinate Rafik Hariri according to a leaked draft version of the Mehlis report along with other Syrian high-rank intelligence and security officers and officials, namely Assef Shawkat, Maher Assad, Hassan Khalil and Bahjat Suleyman. However, later reports about the assassination did not repeat the allegations against Jamil Al Sayyed and other three Lebanese generals. Four Lebanese generals were held in Roumieh prison, northeast of Beirut from 2005 to 2009. They were released from the prison due to lack of evidence in 2009.\n\nFollowing Hariri's death, there were several other bombings and assassinations against minor anti-Syrian figures. These included Samir Kassir, George Hawi, Gebran Tueni, Pierre Amine Gemayel, Antoine Ghanem and Walid Eido. Assassination attempts were made on Elias Murr, May Chidiac, and Samir Shehade (who was investigating Hariri's death).\n\nAn indictment against alleged Hezbollah members Salim Jamil Ayyash, Mustafa Amine Badreddine, Hussein Hassan Oneissi, and Assad Hassan Sabra was issued and confirmed by the Pre-Trial Judge of the United Nations special tribunal (see Special Tribunal for Lebanon) in 2011. In February 2014, the case against Hassan Habib Merhi was joined with the \"Ayyash et al.\" case. Proceedings against the accused Mustafa Badreddine were terminated in July 2016 following credible reports of his death. Salim Jamil Ayyash, Hassan Habib Merhi, Hussein Hassan Oneissi, and Assad Hassan Sabra currently remain on trial \"in absentia\".\nHezbollah accused Israel of the assassination of Hariri. According to Hezbollah officials, the assassination of Hariri was planned by the Mossad as a means of expelling the Syrian army from Lebanon. In August 2010, Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah presented evidence, consisting of intercepted Israeli spy-drone video footage, which he said implicated Israel in the assassination of Hariri. After an altercation between male Tribunal staff and women at a gynecology clinic in October 2010, Hezbollah demanded that the Lebanese government stop all cooperation with the Special Tribunal, claiming the tribunal to be an infringement on Lebanese sovereignty by western governments. On 1 November 2010, a report was leaked by \"Al Akhbar\", a local secular, leftist newspaper, stating that Hezbollah drafted plans for a quick takeover of the country in the case an indictment against its members is issued by the UN Special Tribunal. The report states that Hezbollah conducted a simulation of the plan on 28 October, immediately following a speech by its secretary general.\n\nOn the other side, it was revealed by leaked US embassy cables that then Egyptian General Intelligence Directorate director Omar Suleiman reported that Syria \"desperately\" wanted to stop the investigation of the Tribunal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21711483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21711483", "title": "Real-time enterprise", "text": "Real-time enterprise\n\nReal-time enterprise (commonly abbreviated to RTE) is a concept in business systems design focused on ensuring organisational responsiveness that was popularised in the first decade of the 21st century. It is also referred to as on-demand enterprise. Such an enterprise must be able to fulfill orders as soon as they are needed.\n\nThough not particularly well defined, generally accepted goals of an RTE include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10502079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10502079", "title": "Robert L. Genillard", "text": "Robert L. Genillard\n\nRobert L. Genillard, (15 June 1929 – 18 September 2016), was a Swiss businessman. His activities spanned both the fields of finance and industry. After graduate studies in economics and finance, he started a financial career in New York City. In 1954, he joined White Weld & Co., one of the oldest and leading American investment banking firms, acquired by Merrill Lynch in 1977. He became a general partner of White, Weld & Co.in 1958 and a member of its Management Committee in 1964. He moved to Europe to establish in the early 1960s, as chairman and chief executive, the firm of Credit Suisse White Weld which was to become Credit Suisse First Boston.\n\nGenillard was born in born in Lausanne in 1929 He is regarded as one of the main architects and developers of the Eurocapital market( Eurobond) in which the firm he led played a dominant role. His professional writings and accomplishments have been widely published.\n\nHe forecast that the Eurobond market would become the Supranational Capital market. This was again demonstrated in 2016 when an international syndicate of Banks floated a $42billion issue of bonds for Anheuser Bush Inbev. A private company, for which they received $112billion in subscritions. No single Capital market could have competed. \n\nDuring the last twenty years, Genillard has also been quite active in industry, notably with ties to the Thyssen-Bornemisza Group, an industrial employing some 20.000 people worldwide at the time, having led the parent company, TBG Holdings N.V. as its Chief Executive from 1977 to 1983, and having served as Deputy Chairman of its Supervisory Board between 1971 and 1994.\nSince 1983, his principal activity has been as an independent corporate director and investor. He has served as a director or advisor on the boards of various companies of international significance, among which Alusuisse (Vice-Chairman), American Express \nCompany, Cabot Corporation International Board, Clariden Bank ( Later Clariden Leu) (Founder-Chairman – Honorary Chairman), Compagnie des Machines Bull, Credit Suisse Group (Vice-Chairman), Credit Suisse[2] (Vice-Chairman), Credit Suisse First Boston (Vice-Chairman), Corning Inc. (now Director Emeritus), Honeywell International, Novartis, and Société des Bains de Mer (SBM). Geinllard died on 18 September 2016 at the age of 87.\n\n"}
{"id": "52503610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52503610", "title": "Shim Sang-ho", "text": "Shim Sang-ho\n\nShim Sang-ho () is a South Korean businessman. He served as an elected volunteer member of the Asia-Pacific Regional Scout Committee of the World Organization of the Scout Movement (WOSM) from 2009 to 2015, chairperson of the Young Adult Members Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "1175317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1175317", "title": "Solomon Loeb", "text": "Solomon Loeb\n\nSolomon Loeb (June 29, 1828 – December 12, 1903) was a German-born American banker and businessman. He was a merchant in textiles and later a banker with Kuhn, Loeb & Co.\n\nHis father, a devout Jew, had been a small corn- and wine-dealer in Worms, which belonged to the Grand Duchy of Hesse and by Rhine. Solomon Loeb immigrated to the United States in 1849. He settled in Cincinnati with the textiles merchant Kuhn, Netter & Co. He moved to New York City in 1865 and with his partner, Abraham Kuhn, started the banking house of Kuhn, Loeb and Co. His second born son, James Loeb, joined the bank in 1888 (and left in 1901). Solomon Loeb gradually retired from running the business but left Kuhn, Loeb & Co. only in 1899. He then started to move into the real estate business. In addition, he was also a generous philanthropist.\n\nAmong his donations was the Hebrew Charities Building that formerly stood at Second Avenue and 21st Street in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "7269619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7269619", "title": "Strike suit", "text": "Strike suit\n\nA strike suit is a lawsuit brought by a single person or group of people with the purpose of gaining a private settlement before going to court that would be less than the cost of the defendant's legal costs. Such suits frequently appear where the defendant is a considerably larger entity than the plaintiff, such as a corporation or an estate.\n\nCompany shareholders sometimes use strike suits as a means of addressing perceived failures by or discontentment with the company while avoiding becoming embroiled in litigation themselves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6370971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6370971", "title": "Ted London", "text": "Ted London\n\nTed London is an American scholar and teacher on Base of the Pyramid (BoP) issues. He is vice president of the Scaling Impact Initiative and a senior research fellow at the William Davidson Institute (WDI) at the University of Michigan and is also on the faculty at the Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan. London focuses his research and practice on developing enterprise strategies for BoP markets, building cross-sector collaborations, and enhancing mutual value creation. His latest book, \"The Base of the Pyramid Promise\", was released in early 2016. Prior to the University of Michigan, London was at the University of North Carolina, where he received his PhD in strategic management. He has also held senior management positions in the private, non-profit, and development sectors in Africa, Asia and the U.S.\n\nLondon is vice president of the Scaling Impact Initiative and a senior research fellow at the William Davidson Institute. The Scaling Impact Initiative champions innovative ways of thinking about building better enterprises for BoP markets, with a particular focus on developing strategies and frameworks that enable enterprise leaders better navigate the journey to sustainability at scale.\n\nLondon received his PhD in strategic management from the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC). He was also an assistant professor of entrepreneurship, teaching strategic management, international business and poverty alleviation, and sustainable enterprise at UNC.\n\nAt UNC, London was the director of the BoP Learning Laboratory a consortium of companies, nonprofit organizations, multilateral institutions and academics that explores the opportunities and challenges associated with entering Base of the Pyramid markets.\n\nLondon’s research interests center on business and development strategies in low income markets, assessment of poverty alleviation impacts, and capability development for cross-sector collaborations. He has received awards and recognition for his research, teaching, and case writing, including winning the oikos Sustainability Case Writing Competition in 2005 and 2008, the Page Prize in 2011, the Samsung Best Paper Award in 2010, and the Doug Nigh Award in 2010.\n\nLondon’s work has been published in a number of academic and practitioner journals, and he has written several book chapters.\n\nIn May 2009, the Harvard Business Review published London's paper entitled \"Making Better Investments at the Base of the Pyramid\". The article introduces London's Base of the Pyramid Impact Assessment Framework, a tool used to explore how ventures influence the well-being of local buyers, sellers, and communities. The Impact Assessment Framework guides managers through a detailed look at an organization's effects on those constituencies in three areas: economics, capabilities, and relationships.\n\nIn late 2010, \"Next Generation Business Strategies for the Base of the Pyramid: New Approaches for Building Mutual Value\" was published. Co-editors, London and Stuart L. Hart, along with nine other leading BoP thought and practice leaders, focus on second-generation BoP innovations, techniques and business models that create value with the BoP. They identify ways to conceptualize opportunities, create sustainable business ecosystems, design new technologies with BoP in mind, and even transform entire sectors through collaborative entrepreneurship.\n\nIn 2012, WDI team members London and Ravi Anupindi published an article entitled \"Using the base-of-the-pyramid perspective to catalyze interdependence-based collaborations.\" This article argues that in order for both donor- and enterprise-led value chain initiatives to be both scalable and sustainable, a BoP perspective must be taken so that development and business efforts are better integrated. The article’s research was funded by USAID and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\nIn 2015, London wrote a book entitled \"The Base of the Pyramid Promise\", which was published in early 2016.\n\nLondon also has consulted for a variety of companies, non-profit organizations, and multilateral institutions in Africa, Asia, Latin America, Europe, and the U.S.. This has involved exploring entry into base of the pyramid markets, examining cross-sector alliances between companies and non-profit organizations, and assessing poverty alleviation implications of BoP ventures. He also serves on advisory boards for VisionSpring (formerly Scojo Foundation), NextBillion, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the Sasakawa Peace Foundation.\n\nLondon was a design engineer for General Motors after graduating from Lehigh University in 1985 with a BS in Mechanical Engineering. A few years later he received his MBA from the Peter Drucker Graduate Management Center at Claremont Graduate University and went to work for Deloitte, Haskins & Sells as a senior consultant in business valuation.\n\nIn 1989 London joined the Peace Corps in Africa and co-managed a regional business development program in Malawi. Three years later, he was in Asia serving as general manager for an Indonesian joint venture operated by McCormick Spices.\n\nIn 1993, London served as a director of a multi-country initiative in the Asia/Pacific Region that linked income generation and environmental protection for Conservation International.\n\nThree years later, London became executive director of a non-profit providing business development services to companies in Northern Virginia before pursuing his PhD at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8262216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8262216", "title": "The Catey Awards", "text": "The Catey Awards\n\nThe Cateys are a UK award ceremony for the hospitality industry, first held in 1984. They have been described as the hospitality industry's equivalent of the Oscars. \nRecipients are nominated, selected and awarded by the industry through The Caterer magazine.\n\nThe Chef Award is one of the most coveted and previous winners include Claude Bosi in 2018, Tom Kerridge in 2017, Jason Atherton in 2012, Angela Hartnett in 2009, Heston Blumenthal in 2004, Gordon Ramsay in 2000, Brian Turner in 1997 and Raymond Blanc in 1990.\n\nNovember 2007 saw the first spin-off event, The Hotel Cateys, which took place at the London Hilton on Park Lane, with Grant Hearn, CEO of Travelodge, taking the inaugural Outstanding Contribution to the Industry Award.\n\nThe Foodservice Cateys launched in 2013 at Park Plaza Westminster Bridge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26120820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26120820", "title": "Uriel Lynn", "text": "Uriel Lynn\n\nUriel Lynn (, born 2 April 1935) is an Israeli lawyer, former civil servant and politician. Currently president of the Federation of the Israeli Chambers of Commerce and the Tel Aviv and Central Israel Chamber of Commerce, he served as a member of the Knesset for Likud between 1984 and 1992.\n\nLynn was born Uriel Asulin in Jerusalem during the Mandate era. His father, Yehonatan Asulin was from Morocco, while his mother, Margalit Hazan, was born in Palestine. His grandfather, rabbi Ben-Zion Mordechai Hazan, was one of the founders of the Porat Yosef Yeshiva in Jerusalem, and officially handed over the Old City of Jerusalem to the Jordanians during the Israeli surrender there in the 1948 Arab-Israeli War. Lynn attended the Nautical School in Haifa. He served in the 7th Armored Brigade of the Israel Defense Forces, and fought as a reservist in the Suez Crisis, Six-Day War, and Yom Kippur War. and afterwards studied law at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and University of California, Berkeley, earning an LLM from both universities. He was certified as a lawyer devoting two years in litigation of cases related to traffic accidents and from 1965 until 1970 worked as secretary and legal advisor at the ATA textile company.\n\nBetween 1969 and 1971 he worked as deputy general manager at Isranyl, a textile factory, which later on was transformed to Jerusalem Jersey Textile where he continued working as managing director between 1972 and 1979.\n\nIn 1973 Lynn joined the Liberal Party, which was part of the Likud alliance. He was placed 56th on the Likud list for the 1977 Knesset elections, but failed to win a seat. In 1978, following Likud's election victory, Lynn became a civil servant after being appointed Director of the North American Investment Authority. In 1982 he became Director General of the Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure.\n\nIn 1984 Lynn was elected to the Knesset on the Likud list. He was appointed chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy and of the Subcommittee for Road Safety, and also chaired the Parliamentary Inquiry Committee for Traffic Accidents.\n\nHe was re-elected in the 1988 elections after being placed 23rd on the Likud list. In his second term in the Knesset he chaired the Constitution, Law and Justice Committee till 1992.\n\nIn 1992 he decided not to run again as candidate to the Israeli Knesset, and established again his own law firm, specializing in arbitration and government.\n\nAt the end of 2002 he was elected President of the Tel Aviv & Central Israel Chamber of Commerce and of the Federation of Israeli Chambers of Commerce. He also became a member of the board of the Eurochambres and was elected a member of the council of the World Chambers Federation (WCF), a worldwide organization of National Chambers of Commerce.\n"}
{"id": "5192149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5192149", "title": "Vaughan Metropolitan Centre", "text": "Vaughan Metropolitan Centre\n\nVaughan Metropolitan Centre is the central business district, currently being developed at the intersection of Highway 400 and Highway 7, in Vaughan, Ontario, Canada, in the area often seen as being part of the historic communities of either Edgeley or Concord. It is served by the Vaughan Metropolitan Centre subway station, which is the northern terminus of the western leg of Line 1 Yonge–University of the Toronto subway system, which connects to York Region Transit (YRT) and Viva bus rapid transit services.\n\nIn the summer of 2009, Vaughan's city council announced that they wanted public submissions to suggest a new name for Vaughan's new downtown core. At the time, it was known as \"Vaughan Corporate Centre\", but the name change was suggested so that the name would \"better reflect the true vision and future of this key hub\". Nearly 1,600 entries were submitted; the subcommittee (chaired by Ward 4 Councillor Sandra Yeung Racco) decided on the name of \"Vaughan Metropolitan Centre\" for the area.\n\nMitch Goldhar has owned the 100-acre site since the mid-1990s; 40 acres of it are now owned by developers Rudy Bratty and Silvio DeGasperis, and the remainder by Goldhar’s firms, including SmartCentres. Prominent businesses having property in the Centre include Toromont, Wal-Mart, AMC Theatres, Lowe's, and Future Shop. Sam's Club had been located there before it closed down in March 2009. Two hotels operated by Marriott and one by Hilton, are also located at the Centre, as well as a Monte Carlo Inn. The core of the centre is approximately 1 km long (west to east) and 400m wide (north to south), although the plans for the Centre also include lands immediately outside this core zone.\n\n \n\nVaughan plans to build a city centre from scratch around the Vaughan Metropolitan Centre subway station in a 179 hectare site that prior to the station's opening was low density featuring big box stores such as Walmart. By 2012, the city had already purchased land around VMC Station for development. Vaughan projects that by 2031, the new downtown will have 25,000 residents and employment for more than 11,000 people.\n\nAs of 2012, proposed developments at VMC include the five-building, 37-storey Expo City condos, and Liberty Developments' proposed office building plus four condo buildings on the south corner of Jane Street and Highway 7.\n\nPino DiMascio, an urban planner who helped create the official plan for Vaughan, said that the new city centre would need cultural spaces, retail, civic spaces and green space to be successful in attracting people to take the subway north to Vaughan as relying on just condos and office buildings that is claimed to have failed to make North York Centre a success.\n\nTwo traffic circles will be constructed on Highway 7 at Commerce Street and Maplecrete Road; these will intersect a ring road that will represent the border of this core. Parts of this ring road already exist as Commerce Street, and portions of Doughton Road, Maplecrete Road, and Applemill Road. The new Vaughan Metropolitan Centre TTC subway station is located at the intersection of Highway 7 and Millway Avenue at the centre of the core. Inside the core, the average block will be 100m by 100m (330 ft. by 330 ft.). Thus the theoretical maximum number of blocks is 40, but the Black Creek Valley and the non-perpendicular Jane Street will lower that number somewhat.\n\nThese blocks will be separated by small roads, alleys, or pedestrian walkways. One of the first buildings built with the small block size taken into account was the two-storey Future Shop, which has since closed. At ground level, this building has small shop-sized units facing Highway 7 and Millway Drive that are currently vacant.\n\nIn late 2015, a community website was launched in an effort to raise awareness, provide resources, engage members of the community, and highlight the progress of the Vaughan Metro Centre development.\n\nFurther details of the City of Vaughan's plans for expansion and development are included as part of the council's secondary plan.\n\nVMC is served by both York Region Transit (YRT) and Brampton Transit buses, and the Toronto Transit Commission (TTC) subway.\n\nVaughan Metropolitan Centre station is located at the intersection of Highway 7 and Millway Avenue, just west of Jane Street. It is the northwestern terminus of Line 1 Yonge-University. The area is also served by YRT (which includes Viva) and Brampton Transit's Züm buses on Highway 7 and Jane Street. Viva and 501 Züm Queen buses travel along the Highway 7 Rapidway, which features a covered Vivastation in its centre for transferring to the subway. Conventional YRT buses currently connect with the station on-street, but will (with the exception of Route 77) be moved to the under-construction SmartCentres Place Bus Terminal upon its completion.\n\nThe subway station is part of the TTC Toronto fare zone and no extra fare is charged to enter and exit. However, there are no free transfers to and from the subway and YRT or Züm buses, and the appropriate system's fare is charged when transferring.\n"}
{"id": "30983977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30983977", "title": "William Brownie Garden", "text": "William Brownie Garden\n\nWilliam Brownie Garden (December 2, 1869 – 1960) was a Scottish inventor and entrepreneur. He is probably best known for his invention of the \"revolving blackboard\". Up until his death at age 90, in 1960, the ‘Inventor’ still worked at his own bench in the factory, from which came innovations like an improved saw which cut ten times quicker than any other, and an eight-wheeled car for faster cornering. For relaxation he produced scores of beautifully carved walking sticks, which he presented free to the older townspeople. His mind roamed the entire mechanical firmament. He was a dreamer with the most practical of brains, who, even in his youth, foresaw the future by drawing tentative plans for a vertical take-off aero engine.\n\n‘Wullie Gairden’ as he was known locally had six children, two sons and four daughters of which two sons William and John and daughter Mary joined the firm. As well as being a Master Joiner he was a genius for invention.\n\nWilliam Brownie Garden was a Master Joiner and in 1904 he set up his own joinery business. His company, Wilson & Garden, Ltd., was founded in Kilsyth, Scotland. The main product was the rollerboard.\n\nWilson & Garden became a limited company in 1923 as ‘Builders and Joiners’. At this time they were also the local undertakers. As the demand for the roller boards increased in the early 1950s the focus of the company switched from property building to the manufacture of the roller boards and by the late 1950s the building side ceased altogether.\n\nThe company was taken over by Ultralon Holdings in 2005. In 2008 the company became Spaceright Europe, Ltd.\n\nIn 1955 he decided that cars didn’t need a clutch, a gear lever, or brakes, and took out a provisional patent on what he described as his ‘Infinitely variable gear Box’. Motor engineers, who checked the plans, pronounced the invention foolproof and gave their opinion that it could be mass-produced quite cheaply.\n\nThe method was that, on the movement of a lever, the car would glide away from rest to full speed. Moving the lever back would bring the car to a halt, the engine acting as a brake; the lever moved further back would put the car in reverse.\n\nAt one time he set his mind to the problem of combating the hazards of driving on icy roads, and patented a device to make vehicles skid proof. It was fitted to one of the firm’s Lorries and tried out on the severest of days. It was a complete success, the vehicle just refused to lose adhesion, but having proved his point, his interest waned and the project wasn’t pursued. Having successfully solved one problem, he couldn’t wait to get to the next.\n\nAround 1929 another of his inventions was the ‘Totalisator’ for racetracks. This ‘Tote’ was an automatic system for registering bets, and working out the odds on winners according to the extent to which they have been backed. Tickets for bets in variable amounts are issued, and after percentage deductions for expenses, the total sum received is divided among the backers of winning or placed horses, in accordance with the odds offered.\n\nPerhaps his most practical invention was the Revolving Surface Writing Board, or rollerboard, in 1911.\n\nOriginally instigated by Mr. McCubbin the rector of Kilsyth Academy, who had drawn ‘Wullie Gairden’s attention to the limitations of the old slate blackboard with its necessity for constant cleaning. Small teachers had to stand on boxes to reach the top of the slate board and tall teachers had to stoop to reach the bottom of the board. “Couldn’t you do something about that?” he asked, and the challenge was enough for him.\n\nUsing the roller towel principle, and substituting a specially treated fabric for slate, the first of the now internationally known revolving boards was created. The original prototype is still in use today.\n\nThe largest board of all is in Oxford University in the Clarendon Laboratory, a giant over 20 feet high.\n"}
{"id": "4226548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4226548", "title": "Wilson Lee Flores", "text": "Wilson Lee Flores\n\nWilson Lee Flores is a multi-awarded writer, college professor, real estate entrepreneur, economics and geopolitics analyst, baker, art collector, poet and public speaker. \n\nIn December 2013, he bought the pioneer, artisanal Kamuning Bakery Cafe of Quezon City and revived it starting January 2014. \n\nHe has won a record 15 Catholic Mass Media Awards (CMMA) for his Philippine Star newspaper columns and three Don Carlos Palanca Memorial Awards for Literature. He has also been honored with a record three CMMA Hall of Fame Awards, including CMMA Hall of Fame Awards for \"Best Opinion Column\" and \"Best Business Column\". He also writes a Tagalog or Filipino-language column \"Kuwentong Panadero\" for Philippine Star Group's mass-market Pilipino Star Ngayon tabloid every Friday.\n"}
{"id": "16757111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16757111", "title": "Work rule", "text": "Work rule\n\nA work rule is a negotiated stipulation in a labor contract that limits the conditions under which management may direct the performance of labor.\n"}
