{"id": "11500325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11500325", "title": "Amy's Law (Georgia)", "text": "Amy's Law (Georgia)\n\nAmy's Law is a Georgia state law passed in response to outrage generated when a twelve-year-old boy convicted of murdering Amy Yates was sentenced to two years in juvenile prison, the maximum penalty allowed for minors in Georgia at the time. Unanimously passed by the Georgia Senate in 2006, Amy's Law permits sentencing juveniles to incarceration until age 21 if convicted of murder.\n\nOn April 26, 2004, eight-year-old Amy Yates went missing while riding her bike around her trailer park in Carrollton, Georgia. Her body was found later that evening at the bottom of a nearby hill, and the heavy bruising on her chest and neck areas indicated that she had been strangled to death.\n\nThe day after Amy was found, police summoned a few boys from Amy's neighborhood, including Johnathon Adams, for questioning. Without a parent or lawyer present, Adams was interrogated for more than two and a half hours, during which time he confessed to accidentally killing Amy. When the police allowed Adams' parents to speak with him after his confession, however, Adams retracted the confession. Despite accusations of police coercion, a judge ruled that Adams' statement could be used as evidence in court. Adams was held in juvenile detention until his murder conviction in 2005, at which point he was moved to a rehabilitation center.\n\nNearly two years after the crime, Chris Gossett, a mentally disabled teenager, confessed to killing Amy, though Gossett later retracted his statement. As of October 2006, Gossett was not charged in connection to the Yates case. Despite resistance from police and the prosecution, who claimed they got it right the first time, both a grand jury and a judge investigating the case eventually ruled to exonerate Adams and indict Gossett on manslaughter charges. However, the charges against Gossett were formally dropped in 2010.\n\nThomas Yates, the victim's father who originally championed Adams' guilt and lobbied for stricter sentences against minors convicted of murder, later criticized the way the police and prosecution had handled the case. In an interview, Yates stated that \"[t]he case was botched from day one. All the valuable evidence that could have been gathered was lost in the beginning. Our hopes of ever getting justice for our daughter — I don’t see any hope for that.” As of July 2017, the case remains unsolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "18933396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18933396", "title": "Augusto Pinochet", "text": "Augusto Pinochet\n\nAugusto José Ramón Pinochet Ugarte (; ; 25 November 1915 – 10 December 2006) was a Chilean general, politician and the US-backed dictator of Chile between 1973 and 1990 who remained the Commander-in-Chief of the Chilean Army until 1998 and was also President of the Government Junta of Chile between 1973 and 1981.\nPinochet assumed power in Chile following a United States-backed coup d'état on 11 September 1973 that overthrew the democratically elected socialist Unidad Popular government of President Salvador Allende and ended civilian rule. Several academics – including Peter Winn, Peter Kornbluh and Tim Weiner – have stated that the support of the United States was crucial to the coup and the consolidation of power afterward. Pinochet had been promoted to Commander-in-Chief of the Army by Allende on 23 August 1973, having been its General Chief of Staff since early 1972. In December 1974, the ruling military junta appointed Pinochet Supreme Head of the nation by joint decree, although without the support of one of the coup's instigators, Air Force General Gustavo Leigh. Following his rise to power, Pinochet persecuted leftists, socialists, and political critics, resulting in the executions of from 1,200 to 3,200 people, the internment of as many as 80,000 people and the torture of tens of thousands. According to the Chilean government, the number of executions and forced disappearances was 3,095.\n\nUnder the influence of the free market-oriented neoliberal \"Chicago Boys\", Pinochet's military government implemented economic liberalization, including currency stabilization, removed tariff protections for local industry, banned trade unions and privatized social security and hundreds of state-owned enterprises. These policies produced what has been referred to as the \"Miracle of Chile\" by Nobel prize winning economist Milton Friedman, but critics state that economic inequality dramatically increased and attribute the devastating effects of the 1982 monetary crisis on the Chilean economy to these policies. For most of the 1990s, Chile was the best-performing economy in Latin America, though the legacy of Pinochet's reforms continues to be in dispute. His fortune grew considerably during his years in power through dozens of bank accounts secretly held abroad and a fortune in real estate. He was later prosecuted for embezzlement, tax fraud and for possible commissions levied on arms deals.\n\nPinochet's 17-year rule was given a legal framework through a controversial 1980 plebiscite, which approved a new constitution drafted by a government-appointed commission. In a 1988 plebiscite, 56% voted against Pinochet's continuing as President, which led to democratic elections for the presidency and Congress. After stepping down in 1990, Pinochet continued to serve as Commander-in-Chief of the Chilean Army until 10 March 1998, when he retired and became a senator-for-life in accordance with his 1980 Constitution. However, Pinochet was arrested under an international arrest warrant on a visit to London on 10 October 1998 in connection with numerous human rights violations. Following a legal battle, he was released on grounds of ill-health and returned to Chile on 3 March 2000. In 2004, Chilean Judge Juan Guzmán Tapia ruled that Pinochet was medically fit to stand trial and placed him under house arrest. By the time of his death on 10 December 2006, about 300 criminal charges were still pending against him in Chile for numerous human rights violations during his 17-year rule and tax evasion and embezzlement during and after his rule. He was also accused of having corruptly amassed at least 28 million USD. Despite the indictment and 300 charges, he only served time in house arrest.\n\nPinochet was born in Valparaíso, the son of Augusto Pinochet Vera, a descendant of an 18th-century French Breton immigrant from Lamballe, and Avelina Ugarte Martínez, a woman whose family had been in Chile since the 17th century and was of partial Basque descent. Pinochet went to primary and secondary school at the San Rafael Seminary of Valparaíso, the Rafael Ariztía Institute (Marist Brothers) in Quillota, the French Fathers' School of Valparaíso, and then to the Military School in Santiago, which he entered in 1931. In 1935, after four years studying military geography he graduated with the rank of \"alférez\" (Second Lieutenant) in the infantry. In September 1937, Pinochet was assigned to the \"Chacabuco\" Regiment, in Concepción. Two years later, in 1939, then with the rank of Sub-lieutenant, he moved to the \"Maipo\" Regiment, garrisoned in Valparaíso. He returned to Infantry School in 1940. On 30 January 1943, Pinochet married Lucía Hiriart Rodríguez, with whom he had five children: Inés Lucía, María Verónica, Jacqueline Marie, Augusto Osvaldo and Marco Antonio.\n\nBy late 1945, Pinochet had been assigned to the \"Carampangue\" Regiment in the northern city of Iquique. Three years later, he entered the War Academy but had to postpone his studies because, being the youngest officer, he had to carry out a service mission in the coal zone of Lota. The following year he returned to his studies in the Academy, and after obtaining the title of Officer Chief of Staff, in 1951, he returned to teach at the Military School. At the same time, he worked as a teachers' aide at the War Academy, giving military geography and geopolitics classes. He was also the editor of the institutional magazine \"Cien Águilas\" (\"One Hundred Eagles\"). At the beginning of 1953, with the rank of major, he was sent for two years to the \"Rancagua\" Regiment in Arica. While there, he was appointed professor of the Chilean War Academy, and returned to Santiago to take up his new position.\n\nIn 1956, Pinochet and a group of young officers were chosen to form a military mission to collaborate in the organization of the War Academy of Ecuador in Quito. He remained with the Quito mission for four-and-a-half years, during which time he studied geopolitics, military geography and military intelligence. At the end of 1959 he returned to Chile and was sent to General Headquarters of the 1st Army Division, based in Antofagasta. The following year, he was appointed commander of the \"Esmeralda\" Regiment. Due to his success in this position, he was appointed Sub-director of the War Academy in 1963. In 1968, he was named Chief of Staff of the 2nd Army Division, based in Santiago, and at the end of that year, he was promoted to brigadier general and Commander in Chief of the 6th Division, garrisoned in Iquique. In his new function, he was also appointed Intendent of the Tarapacá Province.\n\nIn January 1971, Pinochet was promoted to division general and was named General Commander of the Santiago Army Garrison. At the beginning of 1972, he was appointed General Chief of Staff of the Army. With rising domestic strife in Chile, after General Prats resigned his position, Pinochet was appointed commander-in-chief of the Army on 23 August 1973 by President Salvador Allende just the day after the Chamber of Deputies of Chile approved a asserting that the government was not respecting the Constitution. Less than a month later, the Chilean military deposed Allende.\n\nOn 11 September 1973, the combined Chilean Armed Forces (the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Carabineros) overthrew Allende's government in a coup, during which the presidential palace, La Moneda, was shelled and Allende committed suicide. While the military claimed that he had committed suicide, controversy surrounded Allende's death, with many claiming that he had been assassinated (theory discarded by the Chilean Supreme Court in 2014).\n\nIn his memoirs Pinochet said that he was the leading plotter of the coup and had used his position as commander-in-chief of the Army to coordinate a far-reaching scheme with the other two branches of the military and the national police. In later years, however, high military officials from the time have said that Pinochet reluctantly became involved only a few days before the coup was scheduled to occur, and followed the lead of the other branches (especially the Navy, under Merino) as they executed the coup.\n\nThe new government rounded up thousands of people and held them in the national stadium where many were killed. This was followed by brutal repression during Pinochet's rule, during which about 3,000 people were killed, and more than 1,000 are still missing.\n\nIn the months that followed the coup, the \"junta\", with authoring work by historian Gonzalo Vial and admiral Patricio Carvajal, published a book titled \"El Libro Blanco del cambio de gobierno en Chile\" (commonly known as \"El Libro Blanco\", \"The White Book on the Change of Government in Chile\"), where they said that they were in fact anticipating a self-coup (the alleged \"Plan Zeta\", or Plan Z) that Allende's government or its associates were purportedly preparing. United States intelligence agencies believed the plan to be untrue propaganda. Although later discredited and officially recognized as the product of political propaganda, Gonzalo Vial insists in the similarities between the alleged Plan Z and other existing paramilitary plans of the Popular Unity parties in support of its legitimacy.\n\nCanadian Jean Charpentier of Télévision de Radio-Canada was the first foreign journalist to interview General Pinochet following the coup.\n\nThe Church Report investigating the fallout of the Watergate scandal stated that while the U.S. tacitly supported the Pinochet government after the 1973 coup, there was \"no evidence\" that the US was directly involved in the coup. This view has been contradicted by several academics, such as Peter Winn, who writes that the role of the CIA was crucial to the consolidation of power after the coup; the CIA helped fabricate a conspiracy against the Allende government, which Pinochet was then portrayed as preventing. He stated that the coup itself was possible only through a three-year covert operation mounted by the United States. He also points out that the US imposed an \"invisible blockade\" that was designed to disrupt the economy under Allende, and contributed to the destabilization of the regime. Author Peter Kornbluh argues in his book \"The Pinochet File\" that the US was extensively involved and actively \"fomented\" the 1973 coup. Authors Tim Weiner, in his book, , and Christopher Hitchens, in his book, \"The Trial of Henry Kissinger\" similarly argue the case that US covert actions actively destabilized Allende's government and set the stage for the 1973 coup.\n\nThe U.S. provided material support to the military government after the coup, although criticizing it in public. A document released by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in 2000, titled \"CIA Activities in Chile\", revealed that the CIA actively supported the military junta after the overthrow of Allende, and that it made many of Pinochet's officers into paid contacts of the CIA or U.S. military, even though some were known to be involved in human rights abuses. The CIA also maintained contacts in the Chilean DINA intelligence service. DINA led the multinational campaign known as Operation \"Condor\", which amongst other activities carried out assassinations of prominent politicians in various Latin American countries, in Washington, D.C., and in Europe, and kidnapped, tortured and executed activists holding left-wing views, which culminated in the deaths of roughly 60,000 people. The United States provided key organizational, financial and technical assistance to the operation. CIA contact with DINA head Manuel Contreras was established in 1974 soon after the coup, during the Junta period prior to official transfer of Presidential powers to Pinochet; in 1975, the CIA reviewed a warning that keeping Contreras as an asset might threaten human rights in the region. The CIA chose to keep him as an asset, and at one point even paid him. In addition to the CIA's maintaining of assets in DINA beginning soon after the coup, several CIA assets, such as CORU Cuban exile militants Orlando Bosch and Guillermo Novo, collaborated in DINA operations under the Condor Plan in the early years of Pinochet's presidency.\n\nA military junta was established immediately following the coup, made up of General Pinochet representing the Army, Admiral José Toribio Merino representing the Navy, General Gustavo Leigh representing the Air Force, and General César Mendoza representing the \"Carabineros\" (national police). As established, the junta exercised both executive and legislative functions of the government, suspended the Constitution and the Congress, imposed strict censorship and curfew, banned all parties and halted all political and perceived subversive activities. This military junta held the executive role until 17 December 1974, after which it remained strictly as a legislative body, the executive powers being transferred to Pinochet with the title of President.\n\nThe junta members originally planned that the presidency would be held for a year by the commanders-in-chief of each of the four military branches in turn. However, Pinochet soon consolidated his control, first retaining sole chairmanship of the military junta, and then proclaiming himself \"Supreme Chief of the Nation\" (de facto provisional president) on 27 June 1974. He officially changed his title to \"President\" on 17 December 1974. General Leigh, head of the Air Force, became increasingly opposed to Pinochet's policies and was forced into retirement on 24 July 1978, after contradicting Pinochet on that year's plebiscite (officially called Consulta Nacional, or National Consultation, in response to a UN resolution condemning Pinochet's government). He was replaced by General Fernando Matthei.\n\nPinochet organized a plebiscite on 11 September 1980 to ratify a new constitution, replacing the 1925 Constitution drafted during Arturo Alessandri's presidency. The new Constitution, partly drafted by Jaime Guzmán, a close adviser to Pinochet who later founded the right-wing party Independent Democratic Union (UDI), gave a lot of power to the President of the Republic—Pinochet. It created some new institutions, such as the Constitutional Tribunal and the controversial National Security Council (COSENA). It also prescribed an 8-year presidential period, and a single-candidate presidential referendum in 1988, where a candidate nominated by the Junta would be approved or rejected for another 8-year period. The new constitution was approved by a margin of 67.04% to 30.19% according to official figures; the opposition, headed by ex-president Eduardo Frei Montalva (who had supported Pinochet's coup), denounced extensive irregularities such as the lack of an electoral register, which facilitated multiple voting, and said that the total number of votes reported to have been cast was very much larger than would be expected from the size of the electorate and turnout in previous elections. Interviews after Pinochet's departure with people involved with the referendum confirmed that fraud had, indeed, been widespread. The Constitution was promulgated on 21 October 1980, taking effect on 11 March 1981. Pinochet was replaced as President of the Junta that day by Admiral Merino.\n\nArmed opposition to the Pinochet rule continued in remote parts of the country. In a massive operation spearheaded by Chilean Army para-commandos, some 2,000 security forces troops were deployed in the mountains of Neltume from June to November 1981, where they destroyed two MIR bases, seizing large caches of munitions and killing a number of guerrillas.\n\nAccording to author Ozren Agnic Krstulovic, weapons including C-4 plastic explosives, RPG-7 and M72 LAW rocket launchers, as well as more than 3,000 M-16 rifles, were smuggled into the country by opponents of the government.\n\nIn September, weapons from the same source were used in an unsuccessful assassination attempt against Pinochet by the FPMR. His military bodyguard was taken by surprise, and five members were killed. Pinochet's bulletproof Mercedes Benz vehicle was struck by a rocket, but it failed to explode and Pinochet suffered only minor injuries.\n\nAlmost immediately after the military's seizure of power, the junta banned all the leftist parties that had constituted Allende's UP coalition.\nAll other parties were placed in \"indefinite recess\" and were later banned outright. The government's violence was directed not only against dissidents but also against their families and other civilians.\n\nThe Rettig Report concluded 2,279 persons who disappeared during the military government were killed for political reasons or as a result of political violence. According to the later Valech Report approximately 31,947 were tortured and 1,312 exiled. The exiles were chased all over the world by the intelligence agencies. In Latin America, this was made in the frame of Operation Condor, a cooperation plan between the various intelligence agencies of South American countries, assisted by a United States CIA communication base in Panama. Pinochet believed these operations were necessary in order to \"save the country from communism\". In 2011, the commission identified an additional 9,800 victims of political repression during Pinochet's rule, increasing the total number of victims to approximately 40,018, including 3,065 killed.\n\nSome political scientists have ascribed the relative bloodiness of the coup to the stability of the existing democratic system, which required extreme action to overturn. Some of the most infamous cases of human rights violation occurred during the early period: in October 1973, at least 70 people were killed throughout the country by the Caravan of Death. Charles Horman and Frank Teruggi, both US journalists, \"disappeared\", as did Víctor Olea Alegría, a member of the Socialist Party, and many others, in 1973. British priest Michael Woodward, who vanished within 10 days of the coup, was tortured and beaten to death aboard the Chilean naval ship, \"Esmeralda\".\nMany other important officials of Allende's government were tracked down by the DINA in the frame of Operation Condor. General Carlos Prats, Pinochet's predecessor and army commander under Allende, who had resigned rather than support the moves against Allende's government, was assassinated in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1974. A year later, the murder of 119 opponents abroad was disguised as an internal conflict, the DINA setting up a propaganda campaign to support this idea (Operation Colombo), a campaign publicised by the leading newspaper in Chile, El Mercurio.\n\nOther victims of Condor included, among hundreds of less famous persons, Juan José Torres, the former President of Bolivia, assassinated in Buenos Aires on 2 June 1976; Carmelo Soria, a UN diplomat working for the CEPAL, assassinated in July 1976;\nOrlando Letelier, a former Chilean ambassador to the United States and minister in Allende's cabinet, assassinated after his release from internment and exile in Washington, D.C. by a car bomb on 21 September 1976. Documents confirm that Pinochet directly ordered the assassination of Letelier. This led to strained relations with the US and to the extradition of Michael Townley, a US citizen who worked for the DINA and had organized Letelier's assassination. Other targeted victims, who escaped assassination, included Christian-Democrat Bernardo Leighton, who escaped an assassination attempt in Rome in 1975 by the Italian terrorist Stefano delle Chiaie; Carlos Altamirano, the leader of the Chilean Socialist Party, targeted for murder in 1975 by Pinochet, along with Volodia Teitelboim, member of the Communist Party; Pascal Allende, the nephew of Salvador Allende and president of the MIR, who escaped an assassination attempt in Costa Rica in March 1976; US Congressman Edward Koch, who became aware in 2001 of relations between death threats and his denunciation of Operation Condor, etc. Furthermore, according to current investigations, Eduardo Frei Montalva, the Christian Democrat President of Chile from 1964 to 1970, may have been poisoned in 1982 by toxin produced by DINA biochemist Eugenio Berrios.\n\nProtests continued, however, during the 1980s, leading to several scandals. In March 1985, the murder of three Communist Party members led to the resignation of César Mendoza, head of the Carabineros and member of the \"junta\" since its formation. During a 1986 protest against Pinochet, 21-year-old American photographer Rodrigo Rojas DeNegri and 18-year-old student Carmen Gloria Quintana were burnt alive, with only Carmen surviving.\n\nIn August 1989, Marcelo Barrios Andres, a 21-year-old member of the FPMR (the armed wing of the PCC, created in 1983, which had attempted to assassinate Pinochet on 7 September 1986), was assassinated by a group of military personnel who were supposed to arrest him on orders of Valparaíso's public prosecutor. However, they simply executed him; this case was included in the Rettig Report. Among the killed and disappeared during the military junta were 440 MIR guerrillas. In December 2015, three former DINA agents were sentenced to ten years in prison for the murder of a 29 year old theology student and activist, German Rodriguez Cortes, in 1978. That same month 62 year old Guillermo Reyes Rammsy, a former Chilean soldier during the Pinochet years, was arrested and charged with murder for boasting of participating in 18 executions during a live phone-in to the Chilean radio show \"Chacotero Sentimental.\"\n\nOn June 2, 2017, Chilean judge Hernan Cristoso sentenced 106 former Chilean intelligence officials to between 541 days and 20 years in prison for their role in the kidnapping and murder of 16 left-wing activists in 1974 and 1975.\n\nIn 1973, the Chilean economy was deeply depressed for several reasons, including the expropriation of 600 businesses by the Allende government, a tiered exchange rate that distorted markets, protectionism, and the economic sanctions imposed by the Nixon administration, inflation was high (with various accounts between 150% and 1000%), the country had no foreign reserves, and GDP was falling rapidly. By mid-1975, the government set forth an economic policy of free-market reforms that attempted to stop inflation and collapse. Pinochet declared that he wanted \"to make Chile not a nation of proletarians, but a nation of proprietors.\" To formulate the economic rescue, the government relied on the so-called Chicago Boys and a text called \"El ladrillo\".\n\nChile's nationalized main copper mines remained in government hands, with the 1980 Constitution later declaring the mines \"inalienable\". In 1976, Codelco was established to exploit them but new mineral deposits were opened to private investment. In November 1980, the pension system was restructured from a PAYGO-system to a fully funded capitalization system run by private sector pension funds. Healthcare and education were likewise privatized.\n\nWages decreased by 8%. Family allowances in 1989 were 28% of what they had been in 1970 and the budgets for education, health and housing had dropped by over 20% on average The junta relied on the middle class, the oligarchy, foreign corporations, and foreign loans to maintain itself. Businesses recovered most of their lost industrial and agricultural holdings, for the junta returned properties to original owners who had lost them during expropriations, and sold other industries expropriated by Allende's Popular Unity government to private buyers. This period saw the expansion of business and widespread speculation.\n\nFinancial conglomerates became major beneficiaries of the liberalized economy and the flood of foreign bank loans. Large foreign banks reinstated the credit cycle, as debt obligations, such as resuming payment of principal and interest installments, were honored. International lending organizations such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the Inter-American Development Bank lent vast sums anew. Many foreign multinational corporations such as International Telephone and Telegraph (ITT), Dow Chemical, and Firestone, all expropriated by Allende, returned to Chile. Pinochet's policies eventually led to substantial GDP growth, in contrast to the negative growth seen in the early years of his administration. Foreign debt also grew substantially under Pinochet, rising 300% between 1974 and 1988.\n\nThe Pinochet government implemented an economic model that had three main objectives: economic liberalization, privatization of state owned companies, and stabilization of inflation. In 1985, the government initiated a second round of privatization, revising previously introduced tariff increases and creating a greater supervisory role for the Central Bank. Pinochet's market liberalizations have continued after his death, led by Patricio Aylwin.\n\nCritics argue the neoliberal economic policies of the Pinochet regime resulted in widening inequality and deepening poverty as they negatively impacted the wages, benefits and working conditions of Chile's working class. According to Chilean economist Alejandro Foxley, by the end of Pinochet's reign around 44% of Chilean families were living below the poverty line. According to \"The Shock Doctrine\" by Naomi Klein, by the late 1980s, the economy had stabilized and was growing, but around 45% of the population had fallen into poverty while the wealthiest 10% saw their incomes rise by 83%.\n\nAccording to the transitional provisions of the 1980 Constitution, a referendum was scheduled for 5 October 1988, to vote on a new eight-year presidential term for Pinochet. Confronted with increasing opposition, notably at the international level, Pinochet legalized political parties in 1987 and called for a vote to determine whether or not he would remain in power until 1997. If the \"YES\" won, Pinochet would have to implement the dispositions of the 1980 Constitution, mainly the call for general elections, while he would himself remain in power as President. If the \"NO\" won, Pinochet would remain President for another year, and a joint Presidential and Parliamentary election would be scheduled.\n\nAnother reason for Pinochet's decision to call for elections was the April 1987 visit of Pope John Paul II to Chile. According to the US Catholic author George Weigel, he held a meeting with Pinochet during which they discussed a return to democracy. John Paul II allegedly pushed Pinochet to accept a democratic opening of his government, and even called for his resignation.\nPolitical advertising was legalized on 5 September 1987, as a necessary element for the campaign for the \"NO\" to the referendum, which countered the official campaign, which presaged a return to a Popular Unity government in case of a defeat of Pinochet. The Opposition, gathered into the \"Concertación de Partidos por el NO\" (\"Coalition of Parties for NO\"), organized a colorful and cheerful campaign under the slogan \"La alegría ya viene\" (\"Joy is coming\"). It was formed by the Christian Democracy, the Socialist Party and the Radical Party, gathered in the \"Alianza Democrática\" (Democratic Alliance). In 1988, several more parties, including the Humanist Party, the Ecologist Party, the Social Democrats, and several Socialist Party splinter groups added their support.\n\nOn 5 October 1988, the \"NO\" option won with 55.99% of the votes, against 44.01% of \"YES\" votes. Pinochet accepted the result and the ensuing Constitutional process led to presidential and legislative elections the following year.\n\nThe Coalition changed its name to \"Concertación de Partidos por la Democracia\" (Coalition of Parties for Democracy) and put forward Patricio Aylwin, a Christian Democrat who had opposed Allende, as presidential candidate, and also proposed a list of candidates for the parliamentary elections. The opposition and the Pinochet government made several negotiations to amend the Constitution and agreed to 54 modifications. These amendments changed the way the Constitution would be modified in the future, added restrictions to state of emergency dispositions, the affirmation of political pluralism, and enhanced constitutional rights as well as the democratic principle and participation to political life. In July 1989, a referendum on the proposed changes took place, supported by all the parties except the right-wing Southern Party and the instrumental Chilean Socialist Party (created by the dictatorship to confuse voters). The Constitutional changes were approved by 91.25% of the voters.\n\nThereafter, Aylwin won the December 1989 presidential election with 55% of the votes, against less than 30% for the right-wing candidate, Hernán Büchi, who had been Pinochet's Minister of Finances since 1985 (there was also a third-party candidate, Francisco Javier Errázuriz, a wealthy aristocrat representing the extreme economic right, who garnered the remaining 15%). Pinochet thus left the presidency on 11 March 1990 and transferred power to the new democratically elected president.\n\nThe \"Concertación\" also won the majority of votes for the Parliament. However, due to the \"binomial\" representation system included in the constitution, the elected senators did not achieve a complete majority in Parliament, a situation that would last for over 15 years. This forced them to negotiate all law projects with the Alliance for Chile (originally called \"Democracy and Progress\" and then \"Union for Chile\"), a center-right coalition involving the \"Unión Demócrata Independiente\" (UDI) and \"Renovación Nacional\" (RN), parties composed mainly of Pinochet's supporters.\n\nDue to the transitional provisions of the constitution, Pinochet remained as Commander-in-Chief of the Army until March 1998. He was then sworn in as a senator-for-life, a privilege granted by the 1980 constitution to former presidents with at least six years in office. His senatorship and consequent immunity from prosecution protected him from legal action. These were possible in Chile only after Pinochet was arrested in 1998 in the United Kingdom, on an extradition request issued by Spanish judge Baltasar Garzón. Allegations of abuses had been made numerous times before his arrest, but never acted upon. The extradition attempt was dramatised in the 2006 BBC television docudrama \"Pinochet in Suburbia\", with Pinochet played by Derek Jacobi. Shortly before giving up power, Pinochet prohibited all forms of abortion, previously authorized in case of rape or risk to the life of the mother.\n\nChile was officially neutral during the Falklands War, but Chile's Westinghouse long-range radar that was deployed in the south of the country gave the British task force early warning of Argentinian air attacks. This allowed British ships and troops in the war zone to take defensive action. Margaret Thatcher, the British prime minister at the time of the war, said that the day the radar was taken out of service for overdue maintenance was the day Argentinian fighter-bombers bombed the troopships \"Sir Galahad\" and \"Sir Tristram\", leaving 53 dead and many injured. According to Chilean Junta member and former Air Force commander, General Fernando Matthei, Chilean support included military intelligence gathering, radar surveillance, allowing British aircraft to operate with Chilean colours, and facilitating the safe return of British special forces, among other forms of assistance.\n\nIn April and May 1982, a squadron of mothballed British Hawker Hunter fighter-bombers departed for Chile, arriving on 22 May and allowing the Chilean Air Force to reform the No. 9 \"Las Panteras Negras\" Squadron. A further consignment of three frontier surveillance and shipping reconnaissance Canberras left for Chile in October. Some authors have speculated that Argentina might have won the war had the military felt able to employ the elite VIth and VIIIth Mountain Brigades, which remained sitting in the Andes guarding against possible Chilean incursions. Pinochet subsequently visited the UK on more than one occasion. Pinochet's controversial relationship with Thatcher led Labour Prime Minister Tony Blair to mock Thatcher's Conservatives as \"the party of Pinochet\" in 1999.\n\nPinochet himself expressed his project in government as a national rebirth inspired in Diego Portales, a figure of the early republic:\n\nThe lawyer Jaime Guzmán participated in the design of important speeches of Pinochet, and provided frequent political and doctrinal advice and consultancy.\n\nJacobo Timerman has called the Chilean army under Pinochet \"the last Prussian army in the world\", suggesting a pre-Fascist origin to the model of Pinochet's military government.\n\nHistorian Alfredo Jocelyn-Holt has referred to Pinochet's figure as \"totemic\" and added that it is a scapegoat that attracts \"all hate\". Gabriel Salazar, also a historian, has lamented the lack of an international condemnation of Pinochet in court, since, according to Salazar, that would have damaged his image \"irreparably\" and that of the judicial system of Chile [for the good] too.\n\nAccording to Pinochet, who was aware of his ancestry, he was taught the French language by an uncle. He would then have forgotten most of it. Pinochet admired Napoleon as the greatest among French and had a framed picture of him. Another French ruler he admired was Louis XIV.\n\nPinochets reputation led Peruvians in the 1990s to call Alberto Fujimori \"chinochet\" instead of his ordinary nickname \"chino\".\nWith the rise of the alt-right in the mid-2010s Pinochets image have been used by movement in several internet memes. A popular memes is \"Pinochet helicopter rides\" —a reference to the dictatorships death flights. \n\nPinochet and his government have been characterised as fascist. For example, journalist and author Samuel Chavkin, in his book \"Storm Over Chile: The Junta Under Siege\", repeatedly characterizes both Pinochet himself and the military dictatorship as fascist.\n\nHowever, he and his government are generally excluded from academic typologies of fascism. Roger Griffin included Pinochet in a group of pseudo-populist despots distinct from fascism and including the likes of Saddam Hussein, Suharto, and Ferdinand Marcos. He argues that such regimes may be considered populist ultra-nationalism but lack the rhetoric of national rebirth, or palingenesis, necessary to make them conform to the model of palingenetic ultranationalism. Robert Paxton meanwhile compared Pinochet's regime to that of Mobutu Sese Seko in the former Zaire (now Democratic Republic of the Congo), arguing that both were merely client states that lacked popular acclaim and the ability to expand. He further argued that had Pinochet attempted to build true fascism, the regime would likely have been toppled or at least been forced to alter its relationship to the United States. Anna Cento Bull also excluded Pinochet from fascism, although she has argued that his regime belongs to a strand of Cold War anti-communism that was happy to accommodate neo-fascist elements within its activity.\n\n\"World Fascism: a Historical Encyclopedia\" notes that \"Although he was authoritarian and ruled dictatorially, Pinochet's support of neoliberal economic policies and his unwillingness to support national businesses distinguished him from classical fascists.\"\n\nHistorian Gabriel Salazar stated that Pinochet's establishment cult of personality around him was a fascist tactic:\nPinochet was publicly known as a man with a lack of culture. This image was reinforced by the fact that he also portrayed himself as a common man with simple ideas. He was also known for being reserved, sharing little about his opinions or feelings. Before wresting power from Allende, Pinochet had written two books, \"Geopolítica\" (1968) and \"Campaña de Tarapacá\" (1972), which established him as a major figure in Chile's military literature. In \"Geopolítica\" Pinochet plagiarized his mentor general Gregorio Rodríguez Tascón by using paragraphs from a 1949 conference presentation of Rodríguez without attributing them to him.\nRodríguez had previously lectured Pinochet and René Schneider and Carlos Prats in geography and geopolitics. In contrast to the two latter Pinochet was not an outstanding student but his persistence and interest in geopolitics made Rodríguez assume the role as his academic mentor. Rodríguez granted Pinochet a slot as assistant lecturer in geopolitics and in geography. According to Rodríguez Pinochet would have been particularly impressed by his lectures on \"The Art of War\". Pinochet would later succeed Rodríguez in the geopolitics and geography chair.\n\nInvestigative journalist Juan Cristóbal Peña has put forward the thesis that Pinochet felt intellectual envy of Carlos Prats and that the latter's assassination in 1974 was a relief for Pinochet.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Pinochet amassed more than 55,000 books in his private library, worth an estimated 2,840,000 US dollars (2006–07). The extent of his library was only known to the public after a police inspection in January 2006. Pinochet bought books at several small bookshops in the old centre of Santiago and was later supplied with books from abroad by military attachés who bought texts Pinochet was searching after. As ruler of Chile he used discretionary funds for these purchases. The library included many rare books including a first edition (1646) \"Historica relacion del Reyno de Chile\" and an original letter of Bernardo O'Higgins. A significant part of the books and documents of the library of José Manuel Balmaceda was found in Pinochet's library in 2006. Pinochet's library contained almost no poetry or fiction works.\n\nSupporters sometimes refer to Pinochet as \"mi general\" (the military salutation for a general) while opponents call him \"pinocho\" (Spanish for \"Pinocchio\", from the children's story). A common nickname used by both younger generations is \"el tata\" (Chilean Spanish equivalent of \"the grandpa\"). Since the Riggs Bank scandal he has been referred to sarcastically as \"Daniel Lopez\", one of the fake identities he used to deposit money in the bank.\n\nThe case was a watershed event in judicial history, as it was the first time that a former government head was arrested on the principle of universal jurisdiction.\n\nAfter having been placed under house arrest in Britain in October 1998 and initiating a judicial and public relations battle, the latter run by Thatcherite political operative Patrick Robertson, he was eventually released in March 2000 on medical grounds by the Home Secretary Jack Straw without facing trial. Straw had overruled a House of Lords decision to extradite Pinochet to face trial in Spain.\n\nPinochet returned to Chile on 3 March, 2000. His first act when landing in Santiago's airport was to triumphantly get up from his wheelchair to the acclaim of his supporters. He was first greeted by his successor as head of the Chilean armed forces, General Ricardo Izurieta. President-elect Ricardo Lagos said the retired general's televised arrival had damaged the image of Chile, while thousands demonstrated against him.\n\nIn March 2000, Congress approved a constitutional amendment creating the status of \"ex-president,\" which granted its holder immunity from prosecution and a financial allowance; this replaced Pinochet's senatorship-for-life. 111 legislators voted for, and 29 against.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled in favor of judge Juan Guzmán's request on August 2000, and Pinochet was indicted on 1 December 2000 for the kidnapping of 75 opponents in the Caravan of Death case. Guzmán advanced the charge of kidnapping as the 75 were officially \"disappeared\": even though they were all most likely dead, the absence of their corpses made any charge of \"homicide\" difficult.\n\nHowever, in July 2002, the Supreme Court dismissed Pinochet's indictment in the various human rights abuse cases, for medical reasons (vascular dementia). The debate concerned Pinochet's mental faculties, his legal team claiming that he was senile and could not remember, while others (including several physicians) claimed that he was only affected physically but retained all control of his faculties. The same year, the prosecuting attorney Hugo Guttierez, in charge of the Caravan of Death case, declared, \"Our country has the degree of justice that the political transition permits us to have.\"\n\nPinochet resigned from his senatorial seat shortly after the Supreme Court's July 2002 ruling. In May 2004, the Supreme Court overturned its precedent decision, and ruled that he was capable of standing trial. In arguing their case, the prosecution presented a recent TV interview Pinochet had given for a Miami-based television network, which raised doubts about his alleged mental incapacity. In December 2004, he was charged with several crimes, including the 1974 assassination of General Prats and the Operation Colombo case in which 119 died, and was again placed under house arrest. He suffered a stroke on 18 December 2004. Questioned by his judges in order to know if, as President, he was the direct head of DINA, he answered: \"I don't remember, but it's not true. And if it were true, I don't remember.\"\n\nIn January 2005, the Chilean Army accepted institutional responsibility for past human rights abuses. In 2006, Pinochet was indicted for kidnappings and torture at the Villa Grimaldi detention center by judge Alejandro Madrid (Guzmán's successor), as well as for the 1995 assassination of the DINA biochemist Eugenio Berrios, himself involved in the Letelier case. Berrios, who had worked with Michael Townley, had produced sarin gas, anthrax and botulism in the Bacteriological War Army Laboratory for Pinochet; these materials were used against political opponents. The DINA biochemist was also alleged to have created black cocaine, which Pinochet then sold in Europe and the United States. The money for the drug trade was allegedly deposited into Pinochet's bank accounts. Pinochet's son Marco Antonio, who had been accused of participating in the drug trade, in 2006 denied claims of drug trafficking in his father's administration and said that he would sue Manuel Contreras, who had said that Pinochet sold cocaine.\n\nOn 25 November 2006, Pinochet marked his 91st birthday by having his wife read a statement he had written to admirers present for his birthday: \"I assume the political responsibility for all that has been done.\" Two days later, he was again sentenced to house arrest for the kidnapping and murder of two bodyguards of Salvador Allende who were arrested the day of the 1973 coup and executed by firing squad during the Caravan of Death.\n\nHowever, Pinochet died a few days later, on 10 December 2006, without having been convicted of any of the crimes of which he was accused.\n\nIn 2004, a United States Senate money laundering investigation led by Senators Carl Levin (D-MI) and Norm Coleman (R-MN)—ordered in the wake of the 11 September 2001 attacks—uncovered a network of over 125 securities and bank accounts at Riggs Bank and other U.S. financial institutions used by Pinochet and his associates for twenty-five years to secretly move millions of dollars.\nThough the subcommittee was charged only with investigating compliance of financial institutions under the USA PATRIOT Act, and not the Pinochet regime, Senator Coleman noted:\nOver several months in 2005, Chilean judge Sergio Muñoz indicted Augusto Pinochet's wife, Lucia Hiriart; four of his children – Marco Antonio, Jacqueline, Veronica and Lucia Pinochet; his personal secretary, Monica Ananias; and his former aide Oscar Aitken on tax evasion and falsification charges stemming from the Riggs Bank investigation. In January 2006, daughter Lucia Pinochet was detained at Washington DC-Dulles airport and subsequently deported while attempting to evade the tax charges in Chile. In January 2007, the Santiago Court of Appeals revoked most of the indictment from Judge Carlos Cerda against the Pinochet family. But Pinochet's five children, his wife and 17 other persons (including two generals, one of his former lawyer and former secretary) were arrested in October 2007 on charges of embezzlement and use of false passports. They are accused of having illegally transferred $27m (£13.2m) to foreign bank accounts during Pinochet's rule.\n\nIn September 2005, a joint investigation by \"The Guardian\" and \"La Tercera\" revealed that the British arms firm BAE Systems had been identified as paying more than £1m to Pinochet, through a front company in the British Virgin Islands, which BAE has used to channel commission on arms deals. The payments began in 1997 and lasted until 2004.\n\nFurthermore, in 2007, fifteen years of investigation led to the conclusion that the 1992 assassination of DINA Colonel Gerardo Huber was most probably related to various illegal arms traffic carried out, after Pinochet's resignation from power, by military circles very close to himself. Huber had been assassinated a short time before he was due to testify in the case concerning the 1991 illegal export of weapons to Croatian army. The deal involved 370 tons of weapons, sold to Croatia by Chile on 7 December 1991, when the former country was under a United Nations' embargo because of the support for Croatia war in Yugoslavia. In January 1992, the judge Hernán Correa de la Cerda wanted to hear Gerardo Huber in this case, but the latter may have been silenced to avoid implicating Pinochet in this new case—although the latter was not anymore President, he remained at the time Commander-in-Chief of the Army. Pinochet was at the center of this illegal arms trade, receiving money through various offshores and front companies, including the Banco Coutts International in Miami.\n\nPinochet was stripped of his parliamentary immunity in August 2000 by the Supreme Court, and indicted by judge Juan Guzmán Tapia. Guzmán had ordered in 1999 the arrest of five militarists, including General Pedro Espinoza Bravo of the DINA, for their role in the Caravan of Death following the coup on 11 September. Arguing that the bodies of the \"disappeared\" were still missing, he made jurisprudence, which had as effect to lift any prescription on the crimes committed by the military. Pinochet's trial continued until his death on 10 December 2006, with an alternation of indictments for specific cases, lifting of immunities by the Supreme Court or to the contrary immunity from prosecution, with his health a main argument for, or against, his prosecution.\n\nThe Supreme Court affirmed, in March 2005, Pinochet's immunity concerning the 1974 assassination of General Carlos Prats in Buenos Aires, which had taken place in the frame of Operation Condor. However, he was deemed fit to stand trial for Operation Colombo, during which 119 political opponents were \"disappeared\" in Argentina. The Chilean justice also lifted his immunity on the Villa Grimaldi case, a detention and torture center in the outskirts of Santiago. Pinochet, who still benefited from a reputation of righteousness from his supporters, lost legitimacy when he was put under house arrest on tax fraud and passport forgery, following the publication by the US Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of a report concerning the Riggs Bank in July 2004. The report was a consequence of investigations on financial funding of the 11 September 2001 attacks in the US. The bank controlled between US$4 million and $8 million of Pinochet's assets, who lived in Santiago in a modest house, dissimulating his wealth. According to the report, Riggs participated in money laundering for Pinochet, setting up offshore shell corporations (referring to Pinochet as only \"a former public official\"), and hiding his accounts from regulatory agencies. Related to Pinochet's and his family secret bank accounts in United States and in Caribbean islands, this tax fraud filing for an amount of 27 million dollars shocked the conservative sectors who still supported him. Ninety percent of these funds would have been raised between 1990 and 1998, when Pinochet was chief of the Chilean armies, and would essentially have come from weapons traffic (when purchasing French 'Mirage' air-fighters in 1994, Dutch 'Léopard' tanks, Swiss 'Mowag' tanks or by illegal sales of weapons to Croatia, during the Balkans war.) His wife, Lucía Hiriart, and his son, Marco Antonio Pinochet, were also sued for complicity. For the fourth time in seven years, Pinochet was indicted by the Chilean justice.\n\nPinochet suffered a heart attack on the morning of 3 December 2006, and subsequently the same day he was given the last rites. On 4 December 2006, the Chilean Court of Appeals ordered the suspension of his house arrest. On 10 December 2006 at 13:30 local time (16:30 UTC) he was taken to the intensive care unit. He died of congestive heart failure and pulmonary edema, surrounded by family members, at the Military Hospital at 14:15 local time (17:15 UTC).\n\nMassive spontaneous street demonstrations broke out throughout the country upon the news of his death. In Santiago, opponents celebrated his death in Alameda Avenue, while supporters grieved outside the Military Hospital. Pinochet's remains lay in repose on 11 December 2006 at the Military Academy in Las Condes. During this ceremony, Francisco Cuadrado Prats—the grandson of Carlos Prats (a former Commander-in-Chief of the Army in the Allende government who was murdered by Pinochet's secret police)—spat on the coffin, and was quickly surrounded by supporters of Pinochet, who kicked and insulted him. Pinochet's funeral took place the following day at the same venue before a gathering of 60,000 supporters.\n\nIn a government decision, he was not granted a state funeral (an honor normally bestowed upon past presidents of Chile) but a military funeral as former commander-in-chief of the Army appointed by Allende. The government also refused to declare an official national day of mourning, but it did authorize flags at military barracks to be flown at half staff, and for the Chilean flag to be draped on Pinochet's coffin. Socialist President Michelle Bachelet, whose father Alberto was temporarily imprisoned and tortured after the 1973 coup and died shortly afterwards from heart complications, said that it would be \"a violation of [her] conscience\" to attend a state funeral for Pinochet. The only government authority present at the public funeral was the Defense Minister, Vivianne Blanlot.\n\nIn Spain, supporters of late dictator Francisco Franco paid homage to Pinochet. Antonio Tejero, who led the failed coup of 1981, attended a memorial service in Madrid.\nPinochet's body was cremated in Parque del Mar Cemetery, Concón on 12 December 2006, on his request to \"avoid vandalism of his tomb,\" according to his son Marco Antonio. His ashes were delivered to his family later that day, and are deposited in Los Boldos, Santo Domingo, Valparaiso, Chile; one of his personal residences. The armed forces refused to allow his ashes to be deposited on military property.\n\nPinochet's regime was responsible for various human rights abuses during its reign, including forced disappearances, murder and torture of political opponents. According to a government commission report that included testimony from more than 30,000 people, Pinochet's government killed at least 3,197 people and tortured about 29,000. Two-thirds of the cases listed in the report happened in 1973.\nProfessor Clive Foss, in \"The Tyrants: 2500 Years of Absolute Power and Corruption\" (Quercus Publishing 2006), estimates that 1,500–2,000 Chileans were killed or \"disappeared\" during the Pinochet regime. In October 1979, \"The New York Times\" reported that Amnesty International had documented the disappearance of approximately 1,500 Chileans since 1973. Among the killed and disappeared during the military regime were at least 663 Marxist MIR guerrillas. The Manuel Rodríguez Patriotic Front, however, has stated that only 49 FPMR guerrillas were killed but hundreds detained and tortured. According to a study in Latin American Perspectives, at least 200,000 Chileans (about 2% of Chile's 1973 population) were forced to go into exile. Additionally, hundreds of thousands left the country in the wake of the economic crises that followed the military coup during the 1970s and 1980s. Some of the key individuals who fled because of political persecution were followed in their exile by the DINA secret police, in the framework of Operation \"Condor\", which linked South American military dictatorships together against political opponents.\n\nAccording to Peter Kornbluh in \"The Pinochet File\", \"routine sadism was taken to extremes\" in the prison camps. The rape of women was common, including sexual torture such as the insertion of rats into genitals and \"unnatural acts involving dogs.\" Detainees were forcibly immersed in vats of urine and excrement, and were occasionally forced to ingest it. Beatings with gun butts, fists and chains were routine; one technique known as \"the telephone\" involved the torturer slamming \"his open hands hard and rhythmically against the ears of the victim,\" leaving the person deaf. At Villa Grimaldi, prisoners were dragged into the parking lot and had the bones in their legs crushed as they were run over with trucks. Some died from torture; prisoners were beaten with chains and left to die from internal injuries. Following abuse and execution, corpses were interred in secret graves, dropped into rivers or the ocean, or just dumped on urban streets in the night. The body of the renowned Chilean singer, theatre director and academic Víctor Jara was found in a dirty canal \"with his hands and face extremely disfigured\" and with \"forty-four bullet holes.\"\n\nThe practice of murdering political opponents via \"death flights\", employed by the juntas of Argentina and Chile, has been the subject of numerous alt-right internet memes, with the suggestion that political enemies and leftists be given \"free helicopter rides.\" In 2001, Chilean President Ricardo Lagos informed the nation that during Pinochet's reign, 120 bodies had been tossed from helicopters into \"the ocean, the lakes and the rivers of Chile\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17460697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17460697", "title": "Authorization to Carry", "text": "Authorization to Carry\n\nAn Authorization to Carry [ATC] is a permit issued by the government of Canada under the Firearms Act. An ATC allows an individual to lawfully possess a restricted, or a specific class of, prohibited firearm that is loaded or possessed with readily accessible ammunition. Under this permit, the approved firearm may be carried on the permit holder's person, in a holster. The issuing CFO may specify on the ATC that concealing the firearm is permitted, and may impose any other conditions deemed appropriate; for example, an ATC issued for armoured car work requires a uniform be worn while armed (see carry regulation SOR 98-207, Firearms Act).\n\nThis permit is less common than the Authorization to Transport permit which allows secured and trigger locked transport of Restricted and Prohibited class firearms in an unloaded state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1630274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1630274", "title": "Branch stacking", "text": "Branch stacking\n\nBranch stacking is a term used in Australian politics to describe the act of recruiting or signing up members for a local branch of a political party for the principal purpose of influencing the outcome of internal preselections of candidates for public office, or to inordinately influence policy of the party. Allegations of such practices have become controversial in Australia after several inquiries or contests which received mainstream media attention, and most political parties now have clauses in their constitutions which allow \"head office\" intervention to resolve alleged stacking, or other allegations of fraud, with penalties for those who engage in it. Branch stacking itself is legal under Australian law, being internal party matters, but some activities like providing false information to the Australian Electoral Commission, such as numbers of members, can be prosecuted as fraud.\n\nThere are a number of ways that branch stacking may influence the way in which decisions are made within political parties. For example, a party faction may sign up a large number of members in the party who belong to the faction or agree to vote in the manner instructed by faction leaders. Branch stacking is more frequently alleged in the Australian Labor Party, where the factions are more institutionalised, but can take place in all parties. In the ALP, besides membership stacking, another technique is to take advantage of the favoured position of unions within the party, especially the significant vote they have at ALP State and national conferences, which in turn determines party policy and elects internal office holders and membership of committees. The committees may in turn determine preselections for party candidates at elections. The number of members in a union determines the number of delegates to the conferences to which it is entitled. This offers an opportunity for stacking to take place at the union level, which then flows through to other organs of the ALP. Another avenue of stacking is the Young Labor wing of the ALP, which also sends delegates to ALP conferences, and is entitled to a seat on the ALP National Executive.\n\nParty factions and the so-called \"numbers men\" try to work within the rules (and sometimes outside the rules) to advance their causes and reward their supporters. Some have labelled the faction leaders and numbers men as the faceless men of the Labor party, who have also been accused of being driving forces for the election of party leaders and cabinet ministers and the removal of prime ministers. When all factions are playing the system, it is not possible to tell the true views of party members on particular issues. The Hawke-Wran review of the ALP in 2002 claimed branch stacking, largely driven by factions seeking to expand their influence, had a \"cancerous\" effect on the party and a \"deadening\" effect on branch activity, as many of the recruited members have no commitment to the party. \n\nCommentators and authors within or formerly within the Liberal Party of Australia have claimed similar activity in their branches has had a similar effect.\n\nActivities commonly considered to be branch stacking include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16257731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16257731", "title": "Brigitta Scherzenfeldt", "text": "Brigitta Scherzenfeldt\n\nBrigitta Christina Scherzenfeldt, as married Bernow, Lindström, Ziems, and Renat (1684 – 4 April 1736), was a Swedish memoirist and weaving teacher who was captured during the Great Northern War and lived as a slave in the Dzungar Khanate in Central Asia. She dictated her memoirs, describing her life as a slave, after her release. Her story is regarded as a unique source of information about life among the Dzungars.\n\nBorn in Bäckaskog Manor in Scania in Sweden as the child of the noble Lieutenant Knut Scherzenfeldt and Brigitta Tranander, she married the military Mats Bernow at the Life Guards in 1699 and followed him to war in 1700. She mainly lived in Riga, and when her spouse died in Thorn in 1703, she married the military officer Johan Lindström. After the Battle of Narva, they were both taken to Moscow as prisoners, where she became a widow in 1711. She remarried again in 1712, this time to a lieutenant, Michael Ziems, a German who had been taken prisoner of war in by the Russians during his service in the Swedish army; they were subsequently both deported to Tobolsk in Siberia.\n\nZiems, who was clearly not a Swedish subject, joined the service of the Russian army in 1715 to gain their freedom. In 1716, Ziems was a part of the reinforcements sent to the garrison of Ivan Bucholtz at Jarmyn Lake, above the Irtysh River, by Governor Matvei Petrovich Gagarin. Scherzenfeldt, as well as several other Swedish and German people in Russian service, was a part of that convoy. At the same time, the garrison was attacked and captured by the Dzungar, who also met and defeated the convoy, killing Michael Ziems during the conflict.\n\nScherzenfeldt was captured, abused with iron and ropes, stripped and almost raped, but she defended herself so forcefully that she tore a piece of flesh from the leg of her attacker. The attacker then wished to kill her, but was stopped by a comrade, and she was then taken naked to the Khanate in Ili with the other survivors and presented to the Khan, Tsewang Rabtan, himself; he curiously asked her why she had resisted the rape so forcefully, and when she told him about the customs of her country, he ordered that she should never be sexually attacked in the future. The Khan then gave her as a gift to one of his wives, a Princess from Tibet, who gave Scherzenfeldt clothes to wear. The story about the rape attempt is not in her official story, but was told to an English woman, Mrs. Vigor, several years later in Moscow.\n\nScherzenfeldt was made teacher in weaving and knitting, and soon became appreciated for her knowledge in these crafts and her good manners; she was appointed knitting instructor to the Khan's favorite daughter, Princess Seson, and was soon regarded as more of a lady-in-waiting than a slave; during a period of two years, she was the official representative for the purchases from the Princess' dowry in Yarkent County in Xinjiang in China, where she would have been the first Swedish person until the 1890s. She was also active in making a better life for other slaves belonging to the Dzungars.\n\nAmong them was a Swedish man named Johan Gustaf Renat (born 1682 in Stockholm), the son of Dutch Jewish immigrants who converted nationalities in 1681, and he was then captured during his service in the Swedish army; he became an instructor in the making of cannons and the printing of books, and led an attack during a battle against the Chinese; he also made some of the weaving-looms for Scherzenfeldt's workshops.\n\nPrincess Seson wanted Scherzenfeldt to come with her when she was to marry the Khan of the Volga Kalmyks, but she refused, as she feared she would never again see Sweden if she did so, and instead, she \"married\" Renat (the marriage never actually took place), and left the court of the Princess.\n\nShortly after this, in 1727, the Khan, Tsewang Rabtan died, and the Princess, her mother, and everyone belonging to her court were accused of having poisoned him in order to place Seson's brother on the throne; they confessed, and were tortured and executed.\n\nScherzenfeldt was the target of many suspicions and intrigues, but survived due to her good sense and great care, and even managed to get the new Khan to agree on her demand that the eighteen Swedish and one hundred and thirty four Russian slaves be released.\n\nIn 1733, Scherzenfeldt and Renat left Central Asia in the company of a Russian ambassador and twenty Kalmyk or Dzungar slaves, which were given to them upon their departure; six of them were subsequently kept by the Russians, but several others died before arriving in Moscow. They had been allowed to leave only to visit their home country; they were expected to return. In Moscow, she told an English woman, Mrs Vigor, some about her experiences, which were published by Vigor in a book about Russia. When the survivors entered Stockholm in 1734, the three remaining Kalmyks (Altan, Iamakiss and Zara) were baptized to become Anna Catharina, Maria Stina and Sara Greta; they then became maids in the Renat household.\n\nScherzenfeldt died in Stockholm in 1736. Her Dzungar costume of red silk is now on display in the Livrustkammaren in Stockholm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9504112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9504112", "title": "Castle Coalition", "text": "Castle Coalition\n\nThe Castle Coalition is a network of U.S. homeowners and citizen activists determined to stop the abuse of eminent domain in their communities, that is, the taking of private property by the government in order to give it to another private individual. The organization takes its name from the principle that Americans' homes or businesses should be their castles, that is, places where they are safe and free from abusive government power. The principle has been part of Anglo-American legal tradition since Edward Coke famously stated, \"... a man's house is his castle\".\n\nThe Castle Coalition was founded in March 2002 as a project of the Institute for Justice in response to the number of the requests attorneys received from citizens facing threats of eminent domain who were years away from any actual litigation. After the success of community groups in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and New Rochelle, New York, attorneys at IJ organized a conference for other activists facing eminent domain abuse from around the United States to teach them how to succeed in preventing their local government from taking their property through eminent domain. Castle Coalition-trained activists have been successful in saving their homes in places like Ardmore, Pennsylvania, Chicago, Lakewood, Ohio, and Los Angeles, California.\n\nOn 13 May 2002, \"Fortune\" magazine praised the new organization in a piece titled \"Fighting City Hall\": \n\nSuperheroes? Maybe. Although its name sounds like something out of a comic book, the Institute for Justice, a public-interest law firm in Washington, D.C., actually provides a much needed resource for business owners threatened with eviction. Since its founding in 1991, the firm has waged public relations campaigns and even stepped in to take legal action in communities when it feels the power of eminent domain has been abused. Of the nine projects that the Institute has taken on, it has won seven and lost none, and two are pending. But because the law firm can't take on every case across the U.S., it also created a grassroots group called the Castle Coalition to help teach business owners the ways they can take their fight to the streets and win. The group consists of community leaders and property owners who've successfully fought eminent domain cases or are currently involved in one. The coalition's website (castlecoalition.org) contains information on what steps you need to take and also tells you when to call in the pros.\nIn 2005, the Supreme Court issued its decision in Kelo v. City of New London. Although the decision allowed for a more expansive view of the public use clause in the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution the decision also states, \"Nothing in our opinion precludes any State from placing further restrictions on its exercise of the takings power.\" In response to the decision, the Castle Coalition expanded its focus to include the reform of state and local eminent domain laws.\n\nIn June 2005, they launched a $3 million Hands Off My Home campaign, calling it \"an aggressive initiative to effect significant and substantial reforms of state and local eminent domain laws.\" Two years after the beginning of the Hands Off My Home campaign, they published the \"50 State Report Card\" to provide the results of the campaign. By June 2007, 21 states had enacted substantive eminent domain reform and another 21 states had increased eminent domain protections but not nearly enough to prevent takings allowed by the Kelo decision. Eight states had not passed any legislation reforming their eminent domain laws.\n\nThe Castle Coalition provides model legislative language for eminent domain reform, stricter blight statutes and state constitutional amendments. The Castle Coalition also has several publications documenting the extent and nature of eminent domain abuse across the United States. \nThe Castle Coalition also brings activists together for a national conference annually and teaches home and small business owners how to protect themselves and stand up to the over-reaching governments and developers who seek to use eminent domain to take private property for their own gain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000585", "title": "Character evidence", "text": "Character evidence\n\nCharacter evidence is a term used in the law of evidence to describe any testimony or document submitted for the purpose of proving that a person acted in a particular way on a particular occasion based on the character or disposition of that person. In the United States, Federal Rule of Evidence 404 maps out its permissible and prohibited uses in trials. Three factors typically determine the admissibility of character evidence: \n\nIn the United States, character evidence may be offered at trial to\n\nCharacter may be a substantive issue in defamation suits, in lawsuits alleging negligent hiring or negligent entrustment, in child custody cases, as well as in loss of consortium cases; character evidence is thus admissible to prove the substantive issues that arise in these types of lawsuits.\n\nIf used as circumstantial evidence, FRE 404(a)(1) renders inadmissible character evidence offered to prove that an individual acted \"in accordance with\" a character or trait \"on a particular occasion.\" It lists several exceptions which apply depending on whether the proceeding is civil or criminal, whether the defense or prosecution is offering the character evidence, and what purpose it is being offered for.\n\nCharacter evidence may be offered, depending on the type of proceeding, party offering, and purported purpose, explained below, in three forms:\n\n\nIn the majority of U.S. jurisdictions, character evidence is inadmissible in civil suits when being used as circumstantial evidence to prove that a person acted in conformity with his or her character; it is considered to be an unfair basis from which to attempt to prove that an individual behaved in a particular way on a particular occasion. Another way of looking at this is that character evidence is only admissible in a majority of jurisdictions in a civil trial if character is actually a substantive issue in the case (negligent hiring; negligent entrustment, child custody cases, loss of consortium cases), or to impeach a witness.\n\nA minority of U.S. jurisdictions, however, permit defendants in assault and battery and fraudulent misconduct civil cases to introduce character evidence as circumstantial evidence to prove that a person acted in conformity with his or her character.\n\nIn the United States, character evidence is inadmissible in a criminal trial if first offered by the prosecution as circumstantial evidence to show that a defendant is likely to have committed the crime with which he or she is charged—the prosecution may not, in other words, initiate character evidence that shows defendant's propensity to commit a crime. However the prosecution may introduce character evidence for certain limited purposes \"after\" the defendant does so—after the defendant has \"opened the door\"—through the permissible methods and purposes explained below in \"Character evidence offered by the defendant,\" to rebut what defendant tried showing through character evidence, and to \"offer evidence of the defendant's same trait.\" \n\nFRE 404, in addition to dictating character evidence's permissible use in federal courts, also bars the prosecution's admission of \"crimes, wrongs, or other acts\" to prove the character of a person in order to show action in conformity therewith (propensity). Evidence of other crimes, wrongs or acts is available for \"non-character purposes,\" such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, or absence of mistake or accident. In a criminal prosecution, the defendant can request to receive notice of this type of evidence if the prosecution intends to admit it at trial. \n\nCharacter evidence is admissible in a criminal trial if offered by a defendant as circumstantial evidence—through reputation or opinion evidence—to show \"his or her own\" character, as long as the character evidence the defendant seeks to introduce is relevant to the crime with which the defendant is charged. For example, if a defendant is charged with a crime involving dishonesty, defendant may introduce evidence tending to show defendant's honest character. If defendant is charged with a violent crime, defendant may introduce evidence tending to show defendant's peaceful character. \n\n\nCharacter evidence is also admissible in a criminal trial if offered by a defendant as circumstantial evidence—through reputation or opinion evidence—to show an alleged victim's \"pertinent\" character trait—for example, to support defendant's claim of self-defense to a charge of homicide. \n\nAfter a criminal defendant introduces evidence of the victim's character, the prosecution may \"then\" introduce its own character evidence to rebut the defendant's character evidence by showing its side's impression of the victim's character, or to attack the character of the defendant through evidence that shows that defendant had the same character trait he or she accused the victim of having. \n\n\nThe admissibility of character evidence to allow defendant to prove the character trait of a victim is limited, however, if the lawsuit is for rape or assault with the intent to commit rape. If the reputation or opinion evidence is being offered by the defendant to show the rape victim's past sexual conduct, character evidence is inadmissible. In such sexual misconduct cases, a defendant may offer \"evidence of specific instances of a victim’s sexual behavior\" only to show that someone other than the defendant was the source of \"semen, injury, or other physical evidence,\" or to show that the victim had consented to sexual behavior with the defendant.\n\n\nCommentators have noted that the ability of defendants to call character witnesses can give an advantage to more affluent defendants. Affluent defendants can call as character witnesses celebrities, athletes, and prominent members of the community. In contrast, it would be neither advisable nor beneficial to a defendant to call to the stand a disreputable fellow inmate as a character witness.\n\nCharacter evidence must be distinguished from habit evidence, which is generally admissible, and which is evidence submitted for the purpose of proving that an individual acted in a particular way on a particular occasion in question based on that person's tendency to reflexively respond to a particular situation in a particular way.\n\n"}
{"id": "1531582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1531582", "title": "Choice of law clause", "text": "Choice of law clause\n\nA choice of law clause or proper law clause is a term of a contract in which the parties specify that any dispute arising under the contract shall be determined in accordance with the law of a particular jurisdiction.\n\nAs business transactions and contractual obligations may cross jurisdictional borders within a nation, as well as international borders, both physically and electronically, choice of law issues may arise in the event that it is necessary to interpret the terms of a contract or in the event of litigation over a contract dispute. As laws vary between jurisdictions, it is possible that contract terms could be interpreted differently between jurisdictions, or that portions of a contract that are enforceable in one jurisdiction would not be enforceable under the laws of another. The parties may therefore agree in advance to interpret the contract in accord with the laws of a jurisdiction that is identified within their contract.\n\nIn some situations a court may find that there are public policy reasons to disregard a choice of law clause, and instead interpret a contract under the laws of the jurisdiction in which a lawsuit is filed. For example, a jurisdiction may find as a matter of public policy, it will apply its own consumer protection laws to a dispute between a consumer and a business even if the contract calls for the application of the laws of a different jurisdiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3261664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3261664", "title": "Concession (contract)", "text": "Concession (contract)\n\nA concession or concession agreement is a grant of rights, land or property by a government, local authority, corporation, individual or other legal entity.\n\nPublic services such as water supply may be operated as a concession. In the case of a public service concession, a private company enters into an agreement with the government to have the exclusive right to operate, maintain and carry out investment in a public utility (such as a water privatisation) for a given number of years. Other forms of contracts between public and private entities, namely lease contract and management contract (in the water sector often called by the French term \"affermage\"), are closely related but differ from a concession in the rights of the operator and its remuneration. A lease gives a company the right to operate and maintain a public utility, but investment remains the responsibility of the public. Under a management contract the operator will collect the revenue only on behalf of the government and will in turn be paid an agreed fee.\n\nA grant of land or property by a government may be in return for services or for a particular use, a right to undertake and profit by a specified activity, a lease for a particular purpose. A concession may include the right to use some existing infrastructure required to carry out a business (such as a water supply system in a city); in some cases, such as mining, it may involve merely the transfer of exclusive or non-exclusive easements.\n\nIn the private sector, the owner of a concession — the \"concessionaire\" — typically pays either a fixed sum or a percentage of revenue to the owner of the entity from which it operates. Examples of concessions within another business are concession stands within sporting venues and movie theaters and concessions in department stores operated by other retailers. Short term concessions may be granted as promotional space for periods as short as one day.\n\nDepending on what the law that is related to a sector states, concession can either allow the authority to retain or keep ownership of the assets, turning over to the concessionaire and reverting the ownership back to an authority once the duration of their concession ended, or both the authority and concessionaire own the facilities.\n\nMuhammad Ali of Egypt used contracts called concessions to build cheap infrastructure - dams and railroads - whereby foreign European companies would raise capital, build projects, and collect most of the operating revenue but would provide Ali's government with a portion of that revenue. For other examples of concessions, see \"Gibbons v. Ogden\" and United States railroad policy.\n\nWithin the European Union, the granting of concessions by public bodies is subject to regulation. Works concessions have been subject to award rules for some time as Directive 2004/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the European Council on public procurement applied to works concessions, and the award of services concessions with a cross-border interest has been subject to the principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. However, the European Parliament and the European Council issued a further Directive 2014/23/EU on the award of concession contracts on 26 February 2014 which required EU member states to introduce national legislation covering the award of concession contracts in excess of EUR 5,186,000 awarded on or after 18 April 2016.\n\nIn the UK, the threshold for concession contracts is £4,104,394.\n\n"}
{"id": "40487153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40487153", "title": "Convention concerning Customs Facilities for Touring", "text": "Convention concerning Customs Facilities for Touring\n\nThe Convention concerning Customs Facilities for Touring is a 1956 United Nations multilateral treaty. In states that adhere to the Convention, it allows tourists to import personal effects into the country duty free so long as the effects are for the personal use of the tourist and they are carried on the person or in their luggage.\n\nThe Convention states that \"personal effects\" includes the following items:\nThe Convention also permits the duty-free exportation of travel souvenirs for a total value not exceeding USD$100. A \"tourist\" is defined in the Convention as \"any person without distinction as to race, sex, language, religion, who enters the territory of a Contracting State other than that in which that person normally resides and remains there for not less than twenty-four hours and not more than six months in the course of any twelve-month period, for legitimate non-immigrant purposes, such as touring, recreation, sports, health, family reasons, study, religious pilgrimages or business\".\n\nThe Convention was concluded in New York City on 4 June 1954 at the same conference that the Customs Convention on the Temporary Importation of Private Road Vehicles was concluded. It was signed by 32 states and entered into force on 11 September 1957. As of 2013, 79 states have ratified the treaty. The states that have signed but not ratified the Convention are Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Holy See, Honduras, Monaco, and Panama. Singapore ratified the Convention in 1966 but denounced it in 1999, with effect from 2001.\n\nThe Convention was somewhat superseded in 1990 by the Istanbul Convention, which combines in one single instrument the various conventions on the temporary admission of specific goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "1054527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1054527", "title": "Corporate law", "text": "Corporate law\n\nCorporate law (also known as business law or enterprise law or sometimes company law) is the body of law governing the rights, relations, and conduct of persons, companies, organizations and businesses. It refers to the legal practice relating to, or the theory of corporations. Corporate law often describes the law relating to matters which derive directly from the life-cycle of a corporation. It thus encompasses the formation, funding, governance, and death of a corporation.\n\nWhile the minute nature of corporate governance as personified by share ownership, capital market, and business culture rules differ, similar legal characteristics - and legal problems - exist across many jurisdictions. Corporate law regulates how corporations, investors, shareholders, directors, employees, creditors, and other stakeholders such as consumers, the community, and the environment interact with one another. Whilst the term company or business law is colloquially used interchangeably with corporate law, business law often refers to wider concepts of \"commercial law\", that is, the law relating to commercial or business related activities. In some cases, this may include matters relating to corporate governance or financial law. When used as a substitute for corporate law, business law means the law relating to the \"business corporation\"(or business enterprises), i.e. capital raising (through equity or debt), company formation, registration, etc.\n\nAcademics identify four legal characteristics universal to business enterprises. These are: \nWidely available and user-friendly corporate law enables business participants to possess these four legal characteristics and thus transact as businesses. Thus, corporate law is a response to three endemic opportunism: conflicts between managers and shareholders, between controlling and non-controlling shareholders; and between shareholders and other contractual counterparts (including creditors and employees).\n\nA corporation may accurately be called a company; however, a company should not necessarily be called a corporation, which has distinct characteristics. In the United States, a company may or may not be a separate legal entity, and is often used synonymous with \"firm\" or \"business.\" According to Black's Law Dictionary, in America a company means \"a corporation — or, less commonly, an association, partnership or union — that carries on industrial enterprise.\" Other types of business associations can include partnerships (in the UK governed by the Partnership Act 1890), or trusts (Such as a pension fund), or companies limited by guarantee (like some community organizations or charities). Corporate law deals with companies that are incorporated or registered under the corporate or company law of a sovereign state or their sub-national states. \n\nThe defining feature of a corporation is its legal independence from the shareholders that own it. Under corporate law, corporations of all sizes have separate legal personality, with limited or unlimited liability for its shareholders. Shareholders control the company through a board of directors which, in turn, typically delegates control of the corporation's day-to-day operations to a full-time executive. Shareholders' losses, in the event of liquidation, are limited to their stake in the corporation, and they are not liable for any remaining debts owed to the corporation's creditors. This rule is called limited liability, and it is why the names of corporations end with \"Ltd.\". or some variant such as \"Inc.\" or \"plc\"). \n\nUnder almost all legal systems corporations have much the same legal rights and obligations as individuals. In some jurisdictions, this extends to allow corporations to exercise human rights against real individuals and the state, and they may be responsible for human rights violations. Just as they are \"born\" into existence through its members obtaining a certificate of incorporation, they can \"die\" when they lose money into insolvency. Corporations can even be convicted of criminal offences, such as corporate fraud and corporate manslaughter.\n\nIn order to understand the role corporate law plays within commercial law, it is useful to understand the historical development of the corporation, and the development of modern company law. \n\nAlthough some forms of companies are thought to have existed during Ancient Rome and Ancient Greece, the closest recognizable ancestors of the modern company did not appear until the 16th century. With increasing international trade, Royal charters were granted in Europe (notably in England and Holland) to merchant adventurers. The Royal charters usually conferred special privileges on the trading company (including, usually, some form of monopoly). Originally, traders in these entities traded stock on their own account, but later the members came to operate on joint account and with joint stock, and the new Joint stock company was born.\n\nEarly companies were purely economic ventures; it was only a belatedly established benefit of holding joint stock that the company's stock could not be seized for the debts of any individual member. The development of company law in Europe was hampered by two notorious \"bubbles\" (the South Sea Bubble in England and the Tulip Bulb Bubble in the Dutch Republic) in the 17th century, which set the development of companies in the two leading jurisdictions back by over a century in popular estimation.\n\nCompanies, almost inevitably, returned to the forefront of commerce, although in England to circumvent the Bubble Act 1720 investors had reverted to trading the stock of unincorporated associations, until it was repealed in 1825. However, the cumbersome process of obtaining Royal charters was simply insufficient to keep up with demand. In England there was a lively trade in the charters of defunct companies. However, procrastination amongst the legislature meant that in the United Kingdom it was not until the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844 that the first equivalent of modern companies, formed by registration, appeared. Soon after came the Limited Liability Act 1855, which in the event of a company's bankruptcy limited the liability of all shareholders to the amount of capital they had invested.\n\nThe beginning of modern company law came when the two pieces of legislation were codified under the Joint Stock Companies Act 1856 at the behest of the then Vice President of the Board of Trade, Mr Robert Lowe. That legislation shortly gave way to the railway boom, and from there the numbers of companies formed soared. In the later nineteenth century depression took hold, and just as company numbers had boomed, many began to implode and fall into insolvency. Much strong academic, legislative and judicial opinion was opposed to the notion that businessmen could escape accountability for their role in the failing businesses. The last significant development in the history of companies was the decision of the House of Lords in \"Salomon v. Salomon & Co.\" where the House of Lords confirmed the separate legal personality of the company, and that the liabilities of the company were separate and distinct from those of its owners.\n\nIn a December 2006 article, \"The Economist\" identified the development of the joint stock company as one of the key reasons why Western commerce moved ahead of its rivals in the Middle East in post-renaissance era.\n\nThe law of business organizations originally derived from the common law of England, and has evolved significantly in the 20th century. In common law countries today, the most commonly addressed forms are:\nThe proprietary limited company is a statutory business form in several countries, including Australia. Many countries have forms of business entity unique to that country, although there are equivalents elsewhere. Examples are the limited liability company (LLC) and the limited liability limited partnership (LLLP) in the United States. Other types of business organizations, such as cooperatives, credit unions and publicly owned enterprises, can be established with purposes that parallel, supersede, or even replace the profit maximization mandate of business corporations.\n\nThere are various types of company that can be formed in different jurisdictions, but the most common forms of company are:\nThere are, however, many specific categories of corporations and other business organizations which may be formed in various countries and jurisdictions throughout the world.\n\nOne of the key legal features of corporations are their separate legal personality, also known as \"personhood\" or being \"artificial persons\". However, the separate legal personality was not confirmed under English law until 1895 by the House of Lords in \"Salomon v. Salomon & Co.\" Separate legal personality often has unintended consequences, particularly in relation to smaller, family companies. In \"B v. B\" [1978] Fam 181 it was held that a discovery order obtained by a wife against her husband was not effective against the husband's company as it was not named in the order and was separate and distinct from him. And in \"Macaura v. Northern Assurance Co Ltd\" a claim under an insurance policy failed where the insured had transferred timber from his name into the name of a company wholly owned by him, and it was subsequently destroyed in a fire; as the property now belonged to the company and not to him, he no longer had an \"insurable interest\" in it and his claim failed.\n\nSeparate legal personality allows corporate groups flexibility in relation to tax planning, and management of overseas liability. For instance in \"Adams v. Cape Industries plc\" it was held that victims of asbestos poisoning at the hands of an American subsidiary could not sue the English parent in tort. Whilst academic discussion highlights certain specific situations where courts are generally prepared to \"pierce the corporate veil\", to look directly at, and impose liability directly on the individuals behind the company; the actually practice of piercing the corporate veil is, at English law, non-existent. However, the court will look beyond the corporate form where the corporation is a sham or perpetuating a fraud. The most commonly cited examples are:\n\nHistorically, because companies are artificial persons created by operation of law, the law prescribed what the company could and could not do. Usually this was an expression of the commercial purpose which the company was formed for, and came to be referred to as the company's \"objects\", and the extent of the objects are referred to as the company's capacity. If an activity fell outside the company's capacity it was said to be \"ultra vires\" and void.\n\nBy way of distinction, the organs of the company were expressed to have various \"corporate powers\". If the objects were the things that the company was able to do, then the powers were the means by which it could do them. Usually expressions of powers were limited to methods of raising capital, although from earlier times distinctions between objects and powers have caused lawyers difficulty. Most jurisdictions have now modified the position by statute, and companies generally have capacity to do all the things that a natural person could do, and power to do it in any way that a natural person could do it.\n\nHowever, references to corporate capacity and powers have not quite been consigned to the dustbin of legal history. In many jurisdictions, directors can still be liable to their shareholders if they cause the company to engage in businesses outside its objects, even if the transactions are still valid as between the company and the third party. And many jurisdictions also still permit transactions to be challenged for lack of \"corporate benefit\", where the relevant transaction has no prospect of being for the commercial benefit of the company or its shareholders.\n\nAs artificial persons, companies can only act through human agents. The main agent who deals with the company's management and business is the board of directors, but in many jurisdictions other officers can be appointed too. The board of directors is normally elected by the members, and the other officers are normally appointed by the board. These agents enter into contracts on behalf of the company with third parties.\n\nAlthough the company's agents owe duties to the company (and, indirectly, to the shareholders) to exercise those powers for a proper purpose, generally speaking third parties' rights are not impugned if it transpires that the officers were acting improperly. Third parties are entitled to rely on the ostensible authority of agents held out by the company to act on its behalf. A line of common law cases reaching back to \"Royal British Bank v Turquand\" established in common law that third parties were entitled to assume that the internal management of the company was being conducted properly, and the rule has now been codified into statute in most countries.\n\nAccordingly, companies will normally be liable for all the act and omissions of their officers and agents. This will include almost all torts, but the law relating to crimes committed by companies is complex, and varies significantly between countries.\n\nCorporate governance is primarily the study of the power relations among a corporation's senior executives, its board of directors and those who elect them (shareholders in the \"general meeting\" and employees). It also concerns other stakeholders, such as creditors, consumers, the environment and the community at large. One of the main differences between different countries in the internal form of companies is between a two-tier and a one tier board. The United Kingdom, the United States, and most Commonwealth countries have single unified boards of directors. In Germany, companies have two tiers, so that shareholders (and employees) elect a \"supervisory board\", and then the supervisory board chooses the \"management board\". There is the option to use two tiers in France, and in the new European Companies (Societas Europaea).\n\nRecent literature, especially from the United States, has begun to discuss corporate governance in the terms of management science. While post-war discourse centred on how to achieve effective \"corporate democracy\" for shareholders or other stakeholders, many scholars have shifted to discussing the law in terms of principal–agent problems. On this view, the basic issue of corporate law is that when a \"principal\" party delegates his property (usually the shareholder's capital, but also the employee's labour) into the control of an \"agent\" (i.e. the director of the company) there is the possibility that the agent will act in his own interests, be \"opportunistic\", rather than fulfill the wishes of the principal. Reducing the risks of this opportunism, or the \"agency cost\", is said to be central to the goal of corporate law.\nThe rules for corporations derive from two sources. These are the country's statutes: in the US, usually the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL); in the UK, the Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006); in Germany, the Aktiengesetz (AktG) and the Gesetz betreffend die Gesellschaften mit beschränkter Haftung (GmbH-Gesetz, GmbHG). The law will set out which rules are mandatory, and which rules can be derogated from. Examples of important rules which cannot be derogated from would usually include how to fire the board of directors, what duties directors owe to the company or when a company must be dissolved as it approaches bankruptcy. Examples of rules that members of a company would be allowed to change and choose could include, what kind of procedure general meetings should follow, when dividends get paid out, or how many members (beyond a minimum set out in the law) can amend the constitution. Usually, the statute will set out model articles, which the corporation's constitution will be assumed to have if it is silent on a bit of particular procedure.\n\nThe United States, and a few other common law countries, split the corporate constitution into two separate documents (the UK got rid of this in 2006). The memorandum of Association (or articles of incorporation) is the primary document, and will generally regulate the company's activities with the outside world. It states which objects the company is meant to follow (e.g. \"this company makes automobiles\") and specifies the authorised share capital of the company. The articles of association (or by-laws) is the secondary document, and will generally regulate the company's internal affairs and management, such as procedures for board meetings, dividend entitlements etc. In the event of any inconsistency, the memorandum prevails and in the United States only the memorandum is publicised. In civil law jurisdictions, the company's constitution is normally consolidated into a single document, often called the charter.\n\nIt is quite common for members of a company to supplement the corporate constitution with additional arrangements, such as \"shareholders' agreements\", whereby they agree to exercise their membership rights in a certain way. Conceptually a shareholders' agreement fulfills many of the same functions as the corporate constitution, but because it is a contract, it will not normally bind new members of the company unless they accede to it somehow. One benefit of shareholders' agreement is that they will usually be confidential, as most jurisdictions do not require shareholders' agreements to be publicly filed. Another common method of supplementing the corporate constitution is by means of \"voting trusts\", although these are relatively uncommon outside the United States and certain offshore jurisdictions. Some jurisdictions consider the company seal to be a part of the \"constitution\" (in the loose sense of the word) of the company, but the requirement for a seal has been abrogated by legislation in most countries.\n\nThe most important rules for corporate governance are those concerning the balance of power between the board of directors and the members of the company. Authority is given or \"delegated\" to the board to manage the company for the success of the investors. Certain specific decision rights are often reserved for shareholders, where their interests could be fundamentally affected. There are necessarily rules on when directors can be removed from office and replaced. To do that, meetings need to be called to vote on the issues. How easily the constitution can be amended and by whom necessarily affects the relations of power.\n\nIt is a principle of corporate law that the directors of a company have the right to manage. This is expressed in statute in the DGCL, where §141(a) states,\n\n(a) The business and affairs of every corporation organized under this chapter shall be managed by or under the direction of a board of directors, except as may be otherwise provided in this chapter or in its certificate of incorporation.\n\nIn Germany, §76 AktG says the same for the management board, while under §111 AktG the supervisory board's role is stated to be to \"oversee\" (\"überwachen\"). In the United Kingdom, the right to manage is not laid down in law, but is found in Part.2 of the Model Articles. This means it is a default rule, which companies can opt out of (s.20 CA 2006) by reserving powers to members, although companies rarely do. UK law specifically reserves shareholders right and duty to approve \"substantial non cash asset transactions\" (s.190 CA 2006), which means those over 10% of company value, with a minimum of £5,000 and a maximum of £100,000. Similar rules, though much less stringent, exist in §271 DGCL and through case law in Germany under the so-called \"Holzmüller-Doktrin\".\n\nProbably the most fundamental guarantee that directors will act in the members' interests is that they can easily be sacked. During the Great Depression, two Harvard scholars, Adolf Berle and Gardiner Means wrote \"The Modern Corporation and Private Property\", an attack on American law which failed to hold directors to account, and linked the growing power and autonomy of directors to the economic crisis. In the UK, the right of members to remove directors by a simple majority is assured under s.168 CA 2006 Moreover, Art.21 of the Model Articles requires a third of the board to put themselves up for re-election every year (in effect creating maximum three year terms). 10% of shareholders can demand a meeting any time, and 5% can if it has been a year since the last one (s.303 CA 2006). In Germany, where employee participation creates the need for greater boardroom stability, §84(3) AktG states that management board directors can only be removed by the supervisory board for an important reason (\"ein wichtiger Grund\") though this can include a vote of no-confidence by the shareholders. Terms last for five years, unless 75% of shareholders vote otherwise. §122 AktG lets 10% of shareholders demand a meeting. In the US, Delaware lets directors enjoy considerable autonomy. §141(k) DGCL states that directors can be removed without any cause, unless the board is \"classified\", meaning that directors only come up for re-appointment on different years. If the board is classified, then directors cannot be removed unless there is gross misconduct. Director's autonomy from shareholders is seen further in §216 DGCL, which allows for plurality voting and §211(d) which states shareholder meetings can only be called if the constitution allows for it. The problem is that in America, directors usually choose where a company is incorporated and §242(b)(1) DGCL says any constitutional amendment requires a resolution by the directors. By contrast, constitutional amendments can be made at any time by 75% of shareholders in Germany (§179 AktG) and the UK (s.21 CA 2006).\n\nIn most jurisdictions, directors owe strict duties of good faith, as well as duties of care and skill, to safeguard the interests of the company and the members. In many developed countries outside the English speaking world, company boards are appointed as representatives of both shareholders and employees to \"codetermine\" company strategy. Corporate law is often divided into corporate governance (which concerns the various power relations within a corporation) and corporate finance (which concerns the rules on how capital is used).\nDirectors also owe strict duties not to permit any conflict of interest or conflict with their duty to act in the best interests of the company. This rule is so strictly enforced that, even where the conflict of interest or conflict of duty is purely hypothetical, the directors can be forced to disgorge all personal gains arising from it. In \"Aberdeen Ry v. Blaikie\" (1854) 1 Macq HL 461 Lord Cranworth stated in his judgment that, However, in many jurisdictions the members of the company are permitted to ratify transactions which would otherwise fall foul of this principle. It is also largely accepted in most jurisdictions that this principle should be capable of being abrogated in the company's constitution. \nThe standard of skill and care that a director owes is usually described as acquiring and maintaining sufficient knowledge and understanding of the company's business to enable him to properly discharge his duties. This duty enables the company to seek compensation from its director if it can be proved that a director has not shown reasonable skill or care which in turn has caused the company to incur a loss. In many jurisdictions, where a company continues to trade despite foreseeable bankruptcy, the directors can be forced to account for trading losses personally. Directors are also strictly charged to exercise their powers only for a proper purpose. For instance, were a director to issue a large number of new shares, not for the purposes of raising capital but in order to defeat a potential takeover bid, that would be an improper purpose.\n\nRonald Coase has pointed out, all business organizations represent an attempt to avoid certain costs associated with doing business. Each is meant to facilitate the contribution of specific resources - investment capital, knowledge, relationships, and so forth - towards a venture which will prove profitable to all contributors. Except for the partnership, all business forms are designed to provide limited liability to both members of the organization and external investors. Business organizations originated with agency law, which permits an agent to act on behalf of a principal, in exchange for the principal assuming equal liability for the wrongful acts committed by the agent. For this reason, all partners in a typical general partnership may be held liable for the wrongs committed by one partner. Those forms that provide limited liability are able to do so because the state provides a mechanism by which businesses that follow certain guidelines will be able to escape the full liability imposed under agency law. The state provides these forms because it has an interest in the strength of the companies that provide jobs and services therein, but also has an interest in monitoring and regulating their behaviour.\n\nMembers of a company generally have rights against each other and against the company, as framed under the company's constitution. However, members cannot generally claim against third parties who cause damage to the company which results in a diminution in the value of their shares or others membership interests because this is treated as \"reflective loss\" and the law normally regards the company as the proper claimant in such cases.\n\nIn relation to the exercise of their rights, minority shareholders usually have to accept that, because of the limits of their voting rights, they cannot direct the overall control of the company and must accept the will of the majority (often expressed as \"majority rule\"). However, majority rule can be iniquitous, particularly where there is one controlling shareholder. Accordingly, a number of exceptions have developed in law in relation to the general principle of majority rule.\n\n\nThrough the operational life of the corporation, perhaps the most crucial aspect of corporate law relates to raising capital for the business to operate. The law, as it relates to corporate finance, not only provides the framework for which a business raises funds - but also provides a forum for principles and policies which drive the fundraising, to be taken seriously. Two primary methods of financing exists with regard to corporate financing, these are:\nEach has relative advantages and disadvantages, both at law and economically. Additional methods of raising capital necessary to finance its operations is that of retained profits Various combinations of financing structures have the capacity to produce fine-tuned transactions which, using the advantages of each form of financing, support the limitations of the corporate form, its industry, or economic sector.. A mix of both debt and equity is crucial to the sustained health of the company, and its overall market value is independent of its capital structure. One notable difference is that interest payments to debt is tax deductible whilst payment of dividends are not, this will incentivise a company to issue debt financing rather than preferred shares in order to reduce their tax exposure. \nA company limited by shares, whether public or private, must have at least one issued share; however, depending on the corporate structure, the formatting may differ. If a company wishes to raise capital through equity, it will usually be done by issuing shares. (sometimes called \"stock\" (not to be confused with stock-in-trade)) or warrants. In the common law, whilst a shareholder is often colloquially referred to as the owner of the company - it is clear that the shareholder is not an owner of the company but makes the shareholder a member of the company and entitles them to enforce the provisions of the company's constitution against the company and against other members. A share is an item of property, and can be sold or transferred. Shares also normally have a nominal or par value, which is the limit of the shareholder's liability to contribute to the debts of the company on an insolvent liquidation. Shares usually confer a number of rights on the holder. These will normally include:\nCompanies may issue different types of shares, called \"classes\" of shares, offering different rights to the shareholders depending on the underlying regulatory rules pertaining to corporate structures, taxation, and capital market rules. A company might issue both ordinary shares and preference shares, with the two types having different voting and/or economic rights. It might provide that preference shareholders shall each receive a cumulative preferred dividend of a certain amount per annum, but the ordinary shareholders shall receive everything else. Corporations will structure capital raising in this way in order to appeal to different lenders in the market by providing different incentives for investment. The total value of issued shares in a company is said to represent its \"equity capital\". Most jurisdictions regulate the minimum amount of capital which a company may have, although some jurisdictions prescribe minimum amounts of capital for companies engaging in certain types of business (e.g. banking, insurance etc.).\nSimilarly, most jurisdictions regulate the maintenance of equity capital, and prevent companies returning funds to shareholders by way of distribution when this might leave the company financially exposed. Often this extends to prohibiting a company from providing financial assistance for the purchase of its own shares.\n\nEvents such as mergers, acquisitions, insolvency, or the commission of a crime will adversely affect the corporation in its current form. At the end of the corporate lifecycle, a corporation may be \"wound up\" and enter into bankruptcy liquidation. This often arises when the corporation is unable to discharge its debts in a timely manner. Comparatively, a merger or acquisition can often mean the altering or extinguishing of the corporation. In addition to the creation of the corporation, and its financing, these events serve as a transition phase into either dissolution, or some other material shift. \n\nLiquidation is the normal means by which a company's existence is brought to an end. It is also referred to (either alternatively or concurrently) in some jurisdictions as \"winding up\" or \"dissolution\". Liquidations generally come in two forms — either \"compulsory liquidations\" (sometimes called \"creditors' liquidations\") and \"voluntary liquidations\" (sometimes called \"members' liquidations\", although a voluntary liquidation where the company is insolvent will also be controlled by the creditors, and is properly referred to as a \"creditors' voluntary liquidation\"). Where a company goes into liquidation, normally a liquidator is appointed to gather in all the company's assets and settle all claims against the company. If there is any surplus after paying off all the creditors of the company, this surplus is then distributed to the members.\n\nAs its names imply, applications for compulsory liquidation are normally made by creditors of the company when the company is unable to pay its debts. However, in some jurisdictions, regulators have the power to apply for the liquidation of the company on the grounds of public good, i.e., where the company is believed to have engaged in unlawful conduct, or conduct which is otherwise harmful to the public at large.\n\nVoluntary liquidations occur when the company's members decide voluntarily to wind up the affairs of the company. This may be because they believe that the company will soon become insolvent, or it may be on economic grounds if they believe that the purpose for which the company was formed is now at an end, or that the company is not providing an adequate return on assets and should be broken up and sold off.\n\nSome jurisdictions also permit companies to be wound up on \"just and equitable\" grounds. Generally, applications for just and equitable winding-up are brought by a member of the company who alleges that the affairs of the company are being conducted in a prejudicial manner, and asking the court to bring an end to the company's existence. For obvious reasons, in most countries, the courts have been reluctant to wind up a company solely on the basis of the disappointment of one member, regardless of how well-founded that member's complaints are. Accordingly, most jurisdictions that permit just and equitable winding up also permit the court to impose other remedies, such as requiring the majority shareholder(s) to buy out the disappointed minority shareholder at a fair value.\n\nInsider trading is the trading of a corporation's stock or other securities (e.g., bonds or stock options) by individuals with potential access to non-public information about the company. In most countries, trading by corporate insiders such as officers, key employees, directors, and large shareholders may be legal if this trading is done in a way that does not take advantage of non-public information. However, the term is frequently used to refer to a practice in which an insider or a related party trades based on material non-public information obtained during the performance of the insider's duties at the corporation, or otherwise in breach of a fiduciary or other relationship of trust and confidence or where the non-public information was misappropriated from the company. Illegal insider trading is believed to raise the cost of capital for securities issuers, thus decreasing overall economic growth.\n\nIn the United States and several other jurisdictions, trading conducted by corporate officers, key employees, directors, or significant shareholders (in the United States, defined as beneficial owners of ten percent or more of the firm's equity securities) must be reported to the regulator or publicly disclosed, usually within a few business days of the trade. Many investors follow the summaries of these insider trades in the hope that mimicking these trades will be profitable. While \"legal\" insider trading cannot be based on material non-public information, some investors believe corporate insiders nonetheless may have better insights into the health of a corporation (broadly speaking) and that their trades otherwise convey important information (e.g., about the pending retirement of an important officer selling shares, greater commitment to the corporation by officers purchasing shares, etc.)\n\nIn the United States, most corporations are incorporated, or organized, under the laws of a particular state. The laws of the state of incorporation normally governs a corporation's internal operations, even if the corporation's operations take place outside that state. Corporate law differs from state to state. Because of these differences, some businesses will benefit from having a corporate lawyer determine the most appropriate or advantageous state in which to incorporate.\n\nBusiness entities may also be regulated by federal laws and in some cases by local laws and ordinances.\n\nA majority of publicly traded companies in the U.S. are Delaware corporations. Some companies choose to incorporate in Delaware because the Delaware General Corporation Law offers lower corporate taxes than many other states. Many venture capitalists prefer to invest in Delaware corporations. Also, the Delaware Court of Chancery is widely recognized as a good venue for the litigation of business disputes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53976470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53976470", "title": "Criminal remedies for copyright infringement", "text": "Criminal remedies for copyright infringement\n\nRemedies for copyright infringement in the United States can be either civil or criminal in nature. Criminal remedies for copyright infringement prevent the unauthorized use of copyrighted works by defining certain violations of copyright to be criminal wrongs which are liable to be prosecuted and punished by the state. Unlike civil remedies, which are obtained through private civil actions initiated by the owner of the copyright, criminal remedies are secured by the state which prosecutes the infringing individual or organisation.\n\nThe criminal penalties imposed for copyright infringement vary between the copyright laws of different jurisdictions. However, the justifications for the imposition of criminal penalties are common in the sense that certain kinds of copyright violations are considered as egregious enough to warrant state interference. These kinds of copyright violations are seen as having a negative consequence affecting the entire community. A criminal conviction for copyright infringement is also more punitive compared to a civil penalty and this increases the value of the punishment as a deterrent to prevent such violations in the future. For these reasons, criminal penalties for copyright infringement are considered to be effective sanctions against violations.\n\nInternationally, Article 61 of the TRIPS Agreement requires member nations to provide for criminal procedures and penalties \"at least in cases of wilful trademark counterfeiting or copyright piracy on a commercial scale\". In addition to the coming into force of the TRIPS Agreement, the rapid development of computer software during the 1990s led to a significant expansion in the degree and imposition of criminal penalties for copyright infringement, especially in the decades towards the end of the 20th century. The scope for copyright infringement of electronic material has proliferated following the advent of the Internet and this has become an underpinning reason for calls by copyright owners to increase reliance on criminal penalties which have a deterrent effect. Nevertheless, there have also been arguments by scholars for reducing the severity of criminal copyright infringement penalties since such penalties could result in monopolistic profits for the copyright owner.\n\nCriminal provisions for copyright infringement were initially inserted into U.S. Copyright Law in 1897. But this crime was limited only to unlawful performances or representations of copyrighted dramatic works or musical compositions. The apparent reasoning behind such a narrow criminal provision was because of the difficulty faced by copyright owners of such works in detecting and punishing infringements of their works since these infringements were perpetrated by \"hit and run\"performing groups in remote areas far away from the location of the copyright owner's place of residence or work. The criminal intent or \"mens rea\" that is required to be shown in case of any criminal offence of copyright infringement was also provided for in the 1897 law and it had to be shown that the conduct of the infringing party was both \"wilful\" and \"for profit.\"\n\nThe U.S. Congress expanded the scope of the criminal remedies in the Copyright Act of 1909 by applying criminal provisions to infringements of all kinds of copyrighted works under the statute except sound recordings. Once again, the \"mens rea\" requirement for conviction of a criminal offence necessitated that the infringement was done \"wilfully\" and \"for profit.\" This confined most criminal convictions to large-scale commercial activities. Additionally, any person who \"knowingly and wilfully\" aided or abetted such infringement was also criminally liable under the statute. The criminal offences under the Copyright Act of 1909 were punishable as misdemeanours and entailed either imprisonment or fines at the discretion of the court. The criminal provisions under the old copyright law were interpreted rather generously by the judiciary and the evidentiary requirement of \"for profit\" was glossed over to mean that the infringing defendant's activities only needed to be for \"the \"purpose\"\" of profit and no actual generation of profits was necessary. Subsequently, in 1971, following lobbying by the sound recording industry, the U.S. Congress extended federal copyright protection to sound recordings as well \"vide\" the Sound Recording Act of 1971. This consequently led to criminal penalties being made available against wilful and for-profit infringement of sound recordings.\n\nThe criminal remedies for copyright infringement in the U.S. have been increasingly expanded in both scope and degree by legislative measures following the software and digital revolution beginning in the early 1990s.\n\nIn 1976, the U.S. Congress carried out, till date, the most recent general revision of the U.S. copyright law and the Copyright Act of 1976 was brought into force. The Copyright Act of 1976 is the copyright law currently in force in the U.S. While this Act continued to provide for criminal remedies to copyright infringement, it removed the crime of aiding or abetting such infringement which had been included in the 1909 statute. The \"mens rea\" requirement was also amended. Previously, under the 1909 statute, a person was criminally liable for copyright infringement if he or she committed the infringement \"wilfully\" and \"for profit\". While \"wilful\" commission of the infringement continued to remain a requirement for proving \"mens rea\", the words \"for profit\" were amended to read as \"for purposes of commercial advantage or private financial gain.\"\n\nSection 506(a) of the U.S. Copyright Act, 1976 (Title 17 of the U.S. Code) defines the offence of criminal infringement. However, the punishments prescribed for criminal copyright infringements are laid down under Section 2319 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code (Crimes and Criminal Procedure). This segregation initially came about in 1982 following representations by the Motion Picture Association of America, Inc. and the Recording Industry Association of America, Inc. that called for an increase in penalties for film and sound recording piracy and counterfeiting. These two trade associations asserted that civil infringement actions had little to no effect in deterring criminals engaged in piracy and counterfeiting activities of motion pictures and sound recordings and, moreover, that the modest penalties imposed for criminal infringement discouraged efforts to enforce the same. The U.S. Congress responded to these industrial copyright concerns by restructuring the criminal remedies for copyright infringement and by enacting certain felony provisions for copyright infringement under Section 2319 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code. These criminal copyright infringement provisions have been periodically amended in line with current developments and now encompass all copyrighted works. Most notably, Section 2319 of U.S.C. Title 18 was significantly amended by the Copyright Felony Act of 1992 which imposed felony penalties for mass piracy of all types of copyrighted works including computer programs while simultaneously lowering the threshold for imposing felony penalties. The criminal penalties under Section 2319 of 18 U.S.C. consist of substantially prohibitive sanctions comprising either imprisonment or fines or both. Section 506(b) also provides for the criminal forfeiture of the infringing property and subsequent destruction of the same at the conclusion of the forfeiture proceedings.\n\nThe No Electronic Theft (NET) Act was enacted by the U.S. Congress and came into effect in 1997. This Act amended Section 506 of the U.S. Copyright Act and the corresponding sections of the federal criminal code (Title 18 of the U.S. Code) in order to prohibit large-scale copyright infringement through the Internet. The NET Act revised Section 506 in order to close the \"\"LaMacchia\" Loophole\" which had emerged following the decision of the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts in the case of \"United States v. LaMacchia\" in 1994. Prior to the enactment of the NET Act, the law required that, in order to prosecute for criminal copyright infringement, the infringement be carried out for the purpose of commercial advantage or private financial gain. In the \"LaMacchia\" decision, the district court cast doubt on the effectiveness of the law by ruling that the commission of copyright infringement for non-commercial motives cannot be prosecuted under criminal copyright law. The NET Act removed this loophole by defining the term \"financial gain\" to include \"the receipt of anything of value, including the receipt of other copyrighted works\" and enabling prosecutors to pursue criminal infringement suits against infringers even in the absence of any private financial gain provided that the reproduction or distribution (even through electronic means) of the copies of the copyrighted works have a total retail value of more than $1000.\n\nIn 1998, the U.S. Congress adopted the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) which introduced criminal anti-circumvention provisions to prevent copyright infringement. This Act was enacted to implement the provisions of the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty in the U.S. and to prevent circumvention of Digital Rights Management systems. Section 1204 of the U.S. Copyright Act imposes serious criminal penalties on persons who wilfully and for purposes of commercial advantage or private financial gain, circumvent technological protection measures or traffic in any such circumvention technology. The DMCA distinguishes between first-time offenders and repeat offenders and the criminal sanctions that can be imposed are either imprisonment or fines, or both.\n\nThe U.S. Congress adopted the Intellectual Property Protection and Courts Amendments Act (also known as the Anti-Counterfeiting Amendments Act) in 2004. This law expanded criminal penalties to criminalize trafficking of counterfeit copyrighted works. The criminal remedies available under the Act include imprisonment for a term of not more than five years or a fine or both.\n\nIn 2005, the U.S. Congress adopted the Family Entertainment and Copyright Act which criminally penalised the wilful reproduction of works for commercial distribution. More specifically, it prohibited the recording of copyrighted audiovisual works like movies without the prior permission of the copyright owner from the public performance of such works in a theatre or other similar facility. This Act distinguishes between first-time offenders and repeat offenders and the criminal sanctions include a fine and/or imprisonment.\n\nThe Pro-IP Act, adopted by the U.S. Congress in 2008, markedly amended the U.S. copyright law concerning criminal remedies by converting to felonies many copyright infringement offences that were previously considered misdemeanours. This enhanced the criminal sanctions for infringements classified as felony offences.\n\nChapter XIII (Sections 63 to 70) of the Indian Copyright Act of 1957 addresses the subject of criminal offences for copyright violations in India.\n\nSection 63 of the Indian Copyright Act is the primary provision imposing criminal sanctions for copyright infringement or the violation of any other right conferred under the Indian Copyright Act. The \"mens rea\" requirement under the Indian law states that a person must \"knowingly\" infringe or abet the infringement of a copyrighted work. In contrast to the U.S. Copyright Act which removed criminal sanctions for abetting copyright infringement, a person who abets another in the infringement of a copyrighted work under the Indian copyright law is liable to criminal sanctions as per Section 63.\n\nA crucial difference between the Indian copyright law and the U.S. copyright law is that the Indian law prescribes both imprisonment and fine to be imposed by the court in case of a criminal copyright offences whereas the U.S. law allows the court to impose imprisonment and/or a fine. The Indian legislative policy regarding criminal copyright violations appears to favour imprisonment as a mandatory criminal sanction for copyright offences. However, the \"proviso\" to Section 63 allows the court to impose a lower punishment with regard to the term of imprisonment and the amount of fine if the infringement was not made for gain the course of trade or business. Section 63A of the Indian Copyright Act prescribes an enhanced penalty for repeat offenders of copyright infringement.\n\nThere has, however, been slight disagreement between the High Courts in India regarding question of whether a criminal offence is bailable or is non-bailable. The Delhi High Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court have held that offences under Section 63 and 63A are bailable. But, the Gauhati High Court has stated such criminal offences to be non-bailable. Furthermore, the Kerala High Court has held criminal offences under Section 63 to be cognizable in nature, meaning that a police officer may arrest an accused without a warrant for the alleged commission of a criminal offence under the Indian Copyright Act.\n\nSection 63B of the Indian Copyright Act was inserted by the Copyright (Amendment) Act of 1994 and it classifies the knowing use of an infringing copy of a computer programme by any person as an offence which is punishable with both fine as well as imprisonment. Where the computer programme has not been used for gain or in the course of trade or business, the court may, after recording its reasons, not impose any sentence of imprisonment and can reduce the amount of the minimum fine prescribed.\n\nSection 64 of the Indian Copyright Act affords power to a police officer, who is above or at the rank of a sub-inspector, to seize without warrant any infringing copies of copyrighted material if he or she believes that an offence under Section 63 is being, or is likely to be, committed. The constitutional validity of the power afforded to a police officer by this provision was upheld by the Rajasthan High Court in \"Girish Gandhi v. Union of India\".\n\nCognizance of offences under the Indian Copyright Act can only be taken by a Court of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the first class.\n\nThe Indian Copyright Act has two provisions to prevent circumvention of Digital Rights Management (DRM) systems. Sections 65A and 65B were both inserted following the Copyright (Amendment) Act of 2012. Section 65A deals with the protection of technological measures and imposes criminal sanctions on any person who circumvents an effective technological measure with the intention of infringing any of the rights conferred by the Indian Copyright Act. Note that Section 65A requires the \"mens rea\" element of \"intention\" to be shown and proved for a conviction under the said Section. This is a fairly high bar for conviction which is in contradistinction to the U.S. Copyright Act (as amended by the DMCA) which does not require proof of \"intention\" in case of a circumvention of a technological measure by any person. The DMCA effectively classifies this kind of an offence as a strict liability offence. Compared to the DMCA, the exceptions under the Indian Copyright Act are also much broader since: \nSection 65B addresses the issue of protection of Right Management Information and imposes a criminal sanction consisting of both imprisonment as well as fine on any person who knowingly commits such offence. The criminal penalties provided for under this section are in addition to the civil remedies provide for under Chapter XII of the Act.\n\nThe DRM provisions introduced by the 2012 Amendment of the Indian Copyright Act have been criticised by certain commentators since India is not a party to either the WIPO Copyright Treaty or the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty and had no obligation to enact such provisions. In effect, these two provisions have been criticised for creating a para-copyright regime which affords greater protection to DRM-protected works while detrimentally affecting the fair dealing defence available to the general public under Section 52 of the Indian Copyright Act.\n"}
{"id": "6414015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6414015", "title": "Cursores", "text": "Cursores\n\nCursores is the plural of the Latin Cursor, 'runner'. There have been various corps of auxiliary officers in various institutions by that name.\n\nAt universities, the term has been used for the candidates for the license.\n\nThis was the Latin title of the ecclesiastical heralds or pursuivants pertaining to the papal court. \n\nTheir origin is placed in the twelfth century, and they fulfilled for the pontifical government the duties entrusted to heralds by civil states. From the sixteenth century onward they formed part of the Roman Curia in its broader sense, and are reckoned members of the pontifical family. They carried a club-shaped beaten silver mace (\"mazza\"), like the mazzieri and the Swiss guard vergers. Their number has been fixed at nineteen, and they are subject to the major-domo.\nThe principal duties of the cursores are to invite those who are to take part in consistories and functions in the papal chapel; to act as servitors in the pontifical palace and as doorkeepers of the conclave; to affix papal rescripts to the doors of the greater Roman basilicas; to issue the summons for attendance at canonizations, the funerals of cardinals etc. As representatives of the pope, the cursores must be received with the respect becoming the personage in whose name they speak, and their invitation has the force of a judicial summons.\nIn the early ages of the Church, an institution somewhat similar to that of the cursores is found in messengers, chosen from among the clergy, to carry important tidings from one bishop to another or from the bishop to his flock. They were much used in times of persecution and they are frequently referred to in the writings of the Fathers as \"praecones, internuntii\" etc. As guardians of the assemblies of the faithful, they were called \"vigiliae\" 'watchmen'. Despite these resemblances to the modern cursores, it seems evident that the latter took their rise from the employment of heralds by civil states, rather than from the praecones of the early Church. Episcopal courts have likewise cursores or apparitors among their officials. \n\nIn Rome the custom, which became exclusive during the fifteenth century, developed of having the new canonic laws read and posted up by cursores at Rome only, at the doors of the basilica majors, the Palazzo Cancellaria, the Campo de’ fiori and sometimes at the Capitol, as a means of promulgation.\n\n"}
{"id": "13310304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13310304", "title": "Declaration of Interdependence", "text": "Declaration of Interdependence\n\nThere have been a number of documents designated as the Declaration of Interdependence since at least the 1930s.\n\nUS Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace used the term in relation to the Farm Act of 1933 in a radio address broadcast on May 13 of that year, and apparently used the phrase again in 1936 in relation to \"interdependence among nations and cultures.\" Later that year the phrase was quoted in Walter P. Taylor's essay \"What is Ecology and What Good is it?\" in the journal \"Ecology\" Vol. 17 (July 1936). This was the first use of the phrase in an ecological context.\nOn April 8, 1944 American philosopher and historian Will Durant was approached by two leaders of the Jewish and Christian faiths, Meyer David and Dr. Christian Richard about starting \"a movement, to raise moral standards.\" He suggested instead that they start a movement against racial intolerance and outlined his ideas for a \"Declaration of Interdependence\". The movement for the declaration, Declaration of INTERdependence, Inc., was launched at a gala dinner at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel on March 22, 1945 attended by over 400 people including Thomas Mann and Bette Davis. The Declaration was read into the \"Congressional Record\" on October 1, 1945 by Ellis E. Patterson.\n\nIn 1969 Cliff Humphrey, founder of Ecology Action, drafted a \"Unanimous Declaration of Interdependence\" and published it in \"Whole Earth Catalogue Supplement\" September 1969.\n\nIn 1976 two \"Declarations of Interdependence\" were presented to the public. One was the \"Greenpeace Declaration of Interdependence\" published by Greenpeace in the \"Greenpeace Chronicles\" (Winter 1976-77). This declaration was a condensation of a number of ecological manifestos Bob Hunter had written over the years. The “Three basic Laws of Ecology,” mentioned in the text were developed by Patrick Moore, with inspiration from the writings of Barry Commoner\n\nAnother Declaration of Interdependence was drafted by Henry Steele Commager and presented to the World Affairs Councils of Philadelphia on October 24, 1975. It was signed in a ceremonial signing on January 30, 1976 at Congress Hall, Independence National Historical Park, Philadelphia by several members of Congress. It was also \"endorsed\" by a number of non-governmental organizations and United Nations specialized agencies.\n\nA document entitled \"Declaration of interdependence: a new global ethics\" was adopted by the board of directors of the International Humanist and Ethical Union on 31 December 1988.\n\nDavid Suzuki wrote a Declaration of Interdependence in 1992 for that year's Earth Summit. It is currently being promoted by his foundation.\n\nThe PM Declaration of Interdependence, a statement of management principles for software, was published in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "15153137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15153137", "title": "Divorce in the United States", "text": "Divorce in the United States\n\nLike marriage, divorce in the United States is under the jurisdiction of state governments, not the federal government. Divorce or \"dissolution of marriage\" is a legal process in which a judge or other authority dissolves the bonds of matrimony existing between two persons, thus restoring them to the status of being single and permitting them to marry other individuals. The legal process for divorce may also involve issues of spousal support, child custody, child support, distribution of property and division of debt, though these matters are usually only ancillary or consequential to the dissolution of the marriage.\n\nThe women's rights movement extensively debated the issue of whether to allow divorce, with Jane Swisshelm and Elizabeth Cady Stanton as early voices in favor, and Horace Greeley and Antoinette Brown Blackwell opposed. Unlike other issues, the movement was unable to achieve agreement on this issue. Stanton eventually coming to the view that the reform of marriage laws was more important than women's voting rights. Lucy Stone changed her position on the issue over time. Against Stanton, she sought to remove the formal advocacy of divorce from any proposed women's platform. Stone wished to keep the subject separate, to prevent the appearance of moral laxity. In government, Robert Dale Owen proposed laws granting greater freedom of divorce. Owen's efforts influenced later laws on divorce. The National Woman Suffrage Association, founded in 1869, advocated for divorce reform among other issues. The concept of \"free divorce\" developed during the 19th century in conjunction with the concept of free love.\n\nPrior to the latter decades of the 20th century, a spouse seeking divorce in most states had to show a \"fault\" such as abandonment, cruelty, incurable mental illness, or adultery. Even in such cases, a divorce was barred in cases such as the suing spouse's procurement or connivance (contributing to the fault, such as by arranging for adultery), condonation (forgiving the fault either explicitly or by continuing to cohabit after knowing of it), or recrimination (the suing spouse also being guilty).\n\nBecause divorce was considered to be against the public interest, civil courts refused to grant a divorce if evidence revealed any hint of complicity between the husband and wife to divorce, or if they attempted to manufacture grounds for a divorce. Divorce was granted only because one party to the marriage had violated a sacred vow to the \"innocent spouse.\" If both husband and wife were guilty, \"neither would be allowed to escape the bonds of marriage.\"\n\nA number of strategies were devised to make divorce easier to obtain. \"[T]here were numerous ‘divorce mill’ states or places such as Indiana, Utah, and the Dakotas where you could go and get a divorce. Many towns provided accommodation, restaurants, bars and events centered on this trade.\" By 1909, however, Reno, Nevada was, and was happy to be, \"the divorce capital of the world.\" At that time, only six months in Nevada were sufficient to establish Nevada residency, and the Nevada courts, well aware of the contribution of divorce seekers to Nevada's hospitality industry, accepted the resident's uncorroborated statement that grounds for divorce, usually \"extreme cruelty,\" existed. In 1927, the Nevada Legislature, \"in response to a perceived threat to Reno’s divorce supremacy from France and Mexico and a divorce-trade war that had been going on since the end of World War I between Nevada, Idaho, and Arkansas,\" changed the residency period to three months, and in 1931, the same Legislature that voted in \"wide-open gambling\" dropped it to six weeks. Providing accommodations and other amenities for visitors, who could not leave Nevada during the six weeks, became a major Reno industry; greeters met the arriving trains, and there were a variety of divorce ranches. The U.S. Supreme Court, in \"Williams v. North Carolina\" (1942), ruled that other states had to recognize these divorces, under the \"full faith and credit\" clause of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nBy 1916, the U.S. led the world in number of divorces. In populous New York State, where adultery was the easiest grounds for divorce, attorneys would provide a package consisting of a prostitute and a photographer, with whose product divorce could be obtained. Significant numbers of divorce seekers went to the cities on the Mexican side of the Mexico-U.S. border, or to Haiti, where they found welcoming attorneys, who sometimes advertised in the U.S. The prevalence of the practice is reflected in the song \"Haitian Divorce,\" by Steely Dan.\n\nBy the 1960s, due to the emergence of second-wave feminism, the use of collusive or deceptive practices to bypass the fault system had become a widespread concern, if not actually a widespread practice, and there was widespread agreement that something had to change. The National Association of Women Lawyers was instrumental in convincing the American Bar Association to help create a Family Law section in many state courts, and pushed strongly for no-fault divorce law around 1960 (cf. Uniform Marriage and Divorce Act). In 1969, California became the first U.S. state to pass a no-fault divorce law.\n\nThe National Center for Health Statistics reports that from 1975 to 1988 in the US, in families with children present, wives file for divorce in approximately two-thirds of cases. In 1975, 71.4% of the cases were filed by women, and in 1988, 65% were filed by women.\n\nLenore Weitzman's 1985 book, \"The Divorce Revolution,\" reported a one-year post-divorce decline in standard of living for women of 73% compared with a 42% one-year post-divorce increase in standard of living for men. Richard Peterson later calculated a 27% decrease in standard of living for women and a 10% increase of standard of living for men, using the same data, which were gathered in California in 1977 and 1978.\n\nThe median length for a marriage in the US today is 11 years with 90% of all divorces being settled out of court. However, studies have shown that lower-income couples are currently more likely to get a divorce than higher-income couples. The divorce rate among highly educated couples is 11%, while the divorce rate for lower income couples is 17%.\n\nIn 2015, the Manhattan Supreme Court ruled that Ellanora Baidoo could serve her husband divorce papers through a Facebook message, and she became the first woman to legally serve her husband divorce papers via Facebook.\n\nDivorce in the U.S. is governed by state rather than federal law. The laws of the state(s) of residence at the time of divorce govern, not those of the location where the couple was married. All states recognize divorces granted by any other state. All states impose a minimum time of residence to file for a divorce, Nevada and Idaho currently being the shortest at six weeks.\n\nAll states allow no-fault divorce on grounds such as irreconcilable differences, irremediable breakdown, and loss of affection. Some states mandate a separation period before no-fault divorce. Mississippi, South Dakota and Tennessee are the only states that require mutual consent for no-fault divorce. The rest of the states permit unilateral no-fault divorce.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, a few states have enacted covenant marriage laws, which allow couples to voluntarily make a divorce more difficult for themselves to obtain than usual. For example, couples who choose to undertake a covenant marriage may be required to undergo counseling before a divorce can be granted, or to submit their conflicts to mediation. In states lacking such provisions, some couples sign contracts undertaking the same obligations.\n\nA summary (or simple) divorce, available in some jurisdictions, is used when spouses meet certain eligibility requirements, or can agree on key issues beforehand. For example, in order to qualify for summary divorce in California, a couple must meet all of the following requirements:\n\nThough divorce laws vary between jurisdiction, there are two basic approaches to divorce: fault-based and no-fault. Fault grounds, when available, are sometimes still sought. This may be done where it reduces the waiting period otherwise required, or possibly in hopes of affecting decisions related to a divorce, such as child custody, child support, alimony, and so on. A court may still take into account the behavior of the parties when dividing property, debts, evaluating custody, and support. States vary in the admissibility of such evidence for those decisions.\n\nUnder a no-fault divorce system the dissolution of a marriage does not require an allegation or proof of fault of either party. Only three states (Mississippi, South Dakota and Tennessee) require mutual consent (in Tennessee it is needed only in certain circumstances) for a no-fault divorce to be granted. No-fault grounds for divorce include incompatibility, irreconcilable differences, and irremediable breakdown of the marriage.\n\nFault divorces used to be the only way to break a marriage, and people who had differences, but did not qualify as \"at fault\", only had the option to separate (and were prevented from legally remarrying).\n\nHowever, there are ways (defenses) to prevent a fault divorce:\n\nA defense is expensive, and not usually practical as eventually most divorces are granted.\n\nComparative rectitude is a doctrine used to determine which spouse is more at fault when both spouses are guilty of breaches.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Government does not have the authority to issue a divorce. The state has the only authority over issuing accepting a marriage, and issuing a divorce. This creates the question of which state can you get divorced in? All states have rules for jurisdiction, which is typically a time frame the person filing the divorce has lived in the state. Most states require the person filing for a divorce to be a physical resident of the state for six months. Some states require twelve months and some states, like Nevada, only require six weeks. Without proper jurisdiction a state cannot issue a divorce.\n\nStates vary in their rules for division of assets in a divorce. The major difference is between states that use a community property system and states that do not. In community property states, community property belongs to the spouses equally. The following states use community property regimes: Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin. Alaskan law gives couples the option to create community property by written agreement.\n\nMost community property states start with the presumption that community assets will be divided equally, whereas \"equitable distribution\" states presume fairness may dictate more or less than half of the assets will be awarded to one spouse or the other. Commonly, assets acquired before marriage are considered individual, and assets acquired after, marital. Depending on the state, an equitable or equal division of assets is then sought.\n\nIn some states, educational degrees earned during the marriage may be considered marital property. In such states, a resolution of the divorce will often entail payment from the educated spouse to the other spouse a share of their expected future earnings that are due to a degree they earned during the marriage, and may require the expertise of labor economists or other statistical and financial experts.\n\nAlimony, also known as 'maintenance' or 'spousal support' is still being granted in many cases, especially in longer term marriages. Alimony is more likely in cases where a spouse has remedial needs that must be met in order for the spouse to become fully employable, for example that one spouse gave up career opportunities or development in order to devote themselves to the family.\n\nIn cases involving children, governments have a pressing interest in ensuring that disputes between parents do not spill over into the family courts. All states now require parents to file a parenting plan, or to decide on custody and visitation either by reaching a written agreement or in a court hearing, when they legally separate or divorce.\n\nThe spouse given custody (or the spouse with the greater share of residence time in the case of joint custody), may receive assets to compensate their greater child-care expenses.\n\nCollaborative divorce (uncontested divorce) is becoming a popular method for divorcing couples to come to agreement on divorce issues. In a collaborative divorce, the parties negotiate an agreed resolution with the assistance of attorneys who are trained in the collaborative divorce process and in mediation, and often with the assistance of a neutral financial specialist and/or divorce coach(es). The parties are empowered to make their own decisions based on their own needs and interests, but with complete information and full professional support. Once the collaborative divorce starts, the lawyers are disqualified from representing the parties in a contested legal proceeding, should the collaborative law process end prematurely. Most attorneys who practice collaborative divorce claim that it can be substantially less expensive than other divorce methods (regular divorce or mediation). However, should the parties not reach any agreements, any documents or information exchanged during the collaborative process cannot later be used in further legal proceedings, as the collaborative process is confidential proceedings. Furthermore, there are no set enforceable time lines for completion of a divorce using collaborative divorce.\n\nDivorce mediation is an alternative to traditional divorce litigation that attempts to help opposing spouses find common ground during the divorce process. In a divorce mediation session, a mediator facilitates the discussion between the husband and wife by assisting with communication and providing information and suggestions to help resolve differences. At the end of the mediation process, the separating parties will have typically developed a tailored divorce agreement that they can submit to the court. Parties to mediation do not need to retain attorneys. However, if the parties choose to retain attorneys their attorneys may be included in the mediation session. The mediator can provide both parties with information but will not offer advice to either. Divorce mediators may be attorneys, mental health professionals, or financial experts who have experience in divorce cases. Divorce mediation can be significantly less expensive than litigation. The adherence rate to mediated agreements is much higher than that of adherence to court orders.\n\nMany states allow for couples to file for a summary divorce based upon a jointly filed divorce petition. A summary divorce means the spouses have discussed the terms required by state law to issue a divorce and they have reached an mutual agreement. Almost, every state allow for this type of \"uncontested\" divorce. An uncontested joint divorce petition will often save a divorcing couple both time and money.\n\nSince the 1980s, federal legislation has been enacted affecting the rights and responsibilities of divorcing spouses. For example, federal welfare reform mandated the creation of child support guidelines in all 50 states in the 1980s. ERISA includes provisions for the division of qualified retirement accounts between divorcing spouses. The IRS established rules on ignoring alimony as a source of taxable income. Federal bankruptcy laws prohibit discharging in bankruptcy of alimony and child support obligations. COBRA allows a divorced spouse to obtain and maintain health insurance.\n\nA “qualified domestic relations order” (QDRO) is an order that creates or recognizes the existence of an alternate payee’s right to receive, or assigns to an alternate payee the right to receive, all or a portion of the benefits payable with respect to a participant under a retirement plan, and that includes certain information and meets certain other requirements.\n\nA domestic relations order is a judgment, decree, or order (including the approval of a property settlement) that is made pursuant to state domestic relations law (including community property law) and that relates to the provision of child support, alimony payments, or marital property rights for the benefit of a spouse, former spouse, child, or other dependent of a participant.\n\nA state authority, generally a court, must actually issue a judgment, order, or decree or otherwise formally approve a property settlement agreement before it can be a domestic relations order under ERISA. The mere fact that a property settlement is agreed to and signed by the parties will not, in and of itself, cause the agreement to be a domestic relations order.\n\nAccording to a study published in the American Law and Economics Review, women file slightly more than two-thirds of divorce cases in the US.\nThere is some variation among states, and the numbers have also varied over time, with about 60% of filings by women in most of the 20th century, and over 70% by women in some states just after no-fault divorce was introduced, according to the paper.\n\nIn their 1997 study titled \"Child Custody Policies and Divorce Rates in the US,\" Kuhn and Guidubaldi find it reasonable to conclude that women anticipate advantages to being single, rather than remaining married. In their detailed analysis of divorce rates, Kuhn and Guidubaldi conclude that acceptance of joint physical custody may reduce divorce. States whose family law policies, statutes, or judicial practice encourage joint custody have shown a greater decline in their divorce rates than those that favor sole custody.\n\n\"Rate of divorce\" usually refers to the number of divorces that occur in the population during a given period. However it is also used in common parlance to refer to the likelihood of a given marriage ending in divorce (as opposed to the death of a spouse).\n\nIn 2002 (latest survey data as of 2012), 29% of first marriages among women aged 15–44 were disrupted (ended in separation, divorce or annulment) within 10 years. Beyond the 10-year window, population survey data is lacking, but forecasts and estimates provide some understanding. It is commonly claimed that half of all marriages in the United States eventually end in divorce, an estimate possibly based on the fact that in any given year, the number of marriages is about twice the number of divorces. Amato outlined in his study on divorce that in the late of 1990s, about 43% to 46% of marriages were predicted to end in dissolution. According to his research, there is only a small percentage of marriages end in permanent separation rather than divorce. Using 1995 data, National Survey of Family Growth forecast in 2002 a 43% chance that first marriages among women aged 15–44 would be disrupted within 15 years. More recently, having spoken with academics and National Survey of Family Growth representatives, PolitiFact.com estimated in 2012 that the lifelong probability of a marriage ending in divorce is 40%–50%.\n\nVariables that may affect rates of divorce include:\n\nA 2008 study by Jenifer L. Bratter and Rosalind B. King conducted on behalf of the Education Resources Information Center examined whether crossing racial boundaries increased the risk of divorce. Using the 2002 National Survey of Family Growth (Cycle VI), the likelihood of divorce for interracial couples to that of same-race couples was compared. Comparisons across marriage cohorts revealed that, overall, interracial couples have higher rates of divorce, particularly for those that married during the late 1980s. The authors found that gender plays a significant role in interracial divorce dynamics: According to the adjusted models predicting divorce as of the 10th year of marriage, interracial marriages that are the most vulnerable involve White females and non-White males (with the exception of White females/Hispanic White males) relative to White/White couples. White wife/Black husband marriages are twice as likely to divorce by the 10th year of marriage compared to White/White couples. Conversely, White men/non-White women couples show either very little or no differences in divorce rates. Asian wife/White husband marriages show only 4% greater likelihood of divorce by the 10th year of marriage than White/White couples. In the case of Black wife/White husband marriages, divorce by the 10th year of marriage is 44% less likely than among White/White unions. Intermarriages that did not cross a racial barrier, which was the case for White/Hispanic White couples, showed statistically similar likelihoods of divorcing as White/White marriages.\n\nA 2011 study at the University of Iowa found that a woman's loss of virginity before age 18 was correlated with a greater number of occurrences of divorce within the first 10 years of marriage.\n\nA 2012 study cited by Pew Research center found that an estimated 78% of women with bachelor's degrees, and 65% of men with bachelor's degrees who married between 2006-2010 can expect their marriages to last at least two decades. Women with a high school degree or less, on the other hand, face a meager 40% probability of their marriages surviving the same period.\n\nStudies have shown that men who \"earn high incomes have a decreased probability of getting a divorce\". However, higher income makes a woman's chances of marriage less likely and it has no connection to possible divorces. In recent years, divorce rates have gone down due to education rates going up. This is because educated individuals make higher incomes in most cases, which result in less financial stress when couples set down to get married. Lower income couples value and respect marriage just as much as higher income couples, however lower income couples are more likely to get a divorce because of financial strains on their marriage. Having low income is not the only factor that can potentially lead to divorce. Religious beliefs, morals and compatibility all come into play when it comes to long term marital statuses.\n\nThe following lists the number of divorces annually per 1,000 population in each state:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "826003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=826003", "title": "Export of cryptography from the United States", "text": "Export of cryptography from the United States\n\nThe export of cryptographic technology and devices from the United States was severely restricted by U.S. law until 1992, but was gradually eased until 2000; some restrictions still remain.\n\nSince World War II, many governments, including the U.S. and its NATO allies, have regulated the export of cryptography for national security reasons, and, as late as 1992, cryptography was on the U.S. Munitions List as an Auxiliary Military Equipment.\n\nDue to the enormous impact of cryptanalysis in World War II, these governments saw the military value in denying current and potential enemies access to cryptographic systems. Since the U.S. and U.K. believed they had better cryptographic capabilities than others, their intelligence agencies tried to control \"all\" dissemination of the more effective crypto techniques. They also wished to monitor the diplomatic communications of other nations, including those emerging in the post-colonial period and whose position on Cold War issues was vital.\n\nThe First Amendment made controlling all use of cryptography inside the U.S. illegal, but controlling access to U.S. developments by others was more practical — there were no constitutional impediments.\n\nAccordingly, regulations were introduced as part of munitions controls which required licenses to export cryptographic methods (and even their description); the regulations established that cryptography beyond a certain strength (defined by algorithm and length of key) would not be licensed for export except on a case-by-case basis. This policy was also adopted elsewhere for various reasons. \n\nThe development and public release of Data Encryption Standard (DES) and asymmetric key techniques in the 1970s, the rise of the Internet, and the willingness of some to risk and resist prosecution, eventually made this policy impossible to enforce, and by the late 1990s it was being relaxed in the U.S., and to some extent elsewhere (e.g., France). As late as 1997, NSA officials in the US were concerned that the widespread use of strong encryption will frustrate their ability to provide SIGINT regarding foreign entities, including terrorist groups operating internationally. NSA officials anticipated that the American encryption software backed by an extensive infrastructure, when marketed, was likely to become a standard for international communications. In 1997, Louis Freeh, then the Director of the FBI, said\n\nIn the early days of the Cold War, the U.S. and its allies developed an elaborate series of export control regulations designed to prevent a wide range of Western technology from falling into the hands of others, particularly the Eastern bloc. All export of technology classed as 'critical' required a license. CoCom was organized to coordinate Western export controls.\n\nTwo types of technology were protected: technology associated only with weapons of war (\"munitions\") and dual use technology, which also had commercial applications. In the U.S., dual use technology export was controlled by the Department of Commerce, while munitions were controlled by the State Department. Since in the immediate post WWII period the market for cryptography was almost entirely military, the encryption technology (techniques as well as equipment and, after computers became important, crypto software) was included as a Category XIII item into the United States Munitions List. The multinational control of the export of cryptography on the Western side of the cold war divide was done via the mechanisms of CoCom.\n\nBy the 1960s, however, financial organizations were beginning to require strong commercial encryption on the rapidly growing field of wired money transfer. The U.S. Government's introduction of the Data Encryption Standard in 1975 meant that commercial uses of high quality encryption would become common, and serious problems of export control began to arise. Generally these were dealt with through case-by-case export license request proceedings brought by computer manufacturers, such as IBM, and by their large corporate customers.\n\nEncryption export controls became a matter of public concern with the introduction of the personal computer. Phil Zimmermann's PGP cryptosystem and its distribution on the Internet in 1991 was the first major 'individual level' challenge to controls on export of cryptography. The growth of electronic commerce in the 1990s created additional pressure for reduced restrictions.\n\nIn 1992, a deal between NSA and the Software Publishers Association made 40-bit RC2 and RC4 encryption easily exportable using a Commodity Jurisdiction (which transferred control from the State Department to the Commerce Department). At this stage Western governments had, in practice, a split personality when it came to encryption; policy was made by the military cryptanalysts, who were solely concerned with preventing their 'enemies' acquiring secrets, but that policy was then communicated to commerce by officials whose job was to support industry.\n\nShortly afterward, Netscape's SSL technology was widely adopted as a method for protecting credit card transactions using public key cryptography. Netscape developed two versions of its web browser. The \"U.S. edition\" supported full size (typically 1024-bit or larger) RSA public keys in combination with full size symmetric keys (secret keys) (128-bit RC4 or 3DES in SSL 3.0 and TLS 1.0). The \"International Edition\" had its effective key lengths reduced to 512 bits and 40 bits respectively (\"RSA_EXPORT\" with 40-bit RC2 or RC4 in SSL 2.0, SSL 3.0 and TLS 1.0), by zero-padding 88 bits of the normal 128-bit symmetric key. Acquiring the 'U.S. domestic' version turned out to be sufficient hassle that most computer users, even in the U.S., ended up with the 'International' version, whose weak 40-bit encryption could be broken in a matter of days using a single computer. A similar situation occurred with Lotus Notes for the same reasons.\n\nLegal challenges by Peter Junger and other civil libertarians and privacy advocates, the widespread availability of encryption software outside the U.S., and the perception by many companies that adverse publicity about weak encryption was limiting their sales and the growth of e-commerce, led to a series of relaxations in US export controls, culminating in 1996 in President Bill Clinton signing the Executive order 13026 transferring the commercial encryption from the Munition List to the Commerce Control List. Furthermore, the order stated that, \"the software shall not be considered or treated as 'technology'\" in the sense of Export Administration Regulations. The Commodity Jurisdiction process was replaced with a Commodity Classification process, and a provision was added to allow export of 56-bit encryption if the exporter promised to add \"key recovery\" backdoors by the end of 1998. In 1999, the EAR was changed to allow 56-bit encryption and 1024-bit RSA to be exported without any backdoors, and new SSL cipher suites were introduced to support this (\"RSA_EXPORT1024\" with 56-bit RC4 or DES). In 2000, the Department of Commerce implemented rules that greatly simplified the export of commercial and open source software containing cryptography, including allowing the key length restrictions to be removed after going through the Commodity Classification process.\n\n, non-military cryptography exports from the U.S. are controlled by the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security. Some restrictions still exist, even for mass market products, particularly with regard to export to \"rogue states\" and terrorist organizations. Militarized encryption equipment, TEMPEST-approved electronics, custom cryptographic software, and even cryptographic consulting services still require an export license(pp. 6–7). Furthermore, encryption registration with the BIS is required for the export of \"mass market encryption commodities, software and components with encryption exceeding 64 bits\" (). In addition, other items require a one-time review by, or notification to, BIS prior to export to most countries. For instance, the BIS must be notified before open-source cryptographic software is made publicly available on the Internet, though no review is required. Export regulations have been relaxed from pre-1996 standards, but are still complex. Other countries, notably those participating in the Wassenaar Arrangement, have similar restrictions.\n\nU.S. non-military exports are controlled by Export Administration Regulations (EAR), a short name for the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 15 chapter VII, subchapter C.\n\nEncryption items specifically designed, developed, configured, adapted or modified for military\napplications (including command, control and intelligence applications) are controlled by\nthe Department of State on the United States Munitions List.\n\nEncryption export terminology is defined in EAR part 772.1. In particular:\n\n\nExport destinations are classified by the EAR Supplement No. 1 to Part 740 into four \"country groups\" (A, B, D, E) with further subdivisions; a country can belong to more than one group. For the purposes of encryption, groups B, D:1, and E:1 are important:\n\n\nThe EAR Supplement No. 1 to Part 738 (Commerce Country Chart) contains the table with \"country restrictions\". If a line of table that corresponds to the country contains an X in the \"reason for control\" column, the export of a controlled item requires a license, unless an \"exception\" can be applied. For the purposes of encryption, the following three reasons for control are important:\n\n\nFor export purposes each item is classified with the Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) with the help of the Commerce Control List (CCL, Supplement No. 1 to the EAR part 774). In particular:\n\n\nAn item can be either self-classified, or a classification (\"review\") requested from the BIS. A BIS review is required for typical items to get the 5A992 or 5D992 classification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39138542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39138542", "title": "Gibraltar Legislative Council", "text": "Gibraltar Legislative Council\n\nThe Gibraltar Legislative Council was the legislature of Gibraltar created in 1950 and sat until the creation of the Gibraltar House of Assembly in 1969.\n\nPrior to 1950, the Governor-in-Council retained the legislative power in the then Crown colony. The creation of the legislature gave some limited autonomy, with seven members of the Legislative Council being elected from the 1950s on.\n\nThe legislature sat at the Legislative Council Building at John Mackintosh Square.\n\nElections were held every three years.\n\nIn an election held on 19 September 1956, ten candidates contested the seven elected seats. There was a turnout of 58.2 per cent, and the winners were Joshua Hassan, Abraham Serfaty, J. E. Alcantara, and Albert Risso, all of the Association for the Advancement of Civil Rights, two Independents, Solomon Seruya and Peter Isola, and one Commonwealth Party candidate, Joseph Triay.\n\nThe Legislative Council was responsible for overall affairs with local issues being dealt with by the Gibraltar City Council. With pressure from the United Nations, the British government merged the Legislative Council and City Council to a House of Assembly to give Gibraltar domestic powers to deal with its own affairs whilst diluting the Governor's powers.\n\nThe head of the legislature was initially Governor as President and then replaced by the Speaker, a member of the legislative council.\n\nBoth roles were filled by British appointments who were not Gibraltarians.\n\nClerk of the Legislative Council\n\nGeneral members of the council were elected by proportional representation.\n\n"}
{"id": "22629819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22629819", "title": "Great Council of Mechelen", "text": "Great Council of Mechelen\n\nFrom the 15th century onwards, the Great Council of the Netherlands at Mechelen (Dutch: \"De Grote Raad der Nederlanden te Mechelen\"; French: \"le grand conseil des Pays-Bas à Malines\"; German: \"der Grosse Rat der Niederlände zu Mecheln\") was the highest court in the Burgundian Netherlands. It was responsible for the Dutch-, French- and German-speaking areas. In Luxembourgish the phrase \"mir ginn op Mechelen\" (we'll go to Mechelen) still means playing one's last trump card. The Grote Raad first sat in the Schepenhuis in Mechelen then, from 1616, in the (old) palace of Margaretha of Austria on Keizerstraat.\n\nThe medieval rulers were assisted by advisers. Together with the ruler they formed the Council of State, also called the \"consilium\" or \"curia\". Gradually the council became more specialised, with separate financial, judicial and political council emerging.\n\nIn the Burgundian Netherlands, the councils initially travelled with the Duke. In 1473 Duke Charles the Bold decided to establish the council in a specific location, in Mechelen. The council took on the name of the Parliament of Mechelen. After Charles' death in 1477, this parliament was abolished by Charles' daughter Mary of Burgundy on the occasion of the issuing of the Great Privilege. This was the result of the constant struggle between the centralisation of the rulers and the particularism of the states. The French king was also against a parliament in Mechelen, as it would become a rival of the Parliament of Paris. Nonetheless, under Philip the Fair, the \"Great Council\" was again established in Mechelen in 1504, this time permanently, but without the addition of \"parliament\" to its name.\nIn the 16th century the territorial powers of the Great council grew. Through the establishment of authority by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor over Tournai, Utrecht, Friesland, Overijssel and Guelders, the council's territory now included all of the Seventeen Provinces.\n\nIn 1526 the construction of a new Seat for the Great Council started by the architect and Master Mason Rombout II Keldermans. This Brabantine Gothic project was abandoned in 1547 —with little more than the ground floor built. The council was losing power and influence. After the Eighty Years' War, the Dutch Republic became independent. In the Northern Netherlands, the judicial power was taken over by the provincial council and the Supreme court of Holland, Zeeland and West-Friesland (1582). The Great Council of Mechelen remained active in the remaining Southern Netherlands, of which France annexed the southern province of Artois and parts of Flanders, Hainaut and Luxembourg. A number of provincial councils declared themselves independent from the Great Council: in the beginning of the 16th century the councils of Brabant and Hainaut did this, and in the late 18th century (1782) the judicial councils of Luxembourg and Tournai as well. This left the Great Council only Flanders, Mechelen, Namur and Upper Guelders.\n\nThe Great Council was abolished during the French Revolution. During the first French invasion in 1792, the Council moved to Roermond, where it watched over the last unoccupied lands, the twelve remaining municipalities of Austrian Guelders. During the second French invasion in 1794, part of the council members moved to Regensburg and Augsburg, in imperial territory; another part chose for the new regime and became part of the new judicial organisation.\n\nThe composition of the Great Council was noticeably stable throughout the centuries. It had one chairman or president, 15 to 16 councillors, one procureur-general, one replacement procureur-general, one fiscal advocate, 10 paid secretaries, two or three clerks, advocates and lastly Huissier de justice. Of the councillors, who wore red vestments, traditionally four were clerical, later lessened to two. All councillors were appointed by the ruler from a list of candidates of the Council itself. They had to be licentiate or doctor in law at one of the universities in the ruler's lands.\n\nThe following people were council members:\n\nThe president was appointed for life by the monarch. Normally noble lords were chosen, they had the right to change their coats of arms with heraldic maces.\n\nThe President was the direct contact between the Council and the Emperor, he had great influence and played often a major part in local history or even beyond. Many Presidents had a great international network that allowed them to enlarge their social status.\n\nImpressive buildings built by the councillors include:\n\nThe competence of the Great Council strongly fluctuated from period to period and from province to province. In the small lordship of Mechelen, it controlled practically all legislative and executive power. It was also the court, for both initial charges and appeals for persons and institutions that fell under royal protection. Members of the court, knights of the Order of the Golden Fleece, and everyone who was privileged through title or function could only be judged before the Great Council. For the rest the Council functioned as a court of appeal and a court of cassation over all sentences made by provincial justice councils and other, lower, courts in the Seventeen Provinces (or what remained of it later on). The Great Council also treated issues of privileges, mandates, letters of commendation, letters of marque, donations of functions and goods, gifts and other taxes, confiscation of property, jurisdiction conflicts between separate government institutions, and also border conflicts.\nAppeals against judicial rulings were also handled, but generally only against serious cases. On the other hand, family rights and inheritance usually fell under the jurisdiction of the church courts.\n\nArchives of the Great Council of Mechelen can be found in the National and Provincial State Archives in Brussels and the Archives Départementales du Nord in Lille. Because it held jurisdiction over large areas and widely ranging subjects during its three centuries of existence, the Great Council takes an important place in the Legal history of the Netherlands and Belgium.\n\nA calendar of the memorials of the Great Council edited by Arthur Gaillard has been published in two volumes under the title \"Inventaire des mémoriaux du Grand Conseil de Malines\" (Brussels, P. Weissenbruch, 1900–1903).\n\n"}
{"id": "6027935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6027935", "title": "Hammer and pick", "text": "Hammer and pick\n\nThe hammer and pick, rarely referred to as hammer and chisel, is a symbol of mining, often used in heraldry. It can indicate mining, mines (especially on maps or in cartography), or miners, and is also borne as a charge in the coats of arms of mining towns.\n\nThe symbol represents the traditional tools of the miner, a hammer and a chisel on a handle, similar to a pickaxe, but with one blunt end. They are pictured in the way a right-handed worker would lay them down: the pick with the point to the right and the handle to the lower left, the hammer with the handle to the lower right and the head to the upper left. The handle of the pick protrudes over the head, because the head is not permanently fixed, but can be swapped for a newly sharpened head when it is blunt from use. In coats of arms the symbol is often shown in black (Johanngeorgenstadt, Hövels), but also in natural colours (Telnice) or in gold and/or silver (Abertamy, Bodenwöhr, Gelsenkirchen).\n\nThe hammer and pick is used to indicate the working day, on timetables.\n\nIn Unicode, the \"hammer and pick\" symbol is U+2692 ⚒.\n\n"}
{"id": "44592083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44592083", "title": "Impeachment in Ukraine", "text": "Impeachment in Ukraine\n\nImpeachment in Ukraine is an expressed power of the legislature that allows for formal charges against the President. Article 111 of the Ukrainian Constitution states that \"The President of Ukraine may be removed from office ... by the majority of the constitutional composition of the ... Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine by the procedure of impeachment, in the event that he or she commits state treason or other crime.\"\n\nImpeachment can also occur for People's Deputies of Ukraine.\n\nThe issue of the removal of the President of Ukraine from office by the procedure of impeachment is initiated by the majority of the constitutional composition of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, which is 226 votes. To conduct the investigation, the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine establishes a special temporary investigatory commission whose composition includes a special Prosecutor and special investigators. The conclusions and proposals of the temporary investigatory commission are considered at a meeting of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. For cause, the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, by no less than two-thirds of its constitutional composition, adopts a decision on the accusation of the President of Ukraine. The decision on the removal of the President of Ukraine from office by the procedure of impeachment is adopted by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine by no less than three-quarters of its constitutional composition, after the review of the case by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as well as the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the receipt of its opinion on the observance of the constitutional procedure of investigation and consideration of the case of impeachment, and the receipt of the opinion of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to the effect that the acts, of which the President of Ukraine is accused, contain elements of state treason or other crime.\n\nIn the event of the pre-term termination of authority of the President of Ukraine in accordance with Articles 108, 109, 110 and 111 of Constitution, the execution of duties of the President of Ukraine, for the period pending the elections and the assumption of office of the new President of Ukraine, shall be vested in the Chairperson of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine. The Chairperson of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, for the period of executing the duties of the President of Ukraine, shall not exercise the powers envisaged by subparagraphs 2, 6-8, 10-13, 22, 24, 25, 27, and 28 of Article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine.\n\nThe Ukrainian revolution of February 2014 took place after a series of violent events towards protesters in the capital of Kiev that culminated with the flight and subsequent impeachment of the then-President of Ukraine. While articles of impeachment against Viktor Yanukovych were passed by the Verkhovna Rada Committee in 2014, on February 22, 2014 MPs voted to \"remove Viktor Yanukovych from the post of president of Ukraine\" on the grounds that he was unable to fulfill his duties and to hold early presidential elections on May 25. The vote came an hour after Yanukovych said in a televised address that he would not resign. He subsequently declared himself to still be \"the legitimate head of the Ukrainian state elected in a free vote by Ukrainian citizens\".\n\nThe action did not follow the impeachment process as specified by the Constitution of Ukraine (which would have involved formally charging the president with a crime, a review of the charge by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and a three-fourths majority vote – i.e. at least 338 votes in favor – by the Rada); instead, the Verkhovna Rada declared that Yanukovych \"withdrew from his duties in an unconstitutional manner\" and cited \"circumstances of extreme urgency\" as the reason for early elections. Oleksandr Turchynov was then voted by parliament Chairman of the Ukrainian Parliament and acting President and Prime Minister of Ukraine.\n\nArticle 80 of the Ukrainian Constitution states that the parliamentary immunity is guaranteed to the peoples' deputies of Ukraine. The peoples' deputies of Ukraine do not carry a legal responsibility for the results of voting and their saying in the parliament and its bodies, except the responsibility for an insult or a defamation. The peoples' deputies of Ukraine cannot be held criminally liable, detained or arrested without the agreement of the Verkhovna Rada.\n"}
{"id": "4321381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4321381", "title": "Insurable interest", "text": "Insurable interest\n\nInsurable interest, It exists when an insured person derives a financial or other kind of benefit from the continuous existence, without impairment or damage, of the insured object (or in the case of a person, their continued survival). A person has an insurable interest in something when loss of or damage to that thing would cause the person to suffer a financial or other kind of loss.\n\nTypically, insurable interest is established by ownership, possession, or direct relationship. For example, people have insurable interests in their own homes and vehicles, but not in their neighbors' homes and vehicles, and almost certainly not those of strangers.\n\nThe \"factual expectancy test\" and \"legal interest test\" are the two major concepts of insurable interest.\n\nThe development of the concept of insurable interest as a prerequisite for the purchase of insurance distanced the insurance business from gambling, thereby enhancing the industry's reputation and leading to greater acceptance of the insurance industry. The United Kingdom was a leader in that trend by passing legislation that prohibited insurance contracts if no insurable interest could be proven, notably the Marine Insurance Act 1745 (which introduced the concept of an insurable interest, although it did not use the term expressly), the Life Assurance Act 1774 which renders such life insurance contracts illegal, and the Marine Insurance Act 1906, s.4 which renders such contracts void.\n\nIn 1806 Lord Eldon LC sitting in English House of Lords in \"Lucena v Craufurd\" (1806) 2 Bos & PNR 269 sought to define an insurable interest, and although that definition is often used, modern commentators regard it as unsatisfactory. Lord Eldon defined it as \"a right in property, or a right derivable out of some contract about the property, which in either case may be lost upon some contingency affecting the possession or enjoyment of the party\".\n\nInsurable interest refers to the right of property to be insured. It may also mean the interest of a beneficiary of a life insurance policy to prove need for the proceeds, called the \"insurable interest doctrine\". Specifically, insurable interest is:\nInsurable interest is no longer strictly an element of life insurance contracts under modern law. Exceptions include viatication agreements and charitable donations.\n\nThe principle of insurable interest on life insurance is that a person or organization can obtain an insurance policy on the life of another person if the person or organization obtaining the insurance values the life of the insured more than the amount of the policy. In this way, insurance can compensate for loss. A company may have an insurable interest in a President/CEO or other employee with special knowledge and skills. A creditor has an insurable interest in the life of a debtor, up to the amount of the loan. A person who is financially dependent on a second person has an insurable interest in the life of that second person.\n\nLegal guidelines have been established in many jurisdictions which establish the kinds of family relationships for which an insurable interest exists. The insurable interest of family members is assumed to be emotional as well as financial. The law allows insurable interest on the presumption that a personal connection makes the family member more valuable alive than dead. Thus, husbands/wives have an insurable interest in their spouse, and children have an insurable interest in their parents (and vice versa). Brothers/sisters and grandchildren/grandparents are also assumed to have an insurable interest in the lives of those relatives. But cousins, nieces/nephews, aunts/uncles, stepchildren/stepparents and in-laws cannot buy insurance on the lives of others related by these connections.\n\nA person is presumed to have an insurable interest in his or her own life, preferring to be alive and in good health rather than being sick, injured or dead. The unlimited interest extends to the life of spouses (and, since 2004, civil partners), even if there is no financial dependency.\n\nLaw in the United Kingdom does not recognize other classes of so-called 'natural affection' however, thus:\n\n\nNor is insurable interest recognized for cohabiting couples. Although many insurers will accept such policies, they could potentially be invalidated because they have not been tested in court. In recent years, there have been moves to pass clear statutory provisions in this regard, which have not yet borne fruit.\n\nIn practice these problems are solved by people assigning their policies or placing them in trust with named beneficiaries. If a person obtains an insurance policy on their own life, it is presumed that the person would only name a beneficiary who wants the insured to be alive and healthy. There is no requirement that the beneficiary have a proven insurable interest in the life of the insured when the insured has purchased the insurance.\n\nIn 2008, the Scottish Law Commission and the Law Commission of England and Wales tentatively proposed some reforms to the existing law, hoping to clarify the complex rules. Their preliminary recommendations included increasing the category of 'natural affection' to include dependent children and parents and also cohabitees. Officially this is still under review.\n\nIn \"eConned\", Yves Smith argues that credit default swaps were/are used to take out insurance-like contracts against financial products in which buyers had no insurable interest. This was related to the financial crisis of 2008 because hedge funds and others allegedly helped produce bad subprime mortgages on purpose so that they could buy insurance on them, and then profit when the home buyers failed to make payments.\n\n"}
{"id": "12500992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12500992", "title": "International constitutional law", "text": "International constitutional law\n\nInternational constitutional law is the study of constitutions in general, and combines aspects of constitutional law, public international law and legal theory. It adds international and transnational treaties to constitutional law. In federal states, subnational constitutions can also be identified. In this multi-level approach to constitutional law there are various relationships between constitutions (network of constitution law).\n\n\nSee with regard to comparative constitutional law as part of ICL:\n"}
{"id": "4395648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4395648", "title": "Irenicism", "text": "Irenicism\n\nIrenicism in Christian theology refers to attempts to unify Christian apologetical systems by using reason as an essential attribute. The word is derived from the Greek word \"ειρήνη (eirene)\" meaning peace. It is a concept related to natural theology and opposed to polemicism (war-like argumentation) being rooted in the ideals of pacifism. Those who affiliate themselves with irenicism identify the importance of unity in the Christian church, and declare the common bond between all Christians under Christ.\n\nDesiderius Erasmus was a Christian humanist and reformer, in the sense of checking clerical abuses, honoring inner piety, considering reason as meaningful in theology as in other ways. He also promoted the notion that Christianity must remain under one church, both theologically and literally; under the body of the Catholic Church. Since his time, irenicism has postulated removing conflicts between different Christian creeds by way of mediation and gradual amalgamation of theological differences. Erasmus wrote extensively on topics related generally to peace, and an irenic approach is part of the texture of his thought, both on theology and in relation to politics:\n\nDespite the frequency and severity of polemics directed against him, Erasmus continued ... to practice a kind of discourse that is critical and ironic, yet modest and irenic. \n\nCertain important irenic contributions from Erasmus helped to further the humanist consideration of themes of peace and religious conciliation; these included the \"Inquisitio de fide\" (1524), arguing against the papal opinion that Martin Luther was a heretic, and \"De sarcienda ecclesiae concordia\" (1533). Erasmus had close associates sharing his views (Julius von Pflug, Christoph von Stadion, and Jakob Ziegler), and was followed on the Catholic side by George Cassander and Georg Witzel. \n\nThe influence of Erasmus was, however, limited, by the virtual exclusion of his works from countries such as France, from 1525, at least in the open; though they did appear in numerous forms and translations. James Hutton speaks of \"the surreptitious manner in which Erasmus' peace propaganda reached the French public.\"\n\nFranciscus Junius published in 1593 \"Le paisible Chrestien\" arguing for religious tolerance and Ecumenism. He addressed Philip II of Spain, using arguments taken from the French \"politique\" statesman Michel de l'Hôpital and reformer Sebastian Castellio.\n\nIrenic movements were influential in the 17th century, and irenicism, for example in the form of Gottfried Leibniz's efforts to reunite Catholics and Protestants, is in some ways a forerunner to the more modern ecumenical movements.\n\nThe 1589 \"Examen pacifique de la doctrine des Huguenots\" by Henry Constable proved influential, for example on Christopher Potter and William Forbes. Richard Montagu admired Cassander and Andreas Fricius. The 1628 \"Syllabus aliquot synodorum\" was a bibliography of the literature of religious concord, compiled by Jean Hotman, Marquis de Villers-St-Paul decades earlier, and seen into print by Hugo Grotius using the pseudonym \"Theodosius Irenaeus,\" with a preface by Matthias Bernegger. \n\nIt was typical enough, however, for moderate and even irenical writers on the Catholic side to find in this period that their arguments were turned back against Catholicism. This style of arguing developed in England from Thomas Bell and particularly Thomas Morton. It led to Thomas James mining Marcantonio de Dominis and Paolo Sarpi, and making efforts to claim Witzel for the Protestant tradition; to the arguments of Gallicanism being welcomed but also treated as particularly insidious; and an irenist such as Francis a Sancta Clara being attacked strongly by firm Calvinists. The handful of Protestant writers who were convinced in their irenic approach to Catholics included William Covell and Thomas Dove.\n\nJames I of England thought that the Bible translation he commissioned might effect some reconciliation between the English Protestant religious factions, and prove an \"irenicon\". The Greek ἐιρηνικόν (\"eirenikon\") or peace proposal is also seen as \"irenicum\" in its Latin version.\n\nAn irenic literature developed, relating to divisions within Protestantism, particularly in the twenty years after the Peace of Westphalia. Examples marked out by title are:\n\n\nIsaac Newton wrote an \"Irenicum\" (unpublished manuscript); it supported a latitudinarian position in theology, derived from a review of church history.\n\nAnthony Milton writes:\n\n[Ecumenical historians] have tended to assume the existence of an irenical 'essentialism' in which the association of Christian unity with peace, toleration and ecumenism is presupposed. [...] In fact, most thinkers of this period accepted that religious unity was a good idea, in the same way that they believed that sin was a bad idea. The problem was that, of course, different people wanted irenicism on different terms. [...] Different interpretations of irenicism could have direct political implications, making the rhetoric of Christian unity an important tool in the political conflicts of the period.\n\nIt is in that light that he comments on the irenists' succession: Erasmus, Cassander, Jacob Acontius, Grotius, then John Dury, who spent much time on a proposed reconciliation of Lutherans and Calvinists.\n\n\"Irenical\" has become a commonly used adjective to design an idealist and pacific conception, such as the democratic peace theory. \n\n\"False irenicism\" or \"false eirenism\" is an expression used in certain 20th-century documents of the Catholic Church to criticize attempts at ecumenism that would allow Catholic doctrine to be distorted or clouded. Documents using the term include the encyclical \"Humani generis\", promulgated by Pope Pius XII in 1950, the Second Vatican Council's 1964 Decree on Ecumenism, \"Unitatis Redintegratio,\" and Pope John Paul II's 1984 post-synodal apostolic exhortation, \"Reconciliatio et paenitentia\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8867388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8867388", "title": "Islam and children", "text": "Islam and children\n\nThe topic of Islam and children includes the rights of children in Islam, the duties of children towards their parents, and the rights of parents over their children, both biological and foster children. Also discussed are some of the differences regarding rights with respect to different schools of thought.\n\nMuhammad established laws and examples (\"sunnah\") in respect of which is obligatory for the Muslim community to follow.\n\nMuhammad had seven children, three boys and four girls. All his sons, including Ibrahim ibn Muhammad, died in infancy. Because of this, his experience as a father is sometimes described as \"sorrowful\". Muhammad also had an adopted son, Zayd, who is said to be the object of Muhammad's parental affection. He also had two grandsons, Hassan and Hussein, and three granddaughters, Umm Kulthum, Zaynab and Umamah. In one Islamic tradition, Muhammad ran after Hussein in a game until he caught him. Muhammad used to let Umamah sit on his shoulders while he was praying. When someone expressed astonishment at the Prophet when the Prophet kissed his grandchild, he responded, \"what can I do if God has deprived your heart of all human feeling?\"\n\nMuhammad has been described as being very fond of children in general. Watt attributes this to Muhammad's yearning for children, as most of his own children died before him. He comforted a child whose pet nightingale had died. Muhammad played many games with children, joked with them and befriended them. Muhammad also showed love to children of other religions. Once he visited his Jewish neighbor's son when the child was sick.\n\nOnce, Muhammad was sitting with a child in his lap, and the child urinated over Muhammad. Embarrassed, the father scolded the child. Muhammad restrained the father, and advised him: \"This is not a big issue. My clothes can be washed. But be careful with how you treat the child. What can restore his self-esteem after you have dealt with him in public like this?\"\n\nIn pre-Islamic Arabia, like the Jewish and Christian tradition, sexual relations between males and their milk-mothers or milk-sisters are looked upon as incest, also if they were adopted they couldn't breast feed.\n\nThe Quran forbade sexual relations between males and their milk-mothers or milk-sisters. According to Avner Giladi, verses 233 of \"sura\" 2 (\"Al-Baqara\") and 6 of sura 65 (\"At-Talaq\") aim at \"protecting repudiated but still lactating women and their nurslings by guaranteeing them economic support from the father for at least two years and by sanctioning non-maternal nursing when needed.\"\n\nThe Quran in 19 verses forbids harsh and oppressive treatment of orphaned children while urging kindness and justice towards them. Six-year-old Muhammad himself became an orphan after his mother died in 577, and his father died before he was born. An early Quranic verse celebrates God's providence and care towards him(Surat Ad-Duha). Other Quranic verses identify those who repulse the orphan as unbelievers, rebuke those who do not honor the orphans, and encourage the unbelievers to feed the orphans. The Quran speaks of the reward waiting for those who feed orphans, poor and the prisoner for the love of God. It also warns those who wrongfully consume the property of orphans that they will be punished in the hereafter with \"fire in their own bellies\". The Quran also gives concrete instructions to guardians (Walis) regarding the orphans, particularly on how to protect their wealth and property rights.\n\nIslamic scholar Muhammad Husayn Tabatabaei (1904–1981), renowned for his Quranic exegesis, interprets verses 57 to 59 of sura 16 (\"An-Nahl\") as God admonishing pagan polytheistic tribes for their sexism, as they believed that Allah had daughters, but \"they would choose boys for themselves.\"\n\n\nImam Ahmad bin Hanbal said that preferential treatment of a child is permitted if he or she is handicapped while others are not. (In Al-Mughni, vol. 5, p. 605, it is stated that special treatment of a child is permissible due to a need, a handicap, blindness, his or her being from a large family, being engaged in studies, or something of the sort, as it is also permitted to withhold from a child who would spend what he is given on sinful or wicked things.)\n\n\n\nA Hadith says, “It is better for parents to leave their children well provided (financially) than to leave them in poverty”.\n\nParents demonstrating an unearned preference for one child over the other is considered an act of injustice, as it could lead to an atmosphere of hatred, anger and dismay amongst the children in a household. But if a parent granted one of his children financial help to fulfill a necessity, such as a medical treatment coverage, then such a grant would not be categorized an act of injustice and unfairness. Such a gift will fall under the right to spend in the essential needs of the children, which is a requirement that a parent must fulfill.\n\n\nMuhammad said: \"Every one of you is a protector and guardian and responsible for your wards and things under your care and a man is a guardian of his family members, and is accountable for those placed under his charge.\" (Bukhari and Muslim)\n\n\nOne of the rights that children have over their parents is to be provided with marriage when they are old enough, without delaying it. Both the Quran and Muhammed orders that young people and orphans be married when they are old enough.\n\n\n\nAll Sunni schools of thought agree that forced marriages are strictly forbidden in Islam, as Islamic marriages are contracts between two consenting parties referred to as \"mithaq\".\nA hadith attributed to Muhammad states that a woman cannot be given to a man in marriage without consulting her first, and her consent is obtained either by her agreeing to the marriage or by her remaining silent. \n\nIn addition, Muhammad gave women the power to annul their marriages if it was found that they had been married against their consent.\nIn Islam, marriage is essentially a contract. However, the distinction between sacred and secular was never explicit in Islam, so it is not only a secular contract.\n\nFor a valid marriage, the following conditions must be satisfied, according to the major Islamic schools of jurisprudence:\n\nThe Maliki school of thought gives the right of \"ijbar\" to the guardian. \"Ijbar\" is defined as the annulment of marriage due to objection by male guardian. According to Malik ibn Anas, children due to their immaturity may choose an unsuitable partner for themselves, hence, the power of \"ijbar\" has been given to the guardian so that he may overrule the child to marry someone he thinks is unsuitable for her. This is the legal right given to the guardian for girls by Maliki school of thought. In addition, Islam requires that parents be followed in almost every circumstances, hence parents may ask their children to divorce a certain person, but this cannot be upheld in an Islamic court of law and is not a legal right of the parent.\n\nNo age limits have been fixed by Islam for marriage according to Reuben Levy, and \"quite young children may be legally married\". The girl may not live with the husband however until she is fit for marital sexual relations. The Hanafi madhhab of Islamic \"fiqh\" maintains that a wife must not be taken to her husband's house until she reaches the condition of fitness for sexual relations. Levy adds:\nIn Islamic legal terminology, \"Baligh\" refers to a person who has reached maturity, puberty or adulthood and has full responsibility under Islamic law. Legal theorists assign different ages and criteria for reaching this state for both males and females. In marriage \"baligh\" is related to the Arabic legal expression, \"hatta tutiqa'l-rijal\", which means that the wedding may not take place until the girl is physically fit to engage in sexual intercourse. Some Hanafi scholars hold the opinion that sexual intercourse may take place before puberty, as long as it's not injurious to one's health. In comparison, \"baligh\" or \"balaghat\" concerns the reaching of sexual maturity which becomes manifest by the menses. The age related to these two concepts can, but need not necessarily, coincide. Only after a separate condition called \"rushd\", or intellectual maturity to handle one's own property, is reached can a girl receive her bridewealth.\n\nIslam highly recommends the \"fostering\" of children, defined as \"assuming partial or complete responsibility of a child in lieu of the biological parents\". However, Islam forbids naming the child as one's own, or creating any \"fictive relationships\". Islamic adoption is sometimes called \"fostering\" or \"partial adoption\" and is similar to \"open adoption\". Traditionally Islam has viewed legal adoption as a source of potential problems, such as accidentally marrying one's sibling or when distributing inheritance.\n\nIf a child is adopted he or she does not become a son or daughter, but rather a ward of the adopting caretaker(s). The child’s family name is not changed to that of the adopting parent(s) and his or her guardians are publicly known as such. Legally, this is close to other nations' systems for foster care. Other common rules governing adoption in Islamic culture address inheritance, marriage regulations, and the fact that adoptive parents are considered trustees of another individual's child rather than the child's new parents. Usually an adopted child inherits from his or her biological parents, not automatically from the adoptive parents. If the child is below the age of consent at the time of inheritance (from the biological family), his or her adoptive parents serve as trustees over the child's wealth, but may not intermingle with it.\n\nAdoption was a common practice in pre-Islamic Arabia. According to this custom, the adopted son would take the name of his adoptive parent, and would be assimilated into the family in a \"legal sense\". Islam viewed this practice as \"erasure of natal identity\". This practice was sometimes done for emotional reasons, such as pity, but adoption was also a means through which slaves were stripped of their identities and given the name of their slavemaster. The Quran replaced the pre-Islamic custom of adoption by the recommendation that \"believers treat children of unknown origin as their brothers in the faith\".\n\nFrom verses 4 and 5 in sura 33 (\"Al-Ahzab\") in the Quran, Allah instructed adoptive parents to refer to their adoptive children by the names of their biological parents, if known:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "759765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=759765", "title": "Licence to kill (concept)", "text": "Licence to kill (concept)\n\nLicence to kill is the official sanction by a government or government agency to a particular operative or employee to initiate the use of lethal force in the delivery of their objectives, well known as a literary device used in espionage fiction. The initiation of lethal force is in comparison to the use of lethal force in self-defense or the protection of life.\n\nThe legitimacy of deadly force usage from country to country is generally controlled by statute, particular and direct executive orders, the common law, or rules of engagement.\n\nSir Richard Billing Dearlove, former head of the UK Secret Intelligence Service MI6, testified in court in 2007–2008's Diana, Princess of Wales inquest that it does grant a licence to kill, subject to a \"Class Seven authorisation\" from the Foreign Secretary, but that there were no assassinations conducted under Dearlove's authority. Former MI6 agent Matthew Dunn stated that MI6 agents do not need a licence to kill as a spy's primary job is to violate the law in other countries, and if an agent is compromised, he or she is at the mercy of the authorities of that country.\n\nThe idea of a licence to kill is popularly known from the James Bond novels and films, where it is signified by the \"00\" (Double O) designation given to the agents in the series who are licensed to kill; Bond himself is famously agent 007.\n\nIn literary portrayals, the licence is presumed to be a discretionary one, distributed rarely and requiring extensive training to obtain, granted only to a handful of covert agents of a state in the interest of national security. The agent is not necessarily expected to kill enemies as part of a mission, but may receive legal immunity from prosecution (in his own country) if in the agent's opinion, it became necessary to complete it.\n\nThe concept was parodied as the spy-world equivalent of a driving licence, in \"The Venture Bros.\" episode \"Mid-Life Chrysalis\" in which O.S.I. agent Brock Samson tries to use his licence to identify himself as an agent only to discover it expired six months ago, subsequently forcing him to take an exam in order to get it renewed. In the episode, it is treated as both an agents' ID as well as their official licence to kill.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Little Big Girl\", Mayor Quimby offers Bart a licence to kill (when he meant a driver's licence) after he puts out a fire. The related series \"Futurama\", set in the early 31st century, casually mentions licences to kill in the episode \"Less Than Hero\", suggesting they are readily available, though the applicant must specify bare-hands or with weapons. Hermes Conrad is uncertain which category best fits the use of piano wire. In the 2009 film \"Black Dynamite\", the titular character Black Dynamite, is shown having a license to kill from the CIA. \n\nIn \"Splinter Cell\", this concept is called Fifth Freedom, based on the Four Freedoms articulated by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt.\n"}
{"id": "25001382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25001382", "title": "Market share liability", "text": "Market share liability\n\nMarket share liability is a legal doctrine that allows a plaintiff to establish a prima facie case against a group of product manufacturers for an injury caused by a product, even when the plaintiff does not know from which defendant the product originated. The doctrine is unique to the law of the United States and apportions liability among the manufacturers according to their share of the market for the product giving rise to the plaintiff's injury.\n\nMarket share liability was introduced in the California case \"Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories\". In \"Sindell\", the plaintiffs were injured by DES, a drug prescribed to prevent miscarriage. The mothers of the plaintiffs had taken DES while pregnant, and expert testimony showed this to be a proximate cause of reproductive tract cancers in the plaintiffs years later. The plaintiffs, however, could not ascertain which drug company distributed the DES taken by their mothers. The court responded by allowing the plaintiffs to apportion liability among the defendant drug companies according to their respective shares in the DES market.\n\n\"Sindell\" laid out the requirements for applying the doctrine of market share liability:\n\nFirst, the defendants in court must constitute substantially all of the market. This is a distinguishing factor from alternative liability that requires that all of the defendants be in court (See Summers v. Tice). Having \"substantially all\" of the market makes it more likely that the actual wrongdoer will be in court. A main reason for not requiring all of the relevant market is that as time passes, some manufacturers drop out of the market, and it would raise the bar for the plaintiff too high. Also if all defendants were present, then market share liability would be unnecessary, because the plaintiff would be able to apply the doctrine of alternative liability to put the burden of proving causation onto the defendants.\n\nSecond, the products must be fungible (i.e. interchangeable—they must be of the same composition). For example, in \"Skipworth v. Lead Industries Association\", 690 A.2d 169 (Pa. 1997), the Pennsylvania Supreme Court held that the lead paint the defendants sold to not be fungible because the paints had lead pigments containing different chemical formulations, different amounts of lead, and differed in potential toxicity.\n\nThird, the defendants (potential tortfeasors) must all have been in the market within the specific timeframe surrounding the incident.\n\nFourth, the inability to point to a specific tortfeasor must not be the plaintiff's fault. This is particularly relevant in the pharmaceuticals context, as most plaintiffs are prescribed generic drugs and thus have no knowledge of who manufactured the product.\n\nJurisdictions and courts differ on the possibilities open to defendants to absolve themselves of market share liability. In \"Sindell\" (California), the court allowed defendants to bring forth exculpatory evidence and thus free themselves of liability. However, in \"Hymowitz v. Eli Lilly & Co.\" (New York), the court refused to allow exculpatory evidence because it felt that doing so would undermine the theory underpinning market share liability—because liability is based on relevant market share, providing exculpatory evidence will not reduce a defendant's overall share of the market.\n\n\"Sindell\" required plaintiffs to join defendant drug companies in a single action. A Wisconsin court took a different approach on this issue in \"Collins v. Eli Lilly Co.\" In \"Collins\", the court found that the plaintiff could bring a cause of action against a single defendant, and the burden of proof would be shifted to the defendant to show that they did not produce the DES taken by the plaintiff's mother.\n\nEfforts to expand the market share approach beyond DES cases have been mostly rejected because the strict requirements of applying market share liability. Courts have declined to expand the market-share approach to asbestos (\"Becker v. Baron Bros.\"), handguns (\"Hamilton v. Beretta\"), and lead paint (\"Santiago v. Sherwin Williams Co.\"). The market-share approach has been expanded to cases involving MTBE in the New York case \"In re Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether\".\n"}
{"id": "51404556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51404556", "title": "Maternity leave and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development", "text": "Maternity leave and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development\n\nForty-one countries have some form of paid parental leave, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development provides data from these countries about leave length, average pay rate and full-rate equivalent. Not all countries provide mothers with a pay rate equal to what they would have received if the absence had not occurred.\n\nRate of basic pay can be defined as fixed pay received through minimum wage law or an administratively-determined wage. Organizations and activists are working to inform, persuade and change pay-rate laws. Women in the workforce are at a disadvantage; regardless of legislation, a global gender pay gap is still visible. The OECD is a primary supplier of research and data pertaining to parental-leave rights.\n\nPaid maternity leave is important for women to take time away from work to bond with a child without financial pressures. Of the 193 United Nations countries, only a handful do not have a paid-parental-leave policy: New Guinea, Suriname, the United States and a few South Pacific island nations. The international history dates back to the 1970s, with countries such as Iraq granting full pay for women. By the 1980s, Great Britain was at the point of giving women benefits but did not specify a pay rate. The history of pay rates is limited and not well-recorded, except by the OECD.\n\nMaternity leave varies by country, with most developed countries having at least one set type of maternity leave. Most maternity leaves include a length of time to take off, with some form of pay. The following countries grouped by pay rate.\n\nIn the United Kingdom maternity-leave pay is known as Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP), which can cover up to 39 weeks of maternity leave. A woman can expect to earn 90 percent of her weekly earnings for the first six weeks of maternity leave; after that, the rate decreases.\n\nIn Australia, women can receive up to 18 weeks minimum-wage from the government; if an employer offers paid leave, a mother can receive that as well. In Canada, a woman can receive 17 weeks of maternity leave: two weeks before giving birth and 15 weeks afterwards. The two weeks before birth are unpaid. In New Zealand, primary leave is 18 weeks of paid leave; special leave covers 10 days (spread out) for appointments or unpaid illness.\n\nIn Denmark, a woman can receive 35 or 46 weeks of paid leave; the 35-week pay leave may be spread over 46 weeks. Women in Greece must be insured to receive maternity benefits, which include 56 days before giving birth and 63 days afterwards. To receive the benefits a woman must stop working for 56 days. If she does not take 56 days off, the woman must add the days after giving birth to be paid. In Switzerland, a woman is guaranteed up to 14 weeks (a minimum of 8 weeks) of paid leave after giving birth. She is paid 80 percent of her previous wage, with a daily maximum.\n\nIcelandic women receive 13 weeks of paid maternity leave (with an additional shared 13 weeks), with a ceiling of ISK370,000 per month. Japan allows 14 weeks if the woman is enrolled in the Employees' Health Insurance system. The leave can be taken by both parents in one absence period. There is a minimum payment of ¥46,230 per month and a maximum monthly payment of ¥285,420. Sixteen weeks of maternity leave are on the condition that the employee was employed for 236 weeks by the 15th week before the first week of leave. There is no ceiling on payments for the first six weeks. Slovakia grants leave until the child's third birthday as a family entitlement, with a monthly benefit of €203.2.\n\nWomen in Cyprus, including women who are adopting, receive 16 weeks of maternity leave. Nine weeks are mandatory, with the first two beginning two weeks before the expected due date. During this time, women receive a grant which serves as maternity pay. After maternity leave, women can apply to leave work an hour each day with pay for six months to help care for their child. In the Czech Republic, women receive 28 weeks of paid maternity leave; the minimum leave is 14 weeks. Families can receive financial support for child care. Women in Hungary have the options of up to 24 weeks of maternity leave at 70-percent pay or financial support and job insurance to raise the child, with part-time work promoted. In Korea, a woman receives 44 days of maternity leave before the birth and 90 days afterwards. During the first 60 days of the 90-day period, they receive full salary; during the last 30 days, they can receive up to ₩1,350,000. Swedish parents receive 480 days of maternity leave, with 90 days reserved for the father. The first 300 days are at 80-percent of pay, and the remainder is paid at a flat rate.\n\nIn Italy, women receive 80 percent of their normal earnings for six months. Latvian women are granted 114 days of paid leave, which may be extended based on health complications, the birth of more than one child or if there is more than one child under age two. When they return to work, mothers are allowed time to check on their child (or children). Maltese women receive 18 weeks of uninterrupted maternity leave. The first 14 weeks are full salary and benefits, and the last four weeks can be covered by the government. In Romania, women have two options: a one-year leave at 75-percent salary, with a bonus when they return to work, or two years at 75 percent without the return bonus.\n\nIn Bulgaria women receive 410 days of maternity leave at 90-percent salary, with 45 days granted before giving birth. French women are given 16 weeks of paid maternity leave for their first child, and time off increases with subsequent children. The amount paid is based on household income and how many children are already in the family. In Norway, women can choose 49 weeks at 100 percent of salary or 59 weeks at 80 percent.\n\nAccording to OECD research, 60 percent of countries offering maternity leave do not provide full pay. The table lists countries offering less than full salary, from lowest to highest.\n\nThese pay rates are the average of the paid leave for an individual earning 100 percent of the 2014 national average. In most countries, leave payments are calculated on gross earnings; however, in some—e.g., Austria, Chile, France and Germany—payments are based on net earnings (after income-tax and social-security payments). Pay rates in these countries reflect the proportion of net earnings replaced by the relevant payments, and should not be compared directly with pay rates based on gross earnings. Many countries have a variable rate; for example, Belgium gives women 82% of their salary for the first month. For the remaining three or four months (depending on the number of births) they receive 75 percent, with a cap of €133 per day.\n\nMost OECD countries provide payments replacing over 50 percent of previous earnings, with twelve countries offering average-wage mothers full compensation for the leave. Pay rates are lowest in Ireland and the United Kingdom, where only about one-third of gross average earnings are replaced by maternity benefits. Despite lengthy paid-leave entitlements, full-rate maternity leave in these countries is only nine weeks in Ireland and twelve in the UK.\n"}
{"id": "18592753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18592753", "title": "Oaths Act 1888", "text": "Oaths Act 1888\n\nThe Oaths Act 1888 (51 & 52 Vict. c.46) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which set out provisions whereby the oath of allegiance taken to the Sovereign may be solemnly affirmed rather than sworn to God. The Act was the culmination of a campaign by the noted atheist and secularist MP Charles Bradlaugh to take his seat. It was a significant piece of secularist legislation. The Act was consolidated and repealed by the Oaths Act 1978.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4210761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4210761", "title": "Officers' Competency Certificates Convention, 1936", "text": "Officers' Competency Certificates Convention, 1936\n\nOfficers' Competency Certificates Convention, 1936 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1936, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the establishment by each maritime country of a minimum requirement of professional capacity in the case of captain, navigating and engineer officers in charge of watches on board merchant ships...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 37 states. It has subsequently been denounced by 12 of the ratifying states.\n\n"}
{"id": "52487254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52487254", "title": "Oppositional gaze", "text": "Oppositional gaze\n\nOppositional gaze is a political rebellion and resistance against the repression of black people's right to a gaze; and it is through these looking relations that independent black cinema develops. The phrase \"oppositional gaze\" was coined by feminist, scholar and social activist bell hooks in 1992. It is a work of feminist film theory, which criticizes the male gaze through Michel Foucault's 'relations of power'. hooks asserts \"there is power in looking\".\n\nThe oppositional gaze encompasses modes of looking and looking back which employ reflexive gazes such as: \n\nThe concept was first developed as a critique of the male gaze by bell hooks in her essay \"The Oppositional Gaze: Black Female Spectators\". hooks posits the power of the gaze from a black body as repressed, denied, and ultimately interrogating. Through critical discussion around black women and cinema, the oppositional gaze enters as the counterpart to reinforcing white supremacy. Subsequently, black films developed in response to the stagnant stereotypes of white-dominated cinema. It is critical to note that even in this realm, the concerns around gender relations reinforce an imaginative moment of phallocentric power by black men, a power not disseminated toward black women.\n\nIn Lacanian theory, modes of power and looking relations are contextualized within the mirror stage. This stage subsequently produces the narcissistic libido and the alienating function of the 'I' \"...which will mark with its rigid structure the subject's entire mental development. Thus, to break out of the circle of the \"Innenwelt\" into the \"Umwelt\" generates the inexhaustible quadrature of the ego's verifications\". As a child, hook's first encounter with Sapphire from Amos 'n' Andy \"...explored both the negation of black female representation in cinema and television and our rejection of these images. [Sapphire's] black female image was not the body of desire. There was nothing to see. She was not us\". Lacan examines this dual relationship, noting that the mirror stage is \"...far from a phenomenon that occurs in the development of the child\". Thus, placing the black female spectator in a paradigm of \"méconnaissances\", where their image was explained and reiterated without them looking. As hooks concludes on the black characterization of Sapphire, \"How could we long to be there when our image, visually constructed, was so ugly\".\n\nIn \"The Oppositional Gaze: Black Female Spectators\", hooks gives the rubric that black woman are not only underrepresented in film, but they are also not allowed to 'look' either. Looking implores a sense of power that is removed from the black female body, to play the role of object in direct relation to white female existence.\n\nIn 2015, Viola Davis was quoted by Entertainment Weekly saying, \"Toni Morrison said that as soon as a character of color is introduced in a story imagination stops…I mean, I’m a black woman from Central Falls, Rhode Island. I’m dark-skinned. I’m quirky. I’m shy. I’m strong. I’m guarded. I’m weak at times. I’m sensual. I’m not overtly sexual. I am so many things in so many ways, and I will never see myself on screen”. It is beneath this very umbrella that hooks' concept of the oppositional gaze is present, as Davis, a decorated actress and producer, states the realities of what it means to be a black woman in film. This statement came after Davis was awarded as the first black woman to win the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series.\n\n\"‘The Oppositional Gaze’ by bell hooks is the rejection of Laura Mulvey’s paper, \"Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema\" (1975)\". Mulvey's text analyses Lacan's mirror stage within film, concluding that subjectivity is \"the birth of the long love affair/ despair between image and self-image which has found such intensity of expression in film and such joyous recognition in the cinema audience\". She furthers this point by criticizing the \"male movie star's glamorous characteristics\" as not subject to an objectifying gaze, but rather a more powerful stance as the 'ideal ego' developed in the beginning stages of recognition in front of the mirror. Mulvey defines the \"split between active/ male and passive/ female\" as the pleasure in looking through which the determining male gaze stylizes the female figure. hooks rebuts this claim stating, \"Black female spectators 'actively' chose not to identify with the film's imaginary subject because such identification was disenabling\".\n\nThe concept of seeing one's self in opposition to the 'ideal ego' must begin with recognition of one's body as comparably different. Black female representation in film exists primarily in opposition to the white woman's body. Thus, black women often remain in search of a mirror stage because they metaphorically have yet to see true representations of themselves. hooks gives an example of this rare recognition through two characters in the film \"Passion of Remembrance\". She writes, \"Dressing to go to a party, Louise and Maggie claim the 'gaze'. Looking at one another, staring in mirrors, they appear completely focused on their encounter with black femaleness\".\n\nMulvey's criticisms present exclusionary perspectives which inundate the white female body as a totalizing categorization of all women. Not only is the representation of Black women significantly marginalized within film but they are further misrepresented as stereotyped objects to which the male gaze is rarely, if ever applied. This concept leads hooks to ask, \"Are we really to imagine that feminist theorists writing only about images of white women... do not 'see' the whiteness of the image?\".\n\nThe oppositional gaze serves as \"a gesture of resistance\" to not only the male gaze but also toward the oppression of minorities through cinema by the all-inclusive gendering of woman. This gaze criticizes the doubling effect of objectification by \"turning away [as] one way to protest, to reject negation\".\n\nJudith Butler theorizes the feminine gaze as \"a pervasive heterosexism in feminist theory\". In her essay \"The Question of Social Transformation\", Butler states, \"Through performativity, dominant and nondominant gender norms are equalized. But some of those performative accomplishments claim the place of nature or claim the place of symbolic necessity...\". These theories criticize the male gaze and its objectification of 'women' as it predominantly excludes more than just the Black oppositional gaze but further problematizes the subjectivity of gendering male verses female. Furthermore, 'woman' as heterogenous sex object functions for and within the patriarchy, reinforcing \"white supremacist capitalist imperialist dominating 'gaze'\"\n\nThe surrounding controversy of Édouard Manet's \"Olympia\" (1863) highlights the confrontational gaze as defiant and critical within the context of its time. However, there is a second gaze within this painting that is \"cooperating with the West's construction of not-white women as not-to-be-seen\". Olympia, pegged as a prostitute, makes direct eye contact with viewers while her 'black servant' \"looms in the shadows\" as background. In her essay titled, \"Olympia's Maid: Reclaiming Black Female Subjectivity\", Lorraine O'Grady states, \"...only the white body remains as the object of a voyeuristic, fetishizing male gaze. The not-white body has been made opaque by a blank stare...\".\n\nThis \"blank stare\" through a body of alterity reiterates bell hooks definition of the oppositional gaze. The deliberate characterization of the 'black servant' is ideologically rooted in the constructs of black female identity as Mammy, Jezebel, and Sapphire. As O'Grady declares, \"Forget euphemisms. Forget 'tonal contrast'. We know what she is meant for: she is Jezebel and Mammy, prostitute and female eunuch, the two-in-one\". Olympia's maid serves not only as the maid but as the opposing body of difference to whiteness; both visually and sexually. Within Freudian theory, people of color are \"symbolically and even theoretically excluded from sexual difference\".\n\nOlympia, although defiant as gazing prostitute, remains as a unitary sign of the female body in the West. \"It has an obverse and a reverse\". As hooks says, \"…[this] image functions solely to reaffirm and reinscribe patriarchy\". These comparative power relations conjure up opposing forces that transfer agency from one side to the 'other'. Michel Foucault insists that there is the possibility of resistance to domination and therefore an oppositional gaze exists. While Olympia confronts the male gaze, her maid confronts the repressed gaze, the oppositional gaze, and the gaze of recognition.\n"}
{"id": "19858061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19858061", "title": "Personal injury trust", "text": "Personal injury trust\n\nA personal injury trust is a legal term of art in the modern English law of trusts and is also applicable, where relevant, to Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.\n\nA personal injury trust is a form of trust, a legally binding arrangement, in which funds are held by persons, called trustees, for the benefit of others upon the terms of a document, called a trust deed.\n\nA personal injury trust has several special characteristics:\n\n\nThese are important because it means that a trust does not need to have a generic title or label or be one particular type of trust or another at English law to be considered a personal injury trust. It is or is not a personal injury trust on account of its source and the involvement of the injured settlor.\n\nA personal injury trust can be:\n\n\nThe needs of the settlor, their family circumstances and tax or other relevant law should dictate the type of trust used. But whatever the legal type of the trust, if it is funded by an award of compensation for a personal injury then it will be a personal injury trust.\n\nPersonal injury trusts are sometimes referred to as \"special needs trusts\" but that expression is more general and can create confusion with certain trusts in other jurisdictions. A more accurate and informative alternative description might be \"compensation protection trust\" as that alludes to its actual purpose under English law.\n\nThe role and practice of personal injury trusts under English law.\n\n(1) Basic advantages\n\nThe existence of a personal injury trust can enable the injured party to obtain certain means-tested State benefits entitlements and to make the best use of the award under English law but there are also other potential advantages.\n\n(2) When advice should be given/sought.\n\nAdvice on personal injury trusts is usually given by lawyers involved in all injury related cases concerning:\n\n\nThat is irrespective of whether or not the harm caused was physical or mental. It is irrespective of where the injury occurred. It may have occurred in the UK or abroad. It is also irrespective of the size of the payment made.\n\n(3) Means-tested benefits advantages.\n\nA personal injury trust is also considered relevant even if a person is not currently in receipt of means-tested benefits. That is because they might potentially have access to them in the future if their \"assessable capital\" for means-testing purposes is low enough. Long term care provision in England and Wales, either at home or in a care home, is a means-tested benefit provided by or through local authorities.\n\n(4) Other practical advantages of a personal injury trust.\n\nThere are also other potential advantages of personal injury trusts apart from the retention of means-tested benefits. That is particularly in the case of older, very young, mentally incapable or other vulnerable persons:\n\n\n(5) Further points of note.\n\nUnder English law:\n\n\n(6) Tax issues.\n\nPersonal injury trusts usually carry no UK tax advantages. Compensated people need access to their award via their chosen trustees. Thus it is essential that they retain an interest as a named beneficiary in the award which they settle to form the trust fund.\n\nThe UK taxation anti-avoidance rules prevent tax advantages being given to such \"settlor interested\" trusts. They apply to settlor interested personal injury trusts in the same way as they apply to trusts founded from non-personal injury related funds.\n\nPersonal injury trusts can create adverse tax consequences under UK tax law if the wrong sort is chosen. For example if an award of more than the \"nil rate band\" for inheritance tax is placed in a discretionary trust or (since 21 March 2006) an ordinary life interest trust, an inheritance tax charge on the surplus becomes due immediately. The limit is £325,000 for the 2009-10 tax year. Above that a 20% charge at the inheritance tax lifetime rate will apply to the surplus.\n\nImportantly the above adverse tax consequences do not apply to bare trusts and certain other highly specialised types of trust arrangement.\n\n(7) Investment of personal injury awards.\n\nUK trustees will wish to comply with the Trustee Act 2000 and the general law on trustee investment. This is a complex technical field.\n"}
{"id": "13843720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13843720", "title": "Publics", "text": "Publics\n\nPublics are small groups of people who follow one or more particular issue very closely. They are well informed about the issue(s) and also have a very strong opinion on it/them. They tend to know more about politics than the average person, and, therefore, exert more influence, because these people care so deeply about their cause(s) that they donate a lot of time and money. Therefore, it is unlikely for a politician to be reelected if he or she did not please the publics while in office.\n\nIssue publics are groups of people who pay attention to one particular issue. One can be part of more than one issue public.\n\nAttentive publics are groups of people who pay attention to several particular issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "26163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26163", "title": "Real-time Transport Protocol", "text": "Real-time Transport Protocol\n\nThe Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) is a network protocol for delivering audio and video over IP networks. RTP is used in communication and entertainment systems that involve streaming media,i.e. telephony, video teleconference applications including WebRTC, television services and web-based push-to-talk features.\n\nRTP typically runs over User Datagram Protocol (UDP). RTP is used in conjunction with the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP). While RTP carries the media streams (e.g., audio and video), RTCP is used to monitor transmission statistics and quality of service (QoS) and aids synchronization of multiple streams. RTP is one of the technical foundations of Voice over IP and in this context is often used in conjunction with a signaling protocol such as the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) which establishes connections across the network.\n\nRTP was developed by the Audio-Video Transport Working Group of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and first published in 1996 as , superseded by in 2003.\n\nRTP is designed for end-to-end, real-time, transfer of streaming media. The protocol provides facilities for jitter compensation and detection of packet loss and out-of-order delivery, which are common especially during UDP transmissions on an IP network. RTP allows data transfer to multiple destinations through IP multicast. RTP is regarded as the primary standard for audio/video transport in IP networks and is used with an associated profile and payload format. The design of RTP is based on the architectural principle known as application-layer framing where protocol functions are implemented in the application as opposed to in the operating system's protocol stack.\n\nReal-time multimedia streaming applications require timely delivery of information and often can tolerate some packet loss to achieve this goal. For example, loss of a packet in audio application may result in loss of a fraction of a second of audio data, which can be made unnoticeable with suitable error concealment algorithms. The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), although standardized for RTP use, is not normally used in RTP applications because TCP favors reliability over timeliness. Instead the majority of the RTP implementations are built on the User Datagram Protocol (UDP). Other transport protocols specifically designed for multimedia sessions are SCTP and DCCP, although, , they are not in widespread use.\n\nRTP was developed by the Audio/Video Transport working group of the IETF standards organization. RTP is used in conjunction with other protocols such as H.323 and RTSP. The RTP specification describes two protocols: RTP and RTCP. RTP is used for transfer of multimedia data, and the RTCP is used to periodically send control information and QoS parameters.\n\nThe data transfer protocol, RTP, carries real-time data. Information provided by this protocol include timestamps (for synchronization), sequence numbers (for packet loss and reordering detection) and the payload format which indicates the encoded format of the data. The control protocol, RTCP, is used for quality of service (QoS) feedback and synchronization between the media streams. The bandwidth of RTCP traffic compared to RTP is small, typically around 5%.\n\nRTP sessions are typically initiated between communicating peers using a signaling protocol, such as H.323, the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), RTSP, or Jingle (XMPP). These protocols may use the Session Description Protocol to specify the parameters for the sessions.\n\nAn RTP session is established for each multimedia stream. Audio and video streams may use separate RTP sessions, enabling a receiver to selectively receive components of a particular stream. A session consists of a destination IP address with a pair of ports for RTP and RTCP. The specification recommends that RTP port numbers are chosen to be even and that each associated RTCP port be the next higher odd number. However, a single port is chosen for RTP and RTCP in applications that multiplex the protocols. RTP and RTCP typically use unprivileged UDP ports (1024 to 65535), but may also use other transport protocols, most notably, SCTP and DCCP, as the protocol design is transport independent.\n\nOne of the design considerations of RTP is to carry a range of multimedia formats and allow new formats without revising the RTP standard. To this end, the information required by a specific application of the protocol is not included in the generic RTP header, but is instead provided through RTP profiles and payload formats. For each class of application (e.g., audio, video), RTP defines a \"profile\" and one or more associated \"payload formats\". A complete specification of RTP for a particular application usage requires profile and payload format specifications.\n\nThe profile defines the codecs used to encode the payload data and their mapping to payload format codes in the field \"Payload Type\" (PT) of the RTP header. Each profile is accompanied by several payload format specifications, each of which describes the transport of a particular encoded data. The audio payload formats include G.711, G.723, G.726, G.729, GSM, QCELP, MP3, and DTMF, and the video payload formats include H.261, H.263, H.264, H.265 and MPEG-1/MPEG-2. The mapping of MPEG-4 audio/video streams to RTP packets is specified in , and H.263 video payloads are described in .\n\nExamples of RTP Profiles include:\n\nRTP packets are created at the application layer and handed to a transport layer for delivery. Each unit of RTP media data created by an application begins with the RTP packet header.\nThe RTP header has a minimum size of 12 bytes. After the header, optional header extensions may be present. This is followed by the RTP payload, the format of which is determined by the particular class of application. The fields in the header are as follows:\n\nA functional network-based system includes other protocols and standards in conjunction with RTP. Protocols such as SIP, Jingle, RTSP, H.225 and H.245 are used for session initiation, control and termination. Other standards, such as H.264, MPEG and H.263, are used to encode the payload data as specified by the applicable RTP profile.\n\nAn RTP sender captures the multimedia data, then encodes, frames and transmits it as RTP packets with appropriate timestamps and increasing timestamps and sequence numbers. The sender sets the \"payload type\" field in accordance with connection negotiation and the RTP profile in use. The RTP receiver detects missing packets and may reorder packets. It decodes the media data in the packets according to the payload type and presents the stream to its user.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6082177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6082177", "title": "Rosenberger v. University of Virginia", "text": "Rosenberger v. University of Virginia\n\nRosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia, 515 U.S. 819 (1995), was an opinion by the Supreme Court of the United States regarding whether a state university might, consistent with the First Amendment, withhold from student religious publications funding provided to similar secular student publications. The University provided funding to every student organization that met funding-eligibility criteria, which \"Wide Awake\", the student religious publication fulfilled. The University of Virginia defense claimed that denying student activity funding of the religious magazine was necessary to avoid the University’s violating the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nThe Supreme Court disagreed with the University; constitutional law scholar Michael W. McConnell argued on behalf of the student religious publication, and John Calvin Jeffries argued on behalf of the University of Virginia. The decision centered upon Memorial and Remonstrance Against Religious Assessments, a document on religious freedom by James Madison.\n\nTo fund student organization activities, the University of Virginia (UVA) charges and collects from the student body, a semestral \"activities fee\". Registered student organizations, including \"student news, information, opinion, entertainment, or academic communications media groups\", may use said funding to pay some of their expenses; the ineligible UVA student activities include \"religious activities, philanthropic activities, political activities, activities that would jeopardize the University's tax-exempt status, those that involve payment of honoraria or similar fees, or social or entertainment-related expenses\". Moreover, the UVA student activity funding policy defined \"religious activity\" as one that \"primarily promotes or manifests a particular belief in or about a deity or an ultimate reality\". The funds were disbursed via student organization requests for reimbursement of third-party expenses, paid by the student-activities-fund administrator.\n\nIn the case of \"Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia\", the plaintiff was the UVA student religious magazine \"Wide Awake\", and later the petitioner before the U.S. Supreme Court. In 1990, Ronald Rosenberger and other students founded \"Wide Awake\", intending to \"publish a magazine of philosophical and religious expression\" meant to \"facilitate discussion, which fosters an atmosphere or sensitivity to and tolerance of Christian viewpoints\", and to \"provide a unifying focus for Christians of multicultural backgrounds\". The first issue of \"Wide Awake\" published articles about racism, crisis pregnancy, homosexuality, prayer, C.S. Lewis, eating disorders, and interviews of UVA instructors. The magazine was a registered student organization eligible for student activities funding, and requested some $6,000 to pay for printing the magazine. The fund administrator denied the funding, because the University classified \"Wide Awake\" magazine as a funding-ineligible religious activity, because it \"promoted or manifested a particular belief in or about a deity or an ultimate reality\". The editors appealed the denial to every pertinent administrator, and ultimately lost their case when the dean of students upheld the denial of student activities funds for the religious magazine \"Wide Awake\".\n\nHaving no further recourse in the University of Virginia, \"Wide Awake\" magazine and Rosenberger asked the legal help of the Center for Individual Rights, which filed a lawsuit against UVA, under 42 U.S.C. § 1983, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia, who granted summary judgment to the University, ruling that denying student activities funding to \"Wide Awake\" was neither unconstitutional content-based discrimination, nor unconstitutional viewpoint discrimination, and that the University's interest in avoiding violating the Establishment Clause justified not subsidizing the magazine. Yet, the district court did not conclusively rule upon the related question of whether or not the UVA subsidizing of the student religious magazine would violate the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution. \"Wide Awake\" appealed its lost case to the Fourth Circuit court, which ruled that the University had engaged in unconstitutional viewpoint discrimination, but that the University’s subsidizing the religious magazine would affirmatively violate the Establishment Clause. \"Wide Awake\" then appealed the Fourth Circuit Court’s decision to the U.S. Supreme Court, which agreed to review the case.\n\nThe Government may not discriminate against a given point of view in a \"limited public forum\", a government-created space wherein speech might occur according to the government's guidelines. \"The necessities of confining a forum to the limited and legitimate purposes for which it was created may justify the State in reserving it for certain groups or for the discussion of certain topics.\" Yet, under the First Amendment interpretation posited in \"Perry Educational Association v. Perry Local Educators' Association\", said government guidelines may not \"regulate speech when the specific motivating ideology or the opinion or perspective of the speaker is the rationale for the restriction\". \n\nBefore deciding the case of \"Rosenberger v. University of Virginia\" the Court's last case about the constitutionality of restrictions upon limited public fora was its decision in \"Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School District\", wherein a Christian organization sought after-hours use of public school space to show Christian child-rearing films. The Court ruled that excluding the religious organization from school installations, whilst simultaneously permitting secular groups’ use of the same place for a \"wide variety of social, civic, and recreational purposes\", constituted viewpoint discrimination that violated the First Amendment.\n\nThe University of Virginia Student Activities Fund (SAF) constituted a limited public forum, albeit \"more in a metaphysical sense than in a spatial or geographic sense\", yet \"By the very terms of the SAF prohibition, the University does not exclude religion as a subject matter, but selects for disfavored treatment those student journalistic efforts with religious editorial viewpoints. Religion may be a vast area of inquiry, but it also provides, as it did here, a specific premise, a perspective, a standpoint from which a variety of subjects may be discussed and considered. The prohibited perspective, not the general subject matter, resulted in the refusal to make third-party payments, for the subjects discussed were otherwise within the approved category of publications\".\n\nThe University of Virginia defense distinguished between its funds-denial action and the actions tried in \"Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School District\" noting that it involved use of public school buildings, whilst the case of \"Rosenberger v. University of Virginia\" involved the use of school money. \"Were the reasoning of \"Lamb's Chapel\" to apply to funding decisions as well as to those involving access to facilities, it is urged, its holding would become a judicial juggernaut, constitutionalizing the ubiquitous content-based decisions that schools, colleges, and other government entities routinely make in the allocation of public funds.\" The Court held that when a public school or university spends its own money to disseminate its \"own message\", it may control the content and perspective, yet \"it does not follow . . . that viewpoint-based restrictions are proper when the University does not, itself, speak or subsidize transmittal of a message it favors, but instead expends funds to encourage a diversity of viewpoints from private speakers\". UVA student organizations are not University agents subject to University control, and are not a University responsibility. Because the University of Virginia will pay third-party printing costs of private speakers communicating their own messages, it may not \"silence the expression of selected viewpoints\".\n\nVital First Amendment speech principles are at stake here. The first danger to liberty lies in granting the State the power to examine publications to determine whether or not they are based on some ultimate idea and, if so, for the State to classify them. The second, and corollary, danger is to speech from the chilling effect of individual thought and expression. That danger is especially real in the University setting, where the State acts against a background and tradition of thought and experiment that is at the center of our intellectual and philosophic tradition. In ancient Athens, and, as Europe entered into a new period of intellectual awakening, in places like Bologna, Oxford, and Paris, universities began as voluntary and spontaneous assemblages or concourses for students to speak and to write and to learn. The quality and creative power of student intellectual life to this day remains a vital measure of a school's influence and attainment. For the University, by regulation, to cast disapproval on particular viewpoints of its students risks the suppression of free speech and creative inquiry in one of the vital centers for the Nation's intellectual life, its college and university campuses.\n\nThe Guideline invoked by the University to deny third-party contractor payments on behalf of \"Wide Awake\" effects a sweeping restriction on student thought and student inquiry in the context of University sponsored publications. The prohibition on funding on behalf of publications that \"primarily promote or manifest a particular belief in or about a deity or an ultimate reality\", in its ordinary and commonplace meaning, has a vast potential reach. The term \"promotes\" as used here would comprehend any writing advocating a philosophic position that rests upon a belief in a deity or ultimate reality. And the term \"manifests\" would bring within the scope of the prohibition any writing that is explicable as resting upon a premise that presupposes the extistence of a deity or ultimate reality. Were the prohibition applied with much vigor at all, it would bar funding of essays by hypothetical students such as Plato, Spinoza, and Descartes. And if the regulation covers, as the University says it does, those student journalistic efforts that primarily manifest or promote a belief that there is no deity and no ultimate reality, then undergraduates named Karl Marx, Bertrand Russell, and Jean-Paul Sartre would likewise have some of their major essays excluded from student publications. If any manifestation of beliefs in first principles disqualifies the writing, as seems to be the case, it is indeed difficult to name renowned thinkers whose writings would be accepted, save perhaps for articles disclaiming all connection to their ultimate philosophy. Plato could contrive perhaps to submit an acceptable essay on making pasta or peanut butter cookies, provided he did not point out their (necessary) imperfections.\n\nAlthough the University of Virginia appeared to concede that its Establishment Clause claim lacked merit, the majority of the Court addressed the matter, because the Fourth Circuit Court's ruling rested upon it. Government partiality towards organized religion is a necessary component of an Establishment Clause violation; in this sense, the government acts neutrally when it follows neutral criteria and policies in extending benefits to recipients representing a wide range of political and religious ideologies. The Establishment Clause does not require government to refuse free speech rights to religious organizations participating in neutral-design government programs. UVA's student activities funding design is neutral, for seeking to \"open a forum for speech and to support various student enterprises, including the publication of newspapers, in recognition of the diversity and creativity of student life\". Furthermore, the fact that UVA is not the speaker under this program supports the conclusion that the UVA student activities funding design does not violate the Establishment Clause, because it is unlikely that the University will be perceived as the speaker.\n\nJustice O'Connor identified the difficult aspect of \"Rosenberger v. University of Virginia\"—it lies at the \"intersection of the principle of government neutrality and the prohibition on state funding of religious activities.\" She identified four considerations showing no Establishment Clause violation arising from UVA's potential endorsement of the religious message \"Wide Awake\" magazine might communicate. First, \"Wide Awake\" is \"strictly independent\" of UVA. Second, the student activities funds disbursed to it may only be used for permitted third-party reimbursements. Third, \"assistance is provided to the religious publication in a context that makes improbable any perception of government endorsement of the religious message\", because it also funds a \"wide array of nonreligious, anti-religious and competing religious viewpoints\" via the student activities fund. Fourth, students contribute the money, and students are directly involved in disbursing it under UVA administrative supervision.\n\nJustice Thomas concurred with the Court majority's opinion, but separately published his historical explanation of the Establishment Clause principle that determined the \"Rosenberger v. University of Virginia\" judgment. To wit, James Madison's objection to government subsidy of organized religion in Memorial and Remonstrance Against Religious Assessments was that the taxes were solely to fund Christian churches — the unconstitutional religious partiality against which the Establishment Clause guarded the nation. The historical evidence did not, as the dissent argues, support the conclusion that \"the Establishment Clause categorically condemn[s] State programs directly aiding religious activity when that aid is part of a neutral program available to a wide array of beneficiaries\". That Madison's advocacy of religious neutrality led the Court majority to its judgment of \"Rosenberger v. University of Virginia\". That, if the dissenting justices had their way, and the Establishment Clause required no government money to organized religion, then UVA could allow the \"Wide Awake\" editors to themselves print the magazine, but it could not pay for the student religious magazine's third-party printing costs. \"Though our Establishment Clause jurisprudence is in hopeless disarray, this case provides an opportunity to reaffirm one basic principle that has enjoyed an uncharacteristic degree of consensus: The Clause does not compel the exclusion of religious groups from government benefits programs that are generally available to a broad class of participants.\"\n\nThomas argued in the process that \"Contrary to the dissent's suggestion, Madison's objection to the assessment bill did not rest on the premise that religious entities may never participate on equal terms in neutral government programs. Nor did Madison embrace the argument that forms the linchpin of the dissent: that monetary subsidies are constitutionally different from other neutral benefits programs. Instead, Madison's comments are more consistent with the neutrality principle that the dissent inexplicably discards. According to Madison, the Virginia assessment was flawed because it 'violate[d] that equality which ought to be the basis of every law.'\"\n\nJustice Souter began his dissenting opinion with a detailed description of the religious message of \"Wide Awake\" magazine. \"Each issue of \"Wide Awake\" contained in the record makes good on the editor's promise, and echoes the Apostle's call to accept salvation . . . The masthead of every issue bears St. Paul's exhortation, that the hour has come for you to awake from your slumber, because our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed\". Example articles about eating disorders and racism, began with a secular perspective, but soon became religious messages decrying racism, and proclaiming that Jesus Christ alone can \"provide the ultimate source of spiritual fulfillment which permeates the emotional, psychological, and physical dimensions of our lives. This writing is not merely descriptive examination of religious doctrine,\" nor is it \"merely the expression of editorial opinion that, incidentally, coincides with Christian ethics and reflects a Christian view of human obligation. It is straightforward exhortation to enter into a relationship with God, as revealed in Jesus Christ, and to satisfy a series of moral obligations derived from the teachings of Jesus Christ.\"\n\nFor Souter, the University of Virginia directly subsidized religion by paying third-party printing costs for \"Wide Awake\" magazine. Such a subsidy had been understood to violate the Establishment Clause since before it was added to the Constitution in 1791. \"Nearly every colony had exacted a tax for church support\", and the \"practice was so commonplace as to shock the freedom-loving colonials into a feeling of abhorrence\". James Madison \"captured the colonists' conviction that individual religious liberty could be achieved best under a government stripped of all power to tax, to support, or otherwise to assist any or all religions, or to interfere with the beliefs of any religious individual or group\".\n\nAccordingly, the UVA student activities fee was a patent violation of the principle of no direct government funding of organized religion, because the University of Virginia \"exercises the power of the State to compel a student to\" subsidize religion. \n\nWhy does the Court not apply this clear law to these clear facts, and conclude, as I do, that the funding scheme here is a clear constitutional violation? The answer must be, in part, that the Court fails to confront the evidence set out in the preceding section. Throughout its opinion, the Court refers uniformly to \"Wide Awake\"'s Christian viewpoint or its religious perspective, and in distinguishing funding of \"Wide Awake\" from the funding of a church, the Court maintains that Wide Awake is not a religious institution, at least in the usual sense. The Court does not quote the magazine's adoption of Saint Paul's exhortation to awaken to the nearness of salvation, or any of its articles enjoining readers to accept Jesus Christ, or the religious verses, or the religious textual analyses, or the suggested prayers. And so, it is easy for the Court to lose sight of what the University students and the Court of Appeals found so obvious, and to blanch the patently and frankly evangelistic character of the magazine by unrevealing allusions to religious points of view.\n\nTo Justice Souter, the Court's analysis was contradictory—it demanded neutrality, but used an Establishment Clause analysis to support that neutrality demand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11731300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11731300", "title": "Rubberized asphalt", "text": "Rubberized asphalt\n\nRubberized asphalt concrete (RAC), also known as asphalt rubber or just rubberized asphalt, is noise reducing pavement material that consists of regular asphalt concrete mixed with crumb rubber made from recycled tires. Asphalt rubber is the largest single market for ground rubber in the United States, consuming an estimated , or approximately 12 million tires annually.\n\nUse of rubberized asphalt as a pavement material was pioneered by the city of Phoenix, Arizona in the 1960s because of its high durability. Since then it has garnered interest for its ability to reduce road noise.\n\nIn 2003 the Arizona Department of Transportation began a three-year, $34-million Quiet Pavement Pilot Program, in cooperation with the Federal Highway Administration to determine if sound walls can be replaced by rubberized asphalt to reduce noise alongside highways. After about one year it was determined that asphalt rubber overlays resulted in up to 12 decibels of in road noise reduction, with a typical reduction of 7 to 9 decibels.\n\nArizona has been the leader in using rubberized asphalt, but California, Florida, Texas, and South Carolina are also using asphalt rubber. Tests are currently underway in other parts of the United States to determine the durability of rubberized asphalt in northern climates, including a 1.3 mile stretch of Interstate 405 in Bellevue and Kirkland, Washington and a handful of local roads in the city of Colorado Springs, Colorado. In 2012, the State of Georgia issued a specification for the use of rubber-modified asphalt as a replacement for polymer-modified asphalt. In Belgium, tests in the ring of Brussel and in the F1 circuit of Francorchamp (see the film by Jean-Marie Piquint \"RUBBERIZED ASPHALT\" for Esso Belgium).\n\nTwo quality control requirements are necessary when using asphalt rubber: (a) crumb rubber tends to separate and settle down in the asphalt cement and therefore asphalt rubber needs to be agitated continuously to keep the rubber particles in suspension and (b) crumb rubber is prone to degradation (devulcanization and depolymerization) and thus lose its elasticity if asphalt rubber is maintained at high temperatures for more than 6-8 hours. This means asphalt rubber must be used within 8 hours after production.\n\nPorous Elastic Road Surfaces (PERS) or poroelastic road surfaces improve RAC by incorporating voids and channels, making the pavement porous and further reducing traffic noise.\n\n"}
{"id": "2994826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994826", "title": "South Eastern Reporter", "text": "South Eastern Reporter\n\nThe South Eastern Reporter and South Eastern Reporter Second are United States regional case law reporters. It is part of the National Reporter System created by John B. West for West Publishing Company, which is now part of Thomson West.\n\nThe South Eastern Reports contains published appellate court case decisions for:\n\nWhen cited, the \"South Eastern Reporter\" and \"South Eastern Reporter Second\" are abbreviated \"S.E.\" and \"S.E.2d\", respectively.\n"}
{"id": "2272601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2272601", "title": "Stephan Kinsella", "text": "Stephan Kinsella\n\nNorman Stephan Kinsella (; born 1965) is an American intellectual property lawyer, author, and deontological anarcho-capitalist. His legal works have been published by Oceana Publications and are stored on the Westlaw database.\n\nBorn in Prairieville, Louisiana, he attended Louisiana State University where he earned Bachelor of Science (BS) and Master of Science (MS) degrees in electrical engineering, and a Juris Doctor (JD) from the Paul M. Hebert Law Center (formerly known as LSU Law Center). He also obtained an LL.M. at the University of London.\n\nKinsella was general counsel of Applied Optoelectronics, Inc., of Sugar Land, Texas from 2000 to 2012 and is currently in private practice in Houston, Texas. He was formerly an adjunct scholar of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, a right-libertarian think-tank for the promotion of Rothbardian political thought and the Austrian School of economics, where he was Book Review Editor for the \"Journal of Libertarian Studies\" and a faculty member of the Mises Academy. Kinsella also founded the Center for the Study of Innovative Freedom (C4SIF) of which he currently is the Director.\n\nKinsella's legal publications include books and articles about patent law, contract law, e-commerce law, international law, and other topics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31032974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31032974", "title": "Summers v. Adams", "text": "Summers v. Adams\n\nSummers v. Adams, was a case where the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina ruled that South Carolina's \"I Believe\" Act was unconstitutional for violating the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. The law authorized the state's Department of Motor Vehicles to create a licence plate that had to contain \"the words 'I Believe' and a cross superimposed on a stained glass window.\"\n\nSouth Carolina law allows for organizations to file for customized licence plates that can be sold statewide. After an unsuccessful attempt at implementing a similar license plate in Florida, Lieutenant Governor André Bauer proposed the \"I Believe\" Act with State Senator Yancey McGill. On April 24, 2008, the act was introduced to the Senate and by May 21, 2008 the bill had been passed unanimously through both the Senate and the House.\n\nThe \"I Believe\" Act reads as follows:\n\nThe Department of Motor Vehicles may issue \"I Believe\" special motor vehicle license plates to owners of private motor vehicles registered in their names. The plate must contain the words \"I Believe\" and a cross superimposed on a stained glass\nwindow. The biennial fee for this special license plate is the same as the fee provided in Article 5, Chapter 3 of this title. The guidelines for the production of this special license plate must meet the requirements contained in Section 56-3-8100.\n\nOn June 5, 2008, the aforementioned act became law without the signature of Governor Mark Sanford.\n\nThe Department of Motor Vehicles debuted the new license plate on their website on October 30, 2008 and began taking orders from residents. Three days later they had over four-hundred prepaid applications for the \"I Believe\" plate, allowing them to begin production, but that November the plaintiffs, four religious leaders and two non-profit religious-cultural organizations, filed for preliminary injunction and successfully stalled production of the plates on December 11, 2008.\n\nThe Plaintiffs included: Rev. Dr. Thomas A. Summers, Rev. Robert M. Knight, Rabbi Sanford T. Marcus, Rev. Dr. Neal Jones, Hindu American Foundation, and American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee.\n\nThe plaintiffs opposed the \"I Believe\" Act on two grounds:\nHowever, when the courts doubted whether or not the plaintiffs had standing on the second accusation, they dismissed the second argument and chose to just focus solely on the violation of the Establishment Clause.\n\nThe defendant and the Director of the South Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles, Marcia S. Adams, considered the proposed license plate's purpose a secular one. She argued that the plate was to \"provide South Carolina motorist with another message that they can elect to convey when selecting from over one hundred available special license plates.\" She notes that the \"I Believe\" plate provided an alternative to the \"In Reason We Trust\" plate (which was a secular take on the phrase \"In God We Trust\").\n\nThe Attorney General of South Carolina, Henry McMaster, argued another position when he gave his amicus curiae brief. He described it as \"[r]ather than being motivated by a secular purpose, the ['I Believe' Act] is instead an accommodation to Christians, just as the other plates are accommodations to Parrot Heads and fraternity and sorority members.\"\n\nRuling with respect of stare decisis, the appellate court went on precedents set in the United States Supreme Court's decision of \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\". The \"I Believe\" Act's constitutionality was decided by being held up to the Lemon Test. The three prongs of the Lemon Test are:\n\nFirst, the court ruled that the \"I Believe\" Act was not intended to serve a secular purpose. Instead of making it easier for all groups to get custom plates, the bill only allowed \"I Believe\" to be backed by a cross and stained glass window. That caused the plate to be \"uniquely Christian\". The fact that the plate idea was not initiated by any group or organization, but by the Lieutenant Governor André Bauer, allowed the court to quickly rule that the government's action did not have a secular purpose.\n\nFor the second prong, the test requires that the primary effect of the action must not advance or inhibit religion. The court ruled that the act's primary effect \"was\" promoting a specific religion, Christianity. Because Christianity is the only religion represented, it \"signals\" that it's the preferred religion. Quoting Wallace v. Jaffree, the Establishment Clause \"preclude[s] government from conveying or attempting to convey a message that religion or a particular religious belief is \"favored or preferred\".\"\n\nThe last prong included in the Lemon Test forbids \"excessive government entanglement\" with religion. The court found that the \"I Believe\" Act also failed the final prong. The court saw the state's decision to use Christian symbols on a government-sponsored license plate the first sign of entanglement. Adopting one religious belief will cause the legislature to vote and decide what other beliefs are \"worthy\", they say that as an even greater risk of entanglement. When Lieutenant Governor André Bauer and Attorney General Henry McMaster went around the state speaking at church rallies in support of the \"I Believe\" Act, they not only caused further entanglement, but also went back on the decision in \"Newdow v. United States Congress, Elk Grove Unified School District, et al.\". That decision stated that \"the essential command of the Establishment Clause... [is] that government not make a person's religious beliefs relevant to his or her standing in the political community by conveying a message 'that religion or a particular religious belief is favored or preferred.'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2258359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258359", "title": "Supreme Administrative Court of Poland", "text": "Supreme Administrative Court of Poland\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Poland () is the court of last resort in administrative cases e.g. those betweens private citizens (or corporations) and administrative bodies. This court deals with appeals from lower administrative courts called Voivodship Administrative Courts.\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court is located in Warsaw. It consists of The President of Supreme Administrative Court, Vice Presidents and judges.\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court is divided into three chambers: Commercial Chamber, Financial Chamber and General Administrative Chamber.\n\nThe Commercial Chamber supervises the jurisdiction of regional administrative courts as far as customs, and most business regulation is concerned. The Financial Chamber supervises the jurisdiction of regional administrative courts when it comes to fiscal obligations and other payments regulated by tax law. The General Administrative Chamber supervises the rest of the jurisdiction of regional administrative courts.\n\nWithin its organization there are three organs: The President of The Supreme Administrative Court, The General Assembly of Judges and The Council of Judges.\n\nThe President of the Supreme Administrative Court manages the functioning of The Supreme Administrative Court and represents it on the outside. He has the right to look into all cases pleaded in The Supreme Administrative Court. He may require not only explanations but also removing faults in a procedure and may also be present during a closed session.\nThe President of Supreme Administrative Court is nominated for 6 years by the Polish President as one of two candidates designated by The General Assembly of Judges. These two candidates are chosen from all the judges of Supreme Administrative Court.\n\nThe Vice-presidents of Supreme Administrative Court take up their activities commissioned by The President. Being designated by The President, they direct the work within each Chamber. They are nominated and dismissed by the President of Poland.\n\nThe General Assembly of Judges consists of judges nominated to the Supreme Administrative Court. At the top of hierarchy there is The President of the Supreme Administrative Court. To their duties belong:\n\nAn absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the members is needed in order to pass the resolution.\n\nThe Council of Judges sets a division of activities within the Supreme Administrative Court and distributes coming cases to the judges. It gives an opinion concerning candidates for judges to The General Assembly. The term of this organ lasts three years. The chairman of The Council is The President of the Supreme Administrative Court. Again, an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the members is needed here to pass a resolution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53853607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53853607", "title": "The Journal of Law, Economics, &amp; Organization", "text": "The Journal of Law, Economics, &amp; Organization\n\nThe Journal of Law, Economics, & Organization is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering law and economics. It was established in 1985 and is published by Oxford University Press. It is supported by the Olin Center for Studies in Law, Economics, and Public Policy at Yale Law School. The editor-in-chief is Wouter Dessein (Columbia Business School). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 1.212, ranking it 126th out of 347 journals in the category \"Economics\" and 49th out of 147 in the category \"Law\".\n"}
{"id": "50714370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50714370", "title": "The Spoils of War (symposium)", "text": "The Spoils of War (symposium)\n\nThe Spoils of War (symposium)\n\n\"The Spoils of War—World War II and Its Aftermath: The Loss, Reappearance, and Recovery of Cultural Property\" was a ground-breaking international symposium held in New York City in 1995 to discuss the artworks, cultural property, and historic sites damaged, lost, and plundered as a result of World War II. The three-day event was sponsored by the Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the end of the war. The conference was organized by Elizabeth Simpson, an archaeologist and professor at the Bard Graduate Center.\n\nWorldwide interest in the subject was generated by announcements in 1991 of the location of objects confiscated by Soviet Trophy Brigades from German territory at the end of the war. The unification of Germany in 1990 and dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 were followed by a number of goodwill agreements between Germany and the countries of the former USSR, as well as the opening of official negotiations on repatriation. It was this spirit of openness and cooperation that made the New York symposium possible. This initial gathering of concerned parties would be followed by a series of conferences, initiatives, agreements, and repatriations that continue into the present.\n\nThe program featured 48 notable speakers—government officials, diplomats, journalists, art historians, archaeologists, lawyers, and independent researchers—from Poland, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Australia, England, and the United States. The combined testimony laid bare another horrifying dimension to the anguish of human suffering wrought by the Second World War.\n\nThe symposium was the first to address the issue in a public forum, and led to numerous initiatives on provenance research by the governments involved as well as museums, libraries, and art dealers internationally. As a result, the art world was changed irrevocably. Acquisitions policies were revised and organizations restructured to facilitate the identification of artistic and cultural objects that had been stolen or transferred illegally during and after the war. Processes were established to allow families to claim their missing property; such claims have resulted in many works being restored to the heirs and descendants of the rightful owners. \n\nThe conference proceedings were published in an award-winning volume edited by Elizabeth Simpson (Harry N. Abrams, 1997). The book includes 17 treaties, conventions, and other official documents relating to the protection and return of cultural property. These begin with the \"Lieber Code\" of 1863 and the \"Hague Convention of 1907,\" and continue with the treaties following World War I, the \"Hague Convention and Protocol of 1954\" for the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict, the \"1970 UNESCO Convention\" on the prevention of illicit import, export, and transfer of ownership of cultural property, and the UNIDROIT Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural Objects of 1995.\n\nElizabeth Simpson and lawyer Jeanette Greenfield, author of \"The Return of Cultural Treasures\", provided introductory comments on the subject, along with Lynn Nicholas, author of \"The Rape of Europa\", who discussed the massive displacement of art and cultural property that occurred during World War II. Individual countries detailed the damage to their national patrimony, as well as losses suffered by individuals. A talk on Jewish ceremonial art and private property was given by Vivian Mann, then Chair of Judaica at The Jewish Museum, New York. These reports were followed by a series of contributions on laws, directives, and conventions in place at the beginning of World War II, directives in force in Germany during the war, and laws enacted by the Allies to counter German appropriations. These and all the conference presentations are published in the proceedings (see list of contributors below).\n\nA group of the so-called \"Monuments Men\" (which in fact included several women) detailed their firsthand accounts of the work of the art-specialist officers of the Western Allies. Members of the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives Section of the Office of Military Government, United States, recounted the discovery of looted art and stashed bullion in German mines, bunkers, castles, and churches, along with the redistribution and repatriation of these finds through the Munich and Wiesbaden Collecting Points. Of the veteran officers speaking the New York conference—James S. Plaut (d. 1996), Walter I. Farmer (d. 1997), Edith A. Standen (d. 1998), Craig Hugh Smyth (d. 2006), S. Lane Faison (d. 2006), and Bernard Taper (d. 2016)—none survives today.\n\nOther repatriations occurred at the end of the war, effected by the US State Department, the USSR, and other countries. Case studies include fascinating discussions of the Quedlinburg Church Treasures, the Soviet Secret Repositories, and the \"Treasure of Priam,\" which was excavated by Heinrich Schliemann at Troy in 1873, shipped out of Turkey illegally by Schliemann, ended up in Berlin, transferred to Moscow by the Soviet Trophy Brigades after the fall of Berlin, held in secret in the Pushkin Museum, and finally brought out of the secret repository and exhibited in the museum in 1996. Despite claims to ownership of the Trojan treasures by Turkey, Germany, and Greece, the objects remain in Moscow with the issue unresolved.\n\nThe conference concluded with a series of presentations on current and proposed efforts to mitigate the losses suffered. Lyndel Prott, then Chief of the International Standards Section of the Cultural Heritage Division of UNESCO, offered a list of \"Principles for the Resolution of Disputes Concerning Cultural Heritage Displaced during the Second World War\":\n\n\nThe \"Spoils of War\" symposium was covered extensively in the international press, including articles carried by the Associated Press and in \"The New York Times\", \"New York Newsday\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The Christian Science Monitor\", \"The Observer\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\", \"The Art Newspaper\", \"Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung\", \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", \"Die Zeit\", and \"Pravda\". The \"Jewish Forward\" published a critique that appeared on the first day of the conference; at issue was whether or not the conference gave sufficient weight to Jewish wartime losses, since these losses were detailed within the greater context of the Second World War and the damages experienced by the peoples of the many nations involved.\n\nThis issue sparked a second conference in Washington, DC, in 1998. Sponsored by the United States Department of State and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, the \"Washington Conference on Holocaust-Era Assets\" assembled participants from the New York symposium along with others to discuss Jewish losses in particular, including artworks, books, and archives, as well as insurance claims and other types of assets. This resulted in a further set of \"Principles on Nazi-Confiscated Art,\" outlined by organizer Stuart E. Eizenstat, as well as \"Declarations of the Task Force for International Cooperation on Holocaust Education, Remembrance, and Research.\"\n\nThe New York conference has remained influential, however, due to its broader scope—dealing as it did with losses that occurred throughout Europe, inflicted not only by the Germans but also by the Soviets and western Allies, and affecting all those peoples who suffered as a result of the Second World War. The volume of conference proceedings was reviewed widely by publications in the United States and Europe, as well as \"The Jerusalem Post\", \"Yeni Yüzyıl\", \"ITAR-TASS\", and others. As the only comprehensive treatment of the subject, it is cited frequently, considered one of the most important books on World War II and its aftermath—and the loss, reappearance, and recovery of cultural property relating to the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3112682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3112682", "title": "Trade and Investment Framework Agreement", "text": "Trade and Investment Framework Agreement\n\nA Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) is a trade pact that establishes a framework for expanding trade and resolving outstanding disputes between countries.\n\nTIFAs are often seen as an important step towards establishing Free Trade Agreements.\n\nThe United States and ASEAN concluded the U.S.-ASEAN Trade and Investment Arrangement (TIFA) in 2006 and since then have been working to build U.S.-ASEAN trade and investment ties as well as promote ASEAN regional economic integration. The United States intensified its work under the TIFA in 2009, presenting ASEAN senior officials a number of ambitious proposals to be pursued under the TIFA work plan. These proposed initiatives seek to achieve concrete results in a variety of areas including trade facilitation, logistics, digital economy, trade finance, and trade and environment.\nThe 10-member countries of ASEAN together comprise the fourth largest export market of the United States and its fifth largest two-way trading partner. ASEAN countries include Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam.\nTrade between the U.S. and ASEAN continues to grow steadily, and two-way goods trade totaled $177 billion in 2008. With robust economies and a total population of about 550 million, the 10-member countries of the ASEAN market provide significant potential opportunities for U.S. companies.\n\nThe U.S. goods trade deficit with Taiwan was $15.2 billion in 2006, an increase of $2.4 billion from $12.8 billion in 2005. U.S. goods exports in 2006 were $23.0 billion, up 4.3 percent from the previous year. Corresponding U.S. imports from Taiwan were $38.2 billion, up 9.7 percent. Taiwan is as of June 2015, the 11th largest export market for U.S. goods.\nU.S. exports of private commercial services (excluding military and government) to Taiwan were $6.4 billion in 2005 (latest data available), and U.S. imports were $6.4 billion. Sales of services in Taiwan by majority U.S.-owned affiliates were $10.2 billion in 2004 (latest data available), while sales of services in the United States by majority Taiwan-owned firms were $475 million. The stock of U.S. foreign direct investment (FDI) in Taiwan was $13.4 billion in 2005. U.S. FDI in Taiwan is concentrated largely in the finance, manufacturing and wholesale trade sectors. The United States and Taiwan continued to work together to enhance economic cooperation through bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) process. The TIFA, which was established in 1994, is an important mechanism for both parties to resolve bilateral trade issues and to address the concerns of the U.S. business community. The United States and Taiwan held a productive meeting of the fifth meeting of the TIFA Joint Council in Taipei, May 25–26, 2006, covering issues related to agricultural trade, intellectual property rights, pharmaceuticals, government procurement and investment, as well as other areas.\n\nThe U.S.-Uruguay commercial relationship has developed significantly in the past several years. In 2002, Uruguay and the United States created a Joint Commission on Trade and Investment (JCTI) to exchange ideas on a variety of economic topics. The Commission served as an important mechanism for the two countries to work to enhance and broaden their trade relationship, and facilitated the successful negotiation of the United States - Uruguay Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT), which entered into force on November 1, 2006.\nThe United States and Uruguay signed the United States - Uruguay TIFA on January 25, 2007. The TIFA established the United States - Uruguay Trade and Investment Council (TIC) and serves as a mechanism to further deepen the trade and investment dialogue. On October 2, 2008, both governments signed protocols to the TIFA covering substantive commitments in the areas of trade facilitation and public participation in trade and environment.\nThe TIFA contains an annex that established a work program calling for the two governments to address such matters as liberalization of bilateral trade and investment, intellectual property rights, regulatory issues, information and communications technology and electronic commerce, trade facilitation, trade and technical capacity building, trade in services, government procurement, and cooperation on sanitary and phytosanitary measures. The annex provides for the TIC to add other matters to the work program.\nIn implementing the TIFA, both parties reconfirmed their commitment to expand economic opportunities between Uruguay and the United States while simultaneously coordinating their efforts to promote greater trade liberalization through the World Trade Organization (WTO).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23154945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23154945", "title": "United States House Permanent Select Committee on Aging", "text": "United States House Permanent Select Committee on Aging\n\nThe United States House Permanent Select Committee on Aging was a permanent select committee of the United States House of Representatives between 1974 and 1992.\n\nThe committee was created with the intent not of forming legislation directly, but of conducting investigations and holding hearings. In such a manner it would spur legislation and other action via regular committee channels. The action to approve the committee was passed on October 8, 1974, by a 299–44 margin in the House. \n\nThe committee became operational in June 1975 and initially had 35 members. Its first chair was Missouri's William J. Randall. The committee soon grew to 65 members. Florida's Claude Pepper, a powerful and influential member of Congress known for his commitment to representing the elderly, became chair in 1977 following Randall's retirement. In his late seventies and early eighties while chairing the committee, Pepper was renowned for his fast-paced presence in Congress; he used himself and the committee to focus attention against the problem of age stereotyping. The committee soon grew to 65 members. In 1983, Pepper stepped aside and Edward R. Roybal of California became chair. \n\nThe committee conducted research and held public hearings into the issues affecting older Americans. Hearings were given titles, such as 1983's \"Endless Night, Endless Mourning: Living with Alzheimer's\". In particular, the committee held hearings and published a number of reports on elder abuse, including \"Elder Abuse: An Examination of a Hidden Problem\", \"Elder Abuse: A National Disgrace\", and \"Elder Abuse: A Decade of Shame and Inaction\".\n\nThe committee's work led to the passage of reform legislation intended to reform nursing home operations and reducing abuse against their patients. Also resulting were increased home care benefits for the aging as well as legislation establishing research and care centers for Alzheimer's Disease.\n\nThe committee's work came to an end on October 9, 1992, at the conclusion of the 102nd Congress. It was not renewed during the 103rd Congress, as the House was under pressure to reduce its internal costs and to streamline the legislative process.\n\n"}
{"id": "43498968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43498968", "title": "Urban Justice Center", "text": "Urban Justice Center\n\nThe Urban Justice Center is a non-profit legal services and advocacy organization serving the New York City area. It is known as a breeding ground for progressive programs and initiatives and for being a significant legal presence in the struggles of New York's poverty stricken and minority populations.\n\nFounded in 1984 as the Legal Action Center for the Homeless by Douglas Lasdon, the Urban Justice Center (UJC) works for vulnerable New Yorkers through direct civil legal, political organizing, legislative advocacy and policy education. Some of the UJC's important legal victories in aid of the indigent include Doe v. City of New York, Tolle v. Dinkins, and joint legal action with other groups against the Grand Central Partnership and the 34th Street Partnership for hiring homeless employees at $1 an hour. The UJC's community building and immigrant aid programming was also recently recognized by New York City by their naming as finalists in the Competition THRIVE.\n\nOriginally operating from a burned-out building in Harlem staffed only by Lasdon the UJC has relocated to Lower Manhattan and as of 2013 has a staff of over 100 with an operating budget of over $7.5 million. The UJC has provided 96,000 people with community legal education and has closed 8,881 cases thus far. Real estate deals undertaken by Lasdon in 2007 led to the $5.7 million sale, close to 10 times the initial amount paid for, of the UJC office space at 666 Broadway in 1997. The UJC's headquarters are located on Rector Street, and were purchased with its real estate profits and a $5 million grant from New York City.\n\nThe UJC sponsors the International Refugee Assistance Project (IRAP), which works to organize law students and lawyers to develop and enforce legal and human rights for refugees and displaced persons. They have offices in New York City, Jordan, and Lebanon. IRAP is a plaintiff in the 2017 decision \"International Refugee Assistance Project v. Trump\" and co-counsel in \"Darweesh v. Trump\".\n\nThe UJC is made up of 10 anti-poverty projects devoted to specific goals and clientele. Projects are led by directors who are empowered to manage the staffing, fundraising and advocacy work for their individual projects almost autonomously. The Executive Office of the UJC provides overhead funding for the organization and overall mission direction. The Executive Office led by the UJC’s Founder and Executive Director along with two Associate Directors and maintains a support staff of administrators, development and financial officers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10752609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10752609", "title": "Vacco v. Quill", "text": "Vacco v. Quill\n\nVacco v. Quill, 521 U.S. 793 (1997), is a landmark decision of the Supreme Court of the United States regarding the right to die. It ruled 9-0 that a New York ban on physician-assisted suicide was constitutional, and preventing doctors from assisting their patients, even those terminally ill and/or in great pain, was a legitimate state interest that was well within the authority of the state to regulate. In brief, this decision established that, as a matter of law, there was no constitutional guarantee of a \"right to die.\"\n\nThe State of New York had enacted a prohibition against physician-assisted suicide, making it a crime for a physician to administer lethal medication or to otherwise knowingly and intentionally end the life of a patient, even a consenting, mentally competent, and terminally ill patient. \n\nA number of physicians (here the respondents) filed suit against New York's Attorney General, in United States District Court, challenging the law on constitutional grounds. The respondents argued that the statute violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, noting that a patient, while still enjoying the right to refuse treatment when terminally ill, did not enjoy the right to authorize a doctor to end their life. In effect, the respondents argued that refusing treatment and requesting that their doctor assist them in ending their life were \"the same thing.\"\n\nThe District Court ruled in favor of the New York statute. In its decision, the court stated that the State of New York had a rational, legitimate interest in preserving life and protecting vulnerable persons; as such, the law was not unconstitutional. The District Court said that this was a matter of legislation, and, if the ban were to be repealed, it would take an act of New York's legislature (or a binding referendum by the voters) to do so. \n\nThe Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the District Court's judgment. The Appeals Court reasoned that, even though the law itself applied as a general rule to all persons, a fact that the District Court noted in determining its constitutionality, it did not treat all competent patients equally when they were near death and wished to end their lives. To this effect, the Appeals Court said that, for example, a patient attached to a life support device was allowed to require its removal, while a person under identical circumstances could not demand that a doctor administer drugs to ensure the patient's death. It agreed with the contention that removing life support devices was identical to requesting physician-assisted euthanasia, and thereby reversed the lower court's finding. \n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States granted certiorari, hearing arguments on January 8, 1997.\n\nOn June 26, 1997, the Supreme Court issued six different opinions in a unanimous (9-0) decision. The majority opinion was authored by Chief Justice Rehnquist, and was joined by Justices O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, and Thomas. Justice O'Connor wrote a concurring opinion, joined in part by Justices Ginsburg and Breyer. Justices Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer filed separate concurring opinions. \n\nThe Court began its opinion by stating that the New York law did not infringe upon a fundamental right. In this line of reasoning, the Court referenced \"San Antonio School District v. Rodriguez\" ' which said, in relevant part, that the judiciary must look to the Constitution, rather than to the stated \"importance\" of a right, when determining whether that right was, indeed, fundamental. Because New York's ban did not infringe upon a fundamental right, and because respondents were not claiming that the \"right to die\" was fundamental, the Court reiterated its policy of according such laws a great deal of leeway. In the Court's own words, from \"Heller v. Doe\", ' laws such as those enacted by New York were entitled to a \"strong presumption of validity.\"\n\nAfter addressing the matter of fundamental rights, the Court delineated the rationale behind its decision. It first turned to the long-standing legal tradition of looking to a person's intent as a way of distinguishing between two acts with identical physical consequences. For example, a person who accidentally kills a pedestrian while blinded by the sun might only face punishment for vehicular manslaughter, while a person who intentionally and purposefully kills another with his car could be punished for murder. While these two acts give the same results, they are distinguished by the intent of the actors. \n\nThe Court applied the standard of intent to the matter at hand, finding that a doctor who withdraws life support at the request of his patient intends only to respect his patient's wishes. This, the Court said, is a sharp contrast to the doctor who honors a patient's request to end their life, which necessarily requires more than an intent to respect their wishes; namely, it requires the intent to kill the patient. A major difference, the Court determined, in the two scenarios is that the former \"may\" cause the patient to die from \"underlying causes\", while the latter \"will\" cause the patient to die by the hands of the \"physician\". To this effect the Court quoted a House Judiciary Committee hearing, stating that a physician performing an assisted suicide, \"must, necessarily and indubitably, intend primarily that the patient be made dead.\" Furthermore, in another repudiation of the respondents' argument, the Court noted that a patient removing life support might not actually intend to die, and that death without such a device may not be a certainty.\n\nLooking to New York's intent behind the ban, the Court noted that the law plainly recognized the difference between \"killing\" and \"letting die.\" It also recognized that the State of New York had, as a matter of policy, a compelling interest in forbidding assisted suicide, while allowing a patient to refuse life support was simply an act of protecting a common-law right. This right was not, contrary to the Court of Appeals' view, the \"right to hasten death\"; rather, the Court declared that it was the right to retain bodily integrity and to preserve individual autonomy. The prevention of \"unwanted touching\" was, the Court said, a very legitimate right to protect. \n\nIn closing, the Court said that it fully rejected the respondents' argument that the statutory difference between assisted suicide and refusing lifesaving treatment was \"arbitrary\" and \"irrational.\" It did concede that there were probably incidents where the two were likely to have the same result, but also said that such an argument was beside the point. The Court declared that New York \"obviously\" had a number of legitimate, compelling, and rational interests in enacting this ban. However, regardless of these reasons, it determined simply that the law permitted everyone to refuse treatment and prohibited everyone from assisting suicide; as such, the law did not run afoul of the Equal Protection Clause and the state had the constitutional authority to put such a law into place.\n\nJustice O'Connor joined the Court's decision. She accepted the contention that there was neither a \"right to commit suicide\" nor a \"right to die,\" as such. She did not, however, think that the Court needed to consider the conflict beyond rejecting the facial challenges to the statute. Justice O'Connor stated that, in the context of the questions presented in this case, the Court did not need to address whether a patient had a constitutionally cognizable interest in controlling the circumstances of his or her imminent death.\" The statute, she claimed, was constitutional on its face, because the state had interests - such as protecting those who are not truly competent or facing imminent death or whose decisions would not be genuinely voluntary - of such gravity as to validate its legislation in pursuit of these interests. She said there was no constitutional conflict here; a patient was free to seek pain-relieving medication from their doctor, even at risk of health, to alleviate suffering, and this was a constitutionally acceptable alternative to permit in the absence of legalized assisted suicide. Justice O'Connor went on to say that, because everyone will face suffering of this kind (be it to themselves or a loved one), she had faith in the democratic process to strike an appropriate balance. In short, the law was up to the people of New York to decide.\n\nJustice Stevens joined the Court's decision. He stated, though, that he issued a separate opinion only to clarify his belief that there was the possibility of further debate on the constitutional limitations of a state's ability to punish assisted suicide. As the second-most senior Justice on the Court (after Chief Justice Rehnquist), it is likely that Stevens' would have written the opinion himself had Rehnquist not elected to do so. This much is suggested by the length of Stevens' concurrence which runs several pages (official format) longer than Rehnquist's opinion. It is possible that the Chief Justice was in part persuaded to exercise this ability by the fact that Stevens' concurrence offers a less concrete view of the state's ability to regulate euthanasia than the majority of the Justices seem to support.\n\nStevens notes that the Court construed the challenge to the statute as one of facial validity; i.e., that the respondents asserted that the law was invalid in all or most cases it might be applied. This type of challenge, he noted, is very difficult to argue successfully, because the challenger must show that the prohibited action is constitutionally protected. Applied to this case, the Court required that it be demonstrated that the Fourteenth Amendment included a right to commit suicide, and that such right included the right to receive assistance in doing so. Stevens agreed with the Court in rejecting this idea, believing that \"liberty\" as defined by the Due Process Clause didn't include such a right, because \"The value to others of a person's life is far too precious to allow the individual to claim a constitutional entitlement to complete autonomy in making a decision to end that life.\"\n\nIn spite of this, however, Stevens said that the debate did not necessarily end there. He noted that the Supreme Court had found capital punishment to be constitutionally permissible, but had later also said that it could potentially be impermissibly cruel. As such, simply deciding that a certain statute outlawing assisted suicide was constitutional did not mean that every possible application would be likewise. He stated that he believed that a state had a compelling interest in preventing suicide prompted by depression or coercion; however, this interest does not apply when people are competent to make decisions and who are not being coerced or abused into decision. \n\nStevens also rejected the argument, raised by the petitioners, that permitting physician-assisted suicide would taint the perception of the doctor/patient relationship. In some cases, he argued, a doctor's refusal to hasten death could be perceived as an act contrary to the doctor's role of healer. In cases such as these, he believed that the relationship would not be hindered by permitting the doctor to aid in the patient's demise. \n\nTo conclude his opinion, Stevens stated once more that he agreed with the majority finding, and that the rationale in the decision was well founded. However, he drew a distinction between finding a law generally acceptable and finding it acceptable \"in all cases\". While agreeing in principle, he noted that there could be some instances where the law unjustly infringed upon a patient's personal liberty.\n\nJustice Souter issued a short clarifying concurrence, noting that he agreed with the ruling, but also stressing that he felt the claims raised were significant enough to warrant further justification. He cited his own concurrence in \"Washington v. Glucksberg\" , reiterating that he felt the distinction between the permitted refusal of treatment and the prohibited assisted suicide was not an arbitrary one.\n\nJustice Breyer issued a joint concurrence with this case and \"Washington v. Glucksberg\". He stated that he agreed that the distinction the law made between the practices in question was justified and rational. However, he thought that the majority erred both by stating that the respondents asserted a \"right to commit suicide with another's assistance\" and by stating that the right to choose one's manner of death was not fundamental. Justice Breyer felt it would be more appropriate to consider a \"right to die with dignity.\" Regardless of the semantics, Breyer's primary disagreement with the Court was his belief that it need not, and should not, have deemed whether such a right would be fundamental. He believed that there could be cases in the future with similar yet substantially different circumstances in which the Court may be forced to reconsider the terms used in this decision.\n\nJustice Ginsburg also issued a joint concurrence with this case and \"Washington v. Glucksberg\". She stated that her reasoning largely mirrored that used by Justice O'Connor.\n\n"}
