{"id": "24677366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24677366", "title": "Academy of Performing Arts Baden-Wuerttemberg", "text": "Academy of Performing Arts Baden-Wuerttemberg\n\nThe Academy of Performing Arts Baden-Wuerttemberg (German: \"Akademie für Darstellende Kunst Baden-Württemberg\") is a public drama school in Ludwigsburg, Germany. Founded in 2007 on the campus of the Film Academy Baden-Wuerttemberg. The Academy of Performing Arts offers an interdisciplinary education, combining acting for theater and film.\n\n"}
{"id": "6751214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6751214", "title": "American Society of Naturalists", "text": "American Society of Naturalists\n\nThe American Society of Naturalists was founded in 1883 and is one of the oldest professional societies dedicated to the biological sciences in North America. The purpose of the Society is \"to advance and diffuse knowledge of organic evolution and other broad biological principles so as to enhance the conceptual unification of the biological sciences.\"\n\nFounded in Massachusetts with Alpheus Spring Packard Jr. as its first president, it was called the Society of Naturalists of the Eastern United States until 1886.\n\nThe scientific journal \"The American Naturalist\" is published on behalf of the society, which also holds an annual meeting with a scientific program of symposia and contributed papers and posters. It also confers a number of awards for achievement in evolutionary biology and/or ecology, including the Sewall Wright Award (named in honor of Sewall Wright) for senior researchers making \"fundamental contributions ... to the conceptual unification of the biological sciences\", the E. O. Wilson award for \"significant contributions\" from naturalists in mid-career, the Jasper Loftus-Hills Young Investigators Award for promising scientists early in their careers, and also the Ruth Patrick Student Poster Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "517348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517348", "title": "Amir Khusrow", "text": "Amir Khusrow\n\nAb'ul Hasan Yamīn ud-Dīn Khusrau (1253 – 1325) (, ), better known as Amīr Khusrow Dehlavī, was a Sufi musician, poet and scholar from South Asia. He was an iconic figure in the cultural history of the Indian subcontinent. He was a mystic and a spiritual disciple of Nizamuddin Auliya of Delhi. He wrote poetry primarily in Persian, but also in Hindavi. A vocabulary in verse, the \"Ḳhāliq Bārī\", containing Arabic, Persian, and Hindavi terms is often attributed to him. Khusrow is sometimes referred to as the \"voice of India\" (\"Tuti-e-Hind\"), and has been called the \"father of Urdu literature.\"\n\nKhusrow is regarded as the \"father of qawwali\" (a devotional music form of the Sufis in the Indian subcontinent), and introduced the ghazal style of song into India, both of which still exist widely in India and Pakistan.\nKhusrow was an expert in many styles of Persian poetry which were developed in medieval Persia, from Khāqānī's \"qasidas\" to Nizami's \"khamsa\". He used 11 metrical schemes with 35 distinct divisions. He wrote in many verse forms including ghazal, masnavi, qata, rubai, do-baiti and tarkib-band. His contribution to the development of the ghazal was significant.\n\nAmīr Khusrow was born in 1253 at Patiyali near Etah in modern-day Uttar Pradesh, India, in what was then the Delhi Sultanate, the son of Amīr Saif ud-Dīn Mahmūd, a man of Turkic extraction,\n\nAmīr Khusrow's father, Amīr Saif ud-Dīn Mahmūd, was born a member of the Lachin tribe of Transoxania, themselves belonging to the Kara-Khitai set of Turkic tribes. He belonged to Kesh, a small town near Samarkhand in what is now Uzbekistan, and that is where he grew up. When he was a young man, that country was despoiled and ravaged by Genghis Khan's invasion of Central Asia, and much of the population fled to other lands, India being a favored destination. Amir Saif ud-Din migrated from his hometown of Kesh to Balkh (now in northern Afghanistan), which was a relatively safe place; from here, they sent representations seeking refuge and succour to the Sultan of distant Delhi. This was granted, and the group then travelled to Delhi. Sultan Shams ud-Din Iltutmish, ruler of Delhi, was himself a Turk like them; indeed, he had been raised in the same region of central Asia, and had undergone somewhat similar circumstances in earlier life. He not only welcomed the refugees to his court but also granted high offices and landed estates to some of them. Iltutmish provided shelter and lavish patronage to exiled princes, artisans, scholars and rich nobles. In 1230, Amir Saif ud-Din was granted a fief in the district of Patiyali.\n\nAmeer khushak married Bibi Daulatnaz, the daughter of Rawat Arz, Hindu noble and war minister of Ghiyas ud-Din Balban, the ninth Sultan of Delhi. Daulatnaz's family belonged to the Rajput community of modern-day Uttar Pradesh.\n\nAmir Saif ud-Din and Bibi Daulatnaz became the parents of four children: three sons (one of whom was Khusrow) and a daughter. Amir Saif ud-Din Mahmud died in 1260, when Khusrow was only seven years old. After the death of her husband, Khusrow's mother moved back to her father's house in Delhi with her children. It was thus in the house of his Rajput maternal grandfather, Rawat Arz (known by his title as Imad-ul-Mulk), that Khusrow was raised. He thus grew up very close to the culture and traditions of Indian society. Over and over again in his poetry, and throughout his life, he affirmed that he was an Indian Turk (\"Turk-e Hind\").\n\nKhusrow was an intelligent child. He started learning and writing poetry at the age of eight. His first divan, \"Tuhfat us-Sighr\" (The Gift of Childhood), containing poems composed between the ages of 16 and 18, was compiled in 1271. In 1273, when Khusrow was 20 years old, his grandfather, who was reportedly 113 years old, died.\n\nAfter Khusrow's grandfather's death, Khusrow joined the army of Malik Chajju, a nephew of the reigning Sultan, Ghiyas ud din Balban. This brought his poetry to the attention of the Assembly of the Royal Court where he was honored.\n\nNasir ud-Din Bughra Khan, the second son of Balban, was invited to listen to Khusrow. He was impressed and became Khusrow's patron in 1276. In 1277 Bughra Khan was then appointed ruler of Bengal, and Khusrow visited him in 1279 while writing his second divan, \"Wast ul-Hayat\" (The Middle of Life). Khusrow then returned to Delhi. Balban's eldest son, Khan Muhammad (who was in Multan), arrived in Delhi, and when he heard about Khusrow he invited him to his court. Khusrow then accompanied him to Multan in 1281. Multan at the time was the gateway to India and was a center of knowledge and learning. Caravans of scholars, tradesmen and emissaries transited through Multan from Baghdad, Arabia and Persia on their way to Delhi. Khusrow wrote that:\nOn 9 March 1285, Khan Muhammad was killed in battle while fighting Mongols who were invading the Sultanate. Khusrow wrote two elegies in grief of his death. In 1287, Khusrow travelled to Awadh with another of his patrons, Amir Ali Hatim. At the age of eighty, Balban called his second son Bughra Khan back from Bengal, but Bughra Khan refused. After Balban's death in 1287, his grandson Muiz ud-Din Qaiqabad, Bughra Khan's son, was made the Sultan of Delhi at the age of 17. Khusrow remained in Qaiqabad's service for two years, from 1287 to 1288. In 1288 Khusrow finished his first masnavi, \"Qiran us-Sa'dain\" (Meeting of the Two Auspicious Stars), which was about Bughra Khan meeting his son Muiz ud-Din Qaiqabad after a long enmity. After Qaiqabad suffered a stroke in 1290, nobles appointed his three-year-old son Shams ud-Din Kayumars as Sultan. A Turko-Afghan named Jalal ud-Din Firuz Khalji then marched on Delhi, killed Qaiqabad and became Sultan, thus ending the Mamluk dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate and starting the Khalji dynasty.\n\nJalal ud-Din Firuz Khalji appreciated poetry and invited many poets to his court. Khusrow was honoured and respected in his court and was given the title \"Amir\". He was given the job of \"Mushaf-dar\". Court life made Khusrow focus more on his literary works. Khusrow's ghazals which he composed in quick succession were set to music and were sung by singing girls every night before the Sultan. Khusrow writes about Jalal ud-Din Firuz:\n\nIn 1290 Khusrow completed his second masnavi, \"Miftah ul-Futuh\" (Key to the Victories), in praise of Jalal ud-Din Firuz's victories. In 1294 Khusrow completed his third divan, \"Ghurrat ul-Kamaal\" (The Prime of Perfection), which consisted of poems composed between the ages of 34 and 41.\n\nAfter Jalal ud-Din Firuz, Ala ud-Din Khalji ascended to the throne of Delhi in 1296. Khusrow wrote the \"Khaza'in ul-Futuh\" (The Treasures of Victory) recording Ala ud-Din's construction works, wars and administrative services. He then composed a khamsa (quintet) with five masnavis, known as \"Khamsa-e-Khusrow\" (Khamsa of Khusrow), completing it in 1298. The khamsa emulated that of the earlier poet of Persian epics, Nizami Ganjavi. The first masnavi in the khamsa was \"Matla ul-Anwar\" (Rising Place of Lights) consisting of 3310 verses (completed in 15 days) with ethical and Sufi themes. The second masnavi, \"Khusrow-Shirin\", consisted of 4000 verses. The third masnavi, \"Laila-Majnun\", was a romance. The fourth voluminous masnavi was \"Aina-e-Sikandari\", which narrated the heroic deeds of Alexander the Great in 4500 verses. The fifth masnavi was \"Hasht-Bihisht\", which was based on legends about Bahram V, the fifteenth king of the Sasanian Empire. All these works made Khusrow a leading luminary in the world of poetry. Ala ud-Din Khalji was highly pleased with his work and rewarded him handsomely. When Ala ud-Din's son and future successor Qutb ud-Din Mubarak Shah Khalji was born, Khusrow prepared the horoscope of Mubarak Shah Khalji in which certain predictions were made. This horoscope is included in the masnavi \"Saqiana\".\n\nIn 1300, when Khusrow was 47 years old, his mother and brother died. He wrote these lines in their honour:\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em\">\nA double radiance left my star this year\nGone are my brother and my mother,\nMy two full moons have set and ceased to shine\nIn one short week through this ill-luck of mine.\n</poem>\nKhusrow's homage to his mother on her death was:\nIn 1310 Khusrow became close to a Sufi saint of the Chishti Order, Nizamuddin Auliya. In 1315, Khusrow completed the romantic masnavi \"Duval Rani - Khizr Khan\" (Duval Rani and Khizr Khan), about the marriage of the Vaghela princess Duval Rani to Khizr Khan, one of Ala ud-Din Khalji's sons.\n\nAfter Ala ud-Din Khalji's death in 1316, his son Qutb ud-Din Mubarak Shah Khalji became the Sultan of Delhi. Khusrow wrote a masnavi on Mubarak Shah Khalji called \"Nuh Sipihr\" (Nine Skies), which described the events of Mubarak Shah Khalji's reign. He classified his poetry in nine chapters, each part of which is considered a \"sky\". In the third chapter he wrote a vivid account of India and its environment, seasons, flora and fauna, cultures, scholars, etc. He wrote another book during Mubarak Shah Khalji's reign by name of \"Ijaz-e-Khusravi\" (The Miracles of Khusrow), which consisted of five volumes. In 1317 Khusrow compiled \"Baqia-Naqia\" (Remnants of Purity). In 1319 he wrote \"Afzal ul-Fawaid\" (Greatest of Blessings), a work of prose that contained the teachings of Nizamuddin Auliya.\n\nIn 1320 Mubarak Shah Khalji was killed by Khusro Khan, who thus ended the Khalji dynasty and briefly became Sultan of Delhi. Within the same year, Khusro Khan was captured and beheaded by Ghiyath al-Din Tughlaq, who became Sultan and thus began the Tughlaq dynasty. In 1321 Khusrow began to write a historic masnavi named \"Tughlaq Nama\" (Book of the Tughlaqs) about the reign of Ghiyath al-Din Tughlaq and that of other Tughlaq rulers.\n\nKhusrow died in October 1325, six months after the death of Nizamuddin Auliya. Khusrow's tomb is next to that of his spiritual master in the Nizamuddin Dargah in Delhi. \"Nihayat ul-Kamaal\" (The Zenith of Perfection) was compiled probably a few weeks before his death.\n\nKhusrow is credited with fusing the Persian, Arabic, Turkish, and Indian musical traditions in the late 13th century to create qawwali, a form of Sufi devotional music. Qaul (Arabic: قَوْل) is an \"utterance (of the prophet)\", Qawwāl is someone who often repeats (sings) a Qaul, and Qawwāli is what a Qawwāl sings. The word \"sama\" is often still used in Central Asia and Turkey to refer to forms very similar to qawwali.\n\nAmir Khusrow was a prolific classical poet associated with the royal courts of more than seven rulers of the Delhi Sultanate. He wrote many playful riddles, songs and legends which have become a part of popular culture in South Asia. His riddles are one of the most popular forms of Hindavi poetry today. It is a genre that involves double entendre or wordplay. Innumerable riddles by the poet have been passed through oral tradition over the last seven centuries. Through his literary output, Khusrow represents one of the first recorded Indian personages with a true multicultural or pluralistic identity. Musicians credit Khusrau with the creation of six styles of music: qaul, qalbana, naqsh, gul, tarana and khyal, but there is insufficient evidence for this.\n\nAmir Khusro’s putative associations with the Tarana run much deeper. One of the most persistent legends of Hindustani music relates to the encounter between Amir Khusro, who was then associated with the court of emperor Allauddin Khalji, and Gopal Nayak, court-musician to the king of Devagiri. Allauddin commanded Gopal Nayak to present the Raga Kadambak for six evenings running. During the entire performance, Khusro lay concealed under the emperor’s throne, and stealthily absorbed all that the Nayak had sung. On the seventh day, he astonished everyone present in the court by reproducing all that Gopal Nayak had presented. However, since he couldn’t follow the Nayak’s language, he substituted the text of the compositions with meaningless syllables. And that is how the Tarana was born! (Willard 1834: 121) \n\nKhusrow wrote primarily in Persian. Many Hindustani (historically known as Hindavi) verses are attributed to him, since there is no evidence for their composition by Khusrow before the 18th century. The language of the Hindustani verses appears to be relatively modern. He also wrote a war ballad in Punjabi. In addition, he spoke Arabic and Sanskrit. His poetry is still sung today at Sufi shrines throughout Pakistan and India.\n\nIn 1976 the renowned Pakistani musician Khurshid Anwar played a key role in observing the 700th birth anniversary of Amir Khusrow. Since he was also a musicologist, he wrote one of his rare music articles on Amir Khusrow, \"A gift to posterity\". In addition, he actively planned music events and activities throughout 1976. In Pakistan, Anwar had also been praised for his efforts to keep alive classical music not only through his many film compositions in Pakistan, but also through his unique collection of classical music performances recorded by EMI Pakistan, known as \"Aahang-e-Khusravi\" in two parts in 1978. The second part of the \"Aahang-e-Khusravi\" recordings was known as \"Gharanon Ki Gaiyki\" which consisted of audio recordings of representatives of the main gharanas of classical singers in Pakistan on 20 audio cassettes. All this was meant to be a tribute to Amir Khusrow.\n\nInscribed in the top terrace of the Shalimar Bagh, Srinagar (now in Jammu and Kashmir, India), are some famous phrases in Persian, which are sometimes attributed to Khusrow, although are not found in any of his written works:\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em\">\nAgar Firdaus bar ru-ye zamin ast,\nHamin ast o hamin ast o hamin ast.\n</poem>\nIn English: \"If there is a paradise on earth, it is this, it is this, it is this.\"\nThis verse is also found on several Mughal structures, supposedly in reference to Kashmir.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32437568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32437568", "title": "Anguillian cuisine", "text": "Anguillian cuisine\n\nAnguillian cuisine is the cuisine of Anguilla, a British overseas territory in the Caribbean, one of the most northerly of the Leeward Islands in the Lesser Antilles. The cuisine is influenced by native Caribbean, African, Spanish, French and English cuisines.\n\nSeafood is abundant, and includes prawns, shrimp, crab, spiny lobster, conch, mahi-mahi, red snapper, marlin and grouper. Salt cod is a staple food eaten by itself and used in stews, casseroles and soups.\n\nLivestock is limited due to the small size of the island, and people there utilize poultry, pork, goat and mutton, along with imported beef. Goat is the most commonly eaten meat, and is utilized in a variety of dishes. A significant amount of the island's produce is imported due to limited land suitable for agriculture production; much of the soil is sandy and infertile.\n\nAmong the agriculture produced in Anguilla includes tomatoes, peppers, limes and other citrus fruits, onion, garlic, squash, pigeon peas and \"callalloo\", a leaf green native to Africa. Starch staple foods include imported rice and other foods that are locally-grown or imported, including yams, sweet potatoes and breadfruit. Potatoes are also consumed, although less frequently than other starches. Flour and cornmeal are also starches used in Anguillian cuisine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37291126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37291126", "title": "Anna (video game)", "text": "Anna (video game)\n\nAnna is a 2012 puzzle video game for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and Linux.\n\nNarratively a psychological horror set in an abandoned sawmill nestled high in the Italian mountains, \"Anna\" challenges the player to uncover horrific clues and use them to solve puzzles related to the player character's dark past. The player's behavior does determine the mental health of the main character and change locations and unveil new secrets leading to different endings.\n\nOn 13 April 2013, the \"Extended Edition\" was released which added new environments, puzzles, user interface, music, improved graphics, and a new character.\n\nThe storyline of \"Anna\" concerns an amnesiac man who dreams of a sawmill in the mountains near his town. He decides to go there to find out its connection to his missing memories and a woman named \"Anna\" who seems to be calling out for him, and enters the house by solving puzzles in the garden. He becomes aware that the house is haunted after seeing several strange phenomena.\n\nAs the protagonist explores, he begins to hear voices belonging to himself and the eponymous Anna, among others. Through these voices and texts found throughout the sawmill, he discovers that he has had an obsessive history with an ancient deity named Anna that he had since forgotten. However, the plot is ambiguous from this point; one interpretation holds that in times of yore, Anna would lure men into worship, causing them to murder those close to them or starve themselves at the feet of her statue, and after she seduced the protagonist, he murdered his own wife and children for threatening his relationship with Anna. The other interpretation paints the protagonist as the villain, meeting a human avatar of Anna in the forest and falling in love with her. However, after she left because of his obsession with her and abusive personality, he sacrificed children to summon her again.\n\nThe game has three main endings; in an inversion of the norm, the more effort that is put into achieving an ending, the less optimistic the conclusion will be. In the first scenario, the protagonist concludes that Anna was burnt as a witch centuries ago and leaves the house, vowing never to return. In the second ending, the protagonist reminisces about Anna, realizes that he cannot live without her, and opens himself up to possession by her, joining the multitude of mannequins that are found throughout the house. In the third ending, the protagonist remembers killing his real wife after she defiled Anna's statue, and finds the statue, along with dolls of his children, in a small chamber. As the tunnel to the chamber caves in, he realizes that he will stay in the chamber forever, but he does not care because he has \"Anna\" with him.\n\nThe plot is ambiguous due to the uncertainty of the protagonist as to whether or not the sawmill is real or merely a dream, as well as the strange phenomena that occur throughout the story and the vague and unconnected nature of the voices.\n\nDreampainters, the development studio, based the story on legends from the Val D'Ayas region of Italy, particularly one about a sawmill where a lumberjack killed his family. They claimed that the game's focus was on mystery-solving and exploration, with the player being able to discover the plot at their own pace. One of Anna's particularly infamous features, the ability to pick up any object (no matter if it will be used later on in the game), was apparently based on the developers' hatred for adventure games and cartoons where the important objects were made more obvious to the viewer.\n\nAnna would reportedly have a feature whereby the game would interpret the player's actions to try and scare them; for example, if a player focused on a particular object for too long, that object would appear more often. However, no such feature appeared in the game. Dreampainters also claimed that the extent of the protagonist's descent into madness would determine the ending, but the ending was actually determined by when the player decided to leave the sawmill.\n\n\"Anna\" received mixed reviews from critics. The graphics, story and sound were praised, but it was criticized for the obscurity of its narrative, complexity of its interface, and difficulty of its puzzles. The horror elements were both praised and criticized by different reviews; IGN said that the lack of death removed any sense of threat, while Zero Punctuation praised the horror but claimed the immersion was broken by the necessity of a walkthrough. It received a score of 49.13% on GameRankings and 55/100 on Metacritic.\n"}
{"id": "17733441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17733441", "title": "Archaeology of Iowa", "text": "Archaeology of Iowa\n\nThe archaeology of Iowa is the study of the buried remains of human culture within the U.S. state of Iowa from the earliest prehistoric through the late historic periods. When the American Indians first arrived in what is now Iowa more than 13,000 years ago, they were hunters and gatherers living in a Pleistocene glacial landscape. By the time European explorers visited Iowa, American Indians were largely settled farmers with complex economic, social, and political systems. This transformation happened gradually. During the Archaic period (10,500–2,800 years ago) American Indians adapted to local environments and ecosystems, slowly becoming more sedentary as populations increased. More than 3,000 years ago, during the Late Archaic period, American Indians in Iowa began utilizing domesticated plants. The subsequent Woodland period saw an increase on the reliance on agriculture and social complexity, with increased use of mounds, ceramics, and specialized subsistence. During the Late Prehistoric period (beginning about AD 900) increased use of maize and social changes led to social flourishing and nucleated settlements. The arrival of European trade goods and diseases in the Protohistoric period led to dramatic population shifts and economic and social upheaval, with the arrival of new tribes and early European explorers and traders. During the Historical period European traders and American Indians in Iowa gave way to American settlers and Iowa was transformed into an agricultural state.\n\nArchaeologists have studied the prehistory of Iowa since the mid-19th century, when large American Indian mounds were first observed along the Mississippi. Early archaeologists such as S.V. Proudfit and Theodore Lewis documented large sites such as earthworks, mounds, and earthlodges. Truly systematic recording of Iowa sites began with Charles R. Keyes and Ellison Orr’s surveys and excavations beginning in the 1920s. Documenting hundreds of sites, often just before they disappeared under the plow, Keyes’ and Orr’s work led to the formation of the Iowa Archaeological Survey, the Iowa Archeological Society, and the designation of Effigy Mounds National Monument. After their deaths in 1951, the Survey was disbanded, and their efforts were continued by the University of Iowa’s Department of Sociology and Anthropology, which formed the Office of the State Archaeologist (OSA) in 1959. The OSA maintains an extensive list of more than 23,000 recorded archaeological sites in Iowa, and conducts survey and excavation across the state. Other institutions conducting archaeological research in Iowa include the State Historical Society of Iowa, the Iowa Archeological Society, the University of Iowa, Iowa State University, Grinnell College, Luther College, and private archaeological firms. Professional archaeologists in Iowa are represented by the Association of Iowa Archaeologists. Iowa archaeology grew dramatically beginning in the 1960s with the introduction of Cultural Resources Management legislation that required archaeological survey and excavation at many federal projects in Iowa.\n\nPaleoindian hunters and gatherers were the first occupants of Iowa, entering the state at the end of the Pleistocene glacial period. At the time the state was covered by tundra, conifer forests, and deciduous forests. Areas immediately north of Des Moines extending to Minnesota were covered by the receding Des Moines Lobe, a large glacier system. Highly mobile, their sites are scattered across Iowa and are noted for their large stone points. While Paleoindians were traditionally viewed as big game hunters, more recent research suggests much of their subsistence was derived from small game and wild plants. Paleoindian points are found throughout Iowa, but almost no intact Paleoindian sites have been excavated, probably because they were ephemeral and are now either destroyed by plowing or are very deeply buried in river valleys.\n\nThe oldest artifacts found in Iowa are Clovis points, large lanceolate points found occasionally in all parts of the state except for the Des Moines Lobe. Possible sources of game were giant Pleistocene megafauna, including mammoth, mastodon, and giant forms of bison, all of which are now extinct. While widespread, only two Clovis sites have been excavated in Iowa. The Rummells-Maske site is a Clovis site in Cedar County; unfortunately, this site was damaged by plowing, although 20 points and point fragments were recovered. The Carlisle Clovis Cache Site in Warren County contained 38 unfinished stone tools that appear to date to the Clovis period, but these results have not yet been published.\n\nOther Iowa Early Paleoindian points include Gainey, a point that appears to be intermediate between Clovis and Folsom. Gainey points were also recovered at Rummells-Maske. While Folsom points are found throughout Iowa, especially western Iowa, none have been excavated in a well-preserved site.\n\nAt the beginning of the glacial-free Holocene Epoch, humans in Iowa utilized projectile point found throughout the mid-continent, including Dalton, Fayette, Agate Basin, and Hell Gap. Humans were still highly mobile, and by this time most of the Pleistocene megafauna had gone extinct. As with the Early Paleoindian period, no intact Late Paleoindian sites have been excavated in Iowa.\n\nThe Archaic is the longest period of Iowa prehistory, lasting about 8,000 years. Overall, populations appear to have increased in Iowa during the Archaic, despite a changing climate. During this time American Indians transitioned from highly mobile hunters and gatherers with large ranges towards a focus on local resources and ecosystems. Domesticated plants appeared in Iowa towards the end of the Archaic.\n\nDuring the Early Archaic period regional variation in point forms is seen in Iowa, and Indians adapted to more localized forms of hunting and gathering while probably maintaining seasonal movements from camp to camp. Common stone tool types are Corner-notched St. Charles points and Thebes Knives. Soon Hardin and Kirk points appear in Iowa as well. Excavated Early Archaic sites in Iowa include the Soldow Site, Horizons IIIa and II of the Cherokee Sewer Site, and the Simonsen Site.\n\nTemperatures rose in the mid-continent during the Middle Archaic, a warming trend known as the Hypsithermal. Grasslands expanded east, forests became less common, and many Iowa lakes shrank or disappeared. Humans responded by diversifying their subsistence strategy: eastern Iowa saw a shift towards river resources, and western Iowa towards Plains resources. Excavated sites in eastern and central Iowa include the Brash Site, the Gast Spring Site, and the Ed’s Meadow Site. Western Iowa sites include the Turin Site, Horizon I of the Cherokee Sewer Site, and the Pony Creek Site.\n\nIn the Late Archaic the climate became more similar to modern with the end of the Hypsithermal. The number of Late Archaic Sites increased in Iowa, perhaps reflective of increased populations allowed by climate change and new subsistence strategies. The Late Archaic sees the first indication of mound building in Iowa, as well as direct evidence of domesticated plants, and large, long-term settlements. The Red Ocher Culture appeared in northeast Iowa, associated with copper artifacts and mound building. Numerous Late Archaic sites have been excavated in eastern Iowa, some showing the gradual adaptation of cultigens, including squash, little barley, marsh elder, and barnyard grass. Sites with evidence for early cultigens in Iowa include the Edgewater Park Site in Coralville, the Gast Spring Site, and the Sand Run Slough West Site. In western Iowa, Late Archaic sites are common, however large bison killing or processing sites are less common than before, and there is little evidence for the use of domesticated plants.\n\nDuring the Woodland period, many American Indians in Iowa shifted away from hunting and gathering and used more domesticated plants, although wild food was still important. Ceramics, the bow and arrow, burial mounds, and evidence of political and social hierarchy became common at Woodland sites in Iowa.\n\nThe Early Woodland period saw the introduction of ceramics to Iowa, including Marion Thick and Black Sand types. Marion Thick may have originated with the nucleated Late Archaic cultures of the Upper Midwest, and was widespread in distribution. Early Woodland Indians in eastern Iowa built large burial mounds in the Mississippi River region, and participated in long-distance trade of exotic raw material. This long-distance trade may have been the forerunner of the later Havanna-Hopewell trading sphere. In north-central Iowa, Early Woodland peoples appear to have interacted more directly with the Prairie Lakes region of Minnesota. Numerous Early Woodland sites have been excavated in Iowa, including the Gast Spring Site, and many sites which have not been formally published.\n\nThe Middle Woodland Indians of eastern Iowa participated at the edge of the Havana and Hopewell interaction networks. This cultural connection to the East is seen in the construction of large mounds, earthworks, and the trade of exotic goods over very long distances. There were several large earthwork enclosures in Iowa along the Mississippi that date to the Middle Woodland period, but none in the interior of the state, indicating Iowa is the western edge of Havana-Hopewell influence. The Toolesboro Mound Group in Louisa County included a large octagonal earthen enclosure that covered several acres; earthworks of this style are indicative of the monumental construction once seen in Havana, Illinois along the Illinois River and sites in the Ohio River drainage including Chillicothe and Newark, Ohio. Hopewell trading networks were quite extensive, with obsidian from the Yellowstone area, copper from Lake Superior, and shells from the Gulf Coast appearing in Middle Woodland Iowa sites. Sites in eastern Iowa appeared to nucleate, vacating much of the hinterlands. Western Iowa appears to have been not directly involved in this exchange network, and the Havana-Hopewell flourishing did not extend much above the Kansas City area of the Missouri River.\n\nThe Late Woodland Period was once considered to be relatively unimportant and uninteresting compared to earlier and later periods, but recent research shows unexpected cultural complexity. Late Woodland sites are more dispersed than Middle Woodland sites, but they are apparently more numerous. Gone are the complex earthworks and long-distance trade networks, but this does not appear to be a cultural collapse, since Late Woodland sites and artifact types overlap with and transition from Middle Woodland sites. Technical changes of the Late Woodland include the use of true arrow heads, thinner and larger ceramics with less elaborate decorations, and the adaptation of new crops, including maize. Numerous regional variations and phases have been defined in Iowa, based in large extent on differences of ceramic form and decoration. Excavations at Late Woodland sites are common, some of these sites showing surprising complexity. The Gast Farm Site excavations revealed a complex settlement associated with a midden of refuse 100 m in diameter. Large storage and food processing pits, trash middens, and other features were excavated. Occupants utilized acorns, other nuts and fruits, goosefoot, little barley, maygrass, sunflower, fish, birds, deer, muskrat, and turtle. There was little evidence of long-distance trade. The Rainbow and M.A.D. sites provide a glimpse into the Late Archaic of western Iowa. At Rainbow, a large house was excavated, showing evidence of reuse and possible joint occupation by two families. Mound building became more common during the Late Woodland Period, large groups of mounds appeared including the Slinde Mound Group, and the Fish Farm Mound Group.\n\nThe Late Woodland in Iowa is perhaps best known for effigy mounds, large, low mounds shaped like animals such as birds and bears. Effigy mounds are distributed across southern Wisconsin, northern Illinois, and northeast Iowa. A large concentration of mounds in several groups is preserved at Effigy Mounds National Monument. Like most mounds in Iowa, excavation reveals that these mounds were commonly used as sacred burial locations but contain few artifacts. Recent ground-penetrating radar survey of selected mounds at Effigy Mounds National Monument reveal that many are badly disturbed, but others appear to be comparatively intact. The Folkert Mound Group in central Iowa contains an enigmatic cruciform mound that may or may not be astronomically aligned.\n\nMaize appears to have been the catalyst for change in the Late Prehistoric period in Iowa. While maize had been a minor crop in the Woodland Period, many archaeologists believe new varieties of maize were introduced to the region that produced higher yields, allowing for a population boom. This increase in population, combined with the potential for surplus and growing tensions over control of territory, appears to have led to large nucleated settlements throughout the eastern U.S. Although this manifested itself earliest along the Mississippi south of Iowa, the earliest Late Prehistoric cultures appeared in the western part of the state.\n\nGreat Oasis sites appeared in the Missouri River drainage, and have attributes of both Late Woodland and Late Prehistoric cultures. Great Oasis cultures extended through the eastern Plains from Iowa to South Dakota. Developing independently from the eastern Mississippian cultures, Great Oasis sites display large sites along major stream terraces, increased reliance on agriculture combined with hunting and gathering, substantial pit earth lodges, and a transition from Late Woodland to Late Prehistoric ceramic forms. Overall, Great Oasis appears to have been a regional adaptation of new forms of farming and settlement patterns, including seasonal occupation of different ecological zones, that includes aspects of Late Woodland and the subsequent Middle Missouri Tradition.\n\nIn northwestern Iowa, Great Oasis underwent dramatic changes as Mill Creek sites appeared. While Mill Creek has many stylistic similarities with Great Oasis and some Mill Creek sites contain Great Oasis ceramic forms, Mill Creek sites are substantially different. Mill Creek sites became nucleated, often fortified, had a much higher dependence on maize and bison hunting, show substantial evidence of long-distance trade, and appear to have been occupied year-round. The Phipps and Chan-Ya-Ta sites are classic examples. Glenwood culture sites in southwest Iowa near the Missouri River appear to be unrelated to the earlier Great Oasis sites, and are notable for their large earthlodge sites. Glenwood sites appear to have been more oriented in lifeways and trade with the Central Plains Tradition cultures to the west than with the Mississippian cultures to the southeast. Around 1300 AD Mill Creek and Glenwood sites in Iowa disappeared, replaced by the rapidly spreading Oneota cultures.\n\nVery large Mississippian centers appeared around AD 1000, with enormous earthen pyramids, palisades, and extreme social hierarchy. The earliest large Mississippian center was Cahokia, east of St. Louis. Cahokia appears to have dominated trade in the upper Mississippi, with satellite or closely aligned settlements as far as Aztalan in Wisconsin. In Iowa, there is little evidence of Mississippian occupation, and the Late Woodland lasts longer in the east than in the west. This is puzzling, given the proximity to Mississippian cultures; it is possible that the nearby presence of the large, hierarchal Mississippian trading network inhibited local development. After the decline of the Cahokia network after AD 1250 the local Late Woodland populations expanded in complexity, developing large nucleated villages and their own trading network, known as Oneota. Oneota, named by Charles Keyes for a river in northeast Iowa, was a large cultural manifestation that covered the Upper Midwest at the edge of the Mississippian cultures. Oneota sites are easily identifiable by the globular, shell tempered pots, which typically have strap handles and incised designs. Pots of this kind were well designed for the cooking of porridge and foods made from the various cultivated foods of the area. Important Oneota sites in Iowa include Kingston, Mckinney, Christenson, Blood Run, Hartley Fort, the Lane Enclosure, three sites in downtown Des Moines, and sites along the Upper Iowa River, including several large earthwork enclosures. After the decline of the Mill Creek and Glenwood cultures in western Iowa, Oneota cultures appeared across the state. It is widely accepted that the Oneota were the ancestors of modern American Indian tribes associated with Iowa, including the Ioway, Ho-Chunk (Winnebago), Otoe, Missouria, and Omaha.\n\nProtohistoric refers to the period when American Indians were exposed to European trade items and large population shifts occurred because of introduced European diseases and warfare, but there is very little direct written documentation. Explorers such as Marquette and Joliet occasionally documented American Indians along the Mississippi in Iowa, but it was not until the early 19th century that regular written accounts of American Indians in Iowa became common. American Indians in the early Protohistoric period continued many aspects of Oneota culture, but soon almost all indigenous technology disappeared, including ceramics and stone tool production. It was during this period that the Meskwaki (Fox) and Sauk appeared in eastern Iowa, displaced from their homelands in the east. Important protohistoric sites include Milford; Blood Run; Gillett Grove; and Iowaville.\n\nThe earliest European forts and settlements were established by traders beginning in the 1680s. Almost none of these ephemeral early historical sites have been located archaeologically. Julien Dubuque’s Mines of Spain settlement and adjacent Meskwaki village occupied in the late 18th century and early 19th century, has been the subject of numerous archaeological surveys. Fort Madison (1808–1813), the first American settlement and the first American fort in Iowa, was partially excavated in 1965. American settlement began in earnest in the 1830s, and the official removal of American Indians from Iowa was completed by 1852. Several of these historical sites have been excavated, including Gilbert’s Trading Post. and Fort Atkinson. Archaeologists have also studied historical American settlements, including excavations at the Plum Grove Historic House, the Buxton African-American community, and the Bowen’s Prairie community.\n\n"}
{"id": "550777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550777", "title": "Bundling (tradition)", "text": "Bundling (tradition)\n\nBundling, or tarrying, is the traditional practice of wrapping two people in a bed together, usually as a part of courting behavior. The tradition is thought to have originated either in the Netherlands or in the British Isles and later became common in colonial United States, especially in Pennsylvania Dutch Country. Some Nebraska Amish may still practice it. When used for courtship, the aim is to allow intimacy without sexual intercourse.\n\nIt is possible the precedent for bundling came from the biblical story of Ruth and Boaz, in which Ruth, a young widow, and Boaz, an older wealthy landowner, spend a night together in a grain storage room while not touching; the pair later get married.\n\nTraditionally, participants were adolescents, with a boy staying at the residence of the girl. They were given separate blankets by the girl's parents and expected to talk to one another through the night. Occasionally a \"bundling board\" or bundling sack was placed between the boy and girl to discourage sexual conduct.\n\nIn Colonial United States, Jonathan Edwards and other preachers condemned bundling; yet the practice continued into the period of the early Republic, when if beds were scarce, travelers occasionally were permitted to bundle with locals. This seemingly strange practice allowed extra money to be made by renting out half a bed. Some hotels rented rooms for the night, shared by many occupants, and sharing a bed entailed an additional fee.\n\nIt is possible that, as late as the mid-19th century, bundling was still practiced in New York state and perhaps in New England, though its popularity was waning. The court case of \"Graham v. Smith\", 1 Edm.Sel.Cas. 267 (N.Y. 1846), for example, initially argued before Judge Edmunds in the Orange Circuit Court of New York, concerned the seduction of a 19-year-old woman; testimony in the case established that bundling was a common practice in certain rural social circles at the time. By the 20th century, bundling seems to have disappeared almost everywhere, except for the more conservative Old Order Amish affiliations, where it is still in use in the 21st century, regardless of location.\n\nThe writer Washington Irving, in chapter 7 of \"Knickerbocker's History of New York\" as well as other of his works, refers to bundling as a Yankee practice.\nThis amazing increase may, indeed, be partly ascribed to a singular custom prevalent among them, commonly known by the name of bundling—a superstitious rite observed by the young people of both sexes, with which they usually terminated their festivities, and which was kept up with religious strictness by the more bigoted part of the community.\nGabriel Edward Martin, Heath Ledger's character in the 2000 film \"The Patriot\", is bundled when he spends an overnight visit at the home of Anne Patricia Howard (Lisa Brenner), the girl that he is courting.\n\nAnna Gunn's character in the HBO series \"Deadwood\" mentions removing a bundling board from their bed in Season 2, Episode 2.\n\nIn the TV series \"Salem\" during Season 1, Episode 7, \"Our Own Private America\", adolescent teens are seen bundling. The girl breaks the sack.\n\nIn the TV serie A Discovery of Witches during Season 1, episode 5, Matthew de Clairmont and Diana Bishop discuss the \"bundling\" custom.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "895417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=895417", "title": "Canadian studies", "text": "Canadian studies\n\nCanadian studies is a college-level study of Canadian culture, the spoken languages of Canada, Canadian literature, Quebec, agriculture in Canada, the history of Canada, and Canadian government and politics.\n\nMost universities that offer the discipline recommend that students take a double major (e.g. Political Science, International Relations or French), if not included in the course. Some careers for students who take Canadian studies include the foreign service and working at Canadian embassies or the foreign embassies in Canada.\n\nScholars known for their work in Canadian studies include Fernand Ouellet, Linda Hutcheon, George Ramsay Cook, William T. R. Fox, Annette Baker Fox, Susan Swan, Christl Verduyn, Sergey Rogov, and George Melnyk. The Governor General's International Award for Canadian Studies is an award for excellence in the field and was established in 1995 by the International Council for Canadian Studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25031973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25031973", "title": "Caribbean art", "text": "Caribbean art\n\nCaribbean art refers to the visual (including painting, photography, and printmaking) as well as plastic arts (such as sculpture) originating from the islands of the Caribbean (for mainland-Caribbean see \"Caribbean South America\"). Art in the Caribbean reflects thousands of years of habitation by Arawak, Kalinago, and other people of the Caribbean followed by waves of immigration, which included artists of European origins and subsequently by artists with heritage from countries all around the world (including countries in the African continent). The nature of Caribbean art reflects these diverse origins, as artists have taken their traditions and adapted these influences to reflect the reality of their lives in the Caribbean.\n\nThe governments of the Caribbean have at times played a central role in the development of Caribbean culture. However, some scholars and artists challenge this governmental role. Historically and in later times artists have combined British, French, Spanish, Dutch and African artistic traditions, at times embracing European styles and at other times working to promote nationalism by developing distinctly Caribbean styles. Caribbean art remains the combination of these various influences.\n\nThe first immigrants (said to be originally from the Orinoco basin) to the Caribbean region were the \"Indians\" or Taíno (those found throughout much of the Greater and Lesser Antilles), and the Arawak (those found in South America and part of Trinidad). These early Caribbean's are supposed to have occupied the region since 2000BC. In Puerto Rico and the Lesser Antilles, the Taíno-Arawak art has been found in stone carvings, figurines (which are essentially curvilinear) and pottery dating from the period before European contact and are said to be as old as twenty-four hundred years. These few discovered artifacts, preserved in museum collections, have contributed new culturally hybrid art forms.\n\nNot until the 1950s and 1960s did a small number of Caribbean artists began to renew and in some cases re-invent indigenous art forms. Currently there are no indigenous artists practicing in any media in the Caribbean.\n\nThe settlement in the Caribbean islands began by the Spanish on the island of Hispaniola as early as 1496. They then settled on Puerto Rico followed by Cuba. They did not colonise Trinidad until 1592. It is extremely unlikely that the Taíno-Arawak people had any input to the spaniade artistic developments since it has been estimated that their population was quickly depleted from 200,000 to as little as 500.\nFrench settlers arrived in the Caribbean in the 1625 and established trading ports on the islands of St. Kitts, Tortuga (in 1628, now a British Virgin Island) in Saint-Domingue (later Haiti), Martinique, and Guadeloupe (both in 1635). Near the end of the 17th century, the population of the French Caribbean was growing steadily but the territory was increasingly isolated from France because in 1674 the French trading company finally failed, and few artists had arrived from Europe. Currently little or no research has been done to highlight the early French influenced art forms originating in the Caribbean, nor to list artists who might fit within this category.\n\nAlthough Trinidad was never governed by the French, the islands original settlers, the Spanish, allowed planters from the French islands to settle and develop the country from about 1777. The effect of French occupation can be seen in the names of places and to a smaller extent in the laws of the country - so it is highly possible that art also may have early French influences. \nAccording to Jamaican art historian Petrine Archer, \"there is sparse evidence of local art production in any of the islands prior to the 20th century\" other than from the occasional visiting European. Haiti was a lone exception.\n\nArt made in the Caribbean by living Caribbean artists refers to a range of visual, media, performance, and other practices that are critically acclaimed. There has been much debate over whether a national style, philosophical outlook, or unified and cohesive culture exists or ever has existed within the Caribbean. Geographically it is large, with many distinct regions, and its population are diverse and made up of varying national and ethnic backgrounds. Also distinctions between \"high art\" and \"popular\" art seem to be becoming less clear, making the task of locating common characteristics of Caribbean art or culture increasingly difficult.\n\nTumelo Mosaka, curator at the Brooklyn Museum (NY) suggests:\nThere are, however, a few notable moments when Caribbean contemporary artists — as individuals or groups — have distinguished themselves through commonality, international recognition, collaboration, or \"the spirit of the times\".\n\nModern art in the Caribbean reflects an engagement with the region's cultural past. Archer describes recent trends as \"a self-conscious and satirical embracing of cultural memory styled in unconventional settings, installations and off-the-wall works that straddle African traditions and European post-modern ideas of 'primitive' creativity.\" It is an imagery and history which is yet to be resolved.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20818191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20818191", "title": "Chemist in Training", "text": "Chemist in Training\n\nA Chemist In Training (CIT) is a Canadian designation for someone who has obtained a degree from an accredited institution that qualifies for registration with one of the provincial or territorial chemical professional associations, but has not yet achieved the additional requirements (like relevant supervised work experience) to become accredited as a Professional Chemist (P.Chem.).\n\nA licensed CIT is certified to work in a chemistry profession. Upon completing a certain amount of work experience under the supervision of a Licensed Professional Chemist (P.Chem.) as determined by a licensing board, a CIT is then eligible to gain experience by supervision from a P.Chem.\n\nWhile being a certified CIT may help in obtaining a chemistry related job, it is not typically required to do chemistry work. All work performed by an CIT must still be checked and certified by a P.Chem.\n"}
{"id": "9962216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9962216", "title": "Commission for the Study of the Tribal Composition of the Population of the Borderlands of Russia", "text": "Commission for the Study of the Tribal Composition of the Population of the Borderlands of Russia\n\nThe Commission for the Study of the Tribal Composition of the Population of the Borderlands of Russia (, shortened to \"КИПС\", \"KIPS\") was set up in February 1917 by Sergey Oldenburg under the auspices of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Its aim was to support the war effort as expert-produced ethnographic knowledge was important during a war \"conducted to a significant degree in connection with the nationality question\".\n\nThe commission was composed of twelve leading Russian Ethnographers based in St Petersburg: Aleksey Shakhmatov, Mikhail Diakonov, Nikolai Marr, Vasily Bartold, Vladimir Peretts, Evfimii Karskii from the Academy of Sciences, Sergei Rudenko and Fedor Volkov from the Anthropological Society of St Petersburg University, Andrei Rudnev and Lev Shcherba from the University's Philological Society and David Zolotarev and Nikolai Mogiliansky from the Russian Geographical Society's Ethnographic Division.\n\nThe commission was charged with the task of producing maps of those areas which \"lie on of both sides\" of Russia's European and Asiatic borders and which are \"contiguous with our enemies\". This included Lithuania, Poland, Galicia, Ruthenia Bukovina and parts of Bessarabia in Europe and parts of Turkestan and the Caucasus bordering Iran.\n\nDifferent ethnographers advocated different approaches: Karskii wanted to focus on native language, whereas Rudenko favoured more physical anthropology – particularly to assess the suitability of local people for integration into the war effort. Following the example of the map commission of the Russian Geographical Society, they adopted a different process in Europe and Asia. They used previous material gathered by the map commission to make maps of former Russian Imperial territory then occupied by the German Army – thereby preventing any fieldwork. However to the East they dispatched ethnographic field trips which would help get a better picture of how language groups were diffused across Central Asia.\n\nOwing to the political turmoil following the February Revolution, the Commission did not get much work done until September 1917, following Oldenburg's brief stint as Minister of Education. With funding from that ministry, the commission met four times in September (5th, 8th, 9th and 25th). By early October it was working with the National Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This included drafting legislation to ensure that local languages were used in local government and particular regulations to protect the Kirgiz from Russian domination in Central Asia. In October the Provisional Government issued an official statement on the nationality question which guaranteed minority rights. They also set up the \"Commission on Nationality Affairs\" with Oldenburg at its head. However, on October 24 the Bolsheviks staged their coup. Despite his Kadet sympathies, Oldenburg entered into negotiations with Lenin on behalf of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and in 1918 when Oldenburg and six other representatives of the Academy signed an agreement with the Soviet regime, three of these were members of KIPS.\n"}
{"id": "87539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87539", "title": "Corn dolly", "text": "Corn dolly\n\nCorn dollies or corn mothers are a form of straw work made as part of harvest customs of Europe before mechanization.\n\nBefore Christianisation, in traditional pagan European culture it was believed that the spirit of the corn (in modern American English, \"corn\" would be \"grain\") lived amongst the crop, and that the harvest made it effectively homeless. James Frazer devotes chapters in \"The Golden Bough\" to \"Corn-Mother and Corn-Maiden in Northern Europe\" (chs. 45–48) and adduces European folkloric examples collected in great abundance by the folklorist Wilhelm Mannhardt. Among the customs attached to the last sheaf of the harvest were hollow shapes fashioned from the last sheaf of wheat or other cereal crops. The corn spirit would then spend the winter in this home until the \"corn dolly\" was ploughed into the first furrow of the new season.\n\nJames George Frazer discusses the Corn-mother and the Corn-maiden in Northern Europe, and the harvest rituals that were being practised at the beginning of the 20th century: \n\nMany more customs are instanced by Frazer (see link). For example, the term \"Old Woman\" (Latin \"vetula\") was in use for such \"corn dolls\" among the Germanic pagans of Flanders in the 7th century, where Saint Eligius discouraged them from their old practices: \"[Do not] make vetulas, (little figures of the Old Woman), little deer or iotticos or set tables [for the house-elf, compare Puck] at night or exchange New Year gifts or supply superfluous drinks [a Yule custom].\" Frazer writes: \"In East Prussia, at the rye or wheat harvest, the reapers call out to the woman who binds the last sheaf, “You are getting the Old Grandmother...In Scotland, when the last corn was cut after Hallowmas, the female figure made out of it was sometimes called the Carlin or Carline, that is, the Old Woman.\"\n\n\nWith the advent of the combine harvester, the old-fashioned, long-stemmed and hollow-stemmed wheat varieties were replaced with knee-high, pithy varieties. However, a number of English and Scottish farmers are still growing the traditional varieties of wheat, such as Maris Wigeon, Squarehead Master, Elite Le Peuple. mainly because they are in great demand in thatching, a craft which is enjoying a renaissance, with customers facing long waiting lists for having their roofs thatched or repaired.\n\nCorn Dollies and other similar harvest straw work can be divided into these groups:\n\n\nA countryman's favour was usually a plait of three straws and tied into a loose knot to represent a heart. It is reputed to have been made by a young man with straws picked up after the harvest and given to his loved one. If she was wearing it next to her heart when he saw her again then he would know that his love was reciprocated. Three straws can be plaited using the hair plait or a cat's foot plait. Favours can be made with two, three, four or more straws.\n\nOther examples include:\n\n\nThese are representations of deities, animals or spirits, made from an entire sheaf. They are known by a variety of names, depending on location and also the time of harvesting:\n\nHere the straw is not plaited, but tied with yarn, wool, raffia or similar. This type of straw work is particularly popular in Scandinavia and German-speaking countries. Examples of these are the Oro (Swedish Straw Crown); the Tomte or Nisse (Yule dwarfs); and smaller versions of the Yule Goat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39749075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39749075", "title": "Cultura (journal)", "text": "Cultura (journal)\n\nCultura: International Journal of Philosophy of Culture and Axiology is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal that was established in 2004 and covers philosophical work exploring different values and cultural phenomena. The journal is published in print format by Peter Lang. Online access to all issues of \"Cultura\" from 2005 to the present is provided by the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\n\"Cultura\" is abstracted and indexed in Arts and Humanities Citation Index, Humanities International Complete, Humanities International Index, International Bibliography of Periodical Literature, International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, MLA International Bibliography, Naviga, Primo Central Index, The Philosopher's Index, PhilPapers, Philosophy Research Index, Scopus, and TOC Premier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41723875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41723875", "title": "Dennard scaling", "text": "Dennard scaling\n\nDennard scaling, also known as MOSFET scaling, is a scaling law based on a 1974 paper co-authored by Robert H. Dennard, after whom it is named. Originally formulated for MOSFETs, it states, roughly, that as transistors get smaller their power density stays constant, so that the power use stays in proportion with area: both voltage and current scale (downward) with length.\n\nDennard scaling relates to Moore's law (which postulates a reduction in the size of transistors leading to more and more transistors per chip at the cost-effective optimum) and claims that the performance per watt of computing is growing exponentially at roughly the same rate. This is closely related to Koomey's law, which says that performance per watt in computing has been doubling every 1.57 years (somewhat faster than the doubling period of Moore's law, which is about 2 years).\n\nThe dynamic (switching) power consumption of CMOS circuits is proportional to frequency.\nHistorically, the transistor power reduction afforded by Dennard scaling allowed manufacturers to drastically raise clock frequencies from one generation to the next without significantly increasing overall circuit power consumption.\n\nSince around 2005–2007 Dennard scaling appears to have broken down. As of 2016, transistor counts in integrated circuits are still growing, but the resulting improvements in performance are more gradual than the speed-ups resulting from significant frequency increases. The primary reason cited for the breakdown is that at small sizes, current leakage poses greater challenges, and also causes the chip to heat up, which creates a threat of thermal runaway and therefore further increases energy costs.\n\nThe breakdown of Dennard scaling and resulting inability to increase clock frequencies significantly has caused most CPU manufacturers to focus on multicore processors as an alternative way to improve performance. An increased core count benefits many (though by no means all) workloads, but the increase in active switching elements from having multiple cores still results in increased overall power consumption and thus worsens CPU power dissipation issues. The end result is that only some fraction of an integrated circuit can actually be active at any given point in time without violating power constraints. The remaining (inactive) area is referred to as dark silicon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1087895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1087895", "title": "Eating Raoul", "text": "Eating Raoul\n\nEating Raoul is a 1982 black comedy film about a married couple living in Hollywood who resort to killing swingers for their money. It was directed by Paul Bartel and written by Bartel and Richard Blackburn. The writers also commissioned a single-issue comic book based on the film for promotion; it was created by underground comix creator Kim Deitch.\n\nPaul Bland is a wine dealer and his wife, Mary is a nurse. The couple bemoan their low status in unsatisfying jobs, and dream of opening a restaurant. An exceptionally prudish couple, they sleep in separate beds and disapprove of sex, except for \"a little hugging and kissing\". After Paul is fired from his job at a wine shop, the couple are left with barely enough money to get by, and despair that they will ever realize their dream. Their plight is exacerbated by the fact that they live in an apartment building that is a regular site of swinger parties, which they despise.\n\nWhen a drunk swinger wanders into their apartment and tries to rape Mary, Paul hits him on the head with a heavy frying pan, unintentionally killing him. They take his money and put him in the trash incinerator. Later, they kill another swinger in a similar fashion, and realize that they could make money by killing \"rich perverts\". They get advice on infiltrating the swinger community from one of the building's orgy regulars, Doris the Dominatrix. Mary lures men by promising to satisfy their sexual fetishes, and when they try to have sex with her, the otherwise timid Paul becomes alarmed enough to kill them with the frying pan. The Blands are surprisingly successful at their scheme.\n\nAfter finding a flyer for cheap lock-installation service on their car, they decide, for the safety of Paul's wine collection, to have a new lock installed on their apartment. The locksmith is Raoul Mendoza, who uses the service as a scam enabling him to rob the homes of his customers. Using his own key, he sneaks into the Blands' apartment the following night, and stumbles across the corpse of the Blands' latest victim, a Nazi fetishist. Paul catches Raoul, and with each in a compromising position, they strike a deal: Raoul will keep the Blands' secret and dispose of the bodies, which he says he can \"exchange\" for cash. \n\nOne night, Mary's client doesn't show up, so Paul leaves to buy groceries (and a new frying pan, since Mary is \"a bit squeamish about cooking with the one we use to kill people\"), leaving her alone. However the client arrives late, refuses to accept Mary's protest that he missed his appointment, and tries to rape her. Raoul happens to arrive, and strangles the client with his belt. Raoul then offers Mary marijuana and they have sex. Suspicious of Raoul, Paul discovers that he has been selling the bodies to a dog food company, and – unbeknownst to Paul and Mary – selling the victims' expensive cars and keeping the money. \n\nRaoul and Mary sleep together again, and Raoul tries to persuade Mary to run away with him. He tries to run Paul over with a car, who responds by hiring Doris the Dominatrix to use her costuming and role-playing experience help get rid of him. She poses as an immigration agent threatening Raoul with deportation, and a public health worker who gives him pills that are secretly saltpeter, to render him sexually impotent. These schemes don't work.\n\nPaul and Mary are in danger of losing the property they wish to buy for the restaurant to another buyer. They need to increase the scale of the operation and attend a swinger party in search of victims. Paul loses his temper and throws a bug zapper into the hot tub, killing all of the party-goers at once, enabling Paul and Mary to take all the money and sell the party-goers' cars. \n\nA drunken Raoul breaks into the Blands' apartment and threatens to kill Paul for not sharing the money from the sale of the cars, and because he wants Mary for himself. He informs Paul that he and Mary will be getting married, and tells Mary to bring a frying pan so that they can kill him together. Instead, Mary lures Raoul into the kitchen and kills him. Mary and Paul suddenly remember that their real estate agent (who is helping them buy their dream restaurant) is due to arrive soon for dinner. With no meat in the house, and little time before his arrival, they cook Raoul and serve him for dinner, describing the dish as \"Spanish\". The last shot of the film is a smiling Paul and Mary in front of their new restaurant, with the caption, \"Bon Appétit\".\n\n\n\"Eating Raoul\" has generally received positive reviews from professional film critics, and has been nominated on the American Film Institute's \"100 Years... 100 Laughs\" list.\n\nOn April 13, 2004, the long out-of-print film was released on DVD by Columbia TriStar Home Entertainment.\n\nOn September 25, 2012, The Criterion Collection re-released the film on DVD and Blu-ray.\n\nWoronov and Bartel later appeared together as Mary and Paul Bland in a cameo in the film \"Chopping Mall\" (1986). Woronov and Beltran appeared together again in \"Night of the Comet\" (1984), though not as their \"Eating Raoul\" characters; the two also starred together in Bartel's critically acclaimed follow-up feature \"Scenes from the Class Struggle in Beverly Hills\" in 1989.\n\n\"Eating Raoul\", a stage musical adaptation, was presented Off-Broadway in 1992, and also played at the Bridewell Theatre, London, in 2000.\n\nA sequel, entitled \"Bland Ambition\", was planned. The script was written by Paul Bartel and Richard Blackburn. As described by Bartel:\n\n\"Bland Ambition\" was about 10 days from the start of filming when Vestron withdrew its financial backing.\n\n"}
{"id": "3456835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3456835", "title": "Eneas", "text": "Eneas\n\nEneas is a brand of textile design software used to program knitting machines. It can be used for custom pieces of clothing (i.e.: custom wear), or limited runs. \n\n"}
{"id": "48236990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48236990", "title": "Ethnomuseology", "text": "Ethnomuseology\n\nEthnomuseology is the study of museums and museum curation in the context of the culture and cultural traditions of its collections. It is an interdisciplinary field combining museum studies, anthropology, ethnography, and often various fine arts.\n\nAs stated by Moira Simpson, \"Ethnomuseology is the field of scholarship concerning culturally appropriate museum curation and conservation of ethnographic materials using methods that reflect social, cultural, spiritual, or religious aspects of objects.\" A museum subscribing the principles of ethnomuseology will often maintain and present artifacts and collections in the traditional manner of their ethnological origins, combining the museum with the rituals and community of its theme. This can be in addition to conventional Western museum practices, which often focuses on object materiality. As well, ethnomuseology often involves a continued dialog between museum administrators and members of represented cultures in collections. The \"Encyclopedia of Global Archaeology\" considers ethnomuseology to be a \"more holistic\" approach to heritage interpretation.\n\nThe term \"ethnomuseology\" is first seen in Romania and Czechoslovakia in the 1980s, where it described the use of artifacts from rural life to \"[provide] evidence of authentic forms of culture\". A variant, \"etnomuseologia\", was used in 1994 by the Romanian anthropologist Bert G. Ribeiro to describe the work of the Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi in Belem, Brazil. In Belem, curators had been working directly with Amazonian Indians in a continued dialog to create exhibits informed by the very culture they documented.\n\nToday, a number of museums are considered to be followers the ethnomuseological method, including the National Museum of the American Indian at the Smithsonian Institution, the Alutiiq Museum in Kodiak, Alaska, and the Department of Ethnology at the Museum of Macedonia in Skopje, Macedonia. Since 2008, Masaryk University in Brno, Czech Republic has offered a course in ethnomuseology titled \"MUII165 Practice in museology and ethnography\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2845655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2845655", "title": "Fiji's Daily Post", "text": "Fiji's Daily Post\n\nThe Fiji's Daily Post (FDP) was a newspaper in Fiji that was founded in October 1987 by Wame Waqanisanini, Jr, who owned 50 percent of the shares. Taniela Bolea was the original publisher. The majority shares were later owned by the Fijian government. The newspaper suspended publication and has remain closed since 2010.\n\nThe \"FDP\" suffered criticism from its commencement in 1989 to its closure in 2010 that it represented an extreme ethnic Fijian/Itaukei viewpoint in Fiji's national discourse. The evidence for this conclusion is inconclusive. No other newspaper in Fiji has attempted to reach as wide a multicultural cross-section of the people as the FDP through the provision of five separate language publications. The staff of the newspaper was always multi-ethnic in complexion, representative of a wide range of religious and political viewpoints, and of both genders. As far as ideological orientation of the editorial staff is concerned, it is fair to suppose that once the Fiji government took an official role as major share-holder in the newspaper (late 1990s), the \"FDP\" was obliged to toe the government line, but again, this is an oversimplification of the facts. Content analysis of the \"FDP\" in comparison with Fiji's other major dailies, the \"Fiji Times\" and \"Fiji Sun\" does not bear this out.\n\nThe first \"Daily Post\" (Volume 1, No. 1) appeared as a 24-page tabloid with a red masthead, Saturday, 23 September 1989. The cover story, headlined ‘Fiji Now Drugs Transit Point’, was by Karalaini Naciqa. That first edition contained court reports, special reports, an editorial, a feature on the Consumer Council, a children’s page, a page of international news, and a back page devoted to sport.\n\nThe second edition of the \"FDP\" appeared Monday (25 September 1989, Volume 1, No.2) and carried the newspaper’s first ‘Letters to the Editor’. The newspaper listed Kameli Rakoko as ‘Sports Editor’ and Robert Wendt (now deceased) was named as ‘Chief Sub-Editor’. In its first year, the newspaper served as an incubator for new journalists as well as a refuge for disaffected others. Stories and articles appeared by Mark Langan (former managing editor of the \"Samoa Daily News\"), Percy Kean, Filimoni Verebalavu, Kini Nalatu, Hari Gounder, and Kamal Iyer.\n\nIn 1990 the \"FDP\" management was listed as Publisher, Taniela Bolea; Editor, Isimeli Koroi; Western Manager, Hari Gaunder; Accountant, Ashok Kumar; Advertising Manager, Simione Celua; Circulation Manager, John Singh; and Production Manager, Mohammad Ali.\n\nFour years into its operation, the \"FDP\" was, at the end of 1993, publishing editions of 40 to 68 pages varying according to daily demand and advertising. The publisher was still Taniela Bolea, but the Editor was Nemani Delaibatiki (replacing Isimeli Koroi). Ravin Lal had taken over as Advertising Manager (from Simione Celua), the Production manager was Aisea Itautoka (replacing Mohammed Ali), and Circulation was in the hands of Vishwa Nand (in place of John Singh).\n\nBy 1994, Distribution was under Timoci Rabo; Systems Manager was John Mansell; and the Suva office under Elenoa Lagataki. `Sidetracks’ with the late (and great) Robert Keith-Reid was a popular column at that time. Cartoons were occasional with ‘Mafi’s World’ the feature.\n\nBy 1997 Laisa Taga was Managing Editor (replacing Floyd Takeuchi and Nemani Delaibatiki), Greg Pooran had become Acting Advertising Manager and a new position of Marketing Manager was held by Andrew Joseph. Another new position of Financial Controller was held by Anura Bandara.\n\nIn 1999, James Ah Koy, Finance Minister at the time, persuaded the Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei (SVT) government to purchase a majority holding in the newspaper to assist government in public dissemination and explanation of its legislation and policies.\n\nDespite government support, by 2000, the \"FDP\" was losing ground to the newly founded \"Fiji Sun\". A new management group was thereby brought in to run the ailing newspaper. In 2005 the measures undertaken by that management group became the subject of Court action and criminal investigation brought on by the \"FDP\"s new Australian owner-publisher, Alan Hickling. Hickling had successfully bought a portion of both government and small share-holders' shares to acquire the newspaper.\n\nThe government retained its reduced percentage of the \"FDP\" shares, while Alan Hickling increased his percentage shares giving him the controlling interest.\n\nDuring its time, the \"FDP\" was located at several addresses. It began as an office in Three Miles, Nabua (corner of Fletcher Road and Ratu Mara Road), before moving to Valelevu, Nasinu. The administration, editorial and advertising departments then split off and moved to Toorak (Toorak Road), Suva, leaving the press and production at Valelevu. The admin-ed-adv departments then moved downtown to Greig Street, Suva, before moving finally to Ackland Street, Vatuwaqa.\n\nThe \"FDP\" has also been responsible for publishing several ethnic newspapers each with its own editorial staff under the supervision and control of the English-language newspaper. The ethnic Fijian (now known as 'itaukei') language newspaper called \"Volasiga\" began under Samisoni Bolatacigi almost simultaneously with the inception of the \"FDP\". In the mid-1990s, an ethnic Rotuman-language newspaper, \"No'ia Rotuma\", commenced under the editorial direction of Aisea Eiali. At this time, an ethnic Indian Hindi-language newspaper \"Ramnik Joyati\" also commenced under the \"FDP\" flagship. In the early 2000s, two ethnic Chinese-language newspapers were also published by the FDP. These were the \"Chinese Mail\" and the \"Chinese Post\" - each taking a different perspective of China's role in the world.\n\nOn Saturday, 2 December 2006 the \"FDP\" published what was alleged to be the military's timetable for taking control of the Qarase-led SDL government. The newspaper also reported that day that the incumbent Prime Minister, Laisenia Qarase, would be removed from power on 4 December (2006). Both reports were wrong, but warnings and intimidation from unknown persons led to concerns about the safety of staff and the \"FDP\" premises were evacuated at 3.30 pm, on 4 December and remained closed for a period of 24 hours. A further threat prevented the \"FDP\" from publishing on 5 December 2006, but it was the only newspaper to publish on the day after the coup (6 December).\n\nOn 8 December 2006, \"FDP\" General Manager, Mesake Koroi, was detained and questioned by soldiers at Suva's Queen Elizabeth Barracks. Two days later, Koroi left for his village of Mavana on the Lau island of Vanua Balavu where he remained for three months. The newspaper continued to publish under Editor-in-Chief, Dr Robert Wolfgramm, News Editor, Mithleshni Gurdayal, and Legal Officer, Api Mataitoga.\n\nOn 14 December 2006, Wolfgramm and Mataitoga were also taken to the military camp and detained for questioning whereupon Wolfgramm had his passport confiscated and was informed of his deportation to Australia. Wolfgramm's deportation was not followed through and his passport was returned to him through the Office of the Fiji Human Rights Commission on 5 January 2007. The \"FDP\" had been refusing to accept Military interference in its publications in the wake of the military coup which deposed the Qarase-led SDL government on 5 December 2006. In the two years leading up to the coup, numerous editorials were critical of the military leadership's position on the twice-elected government of deposed Prime Minister, Laisenia Qarase.\n\nOn 17 October 2008, the \"FDP\" published a letter-to-the-editor that was deemed to be in contempt of court by the Attorney-General. The letter was similar to that which was later published in the \"Fiji Times\" and for which the publishers and editors of both newspapers were charged and legal proceedings begun. The \"FDP\" case has not been resolved.\nFollowing the imposition of Fiji Public Emergency Regulations on 10 April 2009, censors were allocated to the newsrooms of all of Fiji's media including the \"FDP\". Protests by various media against this measure initially took the forms of either black ink, blank spaces, or blurb. Eventually, the \"FDP\" negotiated a working relationship with this difficulty.\n\nIn February 2010, suffering the combined effects of falling staff morale, shrinking circulation, censorship demands, and weighty unresolved court cases, the \"FDP\" suspended publication and closed.\n\n"}
{"id": "39377753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39377753", "title": "Film-poem", "text": "Film-poem\n\nThe film-poem (also called the poetic avant-garde film, verse-film or verse-documentary) is a label first applied to American avant-garde films released after World War II. During this time, the relationship between film and poetry was debated. James Peterson in \"Dreams of Chaos, Visions of Order\" said, \"In practice, the film poem label was primarily an emblem of the avant-garde's difference from the commercial narrative film.\" Peterson reported that in the 1950s, overviews of avant-garde films \"generally identified two genres: the film poem and the graphic cinema\". By the 1990s, the avant-garde cinema encompassed the term \"film-poem\" in addition to different strains of filmmaking. Film-poems are considered \"personal films\" and are seen \"as autonomous, standing apart from traditions and genres\". They are \"an open, unpredictable experience\" due to eschewing extrinsic expectations based on commercial films. Peterson said, \"The viewer's cycles of anticipation and satisfaction derive primarily from the film's intrinsic structure.\" The film-poems are personal as well as private: \"Many film poems document intimate moments of the filmmaker's life.\"\n\nStark Electric Jesus \n\n"}
{"id": "3456929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3456929", "title": "Folk Stories from Southern Nigeria", "text": "Folk Stories from Southern Nigeria\n\nFolk Stories from Southern Nigeria is a book published in 1910.\n\nThe book contains forty folk stories and fairy tales from Southern Nigeria. The stories were collected by Elphinstone Dayrell, then the District Commissioner of the region. The book has an introduction by Andrew Lang, famous for his series of fairy books.\n\n"}
{"id": "38776060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38776060", "title": "Global citizens movement", "text": "Global citizens movement\n\nIn most discussions, the global citizens movement is a socio-political process rather than a political organization or party structure. The term is often used synonymously with the anti-globalization movement or the global justice movement.\n\n\"Global citizens movement\" has been used by activists to refer to a number of organized and overlapping citizens groups who seek to influence public policy often with the hope of establishing global solidarity on an issue. Such efforts include advocacy on ecological sustainability, corporate responsibility, social justice, and similar progressive issues.\n\nIn theoretical discussions of social movements, global citizens movement refers to a complex and unprecedented phenomena made possible by the unique subjective and objective conditions of the planetary phase of civilization. The term is used to distinguish the latent potential for a profound shift in values among an aware and engaged citizenry from existing transnational citizens movements which tend to focus on specific issues (such as the anti-war movement or the labor movement).\n\nThe concept of global citizenship first emerged among the Greek Cynics in the 4th Century BCE, who coined the term “cosmopolitan” – meaning \"citizen of the world\". The Stoics later elaborated on the concept. The contemporary concept of cosmopolitanism, which proposes that all individuals belong to a single moral community, has gained a new salience as scholars examine the ethical requirements of the planetary phase of civilization.\n\nThe idea that today’s objective and subjective conditions have increased the latency for an emergent global civic identity has been argued by the authors of the Global Scenario Group’s final report \"Great Transition: the Promise and Lure of the Times Ahead\". Similar arguments for the existence of a latent pool of tens of millions of people ready to identify around new values of earth consciousness have been put forth by such authors as Paul Raskin, Paul H. Ray, and David Korten. Organizations, such as Oxfam International believe that a global citizens movement rooted in social and economic justice is emerging and is necessary for ending global poverty.\n\nIn the last chapter of his book \"Red Sky at Morning\", Gus Speth describes the potential for a new type of social movement composed of \"we the people, as citizens\" rooted in the principles of the Earth Charter to lead the transition in consciousness and values necessary for the emergence of a new planetary civilization.\n\nOrion Kriegman, author of \"Dawn of the Cosmopolitan: The Hope of a Global Citizens Movement\", states, “Transnational corporations, governments, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) remain powerful global actors, but all of these would be deeply influenced by a coherent, worldwide association of millions of people who call for priority to be placed on new values of quality of life, human solidarity, and environmental sustainability.”\n\nKriegman distinguishes this \"coherent, worldwide association of millions\" from the existing fragmented social movements active in the World Social Forum. These movements tend to be issue-specific – focused on labor, environment, human rights, feminist issues, indigenous struggles, poverty, AIDS, and numerous other interrelated but \"siloed\" efforts. Coherence among these movements would require a reframing of their work under the rubric of the struggle for a socially just and ecologically sustainable global society and the establishment of an institutional structure to defend the rights of humanity, future generations, and the biosphere.\n\nThe major critique of the notion of a global citizens movement centers on the potential for the emergence of solidarity on issues at the global level. Nationalism, racism, and the dominance of the Westphalian state system are considered antithetical to the adoption of a global civic identity. However, some scholars point out that the historical emergence of nationalism must have felt just as improbable in a time of warring city-states, and yet in retrospect it appears inevitable.\n\nA more radical critique stems from the arguments put forth by Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri in their book \"Multitude\" and enshrines Michel Foucault's notion of a “plurality of resistance” as the only legitimate path forward. This argument asserts that an organized movement among the vast multitude is both undesirable and impossible. Instead of leadership and organizational structures, Hardt and Negri put faith in the emergence of spontaneous coherence due to increasing self-organized networks among various autonomous resistance movements. They critique the notion that there could be legitimate leaders, democratically chosen through a formal network of grassroots structures, acting on behalf of a big-tent pluralistic association of global citizens to directly confront the entrenched power of transnational corporations and state governments. However, it remains unclear how a network of autonomous movements would differ in practice from the vision of an authentic global citizens movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22487771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22487771", "title": "Gutian language", "text": "Gutian language\n\nGutian (; also Qutian) is an extinct unclassified language that was spoken by the Gutian people, who briefly ruled over Sumer as the Gutian dynasty in the 22nd century BCE (middle chronology). The Gutians lived in the territory between the Zagros Mountains and the Tigris. Nothing is known about the language except its existence and a list of names of Gutian rulers in the Sumerian King List.\n\nGutian is included in a list of languages spoken in the region found in the \"Sag\" B tablet, an educational text from the Middle Babylonian period possibly originating from the city of Emar. This text also lists Akkadian, Amorite, Sutean, \"Subarean\" (Hurrian) and Elamite. There is also a mention of \"an interpreter for the Gutean language\" in a tablet from Adab.\n\nThe Gutian king names from the Sumerian list are:\n\n\nThorkild Jacobsen suggested that the recurring ending \"-(e)š\" may have had a grammatical function in Gutian, perhaps as a case marker.\n\nIn a posthumously-published article, W. B. Henning suggested that the different endings of the king names resembled case endings in the Tocharian languages, a branch of Indo-European known from texts found in the Tarim Basin (in the northwest of modern China) dating from the 6th to 8th centuries CE. Henning also compared the name Guti with \"Kuči\", the native name of the Tocharian city of Kucha, and with the name of the Yuezhi, pastoral nomads described in Chinese records as living to the east of the Tarim in the 2nd century BCE, although the latter name is usually reconstructed with a *ŋʷ- initial in Old Chinese. He also compared \"Tukriš\", the name of neighbours of the Guti, with the name \"twγry\" found in Old Turkish manuscripts from the early 9th century CE and thought to refer to the Tocharians. Gamkrelidze and Ivanov explored Henning's suggestion as possible support for their proposal of an Indo-European Urheimat in the Near East. However, most scholars reject the attempt to compare languages separated by more than two millennia.\n"}
{"id": "400853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400853", "title": "Hero of the Soviet Union", "text": "Hero of the Soviet Union\n\nThe title Hero of the Soviet Union () was the highest distinction in the Soviet Union, awarded personally or collectively for heroic feats in service to the Soviet state and society.\n\nThe award was established on April 16, 1934, by the Central Executive Committee of the Soviet Union. The first recipients of the title originally received only the Order of Lenin, the highest Soviet award, along with a certificate (грамота, \"gramota\") describing the heroic deed from the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. Because the Order of Lenin could be awarded for deeds not qualifying for the title of hero, and to distinguish heroes from other Order of Lenin holders, the Gold Star medal was introduced on August 1, 1939. Earlier heroes were retroactively eligible for these items.\n\nA hero could be awarded the title again for a subsequent heroic feat with an additional Gold Star medal and certificate. An additional Order of Lenin was not given until 1973. The practice of awarding the title multiple times was abolished by the Supreme Soviet of the USSR in 1988 during perestroika.\n\nForty-four foreign citizens were awarded the title.\n\nThe title was also given posthumously, though often without the actual Gold Star medal given.\n\nThe title could be revoked only by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet.\n\nIndividuals who received the award were entitled to special privileges. These include:\n\n\nIn total, during the existence of the USSR, the title of Hero of the Soviet Union was awarded to 12,777 people (without taking into account 72 ruled titles for defamatory acts and 13 canceled Decrees as unreasonable), including twice – 154 (9 posthumously), three times – 3 and four – 2. Ninety-five women were awarded the title. Among the Heroes of the Soviet Union, 44 people are citizens of foreign states. The great majority of them received it during World War II (11,635 Heroes of the Soviet Union, 101 twice Heroes, three thrice Heroes, and two four-time Heroes). Eighty-five people (28 of them were awarded this high rank posthumously) were awarded the title for actions related to the Soviet-Afghan War, which lasted from 1979 until 1989.\n\nThe first recipients of the award were the pilots Anatoly Liapidevsky (certificate number one), Sigizmund Levanevsky, Vasily Molokov, Mavriky Slepnyov, Nikolai Kamanin, Ivan Doronin, and Mikhail Vodopianov, who participated in the successful aerial search and rescue of the crew of the steamship \"Cheliuskin\", which sank in Arctic waters, crushed by ice fields, on February 13, 1934. Valentina Grizodubova, a female pilot, was the first woman to become a Hero of the Soviet Union (November 2, 1938) for her international women's record for a straight-line distance flight. Zoya Kosmodemyanskaya, a Soviet partisan, was the first woman to become a Hero of the Soviet Union during World War II (February 16, 1942), posthumously.\n\nIn addition, 101 people received the award twice. A second Hero title, either Hero of the Soviet Union or Hero of Socialist Labour entitled the recipient to have a bronze bust of his or her likeness with a commemorative inscription erected in his or her hometown.\n\nTwo famous Soviet fighter pilots, Aleksandr Pokryshkin and Ivan Kozhedub were three times Heroes of the Soviet Union. A third award entitled the recipient to have his/her bronze bust erected on a columnar pedestal in Moscow, near the Palace of the Soviets, but the Palace was never built.\n\nAfter his release from serving a 20-year sentence in a Mexican prison for the assassination of Leon Trotsky, Ramon Mercader moved to the Soviet Union in 1961 and was awarded the Hero of the Soviet Union medal from KGB head Alexander Shelepin.\n\nThe only individuals to receive the title four times were Marshal Georgy Zhukov and Leonid Brezhnev. The original statute of the Hero of the Soviet Union, however, did not provide for a fourth title; its provisions allowed for a maximum of three awards regardless of later deeds. Both Zhukov and Brezhnev received their fourth titles under controversial circumstances contrary to the statute, which remained largely unchanged until the award was abolished in 1991. Zhukov was awarded a fourth time \"for his large accomplishments\" on the occasion of his 60th birthday on December 1, 1956. There is some speculation that Zhukov's fourth Hero medal was for his participation in the arrest of Beria in 1953, but this was not entered in the records. Brezhnev's four awards further eroded the prestige of the award because they were all birthday gifts, on the occasions of his 60th, 70th, 72nd and 75th birthdays. Such practices halted in 1988 due to a decision of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, which formally ended it.\n\nBy the 1970s, the award had been somewhat devalued. Important political and military persons had been awarded it on the occasions of their anniversaries rather than for any immediate heroic activity.\n\nAll Soviet cosmonauts, starting from Yuri Gagarin, as well as foreign citizens who participated in the Soviet space program as cosmonauts, received Hero award for each flight (but no more than twice).\n\nApart from individuals, the title was also awarded to twelve cities (Hero City) as well as the fortress of Brest (Hero-Fortress) for collective heroism during the War.\n\nThe last recipient of the title \"Hero of the Soviet Union\" was a Soviet diver, Captain of the 3rd rank Leonid Mikhailovich Solodkov on December 24, 1991 for his leadership and participation in a series of unprecedented extreme depth diving experiments. Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, this title was succeeded in Russia by the title \"Hero of the Russian Federation\", in Ukraine by \"Hero of Ukraine\" and in Belarus by \"Hero of Belarus\". Azerbaijan's successor order is that of National Hero of Azerbaijan and Armenia's own hero medal is that of National Hero of Armenia, both modeled on the Soviet one.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1679958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1679958", "title": "History's Mysteries", "text": "History's Mysteries\n\nHistory's Mysteries is an American documentary television series that aired on the History Channel.\n\nThe 154 episodes of the series were produced from 1998-2006. Each season consisted of 12 to 14 one-hour episodes that focused on historical events or subjects considered to be mysterious by the general public. Episodes typically begin with Kent giving a broad overview of the subject followed by what is accepted as a common explanation. During the main segments, experts on both sides of the issue present their evidence and opinions. Before commercial breaks, Kent would give the audience bits of trivia relating to the subject; episodes also included a timeline which would give important events occurring around the time of the events discussed in the show.\n\nSubjects covered on the show ranged from the beginning of human history to modern subjects such as Carlos the Jackal, The Amityville Horror, and Area 51, as well as political conspiracies and conspiracy theories such as MK ULTRA and the JFK Assassination. Common aspects of history covered on the show include religion, crime, the supernatural, archaeology, mythology, and folklore.\n\nSome episodes of the show were repackaged as part of a series called \"Incredible But True?\", which aired episodes of \"History's Mysteries\" as well as other shows (including \"In Search of History\" and \"UFO Files\", also narrated by Ackroyd). The show's last episodes were an anthology of clips from previous episodes (such as \"Mysteries of the High Seas\").\n\nAlthough new episodes are no longer being produced, re-runs of \"History's Mysteries\" are regularly shown on the History Channel. Additionally, they are available on DVD.\n\n\"Notes: (\"alternate name\"); some of these names are exactly the same as Decoding the Past episodes.\"\n\nEpisode # - Original Air Date - Title\n\n\n\nEpisode # - Original Air Date - Title\n\n\n\nEpisode # - Original Air Date - Title\n\nEpisode # - Original Air Date - Title\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57754062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57754062", "title": "Hoesik", "text": "Hoesik\n\nThe origin of the Hoesik was based on the word \"Hoe-min\" of the Joseon Dynasty. It is said that the word \"Hoe-min\" was used in order to make the kings and officials of Joseon become 'Let's be one'. It seems that the most likely theory has changed from the word \"Hoe-min\" to \"Hoesik\". In this way, Hoesik is not a place for the individual, as it can be interpreted as an interpretation that the king and his subjects should live together and eat together.\n\nUnder the influence of Korean traditional military cultures, those lower than the superior must drink. Binge drinking was mainly encouraged by the 'bomb shot' or 'poktanju,' including beer+spirits and soju+spirits. In the 1990s, however, the campaign for sound drinking started, and the culture to avoid social gatherings spread due to the IMF economic crisis.\n\nCompanies and organizations are trying to improve their Hoesik culture as a reaction to the prevailing social atmosphere surrounding the issues of 'bombshot', drinking glasses, and sexual harassment. Instead of focusing on just drinking and dancing, other forms of entertainment and cultural gatherings, such as watching movies and bowling are becoming increasingly common.\n\nKim Young-ran Act(Korean: 김영란법), also known as the anti-graft law, refers to the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act. After this law was enacted , various Hoesik practices and after work entertainment culture have significantly decreased, while the percent of individual leisure activities has increased.\n\nIn 2017, the Me Too (disambiguation) movement was widespread in Korea. And the Me too Movement is changing the Hoesik inside Korean companies. The senior employees that were leading the Hoesik had fewer Hoesik as they left early. Some companies and public organizations are trying to reduce or eliminate events that their subordinates are uncomfortable with due to the Me too Movement movement. In other words, the heosik that were forced on subordinates is decreasing.\n\nHwoesik is a place where members of an organization can relax their tension and stress, increase their closeness to each other, and resolve conflicts. Enhance understanding among team members and help them become closer to each other. By reducing stress on members and eliminating inter-person and interdepartmental conflicts, it is possible to create harmony among members and increase efficiency of production.\n\nOne cannot get away from alcohol at a Hwoesik. Heavy drinking is a cause of embarrassment to people that are unable to drink well. This is because the boss or other office superiors are present and can witness one's drunken behavior. Because of the difficulty of refusing, people are forced to drink excessively. The next day's hangover can make them feel very tired and they can not go to work or spend the day in a bad mood.\n\nMany company employees are forced to attend, although their attendance is often passive and uncomfortable. Supervisors may lead the conversation while subordinates follow the conversation.\n\nMost conversations at a hwoesik may be with colleagues and supervisors and focus on company's shortcomings and company gossip. Negative talk and gossip can extend outside the hwoesik, leading to a breakdown of relationships and the internal atmosphere. \n\nMost of them drink only food and drink and refuse to express their inner feelings.\n\nIntoxication as a cause of a hwoesik can lead to a loss of inhibitions and judgement. Cases of sexual harassment and drunk driving have been associated with hwoesik events.\n\nChinese people enjoy dining at restaurants on holidays with family or friends. Such dining culture serves to exchange feelings each other and make conversation in positive ways. Most of the restaurants that Chinese people visit are popular restaurants, which are relatively cheap. Popularity of the restaurant is the first condition that identifying the restaurant. Some special restaurants are less expensive, but they are not included in the category of popular restaurants because the menu is not diverse. Popular restaurants refer to Chinese traditional dishes that are popular and common to the public, such as cold, fried, soup and stock. It is also the most common restaurant on Chinese streets. Some popular restaurants will reveal Shanghai cuisine and Guangdong cuisine on their signboards to show which food system they serve. Therefore, an area that does not identify the region's cuisine on the sign serves dishes that are to the taste of the local people.\n\nHalf of the Japanese drinks alcohol, but the number keeps increasing. Japanese men enjoy drinking and it is common for a small number of people to drink at a pub without going home directly after work. Japanese say, \" Silence is gold \" as their motto, but when confronted with something that is worrying or worrying, they still drink away their worries. It's polite to toast together at the beginning and drink whatever you want next. In Japan, Geonbae means holding glasses and drinking only the amount you want. In Japan, when a woman drinks well at a dinner party, she gets praised. Japanese people usually like to drink in the evening to relieve stress after a day's work. In addition, Japanese people often change places where they drink and do not drink in the same places to feel different tastes at their regular dining parties.\n\nKoreans enjoy hwoesik with Makgeolli(raw rice wine) and Jeon on a rainy day. There is a hypothesis that this is because the sound of the rain is similar to the sound of making the Jeon. And there is a hypothesis that on rainy days, your body's blood sugar level drops, helping to increase your blood sugar level. On rainy days, sales of flour and Makgeolli(raw rice wine) were also found to have risen sharply in large discount stores. A comparison of the rainy and sunny sales of Makgeolli(raw rice wine) and flour in Korean marts shows that sales of flour and MakgeollI rose 36.5 percent and 17.9 percent, respectively. This shows that Koreans eat a lot of Makgeolli and Jeon on rainy days.\n\nKoreans eat a lot of samgyeopsal in yellow dust. It was really popular food to Korean miners. Korean miners ate samgyeopsal after work. This is because the miners have believed that after working in lots of dust, samgyeopsal washed the dust with their fat. And Koreans who enjoy Hwoesik usually drinks soju with samgyeopsal. Because of its good taste and cheap price. For these reasons, eating with samgyeopsal and soju is popular on yellow dust days. However, there is no scientific evidence that samgyeopsal is good for yellow dust.\n\nThey drink at hwoesik in Korea. There is no such thing as a non-drink hwoesik.\n\nSince most people with liver cancer drink alcohol, alcohol accounts for a significant portion of liver cancer. In Korea, almost everyone drinks alcohol unlike other countries, but in foreign countries, there is a clear distinction between those who drink and those who do not. Among American liver cancer cases, alcohol accounted for 30 to 40 percent.\n\nAlcohol and health, especially brain health, are closely related. Therefore, many health damage occurs and national loss occurs. Direct brain damage caused by alcohol is Alzheimer's, Bernice's syndrome, alcoholic peripheral neuropathy, alcoholic cerebellum contraction, and cerebral bridge (part of the left and right brain) contraction.\n\nAlcohol is quickly absorbed from the stomach and 80 percent is absorbed before going to the intestines. High concentrations of alcohol can also damage the stomach's mucous membrane. When alcohol goes straight Stomach, it reduces the secretion of gastric juices. It can also cause interference to the mucous membrane of the stomach.\n\nDrinking culture of Korea\n"}
{"id": "484831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484831", "title": "Israel Prize", "text": "Israel Prize\n\nThe Israel Prize (; \"Peras Yisrael\") is an award handed out by the State of Israel and is generally regarded as the state's highest cultural honor. It is presented annually, on Israeli Independence Day, in a state ceremony in Jerusalem, in the presence of the President, the Prime Minister, the Speaker of the Knesset (Israel's legislature), and the Supreme Court President. The prize was established in 1953 at the initiative of the Minister of Education Ben-Zion Dinor, who himself went on to win the prize in 1958 and 1973.\n\nThe prize is awarded in the following four areas, with the precise subfields changing from year to year in a cycle of 4 to 7 years, except for the last area, which is awarded annually:\n\nThe recipients of the prize are Israeli citizens or organizations who have displayed excellence in their field(s), or have contributed strongly to Israeli culture. The winners are selected by committees of judges, who pass on their recommendations to the Minister of Education. Prize winners are elected by ad-hoc committees, appointed by the minister of education for each category each year. Decisions of the committee must be unanimous. The prize money was NIS 75,000 as of 2008.\n\nAs of 2009, the prize has been awarded 633 times. Prominent winners include individuals such as Shmuel Yosef Agnon, Martin Buber, Abba Eban, A. B. Yehoshua, Israel Aumann, Golda Meir, Amos Oz, Ephraim Kishon, Naomi Shemer, David Benvenisti, Leah Goldberg (posthumously) and Teddy Kollek, and organizations such as Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, Jewish Agency, Yad Vashem and Jewish National Fund. Though the prize is generally awarded to Israeli citizens only, in exceptional cases it can be awarded to non-Israelis who have held Israeli residency for many years. Zubin Mehta received a special award of the Israel Prize in 1991. Mehta is originally from India, and is music director of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nThe decision to award the prize to specific individuals has sometimes led to impassioned political debate. In 1993, the strong reaction of then Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin against the nomination of Yeshayahu Leibowitz led Leibowitz to decline the prize. In 2004, Education and Culture Minister Limor Livnat, twice sent the decision to award the prize to sculptor Yigal Tumarkin back to the prize committee. Cases in which the decision was brought before the Supreme Court of Israel included the prizes given to publicist Shmuel Shnitzer, politician Shulamit Aloni, professor Zeev Sternhell and Maccabi Tel Aviv basketball club chairman Shimon Mizrahi.\n\nIn February 2015, Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu vetoed the appointment of two members of the selection panel for the Israel Prize in Literature after they had already started their work, prompting the other three members, including Ziva Ben-Porat, to resign in protest. Netanyahu explained that the two panel members were politically unsuitable and that \"[t]oo often, it seemed that the extreme panel members were bestowing the prizes on their friends\". One of the candidates for the prize, Yigal Schwartz of the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev withdrew his nomination and called on other candidates to do the same, writing that the situation was an \"unprecedented scandal\", and that the action was a \"continuation of Prime Minister Netanyahu’s deliberate policy of undermining Israel’s elites to gain votes from other groups.\" Over the next few days, members of the committees for the literary research and film prizes also resigned, leaving only two members from the original 13 of the three committees, and many other candidates for the prizes withdrew their nominations. David Grossman withdrew his candidature with the explanation that \"Netanyahu's move is a cynical and destructive ploy that violates the freedom of spirit, thought and creativity of Israel, and I refuse to cooperate with it\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45356779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45356779", "title": "Jonty Hurwitz", "text": "Jonty Hurwitz\n\nJonty Hurwitz (born 2 September 1969 in Johannesburg) is an artist, engineer and entrepreneur. Hurwitz creates scientifically inspired artworks and anamorphic sculptures. He is recognised for the smallest human form ever created using nano technology.\n\nJonty Hurwitz was born in Johannesburg, South Africa, to Selwin, a hotelier and entrepreneur and Marcia Berger, a drama lecturer and teacher. Jonty spent his early life living in small hotels in rural towns in South Africa while his father built up his business.\n\nJonty studied Electrical Engineering at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg from 1989 to 1993. His major was Signal Processing. He then joined the University of Cape Town Remote Sensing Group as a full-time researcher under Professor Michael Inggs, publishing a paper on radar pattern recognition.\n\nFollowing his research post, Hurwitz traveled for a long period of time in India studying Yoga and wood carving.\n\nIn a 2015, documentary by CNN International on Hurwitz's artwork, BBC Radio 2 art critic Estelle Lovatt commented on Hurwitz's work: \"If Leonardo Da Vinci were alive today, he would have been doing what Jonty is doing. He would have been using algorithms. No one else works like him today. His art is the mix between the emotional and the intelligent, and that's what gives it that spark.\" Hurwitz's work focuses on the aesthetics of art in the context of human perception. His early body of sculpture was discovered by Estelle Lovatt during 2011 in an article for \"Art of England Magazine\": \"Thinning the divide gap between art and science, Hurwitz is cognisant of the two being holistically co-joined in the same way as we are naturally, comfortably split between our spiritual and operational self\".\n\nHurwitz began producing sculptures in 2008. In 2009, his first sculpture 'Yoda and the Anamorph' won the People’s Choice Bentliff Prize of the Maidstone Museum and Art Gallery. Later in 2009 he won the Noble Sculpture Prize and was commissioned to install his first large scale work (a nude study of his father called 'Dietro di me') in the Italian village Colletta di Castelbianco. In 2010, he was selected as a finalist for the 4th International Arte Laguna Prize in Venice, Italy.\n\nIn January 2013, Hurwitz's anamorphic work was described by the art blogger Christopher Jobson. In a short documentary about Hurwitz's \"Generation Pi\" philosophy by \"Vera Productions\" it is estimated that the sculpture received 20 million views online in the space of a few weeks. In early 2013 Hurwitz was introduced to the Savoy Hotel by London art agent Sally Vaughan. Hurwitz was commissioned to be Artist in Residence at the hotel and produce a sculpture of the hotel’s historically iconic Mascot \"Kaspar the Cat\". Hurwitz lived for several months in the hotel producing the sculpture.\n\nIn the same year, Hurwitz was also nominated for the Threadneedle Prize and exhibited a collection at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London. By late 2013, in a special edition of Art of England on portraiture, Hurwitz was cited as the #1 portrait artist in the UK. In January 2014 Hurwitz was voted #46 in the top 100 artists of 2013 by the American art site, Empty Kingdom. In the same month, Hurwitz's anamorphic work was blogged as \"The best of 2013\" by the American Art and Culture magazine, Juxtapoz. In 2013 Hurwitz's work was also curated by \"Science Gallery International\" for a touring group show entitled ‘Illusion’ curated by Trinity College Dublin. The show presents a collection of installation artworks from around the world that affect human perception. The exhibition led to a 2014/2015 tour in the USA where it attracted over 170,000 visitors. The show then moved on to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in 2015 and Leipzig, Germany in 2016.\n\nIn late 2014, he released a series of “nano sculptures” under the title of ″Trust″. This series of works captured the attentions of both the scientific and art community, being cited by among others, Nature, Scientific American, Popular Science and Phys.org. In 2015, Hurwitz was elected a member of the Royal British Society of Sculptors. In 2016 the Royal Photographic Society selected a Scanning Electron Microscope photograph by Hurwitz and Stefan Diller as one of the top 100 'Royal Society International Images for Science'.\n\nHurwitz has produced a body of work using both oblique (perspective) and catoptric (mirror) anamorphosis. In an interview with Christopher Jobson, Hurwitz explains his anamorphic inspiration as follows: “I have always been torn between art and physics. In a moment of self-doubt in 2008, I wandered into the National Portrait Gallery and stumbled across a strange anamorphic piece by William Scrots, a portrait of Edward VI from 1546. Followed shortly down the aisle by The Ambassadors by Hans Holbein from 1533. My life changed forever. I rushed home and within hours was devouring the works of M. C. Escher, Da Vinci and many more. In a breath I had found “brothers” in a smallish group of artists spanning 500 years with exactly the same dilemma as me. Within two months I was deep in production of my first work. My art rests on the shoulders of giants, and I am grateful to them.” Anamorphosis as a form of art has a long history. A page in Leonardo Da Vinci’s note book (folio 35 verso a of the Codex Atlanticus) shows two strangely elongated sketches of a child's head and an eye. These distorted and hesitant drawings, the first known anamorphoses, from around 1485”. In the mid-18th Century anamorphosis was also used by Jacobite artists to secretly depict images of Bonnie Prince Charlie in the wake of brutal English censorship.\n\nHurwitz is a pioneer in creating catoptric sculpture. Until the creation of his first work \"Rejuvenation\", anamorphic sculptures have not been known to have existed in art history. In his online talks, Hurwitz explains that this is a function of processing power and that whilst painting is possible in a mirror, three dimensional anamorphosis could only have come into being with the advent of powerful computers. Each of his sculptures involves billions of calculations using an algorithm derived from the mathematical constant π. Hurwitz asserts that his art is “contemporary to the millisecond”. Kinetic Art curator and director of the London \"Kinetica Museum\", Dianne Harris, described Hurwitz's art as follows \"The works of polymath Jonty Hurwitz are contemporary trompe l'oeil, at first glance appearing abstract, but in mirrored reflections, representational\".\n\nIn 2014, Hurwitz pioneered a new sculptural technique in the field of Nanoart using multiphoton lithography and photogrammetry to create the world’s smallest human portraits of his first love. The works of art were inspired by the nineteenth century marble sculpture of Cupid and Psyche by Antonio Canova, part of the permanent collection of the Louvre Museum, Paris. Hurwitz’s works are so tiny that they are invisible to the human eye, able to be placed on the forehead of an ant. Smaller details of the works are at approximately the 300 nanometer scale, similar to the wavelengths of visible light and are therefore near impossible by the laws of physics to see in the visible spectrum. The only way to observe these works is through a non-optical method of magnification like a scanning electron microscope. To create these works Hurwitz collaborated with a team of over 20 people, including Stephan Hengsbach of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology and Yehiam Prior of the Weizmann Institute of Science, an art project centred in the world of academic physics. In February 2015, Hurwitz's sculpture \"Trust\" was awarded the world record for the \"Smallest sculpture of a human\" by the Guinness Book of Records.\n\nIn an interview with Beautiful/Decay Hurwitz explains the philosophy behind the works: “As technology starts to evolve faster than our human perception is able to handle, the line between science and myth becomes blurred. We live in an era where the impossible has finally come to pass. In our own little way we have become demigods of creation in our physical world…. The nano works that I present to you here represent more that just a feat of science though. They represent the moment in history that we ourselves are able to create a full human form at the same scale as the sperm that creates us in order to facilitate the creation.” In an online interview with Slashdot, Hurwitz himself asks the question “How can something you can't see be art?” By basing his work on the myth of Cupid and Psyche he also suggests that our belief in modern science isn't that different from the faith the ancient greeks had in the demigods. The final irony was that the sculptures were destroyed by a touch one week before the images were published on the Internet.\n\nIn the mid-90s, Hurwitz arrived in London following his travels in India and got his first job researching financial data visualization for Gilbert de Botton, Chairman and Founder of Global Asset Management (GAM). During this period, he was exposed to de Botton’s open architecture model of asset management. It was Jonty’s close relationship with de Botton, also a major British art collector, that exposed him to the art world. The two maintained a close friendship until de Botton's death in 2000.\n\nHurwitz left Global Asset Management after two years forming his own company, \"Delve\", to develop the R&D in data visualisation and reporting. Jonty’s main client became de Botton himself. In 1996, GAM launched its financial reporting technology built by Hurwitz, which attracted attention in the financial media, winning several awards. Hurwitz’s newly formed graphics and software team evolved over several years publishing several visualization projects (non-exhaustive list):\n\n\nOver the years from 2000 to 2005, Hurwitz signed up a large base of asset managers for his reporting and analysis technology. In 2005, Hurwitz’s company \"Delve\" was acquired by Alternative Investment Market listed company Statpro Group PLC (SOG). Hurwitz joined Statpro as Creative Director where he designed the first Cloud Computing analytics and risk platform for asset data. In 2008, Statpro launched its flagship product \"Statpro Revolution\" which was the result of this R&D. By 2014, eight out of the top ten largest asset managers in the world were Statpro Clients.\n\nHurwitz was co-founding Chief Technology Officer of Wonga.com in 2007 where he designed and built the first real-time online consumer loan system in the world. During this period, Wonga’s technology won several awards (listed below). By 2011, Wonga had begun to attract criticism and Hurwitz, as the inventor of the technology, found himself with not enough influence to guide the now large company's use of his designs. After several attempts at changing Wonga's strategy, he resigned from his operational role in November 2011, quietly releasing his sculpture entitled \"Co-Founder\".\n\nHurwitz's technology is credited with several innovations in the financial services industry:\n\nHurwitz continues to commit much of his time to fintech startups while at the same time building up his body of artwork. In late 2011 Hurwitz backed Damian Kimmelman, to build a next-generation data provider Duedil. Duedil has since been dubbed \"The Bloomberg of private companies\" and has emerged as one of the key data providers in Europe and the UK. In 2011, Hurwitz seed funded the financial technology startup \"behalf.com\". In 2012, Hurwitz backed the UK startup bank for young people: \"Meet Osper\".\n\n\n\nHurwitz is founder of the Separated Child Foundation which supports unaccompanied refugee children arriving on UK shores.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2338202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2338202", "title": "Key Stage 4", "text": "Key Stage 4\n\nKey Stage 4 is the legal term for the two years of school education which incorporate GCSEs, and other examinations, in maintained schools in England normally known as Year 10 and Year 11, when pupils are aged between 14 and 16. (In some schools, KS4 work is started in Year 9.) \n\nThe term is defined in the Education Act 2002 as \"the period beginning at the same time as the school year in which the majority of pupils in his class attain the age of fifteen and ending at the same time as the school year in which the majority of pupils in his class cease to be of compulsory school age\". Since that Act, the ending of compulsory education in England has been extended beyond the age of sixteen, but compulsory education beyond the age of 16 is not classed as part of Key Stage 4.\n\nThe term is used to define the group of pupils who must follow the relevant programmes of study from the National Curriculum. All pupils in this Key Stage must follow a programme of education in the following areas:\n\nIn addition, there is a statutory duty on schools to provide an optional programme of education for pupils in this Key Stage in each of the following areas:\n\nAt the end of this stage, pupils aged 16 - in Year 11 - are normally entered for a range of external examinations. Most frequently, these are GCSE (General Certificate of Secondary Education) examinations, although a range of other qualifications is growing in popularity, including NVQ National Vocational Qualifications. These examinations are set by one of the examination boards. Results of examinations at this age are published as part of the Department for Children, Schools and Families' Performance Tables.\n\nThe term is defined in The Education (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 as \"the period beginning at the same time as the next school year after the end of key stage 3 and ending at the same time as he ceases to be of compulsory school age\". Notably, the earlier Key Stages are defined as lasting for ten years in total from the start of compulsory education.\n\nThe term is used to define the group of pupils who must follow the relevant programmes of study from the National Curriculum. All pupils in this Key Stage must follow a programme of education in the nine areas of learning in the curriculum, some of which include specific subject strands:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "993776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993776", "title": "Laowai", "text": "Laowai\n\nLaowai is the Mandarin pronunciation/transliteration of (pinyin: \"lǎowài\",  \"constantly foreign or old foreign\"), an informal term or slang for \"foreigner\" and/or non-Chinese national, usually neutral but possibly impolite or loose in some circumstances. Formal and polite Chinese terms for foreigner include \"wàiguórén\" (), \"wàibīn\" (), \"guójì yǒurén\" ) and \"wàiguó pengyou\" (). The term is typically used to refer to Europeans ('whites', 'Caucasians') especially, and to a lesser extent, Africans ('black'), Native Americans, Latin Americans and Middle Easterners. \"Laowai\" usually does not refer to ethnic Han of non-Chinese nationality or other East Asian ethnicities. \n\nThe use of the word began in the 1980s, as an abbreviation of the term (foreigner) into (foreign or outside) plus the character (old). It can have positive associations, indicating age or experience—such as \"lǎopéngyou\" ()—or respect, as in the familiar use of \"lǎo\" to denote the senior and respected members of families or to address teachers (, \"lǎoshī\"). It may also be used in combination with part of a person's name (usually the family name) to refer to that person in a familiar and respectful way (for example a person with the surname 周, or Zhōu, could be referred to as 老周, literally \"Old Zhōu\"). This usage is reserved exclusively for adults, but implies familiarity rather than seniority, and is often attached to specific individuals as a nickname rather than being freely used.\n\nHowever, in certain contexts, it can also carry negative connotations of being old or aged looking (), boring old —as in \"lǎo gǔdǒng\" ()—or of years of experience and contempt—as in \"lǎo dōngxi\" (, \"old thing\"). It may be used in the arts or in jokes with the sense of \"always\" or \"very\": a famous comedy role was named the \"Lǎoniān\" (, \"Constantly Listless\"). And Tom Hardy was affectionately known in mainland China as \"Lǎoshī\" (  ) because of his perpetually shiny hair, also because of his role \"Eames\" in \"Inception\" (2010) sounds like . It can also be used as an empty prefix, particularly with animals such as tigers (), mice (), and eagles ().\n\nThe term has come to be used for specific countries as well, with \"lǎo-\" functioning as a colloquial equivalent for \"-guórén\": \"lǎoměi\" (), \"lǎomo\" (); even \"lǎozhōng\" () to refer to Chinese () themselves.\n\nAs with Spanish \"gringo\", laowai is not considered a necessarily offensive term by those who choose to use it, but may become so from context (tone, manner, situation, etc.). Among the Chinese, the term is informal and may be used in a neutral, genial, or even good-humored way;. Varyingly, it is ironically embraced, begrudgingly accepted, openly resented, or not minded at all among the Western expatriate community.\n\nThe official Chinese press has expressed concern about inappropriate use of laowai and avoids it in all formal reporting. Mark Roswell, known under the stage name Dashan, as one of the most famous Western nationals in China's media industry, has admitted a place for the term but recognizes it as a pejorative, stating that \"it is the foreigners [in China] who can't speak any Chinese who are truly 'laowai'\" (). This in itself, implies that the term laowai is something many, including Dashan himself, would prefer to avoid. Editorials, written by Chinese and non-Chinese, have appeared in English and Chinese language newspapers about the subject, particularly around the time of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, when Chinese governments launched campaigns aimed at curbing use of the term in possibly offensive situations.\n\n"}
{"id": "6188215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6188215", "title": "Manifestations of postmodernism", "text": "Manifestations of postmodernism\n\nThis article has examples of the influence of postmodernism on various fields.\nWhere modernists hoped to unearth universals or the fundamentals of art, postmodernism aims to unseat them, to embrace diversity and contradiction. A postmodern approach to art thus rejects the distinction between low and high art forms. The postmodern creator, in turn, is free to combine any elements or styles in a work, even in ways that are counter to or irrelevant to the apparent function of the object.\nPostmodern style is often characterized by eclecticism, digression, collage, pastiche, irony, the return of ornament and historical reference, and the appropriation of popular media. Some artistic movements commonly called postmodern are pop art, architectural deconstructivism, magical realism in literature, maximalism, and neo-romanticism. It rejects rigid genre boundaries and promotes parody, irony, and playfulness, commonly referred to as \"jouissance\" by postmodern theorists. Unlike modern art, postmodern art does not approach this fragmentation as somehow faulty or undesirable, but rather celebrates it. As the gravity of the search for underlying truth is relieved, it is replaced with 'play'. As postmodern icon David Byrne, and his band Talking Heads said: \"Stop making sense.\"\n\nPost-modernity, in attacking the perceived elitist approach of Modernism, sought greater connection with broader audiences. This is often labelled \"accessibility\" and is a central point of dispute in the question of the value of postmodern art. It has also embraced the mixing of words with art, collage and other movements in modernity, in an attempt to create more multiplicity of medium and message. Much of this centers on a shift of basic subject matter: postmodern artists regard the mass media as a fundamental subject for art, and use forms, tropes, and materials - such as banks of video monitors, found object art, and depictions of media objects - as focal points for their art. With his \"invention\" of \"readymade\", Marcel Duchamp is often seen as a forerunner on postmodern art. Where Andy Warhol furthered the concept with his appropriation of common popular symbols and \"ready-made\" cultural artifacts, bringing the previously mundane or trivial onto the previously hallowed ground of high art.\n\nPostmodernism's critical stance is interlinked with presenting new appraisals of previous works. As implied above, the works of the Dada movement received greater attention, as did collagists such as Robert Rauschenberg, whose works were initially considered unimportant in the context of the modernism of the 1950s, but who, by the 1980s, began to be seen as seminal. Post-modernism also elevated the importance of cinema in artistic discussions, placing it on a peer level with the other fine arts. This is both because of the blurring of distinctions between \"high\" and \"low\" forms, and because of the recognition that cinema represented the creation of simulacra which was later duplicated in the other arts.\nDavor Džalto, for example, attacks the postmodern positions in art and culture generally, confronting a sustainable personal identity, together with notions of creativity, freedom and communion, to the postmodern deconstruction of any metaphysical identity. But in the critique he stresses a positive role of postmodern views for a further historical, cultural and artistic development.\nPostmodern music is both a musical \"style\" and a musical \"condition\". As a musical \"style\", postmodern music contains characteristics of postmodern art—that is, art \"after\" modernism (see Modernism in Music); eclecticism in musical form and musical genre, combining characteristics from different genres, or employing jump-cut sectionalization (such as blocks). It tends to be self-referential and ironic, and it blurs the boundaries between \"high art\" and kitsch. Daniel Albright (2004) summarizes the traits of the postmodern style as bricolage, polystylism, and randomness.\n\nAs a musical \"condition\", postmodern music is simply the state of music in postmodernity, music after modernity. In this sense, postmodern music does not have any one particular style or characteristic, and is not necessarily postmodern in \"style\" or technique. The music of modernity, however, was viewed primarily as a means of expression while the music of postmodernity is valued more as a spectacle, a good for mass consumption, and an indicator of group identity. For example, one significant role of music in postmodern society is to act as a badge by which people can signify their identity as a member of a particular subculture.\n\nPostmodernity is also seen as an outgrowth of minimalism, as stated by composer Don Davis. Though it is more likely that it is an outgrowth of early film music of Carl Stalling. Stalling often had no central themes and used abrupt stylistic changes in much the same way as Zorn and Cage would later.\n\nPostmodernism in graphic design for the most part has been a visual and decorative movement.\nMany designers and design critics contend that postmodernism, in the literary or architectural sense of the term, never really impacted graphic design as it did these other fields.\nAlternatively, some argue that it did but took on a different persona. This can be seen in the work produced at Katherine McCoy's program at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Michigan during the late 1980s to late 1990s and at the MFA program at CalArts in California.\nBut when all was said and done, the various notions of the postmodern in the various design fields never really stuck to graphic design as it did with architecture. Some argue that the \"movement\" (if it ever was one) had little to no impact on graphic design.\nMore likely, it did, but more in the sense of a continuation or re-evaluation of the modern. Some would argue that this continuous re-evaluation is also just a component of the design process - happening for most of the second half of the 20th century in the profession.\nSince it was ultimately the work of graphic designers that inspired pop artists like Warhol and Liechtenstein, and architects like Robert Venturi and Denise Scott-Brown, it could be argued that graphic design practice and designs may be the root of Postmodernism.\n\nGraphic design saw a massive popular raising at the end of the seventies in form of Graffiti and Hip Hop culture's rise. Graphic forms of expression became a vast everyday hobby among school kids all around the developed western countries. Alongside this 'movement', that took rebellious and even criminal cultural forms, was born the mass hobby of coding computer graphics. This phenomenon worked as a stepping stone towards the graphic infrastructure that is applied in the majority of computer interfaces today.\n\nPostmodern literature argues for expansion, the return of reference, the celebration of fragmentation rather than the fear of it, and the role of reference itself in literature. While drawing on the experimental tendencies of authors such as Ernest Hemingway and William Faulkner in English, and Jorge Luis Borges in Spanish - writers who were taken as influences by American postmodern authors such as Norman Mailer, Thomas Pynchon, Kurt Vonnegut, Don DeLillo, John Barth, William Gaddis, David Foster Wallace, and Paul Auster - the advocates of postmodern literature argue that the present is fundamentally different from the modern period, and therefore requires a new literary sensibility.\n\nPost modernism in film can loosely be used to describe a film in which the audience's suspension of disbelief is destroyed, or at the very least toyed with, in order to free the audience's appreciation of the work, and the creator's means with which to express it. The cornerstones of conventional narrative structure and characterisation are changed and even turned on their head in order to create a work whose internal logic forms its means of expression. \n\nThough a popular movement in theatre, particularly with Bertolt Brecht's epic theatre and verfremdungseffekt, post modernist film didn't break into the mainstream until the advent of the French New Wave in the 1950s and 60's, with such films as Jean-Luc Godard's À bout de souffle. Luis Buñuel and Salvador Dalí's 1928 surrealist short Un Chien Andalou could be argued as a post modernist film however its extreme deconstruction of structure and character make its meaning almost entirely arbitrary, and thus to still convey some desired meaning post modernist films still maintain some conventional elements in order for the audience to grasp them. Two such examples are Jane Campion's Two Friends, in which the story of two school girls is shown in episodic segments arranged in reverse order; and Karel Reisz's The French Lieutenant's Woman, in which the story being played out on the screen is mirrored in the private lives of the actors playing it, which we also see. By making small but significant changes to the conventions of cinema the artificiality of the experience and the world presented is emphasised in the audience's mind, in order to remove them from the conventional emotional bonds they have to the subject matter, and to give them a new view of it.\n\nPostmodernism applied to film has four main concepts to think about.\n\nSimulation- taking what has been made, and reusing it. -Through pastiche: intentionally replicated style. -Through parody: drawing irony from styles to make new styles\n\nPre-fabrication- similar to simulation, draws even closer to already existing and noticeable scenes, and simply reuses them, in narrative, dialogue, etc.\n\nIntertextuality- similar to prefabrication, it’s a text that draws upon other texts. The clearest example is the blatant remake.\n\nBricolage- building a film like a collage of different film styles and genres\n\nAs with many cultural movements, one of postmodernism's most pronounced and visible ideas can be seen in architecture. The functional, and formalized, shapes and spaces of the modernist movement are replaced by unapologetically diverse aesthetics; styles collide, form is adopted for its own sake, and new ways of viewing familiar styles and space abound.\n\nArchitects generally considered postmodern include: Peter Eisenman, Philip Johnson's later works, John Burgee, Robert Venturi, Ricardo Bofill, James Stirling, Charles Willard Moore, and Frank Gehry.\n\nPost modern landscapes in contemporary cities can be understood better in the context of globalization which can be described as a variant form of capitalism where a growing proportion of all economic activity is being progressively organised at the international rather than the national, spatial scale. This international scope not only influences economic patterns, but also induces a multicultural ambience to metropolitan cities, effectively blending cultures into an altered context. David Harvey, in his seminal work, \"The Condition of Postmodernity\" argues that postmodernism, by way of contrasts, privileges heterogeneity and difference as liberative forces in the redefinition of cultural discourse and rejects metanarratives and overarching theories. It purports an existence of multi-visionary thinking within the mosaic of the contemporary metropolis. It heralded the shift from modernism to a \"perspectivism that questions how radically different realities may co-exist, collide and interpenetrate.\"\n\nTechnological utopianism is a common trait in Western history — from the 18th century when Adam Smith essentially labelled technological progress as the source of the Wealth of Nations, through the novels of Jules Verne in the late 19th century (with the notable exception of his then-unpublished \"Paris in the Twentieth Century\"), through Winston Churchill's belief that there was little an inventor could not achieve. Its manifestation in post-modernity was first through the explosion of analog mass broadcasting of television. Strongly associated with the work of Marshall McLuhan who argued that \"the medium is the message\", the ability of mass broadcasting to create visual symbols and mass action was seen as a liberating force in human affairs, even though at the same time Newton N. Minow was calling television \"a vast wasteland\".\n\nThe second wave of technological utopianism associated with postmodern thought came with the introduction of digital internetworking, and became identified with Esther Dyson and such popular outlets as Wired Magazine. According to this view digital communications makes the fragmentation of modern society a positive feature, since individuals can seek out those artistic, cultural and community experiences which they regard as being correct for themselves.\n\nThe common thread is that the fragmentation of society and communication gives the individual more autonomy to create their own environment and narrative. This links into the postmodern novel, which deals with the experience of structuring \"truth\" from fragments.\n\nAccording to postmodernist political theorists, there are many situations which are considered political in nature that can not be adequately discussed in traditional realist and liberal approaches to political science. Some examples they cite include the situation of a “draft-age youth whose identity is claimed in national narratives of ‘national security’ and the universalizing narratives of the ‘rights of man,’” of “the woman whose very womb is claimed by the irresolvable contesting narratives of ‘church,’ ‘paternity,’ ‘economy,’ and ‘liberal polity.’ They argue that in these cases, there are no fixed categories, stable sets of values, or common sense meanings to be understood in their scholarly exploration. They contend that liberal approaches do not aid in understanding these types of situations; arguing that there is no individual or social or institutional structure whose values can impose a meaning or interpretive narrative.\n\nPostmodernists argue that meaning and interpretation in these types of situations is always uncertain and arbitrary. They contend that the power in effect here is not that of oppression, but that of the cultural and social implications around them, which they say creates the framework within which they see themselves, which creates the boundaries of their possible courses of action.\n\nPostmodern political scientists, such as Richard Ashley, claim that in these marginal sites it is impossible to construct a coherent narrative, or story, about what is really taking place without including contesting and contradicting narratives, and still have a “true” story from the perspective of a “sovereign subject,” who can dictate the values pertinent to the “meaning” of the situation. By regarding them in this way, deconstructive readings attempt to uncover evidence of ancient cultural biases, conflicts, lies, tyrannies, and power structures, such as the tensions and ambiguity between peace and war, lord and subject, male and female, which serve as further examples of Derrida's binary oppositions in which the first element is privileged, or considered prior to and more authentic, in relation to the second. Examples of postmodern political scientists include post-colonial writers such as Frantz Fanon, feminist writers such as Cynthia Enloe, and postpositive theorists such as Ashley and James Der Derian.\n\nImportant to postmodernism's view of language is the focus on the implied meaning of words and the power structures that are accepted as part of the way words are used, from the use of the word \"Man\" with a capital \"M\" to refer to humanity collectively, to the default of the word \"he\" in English as a pronoun for a person of gender unknown to the speaker. However, this is merely the most obvious example of the changing relationship between diction and discourse which postmodernism presents.\n\nAn important concept in postmodernism's view of language is the idea of \"play\" text. In the context of postmodernism, play means changing the framework which connects ideas, and thus allows the troping, or turning, of a metaphor or word from one context to another, or from one frame of reference to another. Since, in postmodern thought, the \"text\" is a series of \"markings\" whose meaning is imputed by the reader, and not by the author, this play is the means by which the reader constructs or interprets the text, and the means by which the author gains a presence in the reader's mind. Play then involves invoking words in a manner which undermines their authority, by mocking their assumptions or style, or by layers of misdirection as to the intention of the author. Roland Barthes argued this concept, and coined it 'Death of the Author'; this allows for 'freedom of the reader'. Barthes is well known for having stated, \"It is language that speaks, not the author\". Another key concept is the view that people are, essentially, blank slated linguistically, and that social acclimation, cultural factors, habituation and images are the primary ways of shaping the structure of how people speak.\n\nPostmodern philosophy is a radical criticism of Western philosophy, because it rejects the universalizing tendencies of philosophy. It applies to movements that include post-structuralism, deconstruction, multiculturalism, neo-relativism, neo-marxism, gender studies and literary theory. It emerged beginning in the 1950s as a rejection of doctrines such as positivism, Social Darwinism, materialism and objective idealism..\n\nPostmodern philosophy emphasizes the importance of power relationships, personalization and discourse in the \"construction\" of truth and world views. In this context it has been used by critical theorists to assert that postmodernism is a break with the artistic and philosophical tradition of the Enlightenment, which they characterize as a quest for an ever-grander and more universal system of aesthetics, ethics, and knowledge. Postmodern philosophy draws on a number of approaches to criticize Western thought, including historicism, and psychoanalytic theory.\n\nPostmodern philosophy is criticised for prizing irony over knowledge, and giving the irrational equal footing with the rational.\n\nIn terms of frequently cited works, postmodernism and post-structuralism overlap quite significantly. Some philosophers, such as Jean-François Lyotard, can legitimately be classified into both groups. This is partly because both modernism and structuralism owe much to the Enlightenment project.\n\nStructuralism has a strong tendency to be scientific in seeking out stable patterns in observed phenomena — an epistemological attitude which is quite compatible with Enlightenment thinking, and incompatible with postmodernists. At the same time, findings from structuralist analysis carried a somewhat anti-Enlightenment message, revealing that rationality can be found in the minds of \"savage\" people, just in forms differing from those that people from \"civilized\" societies are used to seeing. Implicit here is a critique of the practice of colonialism, which was partly justified as a \"civilizing\" process by which wealthier societies bring knowledge, manners, and reason to less \"civilized\" ones.\n\nPost-structuralism, emerging as a response to the structuralists' scientific orientation, has kept the cultural relativism in structuralism, while discarding the scientific orientations.\n\nOne clear difference between postmodernism and poststructuralism is found in their respective attitudes towards the demise of the project of the Enlightenment: post-structuralism is fundamentally ambivalent, while postmodernism is decidedly celebratory.\n\nAnother difference is the nature of the two positions. While post-structuralism is a position in philosophy, encompassing views on human beings, language, body, society, and many other issues, it is not a name of an era. Post-modernism, on the other hand, is closely associated with \"post-modern\" era, a period in the history coming after the modern age.\n"}
{"id": "35605738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35605738", "title": "Mapping the Practice and Profession of Sculpture in Britain and Ireland 1851–1951", "text": "Mapping the Practice and Profession of Sculpture in Britain and Ireland 1851–1951\n\nMapping the Practice and Profession of Sculpture in Britain and Ireland 1851–1951 (Mapping Sculpture) is an online database of sculptors and their works. It is the result of a three-year research programme, funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council and the British Academy. The project was a partnership between University of Glasgow, the Victoria and Albert Museum and the Henry Moore Institute, with systems development being carried out by the Humanities Advanced Technology and Information Institute.\n\nThe project represents the first authoritative study of sculptors, related businesses and trades, art infrastructures, professional networks and cultural geographies, between the Great Exhibition of 1851, and the Festival of Britain in 1951. The database contains over 50,000 records about sculptural practice.\n\n\"Mapping Sculpture\" was originated by Ann Compton (Institute of Art History, University of Glasgow), who served as Project Director and Editor, with Professor Alison Yarrington (University of Glasgow, now University of Hull) as Principal Investigator and Dr. Marjorie Trusted (Victoria and Albert Museum) as Co-Investigator. HATII's Matthew Barr was the Systems Developer.\n\nAn upcoming special issue of the \"Sculpture Journal\", devoted to the \"Mapping Sculpture\" project, is due to be published in December 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "55613545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55613545", "title": "Mary Blathwayt", "text": "Mary Blathwayt\n\nMary Blathwayt (1 February 1879 – 25 June 1961) was a British feminist, suffragette and social reformer. She lived at Eagle House in Somerset that became known as the \"Suffragette's Rest\".\n\nMary Blathwayt was born 1 February 1879 in Worthing, Sussex, the daughter of Colonel Linley Blathwayt, an army officer who had served in India and Emily Blathwayt who were first cousins.\n\nUpon retiring from active service, Colonel Blathwayt and his family moved from India to Eagle House, Batheaston, on the outskirts of Bath.\n\nHer younger brother, William, trained as an electrical engineer and taught English in Germany for many years before returning to England at the beginning of the First World War. Mary, remained at home and attended Bath High School.\n\nBlathwayt and her mother started attending meetings of the Bath Women's Suffrage Society. In July 1906, Blathwayt gave three shillings to Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU). She first met Annie Kenney at a WSPU meeting in Bath and agreed to help Kenney, Elsie Howey, Clara Codd and Mary Phillips to organise the women's suffrage campaign in her area. Blathwayt was given an allowance by her family to support her in her work for women's rights. Many major people from the suffragette movement were invited to stay at her house and to plant a tree to celebrate a prison sentence.\n\nHowever when Vera Wentworth and Elsie Howey assaulted the Prime Minister this proved too much for Mary Blathwayt's family. Her mother, Emily, resigned from the WSPU and her father, Linley, wrote letters of protest to Christabel Pankhurst, Howey and Wentworth. Pankhurst was told that Howey and Wentworth could not visit their house again. Wentworth sent them a long reply expressing regret at their reaction but noting that \"if Mr. Asquith will not receive deputation they will pummel him again\".\n\nFollowing her retirement from the WSPU, Blathwayt lived a quiet life with her family at Eagle House until her death on 25 June 1961. The sixty trees that were planted at Eagle House were removed to make way for a housing estate. Other trees have been planted to mirror the lost memorials.\n\nBlathwayt's diary reveals that she probably had an affair with Cristabel Pankhurst before Pankhurst moved on to Annie Kenney. Blathwayt made notes of Kenney's sleeping partners when she stayed at Eagle House and jealousy has been proposed as the reason. In 1961 the Local Planning Authority overruled local objections and allowed the gardens to be redeveloped. The house was kept but its contents were auctioned and this included a Boadicea brooch given by Annie Kenney to Mary Blathwayt. The garden did not completely go unnoticed as a local journalist noted that the contents of the house were unimportant when compared to the suffragette's garden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10795328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10795328", "title": "Narrative medicine", "text": "Narrative medicine\n\nNarrative medicine is a medical approach that utilizes people's narratives in clinical practice, research, and education as a way to promote healing. It aims to address the relational and psychological dimensions that occur in tandem with physical illness, with the attempt to treat patients as humans with individual stories, rather than purely based on symptoms. In doing this, narrative medicine aims not only to validate the experience of the patient, but also to encourage creativity and self-reflection in the physician.\n\nIn 1910, the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching created Flexner's report, which set out to redefine medical educational practices. In this report, it argued that the proper goal of medicine is \"to attempt to fight the battle against disease.\"\n\nTowards the late 20th century, critics alleged that Western medicine had fallen victim to the professionalism movement. They argued that many medical schools and residency programs train physicians to treat medical problems purely on their symptoms without taking into account the specific psychological and personal history of the patient. The emergence of narrative medicine came as a contemporary effort to rehumanize medicine.\n\nOne prominent medical school that first began a program on narrative medicine was Columbia University Medical Center with their opening of the first Program in Narrative Medicine. Built within their College of Physicians and Surgeons, they believe that narrative medicine can make profound changes to the way medical treatment is administered:\n\n“Narrative Medicine fortifies clinical practice with the narrative competence to recognize, absorb, metabolize, interpret, and be moved by the stories of illness. Through narrative training, the Program in Narrative Medicine helps physicians, nurses, social workers, mental health professionals, chaplains, social workers, academics, and all those interested in the intersection between narrative and medicine improve the effectiveness of care by developing these skills with patients and colleagues. Our research and outreach missions are conceptualizing, evaluating, and spear-heading these ideas and practices nationally and internationally.\"\n\nRita Charon is the executive director of this program and has published and lectured on the benefits of doctors receiving narrative training as a way to increase empathy and reflection in the medical professional field.\n\nAs of the late 1990s, physicians like Rachel Naomi Remen and Rita Charon have argued that medical practice should be structured around the narratives of patients. Charon stated:\n\nThe number of schools in the United States that offer advanced classes in narrative medicine has been growing.\n\n\nThis growing field of narrative medicine extends beyond the United States: The British Medical Journal have begun adding their own writing seminars to promote this type of narrative in its emerging physicians.\n\nRachel Remen asserts,\n\nPeople who are physicians have been trained to believe that it is a scientific objectivity that makes them most effective in their efforts to understand and resolve the pain that others bring them, and a mental distance that protects them from becoming wounded from this difficult work.\nObjectivity, empathy, and global thinking are stated to not be incompatible with a degree of dissociation from the patient's suffering that is sufficient to protect oneself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39312308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39312308", "title": "National emblem", "text": "National emblem\n\nA national emblem is an emblem or seal that is reserved for use by a nation state or multi-national state as a symbol of that nation. Many nations have a seal or emblem in addition to a national flag and a national coat of arms. Other national symbols, such as national birds, trees, flowers, etc., are listed at lists of national symbols.\n"}
{"id": "17868936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17868936", "title": "Neo-Fauvism", "text": "Neo-Fauvism\n\nNeo-Fauvism was a poetic style of painting from the mid-1920s proposed as a challenge to Surrealism. \n\nThe magazine \"Cahiers d'Art\" was launched in 1926 and its writers mounted a challenge to the Surrealist practice of automatism by seeing it not in terms of unconscious expression, but as another development of traditional artistry. They identified a group of artists as the exponents of this and termed them Neo-Fauves.\n\nAlthough these artists were later mostly forgotten, the movement had an effect of disillusioning the Surrealist group with the technique of graphic automatism as a revolutionary means of by-passing conventional aesthetics, ideology and commercialism. \n\nNeo-Fauvism has been seen as the last trend within painting that could be marketed as a coherent style.\n\n"}
{"id": "36253964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36253964", "title": "Origin of speech", "text": "Origin of speech\n\nThe origin of speech refers to the more general problem of the origin of language in the context of the physiological\ndevelopment of the human speech organs such as the tongue, lips and vocal organs used to produce phonological units in all human languages.\n\nAlthough related to the more general problem of the origin of language, the evolution of distinctively human speech capacities has become a distinct and in many ways separate area of scientific research. The topic is a separate one because language is not necessarily spoken: it can equally be written or signed. Speech is in this sense optional, although it is the default modality for language.\n\nUncontroversially, monkeys, apes and humans, like many other animals, have evolved specialised mechanisms for producing \"sound\" for purposes of social communication. On the other hand, no monkey or ape uses its \"tongue\" for such purposes. Our species' unprecedented use of the tongue, lips and other moveable parts seems to place speech in a quite separate category, making its evolutionary emergence an intriguing theoretical challenge in the eyes of many scholars.\n\nThe term \"modality\" means the chosen representational format for encoding and transmitting information. A striking feature of language is that it is \"modality-independent.\" Should an impaired child be prevented from hearing or producing sound, its innate capacity to master a language may equally find expression in signing. Sign languages of the deaf are independently invented and have all the major properties of spoken language except for the modality of transmission. From this it appears that the language centres of the human brain must have evolved to function optimally irrespective of the selected modality.\n\nThis feature is extraordinary. Animal communication systems routinely combine visible with audible properties and effects, but not one is modality-independent. No vocally impaired whale, dolphin or songbird, for example, could express its song repertoire equally in visual display. Indeed, in the case of animal communication, message and modality are not capable of being disentangled. Whatever message is being conveyed stems from intrinsic properties of the signal.\n\nModality independence should not be confused with the ordinary phenomenon of multimodality. Monkeys and apes rely on a repertoire of species-specific \"gesture-calls\" — emotionally expressive vocalisations inseparable from the visual displays which accompany them. Humans also have species-specific gesture-calls — laughs, cries, sobs and so forth — together with involuntary gestures accompanying speech. Many animal displays are polymodal in that each appears designed to exploit multiple channels simultaneously.\n\nThe human linguistic property of \"modality independence\" is conceptually distinct from this. It allows the speaker to encode the informational content of a message in a single channel, while switching between channels as necessary. Modern city-dwellers switch effortlessly between the spoken word and writing in its various forms — handwriting, typing, e-mail and so forth. Whichever modality is chosen, it can reliably transmit the full message content without external assistance of any kind. When talking on the telephone, for example, any accompanying facial or manual gestures, however natural to the speaker, are not strictly necessary. When typing or manually signing, conversely, there's no need to add sounds. In many Australian Aboriginal cultures, a section of the population — perhaps women observing a ritual taboo — traditionally restrict themselves for extended periods to a silent (manually signed) version of their language. Then, when released from the taboo, these same individuals resume narrating stories by the fireside or in the dark, switching to pure sound without sacrifice of informational content.\n\nSpeaking is the default modality for language in all cultures. Humans' first recourse is to encode our thoughts in sound — a method which depends on sophisticated capacities for controlling the lips, tongue and other components of the vocal apparatus.\n\nThe speech organs, everyone agrees, evolved in the first instance not for speech but for more basic bodily functions such as feeding and breathing. Nonhuman primates have broadly similar organs, but with different neural controls. Apes use their highly flexible, maneuverable tongues for eating but not for vocalizing. When an ape is not eating, fine motor control over its tongue is deactivated. \"Either\" it is performing gymnastics with its tongue \"or\" it is vocalising; it cannot perform both activities simultaneously. Since this applies to mammals in general, \"Homo sapiens\" is exceptional in harnessing mechanisms designed for respiration and ingestion to the radically different requirements of articulate speech.\n\nThe word \"language\" derives from the Latin \"lingua,\" \"tongue\". Phoneticians agree that the tongue is the most important speech articulator, followed by the lips. A natural language can be viewed as a particular way of using the tongue to express thought.\n\nThe human tongue has an unusual shape. In most mammals, it's a long, flat structure contained largely within the mouth. It is attached at the rear to the hyoid bone, situated below oral level in the pharynx. In humans, the tongue has an almost circular sagittal (midline) contour, much of it lying vertically down an extended pharynx, where it is attached to a hyoid bone in a lowered position. Partly as a result of this, the horizontal (inside-the-mouth) and vertical (down-the-throat) tubes forming the supralaryngeal vocal tract (SVT) are almost equal in length (whereas in other species, the vertical section is shorter). As we move our jaws up and down, the tongue can vary the cross-sectional area of each tube independently by about 10:1, altering formant frequencies accordingly. That the tubes are joined at a right angle permits pronunciation of the vowels [i], [u] and [a], which nonhuman primates cannot do. Even when not performed particularly accurately, in humans the articulatory gymnastics needed to distinguish these vowels yield consistent, distinctive acoustic results, illustrating the quantal nature of human speech sounds. It may not be coincidental that [i], [u] and [a] are the most common vowels in the world's languages.\n\nIn humans, the lips are important for the production of stops and fricatives, in addition to vowels. Nothing, however, suggests that the lips evolved for those reasons. During primate evolution, a shift from nocturnal to diurnal activity in tarsiers, monkeys and apes (the haplorhines) brought with it an increased reliance on vision at the expense of olfaction. As a result, the snout became reduced and the rhinarium or \"wet nose\" was lost. The muscles of the face and lips consequently became less constrained, enabling their co-option to serve purposes of facial expression. The lips also became thicker. \"Hence\", according to one major authority, \"the evolution of mobile, muscular lips, so important to human speech, was the exaptive result of the evolution of diurnality and visual communication in the common ancestor of haplorhines\". It is unclear whether our lips have undergone more recent adaptation to the specific requirements of speech.\n\nCompared with nonhuman primates, humans have significantly enhanced control of breathing, enabling exhalations to be extended and inhalations shortened as we speak. While we are speaking, intercostal and interior abdominal muscles are recruited to expand the thorax and draw air into the lungs, and subsequently to control the release of air as the lungs deflate. The muscles concerned are markedly more innervated in humans than in nonhuman primates. Evidence from fossil hominins suggests that the necessary enlargement of the vertebral canal, and therefore spinal cord dimensions, may not have occurred in \"Australopithecus\" or \"Homo erectus\" but was present in the Neanderthals and early modern humans.\n\nThe larynx or voice box is an organ in the neck housing the vocal folds, which are responsible for phonation. In humans, the larynx is \"descended\". Our species is not unique in this respect: goats, dogs, pigs and tamarins lower the larynx temporarily, to emit loud calls. Several deer species have a permanently lowered larynx, which may be lowered still further by males during their roaring displays. Lions, jaguars, cheetahs and domestic cats also do this. However, laryngeal descent in nonhumans (according to Philip Lieberman) is not accompanied by descent of the hyoid; hence the tongue remains horizontal in the oral cavity, preventing it from acting as a pharyngeal articulator.\nDespite all this, scholars remain divided as to how \"special\" the human vocal tract really is. It has been shown that the larynx does descend to some extent during development in chimpanzees, followed by hyoidal descent. As against this, Philip Lieberman points out that only humans have evolved permanent and substantial laryngeal descent in association with hyoidal descent, resulting in a curved tongue and two-tube vocal tract with 1:1 proportions. Uniquely in the human case, simple contact between the epiglottis and velum is no longer possible, disrupting the normal mammalian separation of the respiratory and digestive tracts during swallowing. Since this entails substantial costs — increasing the risk of choking while swallowing food — we are forced to ask what benefits might have outweighed those costs. The obvious benefit — so it is claimed — must have been speech. But this idea has been vigorously contested. One objection is that humans are in fact \"not\" seriously at risk of choking on food: medical statistics indicate that accidents of this kind are extremely rare. Another objection is that in the view of most scholars, speech as we know it emerged relatively late in human evolution, roughly contemporaneously with the emergence of \"Homo sapiens.\" A development as complex as the reconfiguration of the human vocal tract would have required much more time, implying an early date of origin. This discrepancy in timescales undermines the idea that human vocal flexibility was \"initially\" driven by selection pressures for speech.\n\nAt least one orangutan has demonstrated the ability to control the voice box.\n\nTo lower the larynx is to increase the length of the vocal tract, in turn lowering formant frequencies so that the voice sounds \"deeper\" — giving an impression of greater size. John Ohala argues that the function of the lowered larynx in humans, especially males, is probably to enhance threat displays rather than speech itself. Ohala points out that if the lowered larynx were an adaptation for speech, we would expect adult human males to be better adapted in this respect than adult females, whose larynx is considerably less low. In fact, females invariably outperform males in verbal tests, falsifying this whole line of reasoning. W. Tecumseh Fitch likewise argues that this was the original selective advantage of laryngeal lowering in our species. Although (according to Fitch) the initial lowering of the larynx in humans had nothing to do with speech, the increased range of possible formant patterns was subsequently co-opted for speech. Size exaggeration remains the sole function of the extreme laryngeal descent observed in male deer. Consistent with the size exaggeration hypothesis, a second descent of the larynx occurs at puberty in humans, although only in males. In response to the objection that the larynx is descended in human females, Fitch suggests that mothers vocalising to protect their infants would also have benefited from this ability.\n\nMost specialists credit the Neanderthals with speech abilities not radically different from those of modern \"Homo sapiens\". An indirect line of argument is that their tool-making and hunting tactics would have been difficult to learn or execute without some kind of speech. A recent extraction of DNA from Neanderthal bones indicates that Neanderthals had the same version of the FOXP2 gene as modern humans. This gene, once mistakenly described as the \"grammar gene\", plays a role in controlling the orofacial movements which (in modern humans) are involved in speech.\n\nDuring the 1970s, it was widely believed that the Neanderthals lacked modern speech capacities. It was claimed that they possessed a hyoid bone so high up in the vocal tract as to preclude the possibility of producing certain vowel sounds.\n\nThe hyoid bone is present in many mammals. It allows a wide range of tongue, pharyngeal and laryngeal movements by bracing these structures alongside each other in order to produce variation. It is now realised that its lowered position is not unique to \"Homo sapiens\", while its relevance to vocal flexibility may have been overstated: although men have a lower larynx, they do not produce a wider range of sounds than women or two-year-old babies. There is no evidence that the larynx position of the Neanderthals impeded the range of vowel sounds they could produce. The discovery of a modern-looking hyoid bone of a Neanderthal man in the Kebara Cave in Israel led its discoverers to argue that the Neanderthals had a descended larynx, and thus human-like speech capabilities. However, other researchers have claimed that the morphology of the hyoid is not indicative of the larynx's position. It is necessary to take into consideration the skull base, the mandible and the cervical vertebrae and a cranial reference plane.\n\nThe morphology of the outer and middle ear of Middle Pleistocene hominins from Atapuerca SH in Spain, believed to be proto-Neanderthal, suggests they had an auditory sensitivity similar to modern humans and very different from chimpanzees. They were probably able to differentiate between many different speech sounds.\n\nThe hypoglossal nerve plays an important role in controlling movements of the tongue. In 1998, one research team used the size of the hypoglossal canal in the base of fossil skulls in an attempt to estimate the relative number of nerve fibres, claiming on this basis that Middle Pleistocene hominins and Neanderthals had more fine-tuned tongue control than either australopithecines or apes. Subsequently, however, it was demonstrated that hypoglossal canal size and nerve sizes are not correlated, and it is now accepted that such evidence is uninformative about the timing of human speech evolution.\n\nAccording to one influential school, the human vocal apparatus is intrinsically digital on the model of a keyboard or digital computer. If so, this is remarkable: nothing about a chimpanzee's vocal apparatus suggests a digital keyboard, notwithstanding the anatomical and physiological similarities. This poses the question as to when and how, during and the course of human evolution, the transition from analog to digital structure and function occurred.\n\nThe human supralaryngeal tract is said to be digital in the sense that it is an arrangement of moveable toggles or switches, each of which, at any one time, must be in one state or another. The vocal cords, for example, are either vibrating (producing a sound) or not vibrating (in silent mode). By virtue of simple physics, the corresponding distinctive feature — in this case, \"voicing\" — cannot be somewhere in between. The options are limited to \"off\" and \"on\". Equally digital is the feature known as \"nasalisation\". At any given moment the soft palate or velum either allows or doesn't allow sound to resonate in the nasal chamber. In the case of lip and tongue positions, more than two digital states may be allowed. (To experiment with this, click on Interactive Saggital Section).\n\nThe theory that speech sounds are composite entities constituted by complexes of binary phonetic features was first advanced in 1938 by the Russian linguist Roman Jakobson. A prominent early supporter of this approach was Noam Chomsky, who went on to extend it from phonology to language more generally, in particular to the study of syntax and semantics. In his 1965 book, \"Aspects of the Theory of Syntax,\" Chomsky treated semantic concepts as combinations of binary-digital atomic elements explicitly on the model of distinctive features theory. The lexical item \"bachelor\", on this basis, would be expressed as [+ Human], [+ Male], [- Married].\n\nSupporters of this approach view the vowels and consonants recognised by speakers of a particular language or dialect at a particular time as cultural entities of little scientific interest. From a natural science standpoint, the units which matter are those common to \"Homo sapiens\" by virtue of our biological nature. By combining the atomic elements or \"features\" with which all humans are innately equipped, anyone may in principle generate the entire range of vowels and consonants to be found in any of the world's languages, whether past, present or future. The distinctive features are in this sense atomic components of a universal language.\n\nIn recent years, the notion of an innate \"universal grammar\" underlying phonological variation has been called into question. The most comprehensive monograph ever written about speech sounds, \"Sounds of the World's Languages,\" by Peter Ladefoged and Ian Maddieson, found virtually no basis for the postulation of some small number of fixed, discrete, universal phonetic features. Examining 305 languages, for example, they encountered vowels that were positioned basically everywhere along the articulatory and acoustic continuum. Ladefoged concludes that phonological features are not determined by human nature: \"Phonological features are best regarded as artifacts that linguists have devised in order to describe linguistic systems.\" The controversy remains unresolved.\n\nSelf-organization characterizes systems where macroscopic structures are spontaneously formed out of local interactions between the many components of the system. In self-organized systems, global organizational properties are not to be found at the local level. In colloquial terms, self-organisation is roughly captured by the idea of \"bottom-up\" (as opposed to \"top-down\") organisation. Examples of self-organized systems range from ice crystals to galaxy spirals in the inorganic world, and from spots on the leopard skins to the architecture of termite nests or shape of a flock of starlings.\nAccording to many phoneticians, the sounds of language arrange and re-arrange themselves through self-organization Speech sounds have both perceptual (\"how you hear them\") and articulatory (\"how you produce them\") properties, all with continuous values. Speakers tend to minimise effort, favouring ease of articulation over clarity. Listeners do the opposite, favouring sounds which are easy to distinguish even if difficult to pronounce. Since speakers and listeners are constantly switching roles, the syllable systems actually found in the world's languages turn out to be a compromise between acoustic distinctiveness on the one hand, and articulatory ease on the other.\n\nHow, precisely, do systems of vowels, consonants and syllables arise? Agent-based computer models take the perspective of self-organisation at the level of the speech community or population. The two main paradigms here are (1) the iterated learning model and (2) the language game model. Iterated learning focuses on transmission from generation to generation, typically with just one agent in each generation.\nIn the language game model, a whole population of agents simultaneously produce, perceive and learn language, inventing novel forms when the need arises.\n\nSeveral models have shown how relatively simple peer-to-peer vocal interactions, such as imitation, can spontaneously self-organize a system of sounds shared by the whole population, and different in different populations. For example, models elaborated by Berrah et al., as well as de Boer, and recently reformulated using Bayesian theory, showed how a group of individuals playing imitation games can self-organize repertoires of vowel sounds which share substantial properties with human vowel systems. For example, in de Boer's model, initially vowels are generated randomly, but agents learn from each other as they interact repeatedly over time. Agent A chooses a vowel from its repertoire and produces it, inevitably with some noise. Agent B hears this vowel and chooses the closest equivalent from its own repertoire. To check whether this truly matches the original, B produces the vowel \"it thinks it has heard\", whereupon A refers once again to its own repertoire to find the closest equivalent. If this matches the one it initially selected, the game is successful, otherwise it has failed. \"Through repeated interactions,\" according to de Boer, \"vowel systems emerge that are very much like the ones found in human languages.\"\n\nIn a different model, the phonetician Björn Lindblom was able to predict, on self-organizational grounds, the favoured choices of vowel systems ranging from three to nine vowels on the basis of a principle of optimal perceptual differentiation.\n\nFurther models studied the role of self-organization in the origins of phonemic coding and combinatoriality, that is the existence of phonemes and their systematic reuse to build structured syllables. Pierre-Yves Oudeyer developed models which showed that basic neural equipment for adaptive holistic vocal imitation, coupling directly motor and perceptual representations in the brain, can generate spontaneously shared combinatorial systems of vocalizations, including phonotactic patterns, in a society of babbling individuals. These models also characterized how morphological and physiological innate constraints can interact with these self-organized mechanisms to account for both the formation of statistical regularities and diversity in vocalization systems.\n\nThe gestural theory states that speech was a relatively late development, evolving by degrees from a system that was originally gestural.\n\nTwo types of evidence support this theory:\n\nResearch has found strong support for the idea that spoken language and signing depend on similar neural structures. Patients who used sign language, and who suffered from a left-hemisphere lesion, showed the same disorders with their sign language as vocal patients did with their oral language. Other researchers found that the same left-hemisphere brain regions were active during sign language as during the use of vocal or written language.\n\nHumans spontaneously use hand and facial gestures when formulating ideas to be conveyed in speech. There are also, of course, many sign languages in existence, commonly associated with deaf communities; as noted above, these are equal in complexity, sophistication, and expressive power, to any oral language. The main difference is that the \"phonemes\" are produced on the outside of the body, articulated with hands, body, and facial expression, rather than inside the body articulated with tongue, teeth, lips, and breathing.\n\nCritics note that for mammals in general, sound turns out to be the best medium in which to encode information for transmission over distances at speed. Given the probability that this applied also to early humans, it's hard to see why they should have abandoned this efficient method in favour of more costly and cumbersome systems of visual gesturing — only to return to sound at a later stage.\n\nBy way of explanation, it has been proposed that at a relatively late stage in human evolution, our ancestors' hands became so much in demand for making and using tools that the competing demands of manual gesturing became a hindrance. The transition to spoken language is said to have occurred only at that point. Since humans throughout evolution have been making and using tools, however, most scholars remain unconvinced by this argument. (For a different approach to this puzzle — one setting out from considerations of signal reliability and trust — see \"from pantomime to speech\" below).\n\nLittle is known about the timing of language's emergence in the human species. Unlike writing, speech leaves no material trace, making it archaeologically invisible. Lacking direct linguistic evidence, specialists in human origins have resorted to the study of anatomical features and genes arguably associated with speech production. While such studies may provide information as to whether pre-modern \"Homo\" species had speech \"capacities\", it is still unknown whether they actually spoke. While they may have communicated vocally, the anatomical and genetic data lack the resolution necessary to differentiate proto-language from speech.\n\nUsing statistical methods to estimate the time required to achieve the current spread and diversity in modern languages today, Johanna Nichols — a linguist at the University of California, Berkeley — argued in 1998 that vocal languages must have begun diversifying in our species at least 100,000 years ago.\n\nMore recently — in 2012 — anthropologists Charles Perreault and Sarah Mathew used phonemic diversity to suggest a date consistent with this. \"Phonemic diversity\" denotes the number of perceptually distinct units of sound — consonants, vowels and tones — in a language. The current worldwide pattern of phonemic diversity potentially contains the statistical signal of the expansion of modern \"Homo sapiens\" out of Africa, beginning around 60-70 thousand years ago. Some scholars argue that phonemic diversity evolves slowly and can be used as a clock to calculate how long the oldest African languages would have to have been around in order to accumulate the number of phonemes they possess today. As human populations left Africa and expanded into the rest of the world, they underwent a series of bottlenecks — points at which only a very small population survived to colonise a new continent or region. Allegedly such population crash led to a corresponding reduction in genetic, phenotypic and phonemic diversity. African languages today have some of the largest phonemic inventories in the world, while the smallest inventories are found in South America and Oceania, some of the last regions of the globe to be colonized. For example, Rotokas, a language of New Guinea, and Pirahã, spoken in South America, both have just 11 phonemes, while !Xun, a language spoken in Southern Africa has 141 phonemes.\nThe authors use a natural experiment — the colonization of mainland Southeast Asia on the one hand, the long-isolated Andaman Islands on the other — to estimate the rate at which phonemic diversity increases through time. Using this rate, they estimate that the world's languages date back to the Middle Stone Age in Africa, sometime between 350 thousand and 150 thousand years ago. This corresponds to the speciation event which gave rise to \"Homo sapiens\".\n\nThese and similar studies have however been criticized by linguists who argue that they are based on a flawed analogy between genes and phonemes, since phonemes are frequently transferred laterally between languages unlike genes, and on a flawed sampling of the world's languages, since both Oceania and the Americas also contain languages with very high numbers of phonemes, and Africa contains languages with very few. They argue that the actual distribution of phonemic diversity in the world reflects recent language contact and not deep language history - since it is well demonstrated that languages can lose or gain many phonemes over very short periods. In other words, there is no valid linguistic reason to expect genetic founder effects to influence phonemic diversity.\n\nIn 1861, historical linguist Max Müller published a list of speculative theories concerning the origins of spoken language:\n\nMost scholars today consider all such theories not so much wrong — they occasionally offer peripheral insights — as comically naïve and irrelevant. The problem with these theories is that they are so narrowly mechanistic. They assume that once our ancestors had stumbled upon the appropriate ingenious \"mechanism\" for linking sounds with meanings, language automatically evolved and changed.\n\nFrom the perspective of modern science, the main obstacle to the evolution of speech-like communication in nature is not a mechanistic one. Rather, it is that symbols — arbitrary associations of sounds with corresponding meanings — are unreliable and may well be false. As the saying goes, \"words are cheap\". The problem of reliability was not recognised at all by Darwin, Müller or the other early evolutionist theorists.\n\nAnimal vocal signals are for the most part intrinsically reliable. When a cat purrs, the signal constitutes direct evidence of the animal's contented state. One can \"trust\" the signal not because the cat is inclined to be honest, but because it just can't fake that sound. Primate vocal calls may be slightly more manipulable, but they remain reliable for the same reason — because they are hard to fake. Primate social intelligence is \"Machiavellian\" — self-serving and unconstrained by moral scruples. Monkeys and apes often attempt to deceive one another, while at the same time constantly on guard against falling victim to deception themselves. Paradoxically, it is precisely primates' resistance to deception that blocks the evolution of their vocal communication systems along language-like lines. Language is ruled out because the best way to guard against being deceived is to ignore all signals except those that are instantly verifiable. Words automatically fail this test.\n\nWords are easy to fake. Should they turn out to be lies, listeners will adapt by ignoring them in favour of hard-to-fake indices or cues. For language to work, then, listeners must be confident that those with whom they are on speaking terms are generally likely to be honest. A peculiar feature of language is \"displaced reference\", which means reference to topics outside the currently perceptible situation. This property prevents utterances from being corroborated in the immediate \"here\" and \"now\". For this reason, language presupposes relatively high levels of mutual trust in order to become established over time as an evolutionarily stable strategy. A theory of the origins of language must therefore explain why humans could begin trusting cheap signals in ways that other animals apparently cannot (see signalling theory).\n\nThe \"mother tongues\" hypothesis was proposed in 2004 as a possible solution to this problem. W. Tecumseh Fitch suggested that the Darwinian principle of \"kin selection\" — the convergence of genetic interests between relatives — might be part of the answer. Fitch suggests that spoken languages were originally \"mother tongues\". If speech evolved initially for communication between mothers and their own biological offspring, extending later to include adult relatives as well, the interests of speakers and listeners would have tended to coincide. Fitch argues that shared genetic interests would have led to sufficient trust and cooperation for intrinsically unreliable vocal signals — spoken words — to become accepted as trustworthy and so begin evolving for the first time.\n\nCritics of this theory point out that kin selection is not unique to humans. Ape mothers also share genes with their offspring, as do all animals, so why is it only humans who speak? Furthermore, it is difficult to believe that early humans restricted linguistic communication to genetic kin: the incest taboo must have forced men and women to interact and communicate with non-kin. So even if we accept Fitch's initial premises, the extension of the posited \"mother tongue\" networks from relatives to non-relatives remains unexplained.\n\nIb Ulbæk invokes another standard Darwinian principle — \"reciprocal altruism\" — to explain the unusually high levels of intentional honesty necessary for language to evolve. 'Reciprocal altruism' can be expressed as the principle that \"if you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours.\" In linguistic terms, it would mean that \"if you speak truthfully to me, I'll speak truthfully to you.\" Ordinary Darwinian reciprocal altruism, Ulbæk points out, is a relationship established between frequently interacting individuals. For language to prevail across an entire community, however, the necessary reciprocity would have needed to be enforced universally instead of being left to individual choice. Ulbæk concludes that for language to evolve, early society as a whole must have been subject to moral regulation.\n\nCritics point out that this theory fails to explain when, how, why or by whom \"obligatory reciprocal altruism\" could possibly have been enforced. Various proposals have been offered to remedy this defect. A further criticism is that language doesn't work on the basis of reciprocal altruism anyway. Humans in conversational groups don't withhold information to all except listeners likely to offer valuable information in return. On the contrary, they seem to want to advertise to the world their access to socially relevant information, broadcasting it to anyone who will listen without thought of return.\n\nGossip, according to Robin Dunbar, does for group-living humans what manual grooming does for other primates — it allows individuals to service their relationships and so maintain their alliances. As humans began living in larger and larger social groups, the task of manually grooming all one's friends and acquaintances became so time-consuming as to be unaffordable. In response to this problem, humans invented \"a cheap and ultra-efficient form of grooming\" — \"vocal grooming\". To keep your allies happy, you now needed only to \"groom\" them with low-cost vocal sounds, servicing multiple allies simultaneously while keeping both hands free for other tasks. Vocal grooming (the production of pleasing sounds lacking syntax or combinatorial semantics) then evolved somehow into syntactical speech.\n\nCritics of this theory point out that the very efficiency of \"vocal grooming\" — that words are so cheap — would have undermined its capacity to signal commitment of the kind conveyed by time-consuming and costly manual grooming. A further criticism is that the theory does nothing to explain the crucial transition from vocal grooming — the production of pleasing but meaningless sounds — to the cognitive complexities of syntactical speech.\n\nAccording to another school of thought, language evolved from mimesis — the \"acting out\" of scenarios using vocal and gestural pantomime. For as long as utterances needed to be emotionally expressive and convincing, it was not possible to complete the transition to purely conventional signs. On this assumption, pre-linguistic gestures and vocalisations would have been required not just to disambiguate intended meanings, but also to inspire confidence in their intrinsic reliability. If contractual commitments were necessary in order to inspire community-wide trust in communicative intentions, it would follow that these had to be in place before humans could shift at last to an ultra-efficient, high-speed — digital as opposed to analog — signalling format. Vocal distinctive features (sound contrasts) are ideal for this purpose. It is therefore suggested that the establishment of contractual understandings enabled the decisive transition from mimetic gesture to fully conventionalised, digitally encoded speech.\n\nThe ritual/speech coevolution theory was originally proposed by the distinguished social anthropologist Roy Rappaport before being elaborated by anthropologists such as Chris Knight, Jerome Lewis, Nick Enfield, Camilla Power and Ian Watts. Cognitive scientist and robotics engineer Luc Steels is another prominent supporter of this general approach, as is biological anthropologist/neuroscientist Terrence Deacon.\n\nThese scholars argue that there can be no such thing as a \"theory of the origins of language\". This is because language is not a separate adaptation but an internal aspect of something much wider — namely, human symbolic culture as a whole. Attempts to explain language independently of this wider context have spectacularly failed, say these scientists, because they are addressing a problem with no solution. Can we imagine a historian attempting to explain the emergence of credit cards independently of the wider system of which they are a part? Using a credit card makes sense only if you have a bank account institutionally recognised within a certain kind of advanced capitalist society — one where communications technology has already been invented and fraud can be detected and prevented. In much the same way, language would not work outside a specific array of social mechanisms and institutions. For example, it would not work for an ape communicating with other apes in the wild. Not even the cleverest ape could make language work under such conditions.\n\nSpeech consists of digital contrasts whose cost is essentially zero. As pure social conventions, signals of this kind cannot evolve in a Darwinian social world — they are a theoretical impossibility. Being intrinsically unreliable, language works only if you can build up a reputation for trustworthiness within a certain kind of society — namely, one where symbolic cultural facts (sometimes called \"institutional facts\") can be established and maintained through collective social endorsement. In any hunter-gatherer society, the basic mechanism for establishing trust in symbolic cultural facts is collective \"ritual\". Therefore, the task facing researchers into the origins of language is more multidisciplinary than is usually supposed. It involves addressing the evolutionary emergence of human symbolic culture as a whole, with language an important but subsidiary component.\n\nCritics of the theory include Noam Chomsky, who terms it the \"non-existence\" hypothesis — a denial of the very existence of language as an object of study for natural science. Chomsky's own theory is that language emerged in an instant and in perfect form, prompting his critics in turn to retort that only something that doesn't exist — a theoretical construct or convenient scientific fiction — could possibly emerge in such a miraculous way. The controversy remains unresolved.\n\nThe essay \"The festal origin of human speech\", though published in the late nineteenth century, made little impact until the American philosopher Susanne Langer re-discovered and publicised it in 1941. \nThe theory sets out from the observation that primate vocal sounds are above all \"emotionally\" expressive. The emotions aroused are socially contagious. Because of this, an extended bout of screams, hoots or barks will tend to express not just the feelings of this or that individual but the mutually contagious ups and downs of everyone within earshot.\n\nTurning to the ancestors of \"Homo sapiens\", the \"festal origin\" theory suggests that in the \"play-excitement\" preceding or following a communal hunt or other group activity, everyone might have combined their voices in a comparable way, emphasising their mood of togetherness with such noises as rhythmic drumming and hand-clapping. Variably pitched voices would have formed conventional patterns, such that choral singing became an integral part of communal celebration.\n\nAlthough this was not yet speech, according to Langer, it developed the vocal capacities from which speech would later derive. There would be conventional modes of ululating, clapping or dancing appropriate to different festive occasions, each so intimately associated with \"that kind of occasion\" that it would tend to collectively uphold and embody the concept of it. Anyone hearing a snatch of sound from such a song would recall the associated occasion and mood. A melodic, rhythmic sequence of syllables conventionally associated with a certain type of celebration would become, in effect, its vocal mark. On that basis, certain familiar sound sequences would become \"symbolic\".\n\nIn support of all this, Langer cites ethnographic reports of tribal songs consisting entirely of \"rhythmic nonsense syllables\". She concedes that an English equivalent such as \"hey-nonny-nonny\", although perhaps suggestive of certain feelings or ideas, is neither noun, verb, adjective, nor any other syntactical part of speech. So long as articulate sound served only in the capacity of \"hey nonny-nonny\", \"hallelujah\" or \"alack-a-day\", it cannot yet have been speech. For that to arise, according to Langer, it was necessary for such sequences to be emitted increasingly \"out of context\" — outside the total situation that gave rise to them. Extending a set of associations from one cognitive context to another, completely different one, is the secret of \"metaphor\". Langer invokes an early version of what is nowadays termed \"grammaticalisation\" theory to show how, from, such a point of departure, syntactically complex speech might progressively have arisen.\n\nLanger acknowledges Emile Durkheim as having proposed a strikingly similar theory back in 1912. For recent thinking along broadly similar lines, see Steven Brown on \"musilanguage\", Chris Knight on \"ritual\" and \"play\", Jerome Lewis on \"mimicry\", Steven Mithen on \"Hmmmmm\" Bruce Richman on \"nonsense syllables\" and Alison Wray on \"holistic protolanguage\".\n\nThe term \"musilanguage\" (or \"hmmmmm\") refers to a pre-linguistic system of vocal communication from which (according to some scholars) \"both\" music \"and\" language later derived. The idea is that rhythmic, melodic, emotionally expressive vocal ritual helped bond coalitions and, over time, set up selection pressures for enhanced volitional control over the speech articulators. Patterns of synchronised choral chanting are imagined to have varied according to the occasion. For example, \"we're setting off to find honey\" might sound qualitatively different from \"we're setting off to hunt\" or \"we're grieving over our relative's death\". If social standing depended on maintaining a regular beat and harmonising one's own voice with that of everyone else, group members would have come under pressure to demonstrate their choral skills.\n\nArchaeologist Steven Mithen speculates that the Neanderthals possessed some such system, expressing themselves in a \"language\" known as \"Hmmmmm\", standing for Holistic, manipulative, multi-modal, musical and mimetic. In Bruce Richman's earlier version of essentially the same idea, frequent repetition of the same few songs by many voices made it easy for people to remember those sequences as whole units. Activities that a group of people were doing while they were vocalising together — activities that were important or striking or richly emotional — came to be associated with particular sound sequences, so that each time a fragment was heard, it evoked highly specific memories. The idea is that the earliest lexical items (words) started out as abbreviated fragments of what were originally communal songs.\n\nAs group members accumulated an expanding repertoire of songs for different occasions, interpersonal call-and-response patterns evolved along one trajectory to assume linguistic form. Meanwhile, along a divergent trajectory, polyphonic singing and other kinds of music became increasingly specialised and sophisticated.\n\nTo explain the establishment of syntactical speech, Richman cites English \"I wanna go home\". He imagines this to have been learned in the first instance not as a combinatorial sequence of free-standing words, but as a single stuck-together combination — the melodic sound people make to express \"feeling homesick\". Someone might sing \"I wanna go home\", prompting other voices to chime in with \"I need to go home\", \"I'd love to go home\", \"Let's go home\" and so forth. Note that one part of the song remains constant, while another is permitted to vary. If this theory is accepted, syntactically complex speech began evolving as each chanted mantra allowed for variation at a certain point, allowing for the insertion of an element from some other song. For example, while mourning during a funeral rite, someone might want to recall a memory of collecting honey with the deceased, signalling this at an appropriate moment with a fragment of the \"we're collecting honey\" song. Imagine that such practices became common. Meaning-laden utterances would now have become subject to a distinctively linguistic creative principle — that of recursive embedding.\n\nMany scholars associate the evolutionary emergence of speech with profound social, sexual, political and cultural developments. One view is that primate-style dominance needed to give way to a more cooperative and egalitarian lifestyle of the kind characteristic of modern hunter-gatherers.\n\nAccording to Michael Tomasello, the key cognitive capacity distinguishing \"Homo sapiens\" from our ape cousins is \"intersubjectivity\". This entails turn-taking and role-reversal: your partner strives to read your mind, you simultaneously strive to read theirs, and each of you makes a conscious effort to assist the other in the process. The outcome is that each partner forms a representation of the other's mind in which their own can be discerned by reflection.\n\nTomasello argues that this kind of bi-directional cognition is central to the very possibility of linguistic communication. Drawing on his research with both children and chimpanzees, he reports that human infants, from one year old onwards, begin viewing their own mind as if from the standpoint of others. He describes this as a cognitive revolution. Chimpanzees, as they grow up, never undergo such a revolution. The explanation, according to Tomasello, is that their evolved psychology is adapted to a deeply competitive way of life. Wild-living chimpanzees form despotic social hierarchies, most interactions involving calculations of dominance and submission. An adult chimp will strive to outwit its rivals by guessing at their intentions while blocking them from reciprocating. Since bi-directional intersubjective communication is impossible under such conditions, the cognitive capacities necessary for language don't evolve.\n\nIn the scenario favoured by David Erdal and Andrew Whiten, primate-style dominance provoked equal and opposite coalitionary resistance — \"counter-dominance.\" During the course of human evolution, increasingly effective strategies of rebellion against dominant individuals led to a compromise. While abandoning any attempt to dominate others, group members vigorously asserted their personal autonomy, maintaining their alliances to make potentially dominant individuals think twice. Within increasingly stable coalitions, according to this perspective, status began to be earned in novel ways, social rewards accruing to those perceived by their peers as especially cooperative and self-aware.\n\nWhile counter-dominance, according to this evolutionary narrative, culminates in a stalemate, anthropologist Christopher Boehm extends the logic a step further. Counter-dominance tips over at last into full-scale \"reverse dominance\". The rebellious coalition decisively overthrows the figure of the primate alpha-male. No dominance is allowed except that of the self-organised community as a whole.\n\nAs a result of this social and political change, hunter-gatherer egalitarianism is established. As children grow up, they are motivated by those around them to reverse perspective, engaging with other minds on the model of their own. Selection pressures favour such psychological innovations as imaginative empathy, joint attention, moral judgment, project-oriented collaboration and the ability to evaluate one's own behaviour from the standpoint of others. Underpinning enhanced probabilities of cultural transmission and cumulative cultural evolution, these developments culminate in the establishment of hunter-gatherer-style egalitarianism in association with intersubjective communication and cognition. It is in this social and political context that language evolves.\n\nAccording to Dean Falk's \"putting the baby down\" theory, vocal interactions between early hominin mothers and infants sparked a sequence of events that led, eventually, to our ancestors' earliest words. The basic idea is that evolving human mothers, unlike their monkey and ape counterparts, couldn't move around and forage with their infants clinging onto their backs. Loss of fur in the human case left infants with no means of clinging on. Frequently, therefore, mothers had to put their babies down. As a result, these babies needed reassurance that they were not being abandoned. Mothers responded by developing \"motherese\" — an infant-directed communicative system embracing facial expressions, body language, touching, patting, caressing, laughter, tickling and emotionally expressive contact calls. The argument is that language somehow developed out of all this.\n\nWhile this theory may explain a certain kind of infant-directed \"protolanguage\" — known today as \"motherese\" — it does little to solve the really difficult problem, which is the emergence among adults of syntactical speech. \n\nEvolutionary anthropologist Sarah Hrdy observes that only human mothers among great apes are willing to let another individual take hold of their own babies; further, we are routinely willing to let others babysit. She identifies lack of trust as the major factor preventing chimp, bonobo or gorilla mothers from doing the same: \"If ape mothers insist on carrying their babies everywhere ... it is because the available alternatives are not safe enough.\" The fundamental problem is that ape mothers (unlike monkey mothers who may often babysit) do not have female relatives nearby. The strong implication is that, in the course of \"Homo\" evolution, allocare could develop because \"Homo\" mothers did have female kin close by — in the first place, most reliably, their own mothers. Extending the Grandmother hypothesis, Hrdy argues that evolving \"Homo erectus\" females necessarily relied on female kin initially; this novel situation in ape evolution of mother, infant and mother's mother as allocarer provided the evolutionary ground for the emergence of intersubjectivity. She relates this onset of \"cooperative breeding in an ape\" to shifts in life history and slower child development, linked to the change in brain and body size from the 2 million year mark.\n\nPrimatologist Klaus Zuberbühler uses these ideas to help explain the emergence of vocal flexibility in the human species. Co-operative breeding would have compelled infants to struggle actively to gain the attention of caregivers, not all of whom would have been directly related. A basic primate repertoire of vocal signals may have been insufficient for this social challenge. Natural selection, according to this view, would have favoured babies with advanced vocal skills, beginning with babbling (which triggers positive responses in care-givers) and paving the way for the elaborate and unique speech abilities of modern humans.\n\nThese ideas might be linked to those of the renowned structural linguist Roman Jakobson, who claimed that \"the sucking activities of the child are accompanied by a slight nasal murmur, the only phonation to be produced when the lips are pressed to the mother's breast ... and the mouth is full\". He proposed that later in the infant's development, \"this phonatory reaction to nursing is reproduced as an anticipatory signal at the mere sight of food and finally as a manifestation of a desire to eat, or more generally, as an expression of discontent and impatient longing for missing food or absent nurser, and any ungranted wish.\" So, the action of opening and shutting the mouth, combined with the production of a nasal sound when the lips are closed, yielded the sound sequence \"Mama\", which may therefore count as the very first word. Peter MacNeilage sympathetically discusses this theory in his major book, The \"Origin of Speech\", linking it with Dean Falk's \"putting the baby down\" theory (see above). Needless to say, other scholars have suggested completely different candidates for \"Homo sapiens\"' very first word.\n\nWhile the biological language faculty is genetically inherited, actual languages or dialects are culturally transmitted, as are social norms, technological traditions and so forth. Biologists expect a robust co-evolutionary trajectory linking human genetic evolution with the evolution of culture. Individuals capable of rudimentary forms of protolanguage would have enjoyed enhanced access to cultural understandings, while these, conveyed in ways that young brains could readily learn, would in turn have become transmitted with increasing efficiency.\n\nIn some ways like beavers as they construct their dams, humans have always engaged in niche construction, creating novel environments to which they subsequently become adapted. Selection pressures associated with prior niches tend to become relaxed as humans depend increasingly on novel environments created continuously by their own productive activities. According to Steven Pinker, language is an adaptation to \"the cognitive niche\". Variations on the theme of ritual/speech co-evolution — according to which speech evolved for purposes of internal communication within a ritually constructed domain — have attempted to specify more precisely when, why and how this special niche was created by human collaborative activity.\n\n The Swiss scholar Ferdinand de Saussure founded linguistics as a twentieth-century professional discipline. Saussure regarded a language as a rule-governed system, much like a board game such as chess. In order to understand chess, he insisted, we must ignore such external factors as the weather prevailing during a particular session or the material composition of this or that piece. The game is autonomous with respect to its material embodiments. In the same way, when studying language, it's essential to focus on its internal structure as a social institution. External matters (\"e.g.\", the shape of the human tongue) are irrelevant from this standpoint. Saussure regarded 'speaking' \"(parole)\" as individual, ancillary and more or less accidental by comparison with \"language\" \"(langue)\", which he viewed as collective, systematic and essential.\n\nSaussure showed little interest in Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection. Nor did he consider it worthwhile to speculate about how language might originally have evolved. Saussure's assumptions in fact cast doubt on the validity of narrowly conceived origins scenarios. His structuralist paradigm, when accepted in its original form, turns scholarly attention to a wider problem: how our species acquired the capacity to establish social institutions in general.\n\n In the United States, prior to and immediately following World War II, the dominant psychological paradigm was behaviourism. Within this conceptual framework, language was seen as a certain kind of behaviour — namely, verbal behaviour, to be studied much like any other kind of behaviour in the animal world. Rather as a laboratory rat learns how to find its way through an artificial maze, so a human child learns the verbal behaviour of the society into which it is born. The phonological, grammatical and other complexities of speech are in this sense \"external\" phenomena, inscribed into an initially unstructured brain. Language's emergence in \"Homo sapiens,\" from this perspective, presents no special theoretical challenge. Human behaviour, whether verbal or otherwise, illustrates the malleable nature of the mammalian — and especially the human — brain.\n\nNativism is the theory that humans are born with certain specialised cognitive modules enabling us to acquire highly complex bodies of knowledge such as the grammar of a language.\n\nFrom the mid-1950s onwards, Noam Chomsky, Jerry Fodor and others mounted what they conceptualised as a 'revolution' against behaviourism. Retrospectively, this became labelled 'the cognitive revolution'. Whereas behaviourism had denied the scientific validity of the concept of \"mind\", Chomsky replied that, in fact, the concept of \"body\" is more problematic. Behaviourists tended to view the child's brain as a \"tabula rasa\", initially lacking structure or cognitive content. According to B. F. Skinner, for example, richness of behavioural detail (whether verbal or non-verbal) emanated from the environment. Chomsky turned this idea on its head. The linguistic environment encountered by a young child, according to Chomsky's version of psychological nativism, is in fact hopelessly inadequate. No child could possibly acquire the complexities of grammar from such an impoverished source. Far from viewing language as wholly external, Chomsky re-conceptualised it as wholly internal. To explain how a child so rapidly and effortlessly acquires its natal language, he insisted, we must conclude that it comes into the world with the essentials of grammar already pre-installed. No other species, according to Chomsky, is genetically equipped with a language faculty — or indeed with anything remotely like one. The emergence of such a faculty in \"Homo sapiens\", from this standpoint, presents biological science with a major theoretical challenge.\n\nOne way to explain biological complexity is by reference to its inferred function. According to the influential philosopher John Austin, speech's primary function is action in the social world.\n\nSpeech acts, according to this body of theory, can be analysed on three different levels: locutionary, illocutionary and perlocutionary. An act is \"locutionary\" when viewed as the production of certain linguistic sounds — for example, practicing correct pronunciation in a foreign language. An act is \"illocutionary\" insofar as it constitutes an intervention in the world as jointly perceived or understood. Promising, marrying, divorcing, declaring, stating, authorising, announcing and so forth are all speech acts in this \"illocutionary\" sense. An act is \"perlocutionary\" when viewed in terms of its direct psychological effect on an audience. Frightening a baby by saying 'Boo!' would be an example of a \"perlocutionary\" act.\n\nFor Austin, \"doing things\" with words means, first and foremost, deploying \"illocutionary\" force. The secret of this is community participation or collusion. There must be a 'correct' (conventionally agreed) procedure, and all those concerned must accept that it has been properly followed. In the case of a priest declaring a couple to be man and wife, his words will have illocutionary force only if he is properly authorised and only if the ceremony is properly conducted, using words deemed appropriate to the occasion. Austin points out that should anyone attempt to baptize a penguin, the act would be null and void. For reasons which have nothing to do with physics, chemistry or biology, baptism is inappropriate to be applied to penguins, irrespective of the verbal formulation used.\n\nThis body of theory may have implications for speculative scenarios concerning the origins of speech. \"Doing things with words\" presupposes shared understandings and agreements pertaining not just to language but to social conduct more generally. Apes might produce sequences of structured sound, influencing one another in that way. To deploy \"illocutionary\" force, however, they would need to have entered a non-physical and non-biological realm — one of shared contractual and other intangibles. This novel cognitive domain consists of what philosophers term \"institutional facts\" — objective facts whose existence, paradoxically, depends on communal faith or belief. Few primatologists, evolutionary psychologists or anthropologists consider that nonhuman primates are capable of the necessary levels of joint attention, sustained commitment or collaboration in pursuit of future goals.\n\nBiosemiotics is a relatively new discipline, inspired in large part by the discovery of the genetic code in the early 1960s. Its basic assumption is that \"Homo sapiens\" is not alone in its reliance on codes and signs. Language and symbolic culture must have biological roots, hence semiotic principles must apply also in the animal world.\n\nThe discovery of the molecular structure of DNA apparently contradicted the idea that life could be explained, ultimately, in terms of the fundamental laws of physics. The letters of the genetic alphabet seemed to have \"meaning\", yet meaning is not a concept which has any place in physics. The natural science community initially solved this difficulty by invoking the concept of \"information\", treating information as independent of meaning. But a different solution to the puzzle was to recall that the laws of physics in themselves are never sufficient to explain natural phenomena. To explain, say, the unique physical and chemical characteristics of the planets in our solar system, scientists must work out how the laws of physics became constrained by particular sequences of events following the formation of the Sun.\n\nAccording to Howard Pattee — a pioneering figure in biosemiotics — the same principle applies to the evolution of life on earth, a process in which certain \"frozen accidents\" or \"natural constraints\" have from time to time drastically reduced the number of possible evolutionary outcomes. Codes, when they prove to be stable over evolutionary time, are constraints of this kind. The most fundamental such \"frozen accident\" was the emergence of DNA as a self-replicating molecule, but the history of life on earth has been characterised by a succession of comparably dramatic events, each of which can be conceptualised as the emergence of a new code. From this perspective, the evolutionary emergence of spoken language was one more event of essentially the same kind.\n\nIn 1975, the Israeli theoretical biologist Amotz Zahavi proposed a novel theory which, although controversial, has come to dominate Darwinian thinking on how signals evolve. Zahavi's \"handicap principle\" states that to be effective, signals must be reliable; to be reliable, the bodily investment in them must be so high as to make cheating unprofitable.\n\nParadoxically, if this logic is accepted, signals in nature evolve not to be efficient but, on the contrary, to be elaborate and wasteful of time and energy. A peacock's tail is the classic illustration. Zahavi's theory is that since peahens are on the look-out for male braggarts and cheats, they insist on a display of quality so costly that only a genuinely fit peacock could afford to pay. Needless to say, not all signals in the animal world are quite as elaborate as a peacock's tail. But if Zahavi is correct, all require some bodily investment — an expenditure of time and energy which \"handicaps\" the signaller in some way.\n\nAnimal vocalisations (according to Zahavi) are reliable because they are faithful reflections of the state of the signaller's body. To switch from an honest to a deceitful call, the animal would have to adopt a different bodily posture. Since every bodily action has its own optimal starting position, changing that position to produce a false message would interfere with the task of carrying out the action really intended. The gains made by cheating would not make up for the losses incurred by assuming an improper posture — and so the phony message turns out to be not worth its price. This may explain, in particular, why ape and monkey vocal signals have evolved to be so strikingly inflexible when compared with the varied speech sounds produced by the human tongue. The apparent inflexibility of chimpanzee vocalisations may strike the human observer as surprising until we realise that being inflexible is necessarily bound up with being perceptibly honest in the sense of \"hard-to-fake\".\n\nIf we accept this theory, the emergence of speech becomes theoretically impossible. Communication of this kind just cannot evolve. The problem is that words are cheap. Nothing about their acoustic features can reassure listeners that they are genuine and not fakes. Any strategy of reliance on someone else's tongue — perhaps the most flexible organ in the body — presupposes unprecedented levels of honesty and trust. To date, Darwinian thinkers have found it difficult to explain the requisite levels of community-wide cooperation and trust.\n\nAn influential standard textbook is \"Animal Signals,\" by John Maynard Smith and David Harper. These authors divide the costs of communication into two components, (1) the investment necessary to ensure transmission of a discernible signal; (2) the investment necessary to guarantee that each signal is reliable and not a fake. The authors point out that although costs in the second category may be relatively low, they are not zero. Even in relatively relaxed, cooperative social contexts — for example, when communication is occurring between genetic kin — some investment must be made to guarantee reliability. In short, the notion of super-efficient communication — eliminating all costs except those necessary for successful transmission — is biologically unrealistic. Yet speech comes precisely into this category.\n\nCognitive linguistics views linguistic structure as arising continuously out of usage. Speakers are forever discovering new ways to convey meanings by producing sounds, and in some cases these novel strategies become conventionalised. Between phonological structure and semantic structure there is no causal relationship. Instead, each novel pairing of sound and meaning involves an imaginative leap.\n\nIn their book, \"Metaphors We Live By,\" George Lakoff and Mark Johnson helped pioneer this approach, claiming that \"metaphor\" is what makes human thought special. All language, they argued, is permeated with metaphor, whose use in fact \"constitutes\" distinctively human — that is, distinctively abstract — thought. To conceptualise things which cannot be directly perceived — intangibles such as time, life, reason, mind, society or justice — we have no choice but to set out from more concrete and directly perceptible phenomena such as motion, location, distance, size and so forth. In all cultures across the world, according to Lakoff and Johnson, people resort to such familiar metaphors as \"ideas are locations, thinking is moving\" and \"mind is body\". For example, we might express the idea of \"arriving at a crucial point in our argument\" by proceeding as if literally travelling from one physical location to the next.\n\nMetaphors, by definition, are not literally true. Strictly speaking, they are fictions — from a pedantic standpoint, even falsehoods. But if we couldn't resort to metaphorical fictions, it's doubtful whether we could even form conceptual representations of such nebulous phenomena as \"ideas\", thoughts\", \"minds\", and so forth.\n\nThe bearing of these ideas on current thinking on speech origins remains unclear. One suggestion is that ape communication tends to resist metaphor for social reasons. Since they inhabit a Darwinian (as opposed to morally regulated) social world, these animals are under strong competitive pressure \"not\" to accept patent fictions as valid communicative currency. Ape vocal communication tends to be inflexible, marginalising the ultra-flexible tongue, precisely because listeners treat with suspicion any signal which might prove to be a fake. Such insistence on perceptible veracity is clearly incompatible with metaphoric usage. An implication is that neither articulate speech nor distinctively human abstract thought could have begun evolving until our ancestors had become more cooperative and trusting of one another's communicative intentions.\n\nWhen people converse with one another, according to the American philosopher John Searle, they're making moves, not in the real world which other species inhabit, but in a shared virtual realm peculiar to ourselves. Unlike the deployment of muscular effort to move a physical object, the deployment of illocutionary force requires no physical effort (except movement of the tongue/mouth to produce speech) and produces no effect which any measuring device could detect. Instead, our action takes place on a quite different level — that of \"social\" reality. This kind of reality is in one sense hallucinatory, being a product of collective intentionality. It consists, not of \"brute facts\" — facts which exist anyway, irrespective of anyone's belief — but of \"institutional facts\", which \"exist\" only if you believe in them. Government, marriage, citizenship and money are examples of \"institutional facts\". One can distinguish between \"brute\" facts and \"institutional\" ones by applying a simple test. Suppose no one believed in the fact — would it still be true? If the answer is \"yes\", it's \"brute\". If the answer is \"no\", it's \"institutional\".\n\nThe facts of language in general and of speech in particular are, from this perspective, \"institutional\" rather than \"brute\". The semantic meaning of a word, for example, is whatever its users imagine it to be. To \"do things with words\" is to operate in a virtual world which seems real because we share it in common. In this incorporeal world, the laws of physics, chemistry and biology do not apply. That explains why illocutionary force can be deployed without exerting muscular effort. Apes and monkeys inhabit the \"brute\" world. To make an impact, they must scream, bark, threaten, seduce or in other ways invest bodily effort. If they were invited to play chess, they would be unable to resist throwing their pieces at one another. Speech is not like that. A few movements of the tongue, under appropriate conditions, can be sufficient to open parliament, annul a marriage, confer a knighthood or declare war. To explain, on a Darwinian basis, how such apparent magic first began to work, we must ask how, when and why \"Homo sapiens\" succeeded in establishing the wider domain of institutional facts.\n\n\"Brute facts\", in the terminology of speech act philosopher John Searle, are facts which are true anyway, regardless of human belief. Suppose you don't believe in gravity: jump over a cliff and you'll still fall. Natural science is the study of facts of this kind. \"Institutional facts\" are fictions accorded factual status within human social institutions. Monetary and commercial facts are fictions of this kind. The complexities of today's global currency system are facts only while we believe in them: suspend the belief and the facts correspondingly dissolve. Yet although institutional facts rest on human belief, that doesn't make them mere distortions or hallucinations. Take my confidence that these two five-pound banknotes in my pocket are worth ten pounds. That's not merely my subjective belief: it's an objective, indisputable fact. But now imagine a collapse of public confidence in the currency system. Suddenly, the realities in my pocket dissolve.\n\nScholars who doubt the scientific validity of the notion of \"institutional facts\" include Noam Chomsky, for whom language is not social. In Chomsky's view, language is a natural object (a component of the individual brain) and its study, therefore, a branch of natural science. In explaining the origin of language, scholars in this intellectual camp invoke non-social developments — in Chomsky's case, a random genetic mutation. Chomsky argues that language might exist inside the brain of a single mutant gorilla even if no one else believed in it, even if no one else existed apart from the mutant — and even if the gorilla in question remained unaware of its existence, never actually speaking. In the opposite philosophical camp are those who, in the tradition of Ferdinand de Saussure, argue that if no one believed in words or rules, they simply would not exist. These scholars, correspondingly, regard language as essentially institutional, concluding that linguistics should be considered a topic within social science. In explaining the evolutionary emergence of language, scholars in this intellectual camp tend to invoke profound changes in social relationships.\n\nCriticism. Darwinian scientists today see little value in the traditional distinction between \"natural\" and \"social\" science. Darwinism in its modern form is the study of cooperation and competition in nature — a topic which is intrinsically social. Against this background, there is an increasing awareness among evolutionary linguists and Darwinian anthropologists that traditional inter-disciplinary barriers can have damaging consequences for investigations into the origins of speech.\n\n"}
{"id": "23193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23193", "title": "Philology", "text": "Philology\n\nPhilology is the study of language in oral and written historical sources; it is the intersection between textual criticism, literary criticism, history, and linguistics. Philology is more commonly defined as the study of literary texts as well as oral and written records, the establishment of their authenticity and their original form, and the determination of their meaning. A person who pursues this kind of study is known as a philologist.\n\nIn older usage, especially British, philology is more general, covering comparative and historical linguistics.\n\nClassical philology studies classical languages. Classical philology principally originated from the Library of Pergamum and the Library of Alexandria around the fourth century BCE, continued by Greeks and Romans throughout the Roman/Byzantine Empire. It was preserved and promoted during the Islamic Golden Age, and eventually resumed by European scholars of the Renaissance, where it was soon joined by philologies of other non-Asian (European) (Germanic, Celtic), Eurasian (Slavistics, etc.) and Asian (Arabic, Persian, Sanskrit, Chinese, etc.) languages. Indo-European studies involves the comparative philology of all Indo-European languages.\n\nPhilology, with its focus on historical development (diachronic analysis), is contrasted with linguistics due to Ferdinand de Saussure's insistence on the importance of synchronic analysis. The contrast continued with the emergence of structuralism and Chomskyan linguistics alongside its emphasis on syntax.\nThe term \"philology\" is derived from the Greek (\"philología\"), from the terms (\"phílos\") \"love, affection, loved, beloved, dear, friend\" and (\"lógos\") \"word, articulation, reason\", describing a love of learning, of literature, as well as of argument and reasoning, reflecting the range of activities included under the notion of . The term changed little with the Latin \"philologia\", and later entered the English language in the 16th century, from the Middle French \"philologie\", in the sense of \"love of literature\".\n\nThe adjective (\"philólogos\") meant \"fond of discussion or argument, talkative\", in Hellenistic Greek, also implying an excessive (\"sophistic\") preference of argument over the love of true wisdom, (\"philósophos\").\n\nAs an allegory of literary erudition, \"philologia\" appears in fifth-century postclassical literature (Martianus Capella, \"De nuptiis Philologiae et Mercurii\"), an idea revived in Late Medieval literature (Chaucer, Lydgate).\n\nThe meaning of \"love of learning and literature\" was narrowed to \"the study of the historical development of languages\" (historical linguistics) in 19th-century usage of the term. Due to the rapid progress made in understanding sound laws and language change, the \"golden age of philology\" lasted throughout the 19th century, or \"from Giacomo Leopardi and Friedrich Schlegel to Nietzsche\". In the Anglo-Saxon world, the term philology to describe work on languages and literatures, which had become synonymous with the practices of German scholars, was abandoned as a consequence of anti-German feeling following World War I. Most continental European countries still maintain the term to designate departments, colleges, position titles, and journals. J. R. R. Tolkien opposed the nationalist reaction against philological practices, claiming that \"the philological instinct\" was \"universal as is the use of language\". In British English usage, and in British academia, \"philology\" remains largely synonymous with \"historical linguistics\", while in US English, and US academia, the wider meaning of \"study of a language's grammar, history and literary tradition\" remains more widespread. Based on the harsh critique of Friedrich Nietzsche, US scholars since the 1980s have viewed philology as responsible for a narrowly scientistic study of language and literature.\n\nThe comparative linguistics branch of philology studies the relationship between languages. Similarities between Sanskrit and European languages were first noted in the early 16th century and led to speculation of a common ancestor language from which all these descended. It is now named Proto-Indo-European. Philology's interest in ancient languages led to the study of what were, in the 18th century, \"exotic\" languages, for the light they could cast on problems in understanding and deciphering the origins of older texts.\n\nPhilology also includes the study of texts and their history. It includes elements of textual criticism, trying to reconstruct an author's original text based on variant copies of manuscripts. This branch of research arose among Ancient scholars in the 4th century BC Greek-speaking world, who desired to establish a standard text of popular authors for the purposes of both sound interpretation and secure transmission. Since that time, the original principles of textual criticism have been improved and applied to other widely distributed texts such as the Bible. Scholars have tried to reconstruct the original readings of the Bible from the manuscript variants. This method was applied to Classical Studies and to medieval texts as a way to reconstruct the author's original work. The method produced so-called \"critical editions\", which provided a reconstructed text accompanied by a \"critical apparatus\", i.e., footnotes that listed the various manuscript variants available, enabling scholars to gain insight into the entire manuscript tradition and argue about the variants.\n\nA related study method known as higher criticism studies the authorship, date, and provenance of text to place such text in historical context. As these philological issues are often inseparable from issues of interpretation, there is no clear-cut boundary between philology and hermeneutics. When text has a significant political or religious influence (such as the reconstruction of Biblical texts), scholars have difficulty reaching objective conclusions.\n\nSome scholars avoid all critical methods of textual philology, especially in historical linguistics, where it is important to study the actual recorded materials. The movement known as New Philology has rejected textual criticism because it injects editorial interpretations into the text and destroys the integrity of the individual manuscript, hence damaging the reliability of the data. Supporters of New Philology insist on a strict \"diplomatic\" approach: a faithful rendering of the text exactly as found in the manuscript, without emendations.\n\nAnother branch of philology, cognitive philology, studies written and oral texts. Cognitive philology considers these oral texts as the results of human mental processes. This science compares the results of textual science with the results of experimental research of both psychology and artificial intelligence production systems.\n\nIn the case of Bronze Age literature, philology includes the prior decipherment of the language under study. This has notably been the case with the Egyptian, Sumerian, Assyrian, Hittite, Ugaritic and Luwian languages. Beginning with the famous decipherment and translation of the Rosetta Stone by Jean-François Champollion in 1822, a number of individuals attempted to decipher the writing systems of the Ancient Near East and Aegean. In the case of Old Persian and Mycenaean Greek, decipherment yielded older records of languages already known from slightly more recent traditions (Middle Persian and Alphabetic Greek).\n\nWork on the ancient languages of the Near East progressed rapidly. In the mid-19th century, Henry Rawlinson and others deciphered the Behistun Inscription, which records the same text in Old Persian, Elamite, and Akkadian, using a variation of cuneiform for each language. The elucidation of cuneiform led to the decipherment of Sumerian. Hittite was deciphered in 1915 by Bedřich Hrozný.\n\nLinear B, a script used in the ancient Aegean, was deciphered in 1952 by Michael Ventris and John Chadwick, who demonstrated that it recorded an early form of Greek, now known as Mycenaean Greek. Linear A, the writing system that records the still-unknown language of the Minoans, resists deciphering, despite many attempts.\n\nWork continues on scripts such as the Maya, with great progress since the initial breakthroughs of the phonetic approach championed by Yuri Knorozov and others in the 1950s. Since the late 20th century, the Maya code has been almost completely deciphered, and the Mayan languages are among the most documented and studied in Mesoamerica. The code is described as a logosyllabic style of writing, which could be used to fully express any spoken thought.\n\nIn the \"Space Trilogy\" by C.S. Lewis, the main character, Elwin Ransom, is a philologist - as was Lewis' close friend J. R. R. Tolkien.\n\nDr. Edward Morbius, one of the main characters in the science-fiction film \"Forbidden Planet\", is a philologist.\n\nMoritz-Maria von Igelfeld, the main character in Alexander McCall Smith's 1997 comic novel \"Portuguese Irregular Verbs\" is a philologist, educated at Cambridge.\n\nThe main character in the Academy Award Nominee for Best Foreign Language film in 2012, \"Footnote\", is a Hebrew philologist, and a significant part of the film deals with his work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52733754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52733754", "title": "Proto-Tupian language", "text": "Proto-Tupian language\n\nProto-Tupian (PT) is the linguistic reconstruction of the common ancestor of all the Tupian languages. It consists, therefore, of a hypothetic language, reconstructed by the comparative method from data of the descendant languages. In Brazil, the historical-comparative studies are being developed mainly by two scientific teams: one from the Laboratório de Línguas Indígenas (LALI) of the University of Brasília, under the coordination of Aryon Rodrigues; and the other one from the Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi, located in Belém, under the orientation of Denny Moore. The studies are showing several important evidences about the Proto-Tupi culture (demonstrating, for example, that the ancestors of the Tupi peoples already dedicated to agriculture) <br>\nThe most accepted theory is that the Tupian language family was originated between the Guaporé and Aripuanã rivers, in the Madeira River basin. Right now, there are almost 70 living Tupian languages, including Tupi, Paraguayan Guarani, Awetï, Ayvu, etc.\n\nRodrigues (2007) considers the Proto-Tupian urheimat to be somewhere between the Guaporé and Aripuanã rivers, in the Madeira River basin. Much of this area corresponds to the modern-day state of Rondônia, Brazil. 5 of the 10 Tupian branches are found in this area, as well as some Tupi–Guarani languages (especially Kawahíb), making it the probable urheimat of these languages and maybe of its speaking peoples. Rodrigues believes that PT dates back to around 5,000 B.P.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24196925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24196925", "title": "Robert Machin", "text": "Robert Machin\n\nRobert Machin or Machim (fl. 14th century) was an English adventurer of uncertain historicity, who supposedly discovered the island of Madeira. Various traditions give conflicting versions of Machin's story.\n\nIn the best-known version the protagonist is a knight, and referred to as the Machim. He was an English aristocrat who traded on the Mediterranean, and fell in love with a woman by the name of Anne d'Arfet. Her original name could have been Dorset, Darbey or Hertford; after the story was transmitted through foreign languages it is no longer clear. Anne was of a higher social standing than Robert, and the two had to elope from the town of Bristol. Their ship is driven away from the coast of France by a storm, and after thirteen days they see the island of Madeira, where they land. At this point, however, Anne dies from exhaustion, and Robert follows her few days later. The crew of the ship make it to North Africa, where they are captured by the Moors. One of their fellow prisoners, called Morales of Seville, is ransomed and sent back to Castile, but on the way back he is captured by a servant of Prince Henry the Navigator of Portugal. When Prince Henry hears of the story he promptly sends out an expedition that finds the island of Madeira.\n\nThis version of the story was supposedly written down by a member of Prince Henry's household, and became the basis for several later versions. It is known to date back at least to 1579. Another tradition is probably older, and can be traced back to 1507. In this version, Machin survives his lover, and builds an oratory over her grave. He makes it off the island and eventually ends up at the royal court of Castile. Finally, a third version tells of a French merchant by the name of il Macino. This adventurer, known from the writings of Giulio Landi, differs from the other two in two senses: he has no mistress, and he later returns to colonise the island.\n\nThough it is unknown whether the story of Machin is true, the island still carries a reminder of him in the name of the city Machico, which supposedly was named after him. It is certain that the discovery of Madeira predates the Portuguese settlement, as it appears on maps as early as 1339. In 1419 João Gonçalves Zarco landed on the island, and colonised it for Portugal.\n"}
{"id": "31471623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31471623", "title": "Society for Natural Language Technology Research", "text": "Society for Natural Language Technology Research\n\nThe Society for Natural Language Technology Research (abbr. as SNLTR) is an organization that promotes research in Corpus Linguistics, Computational Linguistics and Natural Language Processing in Bengali language. Among its primary goals are creation and archiving of a fully Unicode-compatible Bengali literary corpus to be hosted and published online, as well as the creation of fonts that will help people type Bengali text with ease.\n\nEnglish is still the primary medium of interaction with computers. Consequently, a large section of the population in India is not able to reap the benefits of the technology. Though the issue of localization of interface has been discussed in different forum, the goal is yet to be achieved.\n\nIn spite of the fact that desktop publishing has come of age for Bengali and other Indian languages and there are several software available for Bengali, the problem persists due to the absence of i) standardization of Bengali encoding, ii) encoding compliant font design, iii) availability of compliant keyboard layouts etc. The lack of adherence to standard does not allow the computing activities in Indian languages to be inter-operable across computing platforms.\n\nIn order to make the computing activities Bengali compatible, it is essential to establish a proper standard. Though a number of organizations have taken up language processing activities, the necessity of establishing proper coherence among them is very much felt, in order to deliver useful products.\n\nLanguage Technology research has to focus on two components, written text as well as spoken language .Besides text processing, speech generation and recognition are two very important areas in which research and development have to be focused. This development will not only result in more natural human-computer interfaces, but will also empower the physically challenged like those with speech impairment and visual impairment, to benefit from computer technology.\n\nThe Society for Natural Language Technology Research has been formed to address the above-mentioned requirements. The society has been seeded by the Government of West Bengal (Dept. of Information Technology) with initial funding and support. Operationally, the society aims to carry out its activities in a multipolar manner, involving other academic and research institutes as well as industries.\n\nData Representation and Encoding Standard: Society for Natural Language Technology Research has decided to accept UNICODE 5.0 and upwards as the standard for data representation and encoding for Bengali.\n\n\nThe immediate goals of the society are:\n\n Administrator\n\n\nPatrons and Advisers:\n\n\nPresident:\n\n\nVice President:\n\n\nDirector (Hon):\n\n\nSecretary cum Treasurer:\n\n\nMembers:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29106671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29106671", "title": "Special Services (entertainment)", "text": "Special Services (entertainment)\n\nSpecial Services was the entertainment branch of the American military. The unit was created on 22 July 1940 by the War Department as part of the Army Service Forces. Special Services not only used their own specially trained and talented troops but also would often engage local performers.\n\nSpecial Services were one of the few U.S. Army units to be integrated during World War II. Special Services opened their first Recreational Officer school at Fort Meade Maryland on 1 April 1942.\n\nMilitary Occupational Specialties of the Special Services were as follows-\n\n\nThe Special Services Division, the forerunner of today's Special Services Branch, was formed on 1 March 1943. Its mission was to provide recreational and informational services to Marine Corps personnel for the purpose of maintaining morale. \n\nThe MOS 9913, Special Services Officer supervises and coordinates special services activities involved with command morale, welfare, and recreation programs.\n"}
{"id": "13072930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13072930", "title": "Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast", "text": "Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast\n\n\"Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast\" is an essay by Tom Wolfe that appeared in the November 1989 issue of \"Harper's Magazine\" criticizing the American literary establishment for retreating from realism.\n\nAfter being serialized in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, Wolfe's first novel, \"The Bonfire of the Vanities\" was published in 1987. Prior to the novel, Wolfe had made his career as a journalist and author of non-fiction books. Wolfe had been a pioneer of \"New Journalism,\" a style of non-fiction that relied heavily on novelistic techniques such as the use of scene, dialogue, first-person point of view from the subjects of the stories and recording minute details of everyday routine.\n\nIn his novel, \"Bonfire of the Vanities\", Wolfe used many of the writing techniques in his journalism, but this time to tell what Wolfe called a \"fictional novel\" (though novel traditionally denotes fiction and is hence redundant, Wolfe's \"New Journalism\" was sometimes described as non-fiction novels). In addition, Wolfe set out in \"Bonfire\" to capture the spirit of New York City in the 1980s. The book was a commercial success, becoming a New York Times Bestseller and earning critical praise.\n\nIn his \"Harper's\" essay, Wolfe (at the time a contributing editor of the magazine) argues that American authors had strayed far from the tradition of realism seen in the writing of giants of American literature like Ernest Hemingway, William Faulkner and John Steinbeck.\n\nWolfe uses his own writing to illustrate his point: when he wrote \"The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test\", he expected a novelist to write a great fictional tale about the hippie movement; after writing \"Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers\", about racial strife in cities in the '60s and '70s, he expected great novels to follow suit; after \"The Right Stuff\", he expected a novel about astronauts and NASA. Wolfe says that, to his surprise, great novels on these cultural movements never arrived:\n\nPublishers, \"Had their noses pressed against their thermopane glass walls scanning the billion-footed city for the approach of the young novelists who, surely, would bring them the big novels of the racial clashes, the hippie movement, the New Left, the Wall Street boom, the sexual revolution, the war in Vietnam. But such creatures, it seemed, no longer existed. The strange fact of the matter was that young people with serious literary ambitions were no longer interested in the metropolis or any other big, rich slices of contemporary life.\"\n\nWolfe places the split from realism at 1960; after which the literary establishment turned to absurdist novels, magical realism, minimalism, postmodernism and foreign writers, \"the gods of the new breed.\" Wolfe singles out Milan Kundera, Jorge Luis Borges, Samuel Beckett, Vladimir Nabokov, Harold Pinter, Italo Calvino and Gabriel Garcia Marquez as exemplars of this new obsession. Wolfe sees these trends as the novel sliding into irrelevancy. Wolfe concludes that authors must return to realism, \"If fiction writers do not start facing the obvious, the literary history of the second half of the twentieth century will record that journalists not only took over the richness of American life as their domain but also seized the high ground of literature itself.\"\n\nWolfe's essay caused an uproar among writers, literary critics and journalists. Three months after the essay appeared, author Robert Towers wrote in \"The New York Times\", \"I cannot offhand recall an article in a small magazine making a bigger splash in the literary pool than Tom Wolfe's manifesto...\" For months after the essay, Wolfe appeared on television and on the lecture circuit defending and debating his thesis. While some critics agreed with Wolfe, others took issue with his essay, stating that he essentially had argued that other writers need to be more like himself.\n\nCritics also noted that while many authors wrote the sorts of books Wolfe criticized, there were countless authors like Don DeLillo or John le Carré, Louise Erdrich or Toni Morrison, who wrote realism and were critically praised. \"The Times\" described the essay as \"one part serious argument with two parts calculated provocation,\" noting that the essay had helped continue discussion (and boost sales) of \"Bonfire of the Vanities\". Others were outright dismissive, with author Jim Harrison opining that Wolfe's ideas were \"the Babbitry of art in a new, white suit.\"\n\nWolfe wrote later works in the genre of \"fictional novels,\" 1998's \"A Man in Full\" and 2004's \"I Am Charlotte Simmons\". The essay launched a feud between Wolfe and other prominent literary figures that never ended. In 2000, he called John Irving, John Updike and Norman Mailer, \"the three stooges\" in response to their criticisms of his novels. Irving, for example, had dismissed Wolfe's work as \"yak\" and \"journalistic hyperbole.\" Similar name-calling surrounded the release of \"I Am Charlotte Simmons\". The essay was also cited and critiqued in Jonathan Franzen's essay \"Perchance to Dream\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33086928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33086928", "title": "The Anglo Mexican Foundation", "text": "The Anglo Mexican Foundation\n\nThe Anglo Mexican Foundation is a not for profit educational organization located in Mexico with its main offices in Colonia San Rafael in Mexico City. Its main activities are associated with English language teaching, examination preparation, teacher training, scholarships for teachers and cultural activities. The Foundation began as the Instituto Anglo Mexicano de Cultura A.C. in 1943 with the aim of strengthening ties between Mexico and Great Britain through cultural exchange. The Foundation took on its current name in 2003, which was accompanied by a reorganization.\n\nMost of the instruction associated with the Foundation is through The Anglo, which gives classes in the English language, standardized test preparation and teacher training. English language teaching has been the main activity of the foundation with The Anglo operating for over sixty-eight years. Most of its success comes from the quality and commitment of its teachers and staff. Some of these courses include in house classes or general language and standardized test preparation and specialty courses for businesses. Teacher training and scholarship programs mainly focus on the professional development of Mexican national teachers of English. Programs offered to these teachers include pre service courses such as The Pre school Teaching Course, The Primary Teaching Course and The Teacher Training Course. Some of the in-service courses for teachers are The In-Service Teacher Training Course and The Teacher Development Course. It is worth mentioning that several of these courses have recognition by SEP.\n\nThe Anglo is also the largest authorized Cambridge ESOL exam centre in Mexico. Cambridge ESOL, offers the world’s leading range of certificates for learners of English. The tests offered by its Centre of Exams Unit are designed at all levels of English from the (KET) for the basic level, the Preliminary English Test (PET) for intermediate, the First Certificate in English (FCE) for upper-intermediate, the Certificate in Advanced English (CAE) for advanced learners and the Certificate of Proficiency in English (CPE) for those candidates with a very advanced level of English.\n\nIn 1998, the Foundation established The Churchill School and in 2003 The Churchill College. The School provides education for students from kindergarten through primary/middle school. The College focuses on high school/preparatory students. These schools are bilingual with an international focus and are members of the International Baccalaureate Organisation (IB).\n\nSince 1943, the Foundation has supported cultural events with the purpose of strengthening ties between Mexico and Great Britain. These include music, theater, dance, visual arts, cinema and conferences. The Foundation also develops cultural materials for both its own and other schools, which occur both in Mexico and the United Kingdom. The Foundation sponsors regularly occurring film events with a schedule available online. Cultural and educational exchanges include representing the GAP Project in Mexico, and offering scholarships as part of the United World Colleges program. Selected candidates complete the English Language Scholarships in different places in the world.\n\nIn 2010, the “An encounter with Bob Geldof” conference was held at the National Auditorium. Geldof was accompanied by José Areán, an internationally recognized Mexican musician. Another event in the same year was the presentation of a compilation of letters written in the 19th century about Mexico by Scotswoman Fanny Calderón de la Barca. This was a joint event between the Foundation and the Instituto Nacional de Bellas Artes .\n\nIn 2011, cultural offering include readings by Welsh writer Owen Sheers and recitals by pianist Ann Martin-Davis and mezzo-soprano Susan Legg. In collaboration with the Museo Nacional de Arte, the Foundation presents the documentary “No Distance Left to Run” by Will Lovelace and Dylan Southern. With theatre magazine “Paso de Gato,” the Foundation sponsored an event dedicated to English theatre inviting critics such as Aleks Sierz of In-yer-face theatre, Scottish critic Mark Fisher and Michael Billington, a critic based in London. The event was dedicated analyzing British theatre since World War II .\n\nThe Anglo Mexican Foundation has a public library, with over 28,000 books in English and 11,000 patrons, The Anglo Library is the largest library in English in the country, its collection includes books about all the subjects, not only ELT.\n"}
{"id": "20351304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20351304", "title": "The Gathering (1977 film)", "text": "The Gathering (1977 film)\n\nThe Gathering is a 1977 American made-for-television drama film. A rare live-action film produced by the animation studio of Hanna-Barbera Productions, it was directed by Randal Kleiser and starring Edward Asner and Maureen Stapleton.\n\nAdam Thornton (Edward Asner), an ill-tempered executive who walked out on his family, learns that he only has a little time left to live. He decides that he wants to make peace with them and have one last reunion. He confides this information to his estranged wife, Kate (Maureen Stapleton). But when his doctor says that it won't be good for him to travel, she suggests that he call his four adult children and invite them all for Christmas.\n\nHe agrees only with the provision that they not be told of his illness and imminent death. The only problem is that most of them are not exactly fond of him because he walked out on Kate and of his stubborn nature. Of them, he is most nervous about seeing Bud (Gregory Harrison), whom he hasn't spoken to since having an argument with him regarding the Vietnam War and his move to Canada several years before.\n\n\nThe film was followed by the 1979 sequel \"The Gathering, Part II\", which picked up two years after Adam's death (Asner did not appear in it), and largely concerned Kate's relationship with a new man (Efrem Zimbalist Jr.).\n\n\nThe movie was released on DVD in Christmas 2009 by Warner Archive. This is a Manufacture-on-Demand (MOD) release, available through Warner's online store and Amazon.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "1666667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666667", "title": "The Place Promised in Our Early Days", "text": "The Place Promised in Our Early Days\n\nUnlike his short film \"Voices of a Distant Star\", which was largely made by Shinkai on his own, \"The Place Promised in Our Early Days\" is a full-scale production, as reflected by the better animation quality and the longer overall length. It has been broadcast across Japan by the anime satellite television network Animax. The film was licensed for North American release by ADV Films.\n\nAfter the Separation in Japan in 1974 the northern island, Hokkaidō (or Ezo, as it is called in the anime), was occupied by the \"Union\" (referring to the Soviet Union). Also in that same year, the Union began the construction of a strange tower on Hokkaido designed by a scientist named Ekusun Tsukinoe. The anime follows the story of three friends living in Aomori, in northern Japan: two boys, Hiroki Fujisawa and Takuya Shirakawa, both child prodigies; and one girl, Sayuri Sawatari. In 1996, the three are in ninth grade, their last year of middle school, and they are fascinated by the Hokkaido Tower visible across the Tsugaru Strait to the north. Sayuri becomes close friends with the two boys.\n\nThe boys find a crashed Maritime Self-Defense Force drone plane and work on rebuilding the plane with the support of Mr. Okabe, their boss at a military plant. The three teenagers promise to one day fly to Hokkaido to visit the Tower. However, before they can do this, Sayuri mysteriously disappears during the summer.\n\nThree years later, Takuya and Hiroki have stopped working on the plane, having taken different paths after the grief they suffered at Sayuri's disappearance. Takuya is working as a physicist at an Alliance scientific facility sponsored by the United States' National Security Agency, researching parallel universes alongside Ms. Maki Kasahara under the supervision of Professor Tomizawa. They know that the Hokkaido Tower, which began operating in 1996, replaces matter around it with matter from other universes, but they do not yet know why it does this for only a 2-km radius. Takuya becomes involved with the Uilta Liberation Front after he learns that Mr. Okabe is its leader; his factory workers are the other agents of the organization. Okabe signs Takuya on for an excursion to Ezo with Uilta.\n\nSayuri is revealed to have been hospitalized over the past three years, having developed an extreme form of narcolepsy; she has been sleeping continuously for most of the three years. Her mind is trapped in an unpopulated parallel universe, where she is all alone. Tomizawa has discovered that she is somehow connected to the Union's research into parallel universes and the Hokkaido Tower's ability to change the surrounding land into alternate possibilities, but Tomizawa keeps this information, as well as her whereabouts, secret from Takuya initially. Tomizawa is secretly working with the Uilta Liberation Front and lets Mr. Okabe know about Sayuri, while Mr. Okabe reveals that the Uilta Liberation Front plans to bomb the Hokkaido Tower to incite war against the Union, hoping that this will lead to the reunification of Japan.\n\nTakuya finally learns of the most likely scenario through his coworker – that Sayuri was used by her grandfather, a Union physicist, to channel all of the Tower's unstable dimension-creating energy somewhere other than Earth, the implication of him not having done so likely having resulted in the dimension creating chain reactions around the tower to continue growing in area until it enveloped the whole world. Saddened, he goes back to the old warehouse where he and Hiroki were working on the plane, only to find Hiroki, who wants Takuya to help him complete the plane to save Sayuri. He coldly points a gun at Hiroki and has him choose between Sayuri and the World without waiting for an answer – walking away in pain.\n\nWith Okabe's guidance, Takuya locks up his coworker and takes Sayuri away from the NSA compound – Takuya and Hiroki finally come back together to work on the plane. Takuya helps to finish the final programming of the plane, as they plan, using the cover of the soon coming declaration of war against Ezo, to fly to the tower and destroy it before its rays affect everything on Earth, which in turn will save Sayuri.\n\nThe plane only seats two, so Takuya allows Hiroki to pilot the plane and fulfill their childhood promise. Hiroki manages to fly the plane across the strait to the Tower carrying Sayuri and a missile provided by the Uilta Liberation Front. When Sayuri finally awakens while the plane circles the Tower, the Tower activates and immediately begins to transform the surrounding area; the area under transformation grows to encompass much of Hokkaido. In the last few minutes of her coma, Sayuri realizes that when she awakes she will lose all her memories of her dreams of the past 3 years, and thus upon waking she weeps because, unknowingly, she lost the memory of her love for Hiroki. Flying back, Hiroki fires the missile, destroying the Tower and stopping the matter transformation. The film ends with Hiroki vowing to Sayuri that they will start their relationship anew.\n\nThe film includes several references to other literary works and themes, such as separation and dreams. The poem read by Sayuri in class is from the poem collection by a well-known Japanese writer Kenji Miyazawa (1896–1933). It was written on the occasion of the premature death of his sister, Toshi Miyazawa (1898–1922). Furthermore, during the summer sequence of the film, Sayuri is seen reading a novel titled by Morishita Sakae. Although the author is fictional, a book of the same name exists by a similarly named poet, Hoshio Sakae.\n\nA reference to the director's previous work is made when Takuya and Hiroki meet at the station. They see a cat which Takuya calls Chobi, the name of the cat from \"She and Her Cat\".\n\nAomori Station was featured at the beginning of the film.\n\nNoted animation film distribution company GKIDS acquired the North American rights. GKIDS plans an Summer 2019 theatrical release in its original Japanese and a dubbed English-language version.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Place Promised in Our Early Days\" was also serialized as a manga in Afternoon. Serialization began in February 2006 and ended in August 2006, with a total of seven chapters. The story is by Makoto Shinkai while the art is by Mizu Sahara.\n\n\nTrack list:\n\n"}
{"id": "47354502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47354502", "title": "The Serpent and the Rope", "text": "The Serpent and the Rope\n\nThe Serpent and the Rope is a novel by Raja Rao first published in 1960 by John Murray. Written in an autobiographical style, the novel deals with the concepts of existence, reality, and fulfillment of one's capabilities. The protagonist Ramaswamy's thought process in the novel is said to be influenced by vedantic philosophy and Adi Shankara's non-dualism.\n\nThe novel won the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "30864300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864300", "title": "Tool library", "text": "Tool library\n\nA tool library allow patrons to check out or borrow tools, equipment and \"how-to\" instructional materials, functioning either as a rental shop, with a charge for borrowing the tools, or more commonly free of charge as a form of community sharing. A tool library performs the following main tasks:\n\nA tool lending library was started in Columbus, OH in 1976. Originally run by the city, the tool library is now operated by Rebuilding Together Central Ohio, a non-profit organization that works to preserve and revitalize homes and communities in Central Ohio. The RTCO Tool Library makes available over 4,500 tools free of charge to both individuals and non-profit organizations. This tool library was among many in what could maybe be considered the first generation of tool libraries - including The Phinney Tool Library in 1978 and The Berkeley Tool Library in 1979 - most of which were founded in the late 70s or early 80s. Many of these libraries were started with community block grants. A variation of the tool lending library model exists in Atlanta, Georgia. At the Atlanta Community ToolBank, the tools are reserved for use only by nonprofits and other community-based organizations who are performing volunteer and facility maintenance projects. The ToolBank tool inventory is not available to individuals.\n\nIn 2009, the community of West Seattle in Washington started the West Seattle Tool Library, which provides a wide variety of tools and resources for individuals and organizations while specifically encouraging sustainable urban living. In 2011, Popular Mechanics recognized \"Building a Local Tool Library\" as one of its top ten ways to change the world, while highlighting the West Seattle Tool Library.\n\nIn response to that recognition, \"Share Starter\" began to offer a free \"Tool Library Starter Kit\" to any community interested in starting a lending library of their own. The kit includes start up guidelines, frequently asked questions, and sample documents. Additionally, the Center for a New American Dream published a webinar which highlighted insights from a handful of tool libraries on how to get started.\n\nGiven their increasing popularity and proven history of success, tool libraries and tool banks are now playing a role in the sharing economy and can be found in local public libraries and makerspaces, for instance. There are software platforms for managing tool and other types of lending libraries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21786641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21786641", "title": "UNESCO", "text": "UNESCO\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO; ) is a specialized agency of the United Nations (UN) based in Paris. Its declared purpose is to contribute to peace and security by promoting international collaboration through educational, scientific, and cultural reforms in order to increase universal respect for justice, the rule of law, and human rights along with fundamental freedom proclaimed in the United Nations Charter.\nIt is the successor of the League of Nations' International Committee on Intellectual Cooperation.\n\nUNESCO has 195 member states and ten associate members. Most of its field offices are \"cluster\" offices covering three or more countries; national and regional offices also exist.\n\nUNESCO pursues its objectives through five major programs: education, natural sciences, social/human sciences, culture and communication/information. Projects sponsored by UNESCO include literacy, technical, and teacher-training programs, international science programs, the promotion of independent media and freedom of the press, regional and cultural history projects, the promotion of cultural diversity, translations of world literature, international cooperation agreements to secure the world's cultural and natural heritage (World Heritage sites) and to preserve human rights, and attempts to bridge the worldwide digital divide. It is also a member of the United Nations Development Group.\n\nUNESCO's aim is \"to contribute to the building of peace, the eradication of poverty, sustainable development and intercultural dialogue through education, the sciences, culture, communication and information\". Other priorities of the organization include attaining quality Education For All and lifelong learning, addressing emerging social and ethical challenges, fostering cultural diversity, a culture of peace and building inclusive knowledge societies through information and communication.\n\nThe broad goals and objectives of the international community—as set out in the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)—underpin all UNESCO strategies and activities.\n\nUNESCO and its mandate for international cooperation can be traced back to a League of Nations resolution on 21 September 1921, to elect a Commission to study feasibility. On 18 December 1925, the International Bureau of Education (IBE) began work as a non-governmental organization in the service of international educational development. However, the onset of World War II largely interrupted the work of these predecessor organizations.\n\nAfter the signing of the Atlantic Charter and the Declaration of the United Nations, the Conference of Allied Ministers of Education (CAME) began meetings in London which continued from 16 November 1942 to 5 December 1945. On 30 October 1943, the necessity for an international organization was expressed in the Moscow Declaration, agreed upon by China, the United Kingdom, the United States and the USSR. This was followed by the Dumbarton Oaks Conference proposals of 9 October 1944. Upon the proposal of CAME and in accordance with the recommendations of the United Nations Conference on International Organization (UNCIO), held in San Francisco in April–June 1945, a United Nations Conference for the establishment of an educational and cultural organization (ECO/CONF) was convened in London 1–16 November 1945 with 44 governments represented. The idea of UNESCO was largely developed by Rab Butler, the Minister of Education for the United Kingdom, who had a great deal of influence in its development. At the ECO/CONF, the Constitution of UNESCO was introduced and signed by 37 countries, and a Preparatory Commission was established. The Preparatory Commission operated between 16 November 1945, and 4 November 1946—the date when UNESCO's Constitution came into force with the deposit of the twentieth ratification by a member state.\n\nThe first General Conference took place from 19 November to 10 December 1946, and elected Dr. Julian Huxley to Director-General. The Constitution was amended in November 1954 when the General Conference resolved that members of the Executive Board would be representatives of the governments of the States of which they are nationals and would not, as before, act in their personal capacity. This change in governance distinguished UNESCO from its predecessor, the CICI, in how member states would work together in the organization's fields of competence. As member states worked together over time to realize UNESCO's mandate, political and historical factors have shaped the organization's operations in particular during the Cold War, the decolonization process, and the dissolution of the USSR.\n\nAmong the major achievements of the organization is its work against racism, for example through influential statements on race starting with a declaration of anthropologists (among them was Claude Lévi-Strauss) and other scientists in 1950 and concluding with the 1978 Declaration on Race and Racial Prejudice.\nIn 1956, the Republic of South Africa withdrew from UNESCO claiming that some of the organization's publications amounted to \"interference\" in the country's \"racial problems.\" South Africa rejoined the organization in 1994 under the leadership of Nelson Mandela.\n\nUNESCO's early work in the field of education included the pilot project on fundamental education in the Marbial Valley, Haiti, started in 1947.\nThis project was followed by expert missions to other countries, including, for example, a mission to Afghanistan in 1949.\nIn 1948, UNESCO recommended that Member States should make free primary education compulsory and universal.\nIn 1990, the World Conference on Education for All, in Jomtien, Thailand, launched a global movement to provide basic education for all children, youths and adults.\nTen years later, the 2000 World Education Forum held in Dakar, Senegal, led member governments to commit to achieving basic education for all by 2015.\n\nUNESCO's early activities in culture included, for example, the Nubia Campaign, launched in 1960.\nThe purpose of the campaign was to move the Great Temple of Abu Simbel to keep it from being swamped by the Nile after construction of the Aswan Dam. During the 20-year campaign, 22 monuments and architectural complexes were relocated. This was the first and largest in a series of campaigns including Mohenjo-daro (Pakistan), Fes (Morocco), Kathmandu (Nepal), Borobudur (Indonesia) and the Acropolis (Greece).\nThe organization's work on heritage led to the adoption, in 1972, of the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage.\nThe World Heritage Committee was established in 1976 and the first sites inscribed on the World Heritage List in 1978.\nSince then important legal instruments on cultural heritage and diversity have been adopted by UNESCO member states in 2003 (Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage) and 2005 (Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions).\n\nAn intergovernmental meeting of UNESCO in Paris in December 1951 led to the creation of the European Council for Nuclear Research, which was responsible for establishing the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) in 1954.\n\nArid Zone programming, 1948–1966, is another example of an early major UNESCO project in the field of natural sciences.\nIn 1968, UNESCO organized the first intergovernmental conference aimed at reconciling the environment and development, a problem which continues to be addressed in the field of sustainable development. The main outcome of the 1968 conference was the creation of UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere Programme.\n\nIn the field of communication, the \"free flow of ideas by word and image\" has been in UNESCO's constitution from its beginnings, following the experience of the Second World War when control of information was a factor in indoctrinating populations for aggression.\nIn the years immediately following World War II, efforts were concentrated on reconstruction and on the identification of needs for means of mass communication around the world. UNESCO started organizing training and education for journalists in the 1950s.\nIn response to calls for a \"New World Information and Communication Order\" in the late 1970s, UNESCO established the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems, which produced the 1980 MacBride report (named after the Chair of the Commission, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate Seán MacBride).\nThe same year, UNESCO created the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC), a multilateral forum designed to promote media development in developing countries. In 1991, UNESCO's General Conference endorsed the Windhoek Declaration on media independence and pluralism, which led the UN General Assembly to declare the date of its adoption, 3 May, as World Press Freedom Day. Since 1997, UNESCO has awarded the UNESCO / Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize every 3 May. In the lead up to the World Summit on the Information Society in 2003 (Geneva) and 2005 (Tunis), UNESCO introduced the Information for All Programme.\n\nUNESCO admitted Palestine as a member in 2011.\nLaws passed in the United States in 1990 and 1994 mean that it cannot contribute financially to any UN organisation that accepts Palestine as a full member. As a result, it withdrew its funding which accounted for about 22% of UNESCO's budget. Israel also reacted to Palestine's admittance to UNESCO by freezing Israel payments to the UNESCO and imposing sanctions to the Palestinian Authority, claiming that Palestine's admittance would be detrimental \"to potential peace talks\". Two years after they stopped paying their dues to UNESCO, US and Israel lost UNESCO voting rights in 2013 without losing the right to be elected; thus, the US was elected as a member of the Executive Board for the period 2016–19.\n\nUNESCO implements its activities through the five programme areas: education, natural sciences, social and human sciences, culture, and communication and information.\nUNESCO does not accredit institutions of higher learning.\n\nThe UNESCO transparency portal has been designed to enable public access to information regarding Organization's activities, such as its aggregate budget for a biennium, as well as links to relevant programmatic and financial documents. These two distinct sets of information are published on the IATI registry, respectively based on the IATI Activity Standard and the IATI Organization Standard.\n\nThere have been proposals to establish two new UNESCO lists. The first proposed list will focus on movable cultural heritage such as artifacts, paintings, and biofacts. The list may include cultural objects, such as the Jōmon Venus of Japan, the Mona Lisa of France, the Gebel el-Arak Knife of Egypt, The Ninth Wave of Russia, the Seated Woman of Çatalhöyük of Turkey, the David (Michelangelo) of Italy, the Mathura Herakles of India, the Manunggul Jar of the Philippines, the Crown of Baekje of South Korea, The Hay Wain of the United Kingdom and the Benin Bronzes of Nigeria. The second proposed list will focus on the world's living species, such as the Komodo Dragon of Indonesia, the Panda of China, the Bald eagle of North American countries, the Aye-aye of Madagascar, the Asiatic Lion of India, the Kakapo of New Zealand, and the Mountain tapir of Colombia, Ecuador and Peru.\n\nUNESCO and its specialized institutions issue a number of magazines.\n\n\"The UNESCO Courier\" magazine states its mission to \"promote UNESCO’s ideals, maintain a platform for the dialogue between cultures and provide a forum for international debate.\" Since March 2006 it is available online, with limited printed issues. Its articles express the opinions of the authors which are not necessarily the opinions of UNESCO. There was a hiatus in publishing between 2012 and 2017.\n\nIn 1950, UNESCO initiated the quarterly review \"Impact of Science on Society\" (also known as \"Impact\") to discuss the influence of science on society. The journal ceased publication in 1992. UNESCO also published museum international quarterly from the year 1948.\n\nUNESCO has official relations with 322 international non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Most of these are what UNESCO calls \"operational\"; a select few are \"formal\".\nThe highest form of affiliation to UNESCO is \"formal associate\", and the 22 NGOs with \"formal associate\" (ASC) relations occupying offices at UNESCO are:\n\nThe institutes are specialized departments of the organization that support UNESCO's programme, providing specialized support for cluster and national offices.\n\nUNESCO awards 22 prizes in education, science, culture and peace:\n\n\nInternational Days observed at UNESCO is provided in the table given below\n\nUNESCO counts 195 member states and 10 associate members.\nSome members are not independent states and some members have additional National Organizing Committees from some of their dependent territories.\nUNESCO state parties are the United Nations member states (except Liechtenstein), Cook Islands, Niue, and the State of Palestine.\nThe USA and Israel plan to leave UNESCO on 31 December 2018 over purported anti-Israel bias.\n\nThere has been no elected UNESCO Director-General from Southeast Asia, South Asia, Central and North Asia, Middle East, North Africa, East Africa, Central Africa, South Africa, Australia-Oceania, and South America since inception.\n\nThe Director-Generals of UNESCO came from West Europe (5), Central America (1), North America (2), West Africa (1), East Asia (1), and East Europe (1). Out of the 11 Director-Generals since inception, women have held the position only twice. Qatar, the Philippines, and Iran are proposing for a Director-General bid by 2021 or 2025. There have never been a Middle Eastern or Southeast Asian UNESCO Director-General since inception. The ASEAN bloc and some Pacific and Latin American nations support the possible bid of the Philippines, which is culturally Asian, Oceanic, and Latin. Qatar and Iran, on the other hand, have fragmented support in the Middle East. Egypt, Israel, and Madagascar are also vying for the position but have yet to express a direct or indirect proposal. Both Qatar and Egypt lost in the 2017 bid against France.\n\nThe list of the Directors-General of UNESCO since its establishment in 1946 is as follows:\n\nThis is the list of the sessions of the UNESCO General Conference held since 1946:\n\nUNESCO headquarters are located at Place de Fontenoy in Paris, France.\n\nUNESCO's field offices across the globe are categorized into four primary office types based upon their function and geographic coverage: cluster offices, national offices, regional bureaus and liaison offices.\n\nThe following list of all UNESCO Field Offices is organized geographically by UNESCO Region and identifies the members states and associate members of UNESCO which are served by each office.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUNESCO has been the centre of controversy in the past, particularly in its relationships with the United States, the United Kingdom, Singapore and the former Soviet Union. During the 1970s and 1980s, UNESCO's support for a \"New World Information and Communication Order\" and its MacBride report calling for democratization of the media and more egalitarian access to information was condemned in these countries as attempts to curb freedom of the press. UNESCO was perceived as a platform for communists and Third World dictators to attack the West, in contrast to accusations made by the USSR in the late 1940s and early 1950s. In 1984, the United States withheld its contributions and withdrew from the organization in protest, followed by the United Kingdom in 1985. Singapore withdrew also at the end of 1985, citing rising membership fees. Following a change of government in 1997, the UK rejoined. The United States rejoined in 2003, followed by Singapore on 8 October 2007.\n\nIsrael was admitted to UNESCO in 1949, one year after its creation. Israel has maintained its membership since 1949.\nIn 2010, Israel designated the Cave of the Patriarchs, Hebron and Rachel's Tomb, Bethlehem as National Heritage Sites and announced restoration work, prompting criticism from the United States and protests from Palestinians. In October 2010, UNESCO's Executive Board voted to declare the sites as \"al-Haram al-Ibrahimi/Tomb of the Patriarchs\" and \"Bilal bin Rabah Mosque/Rachel's Tomb\" and stated that they were \"an integral part of the occupied Palestinian Territories\" and any unilateral Israeli action was a violation of international law.\nUNESCO described the sites as significant to \"people of the Muslim, Christian and Jewish traditions\", and accused Israel of highlighting only the Jewish character of the sites.\nIsrael in turn accused UNESCO of \"detach[ing] the Nation of Israel from its heritage\", and accused it of being politically motivated.\nThe Rabbi of the Western Wall claimed that Rachel's tomb had not previously been declared a holy Muslim site. Israel partially suspended ties with UNESCO. Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon declared that the resolution was a \"part of Palestinian escalation\".\nZevulun Orlev, chairman of the Knesset Education and Culture Committee, referred to the resolutions as an attempt to undermine the mission of UNESCO as a scientific and cultural organization that promotes cooperation throughout the world.\n\nOn 28 June 2011, UNESCO's World Heritage Committee, at Jordan's insistence, censured Israel's decision to demolish and rebuild the Mughrabi Gate Bridge in Jerusalem for safety reasons. Israel stated that Jordan had signed an agreement with Israel stipulating that the existing bridge must be dismantled for safety reasons; Jordan disputed the agreement, saying that it was only signed under U.S. pressure. Israel was also unable to address the UNESCO committee over objections from Egypt.\n\nIn January 2014, days before it was scheduled to open, UNESCO Director-General, Irina Bokova, \"indefinitely postponed\" and effectively cancelled an exhibit created by the Simon Wiesenthal Center entitled \"The People, The Book, The Land: The 3,500-year relationship between the Jewish people and the Land of Israel.\" The event was scheduled to run from 21 January through 30 January in Paris. Bokova cancelled the event after representatives of Arab states at UNESCO argued that its display would \"harm the peace process\". The author of the exhibition, Professor Robert Wistrich of the Hebrew University's Vidal Sassoon International Center for the Study of Anti-Semitism, called the cancellation an \"appalling act,\" and characterized Bokova's decision as \"an arbitrary act of total cynicism and, really, contempt for the Jewish people and its history.\" UNESCO amended the decision to cancel the exhibit within the year, and it quickly achieved popularity and was viewed as a great success.\n\nOn 13 October 2016, UNESCO passed a resolution on East Jerusalem that condemned Israel for \"aggressions\" by Israeli police and soldiers and \"illegal measures\" against the freedom of worship and Muslims' access to their holy sites, while also recognizing Israel as the occupying power. Palestinian leaders welcomed the decision. While the text acknowledged the \"importance of the Old City of Jerusalem and its walls for the three monotheistic religions\", it referred to the sacred hilltop compound in Jerusalem's Old City only by its Muslim name \"Al-Haram al-Sharif\", Arabic for Noble Sanctuary. In response, Israel denounced the UNESCO resolution for its omission of the words \"Temple Mount\" or \"Har HaBayit,\" stating that it denies Jewish ties to the key holy site. After receiving criticism from numerous Israeli politicians and diplomats, including Benjamin Netanyahu and Ayelet Shaked, Israel froze all ties with the organization. The resolution was condemned by Ban ki-Moon and the Director-General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova, who said that Judaism, Islam and Christianity have clear historical connections to Jerusalem and \"to deny, conceal or erase any of the Jewish, Christian or Muslim traditions undermines the integrity of the site. Al-Aqsa Mosque is also Temple Mount, whose Western Wall is the holiest place in Judaism.\" It was also rejected by the Czech Parliament which said the resolution reflects a \"hateful anti-Israel sentiment\", and hundreds of Italian Jews demonstrated in Rome over Italy's abstention. On 26 October, UNESCO approved a reviewed version of the resolution, which also criticized Israel for its continuous \"refusal to let the body's experts access Jerusalem's holy sites to determine their conservation status.\" Despite containing some softening of language following Israeli protests over a previous version, Israel continued to denounce the text. The resolution refers to the site Jews and Christians refer to as the Temple Mount, or Har HaBayit in Hebrew, only by its Arab name — a significant semantic decision also adopted by UNESCO's executive board, triggering condemnation from Israel and its allies. U.S. Ambassador Crystal Nix Hines stated: \"This item should have been defeated. These politicized and one-sided resolutions are damaging the credibility of UNESCO.\"\n\nIn October 2017, the United States and Israel announced they would withdraw from the organization, citing in-part anti-Israel bias.\n\nIn February 2011, an article was published in a Palestinian youth magazine in which a teenage girl described one of her four role-models as Adolf Hitler. In December 2011, UNESCO, which partly funded the magazine, condemned the material and subsequently withdrew support.\n\nIn 2012, UNESCO decided to establish a chair at the Islamic University of Gaza in the field of astronomy, astrophysics, and space sciences, fueling controversy and criticism. Israel bombed the school in 2008 claiming they develop and store weapons there, a claim Israel restated in criticizing UNESCO's move.\n\nThe head, Kamalain Shaath, defended UNESCO, stating that \"the Islamic University is a purely academic university that is interested only in education and its development\". Israeli ambassador to UNESCO Nimrod Barkan planned to submit a letter of protest with information about the university's ties to Hamas, especially angry that this was the first Palestinian university that UNESCO chose to cooperate with. The Jewish organization B'nai B'rith criticized the move as well.\n\nOn 16 and 17 February 2012, UNESCO held a conference entitled \"The Media World after WikiLeaks and News of the World.\" Despite all six panels being focused on WikiLeaks, no member of WikiLeaks staff was invited to speak. After receiving a complaint from WikiLeaks spokesman Kristinn Hrafnsson, UNESCO invited him to attend, but did not offer a place on any panels. The offer also came only a week before the conference, which was held in Paris, France. Many of the speakers featured, including David Leigh and Heather Brooke, had spoken out openly against WikiLeaks and its founder Julian Assange in the past. WikiLeaks released a press statement on 15 February 2012 denouncing UNESCO which stated, \"UNESCO has made itself an international human rights joke. To use 'freedom of expression' to censor WikiLeaks from a conference about WikiLeaks is an Orwellian absurdity beyond words.\"\n\nIn 2013, UNESCO announced that the collection \"The Life and Works of Ernesto Che Guevara\" became part of the Memory of the World Register. US Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen condemned this decision, saying that the organization acts against its own ideals:\n\nUN Watch also condemned this selection by UNESCO.\n\nIn 2015, Japan threatened to halt funding for UNESCO over the organization's decision to include documents relating to the 1937 Nanjing massacre in the latest listing for its \"Memory of the World\" program.\nIn October 2016, Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida confirmed that Japan's 2016 annual funding of ¥4.4 billion had been suspended although denied any direct link with the Nanjing document controversy.\n\nAfter withdrawing from UNESCO in 1984, the United States rejoined January 10, 2003. Former U.S. Congressman Jim Leach stated before a Congressional subcommittee:\nHe concluded that the record showed Israel bashing, a call for a new world information order, money management, and arms control policy to be the impetus behind the withdrawal; he asserted that before the UNESCO withdrawal, a withdrawal from the IAEA had been pushed on him. The United States rejoined UNESCO shortly thereafter.\n\nOn 12 October 2017, the United States notified UNESCO that it will again withdraw from the organization on 31 December 2018 and will seek to establish a permanent observer mission beginning in 2019. The Department of State cited \"mounting arrears at UNESCO, the need for fundamental reform in the organization, and continuing anti-Israel bias at UNESCO.\"\n\nThe United States has not paid its $80 million annual UNESCO dues since Palestine became a full member in 2011. Israel and the US were among only 14 votes against the membership, of 194 member countries.\n\nOn May 25, 2016, the noted Turkish poet and human rights activist Zülfü Livaneli resigned as Turkey’s only UNESCO goodwill ambassador. He highlighted human rights situation in Turkey and destruction of historical Sur district of Diyarbakir, the largest city in Kurdish-majority southeast Turkey, during fighting between the Turkish army and Kurdish militants as the main reasons for his resignation. Livaneli said: \"To pontificate on peace while remaining silent against such violations is a contradiction of the fundamental ideals of UNESCO.\"\n\n\nUNESCO develops, maintains and disseminates, free of charge, two interrelated software packages for database management (CDS/ISIS [not to be confused with UK police software package ISIS]) and data mining/statistical analysis (IDAMS).\n\n"}
{"id": "2145996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2145996", "title": "What-not", "text": "What-not\n\nA what-not is a piece of furniture derived from the French étagère, which was exceedingly popular in England in the first three-quarters of the 19th century. It usually consists of slender uprights or pillars, supporting a series of shelves for holding china, ornaments, trifles, or \"what not\", hence the allusive name. In its English form, it is a convenient piece of drawing room furniture, and was rarely valued for its aesthetic.\n\n"}
{"id": "33884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33884", "title": "Woodstock", "text": "Woodstock\n\nWoodstock was a music festival held on a dairy farm in the Catskill Mountains, northwest of New York City, between August 15–18, 1969, which attracted an audience of more than 400,000.\n\nBilled as \"An Aquarian Exposition: 3 Days of Peace & Music\", it was held at Max Yasgur's 600-acre dairy farm near White Lake in Bethel, New York, southwest of Woodstock.\n\nOver the sometimes rainy weekend, 32 acts performed outdoors. It is widely regarded as a pivotal moment in popular music history, as well as the definitive nexus for the larger counterculture generation. \"Rolling Stone\" listed it as one of the \"50 Moments That Changed the History of Rock and Roll\".\n\nThe event was captured in the Academy Award-winning 1970 documentary movie \"Woodstock\", an accompanying , and Joni Mitchell's song \"Woodstock\", which commemorated the event and became a major hit for both Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young and Matthews Southern Comfort. Joni Mitchell said, \"Woodstock was a spark of beauty\" where half-a-million kids \"saw that they were part of a greater organism\". In 2017, the festival site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nWoodstock was initiated through the efforts of Michael Lang, Artie Kornfeld, Joel Rosenman, and John P. Roberts. Roberts and Rosenman financed the project. Lang had some experience as a promoter, having co-organized a festival on the East Coast the prior year, the Miami Pop Festival, where an estimated 25,000 people attended the two-day event.\n\nEarly in 1969, Roberts and Rosenman were New York City entrepreneurs, in the process of building Media Sound, a large audio recording studio complex in Manhattan. Lang and Kornfeld's lawyer, Miles Lourie, who had done legal work on the Media Sound project, suggested that they contact Roberts and Rosenman about financing a similar, but much smaller, studio Kornfeld and Lang hoped to build in Woodstock, New York. Unpersuaded by this Studio-in-the-Woods proposal, Roberts and Rosenman counter-proposed a concert featuring the kind of artists known to frequent the Woodstock area (such as Bob Dylan and The Band). Kornfeld and Lang agreed to the new plan, and Woodstock Ventures was formed in January 1969. The company offices were located in an oddly decorated floor of 47 West 57th Street in Manhattan. Burt Cohen, and his design group, Curtain Call Productions, oversaw the psychedelic transformation of the office.\n\nFrom the start, there were differences in approach among the four: Roberts was disciplined and knew what was needed for the venture to succeed, while the laid-back Lang saw Woodstock as a new, \"relaxed\" way of bringing entrepreneurs together. When Lang was unable to find a site for the concert, Roberts and Rosenman, growing increasingly concerned, took to the road and eventually came up with a venue. Similar differences about financial discipline made Roberts and Rosenman wonder whether to pull the plug or to continue pumping money into the project.\n\nIn April 1969, Creedence Clearwater Revival became the first act to sign a contract for the event, agreeing to play for $10,000. The promoters had experienced difficulty landing big-name groups prior to Creedence committing to play. Creedence drummer Doug Clifford later commented, \"Once Creedence signed, everyone else jumped in line and all the other big acts came on.\" Given their 3 a.m. start time and omission from the \"Woodstock\" film (at frontman John Fogerty's insistence), members have expressed bitterness over their experiences regarding the festival.\n\nWoodstock was designed as a profit-making venture. It famously became a \"free concert\" only after the event drew hundreds of thousands more people than the organizers had prepared for. Tickets for the three-day event cost $18 in advance and $24 at the gate (equivalent to about $ and $ today). Ticket sales were limited to record stores in the greater New York City area, or by mail via a post office box at the Radio City Station Post Office located in Midtown Manhattan. Around 186,000 advance tickets were sold, and the organizers anticipated approximately 200,000 festival-goers would turn up.\n\nThe original venue plan was for the festival to take place in Wallkill, New York, possibly near the proposed recording studio site owned by Alexander Tapooz. After local residents quickly shot down that idea, Lang and Kornfeld thought they had found another possible location in Saugerties, New York. But they had misunderstood, as the landowner's attorney made clear, in a brief meeting with Roberts and Rosenman. Growing alarmed at the lack of progress, Roberts and Rosenman took over the search for a venue, and discovered the Mills Industrial Park () in the town of Wallkill, New York, which Woodstock Ventures leased for $10,000 in the Spring of 1969. Town officials were assured that no more than 50,000 would attend. Town residents immediately opposed the project. In early July, the Town Board passed a law requiring a permit for any gathering over 5,000 people. On July 15, 1969, the Wallkill Zoning Board of Appeals officially banned the concert on the basis that the planned portable toilets would not meet town code. Reports of the ban, however, turned out to be a publicity bonanza for the festival.\n\nIn his 2007 book \"Taking Woodstock\", Elliot Tiber relates that he offered to host the event on his motel grounds, and had a permit for such an event. He claims to have introduced the promoters to dairy farmer Max Yasgur. Lang, however, disputes Tiber's account and says that Tiber introduced him to a realtor, who drove him to Yasgur's farm without Tiber. Sam Yasgur, Max's son, agrees with Lang's account. Yasgur's land formed a natural bowl sloping down to Filippini Pond on the land's north side. The stage would be set up at the bottom of the hill with Filippini Pond forming a backdrop. The pond would become a popular skinny dipping destination.\n\nThe organizers once again told Bethel authorities they expected no more than 50,000 people.\n\nDespite resident opposition and signs proclaiming, \"Buy No Milk. Stop Max's Hippy Music Festival\", Bethel Town Attorney Frederick W. V. Schadt and building inspector Donald Clark approved the permits, but the Bethel Town Board refused to issue them formally. Clark was ordered to post stop-work orders.\n\nThe late change in venue did not give the festival organizers enough time to prepare. At a meeting three days before the event, organizers felt they had two options: one was to complete the fencing and ticket booths, without which the promoters would lose any profit or go into debt; the other option involved putting their remaining available resources into building the stage, without which the promoters feared they would have a disappointed and disgruntled audience. When the audience began arriving by the tens of thousands the next day, the Wednesday before the weekend, the decision was made for them. Those without tickets simply walked through gaps in the fences, and the organizers were forced to make the event free of charge. Though the festival left its promoters nearly bankrupt, their ownership of the film and recording rights more than compensated for the losses after the release of the hit documentary film in 1970.\n\nThe influx of attendees to the rural concert site in Bethel created a massive traffic jam. Fearing chaos as thousands began descending on the community, Bethel did not enforce its codes. Eventually, announcements on radio stations as far away as WNEW-FM in Manhattan and descriptions of the traffic jams on television news discouraged people from setting off to the festival. Arlo Guthrie made an announcement that was included in the film saying that the New York State Thruway was closed. The director of the Woodstock museum discussed below said this never occurred. To add to the problems and difficulty in dealing with the large crowds, recent rains had caused muddy roads and fields. The facilities were not equipped to provide sanitation or first aid for the number of people attending; hundreds of thousands found themselves in a struggle against bad weather, food shortages, and poor sanitation.\n\nOn the morning of Sunday, August 17, New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller called festival organizer John Roberts and told him he was thinking of ordering 10,000 New York State National Guard troops to the festival. Roberts was successful in persuading Rockefeller not to do this. Sullivan County declared a state of emergency. During the festival, personnel from nearby Stewart Air Force Base assisted in helping to ensure order and airlifting performers in and out of the concert venue.\n\nJimi Hendrix was the last act to perform at the festival. Because of the rain delays that Sunday, when Hendrix finally took the stage it was 8:30 Monday morning. The audience, which had peaked at an estimated 400,000 during the festival, was now reduced to about 30,000 by that point; many of them merely waited to catch a glimpse of Hendrix before leaving during his performance.\n\nHendrix and his new band, Gypsy Sun and Rainbows (introduced as The Experience, but corrected by Hendrix) performed a two-hour set. His psychedelic rendition of the U.S. national anthem, \"The Star-Spangled Banner\" occurred about three-quarters into the set (after which he segued into \"Purple Haze\"). The song would become \"part of the sixties Zeitgeist\" as it was captured forever in the Woodstock film; Hendrix's image performing this number wearing a blue-beaded white leather jacket with fringe and a red head scarf has since been regarded as a defining moment of the 1960s.\n\nAlthough the festival was remarkably peaceful given the number of people and the conditions involved, there were two recorded fatalities: one from insulin usage, and another caused in an accident when a tractor ran over an attendee sleeping in a nearby hayfield. There also were two births recorded at the event (one in a car caught in traffic and another in a hospital after an airlift by helicopter) and four miscarriages. Oral testimony in the film supports the overdose and run-over deaths and at least one birth, along with many logistical headaches.\n\nYet, in tune with the idealistic hopes of the 1960s, Woodstock satisfied most attendees. There was a sense of social harmony, which, with the quality of music, and the overwhelming mass of people, many sporting bohemian dress, behavior, and attitudes, helped to make it one of the enduring events of the century.\n\nAfter the concert, Max Yasgur, who owned the site of the event, saw it as a victory of peace and love. He spoke of how nearly half a million people filled with potential for disaster, riot, looting, and catastrophe spent the three days with music and peace on their minds. He stated, \"If we join them, we can turn those adversities that are the problems of America today into a hope for a brighter and more peaceful future ... \"\n\nSound for the concert was engineered by sound engineer Bill Hanley. \"It worked very well,\" he says of the event. \"I built special speaker columns on the hills and had 16 loudspeaker arrays in a square platform going up to the hill on towers. We set it up for 150,000 to 200,000 people. Of course, 500,000 showed up.\" ALTEC designed marine plywood cabinets that weighed half a ton apiece and stood tall, almost deep, and wide. Each of these enclosures carried four JBL D140 loudspeakers. The tweeters consisted of 4×2-Cell & 2×10-Cell Altec Horns. Behind the stage were three transformers providing 2,000 amperes of current to power the amplification setup. For many years this system was collectively referred to as \"the Woodstock Bins\".\n\nThirty-two acts performed over the course of the four days:\n\n\nVery few reporters from outside the immediate area were on the scene. During the first few days of the festival, national media coverage emphasized the problems. Front-page headlines in the \"Daily News\" read \"Traffic Uptight at Hippiefest\" and \"Hippies Mired in a Sea of Mud\". The New York Times ran an editorial titled \"Nightmare in the Catskills,\" which read in part, \"The dreams of marijuana and rock music that drew 300,000 fans and hippies to the Catskills had little more sanity than the impulses that drive the lemmings to march to their deaths in the sea. They ended in a nightmare of mud and stagnation ... What kind of culture is it that can produce so colossal a mess?\" Coverage became more positive by the end of the festival, in part because the parents of concertgoers called the media and told them, based on their children's phone calls, that their reporting was misleading.\n\n\"The New York Times\" covered the prelude to the festival and the move from Wallkill to Bethel. Barnard Collier, who reported from the event for \"The New York Times\", asserts that he was pressured by on-duty editors at the paper to write a misleadingly negative article about the event. According to Collier, this led to acrimonious discussions and his threat to refuse to write the article until the paper's executive editor, James Reston, agreed to let him write the article as he saw fit. The eventual article dealt with issues of traffic jams and minor lawbreaking, but went on to emphasize cooperation, generosity, and the good nature of the festival goers. When the festival was over, Collier wrote another article about the exodus of fans from the festival site and the lack of violence at the event. The chief medical officer for the event and several local residents were quoted as praising the festival goers.\n\nMiddletown, New York's \"Times Herald-Record\", the only local daily newspaper, editorialized against the law that banned the festival from Wallkill. During the festival a rare Saturday edition was published. The paper had the only phone line running out of the site, and it used a motorcyclist to get stories and pictures from the impassable crowd to the newspaper's office away in Middletown.\n\nThe documentary film \"Woodstock\", directed by Michael Wadleigh and edited by Thelma Schoonmaker and Martin Scorsese, was released in 1970. Artie Kornfeld (one of the promoters of the festival) went to Fred Weintraub, an executive at Warner Bros., and asked for money to film the festival. Artie had been turned down everywhere else, but against the express wishes of other Warner Bros. executives, Weintraub put his job on the line and gave Kornfeld $100,000 to make the film. \"Woodstock\" helped to save Warner Bros at a time when the company was on the verge of going out of business. The book \"Easy Riders, Raging Bulls\" details the making of the film.\n\nWadleigh rounded up a crew of about 100 from the New York film scene. With no money to pay the crew, he agreed to a double-or-nothing scheme, in which the crew would receive double pay if the film succeeded and nothing if it bombed. Wadleigh strove to make the film as much about the hippies as the music, listening to their feelings about compelling events contemporaneous with the festival (such as the Vietnam War), as well as the views of the townspeople.\n\n\"Woodstock\" received the Academy Award for Documentary Feature. The film has been deemed culturally significant by the United States Library of Congress. In 1994, \"Woodstock: The Director's Cut\" was released and expanded to include Janis Joplin as well as additional performances by Jefferson Airplane, Jimi Hendrix, and Canned Heat not seen in the original version of the film. In 2009, the expanded 40th Anniversary Edition was released on DVD. This release marks the film's first availability on Blu-ray disc.\n\nAnother film on Woodstock named \"Taking Woodstock\" was produced in 2009 by Taiwanese American filmmaker Ang Lee. Lee practically rented out the entire town of New Lebanon, New York, to shoot the film. He was concerned with angering the locals, but they ended up being incredibly welcoming and excited to help with the film. The movie is based on Elliot Tiber, played by Demetri Martin, and his role in bringing Woodstock to Bethel, New York. The film also stars Jonathan Groff as Michael Lang and Henry Goodman and Imelda Staunton as Jake and Sonia Teichberg.\n\nTwo soundtrack albums were released. The first, \"\", was a 3-LP (later 2-CD) album containing a sampling of one or two songs by most of the acts who performed. A year later, \"Woodstock 2\" was released as a 2-LP album. Both albums included recordings of stage announcements (many by Production Coordinator John Morris, e.g., \"[We're told] that the brown acid is not specifically too good\", \"Hey, if you think really hard, maybe we can stop this rain\") and crowd noises (i.e., the rain chant) between songs. In 1994, a third album, \"Woodstock Diary\" was released. Tracks from all three albums, as well as numerous additional, previously unreleased performances from the festival but not the stage announcements and crowd noises, were reissued by Atlantic as a 4-CD box set titled \"\".\n\nAn album titled \"Jimi Hendrix: Woodstock\" also was released in 1994, featuring only selected recordings of Jimi Hendrix at the festival. A longer double-disc set, \"Live at Woodstock\" (1999) features nearly every song of Hendrix's performance, omitting just two pieces that were sung by his rhythm guitarist.\n\nIn 2009, Joe Cocker released \"Live at Woodstock\", a live album of his entire Woodstock set. The album contained eleven tracks, ten of which were previously unreleased.\n\nIn 2009, complete performances from Woodstock by Santana, Janis Joplin, Sly & the Family Stone, Jefferson Airplane, and Johnny Winter were released separately by Legacy/SME Records, and were also collected in a box set titled \"The Woodstock Experience\". Also, in 2009, Rhino/Atlantic Records issued a 6-CD box set titled \"\", which included further musical performances as well as stage announcements and other ancillary material.\n\nMax Yasgur refused to rent out his farm for a 1970 revival of the festival, saying, \"As far as I know, I'm going back to running a dairy farm.\" Yasgur died in 1973.\n\nBethel voters tossed out their supervisor in an election held in November 1969 because of his role in bringing the festival to the town. New York State and the town of Bethel passed mass gathering laws designed to prevent any more festivals from occurring.\n\nIn 1984, at the original festival site, land owners Louis Nicky and June Gelish put up a monument marker with plaques called \"Peace and Music\" by a local sculptor from nearby Bloomingburg, Wayne C. Saward (1957–2009).\n\nAttempts were made to prevent people from visiting the site, its owners spread chicken manure, and during one anniversary, tractors and state police cars formed roadblocks. Twenty thousand people gathered at the site in 1989 during an impromptu 20th anniversary celebration. In 1997 a community group put up a welcoming sign for visitors. Unlike Bethel, the town of Woodstock made several efforts to cash in on its notoriety. Bethel's stance changed in recent years, and the town now embraces the festival. Efforts have begun to forge a link between Bethel and Woodstock.\n\nApproximately 80 lawsuits were filed against Woodstock Ventures, primarily by farmers in the area. The movie financed settlements and paid off the $1.4 million of debt Woodstock Ventures had incurred from the festival.\n\nIn 1984, a plaque was placed at the original site commemorating the festival. The field and the stage area remain preserved in their rural setting and the fields of the Yasgur farm are still visited by people of all generations.\n\nIn 1996, the site of the concert and surrounding was purchased by cable television pioneer Alan Gerry for the purpose of creating the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts. The Center opened on July 1, 2006, with a performance by the New York Philharmonic. On August 13, 2006, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young performed before 16,000 fans at the new Center—37 years after their historic performance at Woodstock.\n\nThe Museum at Bethel Woods opened on June 2, 2008. The Museum contains film and interactive displays, text panels, and artifacts that explore the unique experience of the Woodstock festival, its significance as the culminating event of a decade of radical cultural transformation, and the legacy of the Sixties and Woodstock today.\n\nRichie Havens' ashes were scattered across the site on August 18, 2013.\n\nIn late 2016 New York's State Historic Preservation Office applied to the National Park Service to have including the site of the festival and adjacent areas used for campgrounds, all of which still appear mostly as they did in 1969 as they were not redeveloped when Bethel Woods was built, listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThere was worldwide media interest in the 40th anniversary of Woodstock in 2009. A number of activities to commemorate the festival took place around the world. On August 15, at the Bethel Woods Center for the Arts overlooking the original site, the largest assembly of Woodstock performing alumni since the original 1969 festival performed in an eight-hour concert in front of a sold-out crowd. Hosted by Country Joe McDonald, the concert featured Big Brother and the Holding Company performing Janis Joplin's hits (she actually appeared with the Kozmic Blues Band at Woodstock, although that band did feature former Big Brother guitarist Sam Andrew), Canned Heat, Ten Years After, Jefferson Starship, Mountain, and the headliners, The Levon Helm Band. At Woodstock, Levon Helm played drums and was one of the lead vocalists with The Band. Paul Kantner was the only member of the 1969 Jefferson Airplane lineup to appear with Jefferson Starship. Tom Constanten, who played keyboard with the Grateful Dead at Woodstock, joined Jefferson Starship on stage for several numbers. Jocko Marcellino from Sha Na Na also appeared, backed up by Canned Heat. Richie Havens, who opened the Woodstock festival in 1969, appeared at a separate event the previous night. Crosby, Stills & Nash and Arlo Guthrie also marked the anniversary with live performances at Bethel earlier in August 2009.\n\nAnother event occurred in Hawkhurst, Kent (UK), at a Summer of Love party, with acts including two of the participants at the original Woodstock, Barry Melton of Country Joe and the Fish and Robin Williamson of The Incredible String Band, plus Santana and Grateful Dead cover bands. On August 14 and 15, 2009, a 40th anniversary tribute concert was held in Woodstock, Illinois, and was the only festival to receive the official blessing of the \"Father of Woodstock\", Artie Kornfeld. Kornfeld later made an appearance in Woodstock with the event's promoters.\n\nAlso in 2009, Michael Lang and Holly George-Warren published \"The Road to Woodstock\", which describes Lang's involvement in the creation of the Woodstock Music & Arts Festival, and includes personal stories and quotes from central figures involved in the event.\n\nIn May 2014, a producer and organizer of the original Woodstock event, Michael Lang, revealed plans for a possible 50th anniversary concert in 2019 and that he was exploring various locations.\n\nAs one of the biggest rock festivals of all time and a cultural touchstone for the late 1960s, Woodstock has been referenced in many different ways in popular culture. The phrase \"the Woodstock generation\" became part of the common lexicon. Tributes and parodies of the festival began almost as soon as the final chords sounded. Cartoonist Charles Schulz named his recurring \"Peanuts\" bird character – which began appearing in 1966 but was still unnamed – Woodstock in tribute to the festival. In April 1970, \"Mad\" magazine published a poem by Frank Jacobs and illustrated by Sergio Aragonés titled \"I Remember, I Remember The Wondrous Woodstock Music Fair\" that parodies the traffic jams and the challenges of getting close enough to actually hear the music. Keith Robertson's 1970 children's book \"Henry Reed's Big Show\" has the title character attempting to emulate the success of the festival by mounting his own concert at his uncle's farm. In 1973, the stage show \"National Lampoon's Lemmings\" portrayed the \"Woodchuck\" festival, featuring parodies of many Woodstock performers.\n\nMore recent culture continues to remember Woodstock, with \"Time\" magazine naming \"The Who at Woodstock – 1969\" to the magazine's \"Top 10 Music-Festival Moments\" list on March 18, 2010.\n\n\"A Walk on the Moon\" is a 1999 film set partially at the Woodstock festival.\n\nIn 2005, Argentine writer Edgar Brau published \"Woodstock\", a long poem commemorating the festival. An English translation of the poem was published in January 2007 by Words Without Borders.\n\n\"Taking Woodstock\" is a 2009 film that dramatizes how the festival came together.\nIn 2017, the singer Lana Del Rey released a song, \"Coachella - Woodstock in My Mind,\" in order to show her worries about the tensions between North Korea and the United States, while she was at Coachella, expressing nostalgia by reminding the Woodstock festival as a symbol of peace.\n\n\n\n"}
