{"id": "4540878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4540878", "title": "Adam Haslett", "text": "Adam Haslett\n\nAdam Haslett (born December 24, 1970) is an American fiction writer. He currently lives in New York City, New York. His first book, a collection of short stories entitled \"You Are Not a Stranger Here\", was released in 2002 and was a finalist for the 2002 National Book Award and the 2003 Pulitzer Prize. It was also named one of the five best books of the year by \"Time\". His book \"Imagine Me Gone\" was on the 2016 Los Angeles Times Book Prize for Fiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449", "title": "Alan Kay", "text": "Alan Kay\n\nAlan Curtis Kay (born May 17, 1940) is an American computer scientist. He has been elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the Royal Society of Arts. He is best known for his pioneering work on object-oriented programming and windowing graphical user interface design.\n\nHe is the president of the Viewpoints Research Institute, and an adjunct professor of computer science at the University of California, Los Angeles. He is also on the advisory board of TTI/Vanguard. Until mid-2005, he was a senior fellow at HP Labs, a visiting professor at Kyoto University, and an adjunct professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).\n\nKay is also a former professional jazz guitarist, composer, and theatrical designer, and an amateur classical pipe organist.\n\nIn an interview on education in America with the Davis Group Ltd., Kay said,\n\nOriginally from Springfield, Massachusetts, Kay's family relocated several times due to his father's career in physiology before ultimately settling in the New York metropolitan area when he was nine.\n\nHe attended the prestigious Brooklyn Technical High School, where he was suspended due to insubordination in his senior year. Having already accumulated enough credits to graduate, Kay then attended Bethany College in Bethany, West Virginia. He majored in biology and minored in mathematics before he was asked to leave by the administration for protesting the institution's Jewish quota.\n\nThereafter, Kay taught guitar in Denver, Colorado for a year and hastily enlisted in the United States Air Force when the local draft board inquired about his nonstudent status. Assigned as a computer programmer (a rare billet dominated by women due to the secretarial connotations of the field in the era) after passing an aptitude test, he devised an early cross-platform file transfer system.\n\nFollowing his discharge, Kay enrolled at the University of Colorado Boulder, earning a bachelor's degree in mathematics and molecular biology in 1966. Before and during this time, he worked as a professional jazz guitarist. During his studies at CU, he wrote the music for an adaptation of \"The Hobbit\" and other campus theatricals.\n\nIn the autumn of 1966, he began graduate school at the University of Utah College of Engineering. He earned an M.S. in electrical engineering in 1968 before taking his Ph.D. in computer science in 1969. His doctoral dissertation, \"FLEX: A Flexible Extendable Language\", described the invention of a computer language known as FLEX. While at Utah, he worked with \"father of computer graphics\" Ivan Sutherland, best known for writing such pioneering programs as Sketchpad. This greatly inspired Kay's evolving views on objects and programming. As he grew busier with ARPA research, he ended his musical career.\n\nIn 1968, he met Seymour Papert and learned of the Logo programming language, a dialect of Lisp optimized for educational purposes. This led him to learn of the work of Jean Piaget, Jerome Bruner, Lev Vygotsky, and of constructionist learning, further influencing his professional orientation.\n\nLeaving Utah as an associate professor of computer science in 1969, Kay became a visiting researcher at the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory in anticipation of accepting a professorship at Carnegie Mellon University. Instead, in 1970, he joined the Xerox PARC research staff in Palo Alto, California. Throughout the decade, he developed prototypes of networked workstations using the programming language Smalltalk. These inventions were later commercialized by Apple in their Lisa and Macintosh computers.\n\nKay is one of the fathers of the idea of object-oriented programming, which he named, along with some colleagues at PARC. Some of the original object-oriented concepts, including the use of the words 'object' and 'class', had been developed for Simula 67 at the Norwegian Computing Center. Later he said:\n\nI'm sorry that I long ago coined the term \"objects\" for this topic because it gets many people to focus on the lesser idea. The big idea is \"messaging\"\n\nWhile at PARC, Kay conceived the Dynabook concept, a key progenitor of laptop and tablet computers and the e-book. He is also the architect of the modern overlapping windowing graphical user interface (GUI). Because the Dynabook was conceived as an educational platform, Kay is considered to be one of the first researchers into mobile learning; many features of the Dynabook concept have been adopted in the design of the One Laptop Per Child educational platform, with which Kay is actively involved.\n\nThe field of computing is awaiting new revolution to happen, according to Kay, in which educational communities, parents, and children will not see in it a set of tools invented by Douglas Engelbart, but a medium in the Marshall McLuhan sense. He wrote:\n\nAs with Simulas leading to OOP, this encounter finally hit me with what the destiny of personal computing really was going to be. Not a personal dynamic vehicle, as in Engelbart's metaphor opposed to the IBM \"railroads\", but something much more profound: a personal dynamic medium. With a vehicle one could wait until high school and give \"drivers ed\", but if it was a medium, it had to extend into the world of childhood.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1984, Kay was Atari's Chief Scientist. He became an Apple Fellow in 1984. Following the closure of the company's Advanced Technology Group in 1997, he was recruited by his friend Bran Ferren, head of research and development at Disney, to join Walt Disney Imagineering as a Disney Fellow. He remained there until Ferren left to start Applied Minds Inc with Imagineer Danny Hillis, leading to the cessation of the Fellows program. In 2001, he founded Viewpoints Research Institute, a non-profit organization dedicated to children, learning, and advanced software development. For its first ten years, Kay and his Viewpoints group were based at Applied Minds in Glendale, California, where he and Ferren continued to work together on various projects. Kay was also a Senior Fellow at Hewlett-Packard until HP disbanded the Advanced Software Research Team on July 20, 2005.\n\nKay taught a Fall 2011 class, \"Powerful Ideas: Useful Tools to Understand the World\", at New York University's Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) along with full-time ITP faculty member Nancy Hechinger. The goal of the class was to devise new forms of teaching/learning based on fundamental, powerful concepts rather than traditional rote learning.\n\nIn December 1995, while still at Apple, Kay collaborated with many others to start the open source Squeak version of Smalltalk, and he continues to work on it. As part of this effort, in November 1996, his team began research on what became the Etoys system. More recently he started, along with David A. Smith, David P. Reed, Andreas Raab, Rick McGeer, Julian Lombardi and Mark McCahill, the Croquet Project, an open source networked 2D and 3D environment for collaborative work.\n\nIn 2001, it became clear that the Etoy architecture in Squeak had reached its limits in what the Morphic interface infrastructure could do. Andreas Raab was a researcher working in Kay's group, then at Hewlett-Packard. He proposed defining a \"script process\" and providing a default scheduling mechanism that avoids several more general problems. The result was a new user interface, proposed to replace the Squeak Morphic user interface in the future. Tweak added mechanisms of islands, asynchronous messaging, players and costumes, language extensions, projects, and tile scripting. Its underlying object system is class-based, but to users (during programming) it acts like it is prototype-based. Tweak objects are created and run in Tweak project windows.\n\nIn November 2005, at the World Summit on the Information Society, the MIT research laboratories unveiled a new laptop computer, for educational use around the world. It has many names: the $100 Laptop, the One Laptop per Child program, the Children's Machine, and the XO-1. The program was begun and is sustained by Kay's friend, Nicholas Negroponte, and is based on Kay's Dynabook ideal. Kay is a prominent co-developer of the computer, focusing on its educational software using Squeak and Etoys.\n\nKay has lectured extensively on the idea that the computer revolution is very new, and all of the good ideas have not been universally implemented. Lectures at OOPSLA 1997 conference and his ACM Turing award talk, entitled \"The Computer Revolution Hasn't Happened Yet\" were informed by his experiences with Sketchpad, Simula, Smalltalk, and the bloated code of commercial software.\n\nOn August 31, 2006, Kay's proposal to the United States National Science Foundation (NSF) was granted, thus funding Viewpoints Research Institute for several years. The proposal title was: \"STEPS Toward the Reinvention of Programming\": A compact and Practical Model of Personal Computing as a Self-exploratorium. A sense of what Kay is trying to do comes from this quote, from the abstract of a seminar on this given at Intel Research Labs, Berkeley: \"The conglomeration of commercial and most open source software consumes in the neighborhood of several hundreds of millions of lines of code these days. We wonder: how small could be an understandable practical \"Model T\" design that covers this functionality? 1M lines of code? 200K LOC? 100K LOC? 20K LOC?\"\n\nAlan Kay has received many awards and honors. Among them:\n\nHis other honors include the J-D Warnier Prix d'Informatique, the ACM Systems Software Award, the NEC Computers & Communication Foundation Prize, the Funai Foundation Prize, the Lewis Branscomb Technology Award, and the ACM SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contributions to Computer Science Education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1195175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1195175", "title": "American Regions Mathematics League", "text": "American Regions Mathematics League\n\nThe American Regions Mathematics League (ARML), is an annual, national high school mathematics team competition held simultaneously at four locations in the United States: the University of Iowa, Penn State, UNLV, and the newly added site at the University of Georgia. Past sites have included San Jose and at Duke University.\n\nARML is a prestigious, national math tournament that is often called the \"World Series of Mathematics Competitions\". Teams consist of 15 members, which usually represent a large geographic region (such as a state) or a large population center (such as a major city). Some math and science magnet schools, such as Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology, VA, and the Academy for the Advancement of Science and Technology (AAST), NJ, also field teams. The competition is held on the first Saturday after Memorial Day.\n\nAs of 2014, over 150 teams competed with around 2000 students.\n\nARML problems cover a wide variety of mathematical topics including algebra, geometry, number theory, combinatorics, probability, and inequalities. Calculus is not required to successfully complete any problem, but may facilitate solving the problem more quickly or efficiently. While part of the competition is short-answer based, there is a cooperative team round, and a proof-based power question (also completed as a team). ARML problems are harder than most high school mathematics competitions.\n\nThe contest is largely made possible by the monetary contribution of D. E. Shaw & Co. among other smaller contributors.\n\nThe competition consists of four formal events:\n\nAt the end, the student(s) with the highest scores on the individual compete for first place. Each student tied for the highest score is given a single question, and the quickest to get the correct answer wins. In the event of a tie (no one is able to get the correct answer in the given ten minutes), another tiebreaker is given, generally easier than the previous. The tiebreaker results are shared between the four sites to determine the top overall scorer, based on time to get the correct answer. The teams are scored based on the number of points they attained with the maximum being 300 points. \n\nIn recent years, there has been a super relay, where two groups of seven team members (fourteen in all) both work to give a correct answer to the fifteenth team member. That last team member substitutes \"two\" answers into his problem. For logistical reasons, the Super Relay has never counted towards the team score. It was instituted as a \"filler\" while scores are tabulated. Candies and other goodies are sometimes rewards for the super relay round.\n\nAlso in recent years, a song contest has become an informal event at ARML. Each school is allowed to have any number of their students perform a song related to mathematics, usually a parody of a popular song, with its lyrics replaced.\n\nThe format of the ARML competition is based on the NYSML competition, but is generally considered more difficult than the NYSML competition. This format also inspired the Great Plains Math League.\n\nThe New York State Mathematics League held its first competition in 1973, a competition intended for New York state teams. A team from Massachusetts asked to participate in the 1974 NYSML competition, and it took first place. This led to the creation of the \"Atlantic Regions Mathematics League\" in 1976, which became the American Regions Mathematics League in 1984.\n\nWhen the Atlantic Regions Mathematics League was founded, the competition was held at a single eastern site that changed from year to year:\n\nAfter 1983, the coordinators decided to keep the competition at Penn State University. ARML expanded to two sites in the late 1980s and to three sites in 1995. In 2008, ARML added a fourth site at the University of Georgia in Athens to better accommodate students in the Southeast.\n\nThe 2006 competition saw significant expansion. Around 120 teams and a total of around 1800 students competed, which was around 25% larger than during any other year. The attendance at the western site, UNLV, nearly doubled.\n\n"}
{"id": "645447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=645447", "title": "Archigram", "text": "Archigram\n\nArchigram was an avant-garde architectural group formed in the 1960s - based at the Architectural Association, London - that was neofuturistic, anti-heroic and pro-consumerist, drawing inspiration from technology in order to create a new reality that was solely expressed through hypothetical projects. The main members of the group were Peter Cook, Warren Chalk, Ron Herron, Dennis Crompton, Michael Webb and David Greene. Designer Theo Crosby was the \"hidden hand\" behind the group. He gave them coverage in \"Architectural Design\" magazine (where he was an editor from 1953–62), brought them to the attention of the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) in London, where, in 1963, they mounted an exhibition called \"Living Cities\", and in 1964 brought them into the Taylor Woodrow Design Group, which he headed, to take on experimental projects. The pamphlet \"Archigram I\" was printed in 1961 to proclaim their ideas. Committed to a 'high tech', light weight, infra-structural approach that was focused towards survival technology, the group experimented with modular technology, mobility through the environment, space capsules and mass-consumer imagery. Their works offered a seductive vision of a glamorous future machine age; however, social and environmental issues were left unaddressed. \n\nArchigram agitated to prevent modernism from becoming a sterile and safe orthodoxy by its adherents. Unlike ephemeralisation from Buckminster Fuller which assumes more must be done with less material (because material is finite), Archigram relies on a future of interminable resources.\n\nThe works of Archigram had a neofuturistic slant being influenced by Antonio Sant'Elia's works. Buckminster Fuller and Yona Friedman were also important sources of inspiration. The works of Archigram served as a source of inspiration for later works such as the High tech 'Pompidou centre' 1971 by Richard Rogers and Renzo Piano, early Norman Foster works, Gianfranco Franchini and Future Systems. By the early 1970s the strategy of the group had changed. In 1973 Theo Crosby wrote that its members had \"found their original impulses towards megastructures blunted by the changing intellectual climate in England, where the brash dreams of modern architects are received with ever-increasing horror. They are now more concerned with the infiltration of technology into the environment at a much less obvious level\".\n\nThe group was financially supported by mainstream architects, such as David Rock of BDP. Rock later nominated Archigram for the RIBA Royal Gold Medal which they received in 2002.\n\nSixpack France dedicated their Summer Spring 2009 Collection to this movement.\n\nPlug-in-City is a mega-structure with no buildings, just a massive framework into which dwellings in the form of cells or standardised components could be slotted. The machine had taken over and people were the raw material being processed, the difference being that people are meant to enjoy the experience.\n\nThe Walking City is constituted by intelligent buildings or robots that are in the form of giant, self-contained living pods that could roam the cities. The form derived from a combination of insect and machine and was a literal interpretation of le-Corbusier's aphorism of a house as a machine for living in. The pods were independent, yet parasitic as they could 'plug into' way stations to exchange occupants or replenish resources. The citizen is therefore a serviced nomad not totally dissimilar from today's executive cars. The context was perceived as a future ruined world in the aftermath of a nuclear war.\n\nInstant City is a mobile technological event that drifts into underdeveloped, drab towns via air (balloons) with provisional structures (performance spaces) in tow. The effect is a deliberate overstimulation to produce mass culture, with an embrace of advertising aesthetics. The whole endeavor is intended to eventually move on leaving behind advanced technology hook-ups.\n\nTuned City, in which Archigram's infrastructural and spatial additions attach themselves to an existing town at a percentage that leaves evidence of the previous development, rather than subsuming the whole.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5388852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5388852", "title": "Benjamin Russell (artist)", "text": "Benjamin Russell (artist)\n\nBenjamin Russell (October 16, 1804 – March 3, 1885) was an American artist best known for his accurate watercolors of whaling ships working in New England. Born in New Bedford, Massachusetts, to a wealthy family, Russell started drawing and painting in his late 30s, after a few years spent working as a cooper aboard a whaling ship.\nRussell's depiction of perspective and depth are stiff and flat, and his images \"were appreciated more for their accurate representation than their artistic value.\" However, most of his work is perfectly to scale, resembling control drawings, and Russell watercolors are some of the better views of the mid-19th-century American whaling industry, until photography became available in the 1850s.\n\nRussell began making lithographs in 1848, and began teaching art in Rhode Island, after the American Civil War ended in 1865.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50111206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50111206", "title": "Billie Ashford", "text": "Billie Ashford\n\nBelinda \"Billie\" Ashford is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera \"Home and Away\", played by Tessa de Josselin. The actress was first pictured on set in November 2014, before it was announced the following year that she had joined the cast as the younger sister of established character Martin Ashford (George Mason). De Josselin shot her first scenes in a cemetery on the Central Coast. She made her first appearance during the episode broadcast on 27 April 2015. The actress departed the show at the end of her guest stint, but she was later asked back by the producers and she became part of the regular cast.\n\nBillie is portrayed as a feisty, upfront, \"tomboy surfer\". Bille's introductory storylines focused on her reunion with her brother Ash and a brief casual relationship with Kyle Braxton (Nic Westaway). Later storylines saw Billie develop an infatuation with Nate Cooper (Kyle Pryor) after he saved her life. She became jealous of his relationship with Kat Chapman (Pia Miller) and tried to ruin her career. As the storyline progressed, Billie accused Nate of assaulting her, leading to his arrest. The storyline was criticised by Rosa Walling-Wefelmeyer of The F-Word, who thought it could potentially reinforce harmful stereotypes about victims of sexual violence.\n\nBillie was then accused of burning down Leah Patterson-Baker's (Ada Nicodemou) house, despite helping to save three of its occupants and sustaining serious burns. Following a brief departure, Billie returned to Summer Bay for her court appearance. Billie's early storylines have led her to be called \"unhinged\", \"troublesome\" and \"the Bay's bad girl\" by critics. Billie was later raped by Mick Jennings (Kristian Schmid) and became pregnant with his child. She also had a relationship with a then seventeen year old VJ Patterson (Matt Little). Shortly after giving birth to her daughter, Luc, Billie was diagnosed with terminal cancer and she died on 15 February 2017.\n\nOn 14 November 2014, Sarah Sayers of the \"Daily Mail Australia\" reported Tessa de Josselin had joined the cast of \"Home and Away\" in an unknown role. Sayers speculated de Josselin's character could be a love interest for Martin \"Ash\" Ashford, played by George Mason, after the two actors were photographed filming scenes together. On 19 April 2015, it was announced that de Josselin would be portraying Billie, Ash's younger sister. Of joining the cast, she stated \"I was super chuffed. No doubt there was a huge grin on my face for the rest of the week. It's a cool thing when hard work pays off and you know you've been given an opportunity to do what you love.\" De Josselin shot her first scenes in a cemetery on the Central Coast, alongside Mason, who she met for the first time that morning. De Josselin made her debut as Billie during the episode broadcast on 27 April 2015. Billie was initially a guest role and de Josselin left at the end of her contract to film new episodes of \"In Your Dreams\", before she was invited back as part of the regular cast.\n\nBillie is the younger sister of Martin Ashford (George Mason), who was introduced in late 2014. Billie is a feisty, \"tomboy surfer\", who endured a troubled childhood. De Josselin said Billie was fun to play and added \"Billie's super upfront and sometimes lacks a social filter.\" De Josselin told Stephen Downie of \"TV Week\" that she shared some similarities with Billie, such as being \"very active\", but did not think she was as abrasive and as closed off as Billie. De Josselin added, \"I think she puts on a front – her kind of tough-girl thing – but I think that's hiding a lot of stuff on the inside.\" The actress was grateful to the writers for writing in her passion for surfing and joked that she always wanted more surfing scenes in the scripts.\n\nAfter he was released from prison, Ash began a search to find his sister. Mason commented, \"Billie is the only family Ash has left, and he feels they need to make amends now he's out of jail.\" The siblings were finally reunited on Anzac Day when they both visited their brother Luke's grave. Billie ran away from Ash and tried to leave in her car, but he stood in the way and asked her not to go. She eventually agreed to stay and they returned to Luke's grave, where they talked about their past. Ash then convinced Billie to return to Summer Bay with him, so he could show her around. He introduced her to Ricky Sharpe (Bonnie Sveen), who invited them both to lunch. While they were talking about the events that led to Ash's prison sentence, he admitted to Billie that her boyfriend Dean Sanderson (Kevin Kiernan-Molloy) was dead. Billie was \"horrified\" and initially believed Ash was responsible, until he explained that his friend Darryl Braxton (Steve Peacocke) had been charged with Dean's murder.\n\nWhen Ash offered to let Billie stay in his caravan, she turned him down and decided to stay at the Braxton house instead. De Josselin commented that Billie was \"excited\" about meeting new people and finally having a roof over her head, as she had been living out of her car for the past few months. Unaware that Billie was in the other room, Kyle Braxton (Nic Westaway) came home and started playing his guitar, waking her up. Billie introduced herself to Kyle and explained that Ricky had allowed her to stay at the house. Kyle apologised for waking her and Billie began flirting with him, before leaning over to kiss him. De Josselin told Stephen Downie of \"TV Week\", \"I think Billie can sense Kyle's a sensitive, caring guy. She can also sense he's going through something.\" Despite going through a recent break-up, Kyle responded to the kiss and he and Billie had a one-night stand. Kyle felt guilty the following morning and made it clear to Billie that their night together was a mistake. When Kyle's ex-girlfriend, Phoebe Nicholson (Isabella Giovinazzo) came over to reconcile with him, she overheard Kyle asking Billie to keep their one-night stand a secret.\n\nBillie's first major storyline occurred in June 2015 when she developed a crush on Nate Cooper (Kyle Pryor) and later accused him of assault. The storyline began when Nate and his girlfriend Kat Chapman (Pia Miller) spotted Billie floating face down in the sea. Nate ran into the surf to get Billie and carried her to the beach, where he administered mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to get her breathing again. As Billie came round, Nate assured her she would be okay. As Billie looked at Nate \"adoringly\", Stephen Downie of \"TV Week\" noted that she was developing a crush on the doctor. Billie's crush on Nate intensified and she began trying to break up his relationship with Kat. Nate rejected Billie's advances and made it clear to her that he was not interested in her romantically, which she seemed to accept. Billie later approached Nate when she found herself alone with him in the gym and thanked him for being a gentleman, unnerving Nate. Billie's demeanour suddenly changed and she ran her nails down his cheek, scratching his face, and tore at her clothes, while screaming for him to stop. Her screams attracted the attention of Chris Harrington (Johnny Ruffo), who rushed into the gym and comforted Billie, as she accused Nate of assaulting her. Nate was questioned by Sergeant Mike Emerson (Cameron Stewart) at the police station, where he protested his innocence. However, Emerson then produced proof of a sexually explicit text sent from Nate's phone to Billie the previous week.\n\nNate was arrested for the attempted sexual assault of Billie. Kat immediately began trying to prove that Nate was innocent, but had difficulty as Billie \"put on a confident performance\" for the police, while Chris also backed up her story. However, Nate and Kat came to Chris to plead Nate's innocence and then asked him to help catch Billie out. Chris agreed to help them after finding evidence that Billie was behind an embarrassing poster that threatened to ruin Kat's career. Chris invited Billie over to his house and then tried to get her to confess to setting Nate up. He told her that he knew she was lying, but he wanted to see Nate punished and suggested they work together. Billie soon spotted that Chris's phone was recording the conversation and she switched it off, while claiming that she had not fallen for his plan. However, when she also admitted to framing Nate, Chris revealed that he was actually wearing a police wire and Billie was arrested by Emerson. De Josselin found the storyline challenging to portray, saying \"it's not something I would ever do. So, there's a challenge with breaking it down and thinking from the perspective of your character.\"\n\nWhen Billie noticed Leah Patterson-Baker's (Ada Nicodemou) house was on fire, she ran into the building to help Zac MacGuire (Charlie Clausen) rescue Oscar MacGuire (Jake Speer) and Matt Page (Alec Snow). She helped Zac kick down a bedroom door, allowing Oscar and Matt to escape. As the men rushed to get out of the house, they inadvertently left Billie behind. She became trapped by falling ceiling debris and was seriously injured. While Billie was recovering at the hospital, Kat arrested her for arson. Ash refused to believe that she was innocent, following her false assault allegation against Nate, and walked away from her. When Billie began to feel that no one cared about her, she \"fell into a dark depression\", leaving Nate concerned about her state of mind. Nate urged Ash to visit her in the hospital. Ash realised that Billie would not be able to cope with losing another sibling, so he tried to \"clear the air\" between them.\n\nHowever, when Ash voiced his doubts about Billie's innocence, she grew angry and disowned him. Billie then decided to get revenge by writing a letter to Ricky telling her that Brax had faked his death and that Ash had lied to her about it. When Billie discharged herself from the hospital, Nate told Kat that he was worried about her mental and physical health, as her burns needed constant treatment. Kat was also aware that Billie was close to breaching her bail conditions and she and Ash began a search. After failing to find her, they called off the search for the night, leaving Ash feeling guilty. The following day, Kat found Billie on top of the headland. De Josselin told an \"Inside Soap\" journalist that Billie felt that she had lost her brother and that the whole town was against her, so she had no reason to stay in Summer Bay.\n\nKat was worried that Billie might jump due to her unstable behaviour, so she tried to talk her into stepping away from the edge. However, it appeared Billie had not heard her as she continued to stare at the sea. When a message came through on Kat's police radio, it startled Billie and in her panic at seeing Kat, she moved closer to the edge of the cliff. De Josselin commented, \"When Billie hears Kat's radio, she snaps straight back to reality. She immediately thinks that Kat is there to arrest her for setting fire to Leah's house.\" Kat was worried that Billie might fall and reached out to grab her in an attempt to save her. Billie stepped to the side at the last minute, causing Kat to go over the edge. She managed to grab hold of a ledge and called for Billie to help her. Billie managed to save Kat by pulling her back over. At the hospital, Billie reiterated that she did not start the fire, before she was transferred to a hospital in the city.\n\nMonths later Billie found an unconscious Oscar MacGuire (Jake Speer) washed up on a beach. She dragged him to a nearby shack, shook him awake and gave him fresh water. As he came round, Oscar was surprised to see Billie was his rescuer and immediately accused her of trying to burn Leah's house down with him inside. Bille maintained her innocence and explained to Oscar that she had been living rough since leaving town a few months prior. She then called the police to tell them where Oscar was. He wondered if she would return to the Bay with him to see Ash, but she quickly left. Despite Billie not wanting to be found, Oscar told them that she had rescued him. Billie was eventually persuaded to return to Summer Bay ahead of her trial for arson. Ash now believed his sister was innocent and was against her lawyer's suggestion that she should plead guilty to gain a lesser sentence. He was also worried about her future, and when Phoebe told Billie his fears, she decided that the only option she had was to skip town. Phoebe managed to talk her round, but the following morning, they realised Billie had tried to flee and stopped her.\n\nSpeaking to Ali Cromarty of \"TV Week\", de Josselin explained that Billie knew she had been set up, but she was \"at a loss\" because she did not know who really started the fire. As she entered the courtroom, Billie was nervous and apprehensive. She knew she was innocent, but she was not sure the judge would feel the same way. She also thought her reputation and past could be used against her. De Josselin said, \"she feels there are so many things that have happened in the past, so why would anyone believe her? She's feeling disheartened.\" The actress added that Billie was \"resigned\" to going to prison, especially after Leah gave her testimony. Billie's fate rested on whether the real arsonist, Hunter King (Scott Lee), would stand up and confess. Already struggling with his guilt, Hunter was put under more pressure when Andy Barrett (Tai Hara) admitted he knew Hunter had started the fire. Cromarty pointed out that if Billie was found innocent, it could be the chance she needed to change her ways. De Josselin agreed, stating \"all Billie wants is to feel a part of the Summer Bay family. She's upset she's been falsely accused. It could be a turning point – if she can get over it.\" Hunter eventually admitted to starting the fire, clearing Billie's name.\n\nA few months later, Billie was given a love interest in the form of seventeen year old VJ Patterson (Matt Little). The story arc began with VJ developing a crush on Billie, who was initially amused by his flirty behaviour. When she noticed VJ trying unsuccessfully to teach Skye Peters (Marlo Kelly) how to surf, she offered her help. When Skye told VJ how good Billie was at teaching her, VJ's quick agreement caused Skye to realise he had feelings for Billie, despite his denial. VJ later asks Skye to pose as his girlfriend to make Billie jealous, as he believes Billie will want him if she thinks he is unavailable. He also wanted to prove to Billie that he was \"definite boyfriend material\". Skye thought the plan was \"silly\", but VJ pointed out that it could help her catch Oscar's attention too. Although Billie was initially uninterested in VJ, she began to develop feelings for him and his friendship helped provide a distraction from everything that had happened to her.\n\nIn an interview with Kerry Harvey of Stuff.co.nz, de Josselin admitted to being surprised by the development. She thought the age gap between Billie and VJ, who were twenty-three and seventeen respectively, was \"a big difference in real life\", but she was okay with it and thought that the relationship had a good chance. She stated, \"I don't think age is too much of a deciding factor. If two people are compatible and they've got a good strong bond then they've got a good chance of making it work.\" When VJ's mother, Leah Patterson-Baker (Ada Nicodemou) spotted Billie and VJ together, she was \"livid\" to learn they were in an intimate relationship. She was concerned about the age gap, as VJ was still at school. Leah was also aware of Billie's past and her bad reputation. De Josselin thought Leah had not had a chance to get to know Billie, especially as she had changed. She also was not aware of how genuine the couple's feelings for each other were. The actress also said that Billie's new relationship was helping to heal her and she could tell VJ really loved her. Leah and VJ's stepfather Zac chose to support the couple.\n\nMonths later, on his 18th birthday, VJ proposes to Billie. VJ creates a romantic setting in the garden by stringing up fairy lights to spell out \"Will you marry me?\", but it is \"the last thing Billie is expecting\" and she turns down the proposal. VJ was \"gutted\" by the rejection and demanded to know why Billie did not want to marry him. Unable to tell him the truth about the paternity of her unborn child, Billie explains that she thinks VJ only proposed because she is pregnant. VJ then gave Billie an ultimatum, saying that if she does not want to get married, then he thinks they should end their relationship. Billie eventually gives into pressure and accepts his proposal.\n\nA couple of months later, Billie finally tells VJ the truth about how she conceived her baby. As VJ says his vows during their wedding, Billie realises that she is unable to go through with marrying him and runs away. When VJ demands to know why she has changed her mind, Billie reveals that the baby is not his and that she was raped. A spokesperson told Sarah Ellis of \"Inside Soap\", \"The sad thing is, if she had been honest with him from the start, he probably would have stood by her. Instead, she's lied to him for months and humiliated him in front of his loved ones.\" VJ admits that he still loves Billie, but he cannot promise that they have a future together.\n\nAt the same time Billie was beginning a relationship with VJ, she was struggling to cope after being raped by a masked man in the gym. She initially kept her assault a secret, until she confided in Oscar, who later died in an explosion, and Phoebe, who agreed to keep quiet. De Josselin commented, \"She's really traumatised by the incident and is looking for some reassurance that everything is going to be OK.\" The actress wished that Billie had listened to Phoebe, who advised her to go to the police, as she thought Billie would have been able to take control of the situation. However, due to her past, Billie was reluctant to report her attack. De Josselin said that it was \"very hard\" for Billie, and that things would get more difficult as the story arc continued. de Josselin explained to Harvey (Stuff.co.nz) that everything had just started to go well for Billie, so the attack had blindsided her and left her in shock. She continued, \"I think initially it's not even really registering in her brain that it happened and that it was real. I think after that she just starts to freak out that no one will believe her because of her past behaviour.\"\n\nAs the storyline developed, the character soon learned that she was pregnant as a result of her assault. De Josselin admitted that the rape and pregnancy was \"a confronting storyline\" for her. She did a lot of research before filming to gain an understanding of how women feel after being assaulted. When Billie was admitted to hospital with severe morning sickness, Ash came to see her and found out she was pregnant. As Billie could not face telling him about her assault, she let him assume VJ was the father of her baby. Ash then confronted VJ, who was shocked to learn he was going to be a father. Billie undertakes \"bizarre behaviour\" to hide her ordeal by doctoring her medical records to alter her date of conception. Billie later discovered that Irene Roberts' (Lynne McGranger) son, Mick Jennings (Kristian Schmid) is her rapist and the father of her child.\n\nOn 23 August 2016, the \"Daily Mail Australia\" published photos taken at Palm Beach, where the show's outdoor scenes are filmed, appearing to show Phoebe mourning Billie at a makeshift memorial on the beach, leading to speculation that the character would be killed off. Six days later, the news outlet published photos of the cast filming Billie's funeral. Further details about Billie's exit storyline were released on 7 February 2017. In the lead up to her daughter's blessing, Billie suffers with \"a persistent cough\". At the ceremony, Billie collapses and is rushed to the hospital, where Nate has to run a bronchoscopy to learn what is wrong with her. Billie's condition \"rapidly\" deteriorates and Little commented that VJ has to face the fact that Billie might die.\n\nThe character's exit occurred during the episode broadcast on 15 February. After being diagnosed with an aggressive, terminal cancer, Billie is informed that she only has a short time left. She and VJ decide to marry at the hospital, before Billie requests that VJ take her and her daughter Luc Patterson to the beach. While watching the sun rise, Billie dies in VJ's arms. After her character's exit aired, de Josselin revealed that she was \"bummed out\" when the producers told her that Billie would die, as she wanted her to carry on and do good things. She also felt sadness at seeing a character she had \"built, lived and breathed for so long\" go. The actress added that she found Billie's final storyline interesting and was glad that she finally achieved peace.\n\nWhile recapping Billie's first episode, a writer for the \"TV Week\" website commented \"at first, Billie wanted nothing to do with Ash – what a great relationship these two have.\" During the Nate storyline, a contributor to the \"Sunday Mail\" noted \"Billie has taken to following Nate around a lovelorn puppy\". A colleague stated, \"Ash's sister Billie has caused the usual tornado that extended family members tend to do in the Bay when they arrive. She has been following Nate around like an obsessed teenager, much to cop Kat's annoyance.\" \"TV Week's\" Stephen Downie thought Billie was \"slightly unhinged\". Rosa Walling-Wefelmeyer, writing for the feminist blog The F-Word, expressed her disappointment about the false assault allegation storyline, saying it was not \"that original – or entertaining\". Walling-Wefelmeyer thought the writers' had introduced the trope with the intention of having it \"challenged and subverted\", instead she believed the plot could \"reinforce harmful stereotypes\" about victims of sexual violence.\n\nA \"Birmingham Mail\" reporter later observed, \"Billie's life in Summer Bay hasn't been a happy one so far – although she mostly only has herself to blame for that. Lying about being attacked, she has become a social pariah – but finds a way to redeem herself this week when she rescues Zac, Oscar and Matt from a fire at Leah's house.\" Another \"Sunday Mail\" contributor had a similar view, stating \"It's never easy being the town pariah but that's the position Billie finds herself in after her recent unfounded accusations.\" After the fire, a \"Liverpool Echo\" journalist commented \"Billie isn't the most popular person around\". However, Helen Vnuk of \"TV Week\" included Billie in her feature on soap heroes, saying that \"it was troubled Billie who saved everyone.\" Digital Spy's Sophie Dainty dubbed her \"troublesome\", while Laura Morgan of \"All About Soap\" thought she was \"unhinged\" and \"venomous\". Stephen Downie of \"TV Week\" called her \"the Bay's bad girl\" and quipped \"when Billie arrived in the Bay last year, she brought a whirlwind of trouble.\"\n\nFollowing Billie's rape, Sarah Ellis of \"Inside Soap\" stated \"There's no doubt that Billie's ordeal has been a harrowing plot to watch.\"\n"}
{"id": "2906386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2906386", "title": "Camp Rising Sun (New York)", "text": "Camp Rising Sun (New York)\n\nCamp Rising Sun is an international, full-scholarship, leadership summer program for students aged 14–16 by the Louis August Jonas Foundation (LAJF), a non-profit organization. Its seven-week program was operated from a boys' facility in Red Hook, New York, and a separate girls' facility in Clinton, New York, about north of New York City in the Hudson River Valley. Participants come from all over the world and are chosen by merit. Instead of being asked to pay for tuition, campers are requested to pass along, to someone else, the benefits they gained.\n\nThere are alumni organizations in numerous countries with more than 5,000 alumni around the world. Among the Camp Rising Sun alumni are a United Nations Under-Secretary General; a president of Harvard University; a winner of the Intel Science Talent Search; a Foreign Minister of South Korea; two former Israeli ambassadors; an Under Secretary of State in the Carter administration; and folk singer Pete Seeger.\n\nIn 1996, a group of Danish and other European alumni founded Camp Rising Sun Europe for young women. Organized and maintained by the George E. Jonas Foundation and the Camp Rising Sun Alumni Association of Denmark, the program was located in Stendis, Region Midtjylland, Denmark.\n\nLocated on in upstate New York, including on land once owned by the Livingston family, Camp Rising Sun (CRS) is one of the longest continuously running summer programs in the United States. It was founded just after the stock market crash in 1929 by philanthropist George E. Jonas with the mission to \"develop in promising young people from diverse backgrounds a lifelong commitment to sensitive and responsible leadership for the betterment of their communities and world.\"\n\nThe son of a successful businessman, Jonas grew up in privilege and wealth, but was troubled about the advantages he had in comparison with others. He grew dismayed at the world. Pondering what he could do to bring a measure of stability and peace to the world, he reasoned that hope rested in the youth of the world and he began to consider what might encourage, stimulate and motivate them. He got the idea to start a camp, one that \"is interested not merely in the boy, but in the man the boy will become.\" He set up a foundation, naming it after his father; the foundation runs the camp. For decades, Jonas personally interviewed many prospective campers and he was fondly called by all by his nickname, \"Freddie.\"\n\nAfter World War II, the program was expanded to include youth from every region of the world. In 1947, the first two African American boys were invited to attend and 1989, a girls' program was established. Jonas remained closely associated with the program until the time of his death in 1978.\n\nThe Louis August Jonas Foundation is guided by the philosophy of the founder. The mission is to \"develop in promising young people from diverse backgrounds a lifelong commitment to sensitive and responsible leadership for the betterment of their communities and world.\" In following Jonas' mission, the camp nurtures leadership skills and the training that comes with practical experience. Each camper gets the chance to be camp leader for one day. Prior to the 2018 Boys’ Session, the camper in charge for that day was called the \"sachem\"—a word that refers to an Algonquian chief. However, in 2018, the campers decided that this word was unjustly stolen from Native American culture. Thus, they ended the use of the word. As of 2018, the camper(s) in charge for the day are called “Leader(s) of the Day”. Feedback, both from the staff and peers, is given to further gain from the experience. Staff members, typically graduate students or teachers, provide support.\n\nThe goal of the program is that participants would integrate what they learn at Camp Rising Sun into their lives and pass it along to others. After the two months of sharing and working together, Jonas wanted campers to return to their communities the benefits they had gained. He said, \"We ask that the boys return to life, some day and in some way, the good they have received from it. So, we do ask a price, and its a rather high one.\"\n\nThe roughly 60 participants each year are students from more than 30 countries who are invited to attend the camp. Most come for just one summer, but each season includes a handful of students who are invited back for a second summer to help carry on the camp's traditions from year to year. Campers from outside the United States had an opportunity to stay with an American family or with US campers or alumni as part of a hosting program before the camp season starts.\n\nThe selection of participants is highly competitive and is based on a candidate's potential leadership ability, intellect (demonstrated academic achievement and ability to think critically), character, and individuality (developed abilities and interests). Camp alumni are generally responsible for selecting new campers from their countries, but in some cases, government officials such as the Minister of Education or an ambassador, do the selecting.\n\nThe program is neither religious nor political, but with campers coming from all over the United States, Europe, Asia, Africa and elsewhere, politics and religion are just two of the many topics that come up for discussion. After two months of exposure to many other nationalities, international issues become personal concerns. One camper after her summer at CRS stated, \"It's not just Iran anymore. It's my friend, Sepideh, who lives in Iran,\" referring to how such an international issue became personal to her.\n\nCamp Rising Sun's reputation was built on the conviction that there is much to be learned through experience and interaction with those from other cultures and nations. Campers help with all aspects of the camp, including meal preparation and maintenance, and work together on intellectual or cultural projects of their own choosing. They also conceive of and carry out landscaping projects to improve the camp, such as building a Finnish sauna or a Japanese rock garden. The eight weeks at CRS became a life-transforming experience. Alumni often choose professions of service and stay involved with the camp for decades afterward.\n\nJonas said, \"Schools give you technical training, but they don't necessarily teach you how to think\" and set up his camp to supply that need. Thus, while CRS includes swimming, boating, hiking, ping pong, soccer, basketball, tennis, and other sports, its focus is on providing opportunities for intellectual growth, for development of leadership skills, and appreciation of the value of diversity. The program challenges campers to try new things, but also offers them the option of participating or not, a freedom some have never experienced before. Campers work together in peer-led teams to take care of the daily maintenance needs of the camp. Counselors are skilled in a variety of disciplines from lifesaving to Japanese wrestling to filmmaking. There is instruction by staff, visiting alumni, guests, or other students on subjects like international affairs, poetry, theater, microscopes, filmmaking, creative writing, landscaping, history, music, art, drama, philosophy, ethics, and nature. Three weekly newspapers, written and produced by campers, document the comedic, artistic, and overall progress of the camp.\n\nStudents work on projects they conceive, plan and manage, both individually and in peer-led groups. There are evening artistic and intellectual programs, most often planned and executed by campers. At the end of July, there is a dramatic or musical production, involving the entire camp community. Each Saturday evening, there is a large campfire, at which campers discuss their different countries and cultures, about global issues, prejudice and hate and hear presentations, sometimes by outside lecturers.\n\nThere is also time available each day for campers to pursue their own activity, be it sports, the arts, reading, an educational pursuit, swimming in the pool or just talking with other campers. Campers are encouraged to keep a journal and prepare other written material that is kept on file and sent to the camper at his or her twenty-first birthday.\n\nA camper's journal from 2006 offers a glimpse of a typical day at Camp Rising Sun.\n\nBecause of the worldwide financial crisis that began in 2007, there was no camp program held in 2009 in the United States and the European program was cancelled for 2010. Since then, the two campuses in upstate New York have resumed summer programs and the organization has undertaken a new strategic plan to ensure the Camp Rising Sun legacy.\n\nOn September 10, 2014, the LAJF Board outlined its view on financial challenges facing the organization, including the need for a $10 million increase in its endowment in order to meet current and future needs. The LAJF Board made available on the website a presentation from a summit in September 2014 which provided additional details on LAJF’s financial condition and the Board’s views on potential options for the organization. On October 3, 2014, it was announced that as part of its “New Dawn for Rising Sun” program, that the board had unanimously voted to put up for sale both the Red Hook and Clinton campuses, and to begin the process of securing a new site for an undisclosed new program(s) in order to improve the fiscal health of the organization. In addition to the sale of the two campuses, the LAJF Board announced that the 2015 camp season would consist of two 4 week sessions each for the boys and girls, both of which were to take place at the Clinton campus. The LAJF Board also announced a new $4 million fund raising campaign. \n\nThis change in direction from the LAJF Board of Directors led some alumni to voice their concerns. Some alumni organized a group and began a petition, supported by over 400 alumni, seeking to have the current Board reconsider its planned actions and admit that alumni were not given ample opportunity to weigh in on this decision. \n\nOn October 20, 2014, the LAJF Board announced that the sale of the Red Hook campus was to be postponed for six months and that they would seek to be better engaged with CRS alumni, including providing for electronic Town Hall meetings and other increased communications on its New Dawn plan. \n\nIn mid 2015, after extensive meetings by the Board's Strategic Planning, Building & Grounds and Finance Committees, the LAJF Board agreed to consider the reopening of the Red Hook campus provided certain funds were raised by the alumni, $550,000 of which was needed to be raised by early September, to gain a \"formal\" commitment to do so. In record time, over 300 individual contributors responded to this call, and the Board declared the first hurdle for reopening Red Hook a success. Subsequent to this successful fundraise LAJF commissioned a survey of the Red Hook sewer system which concluded that needed septic system repairs would far exceed the $550,000 raised by the alumni.\n\nCRS campers become members of an international alumni group that are supportive of their evolving interests in college and careers. The LAJF Web site has a College Roster that connects young alumni with older alumni who are attending or have attended a broad range of colleges, universities and professional schools. Many alumni later spoke of their experiences at CRS, such as when writing their college essays. LAJF also supports a college scholarship program. While the Rising Sun experience is measured in weeks, the effects of the experience continue to develop and to play out over decades.\n\nAlumni organizations for CRS alumni have been created internationally.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9706226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9706226", "title": "Catonism", "text": "Catonism\n\nBarrington Moore defines Catonism in his book \"Social Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy\" as \"advocacy of the sterner virtues, militarism, contempt for 'decadent' foreigners and anti-intellectualism\".\nMoore coined the word \"Catonism\" with a nod towards Cato the Elder (234-149 BCE).\nHe characterized the Catonist attitude as the reaction from rural aristocracy towards rapid political and economic changes:\n\n"}
{"id": "4961768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4961768", "title": "Charles Faulkner (author)", "text": "Charles Faulkner (author)\n\nCharles Faulkner (born January 12, 1952) is an American who is a practitioner of neuro-linguistic programming (NLP), life coach, motivational speaker, trader and author.\n\nHe has authored a number of books and audio tapes on NLP, which is largely considered a pseudoscience\n\nFaulkner is profiled in the book \"The New Market Wizards\" by Jack D. Schwager.\n\nHowever, in 1981, Faulkner discovered a book about neuro-linguistic programming called \"The Structure of Magic I: A Book About Language and Therapy\" by Richard Bandler and John Grinder. The book's methodology described ways of affecting immediate and positive life changes by reprogramming speech, movement and thought patterns. That moment was a major turning point for Faulkner, as he understood that \"if you could get to the root of the crucial relationship between language and beliefs, then you could change everything.\" Upon the realization that Bandler and Grinder were developing innovations in areas where Northwestern University had not yet \"cracked the code,\" Faulkner began NLP training. By 1987, he was a certified NLP trainer. Today, Faulkner describes Grinder and Bandler as having been at least 10 years ahead of their time.\n\nEventually, Faulkner found his niche within NLP when he began developing decision-making strategy models based on the thought-patterns and behaviors of highly successful people. He mapped strategies for physicians, international negotiators and accelerated learners. He began to take a particular interest in studying the behavior of top traders in 1987 when a bond trader asked him if NLP could be used in the stock market. In 1990 after years of observing the decision-making strategies of successful traders such as Richard Dennis, Pete Steidlmayer, Jim Rogers, Paul Tudor Jones and Tom Baldwin, Faulkner decided to become a trader, himself. His first trade in 1992 was a failure; however, he did succeed in closing the year at a profit. Within three years, Faulkner's trading skills had improved enough that, author, Jack D. Schwager included his profile in \"The New Market Wizards: Conversations with America's Top Traders.\"\n\nIn the late 1990s, Faulkner decided to live in England, where he felt the economy would be more stable. He, along with other NLP trainers, has modeled successful strategies for overcoming challenges in a wide range of industries including rehabilitation, finance, medicine, sports, and bereavement, as well as others. As of 2008, Faulkner is a resident of Kingston-Upon-Thames, UK, where he serves as Director of Programs for NLP Comprehensive. and as Visiting Senior Fellow to the University of Surrey School of Management.\n\nFaulkner studied NLP with its co-founders. By blending his expertise in Ericksonian hypnosis (the foundation for NLP) with a wide array of cognitive-linguistic disciplines, as well as the Rogerian approach and Gestalt therapy, Charles Faulkner developed a unique system of modeling which he subsequently contributed to the field of NLP. In particular, Faulkner applies his modeling expertise to develop success strategies, taught internationally.\n\nCharles Faulkner has given instruction at most of the major NLP training institutes, in both the Practitioner and Master Practitioner programs. In the mid-to-late 80's, Faulkner was involved in learning and mapping NLP's early models such as \"Sub-modalities, Belief change, Sleight-of-mouth,\" and \"the Imperative Self\". In 1986 and 1987, he was editor of \"The NLP Connection,\" the journal for the National Association of NLP. During the two years that followed, he served as Executive Director of NLP Comprehensive.\n\nAs of 2008, he has authored and co-authored 10 books (see Published works), one of which is \"NLP: The New Technology of Achievement\", the number one selling NLP book on Amazon.com.\n\nFaulkner's numerous contributions to the field of NLP began in 1984 with his modeling of \"Accelerated Learning\", to pioneer more efficient and effective learning strategies. He taught this model together with NLP, to a group of teachers in Japan that same year. The result of this work was the founding of \"Learning How to Learn\". Upon returning to the U.S. in 1985, he modeled the \"Metaphors of Identity\". This model states that an individual's strategies and behavior patterns are informed by deeply structured metaphors for life, self, desired outcomes and challenges. By adopting new metaphors, an individual can create new pathways to transformation.\n\nThe academic research of cognitive linguists George Lakoff and Mark Johnson and Faulkner's experience with \"Metaphors\" support his hypothesis that cognitive processes are mostly metaphoric, and unconscious. Hence, conscious desires with functional qualities have parallel metaphors that sustain them. Twenty years later, Faulkner would write about this phenomenon in a two-part article entitled \"Outcomes, Decisions & 'Levels' of Meaning.\" In the years that followed, Faulkner continued to develop additional models, such as \"Physician Decision Strategies\" in 1986, \"Futures Trading\" in 1987, and finally \"System Structure\" (a simultaneous strategies model) in 1990.\n\nIn the 1990s, Faulkner honed his expertise as a modeler. He completed Perpetual Cybernetics, which differentiated the seven \"worlds of subjective experience\" that NLP uses as a basis for its presuppositions and techniques. In 1993, together with golf pro Mark Staples, he co-founded E.P.I.C Golf by modeling the internal and external behavior patterns of outstanding golfers. Later that same year, Faulkner co-authored and starred in the video \"NLP in Action\" and in 1994 he co-authored a book with Robert McDonald, entitled \"Success Mastery with NLP\", based on his work modeling 'flow states' and the behavior of exceptional achievers. He continued to develop \"Perpetual Cybernetics\" in conjunction with his \"Living Myths & Metaphors\" work to arrive at one, single, unified model: \"the Metaphors of Perception\". This work subsequently spawned several more models, including: \"Worlds Within a Word, Rhythms of Time\" (1995), and \"Meta-Patterns\" (1996).\n\nIn 2003, Faulkner co-authored with Steve Andreas to write NLP: The New Technology of Achievement. In the book, they write, “Lengthy struggle without success is a sign that what we’re doing isn’t working. It’s time to do something else, anything else. It’s time to realize that pain, struggle, suffering and waiting are signs that it’s time for another approach….\" The following year, he attended the \"NLP Conference and Festival\" at the University of Bristol, England. There Faulkner presented \"Awakening to the Social – An Introduction to Irresistible Influence.\" The following year he presented \"Expository Cartography,\" an introduction to advanced mind mapping techniques that could be used to disengage habitual biases and systematically enrich any model including the more complex ones such as the four-quadrant model of Ken Wilber. In 2006 at the \"NLP Conference in London\", he presented \"Training is for Dogs and Horses\", a bold challenge to the limiting approach in which NLP had previously been taught. In September 2007 Faulkner lectured at the London School of Economics to \"The Society for Organisational Learning(SOL-UK)\".\n\nFaulkner became a futures trader in the early 90's as a way to apply his NLP-based models for peak performance. He encouraged fellow traders who were breaking into the industry to use positive statements when journaling. Otherwise, a trader may wind up unconsciously setting in negative trading patterns. He said in a Futures (magazine) article, \"When you recall something, you reinforce it.\"\nHe is interviewed at length about his studies of futures traders in numerous books including: \"The New Market Wizards\" (1992), by Jack Schwager; \"The Outer Game of Trading\" (1994), by Robert Koppel & Howard Abell; and \"The Intuitive Trader\" (1996), by Robert Koppel; and \"Trend Following\" (2004), by Michael Covel. Three years later, Faulkner contributed a forward to the paperback edition of Trend Following.\n\nIn Chapter Five of \"The Intuitive Trader,\" by Robert Koppel, Charles Faulkner shares his insights on how to develop the intuition needed to be a successful trader. He defines intuition as “getting a solution and not knowing how you got there” and “an insight into something that's a result from your experience with it.” In other words, developed through expertise, intuition can be rephrased as an “educated inference.\"\nFaulkner identifies four barriers to identifying and trusting a true intuitive impulse: lack of awareness in the subtleties of emotions, including those caused by uncertainty; self-imposed limitations of trying to predict market moves; acting on mistaken intuitions, or “cognitive illusions;” and finally, being driven by fear or greed.\nOn the other hand, a successful intuitive trader has built his confidence as a result of a developed awareness of “subtle inner signals.” Bandler and Grinder—the founders of NLP—discovered early on that these inner signals consist of thoughts that are primarily sensory in nature. In fact, all thoughts, conscious and subconscious, arise as unique combinations of an individual's five senses. Conscious thinking will utilize a person's more developed senses; meanwhile, intuitive thought uses a person's least developed senses.\n\nFaulkner recommends that a new trader keep a dated journal of thoughts, feelings, ideas and insights related to the market. In time, the trader will notice certain patterns of how, when and where he receives intuitions. Moreover, a trader can see what happens when he follows an intuition, and—interestingly enough—what happens when he purposely makes a decision that goes counter to his intuition. Over time, having a passion for trading and diligently recording experiences will help a trader develop the awareness needed to trust those intuitive “leaps.”\nHowever, succeeding at trading is not without its requisite legwork which, according to Faulkner, lies in five key areas: market indicators, trading strategies and money management, emotional management, successful and supportive belief systems, and a winning “metaphoric mindset.” Finally, Koppel quotes The Outer Game of Trading, in which Faulkner briefly explores the dynamics of confidence and fear.\n\nIn April 2005, Charles Faulkner contributed to SFO magazine an article entitled, \"Inside the Counterintuitive World of Trend Followers: It's Not What You Think. It's What You Know.\" In this article, Faulkner examines a “trend-following philosophy” which he constructed after having observed the language patterns and behaviors of several top traders.\n\nThe counterintuitive strategy of trend followers is highlighted by seven general principles:\n\n1. No one can predict the future\n2. If you can look at \"what actually is,\" you have a big advantage over most human beings\n3. What matters can be measured, so keep refining your measurements\n4. You don’t need to know when something will happen to know that it will\n5. Prices can only move up, down or sideways\n6. Losses are a part of life\n7. There is only now\n\nFaulkner illustrates each principle by referring to the strategic mindsets of top traders such as John W. Henry, Bill Dunn, Ed Seykota, Jerry Parker, Richard Dennis, and Gerald Loeb.\n\nIn Charles Faulkner's DVD, \"Mastering High Risk Decision Making\", he presents how NLP techniques can be applied to decision making strategies within the world of trading. He examines the key traits to success shared by top traders. Specifically, successful traders know how to: separate understanding from action, attach to actions in lieu of emotions, prioritize risk management, and excel at being disciplined. Also, Faulkner shares NLP techniques that cultivate discipline, perfect goal-formulating and create a “decisive mind.\n\nNLP is largely considered pseudoscience, something which Faulkner has recognized:\n“If you want academic credibility, if you want respect from the established entities, whether they are psychological or medical or whatever, well, you have to play their game. If game sounds too flippant, then you have to meet their values. Have to meet their standards of evidence.”\nCharles Faulkner was a visiting Senior Fellow at the University of Surrey in the UK for its project entitled “Neuro-Linguistic Programming and Learning,” launched in June 2006. This research is one of the first funded NLP research projects to be conducted by a university, and it is led by Dr. Paul Tosey and Dr. Jane Mathison, the latter of whom was one of the first people ever to earn a PhD in neurolinguistic programming. Furthermore, On November 24, 2007 Faulkner presented neuroscience research at the NLP Conference in London. The session was entitled \"Metapatterns: The Biological Basis for How NLP Works\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87179", "title": "Closed-circuit television", "text": "Closed-circuit television\n\nClosed-circuit television (CCTV), also known as video surveillance, is the use of video cameras to transmit a signal to a specific place, on a limited set of monitors. It differs from broadcast television in that the signal is not openly transmitted, though it may employ point to point (P2P), point to multipoint (P2MP), or mesh wired or wireless links. Though almost all video cameras fit this definition, the term is most often applied to those used for surveillance in areas that may need monitoring such as banks, stores, and other areas where security is needed. Though Videotelephony is seldom called 'CCTV' one exception is the use of video in distance education, where it is an important tool.\n\nSurveillance of the public using CCTV is common in many areas around the world. In recent years, the use of body worn video cameras has been introduced as a new form of surveillance, often used in law enforcement, with cameras located on a police officer's chest or head. Video surveillance has generated significant debate about balancing its use with individuals' right to privacy even when in public.\n\nIn industrial plants, CCTV equipment may be used to observe parts of a process from a central control room, for example when the environment is not suitable for humans. CCTV systems may operate continuously or only as required to monitor a particular event. A more advanced form of CCTV, utilizing digital video recorders (DVRs), provides recording for possibly many years, with a variety of quality and performance options and extra features (such as motion detection and email alerts). More recently, decentralized IP cameras, perhaps equipped with megapixel sensors, support recording directly to network-attached storage devices, or internal flash for completely stand-alone operation.\n\nThere are about 350 million surveillance cameras worldwide as of 2016. About 65% of these cameras are installed in Asia. The growth of CCTV has been slowing in recent years.\n\nThe first CCTV system was installed by Siemens AG at Test Stand VII in Peenemünde, Nazi Germany in 1942, for observing the launch of V-2 rockets. The noted German engineer Walter Bruch was responsible for the technological design and installation of the system.\n\nIn the U.S. the first commercial closed-circuit television system became available in 1949, called Vericon. Very little is known about Vericon except it was advertised as not requiring a government permit.\n\nThe earliest video surveillance systems involved constant monitoring because there was no way to record and store information. The development of reel-to-reel media enabled the recording of surveillance footage. These systems required magnetic tapes to be changed manually, which was a time consuming, expensive and unreliable process, with the operator having to manually thread the tape from the tape reel through the recorder onto an empty take-up reel. Due to these shortcomings, video surveillance was not widespread. VCR technology became available in the 1970s, making it easier to record and erase information, and use of video surveillance became more common.\n\nDuring the 1990s, digital multiplexing was developed, allowing several cameras to record at once, as well as time lapse and motion-only recording. This increased savings of time and money which then led to an increase in the use of CCTV.\n\nRecently CCTV technology has been enhanced with a shift toward Internet-based products and systems, and other technological developments.\n\nClosed-circuit television was used as a form of pay-per-view theatre television for sports such as professional boxing and professional wrestling. Boxing telecasts were broadcast live to a select number of venues, mostly theaters, where viewers paid for tickets to watch the fight live. The first fight with a closed-circuit telecast was Joe Louis vs. Joe Walcott in 1948. Closed-circuit telecasts peaked in popularity with Muhammad Ali in the 1960s and 1970s, with \"The Rumble in the Jungle\" fight drawing 50million CCTV viewers worldwide in 1974, and the \"Thrilla in Manila\" drawing 100million CCTV viewers worldwide in 1975. Closed-circuit television was gradually replaced by pay-per-view home cable television in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn September 1968, Olean, New York was the first city in the United States to install video cameras along its main business street in an effort to fight crime. Another early appearance was in 1973 in Times Square in New York City. The NYPD installed it in order to deter crime that was occurring in the area; however, crime rates did not appear to drop much due to the cameras. Nevertheless, during the 1980s video surveillance began to spread across the country specifically targeting public areas. It was seen as a cheaper way to deter crime compared to increasing the size of the police departments. Some businesses as well, especially those that were prone to theft, began to use video surveillance. From the mid-1990s on, police departments across the country installed an increasing number of cameras in various public spaces including housing projects, schools and public parks departments. CCTV later became common in banks and stores to discourage theft, by recording evidence of criminal activity. In 1998, 3,000 CCTV systems were in use in New York City. A study by Nieto in 2008 found many businesses in the United States had invested heavily in video surveillance technology to protect products and promote safe workplace and consumer environments. A nationwide survey of a wide variety of companies found that 75 percent utilize CCTV surveillance. In private sector CCTV surveillance technology is operated in a wide variety of establishments such as in industry/manufacturing, retailing, financial/insurance/banking, transportation and distribution, utilities/communications, health care, and hotels/motels, parking areas, jewelry shops.\n\nExperiments in the UK during the 1970s and 1980s, including outdoor CCTV in Bournemouth in 1985, led to several larger trial programs later that decade. The first use by local government was in King's Lynn, Norfolk, in 1987. These were deemed successful in the government report \"CCTV: Looking Out For You\", issued by the Home Office in 1994, and paved the way for an increase in the number of CCTV systems installed. Today, systems cover most town and city centres, and many stations, car-parks and estates.\n\nA 2009 systematic review by researchers from Northeastern University and University of Cambridge used meta-analytic techniques to pool the average effect of CCTV on crime across 41 different studies. The results indicated that\n\nThe studies included in the meta-analysis used quasi-experimental evaluation designs that involve before-and-after measures of crime in experimental and control areas. However, several researchers have pointed to methodological problems associated with this research literature. First, researchers have argued that the British car park studies included in the meta-analysis cannot accurately control for the fact that CCTV was introduced simultaneously with a range of other security-related measures. Second, some have noted that, in many of the studies, there may be issues with selection bias since the introduction of CCTV was potentially endogenous to previous crime trends. In particular, the estimated effects may be biased if CCTV is introduced in response to crime trends.\n\nIt has been argued that problems of selection bias and endogeneity can be addressed by stronger research designs such as randomized controlled trials and natural experiments. A 2017 review published in Journal of Scandinavian Studies in Criminology and Crime Prevention compiles seven studies that use such research designs. The studies included in the review found that CCTV reduced crime by 24-28% in public streets and urban subway stations. It also found that CCTV could decrease unruly behaviour in football stadiums and theft in supermarkets/mass merchant stores. However, there was no evidence of CCTV having desirable effects in parking facilities or suburban subway stations. Furthermore, the review indicates that CCTV is more effective in preventing property crimes than in violent crimes.\n\nAnother question in the effectiveness of CCTV for policing is around uptime of the system; in 2013 City of Philadelphia Auditor found that the $15M system was operational only 32% of the time. There is still much research to be done to determine the effectiveness of CCTV cameras on crime prevention before any conclusions can be drawn.\n\nThere is strong anecdotal evidence that CCTV aids in detection and conviction of offenders; indeed UK police forces routinely seek CCTV recordings after crimes. Moreover, CCTV has played a crucial role in tracing the movements of suspects or victims and is widely regarded by antiterrorist officers as a fundamental tool in tracking terrorist suspects. Large-scale CCTV installations have played a key part of the defences against terrorism since the 1970s. Cameras have also been installed on public transport in the hope of deterring crime, and in mobile police surveillance vehicles, often with automatic number plate recognition, and a network of APNI-linked cameras is used to manage London's congestion charging zone.\n\nA more open question is whether most CCTV is cost-effective. While low-quality domestic kits are cheap the professional installation and maintenance of high definition CCTV is expensive. Gill and Spriggs did a Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) of CCTV in crime prevention that showed little monetary saving with the installation of CCTV as most of the crimes prevented resulted in little monetary loss. Critics however noted that benefits of non-monetary value cannot be captured in a traditional Cost Effectiveness Analysis and were omitted from their study. A 2008 Report by UK Police Chiefs concluded that only 3% of crimes were solved by CCTV. In London, a Metropolitan Police report showed that in 2008 only one crime was solved per 1000 cameras. In some cases CCTV cameras have become a target of attacks themselves.\n\nCities such as Manchester in the UK are using DVR-based technology to improve accessibility for crime prevention.\n\nIn October 2009, an \"Internet Eyes\" website was announced which would pay members of the public to view CCTV camera images from their homes and report any crimes they witnessed. The site aimed to add \"more eyes\" to cameras which might be insufficiently monitored. Civil liberties campaigners criticized the idea as \"a distasteful and a worrying development\".\n\nIn 2013 Oaxaca hired deaf police officers to lip read conversations to uncover criminal conspiracies.\n\nIn Singapore, since 2012, thousands of CCTV cameras have helped deter loan sharks, nab litterbugs and stop illegal parking, according to government figures.\n\nIn recent years, the use of body worn video cameras has been introduced for a number of uses. For example, as a new form of surveillance in law enforcement, with cameras located on a police officer's chest or head.\n\nIndustrial processes that take place under conditions dangerous for humans are today often supervised by CCTV. These are mainly processes in the chemical industry, the interior of reactors or facilities for manufacture of nuclear fuel. Special cameras for some of these purposes include line-scan cameras and thermographic cameras which allow operators to measure the temperature of the processes. The usage of CCTV in such processes is sometimes required by law. \n\nMany cities and motorway networks have extensive traffic-monitoring systems, using closed-circuit television to detect congestion and notice accidents. Many of these cameras however, are owned by private companies and transmit data to drivers' GPS systems.\n\nThe UK Highways Agency has a publicly owned CCTV network of over 3000 Pan-Tilt-Zoom cameras covering the British motorway and trunk road network. These cameras are primarily used to monitor traffic conditions and are not used as speed cameras. With the addition of fixed cameras for the active traffic management system, the number of cameras on the Highways Agency's CCTV network is likely to increase significantly over the next few years.\n\nThe London congestion charge is enforced by cameras positioned at the boundaries of and inside the congestion charge zone, which automatically read the licence plates of cars. If the driver does not pay the charge then a fine will be imposed. Similar systems are being developed as a means of locating cars reported stolen.\n\nOther surveillance cameras serve as traffic enforcement cameras.\n\nA CCTV system may be installed where any example, on a Driver-only operated train CCTV cameras may allow the driver to confirm that people are clear of doors before closing them and starting the train.\n\nMany sporting events in the United States use CCTV inside the venue for fans to see the action while they are away from their seats. The cameras send the feed to a central control center where a producer selects feeds to send to the television monitors that fans can view. CCTV monitors for viewing the event by attendees are often placed in lounges, hallways, and restrooms. This use of CCTV is not used for surveillance purposes.\n\nOrganizations use CCTV to monitor the actions of workers. Every action is recorded as an information block with subtitles that explain the performed operation. This helps to track the actions of workers, especially when they are making critical financial transactions, such as correcting or cancelling of a sale, withdrawing money or altering personal information.\n\nActions which an employer may wish to monitor could include:\n\nEach of these operations is transmitted with a description, allowing detailed monitoring of all actions of the operator. Some systems allow the user to search for a specific event by time of occurrence and text description, and perform statistical evaluation of operator behaviour. This allows the software to predict deviations from the standard workflow and record only anomalous behaviour.\n\nIn the United States, Britain, Australia and New Zealand, CCTV is widely used in schools due to its success in preventing bullying, vandalism, monitoring visitors and maintaining a record of evidence in the event of a crime. There are some restrictions on installation, with cameras not being installed in an area where there is a \"reasonable expectation of privacy\", such as bathrooms, gym locker areas and private offices (unless consent by the office occupant is given). Сameras are generally acceptable in hallways, parking lots, front offices where students, employees, and parents come and go, gymnasiums, cafeterias, supply rooms and classrooms. The installation of cameras in classrooms may be objected to by some teachers.\n\nCriminals may use surveillance cameras to monitor the public. For example, a hidden camera at an ATM can capture people's PINs as they are entered, without their knowledge. The devices are small enough not to be noticed, and are placed where they can monitor the keypad of the machine as people enter their PINs. Images may be transmitted wirelessly to the criminal. Even lawful surveillance cameras sometimes have their data go into the hands of people who have no legal right to receive it.\n\nCCTV systems are often used for security monitoring purposes in organizations and homes.\n\nThere are an estimated 350 million surveillance cameras worldwide as of 2016 compared with about 160 million in 2012. The growth of CCTV has been slowing in recent years.\n\nAbout 65% of CCTV cameras in the world are installed in Asia. In Asia, different human activities attracted the use of surveillance camera systems and services, including but not limited to business and related industries, transportation, sports, and care for the environment.\n\nIn 2018, China was reported to have a huge surveillance network of over 170 million CCTV cameras with 400 million new cameras expected be installed in the next three years, many of which use facial recognition technology.\n\nThere were an estimated 30 million surveillance cameras in the United States in 2011. Video surveillance has been common in the United States since the 1990s; for example, one manufacturer reported net earnings of $120 million in 1995. With lower cost and easier installation, sales of home security cameras increased in the early 21st century. Following the September 11 attacks, the use of video surveillance in public places became more common to deter future terrorist attacks. Under the Homeland Security Grant Program, government grants are available for cities to install surveillance camera networks. In 2009, there were an estimated 15,000 CCTV systems in Chicago, many linked to an integrated camera network. New York City's Domain Awareness System has 6,000 video surveillance cameras linked together, there are over 4,000 cameras on the subway system (although nearly half of them do not work), and two-thirds of large apartment and commercial buildings use video surveillance cameras. In the Washington D.C.-area, there are more than 30,000 surveillance cameras in schools, and the Metro has nearly 6,000 cameras in use across the system.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the vast majority of CCTV cameras are not operated by government bodies, but by private individuals or companies, especially to monitor the interiors of shops and businesses. According to 2011 Freedom of Information Act requests, the total number of local government operated CCTV cameras was around 52,000 over the entirety of the UK.\n\nAlthough specific legalities of running a home CCTV system in the UK are rather vague there are published rules and regulations that although are mostly common sense, do include some laws that most people may not be aware of, including registering with ICO as a data controller if any CCTV camera catch images of any of the public on, or outside of your property.\n\nAn article published in \"CCTV Image\" magazine estimated the number of private and local government operated cameras in the United Kingdom was 1.85 million in 2011. The estimate was based on extrapolating from a comprehensive survey of public and private cameras within the Cheshire Constabulary jurisdiction. This works out as an average of one camera for every 32 people in the UK, although the density of cameras varies greatly from place to place. The Cheshire report also claims that the average person on a typical day would be seen by 70 CCTV cameras.\n\nThe Cheshire figure is regarded as more dependable than a previous study by Michael McCahill and Clive Norris of \"UrbanEye\" published in 2002. Based on a small sample in Putney High Street, McCahill and Norris extrapolated the number of surveillance cameras in Greater London to be around 500,000 and the total number of cameras in the UK to be around 4,200,000. According to their estimate the UK has one camera for every 14 people. Although it has been acknowledged for several years that the methodology behind this figure is flawed, it has been widely quoted. Furthermore, the figure of 500,000 for Greater London is often confused with the figure for the police and local government operated cameras in the City of London, which was about 650 in 2011.\n\nThe \"CCTV User Group\" estimated that there were around 1.5 million private and local government CCTV cameras in city centres, stations, airports, and major retail areas in the UK. This figure does not include the smaller surveillance systems such as those that may be found in local corner shops and is therefore broadly in line with the Cheshire report.\n\nResearch conducted by the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research and based on a survey of all Scottish local authorities, identified that there are over 2,200 public space CCTV cameras in Scotland.\n\nDefra made it legal in 2017 to have all Abbatoirs in the UK now covered by CCTV to prevent cruelty to animals during the slaughter process.\n\nProject SCRAM is a policing effort by the Halton Regional Police Service to register and help consumers understand the complex issues of privacy and safety that confront households when dealing with installations of home security systems. \"The SCRAM program enables community members to voluntarily identify and register their residential video surveillance equipment through a simple, secure, confidential, online form.\". It has not been extended to commercial businesses. A wide-ranging effort to provide registration and monitoring of home security and systems. \"Security camera registration and monitoring is a community-based crime prevention opportunity and investigative tool that enlists the help of residents and can help prevent crime on three levels. Residential video surveillance cameras can deter criminals from entering the area, can prevent crimes from occurring and help solve crimes by providing valuable evidence to the police.\"\n\nIn South Africa due to the high crime rate CCTV surveillance is widely prevalent but the country has been slow to implement the latest technology e.g. the first IP camera was released in 1996 by Axis Communications but IP cameras didn't arrive in South Africa till 2008. In order to regulate the number of suppliers in 2001 the Private Security Industry Regulation Act was passed requiring all security companies to be registered with the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (PSIRA).\n\nIn Latin America, the CCTV market is growing rapidly with the increase of property crime.\n\nMaterial collected by surveillance cameras has been used as a tool in post-event forensics to identify tactics, techniques and perpetrators of terrorist attacks. Furthermore, there are various projects − such as INDECT − that aim to detect suspicious behaviours of individuals and crowds. It has been argued that terrorists won't be deterred by cameras, that terror attacks aren't really the subject of the current use of video surveillance and that terrorists might even see it as an extra channel for propaganda and publication of their acts. In Germany calls for extended video surveillance by the country's main political parties, SPD, CDU and CSU have been dismissed as \"little more than a placebo for a subjective feeling of security\".\n\nMany civil liberties campaign groups, academics and consultants have published research papers into CCTV systems. Opponents of CCTV point out the loss of privacy of people under surveillance, and the negative impact of surveillance on civil liberties. Furthermore, they argue that CCTV displaces crime, rather than reducing it. Critics often dub CCTV as \"Big Brother surveillance\", a reference to George Orwell's novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", which featured a two-way telescreen in every home through which The Party would monitor the populace.\n\nProponents of CCTV cameras argue that cameras are effective at deterring and solving crime, and that appropriate regulation and legal restrictions on surveillance of \"public\" spaces can provide sufficient protections so that an individual's right to privacy can reasonably be weighed against the benefits of surveillance. However, anti-surveillance activists have held that there is a right to privacy in public areas. Furthermore, while it is true that there may be scenarios wherein a person's right to public privacy can be both reasonably and justifiably compromised, some scholars have argued that such situations are so rare as to not sufficiently warrant the frequent compromising of public privacy rights that occurs in regions with widespread CCTV surveillance. For example, in her book \"Setting the Watch: Privacy and the Ethics of CCTV Surveillance\", Beatrice von Silva-Tarouca Larsen argues that CCTV surveillance is ethically permissible only in \"certain restrictively defined situations\", such as when a specific location has a \"comprehensively documented and significant criminal threat\". Her central reasoning is that widespread CCTV surveillance violates citizens' rights to privacy and anonymity within the public sphere by jeopardizing both their liberty and dignity. She concludes that CCTV surveillance should therefore be reserved for specific circumstances in which there are clear and reasonably demonstrated benefits to its implementation and few ethical compromises.\n\nIn the United States, the Constitution does not explicitly include the right to privacy although the Supreme Court has said several of the amendments to the Constitution implicitly grant this right. Access to video surveillance recordings may require a judge's writ, which is readily available. However, there is little legislation and regulation specific to video surveillance.\n\nAll countries in the European Union are signatories to the European Convention on Human Rights which protects individual rights including the right to privacy. The EU's Data Protection Directive regulates access to personal data including CCTV recordings. This directive is translated into the national law of each country within the European Union.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the Data Protection Act 1998 imposes legal restrictions on the uses of CCTV recordings and mandates the registration of CCTV systems with the Data Protection Agency. In 2004, the successor to the Data Protection Agency, the Information Commissioner's Office clarified that this required registration of all CCTV systems with the Commissioner, and prompt deletion of archived recordings. However, subsequent case law (Durant vs. FSA) limited the scope of the protection provided by this law, and not all CCTV systems are currently regulated. Nonetheless, private sector personnel in the UK who operate or monitor CCTV devices or systems are considered security guards and have been made subject to state licensing.\n\nA 2007 report by the UK Information Commissioner's Office, highlighted the need for the public to be made more aware of the growing use of surveillance and the potential impact on civil liberties. In the same year, a campaign group claimed the majority of CCTV cameras in the UK are operated illegally or are in breach of privacy guidelines. In response, the Information Commissioner's Office rebutted the claim and added that any reported abuses of the Data Protection Act are swiftly investigated. Even if there are some concerns arising from the use of CCTV such as involving privacy, more commercial establishments are still installing CCTV systems in the UK.\n\nIn 2012, the UK government enacted the Protection of Freedoms Act which includes several provisions related to controlling and restricting the collection, storage, retention, and use of information about individuals. Under this Act, the Home Office published a code of practice in 2013 for the use of surveillance cameras by government and local authorities. The aim of the code is to help ensure their use is \"characterised as surveillance by consent, and such consent on the part of the community must be informed consent and not assumed by a system operator. Surveillance by consent should be regarded as analogous to policing by consent.\"\n\nIn Canada, the use of video surveillance has grown very rapidly. In Ontario, both the \"municipal\" and \"provincial\" versions of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act outline very specific guidelines that control how \"images\" and \"information\" can be gathered by this method and or released.\n\nIn Sweden, the use of CCTV in public spaces is nationally regulated; requiring permits for any operator (incl. Swedish Police Authority) to install CCTV in public spaces. In an opinion poll commissioned by Lund University in August 2017, the general public of Sweden were asked to choose one measure that would ensure their need for privacy when subject to CCTV-operation in public spaces. 43% favored regulation in the form of clear routines for managing, storing and distributing image material generated from surveillance cameras, 39% favored regulation in the form of clear signage informing that camera surveillance in public spaces is present, 2% favored regulation in the form of having permits restricting the use of surveillance cameras during certain times of day/week, 10% favored regulation in the form of having restrictive policies for issuing permits for surveillance cameras in public spaces. 6% were unsure or did not know.\n\nComputer-controlled cameras can identify, track, and categorize objects in their field of view.\n\nVideo content analysis (VCA) is the capability of automatically analyzing video to detect and determine temporal events not based on a single image, but rather object classification. As such, it can be seen as the automated equivalent of the biological visual cortex.\n\nA system using VCA can recognize changes in the environment and even identify and compare objects in the database using size, speed, and sometimes colour. The camera's actions can be programmed based on what it is \"seeing\". For example; an alarm can be issued if an object has moved in a certain area, or if a painting is missing from a wall, or if a smoke or fire is detected, or if running people are detected, or if fallen people are detected and if someone has spray painted the lens, as well as video loss, lens cover, defocus and other so called camera tampering events.\n\nVCA analytics can also be used to detect unusual patterns in an environment. The system can be set to detect anomalies in a crowd, for instance a person moving in the opposite direction in airports where passengers are supposed to walk only in one direction out of a plane or in a subway where people are not supposed to exit through the entrances.\n\nVCA can track people on a map by calculating their position from the images. It is then possible to link many cameras and track a person through an entire building or area. This can allow a person to be followed without having to analyze many hours of film. Currently the cameras have difficulty identifying individuals from video alone, but if connected to a key-card system, identities can be established and displayed as a tag over their heads on the video.\n\nThere is also a significant difference in where the VCA technology is placed, either the data is being processed within the cameras (on the edge) or by a centralized server. Both technologies have their pros and cons.\n\nA facial recognition system is a computer application for automatically identifying or verifying a person from a digital image or a video frame from a video source. One of the ways to do this is by comparing selected facial features from the image and a facial database.\n\nThe combination of CCTV and facial recognition has been tried as a form of mass surveillance, but has been ineffective because of the low discriminating power of facial recognition technology and the very high number of false positives generated. This type of system has been proposed to compare faces at airports and seaports with those of suspected terrorists or other undesirable entrants.\n\nComputerized monitoring of CCTV images is under development, so that a human CCTV operator does not have to endlessly look at all the screens, allowing an operator to observe many more CCTV cameras. These systems do not observe people directly. Insta Types of body-movement behavior, or particular types of clothing or baggage.\n\nTo many, the development of CCTV in public areas, linked to computer databases of people's pictures and identity, presents a serious breach of civil liberties. Conservative critics fear the possibility that one would no longer have anonymity in public places. Demonstrations or assemblies in public places could be affected as the state would be able to collate lists of those leading them, taking part, or even just talking with protesters in the street.\n\nComparatively harmless are people counter systems. They use CCTV equipment as front end eyes of devices which perform shape recognition technology in order to identify objects as human beings and count people passing pre-defined areas.\n\nMost CCTV systems may record and store digital video and images to a digital video recorder (DVR) or, in the case of IP cameras, directly to a server, either on-site or offsite.\n\nThere is a cost in the retention of the images produced by CCTV systems. The amount and quality of data stored on storage media is subject to compression ratios, images stored per second, image size and is effected by the retention period of the videos or images. DVRs store images in a variety of proprietary file formats. Recordings may be retained for a preset amount of time and then automatically archived, overwritten or deleted, the period being determined by the organisation that generated them.\n\nClosed-circuit digital photography (CCDP) is more suited for capturing and saving recorded high-resolution photographs, whereas closed-circuit television (CCTV) is more suitable for live-monitoring purposes.\n\nHowever, an important feature of some CCTV systems is the ability to take high resolution images of the camera scene, e.g. on a time lapse or motion-detection basis. Images taken with a digital still camera often have higher resolution than those taken with some video cameras. Increasingly, low-cost high-resolution digital still cameras can also be used for CCTV purposes.\n\nImages may be monitored remotely when the computer is connected to a network.\n\nA growing branch in CCTV is \"internet protocol\" cameras (IP cameras). It is estimated that 2014 was the first year that IP cameras outsold analog cameras. IP cameras use the Internet Protocol (IP) used by most Local Area Networks (LANs) to transmit video across data networks in digital form. IP can optionally be transmitted across the public internet, allowing users to view their cameras through any internet connection available through a computer or a phone, this is considered remote access. For professional or public infrastructure security applications, IP video is restricted to within a private network or VPN, or can be recorded onto a remote server.\n\nThe city of Chicago operates a networked video surveillance system which combines CCTV video feeds of government agencies with those of the private sector, installed in city buses, businesses, public schools, subway stations, housing projects etc. Even homeowners are able to contribute footage. It is estimated to incorporate the video feeds of a total of 15,000 cameras.\n\nThe system is used by Chicago's Office of Emergency Management in case of an emergency call: it detects the caller's location and instantly displays the real-time video feed of the nearest security camera to the operator, not requiring any user intervention. While the system is far too vast to allow complete real-time monitoring, it stores the video data for later usage in order to provide possible evidence in criminal cases.\n\nNew York City has a similar network called the Domain Awareness System.\n\nLondon also has a network of CCTV systems that allows multiple authorities to view and control CCTV cameras in real time. The system allows authorities including the Metropolitan Police Service, Transport for London and a number of London boroughs to share CCTV images between them. It uses a network protocol called Television Network Protocol to allow access to many more cameras than each individual system owner could afford to run and maintain.\n\nThe Glynn County Police Department uses a wireless mesh-networked system of portable battery-powered tripods for live megapixel video surveillance and central monitoring of tactical police situations. The systems can be used either on a stand-alone basis with secure communications to nearby police laptops, or within a larger mesh system with multiple tripods feeding video back to the command vehicle via wireless, and to police headquarters via 3G.\n\nIntegrated systems allow different security systems, like CCTV, access control, intruder alarms and intercoms to operate together. For example, when an intruder alarm is activated, CCTV cameras covering the intrusion area are recorded at a higher frame rate and transmitted to an Alarm Receiving Centre.\n\nMany consumers are turning to wireless security cameras for home surveillance. Wireless cameras do not require a video cable for video/audio transmission, simply a cable for power. Wireless cameras are also easy and inexpensive to install, but lack the reliability of hard-wired cameras. Previous generations of wireless security cameras relied on analog technology; modern wireless cameras use digital technology which delivers crisper audio, sharper video, and a secure and interference-free signal.\n\nIn Wiltshire, UK, 2003, a pilot scheme for what is now known as \"Talking CCTV\" was put into action; allowing operators of CCTV cameras to order offenders to stop what they were doing, ranging from ordering subjects to pick up their rubbish and put it in a bin to ordering groups of vandals to disperse. In 2005 Ray Mallon, the mayor and former senior police officer of Middlesbrough implemented \"Talking CCTV\" in his area.\n\nOther towns have had such cameras installed. In 2007 several of the devices were installed in Bridlington town centre, East Riding of Yorkshire.\n\nDue to the widespread implementation of surveillance cameras, glasses are being built which can defeat CCTV cameras. In December 2016 a form of anti-CCTV and facial recognition sunglasses called 'reflectacles' were invented by a custom-spectacle-craftsmen based in Chicago named Scott Urban. They reflect infrared and, optionally, visible light which makes the users face a white blur to cameras. The project easily surpassed its funding goal of $28,000 and reflectacles will be commercially available by June 2017.\n\nUnless physically protected, CCTV cameras have been found to be vulnerable against a variety of (mostly illegal) tactics:\n\n\nThe security camera installation cost in Los Angeles, United States ranges from US$300 to US$3,500. On average, however, the cost can be anywhere from US$893 – US$2,267. The price will go up depending on specific requirements or the extent of the security that will be required.\n\nAmong other factors, the specific type of camera being used has the most significant impact on its cost. The average cost of two digital cameras packaged with an LCD monitor is around US$450. Different brands can also have different prices. The type of technology used also has an impact of security camera installation cost. Wireless camera systems are generally more expensive than their wired counterparts.\n\nThe specific type of software that is being used also has a role to play on its price. On average, professional level software is offered at US$75, with some of them requiring annual fees for membership. Network attached storage or DVR, used for storing recorded video, will also be part of the cost. On average, that can cost about US$499. This will depend on the storage capacity and other features of the device chosen by the user.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "406533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406533", "title": "Competency evaluation (language)", "text": "Competency evaluation (language)\n\nIn applied linguistics and educational psychology, competency evaluation is a means for teachers to determine the ability of their students in other ways besides the standardized test. \n\nUsually this includes portfolio assessment. In language testing, it may also include student interviews and checklists (e.g., on a scale from 1 to 5 the student or teacher rates his or her ability to do such tasks as introducing one's family).\n\nWhile various governments in Europe and Canada often employ competency evaluation to evaluate bilingual abilities of public employees, it has only recently begun to receive attention from the United States where large testing corporations have dominated language evaluation with financially lucrative performance tests such as the TOEFL, MCAT and SAT tests.\n\nIn psychology, competency can be evaluation to cover civil affairs, such as competency to handle personal finances, and competency to handle personal affairs (such as signing contracts).\n\n"}
{"id": "46532573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46532573", "title": "Culturally Responsive Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports", "text": "Culturally Responsive Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports\n\nCulturally Responsive Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (CRPBIS) is an ongoing statewide research project founded by Dr. Aydin Bal in 2011. The purpose of CRPBIS is to re-mediate school cultures that reproduce behavioral outcome disparities and marginalization of non-dominant students and families. CRPBIS is conducted at the Wisconsin Center for Education Research at the School of Education, University of Wisconsin-Madison. CRPBIS develops, utilizes, and researches processes and interventions such as Learning Lab to create locally meaningful and sustainable systemic transformations together with local stakeholders (educators, families, students, community representatives). \nLearning Lab is an innovative methodology of systemic transformation, informed by Cultural-Historical Activity Theory (CHAT) (Bal, 2015; Engestrom, 2008).\nAs a part of CRPBIS, local schools create teams with members of their communities to identify and understand systemic problems (e.g., racial disproportionality in school disciplinary actions) within their own schools, propose new solutions, and examine the effectiveness of their solutions.\n"}
{"id": "15781401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15781401", "title": "Curriculum guideline", "text": "Curriculum guideline\n\nThe legal extent of the standard has been unclear. While the standard is not a law per se, court cases in the past have shown that it is legally binding to some extent. For example, in 1990, the High Court in Fukuoka ruled that a prefectural high school lawfully fired its teacher who taught a course in a way that violated curriculum guidelines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20922800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20922800", "title": "Detention: The Siege at Johnson High", "text": "Detention: The Siege at Johnson High\n\nDetention: The Siege at Johnson High (also known as Hostage High and Target for Rage) is a 1997 American made-for-television thriller drama film based on the 1992 Lindhurst High School shooting and siege that resulted in the death of four people. The film, written by Larry Golin and directed by Michael W. Watkins, stars Rick Schroder, Freddie Prinze Jr., Katie Wright, Ryan Christopher Mouritsen, Alexis Cruz and Henry Winkler. It was originally broadcast on CBS on 19 May 1997.\n\nYears ago, Jason Copeland, now 24, failed his final exams and did not graduate Johnson High School, for which he still holds his History teacher, Mr. Kroft responsible. He decides to take revenge and enters the school with a 12-gauge shotgun, a revolver, and a massive supply of ammunition. He first starts shooting around, hitting several students. After shooting Mr. Kroft, he decides to take as many hostages as possible in one room. Among them is Aaron Sullivan, a gifted but lazy student who is assigned to answer the phone. Meanwhile, Frankie Rodriguez, the class clown, is ordered to be the message boy, picking up and delivering information and other things from the FBI to Jason. \n\nSkip Fine is the only hostage negotiator in town, despite being generally regarded as less than the brightest penny on the local police force. Over the telephone he attempts to convince Jason to release his hostages and is almost successful, until Jason suddenly hears a noise from the halls. Frankie is set out to locate the remaining persons in the building and although he finds a filled classroom, he returns with only one pupil. Jason soon realizes there are others still in the building when he hears an FBI agent trying to break into that room. He ends up shooting him and taking the remaining students hostage. \n\nMeanwhile, Skip decides to quit, feeling he is not prepared enough to be involved with such a responsible job. Jason, however, refuses to talk to the FBI and insists on speaking to Skip only. From this point, Jason softens up, allowing the hostages to order food. Not realizing the seriousness of the situation, most hostages still think Jason is only using the weapons as a threat, and most of them do not realize he has already fatally shot people, including Mr. Kroft. Meanwhile, Aaron wins Jason's trust and is able to deliver local cop Matt Eckert a list with the names of all 62 hostages. Matt is shocked to find out that among them is his daughter Samantha. On his way back, Aaron and Frankie find the body of Travis McGill, one of the few students killed, and they finally realize how dangerous Jason really is.\n\nAfter being back in the room where the people are taken hostage, Aaron is allowed to let 15 people go. He offers Samantha to be one of them, but she insists on staying. When Jason finds out six students have already been rumored to be killed, he loses his temper and puts a gun to Samantha's head. Skip, however, is able to talk him out of shooting her. Afterwards, he loses his attention for a moment, during which Aaron and Samantha help several people escape. A sniper is ready to shoot Jason, but Skip insists on convincing Jason to give himself up instead. Soon, another 20 students are released and Jason signs a contract in which he agrees to let go the remaining hostages if he is sent to jail for under five years.\n\nDespite an attempted attack on Jason by Frankie, for killing Travis, every student is eventually released. Jason thanks Aaron for his help and gives himself over to the police afterwards. Aaron and Samantha are embraced as the heroes of the tragedy and Jason is sent to death row for killing four people.\n\n"}
{"id": "900407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900407", "title": "DigiPen Institute of Technology", "text": "DigiPen Institute of Technology\n\nDigiPen Institute of Technology is a private, for-profit university in Redmond, Washington. DigiPen has campuses in Redmond, Washington, in Singapore, and in Bilbao, Spain. DigiPen offers bachelor's and master's degree programs in Computer Science, Animation, Video Game Development, Game Design, Sound Design, and Computer Engineering.\n\nDigiPen also offers summer programs for students in grades K-12, online courses and year-long high school programs.\n\nIn 1988, DigiPen was founded by Claude Comair in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada as a research and development institute for computer science and animation.\n\nIn 1990, DigiPen began offering its first dedicated educational program in the subject of 3D computer animation through the Vancouver Film School.\n\nIn 1990, DigiPen began offering a 3D animation program and began collaborating with Nintendo of America to create a post-secondary program for video game programming. With Nintendo's support, DigiPen Applied Computer Graphics School accepted its first class of video game programming students in 1994.\n\nIn 1996, the Washington State Higher Education Coordinating Board (HECB) granted DigiPen the authorization to award degree programs in the United States. DigiPen’s first offered degree program was the Bachelor of Science in Real-Time Interactive Simulation.\n\nIn 1998, DigiPen Institute of Technology opened its campus in Redmond, Washington as a joint campus between DigiPen and Nintendo Software Technology. Redmond became DigiPen’s home.\n\nIn 2002, DigiPen received national accreditation from the ACCSC. DigiPen began offering its first Masters program, a Masters of Science in Computer Science. DigiPen graduated its last classes in its Associate programs, and only offered Undergraduate and Postgraduate programs.\n\nIn 2008, DigiPen Institute of Technology opened its campus in Singapore in conjunction with Singapore’s Economic Development Board.\n\nIn 2010, DigiPen relocated its main campus to an independent location, still in Redmond, Washington. DigiPen Institute of Technology Singapore joined the public university Singapore Institute of Technology.\n\nIn 2011, DigiPen Institute of Technology opened its campus in the Greater Bilbao area, in the municipality of Zierbena.\n\nIn 2015, DigiPen’s Singapore campus moved to the Singapore Polytechnic campus, while Singapore Institute of Technology’s joint campus began development. DigiPen's Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering received ABET accreditation.\n\nDigiPen’s main campus is located in Redmond, Washington on 9931 Willows Road. It offers 8 undergraduate and 2 postgraduate degree programs. It has approximately 1200 full-time students with a faculty-to-student ratio of 1:11 and an average class size of 22. International students make up 13% of the total student population. 24% of students are women. There are approximately 50 student run organizations on campus. King County is the home to a significant number of technology and game development companies.\n\nDigiPen’s Singapore campus is DigiPen’s first international campus since its establishment in the United States. DigiPen opened its Singapore campus in conjunction with Singapore’s Economic Development Board in 2008. DigiPen operates as an Overseas University Affiliate with the public university Singapore Institute of Technology. DigiPen’s Singapore campus offers 5 undergraduate degree programs, including a Bachelor of Engineering with Honours in Systems Engineering (ElectroMechanical Systems) which is not offered in any other campus. DigiPen’s Singapore campus has approximately 900 full-time students.\n\nDigiPen’s Europe campus is located in the municipal region of Zierbena, Spain on Virgen del Puerto Kalea. It offers 2 undergraduate degree programs, with approximately 150 full-time students.\n\n\n\nDigiPen is nationally accredited by the ACCSC. DigiPen's Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Real-Time Interactive Simulation and Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering are ABET accredited.\n\nDigiPen Research & Development performs research for The Boeing Company and has received the commendations of Boeing Supplier of the Year Award in Technology in 2008 and Boeing Performance Excellence Award in 2008, 2013, and 2014. DigiPen has a professional relationship with Phantom Works and BR&T.\n\nDigiPen Research & Development is active in the research in Formula 1 and INDYCAR, and is technical sponsor of Renault F1 (2008–present) and Andretti Autosport (2015–present).\n\nDigiPen has been criticized for asserting ownership over the copyright of work performed by their students.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28261768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28261768", "title": "ESN vid Åbo Akademi r.f.", "text": "ESN vid Åbo Akademi r.f.\n\nESN vid Åbo Akademi r.f. (also known as ESN Åbo Akademi or ESN ÅA) is the official ESN section of the Erasmus Student Network at Åbo Akademi University, the only Swedish-speaking multidisciplinary university in Finland. Even if \"ESN\" stands for Erasmus Student Network, referring to the European Erasmus programme, the section doesn't limit its program to only European students but focuses on all international minded students in Åbo (in Finnish Turku), Finland.\n\nESN Åbo Akademi was founded 1994 and is the second oldest ESN Section in Finland. Historically ESN Åbo Akademi has been a very active section being the first one in Finland to officially register at the national association office, and having had several former actives working on the ESN International level.\n\nThe section aims at fostering the integration between international students and local students in Åbo, Finland. This is done by organizing trips, both within Finland and abroad, cultural events, parties, sport events, etc.\n\nÅbo Akademi University has every year over 200 exchange students and hundreds of international students and researchers. The international students reach over 10% of the total number of students in the university which makes Åbo Akademi University the most international university in Finland.\n\nThe association aims at fostering the integration between the exchange students and the local students at Åbo Akademi University and to improve the well-being of the exchange students in Åbo. The section organizes trips, parties, sport and cultural events, etc.\n\nIn Åbo there is, except ESN ÅA, also two other ESN sections: ESN IAC and ESN Uni Turku. Together with ESN ÅA the three sections form the unofficial ESN Turku - Åbo, which organizes most of the biggest ESN events in the city.\n\nESN ÅA joined the ESN network in 1994, and is the second oldest ESN section in Finland. The section has been, since it was founded, very active on all levels - Local, National and International, having had several National Representatives representing Finland on the international level, and also having had board members in the ESN International board, the most prestige duties within the ESN organization.\n\nDuring recent years ESN Åbo Akademi has cooperated a lot with the two other ESN sections in Turku and so improved its activities notably. ESN Åbo Akademi has also taken a very active role in the work of the new, in 2010 registered, ESN Finland ry., being responsible for several projects within this organization.\n\nBeing from the only Swedish-speaking multidisciplinary university in Finland, ESN Åbo Akademi has during the years established some traditions different from other ESN Sections in Finland. The most important is the Sitz Parties, a tradition involving informal dinner parties including a lot of singing. This tradition comes originally from Sweden, but has a long history within the Swedish-speaking minority in Finland.\n\nIn Finland an important tradition is the student boilersuits used by the students especially during informal parties. ESN gots since 2009 also its own ones. ESN in Åbo/Turku was the first city in Finland to get own boilersuits, after which it also spread to other cities and ESN sections in Finland. Each year over 250 international student acquire student boilersuits from ESN or from their own subject associations.\n\nESN Turku-Åbo organizes also twice a year a City Race for the new international students. This race takes the students around Åbo and gets them to know important and touristic places in the city. International tutors and members of ESN Åbo Akademi cooperate in this event.\n\nSince 2010 ESN ÅA organises the weekly sports events, mostly Futsal. ESN Åbo Akademi, since several years ago, also organizes monthly theme movie evenings. Beginning with the Finnish movie evening and later also other themes such as Horror, Swedish movies, Comedy, etc.\n\n\nChairman<br>\nJasmine Malla\n\nVice-Chairman<br>\nGabriela Lönngren\n\nLocal Representative<br>\nJerzy (Jurek) Jasielec\n\nTreasurer <br>\nVeera Juutilainen\n\nSecretary<br>\nSara Karlsson\n\nPublic Relations <br>\nMichaela Lindqvist\n\nOfficial Mascot<br>\nPancho ESN Åbo Akademi (Mexico/China/Finland)\n\n"}
{"id": "15826831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15826831", "title": "Eric Patrick", "text": "Eric Patrick\n\nEric Patrick is an independent filmmaker, freelance animator, Guggenheim fellow, musician, and educator. He is currently a tenured professor in the Radio-TV-Film program at Northwestern University.\n\nOriginally from Port Arthur, Texas, he played in a band throughout the southern United States before he studied art and film at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. He completed his MFA in experimental animation at California Institute of the Arts (1997).\n\nPatrick’s films focus on low-tech, traditional, film-based techniques to explore ideas of consciousness and decay. According to the Southern Arts Federation, his films are \"filled with eerily beautiful visuals that evoke a surreal, otherworldly feel which is complemented by the absence of a traditional narrative.\" He has been awarded grants from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the Texas Filmmakers’ Production Fund, and The Rooftop Film Fund.\n\nHis films have won awards at The Black Maria Film Festival, The Humboldt International Film Festival, Semana de Cine Experimental de Madrid, South by Southwest Film Festival (SXSW), The Ann Arbor Film Festival, U.S.A. Film Festival, Big Muddy Film Festival, and Festival de Cinema Independent de Barcelona.\n\nHis filmwork includes \"Stark Film\" (1997), \"Ablution\" (2001), and \"Startle Pattern\" (2005).\n\nPatrick has also worked as a commercial animator, most prominently for the Nickelodeon program \"Blue's Clues\". He has taught film and animation production at the University of Texas Austin, University of North Carolina Greensboro, and Northwestern University. His writing on animated documentaries and on ritual in animation have appeared in Animac journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "42801895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42801895", "title": "Ghana Planetarium", "text": "Ghana Planetarium\n\nThe Ghana Planetarium is located behind the Ghana Police Headquarters in Cantonments, Accra. It is open throughout the year.\n\nThe Planetarium of Accra was officially opened on Thursday January 22, 2009 by the British High Commissioner, Nicholas Westcott. Also attending were The British Council Director, The French Ambassador and the Chief of Nungua and his entourage.\n"}
{"id": "57931542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57931542", "title": "Harvard Australian Expedition (1931–1932)", "text": "Harvard Australian Expedition (1931–1932)\n\nThe Harvard Australian Expedition of 1931–1932 was a six-man venture sent by then Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology (MCZ) director Thomas Barbour to Australia for the dual purpose of procuring specimens and studying native (living) wildlife in its natural habitat. The Expedition leader was Harvard Professor William Morton Wheeler, with the others being Dr. Philip Jackson Darlington, Jr. (a renowned coleopterist), Dr. Glover Morrill Allen and his student Ralph Nicholson Ellis, medical officer Dr. Ira M. Dixon, and William E. Schevill (a graduate-student in his twenties as well as Associate Curator of Invertebrate Palaeontology at the MCZ).\nThe Expedition was a success, with 341 mammal, 545 amphibian, and thousands of insect specimens returning to the United States., yet its most famous legacy and find was the accidental discovery of the world's most complete skeleton of the short-necked pliosaur \"Kronosaurus queenslandicus\".\n\nThe MCZ being \"weak in Australian animals and...desires[ing] to complete its series\", specimen collection was as important as observation. Operating mostly in eastern and southwestern Australia, at least four of the species they collected \"were new to science\". Spending a total of three months in Western Australia, the team suffered delays in assembling the collections in Sydney, \"obtaining export permits from Customs,\" and transporting their collections back to the States. Then, in the last days of 1931, two expedition members returned as well – those being Professors Wheeler (the leader) and Allen, leaving their four counterparts in Sydney. Following the shrinkage of the team, William Schevill reports that Dr. Darlington began, and spent most of his time, collecting various insect, mammal, and bird specimens in the area around Sydney as well as in the Blue Mountains in New South Wales; indeed, \"he was particularly among the mammals of this region.\" This was the beginning of the team working on a more individual basis rather than as a group, for Schevill set out on his own to collect three times and, in February, Ralph Ellis departed from Australia; swiftly followed by medical officer Dr. Ira Dixon as, per Schevill's report, - \"his continued services...[were] no longer practicable, since Dr. Darlington and I planned to collect in rather widely separated regions. Thus only two of the original six expedition members remained.\n\nFrom this point forward Schevill and Darlington met only when their work required it, the former working more closely with the then Director of the Queensland Museum (Heber A. Longman) and, through him, with Australia's Under Secretary of the Department of Agriculture and Stock (R. Wilson). The two worked together twice more, in the McPherson Range and Cairns where Darlington procured a series of tree kangaroo and Schevill worked along Lake Barrine. Indeed, noting Darlington's activities in greater detail than his own, Mr. Schevill reports that \"Dr. Darlington's resourceful skill and industry had brought together, from New South Wales and Queensland, not only a large collection of insects, but also over three hundred fifty mammals, representing over sixty species, as well about fifty species of birds; in addition, he had about two hundred fifty reptiles and amphibians.\" However, Philip Darlington departed Australia on August 2, 1932 - leaving and making William E. Schevill the last remaining member of the original six-men expedition. And it was Schevill, the team's fossil enthusiast, who was about to make the discovery that made the Harvard Australian Expedition famous.\n\nIn the winter of 1932, Schevill was told by the rancher R.W.H. Thomas of rocks with something \"odd\" poking out of them on his property near Hughenden. The rocks were limestone nodules containing the most complete skeleton of a \"Kronosaurus\" ever discovered. After dynamiting the nodules out of the ground (and into smaller pieces weighing approximately four tons) with the aid of a British migrant trained in the use of explosives, Scheville had the fossils shipped back to Harvard for examination and preparation. The skull—which matched the holotype jaw fragment of \"K. queenslandicus\"—was prepared right away, but time and budget constraints put off restoration of the nearly complete skeleton - most of the bones of which remained unexcavated within the limestone blocks - for 20 years.\n\nThis interim ended when they came to the attention of Godfrey Lowell Cabot - Boston industrialist, philanthropist, and founder of the Cabot Corporation - \"who was then in his nineties had been interested in sea serpents since childhood.\" Having formerly question MCZ director Alfred Romer about the existence and reports of sea serpents and it thus occurred to Dr. Romer to tell Mr. Cabot about the skeleton in the museum closet. Godfrey Cabot thus asked how much a restoration would cost and \"Romer, pulling a figure out of the musty air, replied, 'Oh, about $10,000.'\" Romer may not have been serious but the philanthropist clearly was because the check for said sum came shortly thereafter. Two years - and more than $10,000 - later, following the careful labor of the museum preparators, the restored and mounted skeleton was displayed at Harvard in 1959.\n\nHowever, Dr. Romer and MCZ preparator Arnold Lewis confirmed that same year in the institution's journal \"Breviora\" that \"erosion had destroyed a fair fraction of this once complete and articulated skeleton...so that approximately a third of the specimen as exhibited is plaster restoration.\" Furthermore, the original (real) bones are also layered in plaster; a fact that, while keeping the fossils safe, makes it difficult for paleontologists to study it - an issue which factors into the controversial question of the true size of the \"Kronosaurus queenslandicus\".\n\nBody-length estimates, largely based on the 1959 Harvard reconstruction, had previously put the total length of \"Kronosaurus\" at . However, more recent studies, comparing fossil specimens of \"Kronosaurus\" to other pliosaurs suggests that the Harvard reconstruction may have included too many vertebrae, exaggerating the previous estimate, with the true length probably only .\n\n"}
{"id": "16811887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16811887", "title": "Hellenic Children's Museum", "text": "Hellenic Children's Museum\n\nThe Hellenic Children's Museum in Athens, Greece is located in two houses specifically designed for use by children. The museum also features in the book, \"The Athens Assignment\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32304332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32304332", "title": "History of Humanity", "text": "History of Humanity\n\nThe History of Humanity is part of UNESCO’s General and Regional Histories Collection. The publication seeks to contribute to mutual understanding and dialogue between cultures and civilizations. This series seeks to illustrate the encounters between cultures across history and their respective contributions to the general progress of humankind. This is done through the promotion of a pluralist vision of history.\n\nThe History of Humanity – Scientific and Cultural Development (the complete title of the first edition of the series), provides a universal history of humanity, encompassing a multiplicity of points of view, memories, and opinions from all over the world and from varying points in history. This major task was undertaken by UNESCO with the collaboration of over 450 distinguished scholars and researchers. This account of history explores the vastness of human cultural progress around the world, seeking to promote mutual respect and solidarity through the disarming of history. \n\nThe volumes begin with the prehistoric period and the beginnings of civilization, and go through to the twentieth century. Traditional methods of historical research based on written sources are used along with more contemporary critical methods, oral sources, and contributions from archaeology. The History of Humanity was published in six volumes and in several languages, including English, French, Italian, Russian, Spanish and Portuguese.\n\nThe initial ideas for UNESCO to work on a project illustrating the collective memory of humanity were raised in 1946. Following the establishment of the International Scientific Committee and the formation of international teams to undertake the research, the first edition of this series, The History of Humanity - Scientific and Cultural Development, was completed in 1966. Over the following decades, with unprecedented developments in social and physical sciences and technological advances, the project was adapted and again readapted to properly reflect these changes. The second edition was therefore prepared beginning in 1980 and completed in 2009.\n\n\n[1] Koichiro Matsuura, Director-General of UNESCO, 2009\n\n"}
{"id": "4376191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4376191", "title": "John R. Taylor", "text": "John R. Taylor\n\nJohn Robert Taylor is an emeritus professor of physics at the University of Colorado, Boulder. He received his B.A. in mathematics at Cambridge University, and his Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley in 1963 with thesis advisor Geoffrey Chew. Taylor has written several college-level physics textbooks. His bestselling book is \"An Introduction to Error Analysis\", which has been translated into six languages. Taylor was designated a Presidential Teaching Scholar in 1991. He has also received an Emmy Award for his television series \"Physics 4 Fun\" (1988–1990).\n"}
{"id": "7085439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7085439", "title": "Justina Vail Evans", "text": "Justina Vail Evans\n\nJustina Vail Evans (née Vail, previously credited as Justina Vail) (born 20 August 1963) is a British actress, life coach, author and hypnotherapist.\n\nVail was born in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in 1963 to British parents. She acquired her first acting role in Hong Kong where a British television show was filming.\n\nProfessionally, Vail's most notable role was as a Russian scientist Dr. Olga Vukavitch in the late 1990s and early 2000s UPN science fiction television series \"Seven Days\". Vail received positive reviews for her performance on the show. In 2000, she won a Saturn Award for best supporting actress, winning out over \"Stargate SG-1\"s Amanda Tapping. In 2001, however, there were reports of dissatisfaction on set. Co-star Don Franklin expressed his dissatisfaction with the show, and Vail was reported to have left the show entirely (according to some show sources over a dispute with \"Seven Days\" co-star Jonathan LaPaglia), only to later return and finish the third season.\n\nVail also guest-starred in an episode of \"\". The episode (along with several others like it) were attempts to pilot female immortal leads for the short-lived \"\". Reviews of the episode were mixed, offering criticism of Vail's character, but not her performance. Ultimately, Vail's character was not the one chosen for the new show.\n\nVail is married to Jeff Evans, a doctor, leadership development consultant and best-selling author based in Los Angeles, California. Vail is also an author. She is a recurring columnist for \"Backstage\" magazine, and she has published the book \"How to be a Happy Actor in a Challenging Business: A Guide to Thriving Through it All\". It was awarded the top prize of the \"How To\" category for the 2012 Hollywood Book Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "2806289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2806289", "title": "Lev Ivanov", "text": "Lev Ivanov\n\nLev Ivanovich Ivanov (; 2 March 1834, Moscow – 24 December 1901, Saint Petersburg) was a Russian ballet dancer and choreographer and later, Second Balletmaster of the Imperial Ballet. As a performer with the Imperial Ballet, he achieved prominence after performing as an understudy in a benefit performance of \"La Fille Mal Gardée\". He is most famous as the choreographer of \"Dance of the Little Swans\" from \"Swan Lake\", Act II of \"Cinderella\", and \"The Nutcracker\", which he choreographed alongside Marius Petipa.\n\nIvanov entered the Moscow School of Dance, but in 1844 moved to Saint Petersburg where he studied at the Imperial Ballet, becoming an official member of the Corps de ballet in 1852. Among his teachers during this time were Jean-Antoine Petipa, Alexandr Pimenov, Pierre Frédéric Malavergne and Emile Gredlu ().\n\nHistorically, Ivanov is credited with choreographing the entirety of premiere of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's ballet \"The Nutcracker\" in 1892 due to the ill health of the ballet master, Marius Petipa. While some contemporary and modern accounts dispute this, Ivanov is still mentioned in \"The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, Second Edition\" with choreographing at least the majority of the ballet as Petipa had reportedly not progressed very far in his work. Regardless of the amount of work he actually did, Petipa's was the only name listed for choreography on posters for the first production in St. Petersburg.\n\nIvanov worked with Petipa on a new restaging of Tchaikovsky's \"Swan Lake\" ballet in 1895. Ivanov choreographed the entirety of the lakeside acts, Act II and Act IV. This includes the \"Dance of the Little Swans\", an iconic \"pas de quatre\" where the four cygnets huddle together and dance in unison, before breaking the chain and falling to the floor whilst attempting to fly. Ivanov also choreographed the \"Danse Vénitienne\" (Neapolitan/Venetian Dance) and the \"Pas Hongrois\" (Hungarian Dance) of the third bier scene.\n\nIn his last years Ivanov was in financial straits. On the strength of his 50 years' service he petitioned the Imperial Theatres for financial assistance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2077765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2077765", "title": "Makerere University", "text": "Makerere University\n\nMakerere University, Kampala ( ; MUK) is Uganda's largest and third-oldest institution of higher learning, first established as a technical school in 1922. In 1963, it became the University of East Africa, offering courses leading to general degrees from the University of London. It became an independent national university in 1970 when the University of East Africa was split into three independent universities: University of Nairobi (Kenya), University of Dar es Salaam (Tanzania), and Makerere University. Today, Makerere University is composed of nine colleges and one school offering programmes for about 36,000 undergraduates and 4,000 postgraduates.\n\n\"U.S. News & World Report\" has ranked Makerere University as the eighth best university in Africa and the 569th best university worldwide. The \"Times Higher Education World University Rankings\" for 2016 ranked it as the fourth best university in Africa.\n\nMakerere University was alma mater to many post-independence African leaders, including Ugandan president Milton Obote and Tanzanian presidents Julius Nyerere and Benjamin Mkapa. The president of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Joseph Kabila, and Kenyan president Mwai Kibaki are also Makerere alumni.\n\nIn the years immediately after Uganda's independence, Makerere University was a focal point for the literary activity that was central to African nationalist culture. Many prominent writers, including Nuruddin Farah, Ali Mazrui, David Rubadiri, Okello Oculi, Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o, John Ruganda, Paul Theroux, V. S. Naipaul and Peter Nazareth, were at Makerere University at one point in their writing and academic careers.\n\nBecause of student unrest and faculty disenchantment, the university was closed three times between 2006 and 2016. The final time was on 1 November 2016 when President Yoweri Museveni declared it closed indefinitely. The university was reopened in January 2017.\n\nThe trade school that became Makerere University began operating in 1921 with the first classes in carpentry, building construction and mechanics. In 1922 it was founded as the \"Uganda Technical College\" with additional courses in the arts, education, agriculture and medicine. That same year it was again renamed as Makerere College. In 1928, the vocational classes were separated from the college and renamed Kampala Technical School. In 1937 the college began offering post-secondary education certificate courses.\n\nIn 1943, the British Protectorate government proposed the university, which led to a controversial struggle. It was described as \"a plot to steal African soil for European settlement,\" by the Bataka Party. In response to this campaign, there was rioting in the capital of Kampala.\n\nIn 1949 Makerere College was granted university status and its name became Makerere College, University of East Africa. In the same year, the Bataka Party had been banned by the British Protectorate government, because of acts of riot and arson committed after a Bataka protest gathering.\n\nThe university was closed three times between 2006 and 2016.\n\nBeginning on 1 August 2016, the non-teaching staff went on strike demanding their back pay. The strike lasted three weeks and the government agreed to pay them by the end of October; however, the government failed to do so. This was but one more broken promise in the cycle of failed promises, strikes and more promises. That strike was followed by a strike of the lecturers over unpaid incentive pay, and that strike was joined by students in solidarity. This led to President Yoweri Museveni closing the university \"indefinitely\". Additional protests, including from parents whose children were left hanging in mid-semester, led to Museveni appointing a special commission to try to rectify the situation but with no promises of reopening. The commission's report is due in late February 2017.\n\n\n\n\nDirectorate of Research and Graduate Training.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of September 2015, the halls of residence at Makerere University included the following:\n\n\n\n\nIn January 2010, the university announced the opening of two new campuses, one in the city of Fort Portal, approximately , by road, west of Kampala, and another one in the city of Jinja, approximately , by road, east of Kampala. The following courses will be offered at the upcountry campuses:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38647427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38647427", "title": "Marie Joys", "text": "Marie Joys\n\nMarie Elisabeth Joys (2 June 1872 – 21 November 1944) was a Norwegian nurse and nursing teacher.\n\nShe was born in Bergen as a daughter of teacher and military officer Wessel Joachim Reehorst Joys (1841–1922) and Lina Storjohann (1841–1925). On the maternal side she was a niece of Nanna and Johan C. H. Storjohann, and a first cousin of Marie Michelet.\n\nAfter primary school, Joys travelled to Berlin in 1892 to undergo nursing education at the institution Victoriahaus. While studying she was a subordinate nurse at Friedrichshain Hospital, and after graduating in 1895 she was hired as a chief nurse there, only 23 years of age. In 1897 she was persuaded to return to Bergen, where she was offered the job as chief nurse at the Bergen Municipal Hospital surgical department. She stayed here until her retirement in 1933.\n\nShe was credited (together with Camilla Struve and Betty Bull) with planning and establishing the first three-year nursing education in Norway. This started at Bergen Municipal Hospital in 1908. At this course they also pioneered the pre-training school, a theoretical course that aspiring nurses had to attend before entering the practical training. This idea was soon adapted by other nursing educators as well as the Norwegian Nurses' Union. Joys was a co-founder of the Norwegian Nurses' Union in 1912.\n\nDuring the First Balkan War, during the winter of 1912–1913, Joys volunteered at an Ottoman military hospital in Constantinople. She thus became known as one of the first nurses to volunteer in a catastrophic setting abroad—already from her study days she had been an admirer of Florence Nightingale. In 1948 she issued her memoirs, \"Erindringer\", where she described the war among other things.\n\nArntzen was awarded the King's Medal of Merit in gold in 1923 and the international Florence Nightingale Medal from the Red Cross in 1937. She did not marry. She died in November 1944 in Bergen.\n"}
{"id": "8767649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8767649", "title": "Maynard Morrison", "text": "Maynard Morrison\n\nMaynard Morrison, a Canadian comedian, actor, director, and teacher from Sydney, Nova Scotia, has performed on TV, radio and in live venues across Canada. He was also a teacher of performing arts at Sydney Academy in Sydney, Nova Scotia, retiring in 2015. His teaching career spans over 30 years of developmental drama / performing arts instruction at various schools.\n\nMorrison is married to actress and comedian Bette MacDonald.\n\nMorrison was a founding member of the long running Cape Breton Summertime Revue stage show where he created and portrayed many popular characters who exhibited a distinct Cape Breton flair. \nHe has collaborated with his wife Bette on many productions including New Waterford Girl, \"IT\" Came From Away, and the TV show Liocracy.\n\nMaynard has also been director and a key contributor to the movies released every year by the Sydney Academy Drama Group, the group in which he oversees at the high school where he teaches drama. Just recently he had a cameo role as a judge at \"Kangaroo Court\" during the courtroom scene of \"Its About Vincent\".\n"}
{"id": "4094374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4094374", "title": "Michael L. Chyet", "text": "Michael L. Chyet\n\nMichael L. Chyet (1957- ) is an American linguist.\n\nHe is a cataloguer of Middle Eastern languages at the Library of Congress. Formerly he was senior editor of the Kurdish Service of the Voice of America and professor of Kurdish at the University of Paris and at the Washington Kurdish Institute. \n\nHe has written a Kurdish-English dictionary. He is a skillful linguist who is fluent in several Middle Eastern languages, including Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, Turkish and at least two dialects of Kurdish, both Sorani and Kurmanji, in addition to several other European languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "17291739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17291739", "title": "National Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee", "text": "National Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee\n\nThe National Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee (NJATC) is the former name for the Electrical Training Alliance, a nonprofit organization created in 1941 by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) and the National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA).\n\nThe organization works with subject matter experts (SMEs), industry leaders, and various manufacturers to ensure that electrical apprentices in the organized labor movement have access to the most-up-to date training initiatives in the electrical construction industry. The NJATC is committed to developing and standardizing education in the electrical industry to properly and effectively train members of NECA and the IBEW, providing the electrical construction industry with the most highly trained and highly skilled workforce possible.\n\nAcross the United States and Canada more than 200 local Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committees (JATCs) use the NJATC’s curricula to help train electrical apprentices. The NJATC develops electrical training curricula for Inside Wireman, Outside Lineman, Voice-Data-Video (VDV), and Residential Wireman programs. Emerging technologies such as photovoltaics (solar), wind power generation and programmable logic controllers (PLCs) are also encompassed in the NJATC curricula, along with codes and safety and instrumentation training. The organization is also responsible for spearheading a variety of electrical industry certifications such as cable splicing and conduit bending.\n\nThe NJATC is well known for its “Earn While You Learn” initiative that allows electrical apprentices to work and earn respectable living wages while receiving related instructional training. This program also allows JATC electrical apprenticeship programs to operate without the financial support of taxpayers. With the help of the American Council on Education, the NJATC has also developed a program that allows electrical apprentices to translate their instructional training into college credit. Depending on the area of study pursued, electrical apprentices can now transfer up to 60 college credit hours from their electrical apprenticeship to colleges, universities, or community colleges.\n\nThe organization is also known for hosting the National Training Institute (NTI), the largest electrical training seminar in North America. Nearly 2,000 electrical workers attend this event to learn about new industry trends, to see new products, and to attend in-depth training seminars. NTI is also home to one of the largest electrical trade shows in the construction industry.\n\nAs of 2007, there are more than 40,000 electrical apprentices enrolled in JATC programs throughout the United States and Canada. Since its inception, more than 325,000 electrical apprentices have completed NJATC training programs and become competent journeymen, making the organization one of the largest electrical training and apprenticeship programs of its kind.\n\n"}
{"id": "275673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275673", "title": "Non-commercial educational", "text": "Non-commercial educational\n\nThe term non-commercial educational (NCE) applies to a radio station or TV station that does not accept on-air advertisements (TV ads or radio ads), as defined in the United States by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). NCE stations do not pay broadcast license fees for their non-profit uses of the radio spectrum. Stations which are almost always operated as NCE include public broadcasting, community radio, and college radio, as well as many religious broadcasting stations.\n\nOn the FM broadcast band, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has reserved the lowest 20 channels, 201~220 (88.1~91.9 MHz) for NCE stations only. This is known as the reserved band. It also includes channel 200 (87.9 MHz), but only for class D NCE stations. This is only for \"full-service\" stations forced to move by a full-power station (KSFH being the only one ), however one broadcast translator (K200AA, a CSN International translator parented to KAWZ) has been allowed to use this channel anyway.\n\nOn the TV band, individual channels are reserved, such that there is at least one in every area, and almost always two or three in each metropolitan area. This is also the case for FM along international boundary zones, within 320 kilometers (just under 200 miles) of the Mexico–United States border and the Canada–United States border. This is because many of the reserved-band channels are used by stations in the other country, such as with broadcasting in the San Diego/Tijuana metropolitan area. Additionally, neither the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission nor the Federal Telecommunications Institute have such a reserved band in Canada or Mexico, respectively. (In Mexico, individual stations belonging to state and federal governments, educational institutions, and non-profit groups are licensed under permits or \"permisos\", which are non-commercial, non-profit licenses that do not permit advertising.)\n\nNCE stations may also operate on a non-reserved channel. However this was rare in the United States due to the high cost of buying a commercial broadcasting station, and because for years the FCC failed to maintain a process that would ensure that non-commercial applicants would have a chance against those who could afford to bid at spectrum auctions. Two such stations are WGPB FM in Rome, Georgia and WNGH-FM in Chatsworth, Georgia, former commercial stations purchased in 2007 and 2008 and operated by Georgia Public Broadcasting (GPB), serving the mountains northwest of Atlanta which previously had no GPB radio service. This is also rare in Mexico, though XEIMT-TV, a cultural channel in Mexico City, and XEWH-TV, the main station of the state network of Sonora, operate under commercial concessions and not permits. A number of new low power FM (LPFM) NCE stations operating in the non-reserved part of the spectrum have been licensed by the FCC since the Local Community Radio Act was enacted in 2010. \n\nThe FCC defines several different activities as being commercial in nature. Sponsorship of NCE stations is called underwriting, and stations may make announcements of these grants on-air. However, they may not accept money for such mentions, only goods and services, unless the sponsor itself is a non-profit, such as a charitable organization or public college. Money can be accepted if there is no on-air mention of the sponsor. NCE stations may also not mention prices or qualities of commercial products or services in any situation which would be construed as promoting or endorsing any company, regardless of whether it sponsors the station.\n\nUnderwriting spots are brief and to-the-point, as they must not be disruptive to programming. Additionally, underwriting spots on public TV are at the beginning or end of the TV show rather than in the middle, as they have increasingly become on commercial stations.\n\nRetransmission consent has often been chosen over must-carry by the major commercial television networks. Under the present rules, a new agreement is negotiated every three years, and stations must choose must-carry or retransmission consent for each cable system they wish their signal to be carried on. Non-commercial stations (such as local PBS stations) may not seek retransmission consent and may only invoke must-carry status.\n\nLike commercial stations, NCE stations are allowed to lease subcarriers in exchange for money, essentially making the station a common carrier. This may be for a commercial audio, video, or data service, or a non-commercial one like a radio reading service for the blind.\n\nNCE stations broadcasting in digital TV or HD Radio may lease part of their bandwidth (actually bitrate) in a similar manner, however, the commercial use is limited. The main program must always be non-commercial, and must not have its quality diminished excessively by increased lossy compression done in order to fit the auxiliary service within the allowable bit rate. NCE digital television (DTV) stations do not pay the FCC a percentage of their revenue from these leases as commercial DTV stations do. No such datacasting fee is levied on any analog or FM/AM station, whether commercial or NCE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5815524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5815524", "title": "Norwegian Writers for Children", "text": "Norwegian Writers for Children\n\nThe Norwegian Writers for Children (, NBU) was founded in 1947. The association, composed of authors who write fiction for children and young people, promotes the interests of writers of books for children and young people and encourages literature for children and young people. NBU has almost 300 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "44551561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44551561", "title": "Official Museums of Amsterdam", "text": "Official Museums of Amsterdam\n\nOfficial Museums of Amsterdam (OAM) is a consulting association of museums in Amsterdam. The organisation has existed since the eighties but it was formally founded in 1994. The organization contains both private and public museums, all of which are registered as members of De Museumvereniging, the Dutch Museum Association.\n\nThe OAM association has a limited jurisdiction and an elected chair and vice-chair.\n\nThe 'official' museums of Amsterdam actually do not exist. The name is a misleading translation of the unofficial name of an unincorporated meeting club of mostly government subsidized museums who co-ordinate their marketing to monopolize further government subsidies for city marketing and government assistance. The website of the Jewish Historical Museum slightly more correctly calls them: 'organization' of Amsterdam Museums with an office in the Amsterdam Uitburo or the city's entertainment desk. But the real Dutch name, as in the logo, is 'overleg' or 'meeting.'\n\nThe foundation Samenwerkende Amsterdamse Musea (SAM) represents the collective business interests of the OAM. Bjorn Stenvers was founding director of SAM from 2012 to 2017. In 2015 he founded the Amsterdam Museum Academy for museum staff trainings.\nThe Marketing Overleg der Amsterdamse Musea (MOAM) represents the collective marketing interests of the OAM. All of the heads of marketing and communication of the forty-four partner museums are involved in MOAM. They each act as consultants, contractors, and advisers for the partner museums. The Museum Night (Dutch: Museumnacht, N8) was initiated by the MOAM, but has now become an independent organisation.\n\nThe current list of the 44 members:\n\n"}
{"id": "6895164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6895164", "title": "Oscmar International", "text": "Oscmar International\n\nCubic Defence NZ Ltd (previously, OSCMAR International Limited) is a manufacturer of training and simulations systems for military forces around the world. It is based in Auckland, New Zealand and owned by an American company Cubic Corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "40464565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40464565", "title": "Pay as You Earn (PAYE) - Federal Student Loan Relief Program", "text": "Pay as You Earn (PAYE) - Federal Student Loan Relief Program\n\nThe Pay As You Earn program is a United States federal program that was passed into law on December 21, 2012. It was the first student debt relief law signed by President Barack Obama.\n\nOnly new borrowers may qualify if they receive a disbursement on a loan on or after October 1, 2011. You are a new borrower if you had no outstanding balance on a Direct Loan or FFEL Program loan when you received a Direct Loan or FFEL Program loan on or after Oct. 1, 2007. As with Income-Based Repayment (IBR), the borrower must prove Partial Financial Hardship.\n\nPresident Obama's 2015 budget proposes substantial changes to the Pay As You Earn program. In addition to extending the program to all borrowers, regardless of when their first loans were disbursed, it proposes certain limits to PAYE that are designed to \"protect against institutional practices that may further increase student indebtedness, while ensuring the program provides sufficient relief for students committed to public service.\" These proposed changes include:\n\n• Eliminating the standard payment cap under PAYE so that high-income, high-balance borrowers pay an equitable share of their earnings as their income rises;\n\n• Calculating payments for married borrowers filing separately on the combined household Adjusted Gross Income;\n\n• Capping Public Sector Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) at the aggregate loan limit for independent undergraduate students to protect against institutional practices that may further increase student indebtedness, while ensuring the program provides sufficient relief for students committed to public service;\n\n• Establishing a 25-year forgiveness period for borrowers with balances above the aggregate loan limit for independent undergraduate students;\n\n• Preventing payments made under non-income driven repayment plans from being applied toward PSLF to ensure that loan forgiveness is targeted to students with the greatest need; and\n\n• Capping the amount of interest that can accrue when a borrower’s monthly payment is insufficient to cover the interest to avoid ballooning loan balances.\n\nIn sum, although the budget proposes to expand PAYE to all borrowers, it severely restricts its benefits for those with high income/high student loan balances and for those pursuing careers in public interest. If passed, it is unclear whether those who borrowed prior to the implemented changes will be grandfathered in to existing PAYE, IBR, and PSLF plans.\n\nA petition has been started asking the White House to reconsider its limitations on the PSLF program.\n\nOn June 9, 2014, President Barack Obama announced an executive order to extend the Pay as You Earn (PAYE) repayment to student loans acquired before October 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294993", "title": "Petr Beckmann", "text": "Petr Beckmann\n\nPetr Beckmann (November 13, 1924 – August 3, 1993) was a professor of electrical engineering who became a well-known advocate of libertarianism and nuclear power. Later in his life he challenged Albert Einstein's theory of relativity and other accepted theories in modern physics.\n\nIn 1939, when Beckmann was 14, his family fled their home in Prague, Czechoslovakia to escape the Nazis. From 1942 to 1945, he served in a Czech squadron of the RAF. He received a B.Sc. in 1949, a Ph.D. in 1955, and a D.Sc. in 1962, all from Prague's Czech Academy of Sciences in electrical engineering. He defected to the United States in 1963 and became a Professor (later, Emeritus) of electrical engineering at the University of Colorado. In the United States, he became acquainted with novelist Ayn Rand, a contributing editor to a publication devoted to her ideas, \"The Intellectual Activist\", and a speaker at The Thomas Jefferson School, an intellectual conference of similar purpose.\n\nBeckmann was a prolific author; he wrote several electrical engineering textbooks and non-technical works. By 1968 he had founded Golem Press, which published most of his books, including \"The Health Hazards of Not Going Nuclear\" (1976), which argued in favor of nuclear power during the height of the anti-nuclear movement by contrasting the cost, in human terms, with the equivalent costs of the alternatives available. Beckmann also wrote \"A History of\", documenting the history of the calculation of . He published his own monthly newsletter, \"Access to Energy\", which since September 1993 has been written by Arthur B. Robinson.\n\nIn 1981, he took early retirement with Emeritus status, in order to devote himself fully to what he saw as the defense of science, technology and free enterprise, through his newsletter, \"Access to Energy\". He founded the Golem Press in 1967, publishing more than nine books. These included \"The History of \", \"Einstein Plus Two\", and \"The Health Hazards of Not Going Nuclear\" (with an Introduction by Edward Teller). He wrote more than 60 scientific papers and eight technical books. Dr. Beckmann spoke at International Society for Individual Liberty(ISIL)'s San Francisco Conference in 1990 where he received a standing ovation for his speech in which he attacked \"sham environmentalists\".\n\nBeckmann was also a frequent and colorful participant in Usenet debates. In them, he claimed to have debunked Albert Einstein's theory of special relativity in his book \"Einstein Plus Two\" as well as in a disputatious journal, \"Galilean Electrodynamics\", which he also founded. The \"History of π\" also expresses his intense and colorful opposition to Catholicism (and other religions), Nazism, and Communism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6140509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6140509", "title": "Policy of standardisation", "text": "Policy of standardisation\n\nThe policy of standardization was a policy implemented by the Sri Lankan government in 1971 to rectify disparities created in university enrollment in Sri Lanka under Colonial rule. In 1972, the government added a district quota as a parameter within each language.\n\nIn 1946 minister C. W. W. Kannangara introduced free education in all the government institutions (Schools, government universities) in Sri Lanka. Government funded all the money by bearing the expenses.\n\nUnder the British, English was the state language and consequently greatly benefited English speakers. However the majority of Sri Lankan populace lived outside urban areas and did not belong to the social elite, and therefore did not enjoy the benefits of English-medium education. The issue was compounded further by the fact that in Northern and Eastern regions of the island, where a largely Tamil populace resided, students had access to English-medium education through missionary schools regardless of their socio-economy strata. This created a situation where a large proportion of students enrolled in universities throughout the country were English speaking Tamils and Sinhalese from urban centers like Colombo, particularly in professional courses such as medicine and engineering.\n\nThe government policy of standardization in essence was an affirmative action scheme to assist geographically disadvantaged students to gain tertiary education. The benefits enjoyed by Sinhalese students also meant a significant fall in the number of Tamil students within the Sri Lankan university student populace.\n\nUniversity selection of 1971 was calculated based on language they sit. Numbers of allocations were proportional to the number of participants who sat to the examination in that language. As guaranteed before the exam, Tamil share was dropped to the proportion of the Tamils medium students(According to 1971 consensus 27% of the total population used Tamil as first medium).\n\nAccording to 1971 exam results, a large proportion of the Tamil allocation was enjoyed by Tamils in Jaffna and a large proportion of the Sinhalese share was enjoyed by the Sinhalese in Colombo.\n\nIn 1972 government added district quota as a parameter within each languages. 30% of university places were allocated on the basis of island-wide merit; half the places were allocated on the basis of comparative scores within districts and an additional 15% reserved for students from under privileged districts.\n\n30% of university places were allocated on the basis of island-wide merit; half the places were allocated on the basis of comparative scores within districts and an additional 15% reserved for students from under privileged districts.\n\nIn 1969, the Northern Province, which was largely populated by Tamils and comprised 7% of the population of the country, provided 27.5 percent of the entrants to science-based courses in Sri Lankan universities. By 1974, this was reduced to 7%. However, the hardest hit population group were the urban Tamils and Sinhalese in the Western Province, which contained 26% of the islands population. In 1969, the Western Province provided 67.5 percent of admissions to science-based courses. This reduced to 27% in 1974, after the law came into effect. The majority of the share enjoyed by Jaffna Tamils were distributed among Tamils in other areas ( Eastern province, Hill country and Muslims) . Majority of the share enjoyed by Colombo was distributed among rest of the Sinhalese.\n\n\"In 1971, a system of standardisation of marks was introduced for admissions to the universities, obviously directed against Tamil-medium students (referred to earlier). K.M. de Silva describes it as follows:\n\n'The qualifying mark for admission to the medical faculties was 250 (out of 400) for Tamil students, whereas it was only 229 for the Sinhalese. Worse still, this same pattern of a lower qualifying mark applied even when Sinhalese and Tamil students sat for the examination in English. In short, students sitting for examinations in the same language, but belonging to two ethnic groups, had different qualifying marks.'\n\nHe observes that by doing this in such an obviously discriminatory way, 'the United Front Government of the 1970s caused enormous harm to ethnic relations.'\n\nThis was not the end; in 1972 the 'district quota system' was introduced, again to the detriment of the Sri Lankan Tamil people. The (Sinhalese) historian C.R. de Silva wrote:\n\n'By 1977 the issue of university admissions had become a focal point of the conflict between the government and Tamil leaders. Tamil youth, embittered by what they considered discrimination against them, formed the radical wing of the Tamil United Liberation Front. Many advocated the use of violence to establish a separate Tamil state of Eelam. It was an object lesson of how inept policy measures and insensitivity to minority interests can exacerbate ethnic tensions .'\n\nWhen the policy was implemented, the urban Sinhalese population had reconciled themselves to the fact that the position of privilege they had enjoyed under the British would not last forever, and the situation had to stabilize at the population level. However Tamils saw the policy along communal terms, and strongly opposed the move.\n\nThe language based standardization of university entrance was abandoned in 1977, and introduced different standardization based on merits, district quotas. 80% of the university places were filled in accordance with raw marks scored by students. The remaining 20% of places was allocated to students in districts with inadequate educational facilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5083518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5083518", "title": "Public and private education in Australia", "text": "Public and private education in Australia\n\nEducation in Australia can be classified according to sources of funding and administrative structures. There are two broad categories of school in Australia: public schools (also known as government or state schools) and private schools, which can be further subdivided into Catholic schools and independent schools.\n\nAt primary and secondary levels, government schools educate about half of students. The major part of their costs is met by the relevant state or territory government. Private schools, both religious or secular (the latter often with specialisations), may charge higher fees. Regardless of whether a school is government or private, it is regulated by the same curriculum standards framework. Most schools, government and private, enforce a uniform or dress code, although there are varying expectations.\n\nGovernment (or state) schools are run by the respective state government. They offer free education; however, many schools ask parents to pay a contribution fee and a materials and services charge. They can be divided into two categories: open and selective school. Open schools accept all students from their government-defined catchment areas, and teach using the curriculum. Many open government schools have selective classes in which better-performing students are offered extended and accelerated work. Selective government schools are considered more prestigious than open government schools. They have high entrance requirements and cater to a much larger area. Entrance to selective schools is often highly competitive.\n\nAccess to Selective schools, grammar schools and upper stream of public schools is not available for people on temporary resident visa.\n\nPrivate schools can be divided into two groups. Religion-based systems of education are operated by the , , and denominations as well as a number of other church or parachurch-based low-fee schools. By far the most numerous are Catholic schools, which are run by diocese-based educational institutions within the Catholic Church called the Catholic Education/Schools Offices, although some more prestigious Catholic schools are independent. The rest are known as independent schools, which are largely Protestant grammar schools. There are also a few Jewish and Islamic schools, and a growing number of independent Montessori and Waldorf schools.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate programmes are taught at over 150 schools, both private and state.\n\nThe major independent schools in each city (such as the APS Schools and the AGSV Schools in Melbourne) charge high fees (up to $30,000 per year) and are therefore able to afford facilities that government schools and church-run Catholic schools cannot. Funding for independent schools often comes under criticism from the Australian Education Union and the Australian Labor Party because, in addition to their fees, these schools also receive funding from both state and federal governments.\n\nIt is sometimes assumed, by parents or other observers, that attending a private school will guarantee achievement in later life, because of a perceived superiority, real or imagined.\n\nPrivate school fees can vary from under $100 per month to $2000 and upwards, depending on the student's year level and the school's size. Private school uniforms tend to be more expensive than those for public schools, and more strictly enforced.\n\nBoth private and public universities can be found in Australia. As of 2006, there are 36 public, two Catholic and one non-profit private universities in Australia. Admissions by Australian citizens to public and Catholic universities in Australia are based on the prospective student's academic achievement. Admission to the private university, Bond University, is dependent on a student's ability to pay tuition fees as well as academic achievement and \"one on one\" interviews with admission officers (the only university in Australasia to do this for all students). Melbourne University Private was a whole university developed and owned by a public university to operate under this model.\n\nDomestic students are not usually subject to upfront fees at a public university if enrolled in a Commonwealth Supported Place. As well as receiving substantial government subsidies to the cost of tertiary education, students in CSPs have the option of deferring their financial contributions to their education completely via the Commonwealth Supported Students scheme. Students may also enrol in a non-Commonwealth Supported Place, known as a FULL-FEE place, and must pay all upfront fees, which are typically greater than a standard Commonwealth Supported Students debt, usually undertaken to reduce academic entrance requirements. The national government provides funding for all universities in Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "33669425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33669425", "title": "Recy Taylor", "text": "Recy Taylor\n\nRecy Taylor (\"née\" Corbitt; December 31, 1919 – December 28, 2017) was an African-American woman from Abbeville in Henry County, Alabama, U.S. She was born and raised in a sharecropping family in the Jim Crow era Southern United States. Taylor's refusal to remain silent about a brutal rape she suffered, perpetrated by white men, led to organizing in the African-American community on behalf of justice and civil rights.\n\nOn September 3, 1944, Taylor was kidnapped while leaving church and gang-raped by six white men. Despite the men's confessions to authorities, two grand juries subsequently declined to indict the men; no charges were ever brought against her assailants.\n\nIn 2011, the Alabama Legislature officially apologized on behalf of the state \"for its failure to prosecute her attackers.\" Taylor's rape, refusal to remain silent, and the subsequent court cases were among the early instances of nationwide protest and activism among the African-American community, and ended up providing an organizational spark in the civil rights movement.\n\nAt the 2018 Golden Globe Awards, while accepting the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award, Oprah Winfrey discussed and brought awareness to Taylor's story. The Congressional Black Caucus led Democratic Caucus members in wearing red \"Recy\" pins while attending the 2018 State of the Union, where Taylor's granddaughter, Mary Joyce Owens, was a guest.\n\nRecy Corbitt was born on December 31, 1919 in rural Alabama, where her family were farmworkers doing sharecropping. At 17, her mother died and she cared for her six siblings. She continued to work in sharecropping and by the time she was 24 in 1944, she had married Willie Guy Taylor and they had a young daughter, Joyce Lee.\n\nRecy Taylor was walking home from church on September 3, 1944, with her friend Fannie Daniel and Daniel's teenage son West, when a car pulled up on the side of the road. In the car were US Army Private Herbert Lovett and six other men, all armed. Herbert Lovett accused Taylor of cutting Tommy Clarson \"that white boy in Clopton this evening.\" This accusation was false, as Taylor had been with Daniel all day. The seven men forced Taylor into the car at gunpoint and proceeded to drive her to a patch of trees on the side of the road. They forced her to remove her clothes saying \"Get them rags off, or I'll kill you and leave you down here in the woods.\" After she was forcibly undressed, Taylor begged to return home to her family, including her husband and an infant child. The assailants ignored her requests, all removed their clothes, and watched as Lovett ordered Taylor to lie down and for her to \"act just like you do with your husband or I'll cut your damn throat.\" She was raped by six of the men, including Lovett.\n\nTaylor's kidnapping was reported immediately to the police by Daniel. Daniel identified the car as belonging to Hugo Wilson, who admitted to picking up Taylor and, as he put it, \"carrying her to the spot\" and pinned the rape on six men, Dillard York, Billy Howerton, Herbert Lovett, Luther Lee, Joe Culpepper and Robert Gamble. Even though three eyewitnesses identified Wilson as the driver of the car, the police did not call in any of the men Wilson named as assailants, and Wilson was fined $250 (). The black community of Abbeville was outraged at the actions taken by the police, and the event was reported to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in Montgomery, Alabama. The NAACP sent down their best investigator and activist against sexual assaults on black women, Rosa Parks. In early October, the \"Chicago Defender\", which had a national African-American audience, ran a front-page article entitled \"Victim of White Alabama Rapists\", which profiled Taylor and the case.\n\nParks took the case back to Montgomery where she started to form support for Taylor with the assistance of E.D. Nixon, Rufas A. Lewis, and E.G. Jackson, all influential men in the Montgomery community. Parks and her allies formed the Alabama Committee for Equal Justice for Taylor, \"with support from national labor unions, African-American organizations, and women's groups.\" The group recruited supporters across the entire country and by the spring of 1945 they had organized what the \"Chicago Defender\" called the \"strongest campaign for equal justice to be seen in a decade.\"\n\nThe trial took place on October 3–4, 1944, with an all-white, all-male jury. However, none of the assailants had been arrested, which meant that the only witnesses were Taylor's black friends and family. Taylor's family could not identify the names of the assailants, and since Sheriff Gamble \"never arranged a police line-up, Taylor could not identify her attackers in court\". Also, the $250 bond Gamble placed Wilson and his accomplices under \"were issued late in the afternoon, the day \"after\" Taylor's hearing\". After five minutes of deliberation, the jury dismissed the case. The only way it could be re-opened would be through an indictment from the grand jury.\n\nIn the months following the trial, Taylor received multiple death threats, and her home was firebombed by white supremacists. Taylor, along with her husband and child, moved into the family home, where her father and siblings would help protect Taylor from other death threats. Her entire family was afraid to go out after dark, and Taylor would not leave even during the day. She not only feared the threats from the angry vigilantes of the town, but also the threats from her attackers the night of the assault. Benny Corbitt took guard in a tree every night with a gun guarding Taylor and her family until daybreak. Taylor and her family assumed they would live the rest of their lives in fear. However, talk of \"the brutal rape and phony hearing\" resonated through NAACP chapters throughout the south and within black communities. These organizations and others came together to defend Taylor and demand punishment for her attackers as well as Taylor's safety.\n\nThe activists convened at the Negro Masonic Temple in Birmingham, Alabama, where members of the Montgomery and Birmingham NAACP, editors and reporters from the \"Alabama Tribune\" and \"Birmingham World\", and members of the Southern Negro Youth Congress, or SNYC, amongst others coordinated efforts to bring justice for Recy Taylor. SNYC members, together with Rosa Parks and other primarily female activists helped spread Recy Taylor's story all the way up the coast to Harlem, New York. Stories of Taylor's assault were printed in the \"Pittsburgh Courier\" making the \"rape of Recy Taylor a southern injustice\" which \"immediately sparked nation-wide interest.\" This led to a publication in the \"New York Daily News\" titled \"Alabama Authorities Ignore White Gang's Rape of Negro Mother\" and attacked the long lasting segregation and defense of white womanhood as well as the \"manipulation of interracial rape to justify violence against black men.\" After various other newspaper publications and widespread knowledge of the attack, black activists started writing to the then Governor of Alabama, Chauncey Sparks. Sparks had promised during his election campaign to \"keep the federal government's nose out of Alabama business\", so after numerous attacks including comparisons of the Henry County's police to the Nazis, \"Governor Sparks reluctantly agreed to launch an investigation.\"\n\nRosa Parks, in her instrumental work to bring justice for Taylor, spearheaded the creation of the \"Committee for Equal Justice for Mrs. Recy Taylor\" (CEJRT). It quickly gathered national support, with local chapters springing up across the United States. The group had an illustrious membership; \"luminaries included W.E.B. Du Bois; Mary Church Terrell, a suffragist and founder of the National Association of Colored Women; Charlotte Hawkins Brown, a popular clubwoman and respected educator; Ira De A. Reid, a sociologist and assistant director of the new formed Southern Regional Council; John Sengstacke, the publisher of the Chicago Defender; Countee Cullen and Langston Hughes of Harlem Renaissance fame; Lillian Smith, author of the controversial interracial love story \"Strange Fruit\"; and Broadway impresario Oscar Hammerstein II.\" The \"illustrious\" group drew the attention of the FBI as the House Un-American Activities Committee argued that the group was simply a cover for the Communist Party.\n\nAfter Governor Sparks launched an investigation, Sheriff Gamble was interviewed again about the measures he took to ensure justice on the behalf of Taylor. Gamble falsely claimed that he started an investigation of his own immediately after the attack. He also claimed that he had arrested all of the men involved in the rape two days after the assault, and that he had placed Hugo Wilson, the man identified as being the owner of the car, under a $500 bond. He also accused Taylor of being \"nothing but a whore around Abbeville\" and that she had been \"treated for some time by the Health Officer of Henry County for venereal disease.\" Later, other white men from Abbeville identified Taylor as an \"upstanding, respectable woman who abided by the town's racial and sexual mores\". Investigators interviewed the rapists, and four of the seven men \"admitted to having intercourse with Taylor, but argued that she was essentially a prostitute and willing participant.\" Others, including Herbert Lovett, denied knowing anything about the attack. However, one of the assailants, Joe Culpepper, admitted that he and the other rapists were out looking for a woman the night of the attack, that Lovett got out of the car with a gun and spoke to Taylor, that Taylor was forced into the car and later forced out of the car and made to undress at gunpoint, was raped and later blindfolded and left on the side of the road. Culpepper's retelling of the story was directly in line with Taylor's original account. However, even with this information including several of the alleged assailants testimonies, the attorney general \"failed to convince the jurors of Henry County that there was enough evidence to indict the seven suspects when he presented Taylor's case on February 14, 1945.\" The second all-white male jury refused to issue any indictments.\n\nThe black community was shocked at the second dismissal of Taylor's case. The news coverage of the second hearing was more hostile towards Taylor based on the false claims of her being a prostitute. The assistant attorney general stated that: \"This case has been presented to two grand juries in Henry County and both grand juries have not seen fit to find an indictment\", claiming that \"no facts or circumstances connected with this case have been suppressed.\" Despite the outcome, the case was considered a major victory for the formation of the civil rights movement because of the successful mobilization of activists across the nation: \"The Recy Taylor case brought the building blocks of the Montgomery bus boycott together a decade earlier.\"\n\nTaylor lived in Abbeville with her family for two decades after the attack. She said that during those years she lived \"in fear, and many white people in the town continued to treat her badly, even after her attackers left.\" She eventually moved to Florida where she worked picking oranges. She later separated from her husband. Their only child died in an automobile accident in 1967. Taylor lived for many years in Winter Haven, Florida, until her family brought her back to Abbeville, due to failing health.\n\nThe publication of Danielle L. McGuire's book \"At the Dark End of the Street: Black Women, Rape, and Resistance—a New History of the Civil Rights Movement from Rosa Parks to the Rise of Black Power\" in 2011 led to formal apologies from the Alabama Legislature to Taylor on behalf of the state \"for its failure to prosecute her attackers.\" A joint resolution was adopted by the Alabama legislature on April 21, 2011, stating:\nBE IT RESOLVED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF ALABAMA, BOTH HOUSES THEREOF CONCURRING, That we acknowledge the lack of prosecution for crimes committed against Recy Taylor by the government of the State of Alabama, that we declare such failure to act was, and is, morally abhorrent and repugnant, and that we do hereby express profound regret for the role played by the government of the State of Alabama in failing to prosecute the crimes.<br><br>BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That we express our deepest sympathies and solemn regrets to Recy Taylor and her family and friends.\n\nState Representative Dexter Grimsley, along with Abbeville Mayor Ryan Blalock and Henry County Probate Judge JoAnn Smith, also apologized to Taylor for her treatment. Taylor received the apologies on Mother's Day in 2011, when she visited Rock Hill Holiness Church in Abbeville, the very church where she worshipped the night of the crime. \"I felt good,\" she said. \"That was a good day to present it to me. I wasn't expecting that.\"\n\nIn 2011, Taylor visited the White House and attended a forum on Rosa Parks at the National Press Club. A 2017 documentary by Nancy Buirski, \"The Rape of Recy Taylor\", premiered at the Venice Biennale and the New York Film Festival, and is screening across the U.S. in 2018. The award-winning film focuses on Taylor and her family recounting their struggle for justice, and seeks to expose a context of systemic racism that fostered the crime and coverup, and persists today.\n\nIn 2018, Oprah Winfrey, spoke of Taylor saying, \"They threatened to kill her if she ever told anyone . . . Recy Taylor died 10 days ago. . .for too long, women have not been heard or believed if they dared speak their truth to the power of those men . . . And I just hope — I just hope that Recy Taylor died knowing that her truth . . . goes marching on.\" In discussing the historical context, Danielle McGuire, noted, \"Decades before the women's movement, decades before there were speak-outs or anyone saying 'me too,' Recy Taylor testified about her assault to people who could very easily have killed her — who tried to kill her.\" In describing Taylor later in life, McGuire said \"She was funny, witty. She was a churchgoer. She loved going to church, she loved to sing. She was very welcoming . . .\"\n\nAt the 2018 State of the Union, members of the Congressional Black Caucus invited Taylor's family to attend the speech and wore red \"Recy\" pins in honor of Taylor.\n\nTaylor died in her sleep at a nursing home in Abbeville, Alabama, on December 28, 2017, aged 97. She was buried next to her daughter's grave at New Mount Zion Freewill Baptist Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19371269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19371269", "title": "Rosa Luxemburg Foundation", "text": "Rosa Luxemburg Foundation\n\nThe Rosa Luxemburg Foundation () named in recognition of Rosa Luxemburg, occasionally referred to as \"Rosa-Lux\", is a transnational alternative policy group and educational institution, centered in Germany and affiliated to the democratic socialist Left Party. The foundation, which was established in Berlin in 1990 (originally as the \"Social Analysis and Political Education Association\").\n\nRosaLux’s mission is to engage productively with what it sees as a diverse, pluralistic and transnational 'political left’, and to help develop its transformative capacities. To this end, the foundation's activities consists of two main tracks: general political education and academic/scientific work. \n\nThrough the Institute for Critical Social Analysis, RosaLux delivers critical research on neoliberal capitalism, produces analytic work on political strategy, policy and democratic socialist alternatives, as well as work addressing injustices pertaining to gender, sexuality, race and nation.\n\nThrough the Academy for Political Education, the foundation offers extensive programs of political education in the form of public conferences, seminars and workshops, and provides courses for youth and adult learners on topics including economic literacy, gender inequalities, sustainable development and political communication. It engages social movements directly and through media such as its website, public events and through the production of informational materials such as pamphlets.\nFurther, through the Centre for International Dialogue and Cooperation, it engages and supports social movement groups and organizations in Latin America, Africa, Asia, Europe and North America in the form of funding, as well as through seminars and conferences that are organized with local partners.\n\nWhile the foundation is centered in Germany, its transnational presence and reach is extensive, with 16 foreign offices supporting activities in more than 25 countries.\n\nIn September 2014, the Rosa Luxemburg Foundation and the Center for Development Studies at Birzeit University organized a conference entitled, \"Alternatives to Neo-Liberal Development in the Occupied Palestinian Territories – Critical Perspectives\", but left-wing Israeli Haaretz journalist Amira Hass was asked by two Birzeit lecturers to leave on account of a rule against the presence of Israelis (which she judged to mean Israeli Jews). She said that she had attended the university many times and had never heard of such a rule. The international conference's organizers were offended. The regional head of the Rosa Luxembourg Foundation Katja Hermann stated after the incident that she would not have agreed to hold the conference at Birzeit if she was aware of the policy. The university later issued a statement that \"The administration has nothing against the presence of the journalist Hass. The university as a national institution differentiates between friends and enemies of the Palestinian people…and works with every person or institution that is against the occupation.\" In a previous incident, Israeli anti-Zionist historian Ilan Pappé had been invited to deliver a lecture at Birzeit which was held off-campus, as not to infringe with the alleged ban on Israeli Jews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49010389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49010389", "title": "S. Walter Poulshock", "text": "S. Walter Poulshock\n\nS. Walter Poulshock (died 1997) was an American historian and psychotherapist. As a young assistant professor at Rutgers University, he resigned his position after it was discovered that his 1965 book \"The Two Parties and the Tariff in the 1880s\" among other work was based on fabricated quotes.\n\nPoulshock subsequently retrained as a psychotherapist, and practiced in this field, dying in 1997. The case has been described as one of the most notable examples of academic fraud in American historical research prior to the more widely publicised \"Arming America\" case.\n\nPoulshock studied for a PhD at the University of Pennsylvania, specialising in politics of the 1880s, and graduated in 1962. He then adapted his thesis into a book, published by Syracuse University Press.\n\nPoulshock received an appointment as an assistant professor at Rutgers and the book initially received some favourable attention. However, reviewer Jerome L. Sternstein (who wrote two articles on the case in 2002) and others came to realise that many quotes were from letters that did not exist. In addition, it emerged that Poulshock had never been to a department of the Library of Congress where he claimed to have carried out much of his research.\n\nPoulshock was reportedly challenged by a meeting of Rutgers faculty, where he confessed and agreed to leave.\n\nThe book was initially withdrawn under the justification of 'technical issues'. A rush of buying copies took place as historians aware of the real facts sought to quickly buy copies for their own examination or as souvenirs before the book was withdrawn.\n\nThe University of Pennsylvania declined to provide a comment on the topic to its student newspaper, leading the paper to publish both a news article and an opinion piece in April 1966 on the topic in protest.\n\nIn July 1966 the \"American Historical Review\" stated that the book was based \"confessedly in part upon evidence which does not exist, has been withdrawn as far as possible from circulation, and anyone attempting to use it should be advised of this.\"\n\nSternstein wrote in 2002 that he was concerned that the case had not been sufficiently publicised, meaning that Poulshock's work continued to be cited by historians unaware that it was fraudulent, and it had never been removed from the shelves of many university libraries. This concern has also been raised since. Indeed, his book and thesis have continued to be occasionally cited, as recently as 2013.\n\nPoulshock received another doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania, this time in sociology. He moved to Ohio, where he served as director of program management for the Windsor Behavioral Health Network.\n\n"}
{"id": "554061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554061", "title": "School run", "text": "School run\n\nThe school run is a modern British phenomenon resulting from parents taking their children to school by car. Many parents park their cars in school parking lots and driveways to drop off and pick up their children at the appropriate times.\n\nIn the past it was normal for children to walk to school, either on their own, with friends, or accompanied by an adult. Walking to school has fallen from 61% of primary school pupils in 1992/4 to 50% in 2004.\nIn recent years walking to school has become less common as more and more students are dropped off at school by parents using cars, sometimes in a rota with other parents.\n\nThe reasons for this are manifold. Firstly, in many cases both parents work and do not have time to walk their children to school, and do not know any other parents who have the time either. Secondly, even if the children are old enough to walk on their own (or cycle), most parents are worried that something may happen to them, e.g. abduction, car accidents, etc. Often there is no convenient bus service, and the distance is too far for walking, thus forcing the school run.\n\nThe risk of children being run over near their schools is much higher than in the past due to all the parents driving their own children to school and parking in unsafe places near the school gates. It is not unusual to see drivers parking their cars in bus stops, on pedestrian crossings or facing the wrong way, with children getting in or out of the car.\n\nThe fear that something may happen to the children has perhaps more to do with media coverage of isolated cases than any real threat.\n\nSome schools now have a 20 mph speed limit operating when the children are about, though traffic congestion often necessitates a lower speed.\n\nWith the increase in a choice of schools for parents, children may have to travel further and are more likely to require a bus or car ride.\n\nIt is claimed that the school run is responsible for a large amount of the traffic problems in the morning rush hour. \n\nThe decreasing amount of exercise and associated increase in obesity are also partly blamed on the school run.\n\nTo combat the issue of exercise, or lack thereof, many schools have started employing programs and techniques to encourage children to walk to school, whilst mitigating the possible dangers of walking to school. An example of one of these programs is the 'walking school bus' whereby children at selected schools can elect to travel within an organised group of school children and volunteer parents. \n\nThe school run has become a popular target for some politicians and campaigners against the use of cars for journeys which could be better walked or cycled. One of the campaigns promoting this alternative is the walk to school campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "8872363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8872363", "title": "Scott Atran", "text": "Scott Atran\n\nScott Atran (born February 6, 1952) is a French-American anthropologist who is a Director of Research in Anthropology at the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique in Paris, Research Professor at the University of Michigan, and cofounder of ARTIS International and of the Centre for the Resolution of Intractable Conflict at Oxford University. He has studied and written about terrorism, violence and religion, and has done fieldwork with terrorists and Islamic fundamentalists, as well as political leaders.\n\nAtran was born in New York City in 1952.\n\nWhile a student, he became assistant to anthropologist Margaret Mead at the American Museum of Natural History. He received his BA from Columbia College, MA from Johns Hopkins University, and PhD in anthropology from Columbia University.\n\nAtran has taught at Cambridge University, Hebrew University in Jerusalem, the École des Hautes Études and École Polytechnique in Paris, and John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York City. He is a research director in anthropology at the French National Centre for Scientific Research and member of the Jean Nicod Institute at the École Normale Supérieure. He is also research professor of public policy and psychology at the University of Michigan, founding fellow of the Centre for the Resolution of Intractable Conflict at Oxford University, and cofounder of ARTIS International.\n\nIn 1974 he originated a debate at the Abbaye de Royaumont in France on the nature of universals in human thought and society. Other participants included linguist Noam Chomsky, psychologist Jean Piaget, anthropologists Gregory Bateson and Claude Lévi-Strauss, and biologists François Jacob and Jacques Monod, which Harvard's Howard Gardner and others consider a milestone in the development of cognitive science.\n\nAtran has experimented on the ways scientists and ordinary people categorize and reason about nature, on the cognitive and evolutionary psychology of religion, and on the limits of rationality in understanding and managing deep-seated cultural and political conflict. His work has been widely published internationally in the popular press, and in scientific journals in a variety of disciplines. He has briefed members of the US Congress and the National Security Council staff with documents and presentations including \"The Devoted Actor versus the Rational Actor in World Conflict\", \"Comparative Anatomy and Evolution of Global Network Terrorism\" and \"Pathways to and from Violent Extremism\". He was an early critic of U.S. intervention in Iraq and of deepening involvement in Afghanistan. In April 2015, he addressed the United Nations Security Council on \"Youth, Peace, and Security.\"\n\nAtran has also been a staunch opponent of political attempts to eliminate government funding for social science, arguing that it is critical to the national interest, including innovation and security in business, technology, medicine and defense.\n\nAtran has published research on the limits of rational choice in political and cultural conflict.\n\nHe has collaborated on research on how political negotiations could be made more likely to produce agreement. Atran and the psychologists Jeremy Ginges and Douglas Medin and political scientist Khalil Shikaki conducted an experiment that surveyed \"600 Jewish settlers in the West Bank, more than 500 Palestinian refugees, and more than 700 Palestinian students, half of whom identified with Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad.\" The researchers divided the subjects into three groups, each of which was presented with a different \"hypothetical peace deal.\" In the basic situation, those surveyed were presented with \"a two-state solution in which the Israelis would withdraw from 99 percent of the West Bank and Gaza but would not have to absorb Palestinian refugees\"; the proposal \"did not go over well.\" For the second group, the hypothetical deal \"was sweetened with cash compensation from the United States and the European Union, such as a billion dollars a year for a hundred years, or a guarantee that the people would live in peace and prosperity. With these sweeteners on the table, the nonabsolutists, as expected, softened their opposition a bit. But the absolutists, forced to contemplate a taboo tradeoff, were even more disgusted, angry, and prepared to resort to violence.\" But for the third group, the proposed two-state solution was \"augmented with a purely symbolic declaration by the enemy in which it compromised on one of its sacred values.\"\n\nIn the deal presented to Israeli settlers, the Palestinians \"would give up any claims to their right of return\" or \"would be required to recognize the historic and legitimate right of the Jewish people to Eretz Israel\"; in that presented to the Palestinians, Israel \"would recognize the historic and legitimate right of the Palestinians to their own state and would apologize for all wrongs done to the Palestinian people,\" or would \"give up what they believe is their sacred right to the West Bank\" or would \"symbolically recognize the historic legitimacy of the right of return [without in fact granting it]\". In summarizing the result, cognitive psychologist Steven Pinker claims, \"Unlike the bribes of money or peace, the symbolic concession of a sacred value by the enemy, especially when it acknowledges a sacred value on one's own side, reduced the absolutists' anger, disgust, and willingness to endorse violence.\"\n\nIn a study of Middle East leaders published in Science (journal), Atran interviewed leaders, as distinct from popular views. In the earlier responses, people rejected material concessions without symbolic concessions, but were open to negotiations that started with symbolic concessions. Leaders responded the same way, except that they saw the symbolic concession as only an introduction to significant material concessions as well.\n\nFor example, when the researchers asked Musa Abu Marzouk, deputy chairman of Hamas, about a trade-off for peace without granting a right of return, he said “No.” When he was offered a trade-off with a substantial material incentive, he said “No” even more emphatically; “we do not sell ourselves for any amount.” But when he was offered an apology, he said “Yes,” although an apology would only be a beginning. “Our houses and land were taken away from us and something has to be done about that.”\n\nSimilarly, when the researchers asked Binyamin Netanyahu (then opposition leader), “Would you seriously consider accepting a two-state solution following the 1967 borders if all major Palestinian factions, including Hamas, were to recognize the right of the Jewish people to an independent state in the region?” he said, “Yes, but the Palestinians would have to show that they sincerely mean it, change their textbooks and anti-Semitic characterizations and then allow some border adjustments so that Ben Gurion [Airport] would be out of range of shoulder-fired missiles.”\n\nAtran has worked with the United Nations Security Council and has been engaged in conflict negotiations in the Middle East\n\nHis work on the ideology and social evolution of transnational terrorism, which has included fieldwork with mujahedin and supporters in Europe, the Middle East, Central and Southeast Asia, and North Africa, has challenged common assumptions. Cognitive psychologist Steven Pinker summarizes some of Atran's findings thus: \nAtran has summarized his work and conclusions: \nRegarding Atran's analysis of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant as a revolutionary movement of \"world-historic proportions,\" a writer for \"The New York Times\" considers Atran: \nThe Chronicle of Higher Education accompanied Atran to frontlines in the battle against ISIS in Iraq, where he and his research team were assessing \"will to fight\" among the combatants: \nA series of experimental studies directed by Atran and social psychologist Ángel Gómez performed with captured ISIS fighters, fighters of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), Peshmerga, Iraq Army and Arab Sunni Militia in Iraq, as well as with thousands of ordinary European citizens, have further elaborated the Devoted Actor framework in an effort to “help to inform policy decisions for the common defense.” According to reporting from \"CNN\":\nAtran argues in an interview in \"The Washington Post\" that: \"Never in history have so few people with so few means caused so much fear.\" He and his research colleagues at ARTIS International contend that: \nAtran and colleagues propose an alternative approach, driven by theoretically-framed field research that ground-truths big data and informs policy-making while maintaining intellectual independence. In 2017, Atran co-authored a groundbreaking paper with Angel Gomez, Lucia Lopez-Rodriguez, Hammad Sheikh, Jeremy Ginges, Lydia Wilson, Hoshang Waziri, Alexandra Vazquez, and Richard Davis. Titled 'The Devoted Actor's Will to Fight and the Spiritual Dimension of Human Conflict', the piece focuses on the spiritual dimensions of conflict based upon field work in Iraq with combatants and lab studies, assessing non-utilitarian dimensions of conflict.\n\nAtran conducts ongoing research in Guatemala, Mexico, and the U.S. on universal and culture-specific aspects of biological categorization and environmental reasoning and decision making among Maya and other Native Americans. His research team has focused on immigration of Spanish-speaking Ladinos and highland Q'eqchi' people of Guatemala into the northern lowland Petén region, and their interaction with the lowland Itza whose language is near extinction but whose agro-forestry practices, including use of dietary and medicinal plants, may still tell us much about pre-colonial management of the Maya lowlands. Atran found that the Itza' rejected majority-culture offers for exploiting natural resources as violating spiritual injunctions that may represent the summary wisdom of centuries of experience; however, later follow-up studies suggest that this wisdom, and the sustainable practices it encouraged, are vanishing as the last Itza speakers die out.\n\nAtran's debates with Sam Harris, Dan Dennett, Richard Dawkins and others during the 2006 symposium on the limits of reason and the role of religion in modern society highlight the differences between these authors, who see religion as fundamentally false beliefs associated with primitive cosmology, as well as politically and socially repressive, and Atran who sees unfalsifiable but semantically absurd religious beliefs and binding ritual obligations as historically critical to the formation and social cohesion of large-scale societies and current motivators for both conflict and cooperation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47921419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47921419", "title": "Shira Leibowitz", "text": "Shira Leibowitz\n\nShira Leibowitz (born July 6) is an American educator with extensive experience leading independent schools. She is co-author of The Coach Approach to School Leadership: Leading Teachers to Higher Levels of Effectiveness, and currently serves as Director of Academics at Catapult Learning in New York City and as an instructor in Northeastern University's graduate school of education. Known for her expertise in instructional coaching and project based learning, she has been at the forefront of utilizing Twitter and on-line distance learning for educators. She has presented at numerous conferences including Jeff Pulver's #140 conferences on education and social media.\n\nLeibowitz holds a Ph.D in education and a rabbinical degree from the Jewish Theological Seminary of America as well as a B.A. Magna Cum Laude and With Distinction in All Subjects from Cornell University. Leibowitz is co-moderator of #educoach, a Twitter chat dedicated to the topic of instructional coaching. Leibowitz is a speaker and writer on educational topics with particular interest in instructional coaching and character and values education.\n\nThe Coach Approach To School Leadership: Leading Teachers to Higher Levels of Effectiveness, Co-authored with Jessica Johnson and Kathy Perret\n\n"}
{"id": "6948710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6948710", "title": "Starehe Boys' Centre and School", "text": "Starehe Boys' Centre and School\n\nStarehe Boys' Centre and School (popularly known as \"Starehe\") is a partial-board,\nboys-only school in Nairobi, Kenya. The school was founded in 1959 by Dr. Geoffrey William Griffin, MBS, OBE, Geoffrey Gatama Geturo and Joseph Kamiru Gikubu. It started as a rescue centre. Starehe and Brookhouse School are the only African schools south of the Sahara and north of the Limpopo distinguished as Round Square members.\n\nStarehe Boys' Centre and School educates at least 70% of its students free, and the rest at a reduced rate. This stems from its founding charter as a charitable school. School fees are paid on a means-tested basis, with substantial subsidies paid by the school, so that students from all walks of life are able to have a public school education that would otherwise be beyond their means.\n\nThe entrance process uses results from the national KCPE exams and prefers to award school places to those who show academic potential.\n\nThe school is governed by a Managing Committee chaired by Jimmy Mugerwa, Country Chairman of Kenya Shell and BP, the school's main sponsors since its inception.\n\nAdmission of students is by open competitive examination. Each year about 20,000 applications are received; only 250 are selected to join the student body and about 6 places are left for very needy situations where the applicant might not have found a chance to apply but is still merited.\n\nCandidates are judged according to need and parental income and their performance in the national KCPE examinations. Selection is solely on merit.\n\nStarehe Boys' Centre was the result of the vision of Geoffrey William Griffin, assisted by Joseph Gikubu, and Geoffrey Geturo. Its genesis was the earlier State of Emergency declared by the Governor of Colonial Kenya during the 1952 Mau Mau Uprising and the resultant overflow on to the streets of poor and destitute Mau Mau orphans.\n\nThe first 17 boys entered the school from Kariokor Rescue Centre, Nairobi, and it was established in two tin huts donated by Kenya Shell and BP in 1959. After a few months it moved to its current location at Starehe, Nairobi.\n\nThe name \"Starehe\" is Swahili for 'Tranquility', 'Peace', or 'Comfort', signifying a place where orphaned boys could find solace in its humble beginnings. It is also the name of the place in which the institution is situated.\n\nThe school is a member of the international Round Square school organisation, offering education to children from diverse backgrounds, many of whom are poor.\n\nThe school uniform is blue short trousers and red shirt, worn with a black tie and blazer or wind-breaker.\n\nLinks with the country and the community are maintained, with a monthly vacation spent in voluntary service to the community, either in hospitals, clinics, dispensaries or government offices, or any other institution that the students deem fit. This is referred to as the Voluntary Service Scheme, and is a way of giving back to society.\n\nStarehe hosts an annual football grudge match against Lenana School immediately before Founders' Day Dinner.\n\nStudents take 'githeri' (mixture of beans and maize), a staple of the school since its inception.Starehe's education places emphasis on academic excellence as well as duty and discipline. An inscription at the Assembly Hall entrance reads \"the path of Duty is the way to Glory\".\n\nStudents perform daily duties that include cleaning their dormitories and the school compound as well as classes and laboratories. These duties are assigned and supervised by the prefects.\n\nStarehe follows a rank-based prefect system. A student may become a prefect from the second year at the school but never are full prefects. They only bear the rank of sub-prefect and are so confirmed during assembly where the Director announces their promotion. Promotion through the ranks is assessed by School Prefects (normally referred to as House Captains), who form the Cabinet of the School. Any potential prefect is vetted by the Cabinet, which consists of the School Prefects, the School Captains and the Director.\n\nCommoners are divided according to year. Those in Form One and Two are Junior Boys, Form Three and Four are Senior boys.\n\nWhen corporal punishment was legal in Kenya, only the Director was allowed to use the cane at Starehe. This was so that he kept abreast of all serious offences in the school.\n\nDr. Griffin took issue with the government's ban on caning, saying the government was bowing to international pressure and that little thought had been given to the implications. It would lead to an escalation in indiscipline and a decline in educational standards, he said.\n\n\nStarehe UK was founded in 1970 to help support Starehe Boys' Centre. In 1994–1996 it raised over £1M through the Aim High Appeal to establish an endowment fund in the UK for the Centre. It has supported Starehe Girls' Centre since its founding. 2009 was the fiftieth anniversary of the Starehe Boys' Centre. The Girls’ Centre was opened in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "9189188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9189188", "title": "TerraNova (test)", "text": "TerraNova (test)\n\nTerraNova is a series of standardized achievement tests used in the United States designed to assess K-12 student achievement in reading, language arts, mathematics, science, social studies, vocabulary, spelling, and other areas. \n\nThe test series is published by CTB/McGraw-Hill. On June 30, 2015 McGraw-Hill Education announced that Data Recognition Corporation (DRC) had agreed to acquire \"key assets\" of the CTB/McGraw-Hill assessment business.\n\n\"TerraNova\" was created with an update in 1996 CTB to the California Achievement Tests and the California Tests of Basic Skills.\n\n\"TerraNova\" are used by many Department of Defense Dependents Schools. The state of California used the test as part of the \"CAT/6\" or \"California Achievement Tests, 6th edition\" as part of the statewide STAR testing program, though only in certain grades. The CAT series of tests have been available for quite some time and before many US states began developing their own standards-based tests as part of an overall testing movement in the United States, which began in the early 2000s. The CAT were also widely used outside of California to assess student achievement.\n\n\"TerraNova\" are used widely throughout the nation, including Pennsylvania.\n\nThe tests are usually multiple choice and answered with bubble sheets. Many take fifteen minutes to few hours, and the tests sometimes extend to over one day. Fifth grade and above include short answers. The results are nationally norm-referenced, meaning that students' scores reflect their achievement in comparison to all students who took the test nationally. Typically this is expressed as a raw score that is then converted into a percentile ranking. This is different from criterion-referenced tests, which measure student performance based on mastery of the material.\n\nIn 2015, CTB released \"TerraNova 3\" Online. The online administered test includes a full battery of constructed-response and selected-response test items provides detailed diagnostic information on students' basic and applied skills.\n\n"}
{"id": "19075768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19075768", "title": "Title IV", "text": "Title IV\n\nTitle IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) covers the administration of the United States federal student financial aid programs.\n\nAmerican colleges and universities are generally classified with regard to their inclusion under Title IV, such as under the U.S. Department of Education statistics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18486521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18486521", "title": "University Child Development Center", "text": "University Child Development Center\n\nThe University Child Development Center (UCDC) at the University of Pittsburgh is a child care and early childhood education center located on Clyde Street in Shadyside just east of the main Oakland campus approximately one half mile from the center of campus at the Cathedral of Learning and adjacent to the rear property of the University's Chancellor's Residence on the Oakland-Shadyside border in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe University acquired the building, the former First Church of Christ, Scientist, in the fall of 1992 for $1.015 million. In 1994, the Pitt proceeded with a $2 million renovation of the building to accommodate the UCDC which opened its doors in the facility on May 30, 1995 after having previously been located in Bellefield Hall.\n\nThe neo-classical-style building was designed by Solon Spencer Beman and built between 1904 and 1905. In 1977 it had been designated a local historic landmark by the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation,\n\nThe University Child Development Center serves as a near-site child care and early childhood education center for children ranging in age from six weeks through six years who belong to the faculty, staff, and students of the University of Pittsburgh. The UCDC also provides laboratory, research, and practicum experiences in observing and participating with young children in classroom-based settings, for Pitt students, and students from other institutions of higher learning. The UCDC also provides resources and technical assistance in implementing appropriate programs and practices that serve young children in Pittsburgh and other communities.\n\nThe UCDC facility houses twelve classrooms including three infant rooms, four toddler rooms, and two three-year-old preschool rooms. Each room is designed to be age-appropriate for the group occupying the space. The UCDC also includes two large motor rooms (one for infants and toddlers and the other for preschool children) and an outdoor playground facility.\n\n"}
{"id": "11668008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11668008", "title": "W. S. McIntosh", "text": "W. S. McIntosh\n\nWilliam Sumpter \"W. S.\" McIntosh (February 2, 1921 –- March 4, 1974) was a civil rights leader from Dayton, Ohio. In 1960, McIntosh went to Atlanta, Georgia to observe the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and on February 26, 1961, he led one of the first major civil rights protests in the Dayton, Ohio community. He challenged segregation in Dayton before the Civil Rights Movement gained attention nationally. McIntosh tried negotiation first. If that didn't work, he roused blacks to push for their rights by picketing, sit-ins and boycotts. He utilized nonviolent methods to fight for the rights of minorities to work at Rike's department store, Liberal supermarket, and other establishments in the Dayton area.\n\nMcIntosh organized community groups and was the executive director of the Dayton chapter of the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE).\n\nOn March 4, 1974, McIntosh was shot in the heart and killed by Calvin Farmer outside his family-owned store while trying to prevent a robbery at a jewelry store in downtown Dayton.\n\nIn recognition of W. S. McIntosh's heroic efforts and civic responsibility, the City of Dayton has named a park in his honor - W. S. McIntosh Park. Dayton community and University of Dayton leaders offered a public salute to W. S. McIntosh in June 2007 at the Dayton Cultural and RTA Center. In conjunction with the University of Dayton, they sponsor a scholarship for minority students who reside in the city of Dayton. This scholarship, the W. S. McIntosh Memorial Leadership Award, covers tuition, fees, and room and board while the student is attending the University of Dayton for eight semesters and is awarded to one student each year.\n"}
{"id": "23994976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23994976", "title": "William Ogilvie of Pittensear", "text": "William Ogilvie of Pittensear\n\nWilliam Ogilvie of Pittensear FRSE FSA(Scot) (1736-1819), known as the Rebel Professor, was a Scottish classicist, numismatist and author of an influential historic land reform treatise. Published in London in 1781, \"An Essay on the Right of Property in Land\" was issued anonymously, necessarily it seems in a revolutionary age.\n\nAs with John Locke, John Stuart Mill, Thomas Paine, Adam Smith and others—Ogilvie is seen as a leading proto-Georgist thinker. His masterwork was republished in 1838, then in 1891 (reprinted 1970) as the heart and subject of a much larger new work titled \"Birthright in Land\", and in more recent years has been republished twice in modern, further expanded editions, using that same title. Ogilvie is cited as an influence by reformers internationally.\n\nThe principal authority and main published source of information on William Ogilvie and his life is his 19th-century biographer DC MacDonald, who says:The facts known about Ogilvie’s life are exceedingly scanty, and themselves be of little importance; but when considered along with the conception we form of the man as displayed on every page of his book, the smallest scrap of authentic information will in these days be of some interest, not only to “men of enlarged and inquisitive minds”, but also to readers in general. It is in the book, however, and in the book alone, that we meet face to face with the author. Ogilvie instilled his soul into it, and he left us evidence that it was the chief aim of his life. We, therefore, should as soon think of separating the man Isaiah from the Book of Isaiah, as we separating the man Ogilvie from the book of Ogilvie.\n\nBorn in 1736, William Ogilvie was the only son of James Ogilvie of Pittensear, Morayshire, and of Marjory Steuart of Tannachy in the neighbouring county of Banff. “A born and bred patrician”, he was lineally descended from Gillecrist, the last Maor Mor of Angus, one of the seven provinces of Pictish Scotland. \"By birth and lineage an anti-Whig, and, as a man, he must have despised the wirepulling Scotch Whigs of his time as 'but a pack o' traitor louns'\".\n\nThere is no authentic account of Ogilvie's boyhood, according to his biographer, who assumes that until he left home for College he was brought up in the diminutive mansion-house of Pittensear and attended the Grammar School in Elgin, the county town and cathedral city five miles away. One dramatic incident in his childhood may have been defining:\n\nWhen the so-called Royal Army was passing through Morayshire in 1746 'Butcher' Cumberland's government troops on their way to the Battle of Culloden, a short halt was made at Pittensear House, and three cannon shots were fired at it. One of these shots struck the front wall close to the dining-room window, and, we need not say, caused the inmates much alarm. William Ogilvie, then about ten years of age, in all probability witnessed that scene—a sad example of what even a Whig Government may do at the head of a mercenary army. He, without any doubt, surveyed the wreck after the storm had passed. We have it on the authority of old people still living near Pittensear, that his mother, who happened to be in childbed at the time, never recovered the shock of that day's proceedings, and that shortly thereafter she was laid in a premature grave. And a few years later, when his disconsolate and broken-hearted father had quitted life's stage, he was left alone, in place of both father and mother, as guardian to four orphan girls. Here we may trace the way in which, what we may call a motherly feeling towards all the children of men, was developed in his breast.\n\nIn 1755, at the age of nineteen, Ogilvie entered King's College, Aberdeen. On graduating in 1759 he was appointed Master of the Grammar School at Cullen, Morayshire—remaining there a year. He then attended Glasgow University in the winter session of 1760–61 and Edinburgh University the following winter. While he was at Glasgow, studying under Dr. Joseph Black, the engineer inventor James Watt was demonstrating his scientific discoveries at the University and Adam Smith occupied the Chair of Moral Philosophy.\n\nMacDonald says that between 1759 and 1762 Ogilvie was travelling tutor and companion to Alexander, 4th Duke of Gordon—\"during which time he probably found himself in the company of Adam Smith as travelling tutor and companion to Henry Scott, 3rd Duke of Buccleuch.\" But Ritchie points out that the period of travel \"coincided with the commencement of Ogilvie's teaching duties and [Gordon] is known to have taken another tutor\" Ogilvie on 'Grand Tour' would have had good opportunity to survey the broad continent of Europe and witness the condition of its people: his reformer eye would not have missed those circumstances and conditions that were to lead to the French Revolution:\n\nThe widow is gathering nettles for her children's dinner; a perfumed seigneur, delicately lounging in the \"Œil de Bœuf\", hath an alchemy whereby he will extract from her the third nettle, and call it rent.\n\nIn 1761 Ogilvie was appointed Assistant Professor of Philosophy in King's College, Aberdeen, and Regent in 1764. The following year he exchanged offices with the Professor of Humanity, which class he taught until he retired in 1817. Ogilvie appears to have lived a somewhat reclusive life, remaining unmarried and childless. He is buried in the south transept of St Machar's Cathedral in Old Aberdeen, adjacent to his college: a discreet stone in the wall describes him as \"William Ogilvie, Esquire of Pittensear, in the County of Moray, and Professor of Humanity in the University and King’s College, Aberdeen, who died on the 14th February 1819, aged 83 years\". His Times obituary called him \"one of the most accomplished scholars of the age\".\n\nThe declared object of \"An Essay on the Right of Property in Land\", according to its original title and introduction, is to show how \"property in land might be rendered more beneficial to the lower ranks of mankind\". Due to what MacDonald calls the 'boycotting' of Ogilvie and his masterwork by the establishment, \"the lower ranks of mankind in England, Scotland, Wales, Ireland, and the British Colonies never heard that such a man lived, far less that he left them such a legacy\".\nIn his preface to the 1891 edition of Ogilvie's book, DC MacDonald elucidates Ogilvie's core message:When a child is born, we recognise that it has a natural right to its mother’s milk, and no one can deny that it has the same right to mother-earth. It is really its mother-earth, plus the dew and sunshine from heaven and a little labour, that supplies the milk and everything else required for its subsistence. The monster that would deprive a babe of its mother’s milk, or would monopolise the breasts of several mothers, to the exclusion of several children, is not more deserving of being destroyed than the monster who seizes absolute possession of more than his share of the common mother of mankind, to the exclusion of his fellow-creatures.\n\nIn his \"Essay\" Ogilvie claims the birthright of every citizen to an equal share in the value of property in land, and outlines the practical policy means by which this would progressively be achieved. He asserts \"land values as having three parts, the original, the improved, and the improvable values; the first and third of these [belong] to the community and only the second to the landholder\". Fillebrown provides a considered critical analysis of Ogilvie's proposal: \"The crux of the land problem, according to Ogilvie's analysis, lies in the reconciliation\" of the conflict between \"the claims to an equal share of land, involving right of occupancy, and the claim to more than an equal share, based on labour... 'Rude nations have adhered to the first of these maxims, neglecting the second. Nations advanced in industry and arts have adhered to the second, neglecting the first.'\"To establish a just combination of these two maxims, at the original foundation of states, so as to render it a fundamental part of their frame and constitution, or to introduce it afterwards, with as little violence as may be, to the actual possessions and supposed rights and interests of various orders of men, ought to be the object of all agrarian laws ; and this object being once distinctly conceived, if wise and benevolent men will turn their attention towards it, no doubt need be entertained that very practicable methods of carrying it into execution will in time be discovered, by comparison of projects, or from the result of trials.Ogilvie set out a prototype of the economic policy known as land value taxation, or, as his modern editors style it, community ground rent. However his analysis and proposal are incomplete, says Fillebrown:\"His enumeration of the moral benefits to accrue to mankind from a realisation of his fiscal ideal is a brilliant prognostication that no later and greater economic light has sufficed to dim. But Ogilvie's failure to grasp the full significance of economic rent, especially urban rent, as a social product, and the stress laid by him on his proposed agrarian law, a plan devoted to a now admittedly impossible mechanical allotment of land; are responsible for his being relegated from the Authorities to the Appendix [ie. by Fillebrown from the body of his book to its appendix].\n\nMacDonald describes Ogilvie's \"Essay\" as \"a pastoral prose poem, through which we can realise this beautiful world, with its ample provision for satisfying man's instinctive and rational faculties of enjoyment.\" Ogilvie wrote his revolutionary masterwork between 1776 (the US declaration of independence) and 1781—eight years before the storming of the Bastille. He presented the work as a warning to the \"friends of mankind\", he being \"well aware that great changes suddenly accomplished are always pregnant with danger\".\n\nDespite his so-called 'boycotting', Ogilvie and his work does appear to have had contemporary influence. A copy of his \"Essay\", marked \"with the author's compliments\", was found in the repositories of the modernising Frederick the Great; and Ogilvie was involved in the land tenure reforms carried out by Lord Cornwallis in lower Bengal in 1793.\n\nOgilvie's work was praised by Fillebrown as \"a notable contribution to economic literature, a product of\noriginal and independent thinking\". The ideas it contains were to be taken up and developed a hundred years later by the American social reformer Henry George and definitively presented in own masterpiece, the economics best-seller \"Progress and Poverty\". Thus would Ogilvie's Enlightenment insights be turned into a significant 19th century social and political movement, and become a philosophy that would in turn inspire and inform the modern land reform. and Green movements.\n\nMacDonald delivers a closing paean on Ogilvie's work:\n\nHis \"Essay on the Right of Property in Land\", in every line of it, says: suffer little children to come unto me, and I shall teach them that God is no respecter of persons; that all the children of men are entitled indiscriminately to an equal share in the soil, in all wild animals, game, fish, and the whole products of nature, necessary for man’s subsistence or enjoyment; and that anything contrary to this doctrine is a gross and blasphemous slander on the Creator, as well as a most iniquitous fraud on the bulk of mankind.\n\nOgilvie’s biographer makes a sustained and compelling argument—presenting circumstantial but no concrete evidence—that Ogilvie was personally acquainted with his compatriot Robert Burns. He appealingly places the two men side by side:\n\nBoth were lovers of mankind, and there was a very strong mental affinity between them. Ogilvie was known as “the gentleman an’ scholar”, but never (except within a very limited circle) as a Land Law Reformer. This is a regretful circumstance. It is equally regretful that Burns is more known as “a rhyming, ranting, roving billie” than as a pioneer and great thinker, in regard to reforms for the benefit of mankind…. Ogilvie and Burns saw eye to eye; but while Burns roused up his fellow-men from the gutter of serfdom, Ogilvie reasoned with them as to the causes which brought them to such a low condition, and also as to the means of reclaiming their natural rights. Ogilvie considered the whole question from a magnanimous, impartial, and truly scientific point of view. He pleaded for “free inquiry”; he sought after truth; he was not one of those rough-and-ready reformers who would simply say, “Abolish landlordism and all evils will vanish”. No. He looked upon modern landlordism not as a cause but as an effect. The primary and fundamental cause of all the evils under which humanity suffers is traced by him to man’s want of knowledge; and landlordism, with all its consequent evils, under which humanity groans, according to him, is directly owing to man’s ignorance of his natural rights. It is this ignorance which begets slavish submission and breeds oppression. Ogilvie considered the situation logically. In his view ignorant humanity must neglect its rights, and without its rights cannot perform its duties. Rights and duties are co-relative. Ogilvie recognised this very old maxim of Natural Law.\n\nOgilvie came from a family of agricultural improvers. A gentleman farmer and landlord, he managed in-hand a good portion of his inherited lands of Pittensear until 1772, when, apparently for family reasons, he sold the property to the Earl of Fife (reserving a lease on the mansion house and manor farm, which he retained \"to the last parting pang\").\n\nIn 1773 Ogilvie purchased the property of Oldfold and Stonegavel, on Deeside, about six miles outside Aberdeen. In 1808, after thirty-five years of agricultural improvement, having borrowed £2000 from the Duke of Gordon for draining, trenching, blasting and legal fees, he sold it again.\"In the year 1802 we find him carrying through a Process in the Court of Teinds, by which he saved the property from being plundered by increased tithes on the increased value arising from his improvements. He got the tithes valued according to the old rental.\"Although an academic intellectual, Ogilvie appears to have been a practical man: his management of his landed property benefited from his profound theoretical insights; while his theoretical knowledge was bolstered by his hands-on practical experience on the land.\n\nRitchie says \"Ogilvie enthralled his students with the outstanding quality of his translations of classical writers, especially Virgil and Horace, although these were never published\", and that \"his scholarship extended to natural history and the fine arts\". Ogilvie was a keen antiquary, medallist, numismatist and collector—of natural specimens and of rare prints, mainly portraits. Commencing around 1772, Professor Ogilvie beganof his own accord to put together a collection of specimens for a museum of natural history in the King's College, and has now fitted up, and furnished three apartments for their accommodation. [He procured]...an assortment of specimens of fossils, and in the various branches of zoology as might serve to excite the liberal curiosity of youth, and make them, in some measure, acquainted the immense variety of the works of nature... One is astonished to find so large a collection of birds, fishes, marbles, spars etc., accumulated in so short a space.His collection developed into the Aberdeen University Zoology Museum, one of the oldest in the country.\n\nDuring his tenure at Aberdeen Ogilvie was an active educational reformer, helping to sweep aside \"a gavelkind system of distributing University honours\". \"Ogilvie's clarity of thought, freedom from preconceptions, and disinterested motives inevitably brought him into conflict with colleagues in King's College\". Professor Ogilvie held the modern view that Universities were public institutions, and professors public servants (with regard to teaching) and trustees for the public (with regard to endowments, buildings, libraries, etc). The 18th century Masters of King’s College collectively were of a different view.\n\nMacDonald records that during Ogilvie’s time as a member of King’s Collegehis colleagues not only alienated some of the lands belonging to the College, but they misapplied and ‘misappropriated’ College funds. They also disposed of the patronage of no less than fifteen churches, and, worse still, the right of presentation to twenty bursaries. The great landlords were the purchasers of these saleable commodities, and in this way they became the private owners of rights and duties which, until then, were held by the Professors in trust for the public. The money received for Church patronage has been accounted for, but the price of the other articles of commerce was appropriated by the Masters as their own private property. It became 'money in their purse'.\n\nOgilvie protested and sought reform:For upwards of half-a-century Prof. Ogilvie was perhaps the most energetic member of Senatus, his decidedly progressive views bringing him not infrequently into conflict with his more conservative colleagues. The pages of the College Minutes during his incumbency bristle with protests against, and reasons of dissent from, the decision of the majority.\n\nA contemporary printed paper titled 'Outlines of a Plan for Uniting the King’s and Marischal Universities of Aberdeen, With a View to Render the System of Education More Complete' is believed to have been authored by Ogilvie. Its reform proposals were rejected by his own College, with seven out of Ogilvie’s ten Professor colleagues opposing it—the \"seven wise Masters\" as they became known. It was not until 1860 finally that the 1786 plans were implemented.\n\nIn 1764 Ogilvie’s name is connected with a scheme for a Public Library in Aberdeen. This, like educational reform, was another grand public project that would remain unrealised in his lifetime (but since achieved). His greatest, radical yet practical proposition for the public good—the equitable sharing of nature's bounty among all citizens—remains unfulfilled.\n"}
{"id": "25476897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25476897", "title": "XV Gymnasium", "text": "XV Gymnasium\n\nThe school was founded as Fifteenth Mathematical Gymnasium (\"XV. matematička gimnazija\") in 1964. It was the among the first schools in former Yugoslavia specializing in mathematics along with Mathematical Gymnasium (\"Matematička gimnazija\") in Belgrade.\n\nThe first principal was Stefanija Bakarić, sister of Vladimir Bakarić, one of the leading politicians in the ruling League of Communists of Yugoslavia and the chairman of the League of Communists of Croatia at the time. The original curriculum was composed with the help from acclaimed university professors Svetozar Kurepa, Branislav Marković and Vladimir Devide. At the beginning, most of the teachers were university professors.\n\nIn 1965, it became the first school in Croatia to have information science as a school subject. Students first got the chance to work on actual computers in 1980.\n\nIn 1977, the school, now in a new building, merged with Seventh Gymnasium (\"VII. gimnazija\") and Fourteenth Gymnasium (\"XIV. gimnazija\", also then known as \"25. maj\"). The newly founded school was named Education Center for Mathematics and Computer Science (\"Matematičko informatički obrazovni centar\"), abbreviated as MIOC. The school is still informally widely known under that name.\n\nDenis Kuljiš, a known Croatian political columnist and opinion maker, himself an alumnus of XV. gimnazija, argues that at this point the quality of the school started to go down, since the teachers at other schools involved in the merger were not up to the standards of the school.\n\nIn 1982, MIOC was renamed to MIOC Vladimir Popović. \n\nIn 1991, after the fall of Communism, the school changed its name and was once again known as Fifteenth Gymnasium.\n\nIn 2007, the management of the school planned to hold a celebration of its thirty years of existence which sparked strong protests from alumni who graduated before 1977. In the end, the school held the celebration while mentioning both 1964 and 1977 as important dates in the history of the school.\n\nThe school moved to the current building in Jordanovac, which is in the Maksimir neighborhood of Zagreb, in the seventies. Before that, it was located in an older building in Sutlanska street. The new building was built especially for this purpose and thus contains some of the infrastructure that schools in Zagreb, Croatia and the whole Balkan region lack. There are two gyms, an outdoor sports center, a cafeteria and a movie theater. The school prides itself especially on the amount of modern technology available to both teachers and students.\n\nIn 2008, the third wing of the building was opened. With an increased number of classrooms, the classes now take place only in the morning while afternoons are reserved for extracurricular activities, a relative rarity among Croatian schools.\n\nThere are around 1200 students divided into two parts: the so-called \"national program\" and the International Baccalaureate program.\n\nIn the national program, the students follow the curriculum of mathematical - natural scientific gymnasium, as outlined by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports (\"Ministarstvo znanosti, obrazovanja i športa\"). There are three sub-programs, the \"Information Science\" program which has an additional weekly hour of mathematics and an additional weekly hour of computer science, the Mathematics program. with two additional weekly hours of mathematics, and the \"General\" program with two weekly hours of a second foreign language, usually German.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate program, implemented at the school in 1991, is not publicly funded but is instead financed by student tuitions. In it, the school follows the usual IB curriculum, divided into two segments: IB Middle Years Programme (grades 9 and 10) and IB Diploma Programme (grades 11 and 12). Around 200 Croatian and foreign students are in IB classes. All the classes are conducted in English.\n\nBesides the usual range of extracurricular activities, the school prides itself on the work it does preparing their students for national and international competitions. University students work along full-time teachers preparing the students, which is a rather uncommon way of preparing used only in a few Croatian schools and a few more schools in the Balkans.\n\nAmong most notable international results are multiple successes, both in team and single events, at:\n\nAlso noted in the local media, arguably even more than the more important successes mentioned above, were the successes in American Computer Science League, controversially painted in the media as \"triumph of knowledge over wealth\".\n\nMost of the students participating in the international and top-tier national competitions come from the publicly funded national program.\n\nBesides cooperating with many governmental and non-governmental organizations dealing with education in Zagreb, the school is noted for its long-standing friendship with Second Gymnasium (\"II. gimnazija\") in Maribor, Slovenia. The students of Second Gymnasium participated in the school celebrations in 2007 with the performance of the musical We Will Rock You.\n\nAlso, the school runs an exchange and cooperation program with Kasetsart University Laboratory School, one of the more notable schools in Bangkok, Thailand.\n\nAs Fifteenth Gymnasium specializes in mathematics and computer science, it is understandable that most alumni of the school continue their studies at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing and at the Faculty of Science at the University of Zagreb. Some of them continue working in the science industry after university graduation. There are many alumni working at aforementioned faculties ranging from teaching assistants to academics, such as Marko Tadić, a professor at the Department of Mathematics. Branko Jeren, who was the Minister of Science and Technology of Croatia in the mid-nineties, who is also currently a professor at Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, is also an alumnus of the school.\n\nMany of MIOC graduates went abroad, either immediately after finishing high school or later. Perhaps the most notable scientist who graduated from MIOC is Marin Soljačić, a physicist currently residing in the United States. Some later returned to Croatia, but continued working internationally, such as Bojan Žagrović.\n\nAs alumni culture is not well-developed in the Balkans, it is difficult to compose a complete list of notable alumni of Fifteenth Gymnasium, especially in areas other than science. Besides Denis Kuljiš, a known political columnist and reporter from Zagreb, some national TV personalities and actors also graduated from Fifteenth Gymnasium. Examples include Filip Brajković, Amar Bukvić (who graduated in the International Baccalaureate program) and Domagoj Novokmet, who acted as a host for the celebration of the school held in 2007 in Vatroslav Lisinski Concert Hall.\n\nFootball player Niko Kranjčar also graduated from MIOC. He is probably the most notable sportsperson known to be an alumnus of the school. Andrej Kramarić, also a professional footballer from Zagreb, is expected to graduate from the school in 2010.\n"}
