{"id": "841306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841306", "title": "Aja language (Nilo-Saharan)", "text": "Aja language (Nilo-Saharan)\n\nAja is a Central Sudanic language spoken in the southern South Sudanese province of Bahr el Ghazal and along the South Sudanese border in the Central African Republic. Although the Aja are ethnically Kresh, their language is unintelligible to other Kresh languages. It is largely Banda in vocabulary, though it remains Kresh in structure. Most members of the tribe are bilingual in Kresh. Alternate spellings are Adja and Ajja.\n"}
{"id": "18723302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18723302", "title": "Altermodern", "text": "Altermodern\n\nAltermodern, a portmanteau word defined by Nicolas Bourriaud, is an attempt at contextualizing art made in today's global context as a reaction against standardisation and commercialism. It is also the title of the Tate Britain's fourth Triennial exhibition curated by Bourriaud.\n\nIn his keynote speech to the 2005 Art Association of Australia & New Zealand Conference, Nicolas Bourriaud explained:\nArtists are looking for a new modernity that would be based on translation: What matters today is to translate the cultural values of cultural groups and to connect them to the world network. This “reloading process” of modernism according to the twenty-first-century issues could be called altermodernism, a movement connected to the creolisation of cultures and the fight for autonomy, but also the possibility of producing singularities in a more and more standardized world.\nAltermodern can essentially be read as an artist working in a hypermodern world or with supermodern ideas or themes.\n\nThe Tate exhibition includes a series of four one-day events (called \"Prologues\"), aiming to \"introduce and provoke debate\" around the Triennial’s themes. Each Prologue includes lectures, performances, film and a manifesto text and attempts to define what the curator sees as the four main facets of Altermodern\n\n"}
{"id": "55309230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55309230", "title": "Amanda Lane Root", "text": "Amanda Lane Root\n\nAmanda Lane Root (July 9, 1889 – October 21, 1918) was an American social reformer in the temperance movement, and a leader in Good Templar activities.\n\nRoot joined Fraternity Lodge of Gloucester, Massachusetts, May 22, 1862, at the institution of the Lodge, and joined the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, February 22, 1865. For over 50 years, Root gave her influence and energies for the principles of Good Templary and the cause of temperance.\n\nAmanda Lane, daughter of Samuel and Martha Lane, was born in Gloucester, Massachusetts, July 9, 1889. She was educated in the public schools of her native town.\n\nFor several years, she worked as a book-keeper for her father, who was largely engaged in the fishing trade. In her public career, she rendered eminent service to the Universalist church and to the temperance cause.\n\nFor many years a member of the Universalist church in Gloucester, she has ably represented that body in the local and State bodies, and the State in the General Convention. Identified with the Woman's Centenary Association from its organization in 1871, at which time she became its Recording Secretary, she was subsequently chosen Vice-President for Massachusetts, having oversight of the woman's work in that State, a position which she most acceptably filled till the pressure of other duties compelled her to resign.\n\nShe is best known to the public at large in connection with her position and influence in the temperance reform. Gloucester, the headquarters of the salt-water fisheries, was, because of the peculiar character of the men who went on the fishing fleet, greatly demoralized at times by the excessive use of intoxicants. These special occasions are when the more than 5,000 fishermen are, at the close of the fishing season, thrown upon the place with plenty of money, and too often under the sway of evil passions. Her first public work as associated with others in the temperance cause, was in connection with a division of the Sons of Temperance, in which she occupied a prominent position, and was untiring in her efforts to secure the results at which it aimed.\n\nIn 1862, when Good Templars, distinguished by its fundamental principle that woman is equally entitled with man to the labors and honors of temperance workers, began to establish its Lodges in Massachusetts, Root, seeing in such an organization an indication of justice and of wisdom, and an opportunity for the best results, united with several of her friends in seeking a charter for Fraternity Lodge, which was instituted in Gloucester in May, of that year. The second highest place in the organization was assigned to her, and at the close of the first term, her manifest abilities created the demand for her becoming the executive and highest officer in the Lodge. Subsequently her services were unanimously sought, and cheerfully rendered, in other positions of responsibility and trust. During her connection with the Lodge, and mainly by her devotion and fidelity to its work, it became the largest Lodge in the State, and was noted for its high rank in usefulness.\n\nIn 1865, Root became a member of the Grand Lodge of the State, and such was her reputation in the Order that she was at once elected to one of the highest and most responsible positions in that body. In 1866 and again in 1874, she was a member of the committee to receive, in behalf of the Grand Lodge, the Right Worthy Grand Lodge, and was at each of these sessions a delegate to the supreme body of the Order. At the first of these sessions of the supreme body, she was chosen Right Worthy Grand Vice-Templar, receiving 49 of the 51 votes cast; and on the following year was unanimously re-elected. Her services were acceptably rendered on Committees on Constitutions and on the State of the Order, two of the most important committees of the Order. At the session of the Right Worthy Grand Lodge, in Bloomington, Illinois, she was again elected to the office of Right Worthy Grand Vice-Templar, and was chosen by the New England Representatives to speak for New England at the Public Reception Meeting. She was in attendance at many sessions of the Right Worthy Grand Lodge, a body composed of the leading temperance men and women of all sections of the world.\n\nIn 1878, she was elected Grand Worthy Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, an office imposing arduous duty, and a difficult position to fill with the approval of such a large and mixed membership; but such was her fidelity, promptness, courtesy and great ability, that she was twice unanimously re-elected. Of her temperance work as a whole, and especially of her labors as a Good Templar, it is not too much to say that her eloquent appeals on the public platform, and her magnetic power in the Lodge-room have been more widely recognized, and brought her into greater prominence than has fallen to the lot of any other woman in New England. While she has avoided, so far as was consistent with her official duties, the notoriety of public life, her earnest speech and her whole-hearted devotion to the temperance cause made for her a reputation which brought constant invitations for her services in the public platform.\n\nIn 1876, she married Solomon F. Boot, then of Hinsdale, Massachusetts. They made their home in East Douglas, Massachusetts. She had two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "30864709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864709", "title": "Armenian Canadians", "text": "Armenian Canadians\n\nArmenian Canadians (, \"kanadahayer\") are Canadian citizens of Armenian national background or descent. The 2006 census determined that their number was 50,500 and the 2016 census determined that 35,790 had Armenian as their mother tongue. A large part of the Armenian diaspora in Canada came from nations in the Middle East and some from Europe. Canada has also seen increased immigration from Armenia, especially after the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Armenians who had escaped persecution from the Armenian Genocide settled in communities in southern Ontario. Early immigrants congregated in \"kratarans\" or reading rooms where Armenian Canadians shared Armenian literature.\n\nThousands of Armenians made their way to Canada after federal immigration policies became less restrictive during the 1950s. Many newcomers were originally from Middle Eastern countries that were affected by strife such as Egypt, Iran, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey. In the early 1990s, some Armenians immigrated to Canada after the disintegration of the Soviet Union. Since 2015, as a result of the Syrian Civil War, thousands of ethnic Armenians from Syria are coming to Canada.\n\nMost Armenian-Canadians are centered in the provinces of Quebec and Ontario and are active in community life. Smaller communities exist in the central and Maritime Provinces, with a slightly larger community in British Columbia.\n\nMontreal, numbering 23,970 people of Armenian ancestry, is center for two Armenian Apostolic (Orthodox) prelacies governing not just Montreal community but all Armenian Apostolic (Orthodox) communities throughout Canada:\nThere is also the Notre Dame de Nareg Armenian Catholic Church (in Ville Saint Laurent suburb of Montreal) and various Armenian Evangelical Churches, most notably the First Armenian Evangelical Church (Montreal) and the Armenian Evangelical Church (Laval).\n\nThe Armenian community in Montreal has two full-time Armenian schools, the Sourp Hagop Armenian School and the Armén-Québec Alex Manoogian School. Laval is the home of the Armenian Catholic Ecole Notre-Dame de Nareg School.\n\nMontreal also boasts the publication of two long-running pan-Canadian Armenian weeklies, \"Abaka\" that debut in 1975 and \"Horizon\" that started in 1979. Both weeklies are in fact trilingual, as in addition to their Armenian-language content, they run English and French special sections as well on a weekly basis. Horizon Weekly also publishes a monthly literary supplement as well as a monthly youth supplement in addition to the annual New Year's edition.\n\nMontreal also has a monument in remembrance of the victims of the genocide. The monument also serves as a memorial to all peoples who are victims of genocide. It is located in Parc Marcelin-Wilson in the Ahuntsic district of Montreal.\n\nThe Armenian community in Toronto, with a 2011 population figure of 17,795, is centered in the neighborhoods of Don Valley Village and Pleasant View in north-central Toronto. The hub of the community is the Armenian Community Centre<ref</ref> of Toronto complex at Victoria Park and the 401.\n\nFrom its beginnings in the early 1960s, the Armenian Community Centre of Toronto has been the hub of the Toronto-Armenian community since 1979. The grounds of the Armenian Community Centre are also home to the A.R.S. Armenian School (which offers nursery, kindergarten, elementary and secondary level education), St. Mary Armenian Apostolic Church and the Armenian Youth Centre, which house several community organizations such as the Armenian Relief Society, Homenetmen Armenian General Athletic and Scouting Union, Hamazkayin Armenian Cultural and Educational Society, the Armenian National Committee of Canada, the Armenian Youth Federation, Armen Karo Student Association, the A.R.F. Junior Organization of Canada and the Armenian Senior Citizens Club.\n\nArmenian Apostolic churches include Holy Trinity Armenian Church (Diocese of the See of Holy Echmiadzin) and St. Mary Armenian Apostolic Church (in Willowdale, pertaining to the diocese of the Holy See of Cilicia)\n\nSt. Mary Armenian Apostolic Church airs a weekly Armenian radio show every Sunday from 8pm to 11pm on 1690am, named The Voice of Giligia.\n\nArmenian Catholics have their own church St. Gregory the Illuminator in Toronto. \"Toronto Hye,\" an Armenian-related periodical is published monthly by the community.\n\nWith a small thriving Armenian community of 1,425, Canada's capital city is the home of the St. Mesrob Armenian Apostolic Parish.\n\nDue to the growth of the Armenian community, many have established outside the Greater Toronto Area. Present day communities are present throughout the province in Mississauga, St. Catharines, Hamilton, Windsor and Cambridge, numbering roughly 6,000 Armenians.\n\nParishes under the diocese of the See of Holy Echmiadzin include St Vartan in Mississauga, St. Gregory the Illuminator in St. Catharines, St. Mary in Hamilton and Holy Resurrection in Windsor. Parishes under the diocese of the Holy See of Cilicia include St. Nishan in Cambridge and St. Paul in St. Catharines.\n\nThe community, which had 2,705 people of Armenian ancestry per the results of the 2011 Canada Census, has its own Armenian Apostolic Churches: St Vartan Armenian Church (diocese to the See of Holy Echmiadzin) and St. Greogory the Illuminator (in Richmond, pertaining to the diocese of the Holy See of Cilicia).\nThe diversity of the Armenians in Vancouver, BC ranges from those that immigrated from Iran, Syria, Iraq, Lebanon and even Turkey. \nThe community recently (2014) inaugurated the Armenian Genocide Memorial, which commemorates and was dedicated to the first Genocide of the 20th century, April 24, 1915.\n\n\nGeneral\n\nReligious links:\n"}
{"id": "40011735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40011735", "title": "Australians in Singapore", "text": "Australians in Singapore\n\nAustralians in Singapore consists of immigrants from Australia and Singaporean citizens of Australian descent. As of October 2012, there are about 20,000 Australians living in Singapore.\nDespite a mining boom and a strong economy at home, an increasing number of Australians have left for jobs and promotion opportunities in Asia and elsewhere. Many left for Singapore due to the growth of the country's economy and its population slowing has made it more of a destination. However, many of the Australians who move to Singapore are likely to retain their Australian citizenship and would eventually move to another country or return to Australia.\n\nIn 2001, about 2,325 Australians left for Singapore. Since then, the number has jumped to 5,431 in 2008, 6,428 in 2009 and 6,952 in 2011. \n\nAustralians are well represented in online media and on Mediacorp television. The Television channel, Australia Plus is broadcast in Singapore. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2888473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2888473", "title": "Bamum language", "text": "Bamum language\n\nBamum (\"Shü Pamom\" \"language of the Bamum\", or \"Shümom\" \"Mum language\"), also spelled Bamun or in its French spelling Bamoun, is an Eastern Grassfields language of Cameroon, with approximately 420,000 speakers. The language is well known for its original script developed by King Njoya and his palace circle around 1895. Cameroonian musician Claude Ndam is a native speaker of the language and uses it in his music.\n\nBamum has tone, long vowels, diphthongs and coda consonants.\n\nThe simple vowels are:\nThe consonants are:\n"}
{"id": "50326747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50326747", "title": "Bhagat Singh Memorial Foundation", "text": "Bhagat Singh Memorial Foundation\n\nBhagat Singh Memorial Foundation (BSMF) is a nonprofit foundation based in Pakistan.\n\nThe Bhagat Singh Memorial Foundation was founded in the Pakistani city of Lahore by the activist and lawyer Imtiaz Rashid Qureshi with the aim of proving the Indian revolutionary Bhagat Singh to be innocent of the murder of the British Raj police officer John P. Saunders. Singh, Shivaram Rajguru and Sukhdev Thapar were hanged in 1931 after being found guilty of conspiracy against the Raj, which Qureshi also believes to have been a fabricated case. Qureshi says that Singh is a hero to people in Pakistan as well as in India.\n\nIn 2016, the Lahore High Court granted a request from Qureshi for the case of Singh to be re-opened to prove his innocence, following an earlier order of the court in 2014 that had led to the discovery of the original December 1928 First Information Report (FIR) relating to Saunders' murder. The high court requested in 2016 that the Chief Justice of Pakistan appoint a larger bench to adjudicate but nothing further had happened by September 2017 when Qureshi filed a new petition in the hope of gaining a hearing within a month. By that time, Qureshi was also requesting that a statue commemorating Singh should be erected at the site of his execution in Shadman Chowk, Lahore, which had been a part of the grounds of Central Jail at the time.\n\nQureshi argues that the FIR referred only to two \"unknown gunmen\", rather than to Singh, and that the tribunal that was convened to determine the case neither heard 450 witnesses in the case nor permitted Singh’s lawyers to cross-examine.\n\nAside from asking for a statue to be erected at Shadman Chowk, the BSMF has also been involved in other aspects of commemoration and seeks to promote Singh worldwide through seminars and similar activities. In 2016, the organisation obtained the support of the Government of Punjab, India, in its efforts to convert Singh's birthplace at Banga, Faisalabad district, Pakistan, into a significant memorial. They were promised that the government would pay for the purchase of the family house in the village for that purpose.\n\nQureshi has claimed that Shadman Chowk was renamed as Bhagat Singh Chowk due to the efforts of the BSMF. However, this change was successfully challenged in a Pakistani court. On 6 September 2015, the BSMF filed a petition in Lahore High Court which again demanded the renaming of the Chowk to Bhagat Singh Chowk.\n\nThe BSMF has also been instrumental in facilitating an annual commemoration of Singh at Shadman Chowk on the anniversary of his execution. In 2017, it successfully petitioned Lahore High Court to demand that security measures were in place for the event due to a perceived threat of violence from some religious groups who object to Singh being described as a martyr. The commemoration regularly demands the renaming of the chowk.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "4032706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4032706", "title": "Bonda people", "text": "Bonda people\n\nThe Bonda (also known as the Bondo, Bondo Poraja, Bhonda, or Remo) are a Munda ethnic group approximately 12,000 (2011 census) who live in the isolated hill regions of the Malkangiri district of southwestern Odisha, India, near the junction of the three states of Odisha, Chhattisgarh, and Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe Bonda people are a tribal people who currently live in the hills of Odisha’s Malkangiri district in India. There are two different Bonda tribes: the Upper Bondas with a population of 6,700 who are the most isolated from mainstream Indian society, and the Lower Bonda with a population of 17,000. Upper Bondas have almost no connection to the outside world. Dambaru Sisha took the oath of office to become the first MLA{Member of legislative assembly} to the Bonda tribe, to which he traces his ancestry. Sisha attempts to protect the traditions and culture of the people while providing them with educational opportunities. Only 6% of Bondas are literate. The life expectancy of the tribe is so low they are nearly extinct.\n\nThe unfree labour or \"Goti\" system in India is known as \"Gufam\" by the Bonda people. According to Pati, a male bonded labour is called \"Gufam-Rem\" whereas a female laborer is a \"Gufam-Boy\". Bonda people are often led to bonded labour through marriage, also known as \" diosing\".\n\nA form of dowry (known as \"Gining\") is paid for brides. In \" Gining\" items are used to determine how many arranged marriages will take place. For instance, the number of cows relies upon the social status of the girl. \n\nBonda boys are expected to marry between the ages of 10 and 12. Although a man may pay the price of a bride for his brother, the brother must always return the amount owed.\n\nDivorce, also known as “Lung Sisi” is also an issue within the Bonda people. In some extreme circumstances, such as if a Bonda woman is divorced for adultery, the former husband demands double the price that was paid for their marriage. The village council determines the severity of the case arrives at a decision based upon the number of cows given back. However, if a man is the one who caused the wrong which resulted in divorce, he can no longer get married through an arranged marriage system.\n\nWhen a death or \"mora\" occurs, it is custom to sacrifice a cow on the tenth day, a practice also known as “Gaitang.”\n\nPopulation growth in the Bonda Hills in India led to forest habitat decrease although there existed a well-balanced ecosystem. Poverty, however, became a fundamental issue among the Bonda people due to social customs regarding obligatory marriages and deaths, along with myriad other socio-religious practices. These customs did not improve health condition nor economic status, which has created much poverty for them. For instance, crop production is hardly able to feed the population. In order to overcome starvation, the Bonda people, or \"Ku duburu Remo\", often take out loans (\" Kalantar\" or \"Badi\") in order to eat. The loans are usually in cash and are taken from a community member or a figure that serves as a landlord \"Sakar Remo\". Roughly 62 out of 245 households in the Bonda hills are in debt. Loans taken even in cash are charged interest rates, and these funds often provide payments for: bride prices, fines, and the performance of socio-religious rites. As a result, debt payment becomes difficult, with constant fines and interest rates being increased. Very often the Bonda people are led to debt bondage and are forced to liquidate assets such as: land, trees, animals, etc.\n\nThe Bonda are a scheduled tribe of India and are also known as the Remo (meaning \"people\" in the Bonda language). The tribe is one of the oldest and most primitive in mainland India; their culture has changed little for more than a thousand years. They are one of the 75 Primitive Tribal Groups identified by the Government of India. Their isolation and known aggressiveness continue to preserve their culture despite the pressures of an expanding Indian population. Their language belongs to the Munda branch of the Austroasiatic language family. It is most closely related to the Gutob language.\n\nRealizing that the Bonda people were in a cultural decline, the Government of Orissa brought to life the Bonda Development Agency (BDA) in 1977. Despite the initiatives taken by the Bonda Development Agency since then, the literacy rates of the Bonda tribes remain one of the lowest, as low as 14 percent.\n\nTwo of the most important phonetic features that characterize the Bonda language are the glottal stop, which is a glottal plosive produced by the release of the breath behind the vocal chords, and checked consonants. Those sounds are also featured in Munda languages as a whole. It is the checked consonants \"k’\" and \"p’\" that occur in Bonda, found mostly in the final position of native words. The glottal stop, however, may occur initially in native words. In fact, the checked consonants \"k’\" and \"p’\" are pre-glottalized. The checked consonants behave differently in Bonda depending on whether they are followed by a vowel or another consonant. It has been found that when \"k’\" and \"p’\" are followed by a vowel their glottal stop remains, but they become the sounds \"g\" and \"b\". It currently appears as though the Bonda \"k\"' is being fully replaced by the \"g\" sound. This may be a product of recent Bonda assimilation into contemporary Indian culture. It is resulting in the loss of one of the original Bonda sounds.\n\nThe Bonda are generally semi-clothed, the women wear thick silver neck bands. The Bonda attire is explained in a legend relating to the Ramayana. According to it, some Bonda women chanced upon Sita who was bathing at a pond in the Bonda hills and, seeing her naked, they sniggered. Enraged, Sita cursed them to a life where they would be condemned to remaining naked and having their heads shaven. When the Bonda women pleaded forgiveness, Sita gave them a piece of cloth she tore off her sari. This explains, according to the legend, why Bonda women have shorn heads and wear only a \"ringa\", a length of cloth that covers the waist. Their torsos are covered in strings of colourful beads. Bonda women also wear metal rings that cover their necks and bangles on their arms. Since Bonda women hunt and forage for food in the forest it is thought that these ornaments have a function of protecting them from injuries and attacks by wild animals.\n\nBonda women have their heads shaved and adorned with two types of headbands, called \"turuba\" and \"lobeda\". The \"turuba\" is made of grass and the \"lobeda\" made of beads. Worn together the \"turuba\" secures the \"lobeda\" by preventing the beaded headband from slipping off the woman's head. Bonda women wear metal bands adorning their necks, which are called \"khagla\" and are made from aluminum. Including the bands around their neck, necklaces made of beads are also worn, these are called \"Mali\". Due to the culture surrounding their \"ringa\" cloth which covers the waist down, the \"khagla\" and \"Mali\" act as a sort of clothing for the upper body of the women. Both men and women of the tribe wear earrings called \"limbi\" made of brass, and rings on their fingers called \"orti\" made of aluminum. For bachelors or newly married men, it is customary to wear their own set of ornaments. Beginning at the ages of eight or nine, males will adorn their bodies with headbands called \"ornaghboh\", bangles named \"sungrai\", necklaces named \"thangimali\", earrings named \"unsurul\", and rings called \"sanbah\". Once married, men typically do not continue to adorn their bodies with more ornaments.\n\nIn Bonda society, the women enjoy a privileged position. They are the primary workers and providers of food for the community. This matriarchal dominance is also seen in the marital norms of the community. Bonda girls largely marry boys who are at least five to ten years younger than them. Thus the girl looks after her husband as he grows up and in turn he cares for his older wife. In contrast with many other populations in India, the number of women among the Bonda greatly exceeds the number of men.\n\nAmong the men alcoholism is a major issue. They spend much time brewing and consuming liquor from rice, palm and the mahua flower. The Bondas are trained in using arms at a young age. This, coupled with rampant alcoholism and their reputation for a quick temper, has contributed to high rates of fratricide among them.\nThe Bondas still use \"binnimaya pratha\", or barter, and they customarily go to a market every Sunday.\n\nThey like to put castor oil on their heads. The women make \"worli paintings\" in their homes\n\nThe Government of Orissa has over the years tried to bring the Bonda into the mainstream and set up the Bonda Development Agency (BDA) in 1977 with this aim. Outside influences resulted in the Bondas being given new gods. Thus, Jagannath had been pushed into their life and their gods (mostly associated with nature) has been gradually erased from their lives. The curriculum in the government school also seeks to inject this process through prayers and songs. The Bonda have begun to take up non traditional occupations as migrant labourers and as peons and clerks in government offices. This process of mainstreaming has however also had its fallout. Remo or Bonda has approximately 2,500 speakers in the Jayapur hills of Koraput. Despite the large number of speakers of a few Munda languages, bilingualism is widespread. At the present break-neck speed of assimilation, most Munda languages will not survive to the end of this century. All Munda language communities are under heavy demographic and socio-economic pressure to assimilate linguistically to the local Indo-Aryan majority language. The Remo language is now an endangered tongue as more Bondas have taken to Odia as their primary language of communication. The absence of a script or text for Remo adds to the threat of its extinction. It is also feared that other indigenous knowledge of the Bondas will also become casualty to this emphasis on integrating them with Oriya society.\n\nIn response to threat of a cyclone on 12 October 2014, roughly 1,300 members of Bonda and Didai tribes living \"in different villages under Mudulipada and Andrahal gram panchayats\" have been moved to the Tribal Welfare Department which is managed by the Mudulipada Boys High School on Saturday. About 3,000 more would be moved to other schools and buildings near Bonda Hill if necessary. For those tribes staying in \"thatched and kutcha houses\" are being moved to cyclone shelters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4264427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4264427", "title": "Bunak people", "text": "Bunak people\n\nThe Bunak (also known as Bunaq, Buna', Bunake) people are an ethnic group that live in the mountainous region of central Timor, split between the political boundary between West Timor, Indonesia, particularly in Lamaknen District and East Timor. Their language, Bunak language, is one of the few on Timor which is not an Austronesian language, but rather a Papuan language like groups on New Guinea. It is usually put in the proposed language group Trans–New Guinea. They are surrounded by groups which speak Malayo-Polynesian languages, like the Atoni and the Tetum.\n\nAccording to \"Languages of the World\" (Voegelin and Voegelin, 1977), there were about 100,000 speakers of the language, split evenly between the two nations.\n\nToday's settlement area of the Bunak people are located in the mountains of central Timor, ranging from the East Timorese town of Maliana in the north to the Timor Sea in the south, where both the Bunak and the Tetun Dili communities often live side by side in coexistence. The Bunak people are isolated linguistically and socially, since the adjacent Kemak people are in the north, the Mambai people in the east, Tetun Dili people in the south and west and the rest of the Atoni people speak Malayo-Polynesian languages in the west. While Bunak are considered as one of the Papuan languages, even though there are strong influences of neighboring languages. Papuan languages are usually spoken only in the far east of Timor. Because of the language diversity in the region, the Bunak people are able to dominate at least one of the Malayo-Polynesian languages fluently (in East Timor, Tetum language is the lingua franca), while their surrounding neighbors rarely learn Bunak language. In the hard reach mountains, the settlements of the Bunak people are relatively isolated from their neighboring communities. In East Timor, their settlement area expands to the west of Manufahi District and in the West Timor of Indonesia towards the east of the Belu Regency and Malaka Regency.\n\nThe Bunak people of East Timor centers in places like Bobonaro and Lolotoe in the town of Bobonaro District, Tilomar Subdistrict and Zumalai in the municipality of Cova Lima District, Cassa in the municipality of Ainaro District, and Betano and Same in the municipality of Manufahi District. In the western border area of Cova Lima District, the Bunak people form a minority against the majority population of Tetun Dili people. However, the settlements are mixed. Between Fohoren and the coast south of Suai the villages of the Tetun Dili people and Bunak people are found interwoven. A total of 55,837 East Timorese consider Bunak language as their native language.\n\nTo the eastern region of the West Timor of Indonesia, the Bunak people in Belu Regency form the majority in Lamaknen and South Lamaknen districts, and as a minority in Riahat district in the southeast. Similarly, in the southeast of West Timor, the Tetun Dili people form the majority. Individual Bunak settlements can be found among Tetun Dili villages in the Rai Manuk district of Belu Regency, Kobalima, East Kobalima and East Malaka district of Malaka Regency. The westernmost of Bunak settlements are Haroeh (Sanleo Administrative village, East Malaka district) and Welaus (North Lakekun Administrative village, Kobalima district). In the northwest are the isolated Bunak villages of Faturika, Renrua (both in Rai Manuk district) and Babulu (Kobalima district). To the east the settlements of Bunak people lie along the road to the Alas and South Alas Administrative village of East Kobalima district at the border with East Timor.\n\nAccording to the legend, there was once a man named Mau Ipi Guloq, who first domesticated the water buffalo. Together with his brother Asa Pharan, he one day caught two sows, which turned into women. His brother, however, claimed both women separately which eventually led Mau Ipi Guloq to parted from him in a battle. One day a crow disturbed his buffalo, so that Mau Ipi Guloq shot a golden arrow at the bird with a golden blowpipe that he had borrowed from his brother. The crow flew with the arrow and Mau Ipi Guloq followed her into the underworld, where he met her sick ruler. Mau Ipi Guloq offered his help and discovered that his golden arrow was stuck in the ruler. He exchanged it with a bamboo arrow, which he soaked in his betel pouch. The ruler of the underworld was restored to his health and gave Mau Ipi Guloq two oranges of a tree from the underworld that turned into princesses. Asa Pharan asked his brother to exchange one of his wives for one of the princesses. But when this refused, Asan Paran overthrew Mau Ipi Guloq into a ravine and killed him. However, Mau Ipi Guloq's wives found him and brought him back to life by using an oil from the underworld. He returned home healthy and rejuvenated, where his brother also asked for a bath in the oil in order to be young again. The Mau Ipi Guloq's wives heated the oil bath so much that Asa Pharan scalded and died. Mau Ipi Guloq also married his brother's wives and became one of the principle ancestors of the Bunak people.\n\nJust as in any Timorese ethnic groups, there was originally no written tradition. Therefore, there was only historical oral traditions until the arrival of European colonization. Rich tradition does exist among the Timorese, especially the Bunak people. These narrative traditions are recited with repetitions, rhymes and alliterations. This helps the performer to remember the verses.\n\nIn general, it is assumed that the Melanesians migrated to Timor in 3000 BC and were partially displaced from the following Proto-Malay groups from 2500 BC. It is now assumed that the Fataluku people might reach Timor from the east only after the Austronesians and instead they were repressed or assimilated. There were speculation of such scenario even with the Makasae language. In the case of the Bunak people, however, there are only names of places that are of Papuan origin in the center country, thus the Bunak people must have settled here before the Austronesians. But since Bunak people has common parts of non-Australian vocabularies with Fataluku language, Makasae language and Makalero language, so there should have been a Proto-Timor-Papua language, from which all the Papuan languages of Timor originate.\n\nThe present settlement area of the Bunak people is the result of different hiking trail movements. Due to population growth, the Bunak people were forced to expand again and again to find new arable land. External influences led to escape movements and forced resettlement. Thus at the beginning of the Portuguese colonization, which began on Timor Island from the 16th century onward. Until the middle of the 18th century, the Dutch extended their influence into the area of the Bunak people, so that it was divided into two sections; comprising a Western, Dutch and an Eastern Portuguese sphere of interest. But it remained with a predominantly nominal rule of the Europeans exercised by the local rulers. It was only in the early 20th century that the two colonial powers succeeded in building up a real colonial administration. In the Second World War the Japanese occupied from 1942 to 1945 a complete Timor, fought by Australian guerrilla commandos. After the war, the western west became part of Indonesia, while the eastern Portuguese remained a colony until 1975. When the Portuguese began with their departure from Timor, the Indonesians first occupied the border region of East Timor. Nine days after the declaration of Independence of East Timor, it was followed by a full invasion and a 24 year long struggle for independence. The civilian population, who fled during the invasion into the wilderness, only later they had to gradually surrender to the invaders. Until finally, in 1979 the last of the Bunak people had lived in the forests for three years. It was not until 1999 that Indonesia withdrew, and after three years of the administration of the United Nations in East Timor had they finally became independent. The settlement area of the Bunak people remained divided by the new national border. Since independence, more and more people from rural areas have moved to the capital, Dili, as it is with the Bunak people. Many of the people who are drawn were organized according to their geographical origin. Bunak speakers live in the west of the city in Comoro, Fatuhada and Bairro Pite, and the center in Suco Gricenfor, Acadiru Hun, Suco Santa Cruz and Suco Lahane Oriental. In 2006 there were unrest in the county which started mainly by the East Timorians from the east (Firaku) and from the west (Kaladi). Bunak people belonging to the Kaladi were also involved in the collisions. In Dili, for example, there was a conflict between the Bunak people from Bobonaro District and Ermera District and Makasae people from Baucau District and Viqueque District for dominance in the market.\n\nThe core land of the Bunak is located in the middle east of the East Timorese community of Bobonaro and in the north east of the municipality of Cova Lima District. Here is the only place with names of Bunak origin are to be found, while in the rest of the settlements there are also geographic names of Austronesian origin and even Bunak settlement in bordering territories have only Austronesian names. It is concluded that the original homeland of the Bunak people lies in the center of the country from where it expanded. In the Bunak language there are influences of Kemak language and less of Mambai language. From this it is concluded that geographically the original Bunak people also had contact with the Mambai people and Kemak people, whom are also situated in the main land.\n\nIn the northeast, the Bunak people refer to themselves and their language as Gaiq or Gaeq, which is likely to derived from \"Mgai\"; the Kemak name for the Bunak people. According to the oral tradition of the Bunak people, they were formerly belonged to the kingdom of Likusa (Likosa), which once centered in the region of the Tokodede and Kemak people which explains the adoption of Austronesian name of the Bunak people. This kingdom is also said to be responsible for the strong linguistic influence of the Kemak language on the language of the Bunak people. In Marobo (Atsabe Administrative Post) and Suco Obulo, the Kemak people mingled with the Bunak people. This led to cultural differences of the Kemak people of this side compared to the neighboring Kemak people of Atsabe.\n\nIt is reported according to the Bunak narrative in the northwest that they originally migrated from the east to the region south of Maliana and the present Indonesian districts of Lamaknen and Raihat. There they mingled peacefully; depending on the source, with the local Tetun Dili or Atoin Meto people. The existing village names of Austronesian origin support the data from these legends. Legends of the Bunak people only reported in the upper Lamaknen district that their forefathers had either expelled or killed the people of the Melus when they came into the region. Research so far has not clarified whether the Melus was a Tetun Dili, Atoin Meto or another people. Investigations of the Bunak dialects suggest that Bunak people from the northeast and southwest met and settled in Lamaknen district. According to oral tradition, the region around Lamaknen district was an autonomous region of Wehali's Tetun Dili people, bordering on Likusa kingdom. This influence can still be seen today in the Lamaknen dialect uses loanwords for ritual formulations from Tetum language.\n\nIn 1860 the region around Maucatar became a Dutch enclave, while the surrounding area of Portugal was claimed. The borders of the Enclave were oriented at the borders of the local Bunak empires. The area now belongs to the Sucos of Holpilat, Taroman, Fatululic, Dato Tolu and Lactos. The territory of the then enclave of Maucatar is still inhabited by a large majority of Bunak. However, there are also names of places which have their origin in the Tetun Dili people. Therefore it is assumed that the Bunak people have immigrated to this region later and then assimilated with the Tetun Dili people for the most part; which today forms an only small minority.\n\nIn 1897 there were several battles around Lamaknen district areas between the northeastern kingdom of Lamaquitos (Lamakhitu) and the southern Lakmaras kingdom, which had its coalition partners with the Bunak people in the southwest. The end of this last traditional conflict between the indigenous empires of the region has meant that the Bunak people in Lamaknen district have since gradually left their villages fortified on highlands and built houses close to water supplies. Spread over a larger area, the clan members now only come to their clan houses to perform ceremonies. As a result of the various territorial shifts between the Bunak empires, however, the border between the two colonial powers of Portugal and the Netherlands remained a long-standing issue and was the subject of lengthy negotiations. In Lakmaras district, there were several deaths in the same year in clashes between the Dutch and Portuguese troops. The Dutch claim to Maucatar has so far been justified by Lakmaras' sovereignty, which created a link to Maucatar. Meanwhile, Lakmaras had become subject to the kingdom of Lamaquitos, and this was part of the Portuguese sphere of power with the Treaty of Lisbon in 1859. Maucatar would have failed as an Portugal enclave, according to the agreements that were already in place. On the other hand, the state of Tahakay (Tahakai, Tafakay, Takay; now in southern Lamaknen district) belonging to Portugal had subsequently become part of Lamaknen district. Tahakay, however, belonged to the Portuguese sphere of influence, while Lamaknen district belonged to the Dutch. Hence Portugal opposed to this loss in the negotiations of 1902, and therefore demanded the entire Dutch territories in the center of Timor. A compromise was reached with The Hague Convention of October 1, 1904: Portugal was to receive Maucatar, in exchange for the Portuguese enclave Noimuti in West Timor, and the border areas of Tahakay, Tamira Ailala and Tamiru Ailala of Lamaknen District. Portugal ratified the treaty until 1909, but then there was a dispute over the border crossing on the eastern border of Oecusse District. In 1910, the Netherlands took advantage of the unfortunate situation after the overthrowing of the Portuguese monarchy in order to regain Lakmaras with the help of European and Javanese troops.\n\nIn February 1911 following the 1904 Convention, Portugal tried to occupy Maucatar. However, in June, it was faced a superior Dutch armed forces from the Ambonese infantry, supported by European soldiers. On June 11, Portuguese troops occupied the territory of Lakmaras, but on July 18, Dutch and Javanese troops invaded it back. After the victory of the Dutch, the Portuguese then sought a peaceful agreement. They soon fell into trouble by the rebellion of Manufahi District, which brought them to negotiate. On August 17, 1916, a treaty was signed in The Hague, which largely defined the borders between East and West Timor. On 21 November the areas were exchanged. Noimuti, Maubisse, Tahakay and Taffliroe fell to the Netherlands, and Maucatar to Portugal, causing panic. Before handing over to the Portuguese, 5,000 locals, mostly of Bunak people, destroyed their fields and moved to West Timor. The population in Tamira Ailala would rather have stayed with Portugal, while in Tahakay the Dutch were welcomed.\n\nIt was only a few generations ago that Bunak established villages in the lowlands around Maliana, such as Tapo-Memo. Even today these villages still have ritual relations with their native villages in the highlands.\n\nAfter the Second World War, Bunak people from Lebos fled from the then Portuguese Timor to Lamaknen district. They were afraid of reprisals after collaborating with the Japanese during the Battle of Timor. The then ruler of Lamaknen, the Loroh (king) Alfonsus Andreas Bere Tallo, welcomed the arrival the refugees, where they founded the village Lakus (in today's Desa Kewar).\n\nAs a result of the civil war between Augustine and Udt, a refugee movement from East Timorian villages came to the border from August 1975 onwards. Among them were many Bunak people. They came from Odomau, Holpilat, Lela, Aitoun, Holsa, Memo and Raifun. At the end of August, the conflict crossed over on the other side of the border. On the other hand, villages were destroyed, such as Henes in the Desa on the west side of the same name, which has not been rebuilt since. With the invasion of East Timor by Indonesia, which took place later in the following months had also caused more Bunak people to be driven out from their villages to escape the invasion. Some crossed the border, others sought shelter in the woods, where some of the people spent up to three years in hiding. Village communities were thus torn apart and resettled in different places until 1999. Fate had also befell the village of Abis in Lamaknen district. Although the inhabitants returned to their village after their escape in 1975, the village was burned down near East Timor's border. In 1999, other refugees also came to Lamaknen district from East Timor after the independence of East Timor and remained there to this day. There was fighting with the locals and in the process fields, huts and streets were destroyed.\n\nRecently, the Bunak people migrated to the southwest of Cova Lima District in two independent waves not too long ago. The older group lives in a slightly higher areas of Suco Beiseuc (formerly known as Foholulik, 2010: 30% Bunak) and Suco Lalawa (35% Bunak). They came in a large stream of refugees from the community of Bobonaro, when they fled in the Second World War before the arrival of the Japanese army. Guerrilla units of the Allies had operated against the Japanese of Lolotoe and the village of Bobonaro, whereupon the Japanese troops carried out reprisals against the civilian population in Bobonaro in August 1942. This probably cost several tens of thousands of people their lives and drove others to flee.\n\nThe final wave are those Bunak people who settled in the lowland between Suai and its borders. They were forcibly resettled from northern Sucos of Cova Lima District, such as Fatululic and Taroman, by Indonesian occupation forces. The official target was a development program for rice cultivation. However, in 1977, many parts of East Timor were forcibly displaced from parts of remote area populations in order to prevent support for Fretilin. The Indonesian army in East Timor set up so-called \"Internment Camps\", in which hundreds of thousands of civilians were also brought into these camps.\n\nThe Bunak of Namfalus village (Desa Rainawe, Kobalima District) originate from the same escape wave of Bunak people in south Fohorem before the arrival of Japanese troops in the Second World War. Other Bunak people of this region are the descendants of the 5,000 refugees from Maucatar who left the former Dutch enclave after the takeover by the Portuguese. Those Bunak people joined these villages when they fled in 1975 and 1999 before the violence in East Timor broke out.\n\nThe resettlement of the Maucatar Bunak people led to controversy with the local Tetun Dili people, which is why the Bunak had to move repeatedly. It was only in the 1930s that the administration succeeded in locating the refugees at their present places of residence. The Bunak people of these individual places still trace their origin to certain places in Maucatar, such as those from Raakfao (Raakafau, Desa Babulu) in Fatuloro and those from Sukabesikun (Desa Litamali, Kobalima District) in Suco Belecasac. With the threat of amalgamation into their neighboring Tetun Dili people, they are still able to trace their origins.\n\nThe Bunak settlements from Suai to Zumalai were also established only recently. The region was previously uninhabited. These new start-ups also have connections with their places of origin. Thus, Beco village has a deep relationship with Teda village, east of Lolotoe, even though the migration has been for several generations. Their dialect is actually close to that of the Lolotoe region, even if partial vocabulary was taken from the southwestern dialect. Other settlements emerged only during the Indonesian occupation when all villages from the north along the southern coastal road around Zumalai were resettled. Their dialect corresponds completely to that of the highlands.\n\nThe Bunak people live mainly with the Mambai people in the south of Ainaro District and in the south-west of Manufahi District. Speakers of Bunak language of these districts recognizes their origin from the north-eastern Bunak region. Through the close contact with the Mambai people, most of the Bunak people here are bilingual with this Malayo-Polynesian language and their mother tongue also shows influences of the Mambai language.\n\nIn Maununo, it was a suco that composed of only three villages during the Indonesian occupation, 60% Tetun Dili native speakers with 30% Bunak and 10% Mambai people live in Maununo. In Suco Cassa the Bunak people share a population of 55% which form the majority, beside the Tetun Dili and a small minority of Mambai people. Even in Fohoailiku the Bunak people represent the majority. According to oral traditions, the Bunak people of Fahoailiku originate from western Ainaro, which they left due to conflicts with other Bunak groups during the Portuguese colonial period. The linguistic characteristics of the three Bunak groups in Ainaro suggest a common origin.\n\nThere are accounts of their origin that are conflicting. While parts of the Bunak stated that they had only entered the region later, others claimed that they were the original inhabitants. However, all Bunak settlements have Australian names, which would indicate an originally Malayo-Polynesian peoples settlement. So are places with names that begin with \"Mau\" (Mau Nuno, Mau-Ulo, Maubisse); that is typical of settlement areas inhabited by the Mambai people, Kemak people and Tocodede people. In the heartland of the Bunak people, such naming does not occur. Other places with names that are clearly of Mambai origin, such as Suco Beikala, which means \"bei\" \"grandparents\" and \"kala\" \"ancestors\".\n\nIn addition to the three main groups of the Bunak people in Ainaro, there are two other smaller groups, which were moved from the region around Zumalai only during the Indonesian occupation. The first group lives in the villages of Civil (Sivil) and Lailima (both in Suco Cassa). The second group from the east of Suco Casa are two Bunak villages, Leolima and Hutseo (along with its subsequent offspring, Hutseo 2 village) are surrounded by vast Mambai settlements. The inhabitants of these four villages speak the northeast dialect, with the variations typical of Zumalai.\n\nIn Manufahi District there are four isolated Bunak villages. The oldest of them is Loti (Lotin) in the southeast of Suco Daisula. The Bunak people emigrated here from Suco Aiasa in 1891, after a conflict with the ruler of Bobonaro. According to oral traditions, the inhabitants of Suco Aiasa had killed the ruler's wife, whereupon Bobonaro requested assistance from the Portuguese in August 1891. After several battles some of the inhabitants of Suco Aiasa fled to Manufahi. They first settled somewhat further north of today's Loti, where they had only contact with Mambai people and Lakalei speakers. This resulted in a unique deviation and even change in meaning in the local Bunak dialect.\n\nAfter the failed rebellion of Manufahi, a part of the Bunak people of Loti was moved by the Portuguese to the location of today's Loti. Others were settled in two new villages in Suco Betano. One of them is Bemetan as it is known in Mambai language or Il Guzu (meaning \"black water\") in Bunak language, and the second being Leoai (Leo Ai / Leouai). During the Indonesian occupation, Bunak people who remained in the old Loti was also relocated to the new Loti. These three villages share their own extraordinary dialect.\n\nThe fourth Bunak village in Manufahi is Sessurai (Sesurai) in Suco Betano, on the road between Loti and Leoai. According to their traditions, these Bunak people fled from the region around Zumalai to Manufahi during the Portuguese colonial period. Their dialect corresponds to that from Zumalai, but has taken over some words from the Bunak people of Loti.\n\nThe social isolation has also been reinforced part of the reputation of Bunak people. They have been described as rough and aggressive by their neighbors. This characterization can also be found in a Bunak legend, in which Kemak people have long ears and the Bunak people have small ears. The metaphorical length of the ears in the Bunak people points to a short-tempered and impatient temperament, while the Kemak people are described as calm and patient.\n\nAlthough Bunak and Atoin Meto people differ culturally, the social organization and the ecology of both cultures belong in the same context where both the cultures of Atoin Meto and Bunak people benefit from each other. The approach of the Bunak people from a cultural and linguistic point of view is so far that Louis Berthe described it in 1963 as a mixture of Papuans and Austronesian roots.\n\nThe smallest social unit in the Bunak society is the clan or the house, which for example, in the upper Lamaknen is called \"deu\". Several clans live together in villages (\"tas\"). Each village has its own territory. The clans have a different status. The clans of the nobles are called \"sisal tul\" (meaning, bones piece). The name derives from a ritual in which the bones of an animal that was sacrificed belonging to the noble clan. The highest of the nobility houses belong to the clan of the \"feminine\" chieftain. This man decides in case of problems in the village. The second highest clan represents the \"masculine\" chieftain who takes care of the village's relations with the outside world. Other clans are the consultants of the village chefs. Despite their extensive power (\"oe nolaq\"), the two chiefs are subordinate to the ritual chief. This has a limited power (\"oe til\") within the affairs of the clan. Together with one of his sisters, the ritual chief is also the guardian of the holy objects in the clan house. In Lamaknen the siblings are called \"the man holding the black basket\" (\"taka guzu hone mone\") and the \"woman holding the black basket\" (\"taka guzu hone pana\").\n\nThe different clans are connected to each other in the system of the \"malu ai\". The \"malu\" clan are in this case in a partnership, the woman and feminine goods such as pigs and clothes, while from the \"ai baqa\", clan receive wives and give masculine goods. This used to include gold, silver and water buffalo, now replaced by money and cattle. On ceremonial occasions, such as funerals or of the clan house repair, goods between are again \"malu\" and \"ai baqa\" replaced. However, women rarely leave their clan. In the majority of the Bunak family, a matrilineal system prevails for the succession. The man traditionally moves into the clan of the bride (Matrilocality), where the later children also grow up. The husband has to provide as a \"mane pou\" (\"new man\") his children and wife, but is not considered a family member. He also has no claims or rights over his wife and children, even if he had to pay a high bride price. In 1991 this was about US dollars 5,100. If the wife dies first, the widower must leave the village and even his own children, and return to his old home village. This may also be necessary through certain ceremonies. He is not allowed to take any valuable property, therefore he is dependent on the help of his clan and his family. He also does not receive the support from his own children as a clan. When the woman moves into an \"ai baqa\" clan, one speaks of the clipping of the woman from her clan. She is admitted to her husband's clan, where the family forms a new line of lineage (\"dil\"), establishing a new \"malu - ai baqa\" relationship. The children also belong to the clan of the father. Clans can maintain as much as fifteen \"malu\" relationships but there can never be more than three to six \"dil\". They maintain their status in the further course of the mother line. The members of the \"dil\" lead the name of the maternal clan and keep their property and their sacred objects. In Ainaro, however, the influence of neighboring Mambai people has led to a patrilineal structure. Also here the Mambai and Bunak people share a common legend. Thus, the Bunak people from Mau-Nuno derive from the same mythical ancestral couple and the summit of the mountain from which they are derived has both a Bunak and a Mambai name.\n\nHoly objects are handed down by the men to his uterine nephew. In any case of the marriage type, the father can only pass on to the son the objects which he has acquired in the course of his life. Other holy objects belong to the entire clan. They are generally regarded as sources of life energy. They are kept in the clan houses, where only the guardians reside. Previously, all clan members lived together in single lineage or clan house. Sometimes, the guardians still have a young couple who would help them with the daily work. Every clan house has an altar that can be found both inside and outside the house. In the house is the altar on one of the two piles which carry the first beam (\"lor bul\"). Across the street is the fireplace. On the common altar of the village (\"bosok o op\", meaning \"altar and height\") are aligned to all the clan houses' \"lor bul\". The village altar (\"bosok o op\") represents the vital energy of the inhabitants. It is also called \"pana getelmone goron\"; meaning \"root of women, leaves of men\", a metaphor for vitality where leaves move and roots allow plants to absorb water. The longer the roots, the longer the plant lives. Bunak people wishes each other a long life by saying \"i etel legul\" (meaning \"Let our roots be long\") or \"i sth huruk\" (meaning \"Let our roots be cool\"). Cooling, in conjunction with water, symbolizes fertility; Heat is associated with danger and death. Other altars can be located at water sources, others were only used in the event of war.\n\nAccording to legend, when the Bunak people reached Lamaknen, they asked their ancestors in heaven for seeds so that they could work the land. On a field altar, Bei Suri; a man who had joined the Bunak people, was sacrificed and burned. Various parts of his body then appeared on the different plantations that the Bunak people had planted. Several traditional prose describes how various crops such as rice; which still the ceremonial food, were provided by parts of the hero's body. However, there are also versions that incorporate the corn into the legend, which today is the main food source of the Bunak people in Lamaknen. But this was only brought to Timor by the Europeans. The rain is also linked to the self-sacrifice of Bei Suri. After his death, he asked people not to cry anymore, and took the form of a bird that predicts the rain.\n\nThe researcher Claudine Friedberg explored the rituals of the Bunak people in Abis (Lamaknen) during the 1970s to the early 1980s and described in detail the ceremonies of the Bunak people in this region. However, the place no longer exists and a road now connects the region with the outside world, which previously could only be reached with horses at that time. Agriculture here is entirely dependent on the amount of monsoon that occurs. The reliability of sufficient rainfall is the critical moment of the agricultural calendar during the sowing season. It takes place in Lamaknen before the rain comes between October and December. The fields are prepared by means of slash-and-burn. Then the 'Lord of the Seeds' and the 'Rice Masters' lay down the dates for numerous ceremonies. The 'Lord of the Seeds' belongs to the clan to whom the legend is attributed to the sacrifice of Bei Suri. It is, however, none of the nobility houses. On the other hand, 'Rice Masters' are the guardians of the holy objects of certain, distinguished clans.\n\nBefore the sowing, a hunting takes place several days, in which the men usually take wild pigs. In the remaining time of the year, they will no longer hunt like they did. Wild game has become rare with the increase of population growth, so they beat around the countryside to prevent possible damage of their fields by wild animals. The prey is associated with the \"kukun\", \"the obscure ones\". This refers to the local spirits of the deceased Melus who were once expelled by the Bunak people from the region. The \"kukun\" are the masters of heaven and earth (\"pan o muk gomo\") and the masters of the prey. On the contrary, the living are the \"roman\", the \"clear ones\". For the \"kukun\" there are small, inconspicuous altars from only a few stones in the surroundings that are scattered. About these \"muk kukun\" (\"earth obscure\") are the sites where the Bunak people make contact with the \"kukun\" spirits. The main altar stands near the village. In the evening of the first day of the hunt, the 'Lord of the Seeds' puts a liana around the wide cairn and binds its ends to two wooden stakes standing a few centimeters apart. The liana symbolizes the circling of the pigs, which can only flee through a narrow gate where the hunters are waiting for them.\n\nOn the following day, the Rice Masters sacrifice some betel nuts, some alcohol and feathers of a live chicken, to the \"muk kukun\"; which is in the selected hunting area, so that the 'Master of the Land' would surrender the wild pigs. At the same time, the 'Rice Masters' lie down in front of the altar and deceive themselves to sleep, so that the pigs are also to fall into a deep sleep. This makes it easier for the hounds to chase them. The booty of the first hunting day is brought back to the village in the evening, where a woman from the clan of the 'Lord of the Seeds' welcomes with betel just as one welcomes a guest. It is followed by \"Welcome to the Smoke of Fire\" (\"hoto boto hoso\") ritual. The 'Lord of the Seeds', and the 'Rice Master' recite verses in reference to the seeds that were entrusted by the corpse of Bei Suri. One of the 'Master of the Word' sacrifices a cock with red feathers by killing him. The throat is not cut with a knife as it is usually done, to prevent severing ties with the \"seed\". The 'Lord of the Word' recites a welcome text and prays to the 'lord of the village altar'. This title refers to the Melus, who had originally erected the altar, and the first Bunak man who took it over. From the appendages of the cock is used predict about the upcoming planting season. The boiled cock is dissected and spread over small baskets of cooked rice. Some of them are offered to the altar and placed on its top. Then they are handed over to the clan of the female chief. Those baskets at the foot of the altar go to the Sabaq Dato, the clan of the \"feminine chief\" of the Melus. A basket is sacrificed at Bei Suri. This is the 'Lord of the Seeds'. The other baskets are distributed among the hunters.\n\nOn the third day of the hunt at night, the 'Lord of the Seeds' and the 'Rice Masters' bring the meat; which according to their belief contains the seeds of the future harvest, to the \"lataq\" altar at the edge of the village. This is done in silence, so as not to attract attention in carnivores. On the \"lataq\", birds, insects and other animals are symbolically fed with rice and chicken to keep them away. In the afternoon of the third day, the various clans visit their graves and bring them fruits and special cakes. At the graves they meet with members of the respective \"malu\" clans that also bring fruits and cakes. After being presented to the deceased, the gifts are given to the \"ai baqa\" clan.\n\nOn the fourth day, after the last hunt, one last common ritual is performed. Women from all clans of the village bring in large baskets of cooked rice to the 'Lord of the Seeds' at the \"lataq\" altar. This is distributed to the hunters who have injured or killed a pig. It is a kind of compensation, because, contrary to the customary custom, they do not receive any part of the prey from this traditional hunting. The meat is consumed only by the 'Lord of the Seeds' and the rulers within the ritual circle. Exactly at this time the first heavy rain is expected to fall. It is in the experience of ritual leaders that the ritual and rain coincide on the same day and thus marks the success of the harvest. Every three years, the final ritual is even more complex. This period coincides with the three-year rhythm of the slash-and-burn. From the next day, the fields are sown after a piglet and a goat have been slaughtered at the respective field altar. The blood of the piglet is said to be cold and also to cool down the seeds. Coldness is a synonym for fertility for the Bunak people, while combining heat with death, danger, and struggle. The goat is said to carry the souls (\"melo\") of the fallen trees to the hereafter on the top of their horns. Friedberg, however, noted in 1989 after a visit to the region that this ritual was no longer carried out at the field altars. The reason was that there was simply no one to sacrifice. Instead, a common cooling-down ritual of all village villagers was held at the village altar. The ritual for the souls of the trees was omitted, possibly because there was simply no more trees in the fields due to the short frequency of the slash-and-burns.\n\nSeeds are being sown on the fields after it is directly slash-and-burned without being worked on. The digging-stick (nut) has an eight to ten centimeter large metal blade and it also the same tool used for weeding. Irrigated fields did not exist in Abis village, but in other parts of Lamaknen. These irrigation are prepared with the help of water buffaloes and cattle.\n\nAs long as the crops are not ripe, there are strict harvest prohibitions from \"kapitan\" and those supporting him, \"makleqat\" (meaning \"to hear to see\") are monitored. The \"kapitan\" himself is subordinate to the 'Master of the Firstfruits' (\"hohon niqat gomo\"), also known as the 'Master of the Germs, the Sandalwood and the Beeswax' (\"kosoq zobel turul wezun gomo\"). Sandalwood and beeswax were formerly important commodities whose production was under the control of the local rulers who protect the stocks. The \"Tobe\" (customary ritual leader with authority over land, forests, and water) of Atoin Meto people in Oecusse District also has a similar function as a resource manager. \"Kapitan\" and 'Master of the Firstfruits' came from the same clan, the house \"Sabaq Dato\", at the Bunak people in Abis village.\n\nMangoes and candlenut are the first to become ripe. The entire harvest of both fruits is collected on the main square of the village. The clans of the male and female chieftains are the first to get their share of the mangoes, which is also larger than that of the others. Only the female chief receives a share of the candlenut. The rest is kept by the \"kapitan\" for general use.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5738154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5738154", "title": "Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust", "text": "Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust\n\nA Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust, is a Planned Giving vehicle that entails a donor placing a major gift of cash or property into a trust. The trust then pays a fixed amount of income each year to the donor or the donor's specified beneficiary. When the donor dies, the \"remainder\" of the trust is transferred to the charity.\n\nCharitable trusts such as a CRAT require a trustee. Sometimes the charity is named as trustee, other times it is a third party such as an attorney, a bank or a financial advisor.\n"}
{"id": "52635684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52635684", "title": "Chinese bamboo weaving", "text": "Chinese bamboo weaving\n\nBamboo weaving is a form of bambooworking and a craft of China. It involves manipulating bamboo into various traditional knit and woven patterns to create both useful and decorative objects. \n\nWoven bamboo goods with an age of up to 7000 years unearthed at the Hemudu cultural ruins show that bamboo weaving has been a part of Chinese cultural history since very early periods of development. By the Warring States period, technique had substantially improved and examples of many types of bamboo wares have been found, such as boxes and bowls. During the Qin and Han dynasties these techniques were applied to create new types of bamboo wares such as mats and curtains. A notable example from this period would be bamboo weaving patterns represented in bronze from a chariot found in the mausoleum of Qin Shi Huang. \n\nBy the Tang and Song dynasties, bamboo weaving had expanded beyond practical objects and into creation of toys. During the middle Ming dynasty, bamboo weaving was mostly used for boxes and storage containers. \n\nAfter the founding of the People's Republic of China, efforts have been made by the government to encourage and preserve the cultural history and skill of bamboo weaving, awarding titles to particularly accomplished masters of the craft, as well as designating some regions as recognized for their long history of practicing the art. \n\nAnji County is particularly important to the production of bamboo crafts due to both the great variety and quantity of bamboo grown, and a high concentration of history and expertise in bamboo crafts.\n\nBamboo weaving in contemporary China is mainly used for household objects, such as furniture, tea sets, curtains, and lanterns. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "69003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003", "title": "Demographics of Bhutan", "text": "Demographics of Bhutan\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Bhutan, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\nThe Royal Government of Bhutan listed the country's population as 752,700 in 2003.\n\nOne explanation for this discrepancy is that the higher CIA numbers ultimately trace back to an inflated population number the Bhutanese government supplied to the United Nations in the early 1970s in order to gain entry into that body (the UN reportedly had a cutoff population of one million at that time). According to this theory the CIA population experts have retained this original inflated number year after year while adjusting it each year for normal population growth.\n\nAn alternative theory is that the western and central districts of the country wish to underestimate the populations of the southern and eastern districts in order to maintain their historical dominance over those districts. This is the claim made by some Bhutanese refugee groups. Certainly the government numbers do not include people, that were living in the refugee camps in Nepal and other persons forced out of Bhutan, which total approximately 125,000, majority of whom have now resettled in the USA.\n\nThe Bhutanese numbers can be reconstructed from their 9th Five Year Plan documents, which lists the exact number of households in each gewog. If the Bhutanese refugee advocate groups are correct, a spot check of a southern gewog should show a massive under-reporting of population.\n\nThe CIA World Fact book number has since been adjusted with a note of former inconstencies, and attributes the difference to the government not including the \"first modern census of Bhutan, conducted in 2005\". It should also be noted that in the 1970s Bhutan was one of the most isolated countries in the world and nobody knew how many people lived there since no census had ever been taken.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nAge structure\n\nMedian age\n\nPopulation growth rate\n\nBirth rate\n\nDeath rate\n\nNet migration rate\n\nTotal fertility rate\n\nUrbanization\n\nSex ratio\n\nLife expectancy at birth is 70.2 years, which is an increase from 66.3 years in 2005. Women with 71.7 years lived longer than men (68.8).\n\nPrime Minister Tshering Tobgay said that the good news is life expectancy has crossed 70 years. \nBelow is a table of Bhutan vital statistics since 1950 published by the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.\n\nStructure of the population (01.07.2013) (Estimates) (Data refer to projected figures based on the Population and Housing Census 2005 (district projection)):\n\nIn 2011, there were 246 reported cases of HIV in Bhutan, representing just over 0.03% of the population. In July 2010, there were a total of 217 cases detected, however Health Ministry sources indicated actual numbers were estimated at more than 500 by UNAIDS.\n\nThrough July 2010, there had been a total of 40 deaths due to HIV/AIDS-related causes, and one suicide.\n\nAs of 2017, Bhutan has a literacy rate of 71.4 percent (up from 59.5 percent in 2005). The highest literacy rate is observed in Thimpu at 83.9 percent, followed by Trongsa (77.2 percent) and Chukha (75.1 percent), while Gasa has the lowest rate with 59.8 percent of its population being literate. \n"}
{"id": "14598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14598", "title": "Demographics of India", "text": "Demographics of India\n\nIndia is the second most populated country in the world with nearly a fifth of the world's population. According to , the population stood at .\n\nDuring 1975–2010 the population doubled to 1.2 billion. The Indian population reached the billion mark in 1998. India is projected to be the world's most populous country by 2024, surpassing the population of China. It is expected to become the first political entity in history to be home to more than 1.5 billion people by 2030, and its population is set to reach 1.7 billion by 2050. Its population growth rate is 1.13%, ranking 112th in the world in 2017.\n\nIndia has more than 50% of its population below the age of 25 and more than 65% below the age of 35. It is expected that, in 2020, the average age of an Indian will be 29 years, compared to 37 for China and 48 for Japan; and, by 2030, India's dependency ratio should be just over 0.4.\n\nIndia has more than two thousand , and every major religion is represented, as are four major families of languages (Indo-European, Dravidian, Austroasiatic and Sino-Tibetan languages) as well as two language isolates (the Nihali language spoken in parts of Maharashtra and the Burushaski language spoken in parts of Jammu and Kashmir (Kashmir).\n\nFurther complexity is lent by the great variation that occurs across this population on social parameters such as income and education. Only the continent of Africa exceeds the linguistic, genetic and cultural diversity of the nation of India.\n\nThe sex ratio is 944 females for 1000 males (2016) (940 per 1000 in 2011) This ratio has been showing an upwards trend for the last two decades after a continuous decline in the last century.\n\nThe following table lists estimates for the population of India (including what are now Pakistan and Bangladesh) from prehistory up until 1820. It includes estimates and growth rates according to five different economic historians, along with interpolated estimates and overall aggregate averages derived from their estimates.\n\nThe population grew from the South Asian Stone Age in 10,000 BC to the Maurya Empire in 200 BC at a steadily increasing growth rate, before population growth slowed down in the classical era up to 500 AD, and then became largely stagnant during the early medieval era era up to 1000 AD. The population growth rate then increased in the late medieval era (during the Delhi Sultanate) from 1000 to 1500.\n\nIndia's population growth rate under the Mughal Empire (16th–18th centuries) was higher than during any previous period in Indian history. Under the Mughal Empire, India experienced an unprecedented economic and demographic upsurge, due to Mughal agrarian reforms that intensified agricultural production, proto-industrialization that established India as the most important centre of manufacturing in international trade, and a relatively high degree of urbanisation for its time; 15% of the population lived in urban centres, higher than the percentage of the population in 19th-century British India and contemporary Europe up until the 19th century.\n\nUnder the reign of Akbar the Great (reigned 1556–1605) in 1600, the Mughal Empire's urban population was up to 17 million people, larger than the urban population in Europe. By 1700, Mughal India had an urban population of 23 million people, larger than British India's urban population of 22.3 million in 1871. Nizamuddin Ahmad (1551–1621) reported that, under Akbar's reign, Mughal India had 120 large cities and 3,200 townships. A number of cities in India had a population between a quarter-million and half-million people, with larger cities including Agra (in Agra Subah) with up to 800,000 people and Dhaka (in Bengal Subah) with over 1 million people. Mughal India also had a large number of villages, with 455,698 villages by the time of Aurangzeb (reigned 1658–1707).\n\nThe total fertility rate is the number of children born per woman. It is based on fairly good data for the entire years. Sources: Our World In Data and Gapminder Foundation.\n\nLife expectancy from 1881 to 1950\n\nThe population of India under the British Raj (including what are now Pakistan and Bangladesh) according to censuses:\n\nStudies of India's population since 1881 have focused on such topics as total population, birth and death rates, growth rates, geographic distribution, literacy, the rural and urban divide, cities of a million, and the three cities with populations over eight million: Delhi, Greater Mumbai (Bombay), and Kolkata (Calcutta).\n\nMortality rates fell in the period 1920–45, primarily due to biological immunisation. Other factors included rising incomes, better living conditions, improved nutrition, a safer and cleaner environment, and better official health policies and medical care.\n\nIndia occupies 2.41% of the world's land area but supports over 18% of the world's population. At the 2001 census 72.2% of the population lived in about 638,000 villages and the remaining 27.8% lived in more than 5,100 towns and over 380 urban agglomerations.\n\nIndia's population exceeded that of the entire continent of Africa by 200 million people in 2010. However, because Africa's population growth is nearly double that of India, it is expected to surpass both China and India by 2025.\n\nThe table below summarises India's demographics (excluding the Mao-Maram, Paomata and Purul subdivisions of Senapati District of Manipur state due to cancellation of census results) according to religion at the 2011 census in per cent. The data is \"unadjusted\" (without excluding Assam and Jammu and Kashmir); the 1981 census was not conducted in Assam and the 1991 census was not conducted in Jammu and Kashmir.\n\n\nThe table below represents the infant mortality rate trends in India, based on sex, over the last 15 years. In the urban areas of India, average male infant mortality rates are slightly higher than average female infant mortality rates.\n\nSome activists believe India's 2011 census shows a serious decline in the number of girls under the age of seven – activists posit that eight million female fetuses may have been aborted between 2001 and 2011. These claims are controversial. Scientists who study human sex ratios and demographic trends suggest that birth sex ratio between 1.08 and 1.12 can be because of natural factors, such as the age of mother at baby's birth, age of father at baby's birth, number of babies per couple, economic stress, endocrinological factors, etc. The 2011 census birth sex ratio in India, of 917 girls to 1000 boys, is similar to 870–930 girls to 1000 boys birth sex ratios observed in Japanese, Chinese, Cuban, Filipino and Hawaiian ethnic groups in the United States between 1940 and 2005. They are also similar to birth sex ratios below 900 girls to 1000 boys observed in mothers of different age groups and gestation periods in the United States.\n\n41.03% of the Indians speak Hindi while the rest speak Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Maithili, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, Urdu and a variety of other languages. There are a total of 122 languages and 234 mother tongues. The 22 languages are Languages specified in the Eighth Schedule of Indian Constitution and 100 non-specified languages.\n\nThe table immediately below excludes Mao-Maram, Paomata and Purul subdivisions of Senapati District of Manipur state due to cancellation of census results.\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nStructure of the population (09.02.2011) (Census) (Includes data for the Indian-administered part of Jammu and Kashmir):\n\nPopulation pyramid 2016 (estimates)\n\nFrom the Demographic Health Survey:\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n1,166,079,217 (July 2009 est. CIA), 1,210 million (2011 census), 1,281,935,911 (July 2017 est.)\n\n72.2%; male: 381,668,992, female: 360,948,755 (2001 census)\n\n\"0–14 years:\" 27.34% (male 186,087,665/female 164,398,204)\n<br>\"15-24 years:\" 17.9% (male 121,879,786/female 107,583,437)\n<br>\"25-54 years:\" 41.08% (male 271,744,709/female 254,834,569)\n<br>\"55-64 years:\" 7.45% (male 47,846,122/female 47,632,532)\n<br>\"65+ years:\" 6.24% (male 37,837,801/female 42,091,086) (2017 est.)\n\n\n27.9 years\n\n\n1.17% (2017 est.)\n\n74% (age 7 and above, in 2011)\n<br>81.4% (total population, age 15–25, in 2006)\n\n22% (2006 est.)\n\n7.8%\n\n−0.05 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2007 est.)\n\n\"At birth:\"\n1.12 male(s)/female\n<br>\"Under 10 years:\"\n1.13 male(s)/female\n<br>\"15–24 years:\"\n1.13 male(s)/female\n<br>\"24–64 years:\"\n1.06 male(s)/female\n<br>\"65 years and over:\"\n0.9 male(s)/female\n<br>\"Total population:\"\n1.08 male(s)/female (2017 est.)\n\n\"total population:\" 68.8 years\n<br>\"male:\" 67.6 years\n<br>\"female:\" 70.1 years (2017 est.)\n\n\n2.43 (2017 est.)\n\nThe TFR (total number of children born per women) by religion in 2005–2006 was: Hindus, 2.7; Muslims, 3.1; Christians, 2.4; and Sikhs, 2.0.\n\nHindu 80.5%, Muslim 13.4%, Christian 2.3%, Sikh 1.8%, Buddhists 0.8%, Jains 0.4%, others 0.7%, unspecified 0.1% (2001 census)\n\nScheduled castes: 16.6% (2011 census);\nscheduled tribes: 8.6% (2011 census)\n\nSee Languages of India and List of Indian languages by total speakers. There are 216 languages with more than 10,000 native speakers in India. The largest of these is Hindi with some 337 million, and the second largest is Bengali with 238 million. 22 languages are recognised as official languages. In India, there are 1,652 languages and dialects in total.\n\nIndia is projected to overtake China as the world's most populous nation by 2030. India's population growth has raised concerns that it would lead to widespread unemployment and political instability. Note that these projections make assumptions about future fertility and death rates which may not turn out to be correct in the event. Fertility rates also vary from region to region, with some higher than the national average and some lower.\n\nIn millions (example: 361 = 361,000,000)\n\nSource:\nThe national Census of India does not recognise racial or ethnic groups within India, but recognises many of the tribal groups as Scheduled Castes and Tribes (see list of Scheduled Tribes in India).\n\nAccording to a 2009 study published by Reich \"et al\"., the modern Indian population is composed of two genetically divergent and heterogeneous populations which mixed in ancient times (about 1,200–3,500 BC), known as Ancestral North Indians (ANI) and Ancestral South Indians (ASI). ASI corresponds to the Dravidian-speaking population of southern India, whereas ANI corresponds to the Indo-Aryan-speaking population of northern India.\n\nFor a list of ethnic groups in the Republic of India (as well as neighbouring countries) see ethnic groups of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nY-Chromosome DNA Y-DNA represents the male lineage, The Indian Y-chromosome pool may be summarised as follows where haplogroups R-M420, H, R2, L and NOP comprise generally more than 80% of the total chromosomes.\n\nMitochondrial DNA mtDNA represents the female lineage. The Indian mitochondrial DNA is primarily made up of Haplogroup M\n\nNumerous genomic studies have been conducted in the last 15 years to seek insights into India's demographic and cultural diversity. These studies paint a complex and conflicting picture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41421221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41421221", "title": "Elderspeak", "text": "Elderspeak\n\nElderspeak is a specialized speech style used by younger adults with older adults, characterized by simpler vocabulary and sentence structure, filler words, lexical fillers, overly-endearing terms, closed-ended questions, using the collective \"we\", repetition, and speaking more slowly. Elderspeak stems from the stereotype that older people have reduced cognitive abilities, such as in language processing and production, and its use may be a result of or contribute to ageism. Although some aspects of elderspeak may be beneficial for some recipients, it is generally seen as inappropriate and a hindrance to intergenerational communication. Individuals and other care providers can use self-monitoring and formal educational programs to overcome elderspeak, and thus promote successful aging for older clients.\nCommunication accommodation theory looks at how we modify our speech for our conversation partners. People can change their speech to be more similar to their conversation partners’ speech, which is known as convergence. In other circumstances, people may change their speech to be more distinct, a process known as divergence. Furthermore, these modifications can promote fluidity of conversation and ease understanding. People tend to draw on stereotypes to infer what types of accommodations need to be made. In terms of intergenerational communication, young people tend to over-accommodate when conversing with older persons. That is, they make more adjustments than necessary. Young people tend to infer that older adults are slower at processing information and more cognitively inflexible. They make these inferences based on the perception of their conversation partner as old, rather than based on information about their conversational ability. This belief leads to more accommodations than necessary. \nRyan and colleagues (1986) assessed several strategies used by younger individuals when accommodating to older adults which include:\n\nElderspeak is used in many different contexts by young people when talking to elder adults. Research by Susan Kemper demonstrated that both service providers (volunteers) and professional caregivers alike engaged in elderspeak when interacting with the elderly. Furthermore, elderspeak is used regardless of the communicative ability of the older person. It was used when interacting with older adults who were healthy and active community members, as well as those in institutional settings. Surprisingly, caregivers used patronizing speech both when addressing adults with dementia (and reduced communication abilities), as well as those without dementia which demonstrates that age cues are more salient to speakers than mental or physical health cues, and cues about communicative ability. \nUnfortunately, Elderspeak is based on stereotypes and not actual behaviour of elders because it is used in situations where older adults are clearly functioning well. Elderspeak is actually offensive but nursing home residents are no longer offended by these speech patterns because they have claimed it as a normal habit. The use of elderspeak in more “warmth” and lower in a “superiority” dimension when the speaker was a family member and/or friend compared to an unfamiliar. Generally, young adults use an overstated version of elderspeak when addressing impaired older persons. When older adults converse with older people with cognitive impairments, they make speech accommodations to a lesser extent than young people. They speak more slowly and incorporate more pauses, however they do not use more repetition as young people do. It is possible that older speakers may not accommodate their speech as much in order to avoid seeming patronizing. Research shows that approximately 80% of communication is non verbal. Elderspeak involves communicating to the older adult in a coddling way, which includes non verbal cues and gestures. An example would be looming over a wheelchair or bed in dominancy, or a pat on the buttocks resembling parent-child touching. \n\nAlzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative condition that gradually destroys the abilities to remember, reason, and engage in meaningful social interaction. AD Caregivers report that most of their stress comes from unsuccessful attempts to communicate with their patients. In an effort to improve the communicative interaction between caregiver and patient, many clinicians advise caregivers to modify their speech when talking to the patient. “The main task for a person with Alzheimer’s is to maintain a sense of self or personhood,” Dr. Williams said. “If you know you’re losing your cognitive abilities and trying to maintain your personhood, and someone talks to you like a baby, it’s upsetting to you.” (Leland, 2008) \nCaretakers of adults with Alzheimer’s are often told to speak to their patients more slowly, although slow speech has not been proven to improve comprehension in patients with Alzheimer’s.\n\nElderspeak is also commonly used in the general community, not only in the context of health care. In the workplace elderspeak is quite prevalent. Elderly persons usually receive mistreatment from those that they trust or depend on, or who depend on them. In the workplace these people could be managerial, supervisory, and peer staff. Severe forms of elderspeak contribute to discrimination in the workplace, potentially infringing on the basic human right of that individual to a safe work environment. Elderspeak is affected by context. Community or institute, meaning that people use elderspeak towards elderly people in the community, such as in the grocery store or the coffee shop, or in an institute such as a nursing home. An element of context is the relationship between the speaker and the elderly person. People in closer relationships will be more likely to know the cognitive function of the individual, acquaintances or strangers would be less likely to make accurate judgements of this.\n\nPopular theories about elderspeak posit that it originates from both actual communication problems associated with older age and negative stereotypes about the competence of older people. \n\nThe disadvantages with elderspeak are the effect it has on older adults and how they are perceived, both by younger adults and by themselves. Older adults often find elderspeak patronizing and disrespectful. Elderspeak is based on stereotypes because of the way younger adults speak to older adults as if they are less competent, older adults find fewer opportunities to communicate effectively and may experiences declines in self-esteem, depression, assumption of dependent behaviour consistent with their stereotypes of elderly individuals. They can even become less interested in social interaction. This cycle of communication is often referred to as the “communication predicament of aging”. Adults receiving elderspeak are often judged by the speaker as being not only less competent, but also being in a worse disposition. The same study showed that when using elderspeak, the speaker was judged as having a worse disposition as well. \n\nElderspeak can in fact contribute to decreased comprehension, and can increase confusion. Early social scientists first identified elderspeak and estimated that 20% of the communication occurring in nursing homes is actually elderspeak (Caporael, 1981). Caretakers of nursing home residents must be particularly careful when using elderspeak. Although elderspeak has been shown to help older adults with dementia and Alzheimer’s in language comprehension, they are not immune to feeling disrespected when it is used. Resisting care is an ongoing problem with dementia patients, as well as violent behaviour, and residents of nursing homes are more likely to resist care when their nurse uses elderspeak. Care givers may assume that the elder prefers the nurturing of elderspeak but older adults think of it as demeaning. Older adults in both institutional settings and those receiving home care services report that as many as 40% of their caregivers use speech they perceive as demeaning, and 75% of the interactions that elderly people have are with the staff of the nursing homes.\n\nAnother problem with elderspeak is that licensed practical nurses, registered nurses, and other healthcare team professionals very seldom have training and expertise when it comes to communication with elders, and that elderspeak is often used incorrectly. Shorter sentences appear to have a beneficial effect on older adults’ communication, factors of elderspeak such as slow speech and exaggerated pitch tend to make older persons feel worse about their own competency, as well as the competency of the speaker; However, younger adults continue to use elderspeak with these characteristics. Not only does elderspeak fail to improve communication effectiveness for older adults, the messages inherent in elderspeak may unknowingly reinforce dependency and engender isolation and depression, contributing to the spiral of decline in physical, cognitive, and functional status common for elderly individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "23909654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23909654", "title": "Ethnic groups in Rwanda", "text": "Ethnic groups in Rwanda\n\nThe largest ethnic groups in Rwanda are the Hutus, which make up about 85% of Rwanda's population; the Tutsis, which are 14%; and the Twa, 1%. Starting with the Tutsi feudal monarchy rule of the Tenth century, the Hutus were a subjugated social group. It was not until Belgian colonization that the tensions between the Hutus and Tutsis became focused on race, the Belgians propagating the myth that Tutsis were the superior ethnicity. The resulting tensions would eventually foster the slaughtering of Tutsis in the Rwandan genocide. Since then, government policy has changed to recognize one main ethnicity: \"Rwandan\".\n\nIn comparison to the Hutu, the Tutsi have three times as much genetic influence from Nilo-Saharan populations (14.9% B) as the Hutu (4.3% B).\n\nModern-day genetic studies of the Y-chromosome generally indicate that the Tutsi, like the Hutu, are largely of Bantu extraction (60%E1b1a, 20% B, 4% E3). Paternal genetic influences associated with the Horn of Africa and North Africa are few (16% E1b1b), and are ascribed to much earlier inhabitants who were assimilated. However, the Tutsi have considerably more Nilo-Saharan paternal lineages (14.9% B) than the Hutu (4.3% B).\n\nTrombetta et al. (2015) found 22.2% of E1b1b in a small sample of Tutsis from Burundi, but no bearers of the haplogroup among the local Hutu and Twa populations. The subclade was of the M293 variety, which suggests that the ancestors of Tutsis in this area may have assimilated some South Cushitic pastoralists.\n\nThere are no peer-reviewed genetic studies of the Tutsi's mtDNA or maternal lineages. However, Fornarino et al. (2009) report that unpublished data indicates that one Tutsi individual from Rwanda carries the India-associated mtDNA haplogroup R7.\n\nIn general, the Tutsi appear to share a close genetic kinship with neighboring Bantu populations, particularly the Hutu. However, it is unclear whether this similarity is primarily due to extensive genetic exchanges between these communities through intermarriage or whether it ultimately stems from common origins:\n\n[...]generations of gene flow obliterated whatever clear-cut physical distinctions may have once existed between these two Bantu peoples – renowned to be height, body build, and facial features. With a spectrum of physical variation in the peoples, Belgian authorities legally mandated ethnic affiliation in the 1920s, based on economic criteria. Formal and discrete social divisions were consequently imposed upon ambiguous biological distinctions. To some extent, the permeability of these categories in the intervening decades helped to reify the biological distinctions, generating a taller elite and a shorter underclass, but with little relation to the gene pools that had existed a few centuries ago. The social categories are thus real, but there is little if any detectable genetic differentiation between Hutu and Tutsi.\n\nTishkoff et al. (2009) found their mixed Hutu and Tutsi samples from Rwanda to be predominately of Bantu origin, with minor gene flow from Afro-Asiatic communities (17.7% Afro-Asiatic genes found in the mixed Hutu/Tutsi population).\n\nWhen Europeans first explored the region around the Great Lakes of Chad that has since become Rwanda, they created an interpretation of the people found in the region as three racially distinct tribes, coexisting in a complex social order: the Tutsis, Hutus, and Twa. The Tutsis, an elite minority of about 24% of the population, were tall, slim pastoralists. The Hutu majority, about 75% of the population, were stocky, strong farmers. And the Twa were a marginalized minority of 1% of the population: a tribe of pygmies, dwelling in the forests as hunters and gatherers.\n\nAlthough these groups were distinct and stratified in relation to one another, the boundary between Tutsi and Hutu was somewhat open to social mobility. The Tutsi elite were defined by their exclusive ownership of land and cattle. Hutus, however, though disenfranchised socially and politically, could shed Hutuness, or \"kwihutura\", by accumulating wealth, and thereby rising through the social hierarchy to the status of Tutsi.\n\nA contrasting picture of human cultural diversity was recorded in the early Rwandan oral histories, ritual texts, and biographies, in which the terms Tutsi, Hutu, and Twa were quite rarely used and had meanings different from those conceived by the Europeans. In those, the term Tutsi was equivalent to the phrase \"wealthy noble\"; Hutu meant \"farmer\"; and Twa was used to refer to people skilled in hunting, use of fire, pottery-making, guarding, etc. In contrast to the European conception, rural farmers are often described as wealthy and well-connected. Kings sometimes looked down on them but still formed marriage bonds with them and are frequently described as conferring titles, land, herds, armies, servitors, and ritual functions on them.\n\nElites in pre-colonial Rwanda propagated an origin myth of the three groups to justify the hierarchical relationship of sociopolitical inequality between them in sacred, religious terms. According to this myth, Kigwa, a deity who fell from heaven, had three sons: Gatwa, Gahutu and Gatutsi. He chose an heir by giving each son the responsibility of watching over a pot of milk during the night. Gatwa drank the milk, Gahutu fell asleep and carelessly spilt his pot, and only Gatutsi kept watch, keeping his milk safe. Therefore, Kigwa appointed Gatutsi to be his successor, and Gahutu to be his brother's servant, while Gatwa was to be resigned to the status of an outsider. Gatutsi would possess cattle and power, and Gahutu would only be allowed to acquire cattle through service to Gatutsi, whereas Gatwa was condemned to the fringe of society. This myth was the basis of the hierarchical relationship that placed the Tutsi at the apex of the social pyramid: above the Hutu, who were in turn above the marginalized Twa. The prevalence of this myth became the basis of the social and political stratification of Rwanda.\n\nFrom the fifteenth century, when the Tutsi arrived in what is now Rwanda as migrant pastoralists, to the onset of colonization, Rwanda was a feudal monarchy. A Tutsi monarch ruled, distributing land and political authority through hereditary chiefs whose power was manifest in their land and cattle ownership. Most of these chiefs were Tutsis. The land was farmed under an imposed system of patronage under which Tutsi chiefs demanded manual labor in return for the rights of Hutus to occupy their land. This system left Hutus with the status of serfs. Additionally, when Rwanda conquered the peoples on its borders, their ethnic identities were cast aside and they were simply labeled “Hutu”. Therefore, “Hutu” became an identity that was not necessarily ethnic, but rather just associated with subjugation.\n\nThis social system was based on five fundamental assumptions, as reinforced through group interactions and influenced by cultural myths:\n\n\nDespite the stratification promulgated by these ideas, Rwanda was still very much a unified society. Notwithstanding association with different groups in the sociopolitical hierarchy, the inhabitants all considered themselves part of the same nation, the Banyarwanda, which means “people of Rwanda.” They spoke the same language, practiced the same cultural traditions, and worshiped the same God. However, the arrival of European colonizers would later exploit group divisions as a means of securing control. \nThe modern conception of Tutsi and Hutu as distinct ethnic groups in no way reflects the pre-colonial relationship between them. Tutsi and Hutu were simply groups occupying different places in the Rwandan social hierarchy, the division between which was exacerbated by slight differences in appearance propagated by occupation and pedigree.\n\nSome European intellectuals argue that the construction of divergent ethnic “Tutsi” and “Hutu” identities was formulated during the era of European colonization from the late 1880s to the 1950s. German colonialism did little to alter the existing stratified social system. The Germans were not interested in disrupting social affairs – their sole concern was the efficient extraction of natural resources and trade of profitable cash crops. Colonial bureaucrats relied heavily on native Tutsi chiefs to maintain order over the Hutu lower classes and collect taxes. Thus, the German affirmation of the stratified social structure was utilized by the Tutsi aristocracy as justification for minority rule over the lower-class Hutu masses. Germany’s defeat in World War I allowed Belgian forces to conquer Rwanda. Belgian involvement in the region was far more intrusive than German administration. In an era of Social Darwinism, European anthropologists claimed to identify a distinct “Hamitic race” that was superior to native “Negroid” populations. Influenced by racialized attitudes, Belgian social scientists declared that the Tutsis, who wielded political control in Rwanda, must be descendants of the Hamites, who shared a purported closer blood line to Europeans. The Belgians concluded that the Tutsis and Hutus composed two fundamentally different ethno-racial groups. Thus, the Belgians viewed the Tutsis as more civilized, superior, but most importantly, more European than the Hutus. This perspective justified placing societal control in the hands of the Tutsis at the expense of the Hutus. Moreover, this Belgian affirmation of the Hamitic theory provided a conceptual foundation for Tutsis and Hutus to start identifying themselves as different ethnic groups. The Belgians established a comprehensive race theory that was to dictate Rwandan society until independence: Tutsi racial superiority and Hutu oppression. The institutionalization of Tutsi and Hutu ethnic divergence was accomplished through administrative, political economic, and educational means.\n\nPrimarily, Belgian colonialism stressed physical and social differences. Relentless Belgian propaganda portrayed Tutsis as the more evolved “ethnic” group in appearance, intelligence, and height, while Hutus were branded as ignorant, backwards, and vile.\nTutsis naturally welcomed this ethnic schism because thinking in these racialized terms had tangible social benefits – it vindicated their minority domination over the majority Hutus. This administrative propaganda had a subconscious effect of convincing Hutus and Tutsis that they were in fact members of separate ethnic, not social groups. For Belgian colonial elites, this was a classic “divide and conquer” strategy: cleaving groups along salient social boundaries served as a mechanism in securing colonial control over indigenous groups. Initially, Belgian administrators used an expedient method of classification based on the number of cattle a person owned – anyone with ten or more cattle was considered a member of the aristocratic Tutsi class. However, the presence of wealthy Hutu was problematic. Then in 1933, the colonial administration institutionalized a more rigid ethnic classification by issuing ethnic identification cards; every Rwandan was officially branded a Tutsi, Hutu, or Twa.\n\nOne theory suggests that Belgian promotion of Tutsi political domination served as a prime catalyst of growing vethnic resentments. The Belgians dismantled Hutu kingdoms that had maintained local control in the northwest. In 1926 the Belgians abolished the local posts of “land-chief,” “cattle-chief” and “military chief,” and in doing so they stripped the Hutus of their limited local power over land. Instead, they entrenched an authoritarian Tutsi aristocracy to rule over the Hutu majorities in which Tutsis took over as provincial governors, local chieftains, and civil bureaucrats. Hutu officials were excluded from local administrative structures while Hutu chieftains were systematically denied from ruling their own people as they had done for centuries before. The establishment of Tutsi minority rule created much bitterness among the Hutu majority who felt disenfranchised and politically repressed. This political resentment fueled the development of an ethnic gulf between the Tutsis who wielded political power, and the Hutus who were locked out of power.\n\nBelgian economic policies also further increased the ethnic divide between Tutsis and Hutus. Colonial elites appropriated large land grants to Tutsis, and displaced formerly wealthy Hutu landowners. The Belgians strengthened the feudal arrangement of Rwanda’s pre-colonial past by forcing Hutus to work on lands owned by Tutsis. Moreover, Tutsis were appointed as trade officials and tax collectors, further reinforcing Tutsi economic hegemony over the Hutus. Colonial policies deepened the pre-existing class stratification: Tutsis were primarily upper-class wealthy landowners and merchants, while Hutus occupied lower-class occupations as poor farmers and laborers. These deep class differences provided a framework for mapping ethnic identities on top of them: class-hatred was a prominent tool for fueling divergent ethno-nationalist ideologies. Thus, this socioeconomic stratification was a chief driver in formulating both ethnic identities: the oppression of the Hutus by the Tutsis served as a key catalyst in forming a common Hutu identity among the exploited lower classes, while the Tutsi economic supremacy over the Hutus served as a key catalyst in shaping a singular Tutsi identity among the privileged upper classes.\n\nLastly, the education system reinforced the bifurcation of Tutsi and Hutu ethnic identity. The Roman Catholic Church, the primary educators in the country, subscribed to the differences between Hutus and Tutsis by developing separate educational systems for each. Not surprisingly, in the 1940s and 1950s, the vast majority of students were Tutsis, even though the majority of Rwandans now self-identified as Hutus.\n\nCurrent anthropologists argue that the sum totality of these colonial measures fashioned a resentful inferiority complex among the Hutus. Although the Hamitic theory was jointly utilized by the Belgians and the Tutsis to systematically oppress the Hutu, the Hutu themselves internalized the hypothesis and flipped it around as a framework for viewing the Tutsi. Hutu intellectuals re-framed the race theory as a defense mechanism: Hutu inferiority evolved into rightful supremacy in Rwanda, while Tutsi superiority evolved into an illegitimate foreignness to rule in Rwanda. Tutsis were viewed not as the rightful rulers that the Belgians claimed they were, but as foreigners from northeast Africa who invaded “rightful” Hutu territories. This Hutu reconstruction of the myth of Tutsi foreignness was disseminated and propagated as a reaction to “unjust” Tutsi rule.\n\nOther theoretical frameworks can also explain the construction of ethnic divergence between Tutsis and Hutus. First, the creation of salient ethnic identities can be seen as a better mechanism of capturing class resentment on the part of Hutus; layering an ethnic dimension over class identities was a better strategy for mobilizing the masses and legitimizing resistance against upper-class, ethnically different Tutsis. Second, a reworking of Michael Mann’s security dilemma in the Rwandan case produces the “ethnic” security dilemma: Hutus perceived that the Tutsis were forming a distinct ethnic identity, pushed by the Belgians, to legitimize political control. Whether or not this perception was true, as Mann’s classic security dilemma maintains, Hutus responded to this supposed “ethnic attack” by forming their own ethnic identity. In reaction to being labeled the superior ethnic group by the Belgians and in the face of rising Hutu ethnicity, the Tutsis actually accepted and internalized this ethnic label, promoting Tutsi ethnic identity as a defense. This ethnic security dilemma model is a feasible theoretical explanation for the construction of divergent ethnic identities.\n\nIdentifying when in historical time these social group differences became ethnic differences is hard to pinpoint. There was no one crystallization point. The long process of constructing ethnicity, however, continued and strengthened in post-colonial years.\n\nThe predominant american theory regarding this period is that as Belgium’s era of colonial dominance over Rwanda drew to a close during the 1950s, the Hutu and Tutsi, as racial identities, had been firmly institutionalized. Manipulative racial engineering by the Belgians, and the despotic practices of the Tutsi chieftains they empowered, helped drive together the disparate Rwandan sub-classes under the “Hutu” moniker. When the Belgians were to finally leave Rwanda in the early years of the 1960s, the politics of racial and ethnic division remained. And in the following decades, regimes under both Hutu ultra-nationalists and moderate conciliators would demonstrate how the labels of Hutu and Tutsi could be molded and twisted to fit political expediency.\n\nCommunist intellectuals argue that despite their systematic oppression, a class of Hutu political intelligentsia influenced by contemporary communist thought emerged, forming a stance against elite rule of the proletariat masses, which was reinterpreted as Tutsi rule over the Hutu. This Hutu counter-elite exploded onto the political scene in the late 1950s as both Belgian colonial influence and their firm support of the Tutsi minority declined. The emerging Hutu counter-elite provided a voice to the majority “Hutu” people, via a series of political proclamations and, later, sweeping electoral victories. Yet the voice that emerged was one embittered by decades of subjugation; one which championed Hutu nationalism and anti-Tutsi sentiment. The result was a “Hutu political consciousness” driven by populist and nationalistic forces, with the goal of dethroning the privileged Tutsi and driving a deeper wedge between their peoples.\n\nIn 1957, these Hutu nationalist elites made their political debut when a UN mission to the region was greeted with two declarations of independence by the Rwandan people. The first, a proclamation by the Mwami’s (king’s) high council proposed a rapid transfer of power from the Belgians to the Tutsi royal leadership. Called Mise au Point, the document emphasized the importance of ending racial tensions between white colonizers and black colonials. One month later, the Hutu political elites responded with their own declaration, the “Bahutu Manifesto”. This document called for a double liberation of the Hutu people, first from the race of white colonials, and second from the race of Hamitic oppressors, the Tutsi. The document in many ways established the future tone of the Hutu nationalist movement by identifying the “indigenous racial problem” of Rwanda as the social, political, and economic “monopoly which is held by one race, the Tutsi.” The manifesto also served as a prescient omen that future political identities in Rwanda would be defined along racial identities.\n\nAt the beginning of the Social Revolution of 1959 two years later, four major political parties emerged: two Tutsi monarchist parties, Union Nationale Rwandaise (UNAR) and Rassemblement Democratique Rwandais (RADER), and two Hutu parties, the nationalist Mouvement Democratique Rwandais / Parti du Mouvement et de L’Emancipacion Hutu (MDR-PARMEHUTU), and the moderate constitutionalists L’Association pour la Promotion Sociale de la Masse (APROSOMA). This marked the first time in Rwandan history that such stark party identification had emerged along exclusively ethnic lines. Not all parties championed segregation of the Hutu and Tutsi people, yet the divide ensured that the socio-political differentiation pioneered under colonialism would continue to flourish in independence.\n\nIn the ensuing provisional elections, the nationalist party of Grégoire Kayibanda (MDR-PARMEHUTU) rose to the fore. This victory gave PARMEHUTU an apparent mandate to initiate their program of segregation and discrimination against the Tutsi. Soon, Kayibanda would find the political cover he needed to consolidate control over Rwandan politics and excise the Tutsi from the political arena. In November and December 1963, a series of small cross border raids were carried out by expatriated Tutsi who had fled Rwanda between 1959 and 1963, during the tumultuous rise of Hutu nationalist politics. These exiles, publicly termed the \"inyenzi\", (“cockroaches”) by Kayibandi, were portrayed by the Hutu government as different from the domestic Tutsi only by the extremism of their political beliefs, and thus domestic Tutsi were often suspected of being collaborators in the raids. Building on this suspicion, PARMEHUTU overtly demonized and excised the Tutsi minority, politically and socially, in the wake of the 1963 raids. Disorganized reprisal killings against Tutsi were carried out at the local level, with minimal government intervention. Kayibandi, meanwhile, ordered the execution of almost two dozen leading moderate Tutsi political figures, effectively decapitating the domestic Tutsi opposition parties. This left the extremist Tutsi in exile as the only remaining Tutsi political force in the region, and prime targets for future demonization.\n\nBy the end of 1963, PARMEHUTU had established its political supremacy in Rwanda, with Kayibanda as president. Also established, in the public view, was the ever-present threat of external Tutsi invasion, the suspicion of which often translated to reprisals against the domestic Tutsi population. By 1964, Kayibandi had stepped in to quell the reprisal killings, but the sociopolitical position of the Tutsi minority continued to diminish. Under the ensuing decade of PARMEHUTU rule, all Tutsi were removed from public office, their enrollment in the public education system was curtailed, and they were relegated to second-class citizen status. Perhaps most importantly, the government continued, via official literature and the public education system, to characterize the Hutu/Tutsi divide as racial in nature, not ethnic. The purpose of this distinction was that, via a “racial” differentiation, Tutsi could be characterized as alien, non-indigenous, and thus not genuine Rwandan nationals; whereas ethnic differentiations could perceivably exist within a single national identity. Under Kayibanda, domestic Tutsi were viewed not as Rwandan citizens by the Hutu government, but as domestic aliens to be tolerated; participatory in civil life, yet removed from the political sphere and from its corresponding rights and protections.\n\nIn July 1973 a Tutsi massacre of Hutu elites in neighboring Burundi triggered another flare-up of domestic racial tension in Rwanda, in which domestic Tutsi were again blamed for the actions of their foreign “counterparts.” As was the case in 1963, political and physical reprisals were initiated against domestic Tutsis, beginning with the black-listing of Tutsi students from state universities, and spreading to broader society.\n\nEventually, domestic violence and disruption became so severe that Major General Juvénal Habyarimana led the army in a coup, overthrowing the nationalistic PARMEHUTU regime and establishing the second republic. The second republic, a single-party military regime under Habyarimana, sought to roll back the racializing policies of his predecessor responsible for domestic discord. The Hutu/Tutsi divide was reclassified by the government as “ethnic,” not racial, and the moratorium on Tutsi government participation was lifted (but Tutsi participation in government remained low). Quota systems were established for ethnic participation in education and public sector jobs; attempting to proportionally distribute participation between the Hutu and Tutsi ethnic groups. In this case, however, participation for the historically better educated Tutsi remained inflated. In his stated quest to redress historical wrongs, Habyarimana committed the government to a policy of “reconciliation.” However, a reclassification of the Hutu/Tutsi differentiation from racial to ethnic was not equivalent to a repudiation of the differentiation itself, and discrimination was still prevalent in society and policy. Although the “Tutsi” were defined by the state as an ethnic minority, they were denied recognition as a protected minority and remained conspicuously absent from elected offices. \nSome vestiges of the old regime remained codified as well, such as the law that Hutu military officials were not allowed to marry Tutsi women. As well, Habyarimana assured the Hutu majority that a Hutu leader would always be the “leader and protector” of the republic. Thus, Juvénal Habyarimana still defined the terms of the “reconciliation” as Tutsis remained politically subservient under his regime.\n\nPerhaps most insidiously, however, was how the transition to the Habyarimana regime illustrated the ease and means by which Rwandan national regimes could redraw and manipulate the racial/ethnic divisions of their own people in order to fit their own political agendas. Despite years of relative peace following the formation of the 2nd republic, Habyarimana’s goals of reconciliation ultimately failed. Hutu/Tutsi differences remained codified in law. When Habyarimana’s government began the transition to a democratic system in the late 1980s, it was perhaps inevitable that divisions would manifest once again along Hutu/Tutsi lines. As well, popular Hutu resentment at the disproportional representation of Tutsi in the quota system meant that friction between the groups never truly dissipated. Some political scientists credit these failures as a few of the reasons why Rwanda so quickly slipped back into political turmoil along ethnic lines in the years immediately preceding the 1993 genocide.\n\nIn 1933 Rwanda’s Belgian administration issued identity cards—a policy that would remain for over a half-a-century and one that would not create ethnicity, but instead would ensure its proof and social salience. These instruments of documentation would be key in fomenting Rwanda’s devastating genocide in 1994.\n\nDuring the early 1990s the Hutus—who comprised a significant majority of the Rwandan population—were being manipulated as political tools by President Juvénal Habyarimana’s regime. Under an imposed order to democratize, Habyarimana rallied the majority Hutus against what he depicted as their racial enemy—the Tutsis—in a measure to prevent both regional and class division from becoming politically relevant issues. Thus, this political climate ensured that national identity would be defined singularly across ethnic lines—a dangerous prelude to the ensuing genocide. The tense situation became inflamed with Habyarimana’s mysterious death in 1994. Quickly, Hutu administration implemented a policy to kill any and all Tutsi—a process believed to be simplified by identity cards.\n\nIdentity cards became the subject of paranoia as this form of identification allowed the reinvention of personal identity through illegal forging; during the genocide, “mistakes” were often made because of this flexibility in identity. In particular, because a Rwandan’s ethnic identity was solely traced through paternal lineage, there was considerable difficulty in establishing true paternity. Furthermore, inter-marriage particularly in the Southern region of the country furthered suspicion over Hutu or Tutsi paternity. Though forging was rare, the doubt over ethnic identity served as proof that unlike the rhetoric of Rwandan government, and that of the preceding Belgian colonizers, ethnicity was not primordialist in nature. Instead, ethnicity was a socially-constructed, superimposed identity that could potentially be changed, regardless of identity card issuance.\n\nThe end of the genocide resulted in the election of a Tutsi government—the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF). This shift in power provided the minority Tutsi with access to power and privilege, completely shifting social conceptions. Attempts to re-build the war-torn country focused on eclipsing identity for fear that retaliation and punishment towards the Hutus would occur. The government’s agenda thus was to reduce identity to that of just being “Rwandan”. In this post-genocide society, identity was supposedly re-conceptualized to divert the emphasis from ethnicity to a division of the population into categories of victim, victors, survivors, and perpetrators.\n\nHowever, in identifying victims and survivors, some Rwandans are left to be identified as perpetrators. This becomes increasingly problematic as all Hutus are deemed perpetrators—where their survival of the genocide seems to imply some form of complicity with the former government. Thus, in this process of rebuilding and bringing guilty parties to justice, the current government is providing dangling linkages back to the very ethnicities they wish to abolish and is risking further entrenching supposed “past” ethnic divisions.\n\nFurthermore, government policy to reduce identity to “just a Rwandan one” has only “been successful in the public sphere of government rhetoric and bureaucracy.” In fact, ethnicity still remains socially relevant. Its salience however has been transferred into the private sphere—a space that may make the divisions even more destructive. Thus, the concept of “eliminating” ethnicity is problematic in both concept and reality—as it is unreasonable to expect such a drastic change in the Rwandan perception.\n"}
{"id": "52116381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52116381", "title": "Family policy in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Family policy in the Republic of Ireland\n\nFamily support is one of the main issues that most social policies in Ireland try to address.  Family policies in Ireland are at a higher percentage rate than other liberal democracies; 2.5 percent of all policies or 1.6 percent of GDP.  The typical family unit in Ireland is the nuclear family with children at 49 percent, with families without children, 21 percent, and single mothers, 15 percent, being the next two common family types.  In Babies and Bosses, it states that \"the main Irish support for families is the universal non-taxable Child Benefit (paid for children under the age 16 or 16–19 and in full time education), which trebled in value between 1997 and 2002.  The Irish in-work benefit, the Family Income Supplement (FIS) is paid to low-income families with dependent children, where parents work at least 19 hours per week between them, to provide financial incentives for low-skill jobless families to enter work and because of the lower hours limit ensures that it is paid to those who are more than marginally attached to the labor market\". As Millar, Coen, Bradley and Rau state in their article on parenting, work, and family policies, \"the growing number of Irish women engaged in paid work contributed significantly to economic growth and the so-called \"Celtic Tiger\" boom, from only 7.5 percent in 1971 to 48.8 percent in 2004\". They also state that because of the increase of female labor participation, most Irish women suffer from \"dual burden\", which is because family policies have lagged, leaving no support for child care services.  Even though family policies are a bigger concern in Ireland compared to other liberal democracies, the Irish female labor participation is much lower.  There is still plenty of improvements that need to be made in Irish family policies.\n"}
{"id": "54139154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54139154", "title": "Health and wealth", "text": "Health and wealth\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10492957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10492957", "title": "Honduran diaspora", "text": "Honduran diaspora\n\nSince 1975 emigration from Honduras has accelerated as economic migrants and political refugees seek a better life elsewhere. Although many Hondurans have relatives in Nicaragua, Spain, Mexico, El Salvador and Canada, the majority of Hondurans living abroad are in the United States.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau (figures taken at the 2005 census) 460,000 Hondurans live there, making them the third largest Central American community in the U.S. Members of the Honduran community live mainly in: Florida-88,000 (24,000 in Miami alone), 68,000 in Texas (27,000 in Houston and 6,000 in Dallas), 62,000 in California (25,000 in the city of Los Angeles), 51,000 in New York (36,000 in New York City), 55,000 in Louisiana (54,000 in New Orleans), 25,000 in New Jersey, 18,000 in Virginia, and 3,000 in Washington DC.\n\n2012 US State Department estimates suggested there are between 800,000 and 1 million Hondurans living in the United States, nearly 15% of the Honduran domestic population. The large uncertainty is due to the substantial number of Hondurans living illegally in the United States. The 2010 U.S. Census counted 633,401 Hondurans in the United States, up from 217,569 in 2000.\n\nThere were 100,000 Hondurans living in Spain in 2018.\n\nAccording to statistics compiled by CELADE (Investigación Migración Internacional de Latinoamérica) in 1992 there were more than 8,700 Hondurans living in El Salvador, 9,700 in Nicaragua (by 1995), 5,500 in Guatemala (by 2002), 3,000 in Costa Rica (by 2000); and 2,400 in Belize (by 1990). Additionally, according to the UN Demographic Yearbook (2000) 8,700 Hondurans live in Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "30166789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30166789", "title": "Human trafficking in Nicaragua", "text": "Human trafficking in Nicaragua\n\nNicaragua is principally a source and transit country for women and children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically forced prostitution and forced labor. Nicaraguan women and children are trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation within the country as well as in neighboring countries, most often to El Salvador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, and the United States. Trafficking victims are recruited in rural areas for work in urban centers, particularly Managua, and subsequently coerced into prostitution. Adults and children are subjected to conditions of forced labor in agriculture (especially in the production of coffee and bananas), the fishing industry (collecting shellfish), and for involuntary domestic servitude within the country and in Costa Rica. There are reports of some Nicaraguans forced to engage in drug trafficking. To a lesser extent, Nicaragua is a destination country for women and children recruited from neighboring countries for forced prostitution. Managua, Granada, Estelí, and San Juan del Sur are destinations for foreign child sex tourists from the United States, Canada, and Western Europe, and some travel agencies are reportedly complicit in promoting child sex tourism. Nicaragua is a transit country for migrants from Africa and East Asia en route to the United States; some may fall victim to human trafficking.\n\nThe Government of Nicaragua does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. Last year the government convicted two trafficking offenders and sentenced them to 12 years’ imprisonment. Despite such efforts, the government showed little overall evidence of progress in combating human trafficking, particularly in terms of providing adequate assistance and protection to victims, confronting trafficking-related complicity by government officials, and increasing public awareness about human trafficking; therefore, Nicaragua remains on Tier 2 Watch List for the second consecutive year.\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2 Watchlist\" in 2017.\n\nThe Government of Nicaragua sustained modest efforts to combat human trafficking through law enforcement activities during the reporting period. Nicaragua criminalizes all forms of human trafficking. Article 182 of the Penal Code prohibits trafficking in persons for the purposes of slavery, sexual exploitation, and adoption, prescribing penalties of 7 to 10 years’ imprisonment. A separate statute, Article 315, prohibits the submission, maintenance, or forced recruitment of another person into slavery, forced labor, servitude, or participation in an armed conflict; this offense carries penalties of five to eight years imprisonment. These prescribed punishments are sufficiently stringent and commensurate with penalties prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape.\n\nDuring the reporting period, the government investigated nine trafficking cases and initiated three prosecutions, compared with 13 investigations and 10 prosecutions initiated in 2008. The government convicted two trafficking offenders, each of whom received a sentence of 12 years’ imprisonment, which represents an increase in convictions from the previous year when no trafficking offenders were convicted. Nicaraguan authorities collaborated with the governments of neighboring countries to jointly investigate two trafficking cases over last year. Despite credible reports from non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and the local media regarding local officials’ complicity in or tolerance of human trafficking, particularly in border regions, the government did not investigate or prosecute any officials for suspected involvement in trafficking offenses. During the year, international organizations and NGOs reported a decrease in law enforcement efforts to combat trafficking, and authorities often did not take action or investigate cases, even when given specific details regarding the whereabouts of suspected traffickers.\n\nThe Nicaraguan government made inadequate efforts to protect trafficking victims during the last year, and NGOs and international organizations continued to be the principal providers of services to victims. The government provided basic shelter and services to some child trafficking victims, but such assistance was not readily accessible in all parts of the country, and the government reportedly decreased its already limited assistance to these shelters over the past year. There were no government-operated shelters for trafficking victims, though NGOs operated shelters for sex trafficking victims. Adult trafficking victims were largely unable to access any government-sponsored victim services, although the government provided limited legal, medical and psychological services to some victims.\n\nDuring the reporting period, eight Nicaraguan trafficking victims were repatriated from El Salvador and Guatemala; most victims receiving services were reported to be Nicaraguans who had been trafficked abroad. The government encouraged victims to participate in trafficking investigations and prosecutions, though most were reluctant to do so due to social stigma and fear of retribution from traffickers, as the government offers no witness protection for victims who serve as prosecution witnesses. While the rights of trafficking victims are generally upheld, some victims may not have been identified as victims of human trafficking by authorities. The government provided a temporary legal alternative to the removal of foreign victims to countries where they may face hardship or retribution. NGOs provided limited training on human trafficking to some law enforcement and immigration officials.\n\nThe Nicaraguan government's efforts to prevent trafficking remained inadequate. The government conducted no anti-trafficking outreach or education campaigns in 2009, although NGOs and international organizations conducted public awareness campaigns with limited government collaboration. The government converted a hotline formerly dedicated to human trafficking into a hotline for reporting on the general welfare of children. The government's interagency anti-trafficking committee was responsible for coordinating anti-trafficking efforts, but conducted few activities, and NGOs questioned the committee's capability and commitment to combat trafficking.\n\nGovernment partnership with NGOs on anti-trafficking activities is reported to be better at the local level. Authorities partnered with an NGO in northern Nicaraguan to raise awareness about the commercial sexual exploitation of children; however, the government made limited efforts to combat child sex tourism. The government undertook no other initiatives to reduce demand for commercial sexual acts, such as conducting national awareness raising campaigns on child prostitution, and it did not report any efforts to reduce demand for forced labor.\n"}
{"id": "30852498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30852498", "title": "Indians in Qatar", "text": "Indians in Qatar\n\nThe community of Indians in Qatar includes Indian expatriates in Qatar, as well as people born in Qatar of Indian origin. The Indian population in the country currently stands at around 850,000.\n\nMore and more Indian students in Qatar, especially Doha, are opting for distance education programmes after passing their higher secondary examinations. After clearing their Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 exams, the students are making a beeline for the various distance education programmes offered by a number of Indian universities in Qatar.\n\nAccording to media reports and Indian government figures published on February 17, 2014 more than 1000 Indians working in Qatar have died in the past two years, obtained by news wire AFP under right of information laws\nAccording to the Indian embassy in Qatar, 237 workers died in 2012 and 218 in 2013. The figures follow similar data revealed to AFP by the Nepalese embassy in Doha last month, showing 191 deaths recorded in 2013, with many of them from \"unnatural\" heart failure, compared with 169 the year before. The Indian embassy did not give details about the circumstances of the deaths.\n\nIndian schools in Qatar include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "197661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197661", "title": "International Solidarity Movement", "text": "International Solidarity Movement\n\nThe International Solidarity Movement (ISM) is a \"Palestinian-led movement\" focused on assisting the Palestinian cause in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. ISM is dedicated to the use of nonviolent protests and methods only. The organization calls on civilians from around the world to participate in acts of nonviolent protests against the Israeli military in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.\n\nIt was founded in 2001 by Ghassan Andoni, a Palestinian activist; Neta Golan, a third generation Israeli activist; Huwaida Arraf, a Palestinian-American; and George N. Rishmawi, a Palestinian activist. Adam Shapiro, an American, joined the movement shortly after its founding and is also often considered one of the founders.\nOsama Qashoo has also been described as a co-founder.\n\nAccording to the ISM's website, international volunteers who join the ISM are responsible for paying their own way and covering all their expenses in Palestine.\n\nThe organization calls on civilians from around the world to participate in acts of non-violent protests against the Israeli military in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. It has been criticised for working alongside other groups to pressure Palestinian artists to boycott the One Voice Peace Summit and for helping to undermine the Summit by creating a competing event. ISM and affiliated groups critical of the Summit say that One Voice fails to fully support Palestinian rights guaranteed under international law.\n\nThe ISM's website describes the organization as a \"Palestinian-led movement committed to resisting the Israeli occupation of Palestinian land using nonviolent, direct-action methods and principles\". It emphasizes international volunteers are not there to \"teach nonviolent resistance\" but to support resistance through nonviolent direct action, emergency mobilization and documentation.\n\nAn article in the British newspaper \"The Daily Telegraph\" called ISM \"the 'peace' group that embraces violence\" because its mission statement recognises \"armed struggle\" as the \"right\" of Palestinians. The statement in question is taken from the ISM Mission Statement:\n\nAs enshrined in international law and UN resolutions, we recognize the Palestinian right to resist Israeli violence and occupation via legitimate armed struggle. However, we believe that nonviolence can be a powerful weapon in fighting oppression and we are committed to the principles of nonviolent resistance.\n\nISM further explains on its website:\n\nThe ISM does not support or condone any acts of terrorism – which is not legitimate armed struggle. The ISM does not associate, support, or have anything to do with armed or violent resistance to the occupation. The ISM does not assist or engage in any kind of armed resistance, no matter what form it may take.<br>This right to resist occupation applies not only to the Palestinian people, but to all peoples who are faced with a military occupation. The ISM regards all people as equals with equal rights under international law. We believe that nonviolent action is a powerful weapon in fighting oppression and are committed to the principles of nonviolent resistance.\n\nDuring a CNN interview, Paula Zahn with Adam Shapiro and Huwaida Arraf asked about an article they had co-authored which stated: \"Palestinian resistance must take on a variety of characteristics, both violent and nonviolent. But most importantly, it must develop a strategy involving both aspects. Nonviolent resistance is no less noble than carrying out a suicide operation.\" She noted that \"some people could lead to the conclusion that you were promoting suicide bombing.\" Shapiro and Arraf replied:\nThe article that we wrote was actually in response to another article written by a Palestinian, who said the Palestinians could not be nonviolent. And so we were addressing within the context of the debate over whether the Palestinians could use violence or could not use nonviolence or could use nonviolence. So it was, first of all, within that context...\nThere already is violence. We’re not advocating it. It’s already there. It’s on the ground. We’re working with people and with Palestinians who want to promote nonviolence, and that was the context of the whole article.\n\nPast ISM campaigns have used the following tactics:\n\n\n\n\nISM volunteer Rachel Corrie was killed as she attempted to block an Israel Defense Forces (IDF) bulldozer conducting military operations in Rafah in the Gaza Strip on March 16, 2003. An internal IDF investigation concluded that Corrie's death was an accident but ISM eyewitnesses dispute this account, contending that the bulldozer driver deliberately struck Corrie as she was protesting in plain view. The IDF says that tapes of the event show Corrie below the driver's eye level, and also say that the noise level was too loud for Ms. Corrie to be heard. The activities of the bulldozer she was blocking are also subject to disagreement — ISM claim it was preparing to demolish the home of a Palestinian pharmacist. Other accounts backed by the film footage claim that the bulldozer was not near the house but was removing shrubbery covering a structure that could be used as an arms smuggling tunnel or to cover terrorists shooting at the IDF.\n\nGeorge Rishmawi of the ISM told the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" that: \"When Palestinians get shot by Israeli soldiers, no one is interested anymore. But if some of these foreign volunteers get shot or even killed, then the international media will sit up and take notice.\"\n\nCorrie's parents brought lawsuits in the United States and in Israel, but in both cases, they lost the suit. In Israel, in August 2012, the court said that Corrie could have avoided danger. The court ruled that Israel was not at fault for Corrie’s death, and there was neither intent nor negligence involved in her death. The judge also said that Israel's investigation was appropriate and did not contain mistakes. The judge also criticized the U.S. for failing to send a diplomatic representative to observe Corrie's autopsy.\n\nOn April 11, 2003 Israel Defense Forces(IDF) soldier Sergeant Taysir Hayb shot International Solidarity Movement(ISM) volunteer Tom Hurndall in the head. Hurndall, who had been aiding Palestinians in Gaza, died of his wound in January 2004. Hurndall was unarmed, dressed in the bright orange jacket of the ISM, and steering two Palestinian children away from an Israeli tank-mounted machine gun shooting in their direction.\n\nHayb claimed he had shot at a man in military fatigues who was firing at the soldiers with a pistol, in the no-go security zone. This was at odds with the ISM's account, confirmed by photographic evidence.\n\nSubsequently Hayb admitted fabricating his account of events. On 10 May 2004, Hayb's trial commenced on one charge of manslaughter in the death of Tom Hurndall, two counts of obstruction of justice, one count each of submitting false testimony, obtaining false testimony, and unbecoming behaviour. Hurndall's family pressed for a murder charge through the Israeli courts. In August 2005, Taysir Hayb was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to a total of eight years imprisonment, seven years for the manslaughter of Hurndall and one year for obstruction of justice.\n\nAustralian ISM volunteer Kate Edwards sustained internal injuries from a bullet in Beit Jala. She and other volunteers marched on Israeli lines. After the event, Kate Edwards was quoted as stating \"We were walking up the hill from Bethlehem when a tank came down the hill towards us. I could see a man in the tank and he was shouting at us to go back. We carried on going.\"\n\nIrish ISM volunteer and human rights activist Caoimhe Butterly was shot in the thigh by an Israeli soldier during the Battle of Jenin.\n\nOn April 5, 2003 Israeli Defense Force soldiers on a military convoy shot Brian Avery (born 1979) in the face, seriously disfiguring him, while he was volunteering for the ISM in the West Bank city of Jenin. He was wearing red reflector vests with the word \"doctor\" in English and Arabic. The IDF refused to order an investigation, saying there was no proof its soldiers had shot at anyone that day. Avery sued and in November 2008 accepted a $150,000 settlement from the Israeli government in exchange for dropping the lawsuit.\n\nOn March 13, 2009, American ISM volunteer Tristan Anderson was critically injured after being hit in the head by a tear gas canister fired by Israeli troops attempting to disperse a demonstration. Anderson was taken to a hospital in Israel, where he underwent brain surgery, and had to have a portion of his frontal lobe and fragments of shattered bone removed. ISM volunteer and Tristan's girlfriend Gabrielle Silverman (Israeli-American), who witnessed to his injury:\n\"We were at a demonstration against the wall, against the Israeli apartheid wall in the West Bank village of Ni'lin, which is about twenty-six kilometers west of Ramallah. I was very close to him when he was shot. I was only a few feet away. The demonstration had been going for several hours. It was wrapping up; it was almost over. Most people had already gone home. We were standing on some grass nearby a village mosque, and Tristan was taking pictures [when] he was shot in the head with the extended range tear gas canister.\"\nOn April 24, 2010 Bianca Zammit, a 28 year old activist from Malta, was shot in the thigh with live ammunition by IDF soldiers during a demonstration in the so-called \"buffer zone\" inside Gaza Strip. Two Palestinian demonstrators were also shot during the same demonstration in Al Maghazi Refugee Camp.\n\nOn April 14, a group of at least 200 pro-Palestinian activists were travelling on bicycles, and several buses in a silent protest. They were stopped by Israeli soldiers before entering onto Highway 90, and asked not to continue \"for their own safety\". The legality of the protesters action is unclear as some news agencies state the cyclists got permission to protest but others state no permit was given. During the ensuing hour, the activists refused and blocked an entrance to a highway, a \"scuffle\" broke out. In an interview given by one of the members he stated \"בשלב מסויים החלטנו לאתגר את החיילים ולנסות להמשיך בנסיעה\" (\"... at some point we decided to test the soldiers and continue to move\") and after a few moments they had been assaulted. In an interview for JPost \"After about half-an-hour, he said, the cyclists decided to push past the IDF, and that is when the violence began.\" Four activists sustained face and back injuries and had to be evacuated to a hospital in Jericho, West Bank. The next day, ISM posted a video showing an IDF officer hitting a Danish protester in the face with his assault rifle. The IDF officer said that he was attacked by one of the activists in the incident with a stick, breaking two fingers. The IDF said it was a \"grave incident\" and was suspending the officer and investigating the incident. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, President Shimon Peres, and IDF Chief of General Staff Lt.-Gen. Benny Gantz all condemned the incident. NGO Monitor said that ISM \"has a long record of encouraging activists to take 'direct action' that often places them in danger and in direct confrontations with the IDF.\"\n\nOn July 25, 2014, Swedish activist Fred Ekblad had a moderate injury in his head from an Israeli tank shelling Beit Hanoun hospital in the Gaza Strip.\n\nOn September 6, 2007, ISM Jenin regional committee member and \"co-founder of one of ISM's first permanent presences\" Akram Ibrahim Abu Sba’ was killed on duty by Islamic Jihad militants, while trying to \"smooth tensions between Palestinian security forces and Islamic Jihad members\", in the Palestinian city of Jenin. Akram was buried in the Jenin refugee camp graveyard.\n\nOn April 14, 2011, Italian ISM activist Vittorio Arrigoni was abducted, tortured and executed by hanging by a Salafist group in the Gaza Strip.\n\nMueller was a native of Prescott, Arizona, where she graduated from Tri-city College Prep High School. She attended Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff in 2007. She volunteered for three years with the Save Darfur Coalition. Her human rights activism included working in India and with Tibetan refugees. Her work in the Middle East included working for Palestinian rights with the International Solidarity Movement and helping African refugees in Israel with the African Refugee Development Center.\n\nMueller started working in southern Turkey in December 2012, where she was assisting Syrian refugees. On August 3, 2013, she drove to the northern Syrian city of Aleppo with a coworker/friend who was traveling to the Spanish Doctors Without Borders hospital in Aleppo to work for a day. She worked with international aid agency Support to Life. On her departure from Aleppo to return to Turkey, militants abducted her.\n\nAccording to anonymous sources of Catherine Herridge, the location of Mueller and other US hostages was known by the White House in May 2014, but a decision on a rescue mission was not made for seven weeks. By that time, the hostages had been dispersed.\n\nA media account affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) released a statement on February 6, 2015 claiming that a female American hostage held by the group was killed by one of around a dozen Jordanian airstrikes in Raqqa, Syria. The statement came just days after the release of a video showing the murder of Jordanian fighter pilot Lt. Muath al-Kaseasbeh by the militant group and the subsequent execution of Sajida al-Rishawi and other prisoners of Jordan. The statement was later translated by the SITE Intelligence Group, identifying the hostage as Mueller.\n\nOn February 6, 2015, ISIL published a photo of a damaged building, named Mueller and her home town and alleged she had been killed in a Jordanian airstrike in the building where she was left alone with no guards, but no proof of death was provided. The Pentagon agreed the building was one hit in the bombings, but disputed that Mueller, or any civilian, was inside. The site had been bombed by the coalition twice before, and was targeted again because ISIS soldiers sometimes return to bombed sites, thinking the coalition won't return, according to Pentagon spokesman John Kirby. After this, Mueller's name was released by American and other media with the family's consent.\n\nOn February 10, 2015, Mueller's family announced ISIS had confirmed her death to them in an e-mail, with three photographs of her dead body, bruised on the face and wearing a black hijab. National Security Council spokeswoman Bernadette Meehan said this message was authenticated by the intelligence community. President Barack Obama offered his condolences to Mueller's family.\n\nThe Israeli Foreign Ministry reported that two terrorists involved in the Mike's Place suicide bombing forged \"links with foreign left wing activists and members of the International Solidarity Movement (ISM).\" The MFA also says that \"ISM members take an active part in illegal and violent actions against IDF soldiers. At times, their activity in Judea, Samaria and the Gaza Strip is under the auspices of Palestinian terrorist organizations, and that sometimes, \"ISM members, who seek entry into Israel, often do so under false pretenses, via cover stories – entry for matrimonial, tourist, religious and other purposes – which they coordinate prior to arriving in Israel.\" However, ISM reports that visitors at the border who identify as ISM volunteers, almost always will be denied entry by the Israeli border control.\n\nOn March 27, 2003, Palestinian Shadi Sukiya was arrested in by the Israel Defense Forces in ISM Jenin. The Israeli government claimed that Sukiya was a senior Islamic Jihad member, and that he was aided by two ISM activists.\n\nBoth parties stated that Sukiya arrived at the ISM's office as he was being pursued through the streets of Jenin by IDF soldiers during an Israeli-imposed curfew. According to the ISM's account, he had been going door to door looking for a place to go, arrived at the building (which is also used by the Red Cross and Medecins Sans Frontieres) cold and wet, and was offered a chance to dry and warm up by an ISM volunteer.\n\nThe IDF originally suggested that two Kalashnikov assault rifles and a handgun were found on the premises, but subsequently backtracked on the allegation.\n\nIn May 2003, Adam Shapiro from ISM stated that Sukiya was not named a \"senior Islamic Jihad terrorist\" by any official Israeli military or government source, and was being held in administrative detention in Israel without any charge.\n\nThe Israeli government asserted ISM activist Susan Barclay had \"ties with Palestinian terrorist groups\". She stated she worked with representatives of Hamas and Islamic Jihad in organising a nonviolent protest.\n\nAccording to Israeli sources ISM activist maintain ties with \"Palestinian terrorists\", aiding them, disrupting IDF activities and in some instance even attacked IDF soldiers.\n\nRichard David Hupper, an ISM activist, was convicted in a USA court of illegally funding Hamas while working with the ISM. Hupper donated money which he intended to be used to aid the families of Palestinians who had been detained or killed.\n\nIsraeli judge Oded Gershon ruled about the ISM that \"In fact, the organization abuses human rights and morals discourse to blur the severity of its actions which manifested de facto as violence.\" He also ruled that ISM activists provided financial, logistic and moral aid to terrorists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33469560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33469560", "title": "Izere language", "text": "Izere language\n\nIzere is a dialect continuum of Plateau languages in Nigeria. According to Blench (2008), it is four languages, though \"Ethnologue\" does not distinguish NW and NE Izere. The Cen and Ganang varieties are spoken by only 2000 each. Cen has added Berom noun-class prefixes and consonant alternation to an Izere base.\n\nThe Izere phonetic inventory includes 29 consonants and seven vowels and distinguishes three tone levels; two additional contour tones appear only rarely, in loanwords and due to onomatopoeia.\n\nThe consonant phonemes of Izere are shown in the following table.\n\nThe vowel phonemes of Izere are shown in the following table.\n\nThere are three level (L, M & H) and two contour tonemes (LM & HL) in Izere; the latter two are found only in loanwords and onomatopoeia.\n\n"}
{"id": "15481442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15481442", "title": "Juju Music", "text": "Juju Music\n\nJuju Music is the 1982 major label debut of Nigerian jùjú band King Sunny Adé and His African Beats. It represented the first worldwide release for Adé, who was already established in his native Nigeria as its \"biggest musical draw and juju music's reigning monarch\". The album was a critical and commercial success, peaking at #111 on Billboard's \"Pop Albums\" chart. \n\n\"The New York Times\", which described the album in 1982 as \"the year's freshest dance-music album\", later credited it in 1990 with having launched the \"World Beat movement in the United States\". In its review, Allmusic indicates that the album gave Adé \"unprecedented exposure on the Western market and introduced a slew of music lovers to the sounds of Afro-pop\", concluding that it \"should not only be the first-disc choice for Ade newcomers, but for the Afro-pop curious as well.\n\nIn the early 1980s, when Island Records approached Adé about releasing his material internationally under its Mango Records imprint, the musician was already a star in his native Nigeria, with his own record label, his own nightclub to host his performances and a track record of releasing three or four albums a year. When Adé agreed, he was teamed with Martin Meissonnier, a French record producer who advised that the typical long song structures of Nigerian music would not work for Western audiences. Accordingly, Adé divided a number of his Nigerian hits for international release, a task he found unchallenging. He later explained that \"In Nigeria, we got used to non-stop recording, about 18 to 20 minutes of music. But over here, the music should be track-by-track for the radio and the dance floor. It's like making a dress. One by one, the different pieces are joined together, but you can still see the lines where they meet\".\n\nThe album \"Juju Music\" was coupled with an international tour, with Island Records ambitiously hoping to position Adé as a new Bob Marley. The tour setlist drew little from the album it was meant to support; at a three-hour show in New York City, the band played only two songs from \"Juju Music\", \"Ja Funmi\" and \"Eje Nlo Gba Ara Mi\". Island's marketing of Adé was later described by \"Tucson Weekly\" as \"a monumental juncture in the exposure and development of world beat music; perhaps the first time a major American imprint had fully endorsed an African-derived music that was not reggae\".\n\nAlthough Meissonnier altered the song structure, he did not alter Adé's style. To Westerners, Adé's music seemed eclectic, with reviewers of \"Juju Music\" commenting variously on the mingling of \"the spacey mixing techniques of Jamaican dub\" into Adé's \"Nigerian polyrhythms\", and—even more minutely—on the \"echoes of old reggae in its lean guitar riffs, salsa in its Yoruban drum patterns, country in the steel-guitar playing, dub in the music's wide-open holes, folk and calypso in its gentle singing and the Grateful Dead and jazz in its long jams\". At the time of the album's release, \"New York Times\" reviewer Robert Palmer speculated that Adé's Yoruban heritage might lead listeners in America to a sense of familiarity with Adé's music, as the Yoruban culture has far-flung influences in other cultures and musical types. Rather than catalog those represented types, Palmer described Adé's style as a \"fusion of traditional Yoruba drumming with a pop instrumentation that includes pedal steel guitar and synthesizer\".\n\nPalmer notes the songs, many of which are \"drawn from traditional proverbs\", \"espouse traditional values\". In a 2005 interview, Adé confirmed that in his musical career \"all the songs are more or less a proverb\". The artist offered as an example of this an explication of the popular anthem \"Ja Funmi\" from \"Juju Music\", an \"instant classic\" according to Afropop Worldwide which he plays at every show in spite of the vast body of work from which he might choose. Adé indicated that \"Ja Funmi\" is a common phrase meaning \"Fight for me\", adding:\n\nHe concluded with an explicit explanation of the metaphor, saying, \"You use your head to represent your God\".\n\nIn spite of the title of that song, Adé's tone is not aggressive, marking what Palmer highlights as an essential difference between most music from underdeveloped nations and that on Adé's album—listeners of the time expected such music to be \"angry and militant\", but Adé is rather \"sweet and cool\", a traditional element of Yoruban art. In his review, Palmer describes the beginning of the song \"Mo Beru Agba\" in detail, concluding that the music shifts \"textures as mercurially as an African breeze, but with three talking drums and a section of congas, bongos, and other percussion instruments continuing to lay down a densely woven fabric of propulsive rhythms\". The overall impression to \"Rolling Stone\" reviewer Chip Stern was of \"some hazy, distant dream of communal ritual and peace\".\n\nAccording to \"Rolling Stone\", both the album and the debut tours received \"universal rave reviews\". In its own review, the magazine recommended that \"Fans of the New Romantics' soul train...disembark and check it out—the view is breathtaking\". \"The New York Times\" praised the album as \"lilting, lyrical, compulsively danceable\", \"spectacularly up-to-date\" and \"difficult to resist\". It was ranked among the top ten \"Albums of the Year\" for 1982 by \"NME\". Combined, the album and tour have been credited with not only internationally popularizing World Beat, but also with opening international doors for other performers of Afropop.\n\n\"All tracks composed by King Sunny Adé.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49500599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49500599", "title": "Katara Rajput", "text": "Katara Rajput\n\nKathariya Rajput/Katariya Jat/Kataria Thakurs or simply Katara are a Rajput patrilineal clan of the Indian subcontinent. They rose to prominence from the late 8th century CE, and, until the 17th century, designated as excellent Bladesmiths and first to use wootz steel in South Asia for swords, they dominated many regions of central and northern India, especially the regions of present-day Punjab, Pakistan.\n\nThe Katara Rajput population although very scarce are found spread through much of the subcontinent, particularly in North, West and Central India. These areas include Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and Gujarat.\n"}
{"id": "18526694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18526694", "title": "Koninkrijksdag", "text": "Koninkrijksdag\n\nKoninkrijksdag (, , \nWest Frisian: \"Keninkryksdei\") is the commemoration of the signing of the Charter for the Kingdom of the Netherlands on 15 December 1954 in Aruba, Curaçao, the Netherlands, and Sint Maarten. When 15 December falls on a Sunday, the commemoration takes place on Monday 16 December. Kingdom Day is, unlike \"Koningsdag\" (), not an official national holiday, but government buildings are instructed to fly the flag of the Netherlands.\n\nThe Charter for the Kingdom of the Netherlands was signed by Queen Juliana on 15 December 1954. The charter deals with the relation between the Netherlands and the overseas territories, the Netherlands Antilles, Netherlands New Guinea and Suriname. As of 2010, the charter governs the relationships between the Netherlands, Aruba (since 1986), Curaçao and Sint Maarten (since 2010).\n\nSince 2005, the \"Koninkrijksconcert\" () is annually held on 15 December, to celebrate the relationship between Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Aruba. At the concerts, that were held in respectively Dordrecht, Amersfoort, Nijmegen, and Curaçao, musical artists from all over the kingdom have performed.\n\nIn 2008, \"Naturalisatiedag\" () in the Kingdom of the Netherlands was moved from 24 August, the day on which the Constitution of the Netherlands was signed, to 15 December, which has a symbolic meaning for all constituent countries of the kingdom. On Naturalisation Day, newly naturalized citizens officially receive their Dutch citizenship.\n"}
{"id": "186982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186982", "title": "List of Finnish monarchs and Heads of State", "text": "List of Finnish monarchs and Heads of State\n\nThis is a list of the monarchs of Finland until it became a republic in 1919; that is, the Kings of Sweden with Regents and Viceroys of the Kalmar Union, the Grand Dukes of Finland, a title used by most Swedish monarchs, up to the two-year Regent period following the independence in 1917, with a brief flirtation with a truly domestic monarchy.\n\n\"Finland as an integral part of Sweden under the King of Sweden (Ruotsin kuningas).\"\n\nSome texts suggest the Swedish rule of Finland started as early as during the Houses of Sverker and Eric (Sverker I of Sweden 1130–1156 and Eric the Saint 1156–1160). But the first historic documents suggesting rule by Swedish kings in Finland not limited to sparse crusades and conquests are dated at around 1249.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Grand Principality of Finland in the Russian Empire (1809–1917) with the Emperor of Russia as the Grand Prince of Finland (Suomen suuriruhtinas).\"\n\n\n\"During the interregnum from the fall of Nicholas II to the end of the Finnish Civil War in spring 1918, sovereignty in Finland was exercised by the Finnish Parliament and, until the October Revolution and the declaration of independence, the Russian interim government. After the civil war, regents (valtionhoitaja) were appointed by the parliament and a new king elected.\"\n\n\n\"For later heads of state after the proclamation of the republic, see List of Presidents of Finland.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51605926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51605926", "title": "List of Rajput clans of Uttar Pradesh", "text": "List of Rajput clans of Uttar Pradesh\n\nThis is a list of Rajput clans of Uttar Pradesh. A clan is a group of people united by actual or perceived kinship and descent. Even if lineage details are unknown, clan members may be organized around a founding member or apical ancestor. The kinship-based bonds may be symbolic, whereby the clan shares a \"stipulated\" common ancestor that is a symbol of the clan's unity. When this \"ancestor\" is non-human, it is referred to as a totem, which is frequently an animal.\n\nRajput (from Sanskrit \"raja-putra\", \"son of a king\") is a member of the patrilineal clans of the Indian subcontinent. They rose to prominence from the late 6th century CE, and, until the 20th century, the Rajput rulers dominated many regions of central and northern India, including the eastern regions of present-day Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53784820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53784820", "title": "List of cannabis-related lists", "text": "List of cannabis-related lists\n\nThis is a list of lists related to cannabis.\n\n"}
{"id": "48301237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48301237", "title": "List of countries by public sector", "text": "List of countries by public sector\n\nThis is a list of countries by public sector or the share of public sector employees of total employment. Information is based mainly on data from OECD and ILO. If a source has figures for more than one year, only the most recent figure is used (with notes for exceptional circumstances).\n\nIn the former Eastern Bloc countries, the public sector in 1989 accounted for between 70% to over 90% of total employment. In China a full 100% of employees were employed in the public sector by 1978, the year the Chinese economic reform was launched, after which the rates dropped to 56.4% in 1995, and to 32.8% in 2003.\n\nIn the OECD-countries, the average public sector employment rate was 21.3% in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "872231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=872231", "title": "List of hentai authors", "text": "List of hentai authors\n\nThe following are Japanese authors and illustrators who are notable for their sexually explicit or pornographic manga and novels, referred to as \"hentai\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8788180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8788180", "title": "List of professional architecture organizations", "text": "List of professional architecture organizations\n\nThis is a list of professional architecture organizations listed by country. Many of them are members of the International Union of Architects.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33599600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33599600", "title": "Mbunga language", "text": "Mbunga language\n\nMbunga is a Bantu language of Tanzania.\n"}
{"id": "49604759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49604759", "title": "Mumtaz Begum (activist)", "text": "Mumtaz Begum (activist)\n\nMumtaz Begum (born Kalyani Ray Chowdhury; May 20, 1923June 30, 1967) was a Bengali language activist from East Pakistan (later Bangladesh). She was awarded Ekushey Padak in 2012 by the Government of Bangladesh for her role in language movement.\n\nBegum was born to Mohimchandra Ray, a district judge and later a justice of Kolkata High Court and Makhanmoti Devi, a school teacher. She was a niece of litterateur Pramathanath Bishi. In 1944, she was married to Abdul Mannaf, an official of Kolkata Civil Supply Office and a student of law at Kolkata University. She passed the matriculation examination in 1938. Later she completed her bachelor's from Bethune College in 1942 and the BEd examination from University of Dhaka in 1951.\n\nDuring the Bengali Language Movement on February 21, 1952, the first procession of women was led by Begum. She was imprisoned from February 1952 until May 1953. She served as the Headmistress of Anandamoyee Girls' High School and Ahmad Bawani Girls High School, Shishu Niketan.\n"}
{"id": "9093929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9093929", "title": "Olfactory reference syndrome", "text": "Olfactory reference syndrome\n\nOlfactory reference syndrome (ORS) is a psychiatric condition in which there is a persistent false belief and preoccupation with the idea of emitting abnormal body odors which the patient thinks that are foul and offensive to other individuals.\n\nPeople with this condition often misinterpret others' behaviors, e.g. sniffing, touching nose or opening a window, as being referential to an unpleasant body odor which in reality is non-existent and can not be detected by other people.\n\nThis disorder is often accompanied by shame, embarrassment, significant distress, avoidance behavior, social phobia and social isolation.\n\nThe term \"olfactory reference syndrome\" comes from:\n\nAlthough the existence of ORS is generally accepted, there is some controversy as to whether it is a distinct condition or merely a part or manifestation of other psychiatric conditions, mainly due to the overlapping similarities. Similarly, there is controversy with regards how the disorder should be classified. As ORS has obsessive and compulsive features, some consider it as a type of obsessive compulsive spectrum disorder, while others consider it an anxiety disorder due to the strong anxiety component. It is also suggested to be a type of body dysmorphic disorder or, as it involves a single delusional belief, some suggest that ORS is a monosymptomatic hypochondriacal psychosis (hypochondriacal type of delusional disorder, see monothematic delusion).\n\nThe World Health Organization's 10th revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10) does not have a specific entry for ORS, or use the term, but in the \"persistent delusional disorders\" section, states delusions can \"express a conviction that others think that they smell.\"\n\nORS has also never been allocated a dedicated entry in any edition of the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. In the third edition (DSM-III), ORS was mentioned under \"atypical somatoform disorders\". The revised third edition (DSM-III-R) mentions ORS in the text, stating: \"convictions that the person emits a foul odor are one of the most common types of delusion disorder, somatic type.\" The fourth edition (DSM-IV), does not use the term ORS but again mentions such a condition under \"delusional disorder, somatic type\", stating \"somatic delusions can occur in several forms. Most common are the person's conviction that he or she emits a foul odor from the skin, mouth, rectum or vagina.\" In the fifth edition (DSM-5), ORS again does not appear as a distinct diagnosis, but it is mentioned in relation to taijin kyōfushō (対人恐怖症, \"disorder of fear of personal interaction\"). The variants of taijin kyōfushō (shubo-kyofu \"the phobia of a deformed body\" and jikoshu-kyofu \"fear of foul body odor\") are listed under 300.3 (F42) \"other specified obsessive compulsive and related disorders\", and is about someone's fear that his or her body, or its functions, is offensive to other people. There are four subtypes of taijin kyōfushō. 17% of these individuals suffer from \"the phobia of having foul body odor\", the subtype termed jikoshu-kyofu. Although taijin kyōfushō has been described as a culture-bound syndrome confined to east Asia (e.g. Japan and Korea), it has been suggested that the jikoshu-kyofu variant of taijin kyōfushō is closely related or identical to ORS, and that such a condition occurs in other cultures. However, some Western sources state that jikoshu-kyofu and ORS are distinguishable because of cultural differences, i.e. Western culture being primarily concerned with individual needs, and Japanese culture primarily with the needs of the many. Hence, it is claimed that ORS mainly focuses on the affected individual's embarrassment, and jikoshu-kyofu is focused on the fear of creating embarrassment in others. In this article, jikoshu-kyofu and ORS are considered as one condition.\n\nSynonyms for ORS, many historical, include bromidrosiphobia, olfactory phobic syndrome, chronic olfactory paranoid syndrome, autodysomophobia, delusions of bromosis, hallucinations of smell and olfactory delusional syndrome. By definition, the many terms which have been suggested in the dental literature to refer to subjective halitosis complaints (i.e. where a person complains of halitosis yet no odor is detectable clinically) can also be considered under the umbrella of ORS. Examples include halitophobia, non-genuine halitosis, delusional halitosis, pseudo-halitosis, imaginary halitosis, psychosomatic halitosis, and self halitosis.\n\nThe onset of ORS may be sudden, where it usually follows after a precipitating event, or gradual.\n\nThe defining feature of ORS is excessive thoughts of having offensive body odor(s) which are detectable to others. The individual may report that the odor comes from: the nose and/or mouth, i.e. halitosis (bad breath), the anus, the genitals, the skin generally, or specifically the groin, armpits or feet. The source(s) of the supposed odor may also change over time. There are also some who are unsure of the exact origin of the odor. The odor is typically reported to be continuously present. The character of the odor may be reported as similar to bodily substances, e.g. feces, flatus, urine, sweat, vomitus, semen, vaginal secretions; or alternatively it may be an unnatural, non-human or chemical odor, e.g. ammonia, detergent, rotten onions, burnt rags, candles, garbage, burning fish, medicines, old cheese. Again, the reported character of the odor complaint may change over time. Halitosis appears to be the most common manifestation of ORS, with 75% complaining of bad breath, alone or in combination with other odors. The next most common complaint was sweat (60%).\n\nAlthough all individuals with ORS believe they have an odor, in some cases the individual reports they cannot perceive the odor themselves. In the latter cases, the belief arises via misinterpretation of the behavior of others or with the rationale that a disorder of smell which prevents self detection of the odor (i.e. anosmia) exists. In the cases where the non-existent odor can be detected, this is usually considered as phantosmia (olfactory hallucination). Olfactory hallucination can be considered the result of the belief in an odor delusion, or the belief a result of the olfactory hallucination. In one review, the individual with ORS was unreservedly convinced that he or she could detect the odor themselves in 22% of cases, whilst in 19% there was occasional or intermittent detection and in 59% lack of self-detection was present.\n\nSome distinguish \"delusional\" and \"non-delusional\" forms of ORS. In the delusional type, there is complete conviction that the odor is real. In the non-delusional type, the individual is capable of some insight into the condition, and can recognize that the odor might not be real, and that their level of concern is excessive. Others argue that reported cases of ORS present a spectrum of different levels of insight. Since sometimes the core belief of ORS is not of delusional intensity, it is argued that considering the condition as a form of delusional disorder, as seems to occur in the DSM, is inappropriate. In one review, in 57% of cases the beliefs were fixed, held with complete conviction, and the individual could not be reassured that the odor was non existent. In 43% of cases the individual held the beliefs with less than complete conviction, and was able to varying degrees to consider the possibility that the odor was not existent.\n\nOther symptoms may be reported and are claimed to be related to the cause of the odor, such as malfunction of the anal sphincter, a skin disease, \"diseased womb\", stomach problems or other unknown organic disease. Excessive washing in ORS has been reported to cause the development of eczema.\n\nPeople with ORS misinterpret the behavior of others to be related to the imagined odor (thoughts of reference). In one review, ideas of reference were present in 74% of cases. Usually, these involve misinterpretations of comments, gestures and actions of other people such that it is believed that an offensive smell from the individual is being referred to. These thoughts of reference are more pronounced in social situations which the individual with ORS may find stressful, such as public transport, crowded lift, workplace, classroom, etc. Example behaviors which are misinterpreted include coughing, sneezing, turning of the head, opening a window, facial expressions, sniffing, touching nose, scratching head, gestures, moving away, avoiding the person, whistling. Commonly, when being in proximity to others who are talking among themselves, persons with ORS will be convinced that the conversation is about his or her odor. Even the actions of animals (e.g. barking of dogs) can be interpreted as referential to an odor. Persons with ORS may have trouble concentrating at a given task or in particular situations due to obsessive thoughts concerning body odor.\n\n95% of persons with ORS engage in at least one excessive hygiene, grooming or other related repetitive practice in an attempt to alleviate, mask and monitor the perceived odor. This has been described as a contrite reaction, and repetitive, counterphobic, \"safety\", ritual or compulsive behaviors. Despite these measures, the odor symptom is reported to still offend other people. Example ORS behaviors include: repetitive showering and other grooming behaviors, excessive tooth brushing, or tongue scraping (a treatment for halitosis), repeated smelling of oneself to check for any odor, over-frequent bathroom use, attempts to mask the odor, with excessive use of deodorants, perfumes, mouthwash, mint, chewing gum, scented candles, and soap; changing clothes (e.g. underwear), multiple times per day, frequent washing of clothes, wearing several layers of clothing, wrapping feet in plastic, wearing garments marketed as odor-reducing, eating special diets, dietary supplements (e.g. intended to reduce flatulence odor), repeatedly seeking reassurance from others that there is no odor, although the negative response is usually interpreted instead as politeness rather than truth, and avoidance behaviors such habitually sitting at a distance from others, minimizing movement in an attempt \"not to spread the odor\", keeping the mouth closed and avoiding talking or talking with a hand in front of the mouth.\n\nPersons with ORS tend to develop a behavior pattern of avoidance of social activities and progressive social withdrawal. They often avoid travel, dating, relationships, break off engagements and avoid family activities. Due to shame and embarrassment, they may avoid school or work, or repeatedly change jobs and move to another town. Significant developments may occur such as loss of employment, divorce, becoming housebound, psychiatric hospitalization, and suicide attempts. According to some reports, 74% of persons with ORS avoid social situations, 47% avoid work, academic or other important activities, 40% had been housebound for at least once week because of ORS, and 31.6% had experienced psychiatric hospitalization. With regards suicide, reports range from 43-68% with suicidal ideation, and 32% with a history of at least one suicide attempt. 5.6% died by suicide.\n\nPsychiatric co-morbidity in ORS is reported. Depression, which is often severe, may be a result of ORS, or may be pre-existing. Personality disorders, especially cluster C, and predominantly the avoidant type, may exist with ORS. Bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, hypochondriasis, alcohol or drug abuse and obsessive compulsive disorder may also be co-morbid with ORS.\n\nThe causes of ORS are unknown. It is thought that significant negative experiences may trigger the development of ORS. These have been considered as two types: key traumatic experiences related to smell, and life stressors present when the condition developed but which were unrelated to smell. In one review, 85% of reported cases had traumatic, smell-related experiences, and 17% of cases had stress factors unrelated to smell. Reported smell-related experiences usually revolve around family members, friends, co-workers, peers or other people making comments about an odor from the person, which causes embarrassment and shame. Examples include accusation of flatulence during a religious ceremony, or being bullied for flatulence such at school, accidental urination in class, announcements about a passenger needing to use deodorant over speaker by a driver on public transport, sinusitis which caused a bad taste in the mouth, mockery about a fish odor from a finger which had been inserted into the person's vagina in the context of a sexual assault, and revulsion about menarche and brother's sexual intimacy. It has been suggested that a proportion of such reported experiences may not have been real, but rather early symptom of ORS (i.e. referential thoughts). Examples of non smell-related stressful periods include guilt due to a romantic affair, being left by a partner, violence in school, family illness when growing up (e.g. cancer), and bullying.\n\nThe importance of a family history of mental illness or other conditions in ORS is unclear, because most reported cases have lacked this information. In some cases, there has been reported psychiatric and medical conditions in first degree relatives such as schizophrenia, psychosis, alcoholism, suicide, affective disorders, obsessive compulsive disorder, anxiety, paranoia, neurosis, sociopathy, and epilepsy. Sometimes more than one family member had a noteworthy condition.\n\nNeuroimaging has been used to investigate ORS. Hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography (HMPAO SPECT) demonstrated hypoperfusion of the frontotemporal lobe in one case. That is to say, part of the brain was receiving insufficient blood flow. In another, functional magnetic resonance imaging was carried out while the person with ORS listened to both neutral words and emotive words. Compared to an age and sex matched healthy control subject under the same conditions, the individual with ORS showed more activation areas in the brain when listening to emotionally loaded words. This difference was described as abnormal, but less pronounced as would be observed in the brain of a person with a psychotic disorder.\n\nDiagnostic criteria have been proposed for ORS:\n\n\nThe differential diagnosis for ORS may be complicated as the disorder shares features with other conditions. Consequently, ORS may be misdiagnosed as another medical or psychiatric condition and \"vice versa\".\n\nThe typical history of ORS involves a long delay while the person continues to believe there is a genuine odor. On average, a patient with ORS goes undiagnosed for about eight years. Repeated consultation with multiple different non-psychiatric medical specialists (\"doctor shopping\") in an attempt to have their non-existent body odor treated is frequently reported. Individuals with ORS may present to dermatologists, gastroentrologists, otolaryngologists, dentists, proctologists, and gynecologists. Despite the absence of any clinically detectable odor, physicians and surgeons may embark on unnecessary investigations (e.g. gastroscopy), and treatments, including surgery such as thoracic sympathectomy, tonsillectomy, etc. Such treatments generally have no long-term effect on the individual's belief in an odor symptom. If non-psychiatric clinicians refuse to carry out treatment on the basis that there is no real odor and offer to refer them to a psychologist or psychiatrist, persons with ORS typically refuse and instead seek \"a better\" doctor/dentist.\n\nConversely, some have suggested that medical conditions which cause genuine odor may sometimes be misdiagnosed as ORS. There are a great many different medical conditions which are reported to potentially cause a genuine odor, and these are usually considered according to the origin of the odor, e.g. halitosis (bad breath), bromhidrosis (body odor), etc. These conditions are excluded before a diagnosis of ORS is made. Although there are a multitude of different publications on topics like halitosis, the symptom is still poorly understood and managed in practice. It is recognized that symptoms such as halitosis can be intermittent, and therefore may not be present at the time of the consultation, leading to misdiagnosis. Individuals with genuine odor symptoms may present with similar mindset and behavior to persons with ORS. For example, one otolaryngologist researcher noted \"behavioral problems such as continuous occupation with oral hygiene issues, obsessive use of cosmetic breath freshening products such as mouthwashes, candies, chewing gums, and sprays, avoiding close contact with other people, and turning the head away during conversation\" as part of what was termed \"skunk syndrome\" in patients with genuine halitosis secondary to chronic tonsillitis. Another author, writing about halitosis, noted that there are generally three types of persons that complain of halitosis: those with above average odor, those with average or near-average odor who are oversensitive, and those with below average or no odor who believe they have offensive breath. Therefore, in persons with genuine odor complaints, the distress and concern may typically be out of proportion to the reality of the problem. Genuine halitosis has been described as a social barrier between the individual and friends, relatives, partners and colleagues, and may negatively alter self-esteem and quality of life. Similar psychosocial problems are reported in other conditions which cause genuine odor symptoms. In the literature on halitosis, emphasis is frequently placed on multiple consultations to reduce the risk of misdiagnosis, and also asking the individual to have a reliable confidant accompany them to the consultation who can confirm the reality of the reported symptom. ORS patients are unable to provide such confidants as they have no objective odor.\n\nVarious organic diseases may cause parosmias (distortion of the sense of smell). Also, since smell and taste are intimately linked senses, disorders of gustation (e.g. dysgeusia- taste dysfunction) can present as a complaint related to smell, and \"vice versa\". These conditions, collectively termed chemosensory dysfunctions, are many and varied, and they may trigger a person to complain of an odor than is not present, however the diagnostic criteria for ORS require the exclusion of any such causes. They include pathology of the right hemisphere of the brain, substance abuse, arteriovenous malformations in the brain, and temporal lobe epilepsy.\n\nSocial anxiety disorder (SAD) and ORS have some demographic and clinical similarities. Where the social anxiety and avoidance behavior is primarily focussed on concern about body odors, ORS is a more appropriate diagnosis than avoidant personality disorder or SAD. Body dismorphic disorder (BDD) has been described as the closest diagnosis in DSM-IV to ORS as both primarily focus on bodily symptoms. The defining difference between the two is that in BDD the preoccupation is with physical appearance not body odors. Similarly, where obsessive behaviors are directly and consistently related to body odors rather than anything else, ORS is a more appropriate diagnosis than obsessive compulsive disorder, in which obsessions are different and multiple over time.\n\nORS may be misdiagnosed as schizophrenia. About 13% of schizophrenics have olfactory hallucinations. Generally, schizophrenic hallucinations are perceived as having an imposed, external origin, while in ORS they are recognized as originating from the individual. The suggested diagnostic criteria mean that the possibility of ORS is negated by a diagnosis of schizophrenia in which persistent delusions of an offensive body odor and olfactory hallucinations are contributing features for criterion A. However, some reported ORS cases were presented as co-morbid. Indeed, some have suggested that ORS may in time transform into schizophrenia, but others state there is little evidence for this. Persons with ORS have none of the other criteria to qualify for a diagnosis of schizophrenia.\n\nIt has been suggested that various special investigations may be indicated to help rule out some of the above conditions. Depending upon the case, this might include neuroimaging, thyroid and adrenal hormone tests, and analysis of body fluids (e.g. blood) with gas chromatography.\n\nThere is no agreed treatment protocol. In most reported cases of ORS the attempted treatment was antidepressants, followed by antipsychotics and various psychotherapies. Little data are available regarding the efficacy of these treatments in ORS, but some suggest that psychotherapy yields the highest rate of response to treatment, and that antidepressants are more efficacious than antipsychotics (response rates 78%, 55% and 33% respectively). According to one review, 43% of cases which showed overall improvement required more than one treatment approach, and in only 31% did the first administered treatment lead to some improvement.\n\nPharmacotherapies that have been used for ORS include antidepressants, (e.g. selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors), antipsychotics, (e.g. blonanserin, lithium, chlorpromazine), and benzodiazepines. The most common treatment used for ORS is SSRIs. Specific antidepressants that have been used include clomipramine.\n\nPsychotherapies that have been used for ORS include cognitive behavioral therapy, eye movement desensitization and reprocessing.\n\nWhen untreated, the prognosis for ORS is generally poor. It is chronic, lasting many years or even decades with worsening of symptoms rather than spontaneous remission. Transformation to another psychiatric condition is unlikely, although very rarely what appears to be ORS may later manifest into schizophrenia, psychosis, mania, or major depressive disorder. The most significant risk is suicide.\n\nWhen treated, the prognosis is better. In one review, the proportion of treated ORS cases which reported various outcomes were assessed. On average, the patients were followed for 21 months (range: two weeks to ten years). With treatment, 30% recovered (i.e. no longer experienced ORS odor beliefs and thoughts of reference), 37% improved and in 33% there was a deterioration in the condition (including suicide) or no change from the pre-treatment status.\n\nCases have been reported from many different countries around the world. It is difficult to estimate the prevalence of ORS in the general population because data are limited and unreliable, and due to the delusional nature of the condition and the characteristic secrecy and shame.\n\nFor unknown reasons, males appear to be affected twice as commonly as females. High proportions of ORS patients are unemployed, single, and not socially active. The average age reported is around 20–21 years, with almost 60% of cases occurring in subjects under 20 in one report, although another review reported an older average age for both males (29) and females (40).\n\nThe term \"olfactory reference syndrome\" was first proposed in 1971 by William Pryse-Phillips. Prior to this, published descriptions of what is now thought to be ORS appear from the late 1800s, with the first being Potts 1891. Often the condition was incorrectly described as other conditions, e.g. schizophrenia.\n\nIn modern times, commercial advertising pressures have altered the public's attitude towards problems such as halitosis, which have taken on greater negative psychosocial sequelae as a result. For example, in the United States, a poll reported that 55–75 million citizens consider bad breath a \"principal concern\" during social encounters.\n\n"}
{"id": "24546209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24546209", "title": "Padamangalam Nair", "text": "Padamangalam Nair\n\nPadamangalam Nair is one of the subcastes belonging to the Nair community in Kerala, India. They were migrants from Tamil Nadu who were embraced into the Nair community. They are confined to a few localities in Travancore.\n"}
{"id": "18216132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18216132", "title": "Prostitution in Armenia", "text": "Prostitution in Armenia\n\nProstitution in Armenia is illegal under administrative law (Article 179.1). Related activities such as running a brothel and pimping are prohibited by the Criminal Code, although there are known to be brothels in the capital, Yerevan, and in Gyumri. According to UNESCO, since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, prostitution in the country has grown. There are about 5,600 women involved in prostitution in Armenia,roughly 1,500 of them are in Yerevan. However, official police figures are far lower, for example 240 in 2012. Police and other safety forces reportedly tolerate prostitution. Many women turn to prostitution due to unemployment.\n\nChild prostitution is a problem in the country, but this is denied by the authorities. Sex trafficking is also a problem.\n\nAt the start of the 20th century, prostitution in Armenia was legal and regulated. The main objective of the regulation was to control sexually transmitted infections.\n\nBrothels could be opened by women over 35 years old. The brothel could not be within 150 sazhens (320 metres) of churches, schools, and other public places. The owner must live on the premises and not engage in prostitution herself. She could take a maximum of 3/4 of the prostitutes' earnings.\n\nA former brothel in Teryan Street, Yerevan is still noticeable by its carved naked women on the facade.\n\nDuring majority of the soviet period, prostitution officially didn't exist. Prostitutes were sent to be \"re-educated\" in labour camps. It wasn't until 1987, that the Administrative Code included the prohibition of prostitution.\n\nThe head of Dermatology and Infectious Diseases Scientific-Medical Center, doctor-dermatologist Samvel Hovhannisyan, was quoted as saying in June 2015: \"The legalisation of prostitution in Armenia may cause a reduction of a rate of sexually transmitted diseases to 60%.\" The added that the \"ancient profession\" must be strictly controlled by the country.\n\nIn 2016, the \"Helsinki Citizens’ Assembly’s Vanadzor Office\" president, Artur Sakunts, called for prostitution to be legalised and regulated. He said the taxes paid by the sex workers would benefit the country, and that “Paid sex services should not be considered a punishable act; they should not be prosecuted not to be ever manageable at the hands of organized criminal groups which could make [sex workers] victims of internal trafficking.”\n\nIn the run-up to the 2017 Armenian parliamentary election, former prime minister, Hrant Bagratyan, of the Free Democrats party said prostitution should be legalised and licensed, and taxation of their services would be positive towards the state's budget.\n\nArmenia is a source and, to a lesser extent, destination country for women, and children subjected to sex trafficking. Armenian women and children are subjected to sex trafficking in the UAE and Turkey. Armenian women and children are also subjected to sex trafficking within the country. Chinese women have been subjected to sex trafficking in Armenia. Children staying in child care institutions remain highly vulnerable to trafficking. Conflict-displaced persons, including Syrian Armenians, living in Armenia are at risk of exploitation.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Armenia as a 'Tier 2' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "18192565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18192565", "title": "Prostitution in Guyana", "text": "Prostitution in Guyana\n\nProstitution in Guyana is illegal but widespread. Prostitution law is antiquated and dates from the colonial era. Law enforcement is inconsistent and sex workers report violence and abuse by the police. Many turn to prostitution for economic reasons and the lack of other job opportunities. Prostitution continues to receive greater public attention due to the high incidence of HIV/AIDS among prostitutes. Prostitution in the country is separated into three types: \"uptown\", servicing affluent clients, \"downtown\", servicing the working classes, and mining sites. UNAIDS estimate there to be 6,00 prostitutes in the country.\n\nProstitutes often rent rooms in hotels and attract clients in the hotel's bar or outside the hotel. Dancers in lap dancing and striptease establishments sometimes offer sexual services as a sideline.\n\nIn the capital, Georgetown, prostitutes sometimes visit moored freighters, with the captain's permission, to service the crews.\n\nProstitution is not specifically prohibited by Guyanese law, but \"common nuisance\" in section 356 of the Criminal Law (Offences) Act of 1893 is interpreted to include prostitution. Section 357 makes it illegal to keep or manage a \"common bawdy house\" (brothel)\n\nThe Combating Trafficking of Persons Act of 2005 prohibits all forms of trafficking and prescribes sufficiently stringent penalties ranging from three years to life imprisonment.\n\nIn 2014, the sex workers organisation \"Guyana Sex Worker Coalition\" and several NGOs called for prostitution to be legalised and regularization of sex work. The aims was to end discrimination and abuse towards sex workers and to give them full access to health services. The NGOs included \"Youth Challenge Guyana\" and the \"Society Against Sexual Orientation Discrimination\".\n\nThere is a gold mining industry in the interior of Guyana. Women, often from Maroon and Amerindian villages, come to the area to service the gold miner's sexual needs. The women work in \"kiamoos!, temporary structures of wood, zinc or tarpaulin, that consist of a series of rooms, just big enough for a bed, where the women live and entertain clients. Women from the coast also travel to the mines, usually for a two or three month period. When there is a \"shout\" (significant find), the number of prostitutes around that mine increases.\n\nThere are also bauxite and diamond mines in the country which also attract prostitutes. However, the downturn in the bauxite industry in the early 2000s, and resulting in less employment and spending power of the men, led to a large decline in the number if sex workers around these mines.\n\nThere is evidence of women being trafficked to work as prostitutes at the mines\n\nHIV is a problem in the country, however due to the efforts of the Guyanese government and international organisations, the situation is being controlled. The epidemic peaked in around 2006, and in 2016 it was estimated that 1.6% of the adult population were affected. Amongst other measures, including education about HIV, a condoms distribution programme has been initiated. Sex workers are a high risk group. The incidence of HIV amongst sex workers has fallen over the years: 47% in 1997, 27% in 2004, 16% in 2010 and 6.1% in 2016.\n\nGuyana is a source and destination country for men, women, and children subjected to sex trafficking. Women and children from Guyana, Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Suriname, and Venezuela are subjected to sex trafficking in mining communities in the interior and urban areas. While sex trafficking occurs in interior mining communities, limited government presence in the country’s interior renders the full extent of trafficking unknown. Children are particularly vulnerable to sex trafficking. Guyanese nationals are subjected to sex trafficking in Jamaica, Suriname, and other Caribbean countries. Some police officers are complicit in trafficking crimes, and corruption impedes anti-trafficking efforts.\n\nIn 2017, the United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons upgraded Guyana from a Tier 2 country to Tier 1 country following the Guyanese governments increased efforts to combat human trafficking.\n\n"}
{"id": "3313138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3313138", "title": "Prostitution in Taiwan", "text": "Prostitution in Taiwan\n\nProstitution in Taiwan was made illegal under a 1991 law. Legislation was introduced in 2011 to allow local governments in Taiwan to set up \"special zones\" where prostitution is permitted. Outside these zones prostitution is illegal. As of 2017 no \"special zones\" had been opened.\n\nDuring the period of Japanese rule (1895–1945), geisha houses and brothels were authorized to operate in certain districts of Taiwan. Later geishas evolved into \"hostesses\". As late as the 1950s, many girls who had been indentured by their parents into prostitution for financial reasons did so willingly, out of a feeling of filial piety. During World War II, the Japanese recruited or coerced women into serving as comfort women.\n\nKorean women came to work as prostitutes in Taiwan during this period.\n\nWhen the Republic of China took control in 1945, the Chinese Nationalist government initially banned most hostesses and prostitutes, labeling prostitution an immoral practice encouraged by the Japanese. At the same time, however, the Ministry of Defense maintained official brothels on outer islands to provide sexual services to the many single military men who arrived from China in 1949. In 1956, the government revived the policy of registering and licensing prostitutes under the Measures for the Administration of Taiwan Province of Prostitutes.\n\nRapid industrialization in the 1960s brought an influx of young people into the cities, giving rise to a coffee-house subculture, where female hostesses catered to young male workers. At roughly the same time, the opening of two U.S. army bases spawned bars and dance halls to cater to the American military population.\n\nGovernment concern over immorality led to increased police attention directed at intimacy in public, and sometimes in private. The sex trade became increasingly controversial; in 1974 the government stopped licensing new brothels, and in the 1980s, a campaign aimed at rescuing Taiwanese aborigine girls forced into prostitution grew into an anti-prostitution movement that successfully lobbied for outright banning of prostitution across Taiwan. The last jurisdiction to outlaw prostitution was the city of Taipei, in 1997, under mayor Chen Shui-bian. However, Chen lost the next election and his successor, Ma Ying-jeou, allowed a grace period that extended to April, 2001.\n\nSex work became illegal in Taiwan under Article 80 of the Social Order and Maintenance Act 1991, which replaced the Police Offence Law of the 1950s and criminalized the mainly female population of sex workers. Sex workers could be detained for a maximum of three days, fined up to NT$30,000 or sent to a correctional institution for a period of between 6 and 12 months.\n\nChen, who outlawed sex work in Taipei in 1997, was President from 2000 to 2008. During this time, sex workers were prosecuted and advocates like Josephine Ho also faced discrimination from conservative groups.\n\nAfter a long public debate,\nCheng Li-wun introduced a Bill in April, 2009, to decriminalize sex work. \nIn June, 2009, in response to sex workers’ demands and academic research, and citing a commitment to bring Taiwan's legislation into harmony with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Ma Ying-jeou administration announced that prostitution was to be decriminalized, according to Jiang Yi-huah, minister of the Research, Development and Evaluation Commission.\n\nAnnouncing that Article 80 would be abolished, on the grounds of treating prostitution as a matter of human rights, the government concluded that punishing sexual transactions only forced them underground, leaving sex workers open to abuse. The government stated that while sexual transactions between consenting adults should be governed by personal, educational and religious considerations, rather than by laws, the sex trade should be regulated like any other occupation. The law was also felt to be largely ineffectual. It left the question of where people could engage in prostitution up to local governments. Regulations were promised within six months, which were to be mainly the responsibility of local government. In the meantime jail terms were to be replaced by fines, and police officers would no longer be credited for the arrest of sex workers.\n\nSubsequent to this, the Constitutional Court declared the existing legislation unconstitutional, and ordered that it cease to be in effect within 2 years.\nAgain government officials stated there were plans to decriminalize sex work.\nThis was the first pronouncement by the Ministry of the Interior on the subject, but plans to allow local red-light districts were opposed by Taipei's Mayor Hau Lung-bin. \nHowever, in 2010 the government was still debating the subject.\n\nIn October, 2010, the government announced it was planning to allow small brothels to operate, while meanwhile the laws were no longer being enforced.\nIn May, 2011, the government announced that a draft bill was imminent.\n\nTaiwan's approach created renewed hope for those advocating for more liberal policies in China.\nIn Taiwan the public narrowly supported the initiative but it was opposed by some women's groups such as The Garden of Hope Foundation.\n\nProstitution in Taiwan is illegal, and no \"special zones\" where prostitution is allowed have been opened. Foreign prostitutes caught by police are charged with prostitution rather than \"illegal work by foreign national\", which implies illegality.\n\nIn 2015, Taiwan busted a global escort prostitution ring.\n\nTaiwan is a destination women subjected to sex trafficking. To a lesser extent, Taiwan is a source of women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Taiwan women and children are subjected to domestic sex trafficking, including as part of an increasing trend in which traffickers induce and take advantage of Taiwan and foreign victims’ drug addictions. Many child sex trafficking victims are from economically disadvantaged areas in Taiwan. Women from China and Southeast Asian countries are lured to Taiwan through fraudulent marriages and deceptive employment offers for purposes of sex trafficking. Taiwan traffickers are also increasingly utilizing smartphone apps and the internet to conduct their recruitment activity and to mask their identities from law enforcement.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Taiwan as a 'Tier 1' country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46885703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46885703", "title": "Rachel Rinast", "text": "Rachel Rinast\n\nRachel Miriam Marcia Free Rinast (born 2 June 1991) is a German-born Swiss footballer who plays as a defender for FC Basel of the Swiss Nationalliga A. She previously played for 1. FC Köln. She rejoined Köln after spending the 2012–13 season with SC 07 Bad Neuenahr.\n\nSince her debut at the 2015 Algarve Cup, she has been a member of the Switzerland women's national football team. She was playing in the German second division for Köln, when Swiss selectors discovered her mother was from St. Gallen and called her up. Rinast is also a singer and in 2014 provided guest vocals on \"Grau\" by German rapper DANGA.\n\n"}
{"id": "2834678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2834678", "title": "Robert D. Keppel", "text": "Robert D. Keppel\n\nRobert David Keppel (born June 15, 1944) is a retired law enforcement officer and former detective. He is also a former associate professor at the University of New Haven and Sam Houston State University. Keppel is commonly known for his contributions to the investigations of Ted Bundy and Gary Ridgway. However, he also assisted in the creation of HITS, the Homicide Investigation Tracking System following his investigations.\n\nRobert Keppel was raised in Spokane, Washington where he attended Central Valley High School. After graduating, he went on to attend Washington State University, where he competed in the high jump. Keppel was inspired by his father to pursue criminal justice, in hopes to become a police chief. He went on to receive his master's degree in police science and administration. Following graduation, Keppel worked for the King County Sheriff's department before being drafted as an Army drill sergeant and a captain in the Vietnam War.\n\nThe \"Ted Murders\" marked the beginning of Robert Keppel's career as a detective. Witnesses from Lake Sammamish State Park provided information regarding a man named \"Ted\" who had talked to two young women that were declared missing. During the investigation, Keppel narrowed down a large list of suspects until he was left with 25, including Ted Bundy. He confronted Bundy, but Bundy dismissed the conversation. Before Keppel could speak with him again, Bundy had already been arrested and fled custody.\n\nAfter moving on from the \"Ted Murders,\" Keppel decided to return to a doctorate program at University of Washington. While completing this 12-year program, he took the position as chief investigator for Washington State Attorney General's office. In this position, he investigated other crimes like the disappearance of Captain Rolf Neslund, and the death of Donna Howard.\n\nKeppel was asked to assist in the Green River Task Force for the investigation of a set of murders in Washington. By 1984, Ted Bundy began writing letters to Robert Keppel in hopes to help in the investigation of the Green River Killer. This correspondence led to interviews between the two, which resulted in Bundy confessing to his unidentified crimes days before his execution.\n\nSerial Murder: Future Implications for Police Investigations (1989) \n\nSignature Killers (with William Birnes) (1997) \n\nMurder: A Multidisciplinary Anthology of Readings (with Joseph Weis) (1999)\n\nThe Psychology of Serial Killer Investigations: The Grisly Business Unit (with William Birnes) (2003) \n\nThe Riverman: Ted Bundy and I Hunt for the Green River Killer (with William Birnes) 1995 0671867636, Revised after Ridgeway confessions (2004) \n\nOffender Profiling (2006) \n\nForensic Pattern Recognition: From Fingerprints to Tool Marks (with Katherine M. Brown and Kristen M. Welch) (2006) \n\nSerial Violence: Analysis of Modus Operandi and Signature Characteristics of Killers (with William Birnes) (2008) \n\nProfiling: Principles, Processes, Practicalities (with David V. Canter) (2010) \n\nKeppel retired as chief criminal investigator for the Washington State Attorney General's Office. He joined the faculty of the Seattle University. , Keppel was an associate professor of criminal justice at Sam Houston State University, and currently teaches there via teleconference. In 2007, Keppel joined the University of New Haven as an Associate Professor of criminal justice.\n\nKeppel is author of \"The Riverman: Ted Bundy and I Hunt for the Green River Killer\", made into a made-for-TV movie in 2004, starring Bruce Greenwood as Keppel and Cary Elwes as Bundy. He is also the author of many textbooks regarding criminal justice and related topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "25407211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25407211", "title": "Robotomy", "text": "Robotomy\n\nRobotomy is an American animated television series created by Michael Buckley and Joe Deasy. The series ran from October 25, 2010 to January 24, 2011 on Cartoon Network. The series revolves around Thrasher and Blastus, two teenage outcast robots who enter high school at their home planet Insanus. It was produced by World Leaders Entertainment in New York (in association with Cartoon Network Studios), and co-executively produced by Christy Karacas, creator of \"Superjail!\" and \"\". The series was the result of numerous failed pitches to the network by the creators. Production proved difficult for World Leaders.\n\nThrasher and Blastus are two teenage robots who live on the planet of Insanus. Their planet is inhabited by murderous robots who seek to kill one another for no apparent reason. Slightly less horrific than their peers, the duo seek to make it through high school, and navigate their lives with mixed results. Thrasher (Patton Oswalt), a tall and lanky robot, wishes to gain the affections of an attractive female robot named Maimy (Jessie Cantrell). Meanwhile, Blastus (John Gemberling), a short and rotund robot, just wants to be popular. As with Blastus, unlike most robots on Insanus, he is mostly sensitive and non-criminal, much to the disapproval of his mother. In his quest to be cool, however, he is incredibly impulsive and overconfident in his abilities. Thrasher, though calm and reserved, often falls prey to Blastus' badly-thought out plans.\n\nOther characters include various schoolmates and staff members. Weenus (Michael Sinterniklaas) is a nerdy, psychopathic robot who is even lower on the social pyramid than the protagonists. Dreadnot (Dana Snyder) is a teacher at Harry S. Apocalypse who finds joy in torturing and invoking pain into his students. Their principal, Thunderbite (also voiced by Snyder), is an oversized, skull-shaped robot who, when not causing pain, acts sweet and motherly to the students. Megawatt (also voiced by Sinterniklaas) is a spoiled rich kid who is attractive to the female robots, most of whom he blows up; to Thrasher's disdain, he is dating Maimy. Tacklebot (Roger Craig Smith), Megawatt's friend and musclehead jock, acts violent and hostile toward the protagonists.\n\nThe series was created by Michael Buckley and Joe Deasy and produced by World Leaders Entertainment in New York. It was originally created with the working title \"Horrorbots\". The network had contacted Buckley to create a series three years prior to the broadcast of \"Robotomy\". He asked for Deasy's help, and together they pitched five ideas, to which all were rejected. Six months later, a second wave of ideas proved equally unsuccessful. Reaching their third trial, also six months later, the two pinpointed the rejections on them thinking within the network's mindset as opposed to their own. Frustrated with the project, they submitted a rough premise of \"Robotomy\", which was accepted, much to their surprise. Buckley described the plot as when \"\"Superbad\" meets the Transformers meets WWE.\"\n\nAccording to crew, the style of animation required a distinct set of skills, compared to another production by World Leaders, \"The Venture Bros.\" While that series was animated by the same team that did \"\", \"Robotomy\" was done by the \"Chowder\" production team. In an interview, it was said that the style of the former team follows \"perspective, anatomy, and real-world physics in animation\", while the latter team laid its focus on \"the humor of the movement and timing, squash and stretch,\" among other principles. Co-executive producer Christy Karacas's unique art style also proved laborious for them in that it provided \"very clean polished lines\" over more organic drawings. Karacas stated that the look and feel lent itself to science fiction, robotics as a whole and rock and roll. For its fictional universe, the planet of Insanus (originally called Killglobe), the production crew thought of it in unending chaos. This made way for weaponry covering the ground, a constant state of duskiness and the scarring of the land. Karacas particularly enjoyed designing and diversifying the robots in regard to their size and shape.\n\nThe show's color has been described by Karacas as a major part of the visuals; inspirations included Paul Klee and Katsuhiro Otomo, as well as the concept of fluorescence. The team wanted to create \"a bold, fresh look\" that reflected the universe, and so they chose to be minimal with their palette to attract attention to the line work. In addition, they eschewed the use of vivid primary colors and instead chose more secondary colors. However, they took to accentuate the scenes with \"pop colors\" that mimic the glow of neon lighting, and lastly they added vertical reflections to the floors and grunge textures to the backgrounds.\n\n\"Robotomy\" premiered on October 25, 2010 on Cartoon Network, following a new episode of \"Mad\". A crew member from World Leaders established that the network was doing more to blend its Adult Swim brand with its primary youth demographic. The series was ultimately targeted for an older demographic than other series on the network, although it still had to be appropriate to the \"broad age range.\" The debut broadcast was seen by 1.7 million viewers in the United States, acquiring a 0.2 Nielsen rating for adults aged 18 to 49. The season received an average of 1.5 million viewers, also with a Nielsen rating of 0.2. After ten episodes, the series concluded on January 24, 2011, making it the shortest run of any original series on the network.\n\nRenn Brown of \"Cinematic Happenings Under Development\" noted Oswalt, a high-profile actor, as contradictory to the show's short-lived run. Will Wade of Common Sense Media gave the series a lukewarm review, finding it suitable for older teens while calling it appealing to those who struggled to gain popularity in high school. Wade called the storylines \"pretty thin\" and its focus on \"the imagery that sells the metaphor of school as a battlefield\". Aaron Simpson of \"Lineboil\" called the storylines \"irreverent\" and the chaos similar to \"Superjail!\", \"minus the dismembered bodies\". The series was eventually added to Netflix in 2013 after the service announced a deal with Warner Bros. to include programming from Cartoon Network series, among other shows.\n\n"}
{"id": "7728483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7728483", "title": "Sara Sadíqova", "text": "Sara Sadíqova\n\nSadíqova Sara Ğärif qızı (pronounced ) Sara Sadíqova; Tatar Cyrillic: Садыйкова Сара Гариф кызы; ; 1 November 1906 – 7 June 1986) was a Tatar actress, singer (soprano), and composer. Honoured Artist of Tatar ASSR (1937), People's Artist of Tatar ASSR (1977), Honoured Worker of Culture of the Russian SFSR (1984). In 1938–1948 she was a soloist of Musa Cälil Tatar Opera and Ballet Theatre. Sara performed parts in operas and musical comedies including \"Saniä\", \"Qaçqın\" (\"Runaway\"), \"Ğäliäbanu\", \"Başmağım\" (\"My Slippers\"), \"İldar\", musical dramas \"On Qandır\", \"The Employer\". She is an author both of many song and musical comedies \"Mäxäbbät cırı\" (\"The Song of Love\") (1971), and \"Kiäwlär\" (\"Sons-in-law\") (1972) in collaboration with R. Ğöbäydullin. Sara Sadíqova is a laureate of the Ğabdulla Tuqay Tatar ASSR State Prize (1990, after her death).\n\nShe was born as Bibisara Sadíqova on November 1, 1906 in Kazan, Russian Empire. She graduated from a famous school for girls and entered teacher's training college.\n\nIn 1921 Bibisara performed her first part in the musical charity performance \"Buydaq\" (\"The Bachelor\"). One of the college's teachers, Tatar composer Soltan Ğäbäşi, sent her to the Moscow Conservatory, where she studied from 1922–1928. In 1934–1938 she worked at the Tatar Opera Studio within Moscow Conservatory.\n\nIn 1930–1934 Sara Sadíqova worked in the troupe of the Tatar Academic Theater. She performed one of the first Tatar operas \"Eşçe\" (\"The Worker\") in the 1930s.\n\nIn 1942 Sara started to compose songs, creating the tango \"The Expectation\" on lyrics of A. Yerikeyev. Her favorite styles were the tango and foxtrot. She composed more than 400 popular songs as well as music for 30 plays.\n\nSara Sadíqova died on 7 June 1986 and was buried at the Memorial Yaña-Tatar Bistäse (Novotatarskoye) cemetery.\n\n\n Sara Sadíqova\n"}
{"id": "24133890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24133890", "title": "Shyrdak", "text": "Shyrdak\n\nA shyrdak (, ) or syrmak (, ) is a stitched, and often colourful felt floor-covering, usually handmade in Central Asia. Kazakhs and Kyrgyz alike traditionally make shyrdaks, but especially in Kyrgyzstan, the tradition is still alive, and many of the products are sold to tourists.\n\nIt takes the wool from approximately five sheep to make one shyrdak rug. The process is slow and labour-intensive. Traditionally shyrdak rugs have been made by women. Once collected the wool is picked clean washed, dried then dyed. The Shyrdak is usually designed in an inlaid patchwork highly contrasting colours such as red and green, yellow and black, brown and white. Once the wool is dried a brightly coloured pattern is laid on to a plain background this is then soaked with soap and water rolled up and literally pressed this process is repeated.\n\nOnce the pattern starts to hold, the rug is reversed soaked and rolled again after some hours the shyrdak rug is left to dry. Two contrasting layers of felt are the laid on top of one another and a pattern is then marked on the top layer in chalk. This is painstakingly and laboriously cut out with the felt maker frequently sharpening the knife which will blunt quickly.\n\nThis creates a stunning positive/negative style visual image usually full of symbolic motif images that represent things around them i.e. the water, goat horns, a yurt etc. Representations of sheep and shepherds are particularly common in Kazkahstan. The felt that is cut from the top layer is not wasted and is used to create another mirror image shyrdak with the reverse colours of the original shyrdak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4575801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4575801", "title": "Sizang people", "text": "Sizang people\n\nThe Siyin (Sizang) people or the Thaute people meaning someone with a stout or sturdy build. Siyin are mainly the descendants of Pu Thuantak as also known as Suantak in Tedim language and related clans, and their adopted sons and daughters. The Siyin Valley is located in the present day Chin State, Burma, founded by the descendants of the Pu Thuantak, when they moved away from their original home of Ciimnuai with other Zo (Chin) people such as the Sukte, Thado, Zou, and other related clans.\n\nZo lived collectively in the place known as Ciimnuai, for a long period of time until they experienced population explosion. Finding new settlements then became essential for their survival for cultivation, in the hope of getting sufficient food from fertile soil for each community. Consequently, they scattered throughout the mountains, dales and valleys within and surrounding the present Chin State. Due to communication difficulties and their isolation, each departed group from Ciimnuai developed a unique dialect. The Sizang language emerged the same way as Vaiphei, Teizang, Saizang, Val, Zou, Dim, Khuangsai, Hangmi/Milhiem and others, and are closely related to one another.\n\n\"Si\" means salt water; \"Zang\" means the northern side. \"Sizang\" is known as Siyin thus represents people who live at the northern part of \"the spring of salt water\". \"Sizang\" was already the name of a place to which immigrants from Ciimuai relocated. Later generations that continued to live in the same location, have adopted \"Sizang\" as their ethnic identity.\n\nThe siyin (sizang) had a proud warrior tradition that is somewhat similar to the Naga people with slight variations. The Siyin widely practiced head hunting and kept the head in the main hall of the village ( innpi ) and when a siyin die it is the duty of his/her family to dry up the body before the burial which usually take months ..\n\nBefore their conversion to Christianity, the Siyin (Sizang) were animists, worshipping nature, Doai (Devil/spirit), and Pathian (God). They worshiped unknown spirits in order to avoid being harmed. Pleasing the Devil was an essential part of their ritual performance and worship.\n\n\nThe main occupation is shifting (slash and burn) cultivation, with the exceptional keeping of livestock such as rearing cows, gayals, goats, chickens and pigs in the countryside. There are a number of people who also work in the public sector, as civil servants, for example.\n\nThe Siyin (Sizang) have a unique dialect but it is very close to the present Tedim dialect.\n\nA few examples of Siyin (Sizang) dialect, compared to Tedim(Kamhau) dialect:\nThe descendants of Pu Zahong are to be found almost every where in the northern Chin State in Burma, in Churachandpur, Chandel and Sadar hills area of Manipur State and also in Mizoram State of the Union of India.\n\nIn Mizoram we find many of Pu Zahmuaka's descendants such as the Zadeng, Palian, Thangluah, Thangur {Chonglul and Sailo }, Rivung, and Rokhum. Pu Zahmuaka is descended from Pu Boklua Suantak who is also known as Sisinga or Sizanga. Boklua's father, Ngengu (Nenu) was the founder of Lophei village in Siyin valley of Chin State. Ngengu is the eldest son of Pu Thuantak (Suantak), who himself is descended from Pu Vaiphei or Pu Zahong. The Siyin regarded Pu Thuantak as the direct progenitor of the Siyin and Vaiphei. The Siyin are also referred to as Thaute, Siyin, Thuantak etc.\n\nAnd according to Sizang elders, Pu Thuantak (Suantak) had four sons viz. Ngengu, Neihlut, Daitawng and Vanglok from whom are descended the clans of the Sizang and Vaiphei.\n\n(1) Ngengu -\n\n(i)Lamhtam- Batkai(Kiimlel and Seam Muang), Neizalh (Thatmun & Thatlang), Liimtuang (Khansiing, Mangson & Tuangthang) etc.\n\n(ii)Boklua/Sihsing - Zahmuak ( Zadeng, Palian, Thangluah, Rivung, Rokhum, Sailo (Chengkual) and Chawnglul ) and Nge Ngawn ( progenitor of the Ngawn tribe).\n\n(iii)Phiamphu -\n\n(iv) Tungnung- Ngenthang, Nitson, Daijang etc.\n\n(v) Phucil/ Phuthil/ Phuthir-\n\n(vi)Nantal/ Hangtal/ Hrangchal -Tunglut, Tungdim and Tungte ( Laiasung, Darasung etc.).\n\n(2) Neihlut -\n\n(i) Thanglet- Changtui etc.\n\n(ii)Leisel\n\n(iii)Thangsoi- Khuakuan/Baite [Paute, Meihlai, Thangthem, Phungkhol, Kholsong (Chongzang), Kholngul, Kholphut(Thangkon), Thenchuang, Thangsei, Singngul, Ngulmun, Senlhung, Langtho] and Luangte\n\n(iv)Lutngul-\n\n(v)Hansing-\n\n(vi)Saivung-\n\n(vii)Puakpawl-\n\n(3) Daitawng -\n\n(i) Nunzong- Tuakon etc.\n\n(ii)Hinnung- Hinzong, Haunam etc.\n\n(iii)Namzo- Hinnam etc.\n\n(iv)Sukzo,\n\n(vi)Zasuan, etc.\n\n(4)Vanglok -\n\n(i)Hangsawk - Tonsung, etc.\n\n(ii)Thuklai - Lunmun, Suumniang, Tuanuam, Zamang, and Zangkaai.\n\n(iii)Limkhai - Sitzom, Tunawi, Tunmang, Ngo Thua, TunSeal, etc.\n\nFrom their original homeland, Siyin valley, the Vaiphei wandered across the Tedim - Tonzang area and finally settled in Saikal area of present-day Mizoram and Churachandpur district and other districts of Manipur. At present the Vaiphei are over thirty thousand in population, outnumbering their brothers who remained in Sizang Valley. The Vaiphei and the Sizang are actually one people separated by international boundaries. They are descended from Pu Zahong (NuaiMangpa), regarded by many historians as the Chief of the legendary Chiimnuai, the Garden of Eden of the Zo people.\n\nIn literature one comes across the name Siyin because the British colonial officers employed Burmese people, who have social intercourse with the Sizang in the olden days, as interpreters and the word Sizang was corrupted by these interpreters into Siyin. Hence, the British adopted the name Siyin for the Sizang. However the term Siyin is official and Sizang is local terminology\n\n"}
{"id": "34115665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34115665", "title": "Sorath Rai Diyach", "text": "Sorath Rai Diyach\n\nSorath Rai Diyach () is one of the historical romantic tales from Sindh, Pakistan. The story also appears in Shah Jo Risalo and forms part of seven popular tragic romances from Sindh, Pakistan. The other six tales are \"Umar Marvi\", \"Sassui Punnhun\", \"Sohni Mehar\", \"Lilan Chanesar\", \"Noori Jam Tamachi\" and \"Momal Rano\" commonly known as the Seven Queens of Sindh, or the Seven heroines of Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai.\n\nSorath was the queen of King Rai Diyach of Girnar, Junagadh now in Gujarat who sacrificed herself for the sake of her love for husband. Diyach gave his head to wandering minstrel and followed him to the world of dead. Highly pleased with the songs of minstrel, Bijal, Diyach offered him to ask for anything he liked to have. As the intrigues of fate would have it, his son asked for his head. The kind and generous king gave it.\n\nNow the song resounded in Sorath's head. She bid farewell to life and to the pain of separation from him.\n\nSur Sorath (Sindhi: سر سورٺ) is one of 30 Surs(Chapters) of Shah Jo Risalo in that touching points of the well-known tale of Rai Diyach and Sorath are given. The contents of this Sur, section by section, are described below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9032768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9032768", "title": "Spanish Sign Language", "text": "Spanish Sign Language\n\nSpanish Sign Language () is a sign language used mainly by deaf people in Spain and the people who live with them. Although there are not many reliable statistics, it is estimated that there are over 100,000 speakers, 20-30% of whom use it as a second language.\n\nFrom a strictly linguistic point of view, Spanish Sign Language refers to a sign language variety employed in an extensive central-interior area of the Iberian Peninsula, having Madrid as a cultural and linguistic epicenter, with other varieties used in regions such as Asturias, Aragon, Murcia, parts of western Andalusia and near the Province of Burgos.\n\nMutual intelligibility with the rest of the sign languages used in Spain, including Portuguese Sign Language, is generally high due to a highly shared lexicon. However, Catalan Sign Language, Valencian Sign Language as well as the Spanish Sign Language dialects used in eastern Andalusia, Canary Islands, Galicia and Basque Country are the most distinctive lexically (between 10 and 30% difference in the use of nouns, depending on the case). Only the Catalan and Valencian Sign Languages share less than 75% of their vocabulary with the rest of the Spanish dialects, which makes them particularly marked, distinct dialects or even languages separate from Spanish Sign Language, depending on the methods used to determine language versus dialect. Some linguists consider both these and the Spanish Sign language three variants of a polymorphic sign language.\n\nSpanish sign language using an avatar has been produced using software, telling passages from the Bible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25164987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25164987", "title": "St. Jude's Cathedral (Iqaluit)", "text": "St. Jude's Cathedral (Iqaluit)\n\nSt. Jude's Cathedral (formally the Cathedral of St. Simon and St. Jude) is the Anglican cathedral in Iqaluit, Nunavut, Canada. The cathedral is the seat of the Diocese of The Arctic, which covers the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and the Nunavik region of Northern Quebec. It has the greatest area of any Anglican diocese in the world. The cathedral is also the parish church for the parish of Iqaluit and holds services in English and Inuktitut. \n\nThe current building, informally referred to as the Igloo Cathedral, was opened on June 3, 2012. The unique building, in the shape of an igloo, has traditionally been a landmark and tourist attraction in Iqaluit, besides its important spiritual role for Iqalummiut (people of Iqaluit). \n\nThe original St. Jude's Cathedral had been designed by Ronald Thom in 1970 and built in 1972 by local volunteers. It was demolished in June 2006 after an arson fire in November 2005 destroyed much of the structure. It was well known for its decorations, most the product of Inuit craftsmanship; these included wall hangings, woven collection baskets, a cross made of narwhal tusks, and a carved soapstone baptismal font dedicated by Elizabeth II, Queen of Canada, during a visit to Iqaluit.\n\n"}
{"id": "13238992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13238992", "title": "Stieng people", "text": "Stieng people\n\nThe Stieng people () are an ethnic group of Vietnam and Cambodia. They speak Stieng, a language in the Bahnaric group of the Mon–Khmer languages.\n\nMost Stieng live in Bình Phước Province (81,708 in 2009) of the Southeast region of Vietnam. In Cambodia, they are grouped under the heading Khmer Loeu, referring to non-Khmer ethnic groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "995081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995081", "title": "Tharu people", "text": "Tharu people\n\nThe Tharu people are an ethnic group indigenous to the southern foothills of the Himalayas; most of the Tharu people live in the Nepal Terai. The word थारू \"thāru\" is thought to be derived from \"sthavir\" meaning follower of Theravada buddhism.Some Tharu groups also live in the Indian Terai, foremost in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.\n\nThe Tharus are recognized as an official nationality by the Government of Nepal. The Government of India recognizes the Tharu people as a scheduled tribe.\n\nThe origin of the Tharu people is not clear but surrounded by myths and oral tradition. The Rana Tharus claim to be of Rajput origin and have migrated from the Thar Desert to Nepal's Far Western Terai region. Tharu people farther east claim to be descendants of the Śākya and Koliya peoples living in Kapilvastu.\n\nTharu families worked under the system of bonded labour known as Kamaiya which existed in Nepal since the 18th century; following the Unification of Nepal when members of the ruling elite families of Terai received land grants in those region and were entitled to collect revenue from those who cultivated the land. In 1854, Jung Bahadur Rana, the then Nepalese PM, enforced the Muluki Ain (General Code) which classified both Hindus and Non-Hindus castes based on their habits of food and drink. Tharu people were categorized under \"Paani Chalne Masinya Matwali\" (touchable enslavable alcohol drinking group) together with several other alcohol drinking ethnic minorities.\n\nIn the late 1950s, the World Health Organization supported the Nepalese government in eradicating malaria in the forests of the central Terai. Following the malaria eradication program using DDT in the 1960s, a large and heterogeneous non-Tharu population from the Nepali hills, Bhutan, Sikkim and India settled in the region.\nIn the western Terai, many Tharu families lost the land, which they used to cultivate, to these immigrants and were forced as Kamaiya.\n\nWhen the first protected areas were established in Chitwan, Tharu communities were forced to relocate from their traditional lands. They were denied any right to own land and thus forced into a situation of landlessness and poverty. When the Chitwan National Park was designated, Nepalese soldiers destroyed the villages located inside the boundary of the park, burned down houses, and beat the people who tried to plough their fields. Some threatened Tharu people at gun point to leave.\n\nThe Government of Nepal outlawed the practice of bonded labour prevalent under the Kamaiya system in July 2000, which prohibits anyone from employing any person as a bonded labourer, and declared that the act of making one work as a bonded labourer is illegal.\nThough democracy has been reinstated in the country, the Tharu community has called for a more inclusive democracy as they are fearful of remaining an underprivileged group.\n\nAs of 2011, the Tharu population of Nepal was censused at 1,737,470 people, or 6.6% of the total population. In 2009, the majority of Tharu people were estimated to live in Nepal. There are several endogamous sub-groups of Tharu that are scattered over most of the Terai:\n\nSmaller numbers of Tharu people reside in the adjacent Indian districts Champaran of Bihar state; Gorakhpur, Basti and Gonda of Uttar Pradesh state; and Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand state. In 2001, Tharu people were the largest of five scheduled tribes in Uttarakhand, with a population of 256,129 accounting for 33.4% of all scheduled tribes. In the same year, they constituted 77.4% of the total tribal population of Uttar Pradesh with a population of 83,544.\n\nThe Tharu people themselves say that they are a people of the forest. In Chitwan, they have lived in the forests for hundreds of years practicing a short fallow shifting cultivation. They plant rice, mustard, corn and lentils, but also collect forest products such as wild fruits, vegetables, medicinal plants and materials to build their houses; hunt deer, rabbit and wild boar, and go fishing in the rivers and oxbow lakes.\n\nThe Tharus never went abroad for employment – a life that kept them isolated in their own localities. In this isolation they developed a unique culture free from the influence of adjacent India, or from the mountain groups of Nepal. The most striking aspects of their environment are the decorated rice containers, colorfully painted verandahs and outer walls of their homes using only available materials like clay, mud, dung and grass. Much of the rich design is rooted in devotional activities and passed on from one generation to the next, occasionally introducing contemporary elements such as a bus or an airplane.\nThe Deukheri Tharu are known for their colorful, shell and/or feather decorated basketry, including \"ram topne\" water jug covers. \n\nIn the western Terai, most Rana Tharu prefer living in \"Badaghar\" called longhouses with big families of many generations, sometimes 40-50 people. All household members pool their labor force, contribute their income, share the expenditure and use one kitchen.\n\nTharus from the mid west and far west of Nepal have been practicing the \"Badghar\" system, where a \"Badghar\" is elected chief of a village or a small group of villages for a year. The election generally takes place in the month of Magh (January / February), after celebrating the \"Maghi Festival\" and after completing major farming activities. In most cases, each household in the village which engages in farming has one voting right for electing a \"Badghar\". Thus the election is based on a count of households count rather than a headcount. The role of the \"Badghar\" is to work for the welfare of the village. The \"Badghar\" direct the villagers to repair canals or streets when needed. They also oversee and manages the cultural traditions of the villages. They have an authority of punishing those who do not follow their orders or who go against the welfare of the village. Generally the \"Badghar\" has a Chaukidar to help him. With the consent of the villagers the \"Badghar\" may appoint a\"Guruwa\" who is the medic and chief priest of the village.\n\nAs Tharus society is mainly involved in farming, irrigation is one of the most important aspects of the community. Tharus in western Nepal built canals that irrigate thousands of hectares of land. Hundreds of years ago, without using any sophisticated tools, they built hundreds of kilometers of irrigation canals in the \"Kailali\" and \"Bardiya districts\" of Nepal. An irrigation canal could be used by several villages. Its water and diversion works need to be managed fairly. For this purpose, the Badghars of different villages elect a person for the position of \"Chaudhary\" to manage a canal system. When needed, the \"Chaudhary\" orders the \"Badghars\" to send people to repair or build the canals. In most cases the Badghars and Chaudharis are unpaid leaders of the community. However, they are exempt from compulsory physical labor for the betterment of the society. As a token of respect, the community members may also help them in farming for a day free of cost.\n\nTharu communities in different parts of Nepal and India do not share the same language. Several speak various endemic Tharu languages. In western Nepal and adjacent parts of India, Tharus speak variants of Hindi, Urdu and Awadhi. In and near central Nepal, they speak a variant of Bhojpuri. In eastern Nepal, they speak a variant of Maithili. More standard versions of these dialects are widely spoken by non-Tharu neighbors in the same areas so that there are no important linguistic barriers between Tharus and their neighbors. However, there are linguistic barriers between these dialects standing in the way of communication between Tharus from different regions. They also speak Nepali language.\n\nTharus already lived in the Terai before Indo-Europeans arrived. It is unclear which language they have been speaking at that time. The only surviving pre-Indo-European language in the Terai is Kusunda, Santhali further west.\n\nTharu people of Nepal have different and special food items like Bagiya or Dhikri and ghonghi, an edible snail collected in nearby water bodies.\nDhikri is made of rice flour. The dough from the rice flour is given different shapes – many are stick-like but some are also given the shapes of birds, fish and animals. It is cooked over steam and eaten together with chutney or curry.\nThe ghonghi are left overnight so that all the gooey material inside them comes out. Their tail end is cut so that it is easier to suck out the meat from the shell. They are boiled and later cooked like curry adding spices like coriander, chilies, garlic and onions.\n\nTharu people of India are also known for their spicy and distinct food. Dhissaphara is similar to Dhikri.\n\nTraditionally, marriages were often arranged during the pregnancies of two women. If they gave birth to opposite sex babies, the two babies were supposed to be married if they grew up as friends. It was problematic if a boy or girl came of age and rejected their assigned fiancé(e). Finding a replacement was difficult because most girls and boys were already engaged. However this custom has been disappearing. Most Tharus now practice conventional arranged marriages. They also practice love marriages, inter caste marriage, marriage after courtship and eloping.\n\nThe spiritual beliefs and moral values of the Tharu people are closely linked to the natural environment. The pantheon of their gods comprises a large number of deities that live in the forest. They are asked for support before entering the forest.\n\nGenetic studies on Y-DNA of Tharu populations from two villages in Chitwan district and one village in Morang district found very high presence of Haplogroup O at 37% followed by H (26%), J (14%), R1a (9%), R2 (5%), L (2%) and C(1%).\n\nThe Tharu were famous for their ability to survive in the most malarial parts of the Terai that were deadly to outsiders. In 1902, a British observer noted: \"Plainsmen and paharis generally die if they sleep in the Terai before November 1 or after June 1.\" Others thought that the Tharu were not totally immune.\n\nContemporary medical research comparing Tharu with other ethnic groups living nearby found an incidence of malaria nearly seven times lower among Tharu. The researchers believed such a large difference pointed to genetic factors rather than behavioral or dietary differences. This was confirmed by follow-up investigation finding genes for thalassemia in nearly all Tharu studied.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8109640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8109640", "title": "Zhuz", "text": "Zhuz\n\nA zhuz (, ٴجۇز, , also translated as \"horde\" or \"hundred\") is one of the three main territorial and tribal divisions in the Kypchak Plain area that covers much of the contemporary Kazakhstan, and represents the main tribal division within the ethnic group of the Kazakhs.\n\n\nThe earliest mention of the Kazakh \"júz\" or hordes dates to the 17th century.\nVelyaminov-Zernov (1919) believed that the division arose as a result of the\ncapture of the important cities of Tashkent, Yasi, and Sayram in 1598.\n\nSome researchers argued that the \"júz\" in origin corresponded to tribal, military alliances of steppe nomads that emerged around mid-16th century after the disintegration of the Kazakh Khanate. \nYuri Zuev argued their territorial division comprises three ecological or topographic zones, the Senior \"zhuz\" of the southern and southeastern steppe being set apart from the two other zones by Lake Balkhash.\n\nAccording some researchers, Kazakhs was separated in the first civil war in the Kazakh Khanate. Tribes that recognized Buidash Khan formed Senior juz. Tribes that recognized Togim Khan formed Middle juz. Tribes that recognized Akhmed Khan formed Junior juz.\n\nAccording to Kazakh legends, the three \"júz\" were the territorial inheritances of the three sons of the mythical founder father of the Kazakhs. \nIn Kazakh language, \"júz\" means either \"union\" or \"hundred\". \n\nHistorically, the Senior \"zhuz\" (; ) inhabited the northern lands of the former Chagatai Ulus of the Mongol Empire, in the Ili River and Chu River basins, in today's South-Eastern Kazakhstan and China's Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture (northern Xinjiang). It was also called \"Üysin jüz\".\n\nThe first record of the Senior \"zhuz\" dates to 1748, due to a Tatar emissary of the Tsaritsa who had been sent to the steppe to negotiate the submission of Abul Khair Khan in 1732. According to Nikolai Aristov, the estimated population of the Senior \"zhuz\" was about 550,000 people in the second half of the 19th century. \nThe territory was conquered by the Kokand Khanate in 1820s, and by the Russian Empire during the 1850s to 1860s.\n\nKazakhstan's ruling elite, including current president Nursultan Nazarbayev, former First Secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan Dinmukhamed Konayev, as well as famous poet Jambyl Jabayev are representatives of the Senior zhuz.\nThere have been several attempts to determine the exact names and nature of top level clans throughout the 19th and early 20th centuries. However, different studies created vastly different names and population numbers for the steppe clans. Generally accepted names of the first order Senior zhuz tribes or clans are:\n\n\nThe Middle zhuz (; ), also known as \"Arǵyn júz\", occupies the eastern lands of the former Golden Horde, in central, northern and eastern Kazakhstan.\n\nSome of Kazakhstan's famous poets and intellectuals were born in the Middle zhuz territories, including Abay Qunanbayuli, Akhmet Baytursinuli, Shokan Walikhanuli and Alikhan Bokeikhanov.\n\nThe Middle zhuz consists of the following tribes:\n\nThe Junior or Lesser zhuz (; ), also known as \"Alshyn júz\", occupied the lands of the former Nogai Khanate in Western Kazakhstan. It was also called \"Alshyn júz\".\n\nThey originate from the Nogais of the Nogai Horde, which once was placed in Western Kazakhstan, but in the 16th century it was defeated by the Kazakhs and the Russians and Nogais retreated to the Western part of their khanate, to the Kuban River steppes. In the 18th century they endanged inner Russian cities, so the Russian Empire allied the Kalmucks (Kalmyks) to supplant Alshyns back to the Urals. There they formed the Lesser zhuz. During Kazakh-Kalymk struggles, Khiva Khanate annexed Mangyshlak Peninsula for repelling Kalmyk raids and managed it for two centuries before Russian conquest. In the beginning of the 19th century, Kazakhs shifted some to the west, to Astrakhan Governorate, forming Bukey Horde there. As the Kazakh SSR was formed with Bukey Horde as the most remoted its western part, situated geographically in Europe.\n\nHistorical leaders of Kazakh resistance against the Russian Empire associated with the Junior zhuz include Isatay Taymanuly (, 1791—1838) and Makhambet Otemisuly (, 1803/4–1846).\n\nThe Junior zhuz consisted of three groups, subdivided into clans:\n\n\n\n"}
