{"id": "8353437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8353437", "title": "Academia Belgica", "text": "Academia Belgica\n\nThe Academia Belgica is an academic organization. The goal of the Academy is to promote the cultural, scientific and artistic cooperation between Italy and Belgium. \n\nThe organization was founded in 1939 when the Belgian princess Marie-José married the Italian crown prince Umberto. The Academy is also the seat of the Belgian Historical Institute in Rome and of the foundation princess Marie-José, which supports historical research.\n\nIn 1947, Franz Cumont donated his library to the Academia Belgica. Pierre Bautier and Henri Pirenne, also donated collections to the academy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1265342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1265342", "title": "Academic dishonesty", "text": "Academic dishonesty\n\nAcademic dishonesty, academic misconduct, academic fraud and academic integrity are related concepts that refer to various actions on the part of students that go against the expected norms of a school, university or other learning institution. Definitions of academic misconduct are usually outlined in institutional policies.\n\nExamples of academic dishonest include:\n\n\nAcademic dishonesty has been documented in every type of educational setting from elementary school to graduate school. Throughout history this type of dishonesty has been met with varying degrees of approbation.\n\nIn antiquity, the notion of intellectual property was thought of differently than it is today. Ideas were the common property of the literate elite. Books were published by hand-copying them. Scholars shared digests or commentaries on other works, which could contain as much or as little original material as the author desired. There was no standard system of citation at this time. Scholars were an elite and small group who knew and generally trusted each other. This system continued through the European Middle Ages. Education was in Latin and occasionally Greek. Some scholars were monks, who used much of their time copying manuscripts. Other scholars were in urban universities connected to the Catholic Church. \n\nAcademic dishonesty dates back to the first tests. Scholars note that cheating was prevalent on the Chinese civil service exams thousands of years ago, even when cheating carried the penalty of death for both examinee and examiner. Bribery of examiners was also common, as represented in works such as the Ming-dynasty story collection \"The Book of Swindles\" and Qing-dynasty novel \"Rulin waishi\" [The Unofficial History of the Scholars].\n\nStandards for citation and referencing began at the end of the 19th century with the emergence of guidance provided by scholarly societies that developed discipline-specific expectations for referencing such as the MLA and the APA. About the same time, scholars began researching issues related to cheating, with some early research dating back to the late 19th century and early 20th centuries, when cheating was identified as a widespread problem at college campuses in the United States.\n\nIt has been estimated that as many as two-thirds of students cheated at some point of their college careers at the turn of the 20th century. Fraternities often operated so-called essay banks, where term papers were kept on file and could be resubmitted over and over again by different students, often with the only change being the name on the paper.\n\nThe issue of academic dishonesty became more prominent in the latter half of the twentieth century, as universities shifted towards more democratic approaches to admission.\n\nAcademic dishonesty does not have a universal definition. Educational institutions in different regions understand and act on academic dishonestly in different ways. Below are some examples of specific contexts.\n\nIn the United States, one study has shown that 20% of students started cheating in the first grade. Similarly, other studies reveal that currently in the U.S., 56% of middle school students and 70% of high school students have cheated. A large-scale study in Germany found that 75% of the university students admitted that they conducted at least one of seven types of academic misconduct (such as plagiarism or falsifying data) within the previous six months.\n\nStudents are not the only ones to cheat in an academic setting. A study among North Carolina school teachers found that some 35% of respondents said they had witnessed their colleagues cheating in one form or another. The rise of high-stakes testing and the consequences of the results on the teacher is cited as a reason why a teacher might want to inflate the results of their students.\n\nThe first scholarly studies in the 1960s of academic dishonesty in higher education found that nationally in the U.S., somewhere between 50–70% of college students had cheated at least once. While nationally, these rates of cheating in the U.S. remain stable today, there are large disparities between different schools, depending on the size, selectivity, and anti-cheating policies of the school. Generally, the smaller and more selective the college, the less cheating occurs there. For instance, the number of students who have engaged in academic dishonesty at small elite liberal arts colleges can be as low as 15–20%, while cheating at large public universities can be as high as 75%. Moreover, researchers have found that students who attend a school with an honor code are less likely to cheat than students at schools with other ways of enforcing academic integrity. As for graduate education, a recent study found that 56% of MBA students admitted cheating, along with 54% of graduate students in engineering, 48% in education, and 45% in law.\n\nCheating in high schools is growing in the United States at an exponential rate. There is also a great difference in students' perceptions and the reality of their own ethical behavior. In a 2008 survey of 30,000 students in high school carried out by the Josephson Institute for Youth Ethics, 62 percent of students polled said they \"copied another's homework two or more times in the past year.\" Yet, on the same survey, 92 percent said they were \"satisfied with their personal ethics and character.\" Hence, there is generally a discrepancy between actual behavior and self-image of high school students' character.\n\nAs more students take courses and assessments online, there is a persistent perception that it is easier to cheat in an online class than a face-to-face course. Moreover, there are online services that offer to prepare any kind of homework of high school and college level and take online tests for students. While administrators are often aware of such websites, they have been unsuccessful in curbing cheating in homework and non-proctored online tests, resorting to a recommendation by the Ohio Mathematics Association to derive at least 80% of the grade of online classes from proctored tests. In addition, colleges and universities are increasingly turning to online proctoring services to oversee tens of thousands of exams per year.\n\nWhile research on academic dishonesty in other countries is less extensive, anecdotal evidence suggests cheating could be even more common in countries like Japan and Philippines.\n\nA typology of academic misconduct has been devised by Perry (2010). Perry's typology presents a two dimensional model of academic misconduct with one dimension measuring the degree to which rules are understood and the other dimension measuring how closely these rules are followed. According to the typology only those students who understand the rules but fail to adhere to the rules are classified as 'cheats'.\n\nIn Australia, academic dishonesty is addressed by the Tertiary Education Quality Standards Agency, which is a government agency.\n\nIn the UK, the Quality Assurance Agency is responsible for quality assurance in higher education. It has produced several policy and guidance documents for policy makers, educators and the general public.\n\nIn Canada, academic misconduct is handled by individual post-secondary institutions, though research into the topic has lagged behind that of other countries. Research has shown that the incidence of academic dishonesty in Canada is similar to that of the United States.\n\nBribery is an act of giving money or gift giving that alters the behavior of the recipient. Bribery constitutes a crime and is defined by \"Black's Law Dictionary\" as the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of any item of value to influence the actions of an official or other person in charge of a public or legal duty.\n\nThe bribe is the gift bestowed to influence the recipient's conduct. It may be any money, good, right in action, property, preferment, privilege, emolument, object of value, advantage, or merely a promise or undertaking to induce or influence the action, vote, or influence of a person in an official or public capacity.\n\nCheating can take the form of crib notes, looking over someone's shoulder during an exam, or any forbidden sharing of information between students regarding an exam or exercise. Many elaborate methods of cheating have been developed over the years. For instance, students have been documented hiding notes in the bathroom toilet tank, in the brims of their baseball caps, up their sleeves, along their thighs or in their cleavage. Also, the storing of information in graphing calculators, pagers, cell phones, and other electronic devices has cropped up since the information revolution began. While students have long surreptitiously scanned the tests of those seated near them, some students actively try to aid those who are trying to cheat. Methods of secretly signalling the right answer to friends are quite varied, ranging from coded sneezes or pencil tapping to high-pitched noises beyond the hearing range of most teachers. Some students have been known to use more elaborate means, such as using a system of repetitive body signals like hand movements or foot jerking to distribute answers (i.e. where a tap of the foot could correspond to answer \"A\", two taps for answer \"B\", and so on).\n\nCheating differs from most other forms of academic dishonesty, in that people can engage in it without benefiting themselves academically at all. For example, a student who illicitly telegraphed answers to a friend during a test would be cheating, even though the student's own work is in no way affected. Another example of academic dishonesty is a dialogue between students in the same class but in two different time periods, both of which a test is scheduled for that day. If the student in the earlier time period informs the other student in the later period about the test; that is considered academic dishonesty, even though the first student has not benefited himself.\n\nOne other method is taking advantage of time zones, particularly in exams administered worldwide. Those who take the exam first (likely in Oceania) can then post answers for those about to take the exam (in a time zone behind like Europe).\n\nDeception is providing false information to a teacher/instructor concerning a formal academic exercise. Examples of this include taking more time on a take-home test than is allowed, giving a dishonest excuse when asking for a deadline extension, or falsely claiming to have submitted work. This type of academic misconduct is often considered softer than the more obvious forms of cheating, and otherwise-honest students sometimes engage in this type of dishonesty without considering themselves cheaters. It is also sometimes done by students who have failed to complete an assignment, to avoid responsibility for doing so.\n\nFabrication is the falsification of data, information, or citations in any formal academic exercise. This includes making up citations to back up arguments or inventing quotations. Fabrication predominates in the natural sciences, where students sometimes falsify data to make experiments \"work\". It includes data falsification, in which false claims are made about research performed, including selective submitting of results to exclude inconvenient data to generating bogus data.\n\nBibliographical references are often fabricated, especially when a certain minimum number of references is required or considered sufficient for the particular kind of paper. This type of fabrication can range from referring to works whose titles look relevant but which the student did not read, to making up bogus titles and authors.\n\nThere is also the practice of \"dry-labbing\"—which can occur in chemistry or other lab courses, in which the teacher clearly expects the experiment to yield certain results (which confirm established laws), so the student starts from the results and works backward, calculating what the experimental data should be, often adding variation to the data. In some cases, the lab report is written before the experiment is conducted—in some cases, the experiment is never carried out. In either case, the results are what the instructor expects.\n\nImpersonation is a form of cheating whereby a different person than the student assigned an assignment or exam completes it. Different from regular cheating, the academic work is totally 'outsourced' to another person or organization, usually for pay.\n\nPlagiarism, as defined in the 1995 \"Random House Compact Unabridged Dictionary\", is the \"use or close imitation of the language and thoughts of another author and the representation of them as one's own original work\". In academia, this can range from borrowing without attribution a particularly apt phrase, to paraphrasing someone else's original idea without citation, to wholesale contract cheating.\n\nThe modern concept of plagiarism as immoral and originality as an ideal emerged in Europe only in the 18th century, while in the previous centuries authors and artists were encouraged to \"copy the masters as closely as possible\" and avoid \"unnecessary invention\". The 18th century new morals have been institutionalized and enforced prominently in the sectors of academia (including academic science, education, engineering etc.) and journalism, where plagiarism is now considered academic dishonesty and a breach of journalistic ethics, subject to sanctions like expulsion and other severe career damages. Not so in the arts, which have resisted in their long-established tradition of copying as a fundamental practice of the creative process, with plagiarism being still hugely tolerated by 21st-century artists. Lawmaking is a professional field which is not structured around the concept of originality and for which plagiarism is less relevant.\n\nPlagiarism is not a crime but is disapproved more on the grounds of moral offence. It may be a case for civil law if it is so substantial to constitute copyright infringement.\n\nSince 2000, discussions on the subjects of student plagiarism have increased with a major strand of this discussion centring on the issue of how best students can be helped to understand and avoid plagiarism. Given the serious consequences that plagiarism has for students there has been a call for a greater emphasis on learning in order to help students avoid committing plagiarism.\n\nProfessorial misconduct includes improper grading of students' papers and oral exams, grade fraud, deliberate negligence towards cheating or assistance in cheating. This can be done for reasons of personal bias towards students (favoritism) or a particular viewpoint (intellectual dishonesty), for a bribe, or to improve the teacher's own perceived performance by increasing the passing rate. It is still occasionally done for matters of ego or to procure sexual favors (sexual harassment).\n\nSabotage is when a student or professor prevents others from completing their work. This includes cutting pages out of library books, deleting data off of classmate's computer or otherwise willfully disrupting the experiments of others. Sabotage is usually only found in highly competitive, cutthroat environments, such as at extremely elite schools where class rankings are highly prized.\nPoor behavior and the low level disruption of other students' learning, however, is extremely common in all educational settings.\nSome medical-school librarians have noted that important articles—required reading for key courses—are frequently missing from bound journals—sliced out with razor blades, scalpels, or other sharp blades. Other journals will be marked up in crayon. \n\nThere are a variety of causes of academic misconduct. Researchers have studied the correlation of cheating to personal characteristics, demographics, contextual factors, methods of deterring misconduct, even stages of moral development.\n\nSome scholars contend that there are students who have a pathological urge to cheat. The writer Thomas Mallon noted that many scholars had found plagiarism in literature (Samuel Taylor Coleridge and Charles Reade being two notable examples) to often be perpetrated in a way similar to kleptomania (a psychological disease associated with uncontrollable stealing, even when it is against the interests of the thief). On the other hand, Mallon concludes it is probable that most \"cheaters\" make a rational choice to commit academic misconduct. A common reason for unethical behavior is the desire to \"gain a competitive advantage in the race for position or power\".\n\nRichard Fass puts forward the possibility that business scandals in the real world make students believe dishonesty is an acceptable method for achieving success in contemporary society. Academic dishonesty, in this case, would be practice for the real world. For some students, there would be a dichotomy between success and honesty, and their decision is that: \"It is not that we love honesty less, but that we love success more.\" Conversely, other scholars consider that with the recent rise in corporate ethics related dismissals in the business world, this approach to cheating may be losing its appeal, if it ever really had any. However, it has been shown that the expected benefits of cheating as well as student's morality plays an important role for the engagement in dishonest behavior.\n\nRecent studies have indicated that there is no clear link between academic dishonesty and academic success. One study showed that students given an unexpected opportunity to cheat did not improve their grades significantly from the control group. Another study showed that students who were allowed to bring cheat sheets to a test did not improve their grades. While this may conflict with the common perception of cheating (one survey found only 13% of males and 46% of females think that cheating does not help grades,) it is often apparent to professors and members of academic conduct committees when a paper has been plagiarized by its inferior quality. \n\nIn the USA, William Bowers reported that, on average, one third of grade A students cheated in 1964. And asserts that academic dishonesty acts as a shortcut, so even grade A students might be tempted to cheat. He contends that even if a plagiarized paper receives a relatively low grade, that grade is actually high, given how much time and effort went into the paper. In the study mentioned above (in which students were allowed to bring crib sheets to a test but did not improve their scores), the researcher concluded that the students used the crib notes as alternatives to studying, rather than as complements to studying, and thus spent less time preparing for the exam.\n\nThe federal government of the United States has mandated high-stakes testing as part of the No Child Left Behind Act, signed into law in 2002. Schools and teachers are held accountable for the results. According to Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner, co-authors of \"Freakonomics\", teachers are known to \"teach to the test\": while not teaching the actual answers, they teach the questions and similar ones, and they neglect any topic that will not be tested on. Levitt also states that teachers may inflate the results of tests given in their classroom. Teachers and librarians can have a significant proactive impact on doing honest work.\n\nResearch has identified a number of demographic characteristics that appear to be important influences on cheating, including age, gender and grade point average. Older students, females, and students with higher academic achievement are less likely to cheat, whereas students involved with many extra-curricular activities are more likely to do so. Students involved in extra-curricular activities may be less committed to their studies, or may have more demands on their time, which interfere with their studies, creating a greater incentive to cheat. It has been found that younger students are somewhat more likely to cheat: one study finding the highest incidence of cheating occurs during sophomore year at college. Although cheating might be expected to decline with greater moral development, one experiment found that there was no relationship between how a student performed on a morality test and his likelihood of cheating (that is, students at a pre-conventional stage of morality are as likely to cheat as those at a post-conventional stage). Higher academic procrastination was also found to increase the frequency of seven different forms of academic misconduct (using fraudulent excuses, plagiarism, copying from someone else in exams, using forbidden means in exams, carrying forbidden means into exams, copying parts of homework from others, and fabrication or falsification of data) as well as the variety of academic misconduct. This German panel study among thousands of university students argues that academic misconduct might be a coping-strategy to overcome the negative consequences of academic procrastination such as lower performance.\n\nRace, nationality, and class all show little correlation with academic misconduct. There is also no correlation between how religious someone is and the likelihood that that person will cheat. A comparison between students of different religions yielded similar results, although the study did show that Jews tend to cheat less than members of other religions. One of the strongest demographic correlations with academic misconduct in the United States is with language. Students who speak English as a second language have been shown to commit academic dishonesty more and are more likely to be caught than native speakers, since they will often not want to rewrite sources in their own words, fearing that the meaning of the sentence will be lost through poor paraphrasing skills. In the University of California system, international students make up 10% of the student body but comprise 47% of academic dishonesty cases. In British universities, students from outside of the European Union make up 12% of the student body but comprise 35% of academic dishonesty cases.\n\nAcademic misconduct is more easily traced to the academic and social environment of students than to their background. These contextual factors can be as broad as the social milieu at school to as narrow as what instructions a teacher gives before an exam.\n\nContextual factors that individual teachers can affect often make the least difference on cheating behavior. A study found that increasing the distance between students taking an exam has little effect on academic misconduct, and that threatening students before an exam with expulsion if they cheat actually promotes cheating behavior. Indeed, increased exam proctoring and other methods of detecting cheating in the classroom are largely ineffective. According to one survey of American college students, while 50% had cheated at least once in the previous six months, and 7% had cheated more than five times in that period, only 2.5% of the cheaters had been caught. As teachers invent more elaborate methods of deterring cheating, students invent even more elaborate methods of cheating (sometimes even treating it as a game), leading to what some teachers call a costly and unwinnable arms race. Increased punishment for academic misconduct also has little correlation with cheating behavior. It has been found that students with markedly different perceptions of what the severity of the punishment for cheating were all equally likely to cheat, probably indicating that they thought that increased penalties were immaterial since their cheating would never be discovered. However, if a professor makes clear that he disapproves of cheating, either in the syllabus, in the first class, or at the beginning of a test, academic dishonesty can drop by 12%. Some professors may have little incentive to reduce cheating in their classes below a point that would otherwise be obvious to outside observers, as they are rated by how many research papers they publish and research grants they win for the college, and not by how well they teach.\n\nTeachers can, however, accidentally promote cheating behavior. A study found a correlation between how harsh or unfair a professor is perceived as and academic misconduct, since students see cheating as a way of getting back at the teacher. Also, students who see themselves in a competition, such as when the teacher is using a grade curve, are more likely to cheat.\n\nResearch has also shown a correlation between goal orientation and the occurrence of academic cheating. Students who perceive their classroom to have high mastery goals are less likely to engage in cheating than those who perceive their classroom to emphasize performance goals. In other words, students who are encouraged to learn for the sake of learning and who exhibit an intrinsic value of education are less likely to cheat than those who are encouraged primarily by grades and other extrinsic rewards.\n\nThe most important contextual causes of academic misconduct are often out of individual teachers' hands. One very important factor is time management. One survey reported two-thirds of teachers believed that poor time management was the principal cause of cheating. Often social engagements are to blame. It has been found that there is a strong correlation between extracurricular activities and cheating, especially among athletes, even those on intramural teams. It has also been found that student cheating rates rise significantly the more time students spend playing cards, watching television, or having a few drinks with friends. Relatedly, fraternity or sorority membership is also strongly correlated with academic misconduct.\n\nOne of the most important causes of academic misconduct is the contextual factor of an environment of peer disapproval of cheating, that is, peer pressure. Psychologists note that all people tend to follow the norms of their peer group, which would include norms about academic dishonesty. Thus, students who believe that their peers disapprove of cheating are less likely to cheat. Indeed, multiple studies show that the most decisive factor in a student's decision to cheat is his perception of his peers' relationship with academic dishonesty. For instance, on average 69% of students cheat at colleges with low community disapproval of academic misconduct, whereas only about 23% of students cheat at colleges with strong community disapproval of academic misconduct. Peer pressure works both ways, as a study found that there is a 41% increase in the probability of a student cheating if he or she has seen someone else cheat. However, even if most students strongly disapprove of cheating, there has to be a community in order for those norms to be enforced via peer pressure. For instance, larger schools, which usually have much higher cheating rates than small schools, tend to have a weaker community, being more split up into different peer groups that exert little social pressure on each other. Another measure of a college community, how many students live on campus, further shows a significant relation with a school's cheating rate. Relatedly, many professors argue that smaller classes reduce cheating behavior.\n\nNo matter what the demographic or contextual influences are on a student who decides to engage in cheating behavior, before they can cheat they must overcome their own conscience. This depends both on how strongly someone disapproves of academic dishonesty and what types of justifications the student uses to escape a sense of guilt. For instance, students who personally do not have a moral problem with academic misconduct can cheat guilt-free. However, while many students have been taught and have internalized that academic dishonesty is wrong, it has been shown that on average a third of students who strongly disapprove of cheating have in fact cheated. People who cheat despite personal disapproval of cheating engage in something called \"neutralization\", in which a student rationalizes the cheating as being acceptable due to certain mitigating circumstances. According to psychologists of deviant behavior, people who engage in neutralization support the societal norm in question, but \"conjure up\" reasons why they are allowed to violate that norm in a particular case. Neutralization is not a simple case of \"ex post facto\" rationalization, but is rather a more comprehensive affair, occurring before, during, and after the act of cheating. Researchers have found four major types of neutralization of academic dishonesty, which they categorize by type of justification. \"Denial of responsibility\" – that is, the accusation that others are to blame or that something forced the student to cheat – is the most common form of neutralization among college students who cheated, with 61% of cheaters using this form of justification. \"Condemnation of condemner\" – that is, that the professors are hypocrites or brought it on themselves – is the second most common form of college student neutralization at 28%. The third most popular form of neutralization among college students is the \"appeal to higher loyalties,\" where the student thinks their responsibility to some other entity, usually their peers, is more important than doing what they know to be morally right. About 6.8% of cheaters in higher education use this form of neutralization. \"Denial of injury\" – thinking that nobody is worse off for the cheating – is the fourth most popular kind of neutralization at 4.2% of cheaters.\n\nCheating in academics has a host of effects on students, on teachers, on individual schools, and on the educational system itself.\n\nFor instance, students who engage in neutralisation to justify cheating, even once, are more likely to engage in it in the future, potentially putting them on a road to a life of dishonesty. Indeed, one study found that students who are dishonest in class are more likely to engage in fraud and theft on the job when they enter the workplace. Students are also negatively affected by academic dishonesty after graduation. A university diploma is an important document in the labor market. Potential employers use a degree as a representation of a graduate's knowledge and ability. However, due to academic dishonesty, not all graduates with the same grades actually did the same work or have the same skills. Thus, when faced with the fact that they do not know which graduates are skilled and which are the \"lemons\" (see \"The Market for Lemons\"), employers must pay all graduates based on the quality of the average graduate. Therefore, the more students who cheat, getting by without achieving the required skills or learning, the lower the quality of the average graduate of a school, and thus the less employers are willing to pay a new hire from that school. Because of this reason, all students, even those that do not cheat themselves, are negatively affected by academic misconduct.\n\nAcademic dishonesty also creates problems for teachers. In economic terms, cheating causes an underproduction of knowledge, where the professor's job is to produce knowledge. Moreover, a case of cheating often will cause emotional distress to faculty members, many considering it to be a personal slight against them or a violation of their trust. Dealing with academic misconduct is often one of the worst parts of a career in education, one survey claiming that 77% of academics agreed with the statement \"dealing with a cheating student is one of the most onerous aspects of the job\".\n\nAcademic misconduct can also have an effect on a college's reputation, one of the most important assets of any school. An institution plagued by cheating scandals may become less attractive to potential donors and students and especially prospective employers. Alternatively, schools with low levels of academic dishonesty can use their reputation to attract students and employers.\n\nUltimately, academic dishonesty undermines the academic world. It interferes with the basic mission of education, the transfer of knowledge, by allowing students to get by without having to master the knowledge. Furthermore, academic dishonesty creates an atmosphere that is not conducive to the learning process, which affects honest students as well. When honest students see cheaters escape detection, it can discourage student morale, as they see the rewards for their work cheapened. Cheating also undermines academia when students steal ideas. Ideas are a professional author's \"capital and identity\", and if a person's ideas are stolen it retards the pursuit of knowledge.\n\nIf never formally retracted, fraudulent publications can remain an issue for many years as articles and books remain on shelves and continue to be cited. The case of S. Walter Poulshock, a 1960s early-career historian whose work was found to contain wholly fabricated material, was exposed in 1966 with the \"American Historical Review\" providing a warning on the topic. Nonetheless, his book was never removed from the shelves of many university libraries and (together with his related thesis) was still being cited in 2013, 47 years after it was intended to have been withdrawn by its publisher.\n\nAll parties involved in the dishonesty—not just the individual whose grade is increased by it—can be punished.\n\nHistorically the job of preventing cheating has been given to the teacher. It used to be that in college the professor acted \"in loco parentis\" and was able to regulate student behavior as a parent. Thus, professors who discovered cheating could assign essentially any punishment they deemed appropriate. Students often had no mechanism for appeal. Generally, proctors were hired to patrol exams. If a case was particularly serious, a dean or other top-level administrator might have been involved. Against this inconsistent and paternalistic system, students at some schools rebelled and demanded to be treated as adults.\n\nFirst at the College of William and Mary in 1779, and then followed by schools like the University of Virginia in the 1850s and Wesleyan University in 1893, the students, with the agreement of faculty who declared themselves dedicated to ideals of democracy and human character, created honor codes. B. Melendez of Harvard University defined an honor code as a code of academic conduct that includes a written pledge of honesty that students sign, a student controlled judiciary that hears alleged violations, unproctored examinations, and an obligation for all students help enforce the code. This system relied on student self-enforcement, which was considered more becoming of young gentlemen than the policing by proctors and professors that existed previously. Of interest, the military academies of the US took the honor code one step further than civilian colleges, disallowing \"tolerance\", which means that if a cadet or midshipman is found to have failed to report or outright protected someone engaged in academic dishonesty (as well as other dishonesties or stealing), that individual is to be expelled along with the perpetrator.\n\nHowever, many people doubted the advisability of relying on an abstract notion of honor to prevent academic dishonesty. This doubt has perhaps led to the reality that no more than a quarter of American universities have adopted honor codes. Moreover, many professors could not envisage a student run trial process that treated faculty accusers fairly. In response to these concerns, in the middle of the twentieth century, many schools devised mixed judicial panels composed of both students and faculty. This type of academic integrity system was similar to the traditional faculty control system in that it relied on professors to detect cheating, except in this system cheaters were brought before centralized boards of students and faculty for punishment. By the 1960s over a quarter of American universities had adopted this system of mixed judicial boards. Still, though, over half of American universities continued to use faculty-centered control systems.\n\nStarting in the 1960s, the U.S. Supreme Court began chipping away at the \"in loco parentis\" doctrine, giving college students more civil liberties such as the right of due process in disciplinary proceedings (\"Dixon v. Alabama Board of Education,\" 1961). In \"Cooper v. Blair\" (1973), specifically academic misconduct was ruled to require due process, being a disciplinary matter and not an educational matter. The due process rights of students in academic misconduct cases is not to the same degree as in a court of law. For instance, the student has no right to representation and the burden of proof is not necessarily stringent. In the \"General Order on Judicial Standards of Procedure and Substance in Review of Student Discipline in Tax Supported Institutions of Higher Education\", (1968) student due process rights were laid out as follows:\n\nThese new rules put an end to the old faculty-based system of policing academic dishonesty, now students were entitled to an impartial hearing. While schools using the old honor code method or the mixed judicial system were not affected by these decisions, schools using the faculty based system generally instituted systems that relied on a committee of faculty and administrators or a dean to run the academic misconduct hearings.\n\nRecently, Donald L. McCabe and Linda Klebe Trevino, two experts in the field of academic dishonesty, have proposed a new way of deterring cheating that has been implemented in schools such as the University of Maryland. Modified honor codes put students in charge of the judicial hearing process, making it clear that it is the students' responsibility to stop cheating amongst themselves, but at the same time students still have proctored exams and are not allowed to take pledges of good conduct in place of professor oversight. The researchers who advocate this type of code seem to think that the normal honor code is something of a special case that is not applicable to many schools. According to supporters of this system, schools with a large student body, a weak college community, or no history of student self-governance will not be able to support a full honor code. However, while modified honor codes seem to be more effective than faculty or administration run integrity codes of conduct, research shows that schools with modified codes still have higher rates of cheating than schools with full honor codes.\n\nResearch has shown that there is a strong correlation between forms of academic integrity system and levels of cheating at a school. Several studies have found students who attend schools with honor codes are less likely to cheat than students at schools with traditional integrity codes. Another study found that only 28% of schools with honor codes have high levels of cheating, whereas 81% of schools with mixed judicial boards have high rates of cheating. Whereas faculty or administration run codes of conduct tend to rely on policing and punishment to deter students from cheating, honor codes tend to rely on and cultivate student senses of honor and group peer pressure to deter academic misconduct. As mentioned above in the section on causes of cheating, increased enforcement or punishment is rarely effective at discouraging cheating, whereas there is a high correlation between peer pressure and academic honesty. The modified honor code attempts to cultivate peer disapproval of cheating while maintaining the traditional proctor system, although critics argue that the proctor system undermines the creation of an atmosphere of student self-policing, reducing the effectiveness of the honor code, possibly explaining why modified honor codes have not been as effective as the original version.\n\nThere are limitations to relying on the faculty to police academic dishonesty. One study found that up to 21% of professors have ignored at least one clear cut case of cheating. Another study revealed that 40% of professors \"never\" report cheating, 54% \"seldom\" report cheating, and that a mere 6% act on all cases of academic misconduct that confront them. A third survey of professors found that while 79% had observed cheating, only 9% had penalized the student. According to a manual for professors on cheating,\n\nThere are other reasons as well. Some professors are reluctant to report violations to the appropriate authorities because they believe the punishment to be too harsh.\n\nSome professors may have little incentive to reduce cheating in their classes below a point that would otherwise be obvious to outside observers, as they are rated by how many research papers they publish and research grants they win for the college, and not by how well they teach.\n\nOthers do not report academic misconduct because of postmodernist views on cheating. Postmodernism calls into question the very concepts of \"authorship\" and \"originality.\" From the perspective of cultural studies and historicism, authors themselves are simply constructs of their social surroundings, and thus they simply rewrite already written cultural stories. Moreover, in the field of composition studies, students are being encouraged more and more to do group work and participate in ongoing collective revision. The postmodernist view is that \"the concept of intellectual malpractice is of limited epistemological value. Under the ironic gaze of postmodernism, the distinctions between guilt and innocence, integrity and deceit permeating the scandal debates appear irrelevant.\" However, there is an argument that postmodernism is just moral relativism, therefore cheating is condoned as a valid academic method, even if it is morally and legally wrong. One professor wrote in an article in \"The English Journal\" that when he peeked in on an unproctored class taking a test and saw several students up and consulting with one another, he decided that they were not cheating, but were using non-traditional techniques and collaborative learning to surmount the obstacles teachers had put in their way. Issues of cultural relativism also affect professors' views on cheating; the standard objection being that \"students from certain Middle Eastern, Asian, and African cultures are baffled by the notion that one can 'own' ideas, since their cultures regard words and ideas as the property of all rather than as individual property\".\n\nAnother issue teachers may have with deterring cheating is that they may decide that it is not their job. The argument that \"they're professors, not policemen\" is often heard in academia. In economic terms, some professors believe they are being paid to provide learning, and if the student loses that learning through cheating, he is only cheating himself out of the money he paid.\n\nWith the advancement of the internet, there are now several tools available to aid in the detection of plagiarism and multiple publication within biomedical literature. One tool developed in 2006 by researchers in Harold Garner's laboratory at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas is Déjà Vu, an open-access database containing several thousand instances of duplicate publication.\n\n"}
{"id": "41723229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41723229", "title": "Academic imperialism", "text": "Academic imperialism\n\nAcademic imperialism is a form of imperialism where there is an unequal relation between academics, where one group dominates and the other is dominated or ignored. Early theories of academic imperialism date to the 1960s.\n\nAcademic imperialism has been defined either in the context of certain disciplines or subdisciplines oppressing others, or (more often) as part of the political imperialism, focused on inequality between academia in the First World (the West) and Third World.\n\nIn the intradisciplinary context, an example of imperialistic behavior was the dismissive attitude of the 1920s-1930s adherents of behavioral psychology in the United States towards non-behavioral psychologists.\n\nIn the international context, academic imperialism began in the colonial period when the colonial powers designed and implemented a system of academia in their colonial territories. C. K. Raju claims academic imperialism emerged thanks to adoption of racist thoughts among native colonial elites. Academic imperialism is blamed for \"tutelage, conformity, secondary role of dominated intellectuals and scholars, rationalization of the civilizing mission, and the inferior talent of scholars from the home country specializing in studies of the colony.\" In the modern postcolonial era, academic imperialism has transformed itself into a more indirect form of control, based on Western monopoly on the flow of information in the world of academia. Syed Farid Alatas calls this \"academic neo-colonialism\".\n\nInternational academic imperialism generates academic dependency, or the dependency of non-Western scholars on Western academia. In non-Western countries, science is still dependent on institutions and ideas of Western science, which are often transplanted from Western countries.\n\nSyed Farid Alatas lists the following six aspects of academic dependency:\n\n\nSpecific examples of academic dependency include the fact that most major journals are based in the Western countries and carry works by scholars located at Western universities; and that scholars in the Western countries study the entire world, whereas scholars in the non-Western countries focus on their own societies. Another example is the dominance of English language in the world of international academia.\n"}
{"id": "30871394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30871394", "title": "Accountability in the European Union", "text": "Accountability in the European Union\n\nAs with all public budgets, the EU's budget is also at risk of maladministration. Every year, the Court of Auditors reports on the management of the budget. The introduction of transparency and a double-entry book-keeping system is likely to improve budget management.\n\nIn order to strengthen the means of fraud prevention, the Commission established the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF - Office Européen de Lutte Anti-Fraude) by EC, ECSC Decision 1999/352. The Office was given responsibility for conducting administrative anti-fraud investigations by having conferred on it a special independent status.\n\nThe Court of Auditors checks that all the Union's revenue has been received and all its expenditure incurred in a lawful and regular manner and that the EU budget has been managed soundly. The Court was established on 22 July 1975 by the Budgetary Treaty of 1975. The Court started operating as an external Community audit body in October 1977.\n\nAt present, the meetings of the Council of Ministers (the relevant Minister from each member state) are mostly public, a webcast on the sessions can be seen on the website of the Council. What goes on behind the scenes will, of course, never be televised.\n\nAlso, the standard of plenary sittings of the European Parliament is to stream the debates over the Internet. In addition, the public can observe sittings directly from a separate gallery. Also, nearly all sittings of Parliamentary Committees are observable by the public, except for certain matters such as requests for removal of the parliamentary immunity of a Member of the European Parliament.\n\nIn addition, the activities of the European Commission are subject to transparency. The monitoring of the Commission has to be performed by a body that is independent of the Commission, such as \"European Anti-Fraud Office\" (OLAF) that reports to the European Parliament.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8180153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8180153", "title": "Attilio Labis", "text": "Attilio Labis\n\nAttilio Labis (born 1936) is a French ballet dancer and teacher. He began his training at the Opéra de Paris when he was nine years old and rose through the ranks of the school. In 1952 he was accepted into the corps de ballet Paris Opera Ballet, but in 1958 he had to join the military. Upon the completion his military service, he came back and successfully auditioned for a \"Premier Danseur\" (First soloist) position after only one week of training. He was promoted to \"Danseur Étoile\" (principal dancer) approximately one year later, after André Malraux saw him dance \"Pas de Dieux\", a choreography by Gene Kelly, and recommended he be promoted. He performed as a \"Danseur Étoile\" (principal dancer) in the Paris Opera Ballet from 1960 to 1972, then taught the company as a ballet teacher until his retirement.<br>\nHe is seen as having brought many technical innovations to the French school, including more acrobatic steps in solos and duets, and moving the foot higher to the \"retiré au genou\" (knee height) position for pirouettes, from the old \"à la cheville\" (ankle height) position.<br>\nHe often performed with his wife, \"Étoile\" Christine Vlassi, as well as with other \"Étoiles\" such as Margot Fonteyn and Claude Bessy.<br>\nHe originated the role of Siegfried in the Vladimir Bourmeister staging of Swan Lake at the Paris Opera Ballet.\n\nLabis has appeared in several movies and television series, including \"L' Âge en fleur\" (1975), \"Le Spectre de la danse\" (1986), and \"Les Cahiers retrouvés de Nina Vyroubova\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17049030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17049030", "title": "Center for Research and Restoration of Museums of France", "text": "Center for Research and Restoration of Museums of France\n\nThe Centre for Research and Restoration of the Museums of France (C2RMF, \"Centre de recherche et de restauration des musées de France\") is the national research centre in France responsible for the documentation, conservation and restoration of the items held in the collections of more than 1,200 museums across France. C2RMF also carries out extensive scientific studies and data recording for these collections, and is active both nationally and internationally in the field of cultural heritage conservation and analysis. The C2RMF is involved in the development of technologies and scientific procedures employed in the preservation of art works and artefacts, both on its own and in partnership with other museums and research institutions across the globe.\n\nThe centre was established in 1998 by an \"arrêté\" (administrative decision) issued by Catherine Trautmann, the then Minister of Culture and Communications, which was gazetted in the \"Journal Officiel\" on December 30. It was created by merging the functions and facilities of two other research bodies, the Laboratoire de recherche des musées de France (LRMF, \"Research Laboratory of the Museums of France\") and the Service de restauration des musées de France (SRMF, \"Restoration Service of the Museums of France\") and it is organized in 4 departments. Today the center is affiliated to the CNRS with the label UMR-171.\n\nIn 2005 Mme. Christiane Naffah was appointed director of the centre by the French Minister of Culture and Communications Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres, replacing Jean-Pierre Mohen. Naffah had been a curator in France's national museums since 1977, and prior to her appointment had held positions at the Louvre, Musée du Quai Branly and had been director of the Musée de l'institut du monde arabe.\nThe actual director is Mme. Marie Lavandier.\n\nSince the early 1930s, over 174,000 paintings and 34,000 objects have been individually studied or restored by the C2RMF, and its predecessor organisations LRMF and SRMF.\n\nThe C2RMF's key activities focus on the study of works of art at both a national and regional level. It undertakes investigations prior to any acquisition. Equipped with world-class experimental facilities that are constantly being improved, like the particle accelerator AGLAE, the C2RMF focuses its research on several key areas: the physical\nand chemical characteristics of materials, the ageing of materials, database management, image analysis, digitisation and 3D modelling. The C2RMF is one of the most experienced centres in the world in the use of scientific techniques on art works. They have an unparalleled knowledge and experience of the current state-of-the-art in the practical capture of 3D data from many different types of artefact. The latest research has concerned the multispectral imaging of paintings, ontologies and the semantic web and the 3D modelling of objects and paintings. Furthermore, it has achieved significant results with an Open Source database management system that provides multilingual access (17 languages) to specialised vocabularies for the cultural museum sector and a semantic interface to browse the results.\n\n"}
{"id": "3119211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3119211", "title": "Chris Offutt", "text": "Chris Offutt\n\nChristopher John \"Chris\" Offutt (born August 24, 1958) is an American writer. He is most widely known for his short stories and novels, but he has also published two memoirs and nonfiction articles. In 2005, he had a story included in a comic book collection edited by Michael Chabon, and another in the anthology \"Noir\". He has written episodes for the TV series \"True Blood\" and \"Weeds.\"\n\nChris Offutt was born in Lexington, Kentucky, the son of Andrew J. Offutt, an author, and his wife Jodie. His brother Jeff Offutt is a professor of software engineering. He has two sisters, Scotty Hyde, who lives in Bowling Green, Kentucky, and Melissa Offutt, in San Diego. They grew up in Haldeman, a small former mining community located in Rowan County in the Appalachian Mountain foothills of eastern Kentucky. They all attended public schools. Offutt quit high school intending to join the army, but failed the physical. \nOffutt subsequently attended Morehead State University and graduated with a degree in theater and a minor in English. After college, he hitchhiked around the country, taking more than 50 jobs, all part-time, and began writing.\n\nOffutt later attended the Iowa Writers' Workshop.\n\nIn 1992, Offutt published his first short story collection, \"Kentucky Straight\". His second book was the 1993 memoir \"The Same River Twice\". In 1997 he published his first novel, \"The Good Brother\".\n\nIn 1999, he published his second collection of stories, \"Out of the Woods\". His next book was a memoir, \"No Heroes: A Memoir of Coming Home\" (2002), about a six-month return to Rowan County where he had lived as a child.\n\nIn 2005, Offutt made his comic book debut when he wrote \"Another Man's Escape\" for \"Michael Chabon Presents: The Amazing Adventures of the Escapist\". A second comic is included in the anthology \"Noir\", from Dark Horse Comics.\n\nOffutt has been a visiting faculty member at the Iowa Writers' Workshop, the University of Montana, the University of New Mexico, Grinnell College, Morehead State University, and Mercer University. He is teaching at the University of Mississippi as visiting faculty.\n\nIn addition to his fiction, Offutt writes non-fiction articles, which have been published in \"The New York Times\", \"Men's Journal\", and the \"Oxford American\" and aired on National Public Radio. His work is widely translated, and it is taught in high schools and colleges. His stories are included in many anthologies, including \"Best American Short Stories\", and \"New Stories of the South\" (four works). They have twice been featured on \"Selected Shorts\" on NPR. He has also written screenplays for TV series.\n\nHis work has received awards from the Lannan Foundation, Guggenheim Foundation, the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and the National Endowment for the Arts. He received a Whiting Award in Fiction and Nonfiction. In 1996 Offutt was named one of the twenty best young American fiction writers by \"Granta\" magazine.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1532957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1532957", "title": "Cognitive load", "text": "Cognitive load\n\nIn cognitive psychology, cognitive load refers to the effort being used in the working memory. Cognitive load theory differentiates cognitive load into three types: intrinsic, extraneous, and germane.\n\n\"Intrinsic\" cognitive load is the effort associated with a specific topic, \"extraneous\" cognitive load refers to the way information or tasks are presented to a learner, and \"germane\" cognitive load refers to the work put into creating a permanent store of knowledge, or a schema.\n\nCognitive load theory was developed in the late 1980s out of a study of problem solving by John Sweller. Sweller argued that instructional design can be used to reduce cognitive load in learners.\nMuch later, other researchers developed a way to measure perceived mental effort which is indicative of cognitive load. \nTask-invoked pupillary response is a reliable and sensitive measurement of cognitive load that is directly related to working memory. Heavy cognitive load can have negative effects on task completion, and it is important to note that the experience of cognitive load is not the same in everyone. The elderly, students, and children experience different, and more often higher, amounts of cognitive load.\n\nHigh cognitive load in the elderly has been shown to affect their center of balance. With increased distractions, particularly from cell phone use, students are more prone to experiencing high cognitive load which can reduce academic success.\n\n\"Cognitive load theory has been designed to provide guidelines intended to assist in the presentation of information in a manner that encourages learner activities that optimize intellectual performance\". Sweller's theory employs aspects of information processing theory to emphasize the inherent limitations of concurrent working memory load on learning during instruction. It makes use of the schema as primary unit of analysis for the design of instructional materials.\n\nThe history of cognitive load theory can be traced to the beginning of Cognitive Science in the 1950s and the work of G.A. Miller. In his classic paper, Miller was perhaps the first to suggest our working memory capacity has inherent limits. His experimental results suggested that humans are generally able to hold only seven plus or minus two units of information in short-term memory. And in the early 1970s Simon and Chase were the first to use the term \"chunk\" to describe how people might organize information in short-term memory. This chunking of memory components has also been described as schema construction.\n\nIn the late 1980s John Sweller developed cognitive load theory (CLT) while studying problem solving. Studying learners as they solved problems, he and his associates found that learners often use a problem solving strategy called means-ends analysis. He suggests problem solving by means-ends analysis requires a relatively large amount of cognitive processing capacity, which may not be devoted to schema construction. Sweller suggests that instructional designers should prevent this unnecessary cognitive load by designing instructional materials which do not involve problem solving. Examples of alternative instructional materials include what are known as worked-examples and goal-free problems.\n\nIn the 1990s, cognitive load theory was applied in several contexts. The empirical results from these studies led to the demonstration of several learning effects: the completion-problem effect; modality effect; split-attention effect; worked-example effect; and expertise reversal effect.\n\nCognitive load theory provides a general framework and has broad implications for instructional design, by allowing instructional designers to control the conditions of learning within an environment or, more generally, within most instructional materials. Specifically, it provides empirically-based guidelines that help instructional designers decrease extraneous cognitive load during learning and thus refocus the learner's attention toward germane materials, thereby increasing germane (schema related) cognitive load. This theory differentiates between three types of cognitive load: intrinsic cognitive load, germane cognitive load, and extraneous cognitive load.\n\n\"Intrinsic cognitive load\" is the inherent level of difficulty associated with a specific instructional topic. The term was first used in the early 1990s by Chandler and Sweller. According to them, all instruction has an inherent difficulty associated with it (e.g., the calculation of 2 + 2, versus solving a differential equation). This inherent difficulty may not be altered by an instructor. However, many schemas may be broken into individual \"subschemas\" and taught in isolation, to be later brought back together and described as a combined whole.\n\n\"Extraneous cognitive load\" is generated by the manner in which information is presented to learners and is under the control of instructional designers. This load can be attributed to the design of the instructional materials. Because there is a single limited cognitive resource using resources to process the extraneous load, the amount of resources available to process the intrinsic load and germane load (i.e., learning) is reduced. Thus, especially when intrinsic and/or germane load is high (i.e., when a problem is difficult), materials should be designed so as to reduce the extraneous load.\n\nAn example of extraneous cognitive load occurs when there are two possible ways to describe a square to a student. A square is a figure and should be described using a figural medium. Certainly an instructor can describe a square in a verbal medium, but it takes just a second and far less effort to see what the instructor is talking about when a learner is shown a square, rather than having one described verbally. In this instance, the efficiency of the visual medium is preferred. This is because it does not unduly load the learner with unnecessary information. This unnecessary cognitive load is described as extraneous.\n\nChandler and Sweller introduced the concept of extraneous cognitive load. This article was written to report the results of six experiments that they conducted to investigate this working memory load. Many of these experiments involved materials demonstrating the split attention effect. They found that the format of instructional materials either promoted or limited learning. They proposed that differences in performance were due to higher levels of the cognitive load imposed by the format of instruction. \"Extraneous cognitive load\" is a term for this unnecessary (artificially induced) cognitive load.\n\n\"Germane cognitive load\" is the processing, construction and automation of schemas. It was first described by Sweller, Van Merriënboer and Paas in 1998. While intrinsic cognitive load is generally thought to be immutable (although techniques can be applied to manage complexity by segmenting and sequencing complex material), instructional designers can manipulate extraneous and germane load. It is suggested that they limit extraneous load and promote germane load.\n\nUntil the 1998 article by Sweller, Van Merriënboer & Paas, cognitive load theory primarily concentrated on the reduction of extraneous cognitive load. With this article, cognitive load researchers began to seek ways of redesigning instruction to redirect what would be extraneous load, to now be focused toward schema construction (germane load). Thus it is very important for instructional designers to \"reduce extraneous cognitive load and redirect learners' attention to cognitive processes that are directly relevant to the construction of schemas\".\n\nPaas and Van Merriënboer developed a construct (known as relative condition efficiency) which helps researchers measure perceived mental effort, an index of cognitive load. This construct provides a relatively simple means of comparing instructional conditions. It combines mental effort ratings with performance scores. Group mean z-scores are graphed and may be compared with a one-way Analysis of variance (ANOVA).\n\nPaas and Van Merriënboer used relative condition efficiency to compare three instructional conditions (worked examples, completion problems, and discovery practice). They found learners who studied worked examples were the most efficient, followed by those who used the problem completion strategy. Since this early study many other researchers have used this and other constructs to measure cognitive load as it relates to learning and instruction.\n\nThe ergonomic approach seeks a quantitative neurophysiological expression of cognitive load which can be measured using common instruments, for example using the heart rate-blood pressure product (RPP) as a measure of both cognitive and physical occupational workload. They believe that it may be possible to use RPP measures to set limits on workloads and for establishing work allowance.\n\nTask-invoked pupillary response is a form of measurement that directly reflects the cognitive load on working memory. Greater pupil dilation is found to be associated with high cognitive load. Pupil constriction occurs when there is low cognitive load. Task-invoked pupillary response shows a direct correlation with working memory, making it an effective measurement of cognitive load explicitly unrelated to learning.\n\nSome researchers have compared different measures of cognitive load. For example, Deleeuw and Mayer (2008) compared three commonly used measures of cognitive load and found that they responded in different ways to extraneous, intrinsic, and germane load.\n\nEstablished eye movement and pupillary response indicators of cognitive load are:\n\nEvidence has been found that individuals systematically differ in their processing capacity. For example, there are individual differences in processing capacities between novices and experts. Experts have more knowledge or experience with regard to a specific task which reduces the cognitive load associated with the task. Novices do not have this experience or knowledge and thus have heavier cognitive load.\n\nIt has been theorized that an impoverished environment can contribute to cognitive load. Regardless of the task at hand, or the processes used in solving the task, people who experience poverty also experience higher cognitive load. A number of factors contribute to the cognitive load in people with lower socioeconomic status that are not present in middle and upper-class people.\n\nIdentifying the processing capacity of individuals could be extremely useful in further adapting instruction (or predicting the behavior) of individuals. Accordingly, further research would clearly be desirable. First, it is essential to compute the memory load imposed by detailed analysis of the processes to be used. Second, it is essential to ensure that individual subjects are actually using those processes. The latter requires intensive pre-training.\n\nA heavy cognitive load typically creates error or some kind of interference in the task at hand. A heavy cognitive load can also increase stereotyping. Stereotyping is an extension of the Fundamental Attribution Error which also increases in frequency with heavier cognitive load. The notions of cognitive load and arousal contribute to the \"Overload Hypothesis\" explanation of social facilitation: in the presence of an audience, subjects tend to perform worse in subjectively complex tasks (whereas they tend to excel in subjectively easy tasks).\n\nThe danger of heavy cognitive load is seen in the elderly population. Aging can cause declines in the efficiency of working memory which can contribute to higher cognitive load. The relationship between heavy cognitive load and control of center of mass are heavily correlated in the elderly population. As cognitive load increases, the sway in center of mass in elderly individuals increases. Another study examined the relationship between body sway and cognitive function and their relationship during multitasking and found disturbances in balance led to a decrease in performance on the cognitive task Heavy cognitive load can disturb balance in elderly people. Conversely, an increasing demand for balance can increase cognitive load.\n\nWith the widespread acceptance of laptops in the classroom, an increasing cognitive load while in school is a major concern. With the use of Facebook and other social forms of communication, adding multiple tasks is hurting students performance in the classroom. When many cognitive resources are available, the probability of switching from one task to another is high and does not lead to optimal switching behavior. Both students who were heavy Facebook users and students who sat nearby those who were heavy Facebook users performed poorly and resulted in lower GPA.\n\nThe components of working memory as proposed by British psychologists, Alan Baddeley and Graham Hitch, are in place at 6 years of age. However, there is a clear difference between adult and child knowledge. These differences are due to developmental increases in processing efficiency. Children lack general knowledge, and this is what creates increased cognitive load in children. Children in impoverished families often experience even higher cognitive load in learning environments than those in middle-class families. These children do not hear, talk, or learn about schooling concepts because their parents often do not have formal education. When it comes to learning, their lack of experience with numbers, words, and concepts increases their cognitive load.\n\nAs children grow older they develop superior basic processes and capacities. They also develop metacognition, which helps them to understand their own cognitive activities. Lastly, they gain greater content knowledge through their experiences. These elements help reduce cognitive load in children as they develop.\n\nGesturing is a technique children use to reduce cognitive load while speaking. By gesturing, they can free up working memory for other tasks. Pointing allows a child to use the object they are pointing at as the best representation of it, which means they do not have to hold this representation in their working memory, thereby reducing their cognitive load. Additionally, gesturing about an object that is absent reduces the difficulty of having to picture it in their mind.\n\nBodily activity can both be advantageous and detrimental to learning depending on how this activity is implemented. Cognitive load theorists have asked for updates that makes CLT more compatible with insights from embodied cognition research. As a result, Embodied Cognitive Load Theory has been suggested as a means to predict the usefulness of interactive features in learning environments. In this framework, the benefits of an interactive feature (such as easier cognitive processing) need to exceed its cognitive costs (such as motor coordination) in order for an embodied mode of interaction to increase learning outcomes.\n\n\nFor those wishing to learn more about cognitive load theory, please consider reading these journals and special issues of those journals:\n\nFor ergonomics standards see:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49291260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49291260", "title": "College interview", "text": "College interview\n\nA college interview is a short face-to-face meeting, usually between a college admissions officer and a high school student applying for admission. It is one of several ways for a college to assess an applicant along with grade transcripts and standardized scores and essays. Interviews can take place on the college campus, at the high school (if the college sends representatives), and elsewhere such as at a local coffee shop if there is an interview between a student and an alumnus. In addition, several colleges have been experimenting with online interviews. If offered by a college, interviews are sometimes described as optional, but one report suggested that not doing an interview when one was offered could hinder chances for admission. Further, doing an interview signals an interest in attending.\n\nLikely interview questions include:\nCounselors and teachers and professional consultants offer differing guidelines about interviews. Most suggest that an interviewee should \"dress to impress\", avoid wearing provocative or inappropriate clothes, although a report in 2009 suggested that hiring a fashion consultant and shopping for expensive clothes before an interview was unnecessary and could backfire. There is strong consensus that rehearsing for interviews is important. Former Andover theater instructor and professional interview coach Mark Efinger believes that preparation is vital for a successful interview. Sometimes assistants help students prepare for the interview. Private secondary schools such as St. Paul's in New Hampshire have a two-week \"boot camp\" in the summer before senior year to help students prepare which includes simulated practice interviews. Efinger advises students to write up their major achievements, organize them into themes, and have a three to five minute theme-oriented \"success story\" ready (but not memorized) before an interview, and suggests that interviewees should try to steer the conversation to show how their skills and experience meet criteria valued by the interviewer. For example, if trying to demonstrate an aptitude for \"planning and organization\", he or she might show how they plan their schedule using their mobile scheduling app.\n\nAdvisers agree that a usual open-ended question to begin the interview will be along the lines of \"tell me about yourself\", and that a student should be ready with a response. Several emphasize the importance of being able to back up adjectives such as \"hardworking\" and \"motivated\" with a brief and memorable anecdote to explain further what is meant. Efinger describes such anecdotes as \"arrows\" designed to \"hit the bull’s-eye\" to make a point which sticks in the interviewer's mind; in addition, interview preparation can include a private soul-searching exercise called a \"failure resume\" to get students to think about their past mistakes in order to help them outline what they learned from their experience. It helps for students to understand what they want and to show how a particular college can help them achieve their long range goals. While interviews can be stressful, one report suggested that the main purpose of the interview was to \"show that you are a good person\" who is \"polite and interesting\" with a \"sense of humor\". Another report suggested the most important thing, when an applicant has strong grades and test scores and activities, is simply not \"blowing the interview\", although this varies by college.\n\n"}
{"id": "975219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=975219", "title": "Commons club", "text": "Commons club\n\nA Commons Club is a type of social organization whose membership is \"open\" rather than selective based on personal introduction and invitation. It may also refer to the lodge or other meeting facility associated with such a club and used for its activities. Usually, \"Commons Club\" refers to a type of men's social organization which flourished at institutions of higher education in North America in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nCommons Clubs both emulated and differentiated themselves from fraternities and other competing social institutions. They provided a social network, but membership was usually open to anyone interested in joining. The resources of a large organization could be put to sponsoring events and activities, as well as providing dining and housing, beyond the means of an individual student. Commons Clubs over time came to identify their chief ideals as Democracy, Service, and Brotherhood.\n\nI Believe in Democracy... a democracy characterized by the practice of justice in every relation of life. I hold that justice is the foremost principle to be considered in making my decisions as a voting member of the Commons Club, the student body, and as a citizen of the United States. I believe in that broad conception of democracy which seeks freedom of opportunity, and recognizes no color, race, creed, or position.\n\nI Believe in Service... service to the college; service to every group organized for the common good; service to the individual. I believe in service defined in the terms of voluntary sacrifice for the welfare of those with whom I come in contact.\n\nI Believe in Brotherhood... Brotherhood that reaches beyond the limits of the Commons Club and welcomes every man as my Brother. I believe in the intrinsic worth of the man at my side, and in his ability to make good and justify my faith in him.\n\nI hold these beliefs as my profound conviction, and I pledge my fellow men to live up to them to the best of my ability.\n\nGreek-letter literary and philosophical societies, starting with Phi Beta Kappa (est. 1779), rose at American universities as an outlet for students frustrated with the traditional curriculum centered on the classics. Some early organizations to use the phrase \"commons club\" were of this type, their name referring to the democracy and debates of the British House of Commons. In the mid-19th century, general or \"social\" fraternities supplanted the literary fraternities, to the point where \"independent\" students became disadvantaged in campus awards and activities as opposed to \"Greeks\" and considered to occupy a lower position in the social hierarchy of the time.\n\nThe founding of the first Commons Club can be tentatively traced back to the founding of Wesleyan University. The founders of Wesleyan University selected Dr. Wilbur Fisk, a Methodist preacher who had successfully revived the Wesleyan Academy in Massachusetts during the late 1820s, as the first President. Dr. Fisk was widely known to be an opponent of abolitionism, as he saw in it a threat to divide the Methodist Church. On October 8, 1833, a group known as the Tub Philosophers or the Cynics, the first 4-year secret society on the Wesleyan Campus, rose in opposition to Dr. Fisk. Inspired by the Rev. John Wesley's pamphlet \"Thoughts Upon Slavery,\" they decided to form a group based upon the \"Golden Rule.\" This group would go through many changes (changed name to Thecannies Society in 1839 and again changed name to Wesleyan House of Commons Debating Society 1840) and have a tenuous and possibly discontinuous existence until Woodrow Wilson would reorganize it in 1889.\n\nAs a counter to the advantages held by the \"Greeks,\" Woodrow Wilson, then a member of the Wesleyan University faculty, reformed the Wesleyan House of Commons Debating Society in 1889 to look after the social need of male students outside the fraternity system. In 1899, sixteen non-fraternity men, led by Frederick Clark, Thomas Travis, and Herbert Ward, formally established the Wesleyan Commons Club. In November 1899, they met and talked the matter over with Dr. Frank Walter Nicolson, Dean. Dean Nicolson was impressed with the fact that the non-fraternity members of the college were boarding around town or boarding themselves with no social opportunities. The Dean suggested to the President of the University that the Trustees do something. A newspaper contribution also appeared as the result of discussions among this group picturing the drab lot of the non-fraternity men at Wesleyan Dean Nicolson persuaded the trustees of Wesleyan to convert the unused Foss House on the campus, formerly a private dwelling, into a new college-operated lunchroom, and lounging place, or “Commons” for the Commons Club. The Trustees organized the Commons Club as a dining hall, beginning with thirty-eight members, setting the price of board at $2.25 a week. The next fall, the membership increased to seventy and the college enlarged the building in which they were dining to provide meeting rooms for the group. Because of the financial aid provided, the Trustees felt free to make a condition that all undergraduate members of the college, not belonging to fraternities, should be offered an election to the group regardless of race, color or creed.\n\nThe success of the Wesleyan Commons Club inspired the founding of similar organizations at Dartmouth College, Middlebury College, and Norwich University. These four formed the National Federation of Commons Clubs in 1906, which would add thirteen additional members by 1918 as well as numerous non-aligned Commons Clubs on campuses throughout the United States and Canada. Along with the increase in chapter memberships, went a great many improvements, following the easiest course in imitation of the older Greek-letter societies which were close at hand in every college, rather than in sticking to original principles or in making novel but difficult improvements. The Commons Clubs adopted, one after the other, most of the characteristics of the Greek-letter fraternities, not, however, without a fight at every adoption by the sterner, more democratic element in every chapter. The innovations consisted of yearly conventions, an annual magazine, initiation and installation rituals, robes, secret hand grips, badges, pennants, private fraternity houses, alumni organizations, and the like.\n\nBecause membership was open, a Commons Club could grow to a size unwieldy to govern, inadequate for forming close friendships, and unsuited to the effective advancement of their stated ideals. Factions and in some cases whole clubs split away and sought petitions from national fraternities or declared themselves a local fraternity. In 1905, ten members of the Middlebury Commons Club, including President George E. Kimball, left to form a new organization which later became the Kappa Delta Rho national fraternity. The weak organization of the Federation itself left it vulnerable to splits along competing visions. The never-solved problems of the national order included that of financial support of an adequate system of national control and chapter assistance, without so raising the cost of membership as to defeat the democratic principles of the order; and that of maintaining an efficient and progressive national administration, while still fostering freedom of action of chapters and of individual members. Most of the national officials, by terms of the constitution, were unpaid undergraduates with little power and with scant financial allotment. National control was entirely lacking. Local autonomy allowed the chapters to develop without any spirit of national unity.\n\nAs the principles of the order became crystallized and some attempts were made to secure closer national control and similarity among the chapters, the old fight between the democratic and the progressive elements broke out in a more organized way. That is, the progressive elements in a number of chapters lined up against the democratic factions of other chapters and brought their arguments into the columns of the Chronicle and to the convention floor in 1916, 1917, and 1918.\n\nAn attempt was made by the national officers to postpone the 1918 annual convention in an effort to consolidate the interior position of the order, but the storm which had been hovering for years was far too advanced to stem. Ironically, the Wesleyan Commons Club hastened the storm by proposing in a 1917 round robin letter that the order use a Greek-letter name \"Phi Mu Delta.\" The \"progressives\" insisted upon meeting and settling the question. Only a small representation attended the convention, delegates from seven of the remaining thirteen chapters. The progressives controlled the delegates of four chapters, the democrats of three. A compromise was tried but found unacceptable to either side. The progressives insisted upon a Greek-letter name and exclusive membership policies and the democrats leaned over backwards on the fundamental democratic principles of the order and insisted that the original wide open membership plan be strictly enforced and the old name retained.\n\nThe 1918 convention split into two separate meetings, Union College, University of Connecticut, University of Vermont, and University of New Hampshire delegates retiring. Clarence Dexter Pierce, a member of the University of Vermont Commons Club, successfully sponsored a resolution to declare the Federation a Greek-letter fraternity, with its attendant structure and selectivity. The Commons Clubs at the University of Vermont, University of New Hampshire, and University of Connecticut ratified the plan, forming what is now the Phi Mu Delta national fraternity. While the Union College Commons Club intended to join its counterparts in organizing Phi Mu Delta, the group instead elected to refound the Alpha Charge of Theta Delta Chi in 1923 because of pressure from its alumni.\n\nThose from Wesleyan, Tufts, and Massachusetts, remaining, revised the Commons Club constitution, providing for compulsory adherence to the wide open membership policies of the original Wesleyan Commons Club. The revised Commons Clubs secured the ratification of their more strict democratic constitution by the Hobart chapter and by the nominally-existing but really war-casualty St. Lawrence chapter, and with the three convention stand-patters: Wesleyan, Tufts, and Massachusetts; carried on as the National Federation of Commons Clubs. By 1928 all the remaining chapters had withdrawn from the Federation and it died.\n\nWhile the National Federation of Commons Clubs, as such, passed into limbo because of the indifference of the members following World War I, the Commons Club movement is still present on many campuses of the United States. Due to the zealous extension activities of the Federation's members up to 1917, the Commons Club idea was spread widely.\n\nThe most important transplanting of this seed was in the formation of the American Association of Commons Clubs (AACC), while never actually a formal part of the federation, it is an historical descendant of it. The seed of the idea was carried to the campus of Denison University as early as 1914, during the extension campaign, and was harbored there. The resultant local Denison Commons Club was assisted by literature of the federation and by the Allegheny College chapter, at the time of its formation in 1916-17, and again in 1920 by the Federation officers, just prior to the completion of a movement at Denison University to organize a union of local Commons Clubs of the Midwest. Founded as a \"non-fraternity\" (but never anti-fraternity) organization, the Denison Commons Club sought to make available to all unaffiliated male students the advantages of fraternity life—which tended to be restricted to an exclusive segment of the campus. During the fall and winter of 1916, a group consisting of interested men met to develop an organization to provide social advantages to unaffiliated men. The President of Denison, C.W. Chamberlain, offered his support to the group. J. Thomas Allison was elected chairman, and those interested in forming an organization signed their names to a list. J. Leslie Putnam, J.T. Allison, and George B. Cressey were appointed to draw up a constitution.\n\nThe ideals for which the chapters strove were Democracy, Brotherhood, University First, Open Door, and non-Greek but not anti-Greek. Under these ideals, there were no membership restrictions based on race, creed or religion. All unaffiliated male students in good standing on campus were eligible for membership. The membership always included a wide variety of racial, national and religious—as well as social and economic—backgrounds. In line with the \"Open Door\" policy and the principles of democracy, no more than a 50 percent vote was required to elect a man to membership or qualified Pledges to Active status and entitled them to the ritual. The right to select members was thus recognized, but it was not carried to the extreme of a \"blackball\" system. Unlike most other fraternities, it took a majority vote to deny membership. The \"Open Door\" swung out as well as in, for a man could leave if he found that he did not fit in with the group or wished to join another fraternity, however, each officer took an oath not to exercise that right during his term of office. The Denison Commons Club strove to give as many men as possible the influence of fraternity life, and looked to what it could do for the man, not what he could do for the Commons Club. The Denison Commons Club was known for its inclusiveness from its very beginnings. Many of its members were minorities, bi-racial or otherwise disenfranchised members of society.\n\nAt a convention held in 1921 on April 22 and 23 in Granville, Ohio, delegates from the commons clubs of Denison University, Ohio University, and Hillsdale College met for the express purpose of forming a new national organization. The official delegates who gathered for this purpose were T.V. Caulkins, Jr., and D.S. Cowles of the Denison Commons Club; Dennis West and W.V. Wilkerson of the Ohio University Commons Club; and Clinton Douglas and L.L. Latham of the Hillsdale College Commons Club. The Ohio Wesleyan group decided not to attend. The new organization was known official as the American Association of Commons Clubs. The new organization, commonly known as the American Commons Club, was an American letter fraternity for men without restrictions as to race, creed, or color. The American Association was augmented by a chapter at Wabash College, which was a remnant of a former Federation chapter there.\n\nAll chapters active prior to World War II succeeded in resuming operation after the war. The two in Colorado, however, were lost in 1948 and 1956. One new chapter was installed in 1949, but after a few years became weak and was asked for its charter in 1961. Many felt the Commons Club movement lost its relevance and withered in the more liberal climate of student life after World War II. With the withdrawal in 1963 of the Cincinnati Chapter, which had long been active in the Association, the remaining chapters at Denison and Adrian felt it futile to maintain a national organization with just two chapters. Accordingly, at a Special Convention held at Adrian April 4, 1964, the delegates voted unanimously to suspend national operation as of June 15. By 1964 only the founding chapter at Denison University remained, and in 1969 the American Association of Commons Clubs became an organization of only alumni while the active chapter became a member of Delta Chi national fraternity. At the time of the suspension of the Association, the national officers then current were designated as a permanent Executive Committee to act in the interests of the Association in all matters regarding protection and use of insignia, maintenance of records, disposition of assets, and other matters. These officers included the following: Allan M. Dewey (Denison '37), President; Edward G. Voss (Denison '50), General Secretary; R.A. Wiley (Adrian '50) Treasurer; and John N. Miller (Denison '54), Editor. A complete file of Association Convention proceedings, bulletins, handbooks, mimeographed documents, and publications, including The American Commoner, is deposited in the archives of the William Howard Doane Library at Denison.\n\nIn 1989, a new Commons Club was formed at Indiana University with the support of the alumni of the AACC. It spread to other Midwestern campuses and continues the Commons Club tradition.\n\nThe Allegheny College Commons Club started in 1903 as the Teutonic Association, an all-male group that included in membership all non-fraternity men. At its 1909 annual banquet, the idea of adding women to the group resulted in the formation of Teutonia Association “…for the purpose of establishing a closer social relationship and opportunity among all non-sorority women of the college. The Wittenberg University Commons Club began as a group that admitted female students as equal members of the organization. When the members of DCC first heard of this, \"The Denison Commoner\" published the following reflection:\nNamed after the first AACC newsletter, Trianon was another “sister” organization to the Commons Club. It formed from the mergers of three college clubs in Ohio and Indiana. First, at the University of Cincinnati, in 1925, Dean Josephine P. Simrall and a group of female students, inspired and encouraged by the Cincinnati Commons Club, created the Campus Club. Next, in November 1926, several women at Butler University formed a Campus Club on their campus. Then, in the spring of 1929, thirty-seven female students at Miami University formed the Miami Girl's Club. Members of the three clubs convened the first National Convention on December 28 and 29, 1929, to form Trianon. In 1957, Trianon dropped open membership. The Trianon Pledge Manual explained, \"The definition of how a girl could become a candidate was changed from a written application to a girl being invited upon a favorable majority vote of active members.\" In 1959, the sorority’s official magazine creased publication. The sorority was still active in the 1960s, but the last known national convention met in 1965 and by 1974, mention of Trianon’s activities in Butler’s yearbooks ceased.\n"}
{"id": "4028383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4028383", "title": "David Elkind", "text": "David Elkind\n\nDavid Elkind (born March 11, 1931) is a Jewish-American child psychologist and author. David and his family relocated to California when he was still a teenager. He studied at the University of California at Los Angeles and obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1952 and Doctorate in Philosophy in 1955. David also earned an honorary doctorate in Science at the Rhode Island College (1987).\n\nA longtime professor at Tufts University, his groundbreaking books — \"The Hurried Child\", \"The Power of Play\" and \"Miseducation\" informed early childhood education professionals of the possible dangers of \"pushing down\" the elementary school curriculum into the very early years of a child's life. By doing so, he argued, teachers and parents alike could lapse into developmentally inappropriate instructional and learning practices that may distort the smooth development of learning. He is associated with the belief of decline of social markers.\n\nDavid Elkind is professor emeritus of Child Development at Tufts University in Medford, Massachusetts. He was formerly professor of Psychology, Psychiatry and Education at the University of Rochester.\n\nElkind obtained his doctorate at UCLA and then spent a year as David Rapaport's research assistant at the Austen Riggs Center in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. In 1964–65 he was a National Science Foundation Senior Postdoctoral Fellow at Piaget's Institut d'Epistemologie Genetique in Geneva. His research has been in the areas of perceptual, cognitive and social development where he has attempted to build upon the research and theory of Jean Piaget.\n\nElkind is a member of some 10 professional organizations, is on the editorial board of numerous scientific journals, and is a consultant to state education departments as well as to government agencies and private foundations. He lectures extensively in the United States, Canada and abroad. He has appeared on The Today Show, The CBS Morning News, Twenty/Twenty, Nightline, Donahue, and The Oprah Winfrey Show. He has been profiled in \"People\" and \"Boston Magazine\". Elkind co-hosted the Lifetime television series, Kids These Days. He is past president of the National Association for the Education of Young Children.\n\nProfessor Elkind's bibliography now numbers close to 500 items and includes research, theoretical articles, book chapters and eighteen books. In addition he has published more popular pieces such as children's stories in \"Jack and Jill\", biographies of famous psychologists in the \"New York Times Magazine\", as well as presentations of his own work in \"Good Housekeeping\", \"Parade\" and \"Psychology Today\". Some of his recent articles include \"Computers and Young Children,\" \"The Authority of the Brain,\" \"The Cosmopolitan School,\" \"On Becoming a Grandfather,\" and \"Thanks for the Memory: The Lasting Value of True Play.\"\n\nPerhaps Elkind is best known for his popular books, \"The Hurried Child\", \"The Power of Play\", \"All Grown Up and No Place to Go\", and \"Miseducation\". \"Grandparenting: Understanding Today's Children\" was published in November 1989. \"Parenting Your Teenager\" and three additional books, \"Images of the Young Child\"; \"Understanding Your Child\" and a third edition of \"A Sympathetic Understanding of the Child: Birth to Sixteen\" appeared in 1993. \"Ties That Stress: The New Family Imbalance\" was published in 1994. A second edition of \"All Grown Up and No Place to Go\" and \"Reinventing Childhood: Raising and Educating Children in a Changing World\" appeared in 1998. A third edition of \"The Hurried Child\" came out 2001 and the 25th anniversary edition was published in 2007 along with his newest book \"The Power of Play: Learning What Comes Naturally\".\n\nElkind was a contributing editor to \"Parents Magazine\".\n\nElkind is married to Debbie Elkind, lives on Cape Cod, and has three sons and four grandchildren. Elkind enjoys sailing and gardening and has recently taken up pottery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30447867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30447867", "title": "Dinorá de Carvalho", "text": "Dinorá de Carvalho\n\nDinorá Gontijo de Carvalho (1 June 1904/5 – 28 February 1980) was a Brazilian pianist, conductor, music educator and composer.\n\nDinorá de Carvalho was born in Uberaba, Minas Gerais, Brazil, and began her study of piano at the Conservatorio Musical in São Paulo at age six with Maria Lacaz Machado and Carlino Crescenzo. She made her debut as a pianist at age seven playing Mozart and Mendelssohn, and later studied with Isidor Philipp in Paris on a Ministry of Culture scholarship. She continued her studies in Brazil with Lamberto Baldi, Martin Brawnvieser, Ernest Mehelich and Camargo Guarnieri.\n\nAfter completing her studies, Carvalho worked as a pianist, composer, conductor and music educator. She became the first woman member of the Brazilian Academy of Music and became the first woman Brazilian maestro, founding an all-woman orchestra, the Orquestra Feminina de São Paulo. Her work \"Missa Profundis\" received first prize for Best Vocal Work of 1977 from the Associação Paulista de Críticos de Arte. She died in São Paulo.\n\nCarvalho composed for solo instruments, chorus, choir and orchestra, chamber ensemble, piano and orchestra, symphony orchestra, theater and ballet. Selected works include:\n"}
{"id": "6607149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6607149", "title": "Educational program", "text": "Educational program\n\nAn educational program is a program written by the institution or ministry of education which determines the learning progress of each subject in all the stages of formal education.\n\nBesides the primary educational program, some schools use a different educational program written by another source which uses different learning progress - either in some subjects, such as the Mofet educational program in Israel or in all subjects, such as special education.\n\nEducational programs help people decide if they are going to be a teacher or not. They're mostly in high schools called C4 program. C4 programs help students in high schools decide what they are going to be before they get to college, so they do not waste their time taking classes they do not need in college or wasting their parents' money on classes and books they do not need.\n\n"}
{"id": "26957580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26957580", "title": "Fahr Monastery", "text": "Fahr Monastery\n\nFahr Monastery, () is a Benedictine monastery of nuns located in the Swiss municipality of Würenlos in the canton of Aargau. Located in different cantons, Einsiedeln Abbey and Fahr Monastery form a double monastery, ruled by the Abbot of Einsiedeln. Fahr and Einsiedeln are perhaps the only such community still to exist.\n\nThe monastery historically was located in an exclave of the canton of Aargau within the municipality of Unterengstringen in the canton of Zürich in the Limmat Valley. The nuns' monastery had not been part of a political municipality, although some administrative tasks have been carried out by the Würenlos authorities since the 19th century and the nuns were always allowed to fulfill their political rights (voting, etc.) in Würenlos. Since 1 January 2008 Fahr Monastery has been a part of Würenlos. The nunnery has its own postal code, 8109 Kloster Fahr.\n\nThe monastery is first mentioned in AD 1130 as \"Vare\" (an old term used for \"ferry\"). The lands were donated by the House of Regensberg. On 22 January 1130 Lütold II and his son Lütold III and his wife Judenta handed over lands and estates on the shore of the Limmat around Weiningen and Unterengstringen-Oberengstringen to the Einsiedeln Abbey to establish a Benedictine monastery for nuns. The Chapel of St. Nicholas already stood on the land. This may have been connected with the death of Lütold I in 1088 while engaged in battle against the forces of the Abbey of Einsiedeln. The monastery was dedicated to Our Lady. In addition to the medieval St. Nikolaus-Kapelle (Saint Nicholas chapel), built around 10th century AD and now called \"St. Anna-Kapelle\", and the late medieval church of the monastery, the parish church of Weiningen were subordinated to the monastery.\n\nFrom the very beginning, the nunnery has been ruled by the Abbot of Einsiedeln; the nuns are governed in their daily life by a prioress appointed by the abbot. The bailiwick rights were first held by the Regensberg family, after 1306 by the citizens of the municipality of Zürich, and from 1434 to 1798 by the Meyer von Knonau family.\n\nAround 1530 the monastery was suppressed during the Reformation in Zürich, but it was reopened in 1576.\nAn era of prosperity during the 17th century led to a brisk program of construction: In 1678 the tavern \"Zu den zwei Raben\" (\"Two Ravens\", the emblem of Einsiedeln Abbey) was built; from 1685 to 1696 the cloister and church tower were renovated; in 1703/04 a new refectory was designed by Johann Moosbrugger; and a house for the chaplain was erected in 1730/34. From 1743 to 1746 the monastery's church was decorated with frescoes by the Torricelli brothers.\n\nIn dissolving the old County (\"Grafschaft\") of Baden in 1803, the cantons of Zurich and Aargau established an exclave of Aargau within the canton of Zürich, for the former lands of the monastery. Formerly part of the Bishopric of Constance, the monastery has been part of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Basel since 1828. The canton of Aargau chose in 1841 to close all monasteries within its territory, but this was reversed in 1843 for women's monasteries. The negotiations between Einsiedeln Abbey and the cantonal authorities regarding assets and authority were completed nearly 90 years later, in 1932. At that point Aargau granted full autonomy to the monastic community.\n\nDuring World War II, from November 1943 to February 1944, 11 female Jewish refugees lived secretly in the cloister; unfortunately they had to leave for an unknown destination when the school was opened.\nOn 1 February 1944, the monastery established a \"Bäuerinnenschule\", i.e. an agricultural school for women.\n\nOn 1 January 2008 the monastery was incorporated into the municipality of Würenlos, happening over a century after the municipality's initial attempts to absorb the 1.48-hectare area of the monastery.\n\nOn 22 January 2009 the former Abbot of Einsiedeln, Dom Martin Werlen, O.S.B., presented the nuns a new community seal, thereby indicating that the nuns were in full control of the business affairs of their monastery.\n\nEnd of 2014 the women's agricultural school (\"Bäuerinnenschule\") had to close for financial reason. At the same time the overall renovation of the monastery's buildings that were built between 1689 and 1746 started. The interior decoration, the windows and electric cables will be renewed to 2016, as well as the living cells of the sisters will be equipped with hot water. As the residential wing was the focus of the renovation, the sisters lived in the former peasant school. Primarily, the estimated total cost of CHF 21 million will ensure fire prevention and include energetically improvements to meet statutory requirements.\n\nAs of April 2010, there were 26 nuns (7 in 1873, 33 in 2000) living at the monastery. Silja Walter (Sister Maria Hedwig, O.S.B.) (1919–2011), a renowned novelist, was the most prominent member of the community.\nOn 23 April 2016 the \"Silja-Walter-Raum\" was inaugurated. Sister Maria Hedwig's literal work is inextricably linked to the nunnery as she lived for over 60 years in the Benedictine community. During this time, Silja Walter wrote most of her literary work that included lyrics, mystery plays and theatre. After the renovation of the provost, the former office of the provost with its beautiful stucco ceiling was chosen to establish a small museum. It contains numerous texts, film, audio and photographic documents, as well as excerpts from the radio interview from 1982, when Silja Walter and her brother, Otto F. Walter, another renowned Swiss writer, recorded the interview tape \"Eine Insel\" (An Island). But also personal objects like the nun's typewriter are exhibited, and also the lesser known drawings and painting of the artist. The monastery would appeal to people who knew the artist's work, but also for the younger generation, said Prioress Irene during an interview. For now, the room will be open every last Sunday of the month after the worship service from approximately 10:45 to 14:00. Admission is free.\n\nOn memorial of Saint Wiborada – the first (Swiss) woman who was ever canonized by the Roman Catholic Church – on 2 May 2016 started a two months pilgrimage of eight respectively seven Fahr nuns from Wiborada's former home St. Gallen to Rome; the project group \"Kirche mit*\" insists on more rights for the Catholic woman. Along their travel to the Vatican, the group of pilgrims was accompanied on stages by other women right's activists. By mid-May 2016 around 650 people (approximately one fifth men) joined for at least one day's stage, and there are 400 more registrations for the final section of the pilgrimage in Rome. Whether the Pope will grant an audience to the group of pilgrims on 2 July, the day of the Visitation, was uncertain; actually he then should be on vacation.\n\nSister Beatrice Beerli (born 1947) has the responsibility over the monastery gardens for over 20 years. In the peasant school (\"Bäuerinnenschule\") she headed the module horticulture. Since the closure of the school in July 2013, she taught her knowledge on occasion of group tours in the multi-award-winning Fahr gardens. Besides herbs, teas, syrup or herb salt, the sisters also sell tinctures from the herbs in their monastery shop. Vegetables are grown both for their own use as well as for the monastery's pilgrim hostel.\n\nViticulture played, for centuries, an important role in the monastic culture. Even in the deed of donation of 22 January 1130, a vineyard was mentioned. In the Middle Ages the cultivation and trade in wine was significant and frequently documented. Cultivation and wine pressing are part of the historic tradition, and the present vineyards comprise 4.2 hectares on the \"Wingert\" hill just above the monastery in the municipality of Unterengstringen and on monastic property in Weiningen where selected grape varieties are grown: Riesling-Sylvaner, Pinor Noir, Pinot Gris, Regent and Dornfelder. With the young vines Zweigelt, Malbec and Cabernet Sauvignon, the historic wine selection was expanded. The well-known wine estate is managed by the nuns and around 30 external employees.\n\nAgricultural products made by the nunnery also include liquors and honey, and a variety of other products among them fruits, vegetables, herbs, etc. The monastic community sells its products in a shop (from Monday to Saturday) situated in the monastery and provides a restaurant (from Wednesday to Sunday) in the former pilgrim's hostel, built in 1678 AD. The Chapel of St. Anna is a popular site for weddings.\n\nThe monastery was also renowned for its agricultural school for women (\"Bäuerinnenschule\") that was established in 1944, but had to be closed in January 2015 for economical reasons and because the few nuns were no longer able to ensure the high quality of the 20-weeks courses for young women.\n\nFrom spring 2016, the rooms of the convent are also opened for civil marriages which performs the \"Zivilstandsamt Wettingen\" on Friday afternoons from May to September: \"Abtstube\" for up to 10 people, and the \"Vier Jahreszeiten\" room for up to 20 people, regardless of religion, creed and nationality.\n\nFor tourists, Fahr Monastery is a highlight in the Limmat Valley and a popular stop for hikers and bikers along the Limmat.\n\nKloster Fahr is listed in the Swiss inventory of cultural property of national and regional significance as a \"Class A\" object of national importance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35921591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35921591", "title": "Global Alliance of Leading-Edge Schools", "text": "Global Alliance of Leading-Edge Schools\n\nThe Global Alliance of Leading-Edge Schools (Abbreviation: GALES) is an informal organization of leading preparatory and secondary schools from around the world. It was initiated in the year 2010. All the schools are among the top institutions in their respective countries. The Global Alliance of Leading-Edge Schools have discussions which aim to bring together a group of students who want to look beyond the parochial concerns of their own schools and national associations, and to talk through some key issues facing education, the world, and themselves as educational leaders.\n\n\nGALES' first summit, titled TiltShift, was held at Singapore's Raffles Institution (RI), from June 12, 2011 to June 18, 2011, where members of the organization discussed on aspects pertaining to the popular topic of global warming.\n\nOn June 14, 2011, a conference, in collaboration with OnePeople.sg, on the aspects of racial harmony, was organized by GALES and held in Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "1524483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524483", "title": "Helen Berman", "text": "Helen Berman\n\nHelen Berman (; born 6 April 1936) is a Dutch-Israeli visual artist. She was a textile designer in the 1960s and has been a painter and occasionally an art educator since the 1970s. She is well known in Israel and has exhibited also in Germany and the Netherlands. She created modern and postmodern art and has engaged in realistic impressionism and lyrical abstract expressionism.\n\nHelen Berman was born in Amsterdam and as a young girl survived the Holocaust. She was trained as a textile designer at the Design Academy Eindhoven. While at the academy, she took extracurricular coursework in the free arts with Kees Bol and Jan Gregoor. After her graduation in 1960, Helen Berman designed textiles for several companies. Some of her designs were awarded prizes and publications in professional magazines.\n\nDuring the seventies, Berman studied painting and drawing with Thierry Veltman, graduating with a teaching degree. In 1978, she immigrated to Israel, where she continued to refine her style. During a decade-long residence in Jaffa, she became part of the local artists' community and a member of the Israel Painters and Sculptors Association. Since 1998, she has been painting and exhibiting from her studio in Tel Mond.\n"}
{"id": "54283448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54283448", "title": "Hello English", "text": "Hello English\n\nHello English is an English language-learning application, which allows users to learn the English language through interactive modules.\nAs of January, 2017, the application has over 15 million downloads. It functions on a freemium pricing model. The app is available on Android, iOS, Windows and Web.\n\nHello English was launched in October 2014 by CultureAlley. It is a tech startup co-founded by Nishant Patni, an alumnus of IIT Bombay and Kellogg School of Management along with Pranshu Patni, an alumnus of NMIMS, back in December 2012. It runs under Jaipur based Intap Labs Private Limited.\n\nThe platform raised $6.5 million in Series-A funding led by New York-based venture capital firm Tiger Global Management in March, 2015. The other participants included Kae Capital (led by Sasha Mirchandani) and 500 Startups, California. Other notable angel investors include Rajan Anandan and Sunil Kalra. In 2013, the platform had also previously raised undisclosed amount of funding from Kae Capital.\nThe application consists of 475 interactive lessons and games associated with reading, writing, speaking, and listening and has gamification mechanics in the app. It has a bilingual dictionary, available in 22 languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26893150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26893150", "title": "Higher Education Army Institute", "text": "Higher Education Army Institute\n\nThe \"Higher Education Army Institute\" (Spanish: \"Instituto de Educación Superior del Ejército\". IESE) is an Argentine university founded in 1986 and officially in 1990 that belongs to the Argentine Army and which is responsible for the technical education of this force.\n\nIt was created on January 1, 1986 in order to coordinate all the activities of the different academic institutions of the Argentine Army. It became a National University in 1990 by the Argentine Law 17.778.\n\nThe Institute encompass three education organizations associated with the Argentine Army: The War Academy, The Higher Technical School, and The Military High School.\n\nSince 1993 the University is open to non-military students.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7649875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7649875", "title": "History Aptitude Test", "text": "History Aptitude Test\n\nThe History Aptitude Test (HAT) is a standardized test used as part of the admissions process to Oxford University for undergraduates applying to read History, or a subject including history, for example English with History.\n\nThe two-hour test is currently only employed by Oxford University, though other universities are considering adopting a similar examination as part of admissions.\n\nIn 2004 John Dunford, the general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association complained that the language used in the test could be seen as favouring those from independent schools.\n"}
{"id": "7501409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7501409", "title": "Institute for Personal Robots in Education", "text": "Institute for Personal Robots in Education\n\nInstitute for Personal Robots in Education (IPRE) was initiated by a $1 million grant from Microsoft Research to Bryn Mawr College and the Georgia Institute of Technology and announced in July 2006. IPRE is designing introductory computer science curricula centered on a Personal Robot. Their vision is that each student will purchase a small, inexpensive robot at the bookstore which they will use throughout their classes in exploring computer science. The hope is that the robot will cost about as much as a textbook. IPRE will develop the hardware, software, and curricular materials for these courses.\n\nThe software being developed for introductory computer science courses is called Myro, short for My Robot, and is based in part on Pyro from Python Robotics. Myro is an interface to communicate with robots. It is designed to be used through a number of computer languages, include Python, Ruby, and Scheme.\n\nThe robot currently being used is the Scribbler from Parallax, Inc. (company) augmented with a small computer board, called the Fluke. The Fluke contains Bluetooth and a camera. This allows any robot that has a serial interface to be controlled through the low-cost Fluke.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39538105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39538105", "title": "International Turkmen-Turkish University", "text": "International Turkmen-Turkish University\n\nInternational Turkmen-Turkish University (, , abbreviated as ITTU) is a university located in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan. The University was established in 1994.\n\nInternational Turkmen-Turkish University was established in connection with the establishment of close cooperation between Turkey and Turkmenistan in 1994.\n\nMay 30, 2013, held a groundbreaking ceremony for the new building complex of the International Turkmen-Turkish University, with the participation of President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov and Turkey President Abdullah Gul. It was built in Keshi area of Ashgabat and amenities were designed to host 3500 students.\n\nAs of August 1, 2016, the International Turkmen-Turkish University is changed by name to Oguz Khan University of Engineering Technologies.\n\n\nIn 2003, International Turkmen-Turkish University created the football club HTTU Aşgabat, competing in various competitions among students, and then among professionals. HTTU Aşgabat has won three titles in Turkmenistan Higher League. In 2010 HTTU Aşgabat becomes CIS Cup semi-finalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "44838429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44838429", "title": "Jason Lindsey", "text": "Jason Lindsey\n\nJason Lindsey aka \"Mr. Science\" is an award-winning science educator, author, meteorologist, and one of only seven STEM Certified Master Trainers in America. Lindsey produces and hosts a popular television segment called Hooked on Science. Each year, he performs hands-on science experiments at hundreds of schools and community events throughout the United States. His goal is to make kids inquisitive about the world around them and to get them to develop a long-term interest in science and math. Jason can also be seen forecasting the weather on several local television stations across the US as a freelance broadcast meteorologist. In recent years he has only been seen on WPSD, a television station in Paducah, KY and WEHT, a television station in Evansville, IN. Jason can also frequently be seen performing science experiments on NBC's Today Show. \n"}
{"id": "58263985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58263985", "title": "Julius Schniewind", "text": "Julius Schniewind\n\nJulius Schniewind (28 May 1883 - 7 September 1948) was a German . He came to prominence in the 1930s as a leader of the Confessing Church (\"Bekennende Kirche\"), which can be seen as a movement within German Protestantism that arose during the Nazi years in opposition to government-sponsored efforts to unify all Protestant churches into a single pro-Nazi Protestant Reich Church.\n\nJulius Daniel Schniewind was born in Elberfeld, a town in the Ruhr region which had emerged during the nineteenth century as a major centre for the textiles industry, and which has subsequently been subsumed into Wuppertal. His father, also called Julius Schniewind (1847-1902) worked in the silk business and was a partner in the Elbersfeld-based firm \"H. E. Schniewind\". His grandfather, Heinrich Ernst Schniewind (1813-1895), had also been a partner in the family firm, and a prominent member of the local business community. His mother, born Emmi Elisabeth Burchard (1854–1924), was from Hamburg, a daughter of a banker originally from Bremen called Friedrich Wilhelm Burchard (1824–92). His childhood was shaped by a confident spirit of religious piety within the family. He attended the in Elberfeld and then moved on to study Lutheran Theology at Bonn, Halle, Berlin und Marburg between 1901 and 1906. His tutors included , Karl Heim (1874-1958) and Friedrich Loofs (1858-1928). He also became, according to at least one major source, the most significant of the students of Martin Kähler (1835-1912).\n\nIn 1910 he received his Licentiate (higher degree) at Halle for a piece of work on the writings and preaching of Paul the Apostle (\"Die Begriffe Wort und Evangelium bei Paulus\"). He remained at Halle, teaching New Testament studies, till 1914. That year he received his habilitation (degree) for a piece of work on parallel pericopes for Luke and John (\"Die Parallelperikopen bei Lukas und Johannes\"). His academic progress was interrupted during at least a part of the First World War, when Schniewind became a volunteer field chaplain. He was awarded the Iron Cross 2nd Class (\"Eisernes Kreuz 2. Klasse\").\n\nJulius Schniewind married Anna Alice Wanda Eveline Countess of Keyserling (1884-1955) at Elberfeld on 7 May 1919. His bride came from Courland. The marriage was followed by the births of the couple's two sons. \n\nIn 1919 Schniewind was appointed to a provisional extraordinary professorship which in 1921 became a regular extraordinary professorship with a full teaching contract covering New Testament studies, Patristic Philology and Palaeography. The university awarded him a doctorate in theology in 1925. The next year he was appointed to the teaching chair in New Testament studies.\n\nHe moved in 1927 when he received a in New Testament studies at the University of Greifswald in the extreme north of the country. Two years later he moved again, this time accepting an offer from the University of Königsberg where he was in regular (and sometimes disputatious) contact with a younger generation of notable theologians such as Günther Bornkamm, Hans Iwand and Martin Noth.\n\nIn 1933 the Nazis took power, following several years during which politics had become progressively more polarised and then gridlocked. The new government lost no time in transforming Germany into a one-party dictatorship. In April 1933 leading protestant churchmen were persuaded to draft a new constitution for the \"German Evangelical Church\", which was part of a government plan for a state controlled protestant church. The idea was not one that sat comfortably with German tradition, and many protestant theologians responded by creating the Confessing Church (\"Bekennende Kirche\") movement, Actively backed by Bornkamm and Iwand, Schniewind took a lead in the struggle to establish the Confessing Church in East Prussia. They managed to involve the Bahnauer Fraternity. The Theology faculty at Königsberg became a power house for theological training on behalf of the Confessing Church. Schniewind joined the Pfarrernotbund (\"loosely \"Emergency League of Pastors\"\").\n\nAs a result of his activities involving the Confessing Church and his openly hostile attitude to the Nazi regime, in 1935 Schniewind was expelled from the University of Königsberg. He had made a public attack on the East Prussian Gauleiter, Erich Koch. He was sent to Kiel where, as before, he engaged actively with the Confessing Church. Meanwhile relations between the Confessing church and the more mainstream regional protestant churches had broken down. Professors involved with the Confessing Church had been forbidden from setting exams for theology students since February 1935. Schniewind continued to profess his support for the Confessing Church and refused to set exams on behalf of the regional churches. In 1936, because of his continuing refusal to comply with the requirements of the authorities in Kiel, he was sent away after a few months. He accepted an invitation to return to Halle. He nevertheless persisted with his open commitment to the Confessing Church. Along with he became a leader of the student religious community.\n\nIn March 1937 Schniewind was removed from his university post and early in 1938 the authorities launched a criminal investigation case into his involvement with the Confessing Church. He was obliged to take an 80% salary cut. Many sources assume or imply that he remained deprived of his professorship till war ended in May 1945, but recent investigation of personnel records retained in the archives at the University of Halle has indicated that Schniewind's professorship was quietly restored in some form later in 1938. There is no report of the criminal case having reached the stage of a prosecution. According to one source, alongside his lecturing activities on behalf of the Confessing Church, he was able to continue \"mentoring his students privately\". After 1939 he combined his activities at the university with work as a military-hospital chaplain.\n\nAs the war ended, the western two thirds of Germany was divided into zones of military occupation. The central portion, including Halle, was now administered as the Soviet occupation zone. The Ruhr region, where he had been born and lived as a young man became part of the British occupation zone. Schniewind received invitations to take up university appointments from Münster, Mainz and Berlin, but he turned them down. If his employment status at the University of Halle had been unclear before 1945, it now became a matter of public record, as he was restored to a full professorship. As a lecturer at the university and church provost in the Halle-Merseburg region he played a decisive role in a revival of public Christian awareness and the life of the church in Halle and in the Ecclesiastical Province of Saxony more widely.\n\nJulius Schniewind died in Halle aged 65.\n\nSchniewind is regarded as the most important student of Martin Kähler (1835-1912). He was also influenced by Hermann Cremer, Adolf Schlatter and Søren Kierkegaard. He understood bible theology as the Word of God, deeply rooted in the Old Testament. In that respect he decisively stood apart from the ranks of the liberal theologians from Ferdinand Christian Baur to Adolf von Harnack. Schniewind's programme of \"spiritual renewal\" created a happy unity out of the frequently problematic relationship between scriptural belief and historical-critical biblical exegesis.\n\nAt the same time, his first interest was in the New Testament and in his pastoral duties. (\"Others write books. I must be there for my students.\") Recognition of the value of religious scholarship and form criticism never prevented Schniewind from stressing in his elaboration of the Words of Christ the \"signs of the times\". In that respect he applied a pauline interpretation of National Socialism as nothing less than the Wrath of God. With regard to the state's attempts to control the church, he would have endorsed Dietrich Bonhoeffer's judgement that Protestantism without the Confessing Church would amount to a denial of the Truth of the Gospel. During the Nazi years Julius Schniewind exercised a huge influence over his students. He uncompromisingly rejected National Socialist ideology, and sought to combine subjective religious experience with the objectivity of biblical witness.\n"}
{"id": "31783421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31783421", "title": "Korovuto College", "text": "Korovuto College\n\nKorovuto College is an educational institution funded privately and publicly by the committee of the school. It is located in a suburban area of Fiji's international town, Nadi. The school has about 700 students and 50 staff members. Most students are from Nadi, but some come from neighbouring cities such as Lautoka, and most students are Indo-Fijians. The institution provides students with knowledge from form 1 to form 7, and has been extended to a vocational center. Primary education can be gained from the neighbouring primary school. It is located on 22 acres of land.\n\nKorovuto College is one of the top schools in Fiji in terms of athletics, exam results, and social events. Extracurricular activities inform students on how to carry out some tasks such as the Arbor Day celebration, religious gatherings, and international events. Each year, the school hosts an annual concert which many people attend.\n\nThe founder of the school was late Sukhai Mahajan, father of late RAM Karan, Trustee of Korovuto who donated the land for the school The very first principal of Korovuto College was Mr Mahendra Kumar (1976 -1980). Korovuto College's principals in recent years have been Mr. Sateesh Sudhakar, Mr. Chettiar, Mrs. Anita Gounder, and currently, Mr. Sanjesh Chandra. The vice principal is Mr. Chettiar and the assistant principal is Mr. Solomone Ravasakula. Other Principals were Ganesh Prasad, Shris Chand, Jai Karan. There are two form 1 and twos, three forms 3-6, and one form 7. (The school emerged as Korovuto Junior Secondary School from Korovuto Primary School in 1976. Classes 7&8 converted to Forms 1&2 and then to Forms 3&4. Then it extended to Forms 5&6. Gradually Form 7 commenced at the school and the name was changed from secondary to college.\n\nThe school's motto is \"Truth is Victory.\" The mission of the school is to provide a quality education that enables one to fit into the dynamic society, and to promote and support the learning process to develop the physical, social, intellectual and spiritual well-being of students for national development and international acceptance.\n"}
{"id": "18365276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18365276", "title": "Leslie P. Kaelbling", "text": "Leslie P. Kaelbling\n\nLeslie Pack Kaelbling is an American roboticist and the Panasonic Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She is widely recognized for adapting partially observable Markov decision process from operations research for application in artificial intelligence and robotics. Kaelbling received the IJCAI Computers and Thought Award in 1997 for applying reinforcement learning to embedded control systems and developing programming tools for robot navigation. In 2000, she was elected as a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence.\n\nKaelbling received an A. B. in Philosophy in 1983 and a Ph. D. in Computer Science in 1990, both from Stanford University. During this time she was also affiliated with the Center for the Study of Language and Information. She then worked at SRI International and the affiliated robotics spin-off Teleos Research before joining the faculty at Brown University. She left Brown in 1999 to join the faculty at MIT. Her research focuses on decision-making under uncertainty, machine learning, and sensing with applications to robotics.\n\nIn the spring of 2000, she and two-thirds of the editorial board of the Kluwer-owned journal \"Machine Learning\" resigned in protest to its pay-to-access archives with simultaneously limited financial compensation for authors. Kaelbling co-founded and served as the first editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Machine Learning Research\", a peer-reviewed open access journal on the same topics which allows researchers to publish articles for free and retain copyright with its archives freely available online. In response to the mass resignation, Kluwer changed their publishing policy to allow authors to self-archive their papers online after peer-review. Kaelbling responded that this policy was reasonable and would have made the creation of an alternative journal unnecessary, but the editorial board members had made it clear they wanted such a policy and it was only after the threat of resignations and the actual founding of \"JMLR\" that the publishing policy finally changed.\n\n"}
{"id": "23241411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23241411", "title": "Lewisham Academy of Music", "text": "Lewisham Academy of Music\n\nThe Lewisham Academy of Music was a walk-in music academy which operated in London from 1980 to 2000.\n\nThe Academy was established by music teacher, Bruce Cole and Jack Balchin, musical instigator in 1980 as a resource centre for young people in South East London. Marion Fudger joined staff soon after beginning. Fitzroy King became involved as a staff member on a voluntary basis with his connections to the local black community. John Hunt and Denise --- were the first members of the academy. Youth and community music organisation Community Music (CM) (founded by Dave O'Donnell and John Stevens (drummer)) held regular music workshops there during the 1980s.\n\nIt was located in the old coroners courtand morgue in Watson Street in Deptford, South-East London. The Lewisham Academy of Music evolved through the early days and developed the class rooms as money allowed. Money in the early days came from The Combination at the Albany Empire that umbrellered the project to start the ball rolling.Funding was then pursued with aid from the Albany and a council of management that was established for guidance for the project once it was proven of value to the community. The premises were eventually taken over by Midi Music Company after the collapse of funding sources brought the life of the Academy to an end.\n\nThe Academy includes M People percussionist Shovell as one of its alumni (he is also a patron of the Midi Music Company) and television composer Jeffrey Scott Pearson.\n\nCharles Haywood was the original drum tutor.Among the other drum teachers who taught at various times at the Academy were Gary Wallis (The Truth, Pink Floyd, Il Divo) Steve White (Paul Weller, Jon Lord, The Players)\n"}
{"id": "42082768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42082768", "title": "List of archives in Greece", "text": "List of archives in Greece\n\nThis is list of archives in Greece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55191175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55191175", "title": "Lucienne Peiry", "text": "Lucienne Peiry\n\nLucienne Peiry, born in Lausanne on September 4, 1961, holds a doctorate (PhD) in the history of art; she is a specialist in Outsider Art (\"Art Brut\"), an exhibition curator, a lecturer and the author of several publications. She gives lectures in both Switzerland and elsewhere in Europe, and has been teaching Outsider Art at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL, College of Humanities) in Lausanne since 2010. Since 2016, she has also been teaching at the University of Lausanne (Department of Social and Political Sciences\n\nBrought up in the canton of Fribourg, in 1996 Lucienne Peiry was the first woman to obtain a Phd in the History of Art in Lausanne (capital of Switzerland's canton of Vaud). Her thesis was the first to be devoted to \"Art Brut\" and to the history of the collection that Jean Dubuffet instigated. It was initially published by Flammarion (Paris) as \"L'Art Brut,\" (1997, new editions 1999, 2001, 2006, 2010; English translation 2001, new edition 2006; German translation 2005; Chinese translation 2015); an enlarged and updated version by Flammarion appeared in 2016 (400 pp, 500 illus.).\n\nFormerly, Lucienne Peiry was a journalist with Radio suisse romande (French language radio broadcasts) and, at the same time, a freelance exhibition curator (1987–2001). In 2001, she took over the direction of Lausanne's Collection de l'art brut from . In that position, she set up a number of temporary exhibitions and added to the museum's holdings by discovering Outsider Art creators in Switzerland and in various other countries of Europe, as well as in notably India, Japan, China and Benin.\n\nThe author of several works and articles on Outsider Art, Lucienne Peiry has also directed numerous publications and exhibition catalogues for the museum, including the cult book \"Collection de l'Art Brut, Lausanne,\" published by Flammarion-Skira of Paris in 2012 (French, English, German).\n\nLucienne Peiry has encouraged the museum to produce or coproduce (with the French filmmaker Philippe Lespinasse) several documentaries on Outsider Art creators. In 2001 she launched a teaching program for the Collection de l'Art Brut (young persons guided tours, activities books, workshops, publications), which she continued to develop.\n\nIn 2003, she organized an exhibition on Louis Soutter (title: \"Louis Soutter et la musique\"), jointly with the Basel Museum of Art and the Cantonal Museum of Fine Art Lausanne. Christian Zacharias, director of the Lausanne Chamber Orchestra (OCL) participated in the project. She set up various partnerships with other Swiss cultural institutions, including the Théâtre de Vidy in Lausanne, the Museum of Art and History in Fribourg, and Lausanne's Petit Théâtre.\n\nAppointed Director of Research and International Relations for the Collection de l'Art Brut in 2012, Lucienne Peiry gave up her position as museum director. She is now in charge of promoting the Lausanne museum abroad (exhibitions, lectures) and of seeking out new Outsider Art creators throughout the world (Europe, Asia, Africa, and more). She encourages studies on the creators she discovers, and on behalf of new publications and documentary films. She also lends advice to students and researchers, being called upon as an expert for works on Outsider Art at various universities (including the \"hautes écoles\") in Switzerland and abroad.\n\nSince 2012, she has also kept up a monthly artistic contribution for the RTS (Radio Télévision Suisse) broadcasting company, on behalf of their \"A vous de jouer\" (your turn to play) program on Espace 2.\n\nLucienne Peiry curated an exhibition on the encyclopedic art work of (\"The Poetic Labyrinth of Armand Schulthess\") at Neuchâtel's Centre Dürrenmatt in 2014, and again at Lugano's Museo cantonale d'Arte in 2016. Two trilingual exhibition catalogues were published for the two events.\n\nIn 2017 she curated the show \"Inextricabilia, Enchevêtrements magiques\" (Inextricabilia – Magical Mesh) at the maison rouge in Paris: in addition to the show's catalogue, many articles and newspaper accounts appeared, together with a major analysis by the art historian Valérie Arconati in the French daily newspaper \"Libération\". One year later she is curator of an exhibition about Curzio Di Giovanni in Lausanne (HEP) which gathers around 80 drawings shown for the first time to the public.\n\nLucienne Peiry holds a website called Notes d'Art Brut.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43951900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43951900", "title": "Mario Sergio Cortella", "text": "Mario Sergio Cortella\n\nMario Sergio Cortella (b. March 5, 1954) is a Brazilian writer, educator and speaker. He is professor of theological philosophy at PUC-SP.\n\nHe was born in Londrina, Paraná. In 1973/1974 he experienced the monastic life in a convent of the Discalced Carmelite Order, but abandoned the prospect of becoming a monk for an academic career. He graduated in 1975 at the Faculty of Philosophy our Lady Mediatrix. In 1989 he completed his master's degree in education from the Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo (PUC-SP), under the guidance of , and in 1997, under the guidance of Paulo Freire, completed his doctorate in education from PUC-SP.\n\nHe is a full professor in the Department of Theology and Religious Studies and Graduate Education at PUC-SP, beginning in 1977 and visiting professor at Fundação Dom Cabral since 1997. He was in the GVPEC Fundação Getúlio Vargas between 1998 and 2010.\n\nHe held the post of Municipal Secretary of Education of São Paulo (1991–1992) during the Erundina administration and was a member of CAPES/Education Ministry Technical Scientific Council of Basic Education (2008/2010).\n\nHe hosted the program \"Naughty Dialogues\" on TV PUC, the University Channel program.\n\nCortella has published works in the field of philosophy and education. He is the author, among other works, of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "665138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665138", "title": "Mark Strand", "text": "Mark Strand\n\nMark Strand (April 11, 1934 – November 29, 2014) was a Canadian-born American poet, essayist and translator. He was appointed Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress in 1990 and received the Wallace Stevens Award in 2004. Strand was a professor of English and Comparative Literature at Columbia University from 2005 until his death in 2014.\n\nStrand was born in 1934 at Summerside, Prince Edward Island, Canada. Raised in a secular Jewish family, he spent his early years in North America and much of his adolescence in South and Central America. Strand graduated from Oakwood Friends School in 1951 and in 1957 earned his B.A. from Antioch College in Ohio. He then studied painting under Josef Albers at Yale University, where he earned a B.F.A in 1959. On a U.S.-Italy Fulbright Commission scholarship, Strand studied 19th-century Italian poetry in Florence in 1960–61. He attended the Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa the following year and earned a Master of Arts in 1962. In 1965 he spent a year in Brazil as a Fulbright Lecturer.\n\nIn 1981, Strand was elected a member of The American Academy of Arts and Letters. He served as Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress during the 1990–91 term. In 1997, he left Johns Hopkins University to accept the Andrew MacLeish Distinguished Service Professorship of Social Thought at the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago. From 2005 to his death, Strand taught literature and creative writing at Columbia University, in New York City.\n\nStrand received numerous awards, including a MacArthur Fellowship in 1987 and the 1999 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry, for \"Blizzard of One\".\n\nStrand died of liposarcoma on November 29, 2014, in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nMany of Strand's poems are nostalgic in tone, evoking the bays, fields, boats, and pines of his Prince Edward Island childhood. Strand has been compared to Robert Bly in his use of surrealism, though he attributes the surreal elements in his poems to an admiration of the works of Max Ernst, Giorgio de Chirico, and René Magritte. Strand's poems use plain and concrete language, usually without rhyme or meter. In a 1971 interview, Strand said, \"I feel very much a part of a new international style that has a lot to do with plainness of diction, a certain reliance on surrealist techniques, and a strong narrative element.\"\n\nStrand's academic career took him to various colleges and universities, including:\n\n\n\nStrand has been awarded the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26654407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26654407", "title": "Michael Lally (poet)", "text": "Michael Lally (poet)\n\nMichael Lally (born May 25, 1942) is an American-born poet and the author of twenty-seven books of poetry. He is considered part of the New York School of poetry, which began in the early 1950s and is acknowledged as one of the most influential movements of American poetry. He counts among his major influences the poets Frank O'Hara and William Carlos Williams, as well as writer William Saroyan.\n\nThe youngest of seven in an Irish-American family of policemen, priests, and politicians Lally was born in Orange, New Jersey and raised in South Orange, New Jersey. His poetry and prose moves through and reflects on many of the seminal shifts in American culture from the 1950s forward: the civil rights, gay rights, women’s rights and anti-war movements and his active participation in each. Master of the autobiographical style, his writing charts the internal emotional landscape of the evolving 20th century man.\n\nLally started out playing piano and reading his poetry in coffeehouses and bars in 1959. In 1962 he joined the United States Air Force, where he spent more than four years as an enlisted man, and later used the G.I. Bill to attend the University of Iowa Writers' Workshop. While living in Iowa Lally’s devotion to political reform extended beyond editorials. In the fall of 1968 he actively campaigned for the position of Johnson County Sheriff as part of the Peace and Freedom Party ticket.\n\nIn 1972 he wrote the autobiographical “South Orange Sonnets” which received a New York Poetry Center Discovery Award.\n\nHe moved from New York to Los Angeles in 1982 to find work acting in movies and TV (as Michael David Lally), mostly as a bad guy and the occasional good guy. He was seen in films including Basic Instinct (1992), White Fang (1991) and Cool World (1992), as well as on TV as Captain Bubb in Deadwood (2004), Walter Hoyt on NYPD Blue (1995–97) and Detective Frank Costa on JAG (1997–98). His writing found its way into several movies including .\n\nLally has been married three times. His first wife Carol Lee Fisher from 1964 to 1979. The second wife was Penelope Milford from 1982 to 1984. He then wed a third time to Jaina Flynn in 1997 before separating in 2003. Lally has three children: Caitlin, Miles and Flynn\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37466758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37466758", "title": "Michele Bruniges", "text": "Michele Bruniges\n\nMichele Denise Bruniges is an Australian teacher and education administrator. In April 2016 she began her role as Secretary of the Australian Government Department of Education and Training.\n\nBruniges has a Doctorate of Philosophy in Educational Measurement, a master's degree in Education from the University of New South Wales, a Graduate Diploma in Educational Studies and a Diploma in Teaching from the Goulburn College of Advanced Education.\n\nBruniges began her teaching career in 1980 at Leppington Public School prior to becoming a high school teacher of Mathematics and Computing at St Johns Park High School and Ingleburn High School. She also taught in TAFE NSW and the Adult Migrant Education Service.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2008 Bruniges was Chief Executive of the Australian Capital Territory ACT Department of Education and Training. She held various Federal positions with the Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations (DEEWR), including Deputy Secretary for the Office of Early Childhood Education and Child Care; Deputy Secretary, Schools and Associate Secretary, Schools and Youth.\n\nShe was appointed as Secretary of the NSW Department of Education in July 2011 and commenced on 7 September 2011.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2015 Bruniges was also an Honorary Adjunct Professor of Education in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at the University of New South Wales.\n\nIn March 2016, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull announced Bruniges' appointment as the next Secretary of the Australian Government Department of Education and Training.\n\n"}
{"id": "49478366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49478366", "title": "Mobile phone use in schools", "text": "Mobile phone use in schools\n\nThe use of mobile phones in school settings or environments is a topic of debate. \nSupporting parents believe that cell phones address their safety concerns by enabling them to communicate with their children. Teachers and administrators opposed to mobile phone usage in schools believe that they cause disruption, and may be used for malicious purposes such as cheating on tests or taking inappropriate photographs. Students become addicted to playing games and messaging others on their mobile devices, causing them to pay less attention in class and miss important lessons.\n\nA study of a group of undergraduate students, published in the journal \"Computers in Human Behavior\" in 2015, found that among undergraduate students, total mobile-phone use (measured in number of minutes per day, not limited to school time) was \"a significant and negative predictor of college students' academic performance, objectively measured as cumulative GPA.\" The study controlled for various other factors. Also, the use of mobile technology largely explains the inadequate behaviors in the use of ICT in the personal and school environments among young people, which justifies the need to promote actions that contribute to a more responsible use of this type of technology in all areas of his personal, school and social life.\n\nA 2015 study by the London School of Economics, conducted in four cities of England, found that test scores increased by more than 6% in schools which banned cell phones.\n\nIn 2016, researchers Julia Irwin and Natasha Gupta of Macquarie University performed an experiment in 2016 testing the effect of Facebook distractions in the classroom. The study found that students interested in the subject material and the way it was presented were less likely to be distracted by Facebook, however, those same students with access to phones still performed lower than students that were not allowed access to cell phones during the lecture.\n\nA 2017 collective study published by \"Applied Cognitive Psychology\", found that college students retained less knowledge when allowed to use or have a cell phone on them during lectures. During the experiment, students that were not allowed access to a cell phone tested better than students that had access to cell phones.\n\nDespite the numerous drawbacks that come with the use of cellphones in classrooms, there are also exist certain benefits. A 2017 study conducted by Dr. James Derounian at the University of Gloucestershire involving 100 participants revealed that 45% of students believe that the use of phones in classrooms supports their education. One of the most common strengths listed was the use of phones for accessing digital textbook and thus engaging deeper with the material presented. However, Derounian mentioned that there could be \"an element of social desirability conveyed in the student views given\".\n\nAn article by Emma Henderson for the \"Independent\" in the UK goes over \"phantom vibrations\" caused by \"learned bodily behavior\". The part of the body the phone is close to becomes very sensitive and the slightest vibration can cause a person to believe the phone has vibrated, hence the name \"phantom vibration\". 9 out of 10 people have claimed to have felt their mobile device vibrate while in the pocket when it in fact did not. It can be beneficial for students not only out of respect for the professor to have their mobile phones out of their pockets but also to themselves to help break this cycle.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, no schools banned mobile phones in 2001. However, by 2007, 50% of the schools had banned these devices, and by 2012, this number had increased to 98%. According to \"CNN Money\", students' academic skills improved when policies were implemented to ban cell phone use in schools. Schools banning students from carrying phones helped students score higher on exams and reduced the students' temptations to use cell phones for non-scholarly purposes.\n\nIn the past, some U.S. schools have installed mobile phone jammers to prevent mobile phones from working on campuses. The sale and use of jammers is illegal in the U.S. under the federal Communications Act of 1934, because jammers cut off 9-1-1 calls and can disrupt air navigation near airports, and in 2012 the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) stepped up enforcement of the law. Mt. Spokane High School in Washington state at one point installed a jammer in school to prevent students from calling and text-messaging, but removed the device after determining that it was \"probably not legal\" under federal law. In 2015, one Florida science teacher received a five-day unpaid suspension for installing a jammer in his classroom.\n\nIn 2005, the New York City Department of Education imposed a citywide ban on mobile phones in public schools. According to the \"New York Times\", the ban was \"inconsistently enforced, with some schools allowing students to carry phones as long as staff members do not hear or see them, and other schools—particularly those with metal detectors at the doors—maintaining a strict ban. Outside those schools, small businesses have sprung up that allow students to park their phones inside a truck for a dollar a day.\" The ban was unpopular among parents because it impeded communication with children. In March 2015, the citywide ban was lifted, fulfilling a campaign promise made by Mayor Bill de Blasio. Under the new policy, school principals (in consultation with teachers and parents) may set rules on use and storage of mobile phones during instructional time and lunch breaks. The default rule would be that phones would be required to remain hidden, but principals could also choose to \"require students to store phones in backpacks or in a designated place; allow use of phones during lunch or in designated areas; or allow phones to be used for instructional purposes\". De Blasio said that the policy shift would allow to parents stay in better touch with their children, particularly in emergencies, especially in case of an emergency, and Schools Chancellor Carmen Fariña noted that the change means that students in schools with metal detector would no longer have to pay outside vendors to store phones for them during the school day.\n\nStudents tend to support the side that grants them the opportunity to bring mobile phones in school campus, arguing that phones allow them to reach their parents if any problem occurs. Parents also argue that there isn't a replacement for mobile phones, so phones are an essential device to carry around. If their child is in danger or doesn't feel safe, he or she has to be able to reach out to them. They also believe that having a phone shows responsibility. \n\nTheft of mobile phones is a concern in some schools. For example, in the Wichita School District (USD 259) public schools, 80 cases of theft of cell phones were reported in 2014. In 2012, following an undercover investigation, thirteen students in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, all juveniles, were arrested and charged with running a cell phone theft ring that resulted in the theft of several thousand dollars' worth of mobile phones, tablets, and other electronics.\n\nAn increasing number of schools are now allowing use of cell phones as learning tools. However, the use of cell phones in schools is challenging. Some schools reported allowing all students to use cell phones at the same time slows down school bandwidth speeds.\n\nAccording to the Governors Highway Safety Association, while no state bans all mobile-phone use for all drivers, 20 states and the District of Columbia prohibit school bus drivers from using mobile phones. School bus drivers have been fired or suspended for using the phone or text-messaging while driving.\n\nMobile phones can be very beneficial in schools. There are many apps used that help students excel.\n\nQuizlet is an online study tool that allows you to make digital notecards and allows you to see other peoples notecard sets. The Quizlet app is very easy and accessible to use. Quizlet has multiple ways to test yourself using different variations of games. Quizlet has over 30 million active users.\n\nTophat is used in many different classes to record attendance and take quizzes. It allows the professors to know whether you were in class or not and whether you were participating or not.\n\nTurningPoint is similar to the previous mentioned app, Tophat. It is used as an interactive polling inside the classroom. Professors can also track attendance and provide quizzes for the students with the use of this app.\n\nRider is an app currently used at multiple colleges to locate the buses throughout the bus system. It allows students to track the buses and give them an estimated time of arrival.\n\nThese apps have helped students around the world on a day to day basis. These apps encourage the use of cell phones and/or computers during school classes. Students and professors are moving more and more to only using electronics. \n\nWith the rise of use of mobile cell phones in school, applications for these cellphones have been created to support this. As of February 2018, 80,000 applications were available for teacher use.  A variety of messaging apps provide communication for student to student relationships as well as teacher to student. Some popular apps for both student, teacher, and parent use are ClassDojo, and Remind. This accounts for the 72% of iTunes’ top selling education apps are for preschoolers and elementary school students. Apps like Remind and ClassDojo offer many different abilities such as language translation, scheduled reminders, and parent messages.\n\nClassDojo is one of the Apps that is used widely throughout schools. According to crunchbase.com, it is a “means to encourage learning, skill development and character building among students”. The app offers a platform for teachers to share pictures, videos, and reports with parents and administrators. The Remind App is another way for teachers to communicate with parents and administration. The App allows teachers to send out scheduled text messages to parents, and also provides a class blog for the teacher to update with upcoming due dates, tests/quizzes, and other class information. WhatsApp is different from the other apps because it provides communication for students to other students. The app offers group chats, video messaging, video class, and photo messaging. Another app that allows students to communicate is GroupMe. GroupMe allows students to communicate in a group chat, while also only using WiFi instead of cellular data. Some college-aged students use this app for sharing course information.\n\nTechnology in schools is becoming a common practice throughout many grades and age levels. The creation of messaging applications helps support this boom of usage in schools. This new technology comes with both pros and cons. A pro of messaging apps is their easy usage and accessibility to student, teachers, and parents. \nAccessibility of the messaging apps makes it easier for parents with disabilities, demanding full time jobs, and language barriers to communicate more efficiently. A con is that not all students and parents have this technology available to them. This can cause a gap in students who have cellphones and computers and those who do not. Increased access and transparency can make students shift their responsibilities to their parents, minimizing student ownership. Another con is the ease in sharing of information can lead to academic dishonesty. This is a policy colleges are cracking down on.\n\nAs the kinks of messaging applications become smoothed out over time, the future of them lies ahead. By minimizing both student and parent entitlement, setting communication boundaries, stating expectations early, and reinforcing student responsibility some of the cons from messaging apps can be eliminated. \nThere is hope that they become more advanced, specifically when using them for help via a bot. Advancement in this field will allow for higher frequency of use, more emotional connection, and higher convenience for users. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "169622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169622", "title": "Māori language revival", "text": "Māori language revival\n\nThe Māori language revival is a movement to promote, reinforce and strengthen the speaking of the Māori language. Primarily in New Zealand, but also in centres with large numbers of New Zealand migrants (such as London and Melbourne), the movement aims to increase the use of Māori in the home, in education, government and business. The movement is part of a broader Māori Renaissance.\n\nUntil World War II (1939–1945) most Māori people spoke Māori as their first language but by the 1980s fewer than 20% of Māori spoke the language well enough to be classed as native speakers. The causes of the decline included the switch from using Māori to using English compulsorily in schools and increasing urbanisation, which disconnected younger generations from their extended families and in particular their grandparents, who traditionally played a large part in family life. Even many of those people no longer spoke Māori in the home. As a result, many Māori children failed to learn their ancestral language, and generations of non-Māori-speaking Māori emerged.\n\nIn response, Māori leaders initiated Māori-language recovery-programs such as the Kōhanga Reo (literally, \"language nest\") movement, which from 1982 immersed infants in Māori from infancy to school age. In 1989 official support was given for Kura Kaupapa Māori - primary and secondary Māori-language immersion schools.\n\nA government-sponsored initiative, \"te wiki o te reo Māori\" has been celebrated since 1975 and is intended to encourage New Zealanders to learn or at least support Māori.\n\nThe Māori Language Act 1987 was passed as a response to the Waitangi Tribunal finding that the Māori language was a \"taonga\", treasure or valued possession, under the Treaty of Waitangi.\n\nThe Act gave Te Reo Māori official language status, and gave speakers a right to use it in legal settings such as in court. It also established the Māori Language Commission (initially called \"Te Komihana Mo Te Reo Māori\" but later renamed \"Te Taura Whiri I Te Reo Māori\") to promote the language and provide advice on it.\n\nKōhanga reo (Māori: literally \"language nest\") is a whānau (family) development and language revitalisation initiative grounded in Māori cultural principles and ideals. It facilitates the growth and development of mokopuna (children) through the transmission of Māori language, knowledge and culture. The kōhanga reo movement operates from the Māori philosophical world view and is principally guided by kaumātua (respected elders).\n\nIndividual Kōhanga Reo are autonomously run by their respective whānau, which consists of a \"collective group of teachers, parents, local elders, and members of the Māori community.\" While funded by governmental quarterly grants from the Te Kōhanga Reo National Trust, Kōhanga Reo often also charge additional fees to cover operational costs. These fees, determined by each whānau, are generally comparable to or less expensive than traditional child-care.\n\nConducted entirely in the medium of Māori language, kōhanga reo is an environment where 0 – 6 year olds, kaumātua and whānau spend time together talking, playing, praying and learning. Daily activities may take place anywhere that is safe and warm including marae (traditional Māori buildings), converted homes or purpose-built centres.\n\nEmerging in the late 1970s at the direction of kaumātua, kōhanga reo was an immediate and urgent response to the decline of te reo Māori (Māori language) and tikanga Māori (Māori culture, cultural habits and practices). Jean Puketapu and Iritana Tawhiwhirangi were among the early leaders when the first kōhanga reo was founded in Wainuiomata in 1982. Three years later there were over 300 operating.\n\nThe success of kōhanga reo is such that they have been followed by the establishment of primary schools and secondary schools (Kura Kaupapa Māori) where Māori is the primary language of instruction. The role of Maori language in education in New Zealand is enshrined in the Education Act 1989.\n\nThe kōhanga reo concept has led to other before-school initiatives in New Zealand that instruct in Pacific languages, e.g. Fijian, Rarotongan, Samoan, and Tongan and other countries adopting a similar concept. A notable example being \"Pūnana Leo\" established in Hawaii to revitalise the indigenous Hawaiian language.\n\nThe Māori Party election campaigns often feature increased roles for reo Māori; in 2011 it wanted to require all secondary schools offer Māori language as an option to every student.\n\n\"Kura Kaupapa Māori\" are Māori immersion primary schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42479756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42479756", "title": "Nahda College", "text": "Nahda College\n\nNahda College is an educational institution founded in 2014 and based in the city of Khartoum, Sudan.\n\n"}
{"id": "19063968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19063968", "title": "New Sudan Education Initiative", "text": "New Sudan Education Initiative\n\nThe New Sudan Education Initiative (NESEI) is a non-profit organization based in Colchester, Vermont in the United States, which is building secondary schools (high schools) throughout South Sudan, a region affected by war for nearly half a century. It was founded in January 2006 by Atem Deng, a former Sudanese refugee, and Robert Lair, a social entrepreneur and educator. The organization was created after a Comprehensive Peace Agreement was signed in 2005, bringing the conflict in southern Sudan to an official close. The CPA created a critical opportunity for development to take place in this region. In 2004, Deng and Lair asked Sudanese they met at refugee camps throughout East Africa what was most needed in their homeland. \"Education\" was the resounding answer they received. South Sudan currently suffers from some of the worst education access rates in the world. Female illiteracy hovers above 93%, and only 5% of young people graduate from high school. It was from these discussions with Sudanese refugees that they developed NESEI. The organization opened its first school in May 2008, near the town of Yei, and it currently plans to build 20 schools throughout South Sudan.\n\nNESEI was first conceived in January 2004, on a plane ride from East Africa to Vermont, when Robert Lair, a faculty member at Saint Michael's College, and Atem Deng, a former Sudanese refugee and student at the University of Vermont, decided that they needed to make an impact in Southern Sudan, after witnessing the poor living conditions and lack of education opportunities affecting Sudanese in refugee camps across East Africa. They formulated a plan to work with the large Sudanese diaspora population in the Burlington, VT area and throughout the United States to bring diaspora-initiated education opportunities to Sudan. Together, they founded an organization, named the New Sudan Education Initiative (NESEI), through which they planned to provide an education for young people throughout Southern Sudan who lacked education opportunities, including former child soldiers, young women, Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), and other groups who had been most adversely affected in the decades-long war there.\n\nOver the next few years, their organization evolved into a plan to provide secondary education to 20,000 Southern Sudanese children and to build 20 schools throughout the region. Their first school, The New Sudan School of Health Sciences, opened on May 19, 2008, with an initial class of 75 young women.\nNESEI has evolved into an organization that has as its priority the incorporation of sustainable economic and environmental practices at its school campus. To achieve this goal, they have instituted social business practices that include agriculturally based income generating projects that provide food to the campus and broader community. Additionally, the school plans to replace the generators which currently power the school with solar panels, increasing environmental and economic sustainability.\n\nIn 2010, NESEI was renamed Africa Education and Leadership Initiative.\n\nNESEI's school plans to expand to over 100 students in 2009. NESEI also plans to open an agriculture program within the next year at the same location, which will teach students agricultural practices in an 'interactive classroom' on the school farm. As part of their studies, students will grow and learn about food at the farm, helping to support their campus and the surrounding communities.\n\nNESEI plans to open schools throughout South Sudan. These schools will combine a standard high school curriculum, as well as specialized vocational courses, which will provide training to young Sudanese in specific occupations which are in high demand and low supply throughout South Sudan, including Health Sciences, Agriculture, Computer Technology, and Business.\n\nAlthough NESEI is currently a traditional non-profit organization, and receives most of its funding from private donors, it operates under the belief that a sustainable business model is one which will be most able to create a lasting and scalable impact. It believes that there is much to learn from the social entrepreneur movement, and plans to become a social business in the future, which will no longer have to rely on donations for its funding. It plans to become sustainable through charging a small tuition to its more affluent students, and by utilizing income-generating projects in its schools. The projects will include activities in each school, with examples being small agricultural plots and animal husbandry. This will provide food for the school, teach students valuable skills, and supply the local community with reasonably priced and fresh products.\n"}
{"id": "8857578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8857578", "title": "PRISM (website)", "text": "PRISM (website)\n\nPortal Resources for Indiana Science and Mathematics (PRISM) is a free website originally designed for Indiana middle school math, science, and technology teachers. It links Indiana Academic Standards for middle school science, technology, pre-engineering, and math (STEM fields) to appropriate, teacher-reviewed online learning activities. Users may either browse materials by academic standard or use the keyword search engine to find appropriate sites.\n\nWith the integration of the Moodle open source Learning Management System in 2006, PRISM now serves a much larger audience. Teachers from all grades may use Moodle to establish online classroom courses.\n\nTypical PRISM reviewed resources include web-delivered simulations, visualizations, modeling packages, and resource sites providing access to live data or collaborative experiments. PRISM endeavors to encourage interactive learning, foster new liaisons among students, parents, and teachers, and foster alternative pedagogical approaches.\n\nMembership in PRISM is free and is open to parents, teachers, and pre-service personnel. Student names and/or usernames are not displayed publicly on the site.\n\nThe PRISM Project is funded by a grant from the Lilly Endowment and hosted at Rose–Hulman Institute of Technology (RHIT). PRISM is the West Central Regional Coordinator for the I-STEM Network. Dr. Patricia A. Carlson (RHIT) is the Program Director of the project.\n\nrose-prism.org\n"}
{"id": "57713312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57713312", "title": "Paul Ramsden", "text": "Paul Ramsden\n\nPaul Ramsden (5 August 1948–2 August 2017) was a British-Australian education theorist known for his role as the first Chief Executive of the Higher Education Academy (2004–2010).\n\nWhile at the University of Sydney, he developed the Course Experience Questionnaire. This was the model for the UK's National Student Survey.\n\nHe died in August 2017 after suffering from a pulmonary embolism.\n\n"}
{"id": "640417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=640417", "title": "Philippe de La Hire", "text": "Philippe de La Hire\n\nPhilippe de La Hire (or Lahire, La Hyre or Phillipe de La Hire) (18 March 1640 – 21 April 1718) was a French painter, mathematician, astronomer, and architect. According to Bernard le Bovier de Fontenelle he was an \"academy unto himself\".\n\nHe was born in Paris, the son of Laurent de La Hire, a distinguished artist and Marguerite Coquin. In 1660, he moved to Venice for four years to study painting. Upon his return to Paris, he became a disciple of Girard Desargues from whom he learned geometrical perspective and was received as a master painter on 4 August 1670. His paintings have sometimes been confused with those of his son, Jean Nicolas de La Hire, who was a doctor but also a painter.\n\nHe also began to study science and showed an aptitude for mathematics. He was taught by the French Jesuit theologian, mathematician, physicist and controversialist Honoré Fabri and became part of a circle formed by Fabri which included Giovanni Domenico Cassini, Claude Francois Milliet Deschales, Christiaan Huygens and his brother Constantijn, Gottfried Leibniz, René Descartes and Marin Mersenne. He became a member of French Academy of Sciences in 1678, and subsequently became active as an astronomer, calculating tables of the movements of the Sun, Moon, and planets and designing contrivances for aiming aerial telescopes. From 1679–1682 he made several observations and measurements of the French coastline, and in 1683 aided in mapping France by extending the Paris meridian to the north. In 1683 La Hire assumed the chair of mathematics at the Collège Royal. From 1687 onwards he taught at the Académie d’architecture.\n\nLa Hire wrote on graphical methods, 1673; on conic sections, 1685; a treatise on epicycloids, 1694; one on roulettes, 1702; and, lastly, another on conchoids, 1708. His works on conic sections and epicycloids were based on the teaching of Desargues, of whom he was the favourite pupil. He also translated the essay of Manuel Moschopulus on magic squares, and collected many of the theorems on them which were previously known; this was published in 1705. He also published a set of astronomical tables in 1702. La Hire's work also extended to descriptive zoology, the study of respiration, and physiological optics.\n\nTwo of his sons were also notable for their scientific achievements: Gabriel-Philippe de La Hire (1677–1719), mathematician, and Jean-Nicolas de La Hire (1685–1727), botanist.\n\nMons La Hire, a mountain on the Moon, is named for him.\n\nUnless otherwise stated La Hire's works are in French.\n\n\n\n\"This text incorporates public domain material from the Rouse History of Mathematics\"\n"}
{"id": "31417678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31417678", "title": "Prodanza Ballet Academy", "text": "Prodanza Ballet Academy\n\nThe Center Prodanza of Cuba was established on December 30 of 1994 under the direction of the Grand Maitre de Ballet Laura Alonso, derived from the Department of Specialized Teaching Ballet Nacional de Cuba, in which they had created the basis for promoting technical Cuban Ballet School.\n\nOn December 30 of 1994 establishing the grouping Promotion Center Dance PRODANZA. The center is located in an old country house known as the home fifth in the figures, located on Avenida 51 Esquina a 118, No. 11805, Marianao, La Habana, Cuba.\n\nProdanza Center has workshops for vocational training, whose annual tuition is approximately 464 students between the ages of four and fifteen years, where they receive technical training of ballet, acting, makeup and fitness, promoting artistic development and training of the foundations of the Cuban school of ballet and promoting the development of young talent within the genre.\n\nThus the main objective of Prodanza has been to achieve a consistent methodology that allows the dancer's progress from initiation to professional life through their own system of teaching methodology and technique of the Cuban school of ballet. Maîtres up the cloister and teachers a ready group of trained professionals backed by a creditable job in the world of dance.\n\nAlso, this institution has contributed to the formation of classical dance talents, now recognized figures in various international companies such as José Manuel Carreño, principal dancer of American Ballet Theatre, Xiomara Reyes, prima ballerina of American Ballet Theatre, Arionel Vargas, solo Royal Winnipeg Ballet of Canada, Yat-Sen Chang, first dancer of the British National Ballet, among others.\n\nAlso has four project groups, which are: the ballet company Laura Alonso, Blue water ballet dance, ballet and popular New Pines and I play the traditional ballet. The center performs more than six seasons annual presentations in the theaters of the capital and province.\nThe project groups were established with the aim of promoting artistic development, promote the development of young talent within the genre and continue doing promotional work aimed at strengthening child and adolescent love for artistic creation.\n\nProdanza is a tradition of conducting important annual events like the summer Cuballet the academic year for teachers, martial arts course and its relationship to dance, dance workshop and academic year-round professional training courses, counting these with the participation of dancers from various countries.\n\nLaura Alonso Ballet, a company founded in 1995, presented annually more than one hundred functions in three theaters. He has traveled to Mexico, Argentina, Peru, Brazil, Guadeloupe and Jamaica . The full repertoire of ballets the company includes: The Nutcracker, Coppelia, Don Quixote, The Corsair, The Swan Lake, La Bayadere, La Fille Mal Gardee, La Sylphide, The Three Musketeers, Dracula, Le Chevalier de Saint-Georges Yarini, as well as programs Pas de deux concerts with classical and original works by contemporary choreographers who have created a line identifying codes known dance companies in this group.\n\nLos Pinos Nuevos, was established on September 11 of 1980 and their repertoire and artistic activities include folk dances and folkloric Cuban salsa, modern dance and ballet classes as a base and Jazz and Hip Hop and adapted to the new requirements of the international choreography. Presented in national and international stages.\n\nI play : it was created on September 17 of 2008 and their repertoire and artistic work include the fusion of rhythms, folk dances and folk and contemporary dance and hip hop dancing techniques. Presented in national and international stages.\n\nBlue Water Ballet Dance : was created in 1991 and their repertoire and artistic work includes interpretation through synchronized swimming technique in choreography inspired by genres like fusion, folk, popular and contemporary. Presented in national and international stages.\n\nIn the world of dance, Cuballet recognized among the most accredited events, structured by the methodology and technique of the prestigious Cuban school of ballet. Is for all ballet students from 10 years of age and dance professionals. In the Cuballet are two courses: Course for Teachers Course dancers\n\nThe Laura Alonso Ballet Company and the Centre for Promotion of Dance accumulate the experience of having organized this event for more than 60 editions in Cuba, Brazil and Mexico. Currently holds two annual events: in January, in Brazil and in the month of August, in Cuba.\n\n\nClassic :\n\nNutcracker\n\nCoppelia\nDon Quixote\nThe Corsaire\nThe Swan Lake\n\nLa Bayadere\nLa Fille Mal Gardee\nLa Sylphide and the Scotsman\nThe Three Musketeers\n\nNeoclassical :\n\nDracula\nLe Chevalier de Saint-Georges\nYarini\n\nChoreography:\n\nClassic:\n\nDiana and Actaeon (pas de deux)\nGiselle (pas de deux)\nGrand pas de quatre\nSleeping Beauty (pas de deux)\nThe Flames of Paris (pas de deux)\nThe Dying Swan (male version)\nThe Dying Swan (female version)\nRaymonda (pas de deux)\n"}
{"id": "3211362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3211362", "title": "Roger de La Fresnaye", "text": "Roger de La Fresnaye\n\nRoger de La Fresnaye (; 11 July 1885 – 27 November 1925) was a French Cubist painter.\n\nLa Fresnaye was born in Le Mans where his father, an officer in the French army, was temporarily stationed. The La Fresnayes were an aristocratic family whose ancestral home, the Château de La Fresnaye, is in Falaise. His education was classically based, and was followed from 1903 to 1904 by studies at the Académie Julian in Paris, and from 1904 to 1908 at the École des Beaux-Arts. From 1908 he studied at the Académie Ranson under Maurice Denis and Paul Sérusier, whose joint influence is evident in early works such as \"Woman with Chrysanthemums\", 1909. This demonstrates the dreamlike symbolist ambience and stylistic character of work by the Les Nabis group.\n\nFrom 1912 to 1914 La Fresnaye was a member of the Section d'Or group of artists, and his work demonstrates an individual response to cubism. He was influenced by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso, but his work has a more decorative than structural feel and his prismatic colours reflect the influence of Robert Delaunay. He was a member of the Puteaux Group, an orphist offshoot of cubism led by Jacques Villon. His most famous work is \"The Conquest of the Air\", 1913, which depicts himself and his brother outdoors with a balloon in the background.\n\nLa Fresnaye enlisted in the French army in World War I but contracted tuberculosis and was discharged in 1918. His health deteriorated rapidly after the war. He never recovered the physical energy to undertake sustained work. In the later paintings that he did create, he abandoned cubist spatial analysis for a more linear style. He ceased painting in 1922 but continued to draw. De la Fresnaye died in Grasse in 1925 at the age of 40.\n\nOn March 24, 2017 a new record was established for a work by De la Frensaye at auction when \"La conquête de l'air, avec deux personnages\" sold for €2,370,500 at Christies in Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43771789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43771789", "title": "STARTALK (language program)", "text": "STARTALK (language program)\n\nSTARTALK is a language education program at the University of Maryland, created under the National Security Language Initiative, a federal program which seeks to expand the teaching of strategically important languages in the United States. Languages taught under the STARTALK program include Arabic, Chinese, Dari, Hindi, Persian, Portuguese, Russian, Swahili, Turkish, and Urdu. STARTALK is a project of the National Foreign Language Center of the University of Maryland, located in Riverdale, Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "10728102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10728102", "title": "Student bar association", "text": "Student bar association\n\nStudent bar associations (SBAs) are student organizations that exist at many laws schools in the United States. Student bar associations take their name from bar associations, which are professional bodies of lawyers. \n\nThe duties, structure, and size of the student bar association varies among law schools. In many law schools, the student bar association is analogous to the student government, and the body acts as a liaison between administrators and students. Other duties may include sponsoring and planning social and educational events and providing student services. \n\n"}
{"id": "6472568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6472568", "title": "Tegla Loroupe Peace Foundation", "text": "Tegla Loroupe Peace Foundation\n\nThe Tegla Loroupe Peace Foundation is a peace and development organization based in Nairobi, Kenya. It is named for Tegla Loroupe, a world-champion marathon runner from Kapenguria, Kenya.\n\nThe foundation's mission is to promote peaceful co-existence and socioeconomic development of poor and marginalized individuals and communities in Northern Kenya and the Greater Horn of Africa Region.\n\nSince its founding in 2003, the foundation has organized annual Peace Races across East Africa, primarily in Kenya and Uganda. Thousands of participants from tribes across the region participate in meetings, peace dialogues and athletic competitions.\n\nViolence in the region from cattle rustling and tribal rivalries occurs across an area of tens of thousands of square kilometers. The Peace Races draws participants from hundreds of kilometers away, with the conditions that all warriors participating must lay down their weapons and arrive at the race site prepared to join those with whom they may be at war.\n\nRaces have taken place in the Tana River area, a constant site of violent tribal and economic warfare; in Kapenguria, in West Pokot; in Moroto, in Uganda. Tribes participating in the races include the Pokot, the Turkana, the Karamajong, the Maraquet, the Orma, and the Pokomo.\n\nThe foundation has built a school for orphans affected by the violence in the cattle raising areas of north-west Kenya, eastern Uganda, southern Ethiopia and southern Sudan. Now in operation for over five years, there are 270 students drawn from areas affected by regional violence.\n\nPhase one of the curriculum will be for primary levels, with children from six years old to fourteen years old. Phase two will extend classes through higher forms.\n\nIn 2015, the Tegla Loroupe Peace Academy's top student achieved Kenya Examination score of 381. The school is improving its ranking every year.\n\n"}
{"id": "10788964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10788964", "title": "The False Principle of our Education", "text": "The False Principle of our Education\n\nThe False Principle of Our Education: Or, Humanism and Realism () is an article written by Max Stirner and published in the \"Rheinische Zeitung\" in April 1842.\n\nStirner begins by stressing the importance of education: \"the school question is a life question.\"\n\nHe then sketches a brief history of education from the Reformation. For him, the Enlightenment introduced a new principle behind education to challenge the classical humanist principle. Where education had taught the few \"to talk about everything,\" the Enlightenment saw the rise of the realist \"demand for a practical finishing education.\" Stirner concludes \"Henceforth, knowledge was to be lived...\"\n\nStirner saw educational theory in his day as a battlefield between the two parties - humanists, grasping the past, and realists, seizing the present. He criticised both as seeking power over the \"transitory,\" as viewing education as a \"struggle towards mastery in the handling of material.\" Stirner supports the realist criticism that the humanists seek knowledge for its own sake, but asks whether the realists do any better. Because the realists merely supply the individual with the tools to achieve his will, without reforming that will, they fail to achieve what Stirner calls \"freedom of will.\" They fail to reach self-understanding (a concept Stirner took from Hegel and twisted in his fashion in \"The Ego and its Own\") and \"fall in the abyss of their own emptiness.\"\n\nIf the failures of the humanists (and realists) are truly to be overcome, \"the final goal of education can no longer be knowledge.\" Asserting that \"only the spirit which understands itself is eternal,\" Stirner calls for a shift in the principle of education from making us \"masters of things\" to making us \"free natures.\" Till one knows oneself, one has not mastered one's own will, and one is merely subservient; once one masters it one is free.\n\nStirner names his educational principle \"personalist,\" explaining that self-understanding consists in hourly self-creation. Education is to create \"free men, sovereign characters,\" by which he means \"eternal characters...who are therefore eternal because they form themselves each moment.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58970559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58970559", "title": "Thomas Oakland", "text": "Thomas Oakland\n\nThomas David Oakland (November 23, 1939 – March 4, 2015) was an American school and educational psychologist who taught at the University of Florida from 1995 until retiring in 2010. He previously taught at the University of Texas at Austin for 27 years. He was a fellow of the American Psychological Society and of four divisions of the American Psychological Association.\n\nOakland was murdered at his home on March 4, 2015, at the age of 75. Local police alleged at the time that Stephen Underwood Jr., an ex-convict whom Oakland had previously given over $37,000 in cash, fatally struck Oakland in the head and body. Police also claimed that Underwood then stole money from Oakland's home before setting it on fire. Underwood was soon arrested and charged with murder, arson, burglary, and grand theft. In February 2018, Underwood was found guilty of Oakland's murder and sentenced to 50 years in prison.\n"}
{"id": "5839116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5839116", "title": "Tom McHale (novelist born 1941)", "text": "Tom McHale (novelist born 1941)\n\nTom McHale (1941 – March 30, 1982) was an American novelist. His works include \"Principato\", \"Farragan's Retreat\" (nominated for the National Book Award), \"Alinsky's Diamond\", \"School Spirit\", \"The Lady from Boston\", and \"Dear Friends\". He was born in Avoca, Pennsylvania and received a Master of Fine Arts degree from the University of Iowa. He committed suicide in Florida in 1982.\n\nThomas \"Tom\" McHale was born in 1941 in Avoca, Pennsylvania located nine miles (15 km) southwest of Scranton. He was the eldest of six children from an Irish-Catholic family. His family’s Irish-American ethnicity and Roman Catholicism would become prominent elements in his novels.\n\nHe worked as a caseworker for the Department of Public Assistance in Philadelphia for a brief period.\n\nHe attended Jesuit Catholic schools including \"Scranton Preparatory\" (1955–1959) and was a graduate of Temple University in the early 1960s. He went on to earn a Master of Fine Arts from the University of Iowa Writers Workshop.\n\nHe had planned to be a doctor and attended medical school but changed his mind and dropped out.\n\nAfter the success of his first novel, \"Principato\" in 1972, McHale secured the position of \"writer-in-residence\" at Monmouth University in West Long Branch, New Jersey, a position he held until the end of his life.\n\nShortly before his death he was rewarded with a teaching position at the University of Pennsylvania that was to commence in fall semester, September, 1983.\n\nMcHale took an interest in writing early on, however, after attending a wedding in Israel in the late 1960s he decided to \"give the writing monster inside me a chance and stayed there a year to see what I could do, to see if anything came up. I wrote a first novel. It was so bad that I tore it up into little pieces, took it out to the Negev Desert and threw it all over.\"\n\nShortly after, he wrote a second novel and traveled to Paris, France where he shared it with the widow of novelist Richard Wright. She liked what she saw and the book was later published as \"Principato\", McHale's first important work.\n\nBy the 1970s he was one of the most promising American novelists of his generation. During a period of 12 years between 1970 and 1982, he produced six novels that received wide acclaim and positive reviews.\n\nIn 1976, McHale noted that he \"writes in longhand, then has his work transcribed by a typist he describes as 'marvelous', she actually knows the English language and corrects my spelling and punctuation.\" He would spend an average of 18 months working on each novel but admitted that \"School Spirit\" only took him about seven months. During that period he was living in Boston, Massachusetts and expressed that he would like to work on a movie script because next because \"I'm terribly interested in film. It's such a vast medium, so many people can see a movie. A novel, however, is limited in its appeal.\"\n\nMcHale described his work;\nBy 1972, Paramount pictures was very enthused about McHale's first novel, \"Farragan's Retreat\". They even hired screenwriter Ring Lardner Jr. to turn the novel into a screenplay. This was during the time of Richard Nixon's election and Paramount eventually decided that the War in Vietnam was going to end soon. Because the book was about a young man who had gone to Canada to avoid the draft, the studio decided against using the story because they worried that by the time the film finally came out, the war would be over and the American public would have lost interest. As it turns out, Nixon prolonged the war, but by then Paramount had unfortunately moved on. Lardner mentioned several years later, in 1982, that he regretted that Paramount dropped the project because it was the screenplay he \"liked the very best that never got made.\"\n\nReviewers compared McHale's novels to those of Joseph Heller, Kurt Vonnegut Jr., John Updike and Philip Roth because of his black comic humor. They also saw considerable talent in his quickly growing body of work. A New York Times review in March, 1971 noted that \"There are many young writers with healthy reserves of rags and chaos, some indeed with little else. What distinguishes McHale is not only the fertility of his invention but the humanity—remarkable in a writer of 28—that penetrates even his crudest characters.\".\n\nAn article in \"Life Magazine\" in 1971 went on to say that \"McHale writes as if born to the craft. He imagines and schemes like a beery poet. He sees, pokes, probes. He tells fabulous jokes---McHale's capacity to trigger emotions ranges from laughter to compassion to cold horror. Realism, pathos, mystery, Tom McHale is not another new writer. He is himself.\"\n\nBy 1976, a review from Associated Press gave much credit to the novel \"School Spirit\" for grappling with \"questions that men have long pondered, questions such as the sanctity of life, guilt, punishment, redemption, but instead of creating what should have been a heavy philosophic text, he successfully produced a comic novel that makes the reader think, even as he laughs.\"\n\nDespite many good reviews, not all were favorable. In 1971 a scathing review of \"Farragan's Retreat\" noted that \"this is an absurd book that started well. Now that this talented author has this novel out of his system, we can only hope that he'll live up to his potential.\"\n\nMcHale was married to Suzanne McHale and had homes in Kittery, Maine and Killington, Vermont. McHale enjoyed working with masonry in his spare time. He started in his mid-twenties by building fieldstone walls and later built fireplaces. In 1976, he proudly talked about the home in Maine, 60 miles from Boston, that he was looking forward to the construction of that summer; \"It'll give me a chance to do some physical work. Outside, I'll do the masonry work on the base of the house and inside, I'll do the fireplace.\"\n\nMcHale committed suicide at age 40 at his sister’s home in Pembroke Pines, Florida.\n\n\n\nIn 1974, McHale was awarded the Guggenheim Fellowship for Fiction for \"Alinsky's Diamond\". He also received the \"Thomas More Association\" medal, an award given annually for the most distinguished contribution to Catholic Literature for his novel \"School Spirit\" in 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "41013618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41013618", "title": "University of Wisconsin Experimental College", "text": "University of Wisconsin Experimental College\n\nThe University of Wisconsin Experimental College was a two-year college designed and led by Alexander Meiklejohn inside the University of Wisconsin–Madison with a great books, liberal arts curriculum. It was established in 1927 and closed in 1932. Meiklejohn proposed the idea for an alternative college in a 1925 \"Century\" magazine article. The magazine's editor-in-chief, Glenn Frank, became the University of Wisconsin's president and invited Meiklejohn to begin the college within the university. Despite pushback from the faculty, the college opened in the fall of 1927 with a self-governing community of 119 students and less than a dozen faculty. Students followed a uniform curriculum: Periclean Athens for freshmen and modern America for sophomores. The program sought to teach democracy and to foster an intrinsic love of learning within its students.\n\nThe college's students became known as free spirited outsiders within the university for their different dress, apathetic demeanor, and greater interest in reading books. The college's demographics were unlike the rest of the university, with students largely not from Wisconsin and disproportionately of Jewish and East Coast families. The college developed a reputation for radicalism and wanton anarchy, especially within Wisconsin. The students lived and worked with their teachers, called advisers, in Adams Hall, away from the heart of the university. They had no fixed schedule, no compulsory lessons, and no semesterly grades, though they read from a common syllabus. The advisers taught primarily through tutorial instead of lectures. Extracurricular groups, including philosophy, law, and theater clubs, were entirely student-led.\n\nThe Great Depression and lack of outreach to Wisconsinites and UW faculty led to the college's slow decline. Enrollment decreased every year since the program began, which its statewide reputation exacerbated. After his son was expelled in 1931 by dean and Experimental College critic George Sellery, Meiklejohn recommended the college's dissolution. Public criticism of the college included student radicalism, lack of discipline, administrative issues, and financial issues. Meiklejohn wrote a retrospective of the college, which philosopher John Dewey reviewed favorably and noted for its contribution to educational philosophy. University of Wisconsin faculty and regents voted to dissolve the college in May 1932. Some advisers stayed to teach in the university, and Meiklejohn remained briefly before moving to Berkeley. The Experimental College influenced programs internal to the university, and was the precursor to its Integrated Liberal Studies undergraduate program.\n\n In June 1923, Alexander Meiklejohn had been asked to step down as president of Amherst College. He was recruited specifically to revitalize the college a decade earlier with the views on education for which he was known. Meiklejohn announced curriculum reform with a singular focus on \"understanding human life as to be ready and equipped for the practice of it\", and subsequently made the humanities coursework more interdisciplinary, added social sciences courses, and attracted new faculty members interested in the Socratic method. Meiklejohn had student support, but clashed with senior faculty and alumni, and was ultimately removed due to his administrative mismanagement and not his educational reforms.\n\nMeiklejohn resolved to open a new, experimental liberal arts college in late 1924, but struggled to find funding. Seeking $3 million for the venture, he was rejected by Bernard Baruch and Abraham Flexner but through support from \"The New Republic\" Herbert Croly was offered planning funds from the magazine's main benefactor. The planning team included journalist Mark Sullivan, New School professor Alvin Johnson, and \"The Century Magazine\" editor-in-chief Glenn Frank. Frank had previously published Meiklejohn's work and was sympathetic to his cause.\n\nIn January 1925, \"Century\" published Meiklejohn's plan for a new and \"experimental\" college, \"A New College: Notes on a Next Step in Higher Education\". The proposed college would have a \"unified\" two-year curriculum and closer ties between faculty and students, who were to be \"coequal partners\". Meiklejohn called for a small school with a maximum of 35 professors and 300 students, with tutorial as the chief means of instruction. The planned program eschewed division by academic discipline and preferred holistic study of human civilization, particularly ancient Athens and the contemporary United States. The school sought to foster students who understood themselves in the context of their surrounding society as a \"total human undertaking\". Meiklejohn wanted students who would independently volunteer to live in self-governance. Meiklejohn biographer Adam Nelson wrote that for the 1920s, this idea of voluntary interest in study \"seemed almost laughable\". The augmented liberal arts program was a departure from vocational education trends of the time, as was its emphasis on smaller classes in a time of large lectures for burgeoning college populations.\n\nFrank stepped down from the magazine in May 1925 to become the incoming president of the University of Wisconsin (UW). He invited Meiklejohn to open his school there and offered him a distinguished professorship. Meiklejohn planned the experimental college in secret and moved to Madison in January 1926 to teach in the philosophy department. Meiklejohn finished his experimental college proposal by April 1926. It was similar in style to his \"Century\" article and became codified as the Experimental College based on its colloquial reference in correspondence between Meiklejohn and Frank. Meiklejohn presented his proposal to the All-University Study Commission convened by Frank \"to investigate the first two years of liberal college work\". The university faculty received the proposal apprehensively, and criticized its vagueness, lack of control group, costliness, and effect on their livelihoods. It was eventually approved on the condition that the faculty could review its details and regular progress. The Wisconsin legislature approved two years of funding, and the Experimental College was scheduled to open in fall 1927.\n\nMeiklejohn prioritized compatibility in his staff selection, and so hired ten of his friends who could work in \"intimate fellowship\". The college received hundreds of faculty applications in the summer of 1926, and the final makeup included six from Amherst, two from Brown, and one from Scotland, mostly in idealist philosophy and labor economics disciplines. The team met through the winter and into the 1927 spring to plan the program. They received 119 applications even though the program was unadvertised. Half of the applicant pool was interested in working with Meiklejohn specifically, and he was excited to work with \"an entirely self-selected and therefore truly democratic community of learning.\"\n\nMeiklejohn's Experimental College proposal called for two years of compulsory and interdisciplinary study of civilizations: ancient Athens for freshmen, and contemporary America for sophomores. The plan had students and teachers living and working together in the same residence hall with no fixed schedule, no compulsory lessons, and no semester grades, but a common syllabus. Their only grade was to be the single final exam. The college aimed \"to inspire students to want to learn\" and to teach democracy through \"the intrinsic value of learning\" over bribery, coercion, and physical violence.\n\nMeiklejohn saw books as the main instrument of a liberal education, and chose a great books curriculum so as to model the human intellect he wished to impart and to connect the timeless philosophical questions that occupy all such works. He wanted his college to read the same books and to debate the same questions simultaneously. Meiklejohn did not prefer one \"great book\" over another and saw them as interchangeable and in pursuit of the same essential questions about goodness, justice, and truth. Freshmen studied ancient Athens in the age of Pericles, reading authors such as Aeschylus, Herodotus, Homer, Plato, Thucydides, and Xenophon. Meiklejohn's curriculum accentuated the author's thoughts behind the work as related to general questions about society, and forewent emphasis on the texts themselves.\n\nPlato's \"The Republic\" was the freshman year capstone, as \"the apex of literary and philosophical achievement in ancient Athenian thought\" and the book that best embodied their civilization. Meiklejohn asked the students to synthesize how the contents of their first year were \"interrelated in the experience of the individuals and of the community as a whole\". Over the summers, Meiklejohn assigned Middletown studies where students drew conclusions about American society based a view of their hometowns as typical of society. The returning sophomores were expected to exhibit self-regulation as the primary regulator of their understanding, to educate themselves self-sufficiently, and to wean themselves of the college institution. This freedom was taught so as to empower students towards independence while the advisers continued to hold pedagogical power. Henry Adams's \"The Education of Henry Adams\" was the sophomore year capstone, chosen for its complexity, self-criticism, and study of modern America's development. Meiklejohn biographer Adam Nelson compared the Ex College curriculum and Adams's autobiography as both lamenting \"the tragedy of lost spiritual and intellectual unity\" and enabling students to relate \"their literary and lived experiences\".\n\n All extracurricular groups were student-led. Clubs included the Philosophy Club (held weekly at Meiklejohn's house), the Law Group, the Forum, and the Experimental College Players (a theater troupe). The Philosophy Club discussed topics such as the self and the relation between philosophy and science, for which Meiklejohn invited Clarence Ayres from Amherst to speak. The Law Group discussed liberty, state action, and \"laissez-faire\", while the Forum discussed current events like war, behaviorism, and imperialism. The Players performed classical plays including \"Antigone\", \"The Clouds\", Euripides's \"Electra\", and \"Lysistrata\", which caused a particular stir for its cross-gender acting in erotic scenes. The English department chair and dean of women both castigated President Frank for letting the play run. Meiklejohn also invited several prominent speakers, including Bertrand Russell, Clarence Darrow, Frank Lloyd Wright, and Lewis Mumford.\n\n The College was based in Adams Hall, where students and their advisers lived and worked by the shore of Lake Mendota (except for Meiklejohn, who lived in a large house several blocks away). Adams Hall was constructed in 1926, with a Renaissance-style quad and eight identical divisions, each with its own common room, den, and facilities for 30 students, two advisers, and a fellow. The surrounding facilities afforded abundant sporting opportunities, and the site offered distance from the city and university. The students shared part of Adams Hall with non-Experimental College students, and the nearby common dining hall with the UW students in Tripp Hall. The other students were said to be bothered by the Experimental College's disregard for property, rambunctiousness, noise, and dining hall biscuit fights.\n\nThe first class arrived in fall 1927. The incoming Experimental College class was more diverse than the larger university's population. One third of students hailed from Wisconsin (as opposed to 90 percent in the university), most were from urban areas (the East Coast had particularly strong representation), one third were second-generation immigrants, and Meiklejohn estimated their Jewish population at 40 percent. The College was all-male, due in part to space availability and the regents' refusal of mixed-sex living arrangements, in keeping with American college conventions. The students were largely well-versed in current affairs, with higher scores on entrance exams and lower high school grades than their UW counterparts. Meiklejohn appreciated the challenges of reconciling this diversity and related this task to those facing the country's democratic governance.\n\nAs freshmen struggled with the Athenian curriculum, he reverted to classification by academic discipline and offered companion texts in the field of the current work studied. In their dorms, the college students were known for their lack of respect for property, with three times the breakage in dorm assets than the rest of the university. Meiklejohn saw this as desirable and indicative of abetting nonconformity, and did not attempt to curb it. Meiklejohn had full reign over the college, so the university and its disciplinary proceedings could not intervene. Upon their exit two years later, students transferred to a number of Ivy League and prominent state universities. By this time, the college was known throughout the nation and Europe.\n\nThe college was reputed to be a radical institution. A judge presiding over a case involving three students in a socialist march declared the school \"a hotbed of radical activity\". Meiklejohn bemoaned this characterization of his school and blamed the college's media prominence for disproportionate coverage of an avant-garde minority. Two such cases included a former student who announced his Communist Party gubernatorial bid from jail, and another who organized a labor march with the college's students that ended in a face-off described as \"bearded 'Experimenters'\" against varsity athletes \"bent on 'smashing the heads of the Reds'\". The Experimental College students acted differently from those of the rest of the university. They grew beards, wore their hair long, carried an air of apathy conspicuously, and did not tend as meticulously to their outward presentation. They developed a tradition of wearing dark blue blazers with pearl gray trim, emblazoned with the owl of Athena, worn in the \"spirit of fellowship\" and to set the college apart from the university. Many of the advisers (including Meiklejohn) were indeed progressive-minded activists.\n\nDespite their stereotypical \"queerness\", \"The Daily Cardinal\" reported in 1930 that a majority of Experimental College students participated in sport, and that a number joined intramural teams, pledged for Greek life, and joined campus clubs. However, the students abnormally read an average of 16 non-assigned books each semester and had an average of \"only two dates a month\", which the paper considered abnormal amid hints of homosexuality. As these claims became widespread, Meiklejohn imported psychiatrist Frankwood Williams from New York to study the students' sexual habits. He found the students to be \"warped and twisted\" as \"normal for ... their age\", praised the program for aiding their psychosexual growth where others inhibit, and concluded that the advisers made the students subservient to their demands even as they spoke in praise of student autonomy.\n\n With the onset of the Great Depression in 1929, the Experimental College began a slow decline. Many students couldn't afford tuition, fewer had additional savings, and several dropped out. Along with books and campus salaries, the Experimental College became a budgetary luxury during a time of economic need for both students and the state, and its funding was in jeopardy. Meiklejohn started an Experimental College interest-fee loan fund for unfunded students, and asked advisers and monied students to donate. During this period, some sophomores absconded the college for two weeks to live like the vagrant hobos who traveled the Midwest by rail looking for work. They returned to write papers about their experiences, which Meiklejohn is said to have appreciated for its syncretism of experience and the great questions grounded in their readings.\n\nA 1930 faculty review of the curriculum questioned the program's focus and choice of civilizations. The advisers entertained the Enlightenment, Middle Ages, and Renaissance as alternatives to their ancient Athens curriculum, but ultimately did not change course. By early 1930, Meiklejohn began to show a loss of faith in the experiment and in education reform, chiefly in the ability to teach \"rational self-criticism\". Around the same time, Meiklejohn received letters from the Baraboo, Wisconsin, schools superintendent and a Baraboo judge noting the Experimental College's sordid reputation in the state and its habit of repelling \"ordinary\" students whose parents were uninterested in the ramifications of such an education. Within the community, a January 1930 student committee reported a widespread lack of individual responsibility in their living arrangements. Parents began to complain about the college's public esteem, the qualities forming in their sons, and the curriculum. The experiment was in ill repute.\n\nEnrollment dropped every year since the program's inception such that, when compounded by dropouts, the program was below half-capacity three years later. UW President Glenn Frank had warned of decreased enrollment in August 1928 and of its consequences for the college. UW College of Letters and Science Dean George Sellery offered support conditional on codified discipline and uniform final exams, which Meiklejohn refused. Sellery later refused to allow transfer students into the college. Meiklejohn wrote letters to Wisconsin high schools in April 1929 that acknowledged the college's stereotypes and welcomed demographic change, but the campaign backfired. He sent an adviser to tour the state and solve what he saw as a communication issue. The adviser found high school seniors largely interested in vocational training, and that the prospect of traditional college excited students to the point where they did not consider improvements upon that model. The adviser found students uninterested in the Experimental College's prospects.\n\nThe locals saw Meiklejohn as an outsider. He was foreign to Madison in his politics, social life, and personality. Dean Sellery and President Frank's professional relationship was untrusting and contemptuous, which extended to Meiklejohn due to his close association with Frank. Sellery had the support of the faculty, who were envious of the Experimental College advisers' arrangements for higher salaries. In objection to the college's reputation for radicalism, the son of the man who endowed Meiklejohn's professorship revoked his funding. Frank needed the donor's support, and so the incident marked Frank's waning support for the college. Sellery spoke out against the Experimental College in the first quarter of 1929, and Frank attempted to fire him in response. In 1931, Sellery received letters from spies who found Meiklejohn's son Donald, a philosophy doctoral student at the university and a part-time Experimental College adviser, engaged in sex acts against university policy. Sellery pursued expulsion and denied Meiklejohn and his son's separate requests for a lesser punishment. A week later, Meiklejohn asked the advisers to close the college.\n\nCommon public explanations for the college's closure include student radicalism, lack of discipline, administrative issues, and financial issues. \"The Nation\"s Eliseo Vivas blamed its lack of grades as detrimental to student incentive, and judged the effort to create self-motivated students through freedom to be a failure. In \"School and Society\", Professor Grant Showerman also credited the college's freedoms and lack of compulsions with its demise. Proponents of the Experimental College painted it as the foil of a conservative, standard college, and blamed educational stagnation on the existing order. Meiklejohn believed in a liberal education's power to change society through imagining alternatives to the status quo. He aimed to produce students who could counterbalance society with independence of thought, but admitted that he did not know how to facilitate this.\n\nThe University of Wisconsin faculty and regents voted to end the Experimental College in May 1932. There was a farewell banquet for 250 guests in June 1932. Meiklejohn did not judge the college's success by its permanence, which he did not expect—he said he attempted the college as a test. Meiklejohn asked Sellery to give his graduate student advisers university assistantships, but was denied. Meiklejohn began to work on adult education in the University of Wisconsin Extension Division in July 1932, where some of the Experimental College's ideas took hold. He later moved to Berkeley. Advisers who stayed after the program's end—such as classicist Walter Agard, philosopher Carl Bögholt, and political scientist John Gaus—were known as popular and innovative, and Agard became the Classics department chair.\n\nMeiklejohn wrote a retrospective of the Experimental College during the first half of 1932. John Dewey reviewed the published book and declared it \"a contribution to the philosophy of American education\". He saw the college to be a true expression of liberal education as it fostered rational faculties and self-criticism, and noted the college's place in fighting norms on a much larger timescale. For its ability to produce free-thinkers in an age without similar values, Dewey found the college \"a tragic success\".\n\nIn \"The University of Wisconsin: A Pictorial History\", Arthur Hove states that the Experimental College \"had little discernible influence beyond the university\", though it served as a prototype for the university's Integrated Liberal Studies (ILS) program, spawned interest in learning, and showed the university's role in making individuals as well as workers. Cronon and Jenkins' \"The University of Wisconsin: A History, 1925–1945\" notes the college's recognition as the \"best known example of [Wisconsin] curricular innovation\" at the time, and blamed the college's closure on the depression but more so \"the hubris of its architects\" for not evangelizing its value to Wisconsinites and UW faculty. Cronon and Jenkins also saw the college's influence in Charles Russell Bardeen's fourth-year medical school preceptor program, the academic recommendations from the 1930 Fish and 1940 Daniels Committees, and the inception of Integrated Liberal Studies. Similar to the Experimental College, the Integrated Liberal Studies started in the late 1940s was a great books, liberal arts, tutorial curriculum. It was developed in part by Agard, the Classics professor and former Experimental College adviser. An English professor described ILS's ambience as that of a \"small college\" within a large university. Meiklejohn received an honorary Doctor of Letters degree from Madison in June 1964, where he was escorted by the first ILS director, Robert Pooley.\n\nA 1939 announcement described him as \"one of the university's greatest teachers\". Notable alumni include Victor Wolfson, a Broadway playwright and founder of the college's theater group.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12320470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12320470", "title": "University of the Philippines Los Baños College of Forestry and Natural Resources", "text": "University of the Philippines Los Baños College of Forestry and Natural Resources\n\nThe University of the Philippines Los Baños College of Forestry and Natural Resources (also referred to as CFNR) is one of the 11 degree-granting units of the University of the Philippines Los Baños (UPLB). It started as the Forest School under the UP College of Agriculture in 1910, making it the oldest forestry school in the Philippines. It is one of the five founding units of UPLB upon its establishment in 1972.\n\nThe college has been identified as a \"Center of Excellence\" in forestry by the Philippine Commission on Higher Education since January 2000. CFNR offers one undergraduate degree program (Bachelor of Science in Forestry) along with four other graduate degree programs and one two-year certificate program. Two of its professors, including its current dean, are members of the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change, the 2007 recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nCFNR traces its roots to the Forest School founded in April 14, 1910, through an Act 1989 by the Insular Government of the Philippines and efforts by Secretary of the Interior, Dean Conant Worcester. It was originally established as a department in the newly established of the College of Agriculture, and all of its early faculty were from the Bureau of Forestry. The Forest School became independent of the College of Agriculture in February 1916 through Act 2578. Since then directors of the bureau had acted as ex officio deans of the school. The Forest School changed its name to School of Forestry in 1924 by effect of Act 3095.\n\nArthur Frederick Fischer, the School of Forestry's first dean, retired as director of the Bureau of Forestry in February 1936. He was replaced by Florencio Tamesis who became the School of Forestry's second dean, as well as its first Filipino dean.\n\nThe Second World War devastated the campus. All the School of Forestry buildings, including student and faculty houses, were destroyed. Large parts of the Makiling Forest Reserve, which is administered by the school were likewise damaged. Only four faculty including Tamesis and silviculture professor Teodoro C. Delizo, along with five students returned upon the resumption of classes. Classes were held under trees until its buildings could be reconstructed through the help of war reparation funds worth ₱59,300 (US$1,380).\n\nThe School of Forestry became the College of Forestry on June 14, 1949, by effect of RA 352, with the College of Forestry finally separated from the Bureau of Forestry in 1957, effectively putting it under direct administration of the University of the Philippines.\n\nIn 1954 the College of Forestry signed an agreement with Cornell University for providing academic and financial assistance. The College of Forestry received visiting professors from Cornell and grants that were used for construction and forestry research, while faculty and students were awarded scholarships for pursuing master's degrees at US universities.\n\nDomingo M. Lantican became the dean of the College of Forestry in May 1966. Lantican implemented a 5-year campus development program which included construction of new buildings and designating areas for dormitories and staff housing.\n\nThe College of Forestry was reorganized to become the College of Forestry and Natural Resources on June 25, 1998. Since 2004 the event has been celebrated in concurrence with the Philippine Arbor Day, a nationwide event marked by extensive tree planting.\n\nThe campus of the College of Forestry and Natural Resources, referred to as the \"upper campus\", is situated on the northeastern slope of Mount Makiling. The campus contains academic buildings, dormitories, hosted institutions (such as the ASEAN Center for Biodiversity), and the 4,347-hectare Makiling Forest Reserve (MFR), which serves as an outdoor laboratory for forestry students and is believed to contain more tree species than the continental United States.\n\nAside from being the location of the college, the MFR is also the site of the College of Public Affairs, National Arts Center, Philippine High School for the Arts, the venue of the National Jamboree of the Boy Scouts of the Philippines (BSP), the Center for Philippine Raptors and the Bureau of Plant Industry-Makiling Botanic Gardens, one of the oldest parts of the campus. The gardens occupy the site where the tents were used as classrooms during the first four months of the university.\n\nThe MFR serves as an outdoor laboratory to students, primarily of the College of Forestry and Natural Resources. ₱5 million (US$156,000) was designated for its conservation and development in 2011. The MFR was created in 1910 under the Bureau of Forestry. Jurisdiction over the MFR was transferred to the UP in 1960. NAPOCOR acquired complete jurisdiction of the MFR, however, in 1987 as part of the Philippines' energy development program under President Corazon Aquino. The MFR was returned to UPLB three years later by effect of RA 6967. In 2008 representative Del De Guzman of the 2nd district of Makati filed HB 1143 which, if passed into law, would have transferred jurisdiction of the MFR to the Boy Scouts of the Philippines. The bill was strongly opposed by the UPLB, citing possible mismanagement and deforestation of the site if placed under the BSP among others.\n\nThe College of Forestry and Natural Resources is managed by a dean, currently Juan M. Pulhin, who is appointed by the UP Board of Regents, and assisted by an associate dean. Prior to the college's separation from the Bureau of Forestry in 1957, the deans of the College of Forestry and its predecessors were not appointed by the board but were the directors of the Bureau of Forestry acting as ex officio heads of the college. Due to the distance of the Bureau of Forestry in Manila from the Forest School in Los Baños (about 64 kilometers), directors of the bureau appointed foresters-in-charge to manage the school, a practice which continued until 1957.\n\nThe College of Forestry and Natural Resources is a founding member of the Asia Pacific of Forestry Research Institutions, and the CFNR Institute of Agroforestry is a member of the Philippine Agroforestry Education and Research Network.\n\nCFNR offers one undergraduate degree program (Bachelor of Science in Forestry), four graduate degree programs and one certificate program. It started offering master's and doctor's degrees in 1966 and 1973, respectively. The college produces about 100 graduates every year and has been identified as a \"Center of Excellence\" in forestry by the Philippine Commission on Higher Education since January 2000.\n\nAdmission to the BS Forestry program is done through the University of the Philippines College Admission Test, while a Certificate in Forestry applicants are screened by a test administered by CFNR. Admission to graduate programs are managed by the Graduate School. Of its 394 students in 2008, 61 and 295 were enrolled in its Certificate in Forestry and BS Forestry programs, respectively, while the rest are in its graduate degree programs. As of 2009 it had 393 students enrolled in all of its programs. 38 of its faculty hold PhDs.\n\nWhile all of its 20 students when the Forest School opened were male, more than 60% of the students of the college were female as of 2003. Women first enrolled in the college in 1951. Other forestry schools in the Philippines have also experienced a similar increase in female enrollment.\nThe graduates of the college has maintained substantially good performance in the forestry license exams conducted by the Professional Regulation Commission. For instance, the mean passing rates of its graduates in the exams for the years 2008–2010 is 92.49%. This is almost double of the mean national passing rate for the same period. Furthermore, six of its graduates belonged to the top ten best performing students in the 2010 exam, while four belonged to the top ten in both 2008 and 2009 exams. (see table)\n\nThe CFNR Library holds about 30,000 publications which mostly focus on forestry and related disciplines. The library has a floor area of 974.64 sq. m, and is open 40 hours a week.\n\nThe Museum of Natural History of the University of the Philippines Los Baños, established in 1976, is located in the campus. It holds over 200,000 biological specimens; including half of the samplings from the Philippine Water Bug Inventory Project. More than half of the museum's specimens are in its entomological collection. While most of the museum's collections are in its main building, some are housed in other UPLB units.\n\nIn 2002 the college had 94 researchers working in its eight research units. This includes the Makiling Center for Mountain Ecosystems, believed to be the first institution in the Philippines devoted to the study of mountain ecology. It also manages the Makiling Forest Reserve and has launched programs promoting its conservation.\n\nThe Forest Products Research and Development Institute, founded as the Forest Products Laboratory under the Bureau of Forestry in 1954, is hosted in the campus. Managed by the Department of Science and Technology of the government of the Philippines, it is engaged in paper science and bioenergy research, among others. It has also generated technologies such as those for biomass energy generation and construction. Its facilities, believed to be the \"largest and best equipped in the eastern hemisphere\" by the time of its construction, were patterned after the University of Wisconsin's Forest Products Laboratory. It was built using US grants worth US$239,552 and funding from the Philippine government worth ₱518,000 (US$12,000). It had a total budget of almost ₱87 million (US$2.01 million) in 2011, with about ₱51 million (US$1.18 million) of this appropriated for research.\n\nThe Training Center for Tropical Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, established in June 1998 by the UP Board of Regents, offers more than 300 training programs in forest and land management, logging, and related disciplines. It has a satellite office in Baguio which offers similar programs. Its programs are designed for professionals in working in the agroforestry-related disciplines and the wood industry.\n"}
{"id": "47973119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47973119", "title": "Varkey Foundation", "text": "Varkey Foundation\n\nThe Varkey Foundation, initially the Varkey GEMS Foundation, is a global charitable foundation focused on improving the standards of education for underprivileged children. It was formed in 2010 by Indian businessman Sunny Varkey, the founder and chairman of GEMS Education, the world's largest operator of kindergarten-to-grade-12 schools. The foundation's main focuses are improving global teacher capacity by training tens of thousands of teachers and principals in developing countries; providing access to education via a variety of programmes and projects; and advocating for change in, and conducting research that can help develop, education policies worldwide.\n\nThe Varkey Foundation has partnered with a variety of major global organizations including UNESCO, UNICEF, and the Clinton Global Initiative. In 2013 it launched the Global Education and Skills Forum, an annual education summit dedicated to addressing the world's educational needs. After analyzing the public status of teachers worldwide, in 2014 it launched the annual Global Teacher Prize, a $1million award to an outstanding pioneering teacher who has had a widespread impact.\n\nThe foundation was formed by Sunny Varkey in 2010 as the strategic philanthropic arm of GEMS Education, and was initially called the Varkey GEMS Foundation. Its stated intention is to impact 100 impoverished children for every child enrolled at GEMS schools, or 10 million children globally, via projects such as enrollment and education-access initiatives, worldwide teacher-training programs, advocacy campaigns, policy input through strategic partnerships, and physical projects such as building classrooms, schools, and learning centers. Bill Clinton launched the foundation.\n\nBeginning in 2013, the foundation's Teacher Training Programme committed to train 250,000 teachers within 10 years in under-served communities across the world. The programme began in Uganda in May 2013, and consists of a low-cost, five-day training which the recipients then cascade by training further teachers in their country. In its first year the programme trained 6,000 teachers in Uganda, and by mid 2015 it had reached 12,000 teachers. The program is broadening to other developing countries in Africa and elsewhere.\n\nThe teacher training programme moves lessons away from focusing on students' ability to remember and repeat facts; instead, it focuses on encouraging students to apply, analyse, and create based on what they remember. The programme trains teachers to create a culture of personalised learning, with greater student participation, cooperative learning activities, and exploration of ideas. Rather than simply relying on \"chalk and talk\" methods of standing at the front of the classroom, teachers are taught to interact with students, and to accommodate different learning needs – including those of pupils who learn best through visual, auditory, or kinesthetic methods.\n\nIn 2013, the foundation launched the annual Global Education and Skills Forum, in partnership with UNESCO and the UAE Ministry of Education. Bill Clinton gave the inaugural keynote address at the 2013 summit.\n\nThe annual conference, which meets in Dubai in March each year, focuses on addressing the world’s educational needs, including how to achieve education for the hundreds of millions of uneducated or under-educated children in the developing world. The event is attended by hundreds of delegates from 35 to 50 countries, and speakers and participants include education ministers, current and former heads of state, business leaders, academics, and representatives of governments and NGOs. The forum also aims to increase the importance of global education issues in the concerns of large-scale philanthropy, international aid, and businesses.\n\nIn October 2013, the foundation published the Global Teacher Status Index, a 53-page study on the public and social status of teachers in 21 countries around the world. The Indian subcontinent and sub-Saharan Africa were not included in the survey. In-depth opinion polling was done by Populus Ltd, and 1,000 respondents were polled in each country. Half a million data points were collected regarding what the general public thinks about the teaching profession and teachers, and the study examined public attitudes to professional status, trust, pay, and the desirability of teaching as a career.\n\nTeacher status in the public eye was found to be highest in China, Greece, and Turkey, and lowest in Israel and Brazil. The U.S. and UK were in the middle. Only in China were teachers regarded as having the same status as doctors. In the UK and most other countries, teachers were most likely to be compared to social workers, whereas in the U.S., Brazil, France, and Turkey teachers were regarded as most similar to librarians, and therefore were viewed as less interactive with students. Parents in countries with a higher respect for teachers were more likely to encourage their children to become teachers. In many countries – including Japan, Brazil, Germany, France, and Italy – between one third and one half of parents would not encourage their children to enter the teaching profession.\n\nIn order to raise the status of teaching, at the second annual Global Education and Skills Forum in March 2014, the foundation launched the Global Teacher Prize, an annual $1 million award to an exceptional teacher who has made an outstanding contribution to the profession.\n\nIn 2014 the Varkey Foundation, together with UNESCO, co-created Business Backs Education, a global advocacy campaign that encourages businesses, companies, and corporations to support education to the same degree that they support other basic services such as healthcare. Bill Clinton co-launched the initiative, which was launched in March 2014 at the second annual Global Education and Skills Forum, and BBE held its New York Summit at the September 2014 annual meeting of the Clinton Global Initiative.\n\nOn the grounds that skills shortages negatively impact companies' ability to prosper and innovate, and inequalities in educational opportunity also weaken the social and political stability needed for businesses to thrive, the BBE campaign recommends that companies worldwide allocate at least 20% of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) spending to educational initiatives by the year 2020.\n\nIn January 2015 the campaign published a report, \"Business Backs Education\", analyzing the charitable education donations of the global top 500 companies, recommending that education be a higher priority for corporate social responsibility spending. The study revealed that the Fortune Global 500 companies spend an average of only 13% of their CSR budget on education-related activities, and less than half of the Fortune Global 500 spend any funds on education-related CSR.\n\nIn Ghana, the Varkey Foundation implements MGCubed – Making Ghana Girls Great – which equips two classrooms in each Ghanaian primary school with a computer, projector, satellite modem, and solar panels, creating an interactive distance-learning platform to deliver both formal in-school teaching and informal after-school training. The project, funded by the UK's Department for International Development (DFID), teaches 8,000 students in 72 Ghanaian schools, and is Sub-Saharan Africa's first interactive distance-learning project. The program, which was founded by GEMS Education Solutions in 2014, aims to prevent dropping out and under-achieving among girls. Students participate more in these classes, in contrast to the standard system of learning by rote, and the video system also cuts down on teacher absenteeism. Each week, the project also brings in a role model – a successful Ghanaian woman – to speak to the students nationwide.\n\nThe Varkey Foundation engages in a variety of projects and programs worldwide. Some of these additional projects include supporting the UNICEF Schools for Asia programme in the Philippines, Papua New Guinea, India, Nepal, and Vietnam; supporting the professional development of teachers in Palestine and providing pre-school education in Palestine camps; and establishing Learning Resource Centres in India.\n\nThe foundation has also rebuilt damaged and destroyed schools in areas including Kenya and Pakistan; provided clean water and toilets in 25 schools in Tanzania; and provided schools meals to improve access to education in India \n\nSome of the Varkey Foundation's partners and grantees include UNESCO, UNICEF, the Clinton Global Initiative, Oxfam, Pratham, Dubai Cares, and the Brookings Institution. The Varkey Foundation also offers strategic input and consultancy to NGO partners, including a special emphasis on campaigning on issues to increase the capacity of education systems in the developing world.\n\nSunny Varkey is the founder and chairman of the Varkey Foundation. The foundation's trustees are Sunny Varkey and his sons Dino and Jay Varkey.\n\nThe foundation's chief executive officer is Vikas Pota, who was named a World Economic Forum Young Global Leader in 2013, and was elected to the Fellowship of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce in 2014. He is the author of \"India Inc: How India's Top Ten Entrepreneurs Are Winning Globally\". He also serves on several global education panels and advisory boards – including, for UNESCO, the Girls & Female Education Panel, the Teachers Task Force, and the Global Alliance of Corporate Partners for Education.\n\nThe global advisory board of the Varkey Foundation includes Andreas Schleicher, director for education and skills and special advisor on education policy to the secretary-general at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD); Bertie Ahern, former prime minister of Ireland; Aliko Dangote, founder of the Dangote Group; Nizan Guanaes, chairman of Grupo ABC; Lim Hwee Hua, executive director of Tembusu Partners and former Singaporean MP; and V Shankar, chief executive officer of Europe, Middle East, Africa and Americas at Standard Chartered.\n\n"}
