{"id": "2634515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2634515", "title": "Adriano Olivetti", "text": "Adriano Olivetti\n\nAdriano Olivetti (born on 11 April 1901 in Ivrea, Piedmont, died 27 February 1960 on a train from Milan to Lausanne) was an Italian engineer, politician and industrialist whose entrepreneurial activity thrived on the idea that profit should be reinvested for the benefits of the whole society. He was son of the founder of Olivetti, Camillo Olivetti, and Luisa Revel, the daughter of a prominent Waldensian pastor and scholar. Adriano Olivetti was known worldwide during his lifetime as the Italian manufacturer of Olivetti typewriters, calculators, and computers.\n\nOlivetti was an entrepreneur and innovator who transformed shop-like operations into a modern factory. In and out of the factory, he both practiced and preached the utopian system of \"the community movement,\" but he never managed to build a mass following.\n\nThe Olivetti empire had been begun by his father Camillo. Initially, the \"factory\" (consisting of 30 workers) concentrated on electric measurement devices. By 1908, 25 years after Remington in the United States, Olivetti started to produce typewriters.\n\nAdriano's father Camillo, who was Jewish, believed that his children could get a better education at home. Adriano's formative years were spent under the tutelage of his mother, daughter of the local Waldensian pastor, an educated and sober woman. Also, as a socialist, Camillo emphasized the non-differentiation between manual and intellectual work. His children, during their time away from study, worked with and under the same conditions as his workers. The discipline and sobriety Camillo imposed on his family induced rebellion in Adriano's adolescence manifested by a dislike of \"his father's\" workplace and by his studying at a polytechnic school of subjects other than the mechanical engineering his father wanted.\n\nNevertheless, after graduation in chemical engineering at the Polytechnic University of Turin in 1924 he joined the company for a short while. When he became undesirable to Mussolini's Fascist regime, his father sent him to the United States to learn the roots of American industrial power. For the same reasons he later went to England. Upon his return he married Paola Levi, a daughter of Giuseppe Levi and a sister of his good friend Natalia Ginzburg; a marriage that produced three children but did not last long.\n\nHis visit to various plants in the United States, and especially Remington, convinced Adriano that productivity is a function of the organizational system. With the approval of father Camillo, he organized the production system at Olivetti on a quasi-Taylorian model and transformed the shop into a factory with departments and divisions. Possibly as a result of this reorganization, output per man-hour doubled within five years. Olivetti for the first time sold half of the typewriters used in Italy in 1933. Adriano Olivetti shared with his workers the productivity gains by increasing salaries, fringe benefits, and services.\n\nIn 1931 he visited the USSR and created an Advertising Department at Olivetti which worked with artists and designers. The creation of an Organization Office followed one year later, when he became general manager, and the project for the first portable typewriter started.\n\nHis success in business did not diminish his idealism. In the 1930s he developed an interest in architecture, as well as urban and community planning. He supervised a housing plan for the workers at Ivrea (a small city near Turin, where the Olivetti plant is still located) and a zoning proposal for the adjacent Aosta Valley. Under Fascism, patronizing workers at work and at home was in line with the corporative design of the regime. While Adriano showed distaste for the regime, he joined the Fascist Party and became a Catholic. Yet during World War II he participated in the underground antifascist movement, was jailed, and at the end sought refuge in Switzerland. There he was in close contact with the intellectual emigrees and he was able to develop further his socio-philosophy of the Community Movement. He also had contacts with representatives of the British Special Operations Executive. With these he tried to avoid Allied invasion of Italy and to obtain a negotiated Italian retreat from the war assuming a mediation of the Holy See and making strong the support that he enjoyed with influential Italian political circles.\n\nDuring the immediate post-war years the Olivetti empire expanded rapidly, only to be briefly on the verge of bankruptcy after the acquisition of Underwood in the late 1950s. During this period, first calculators and then computers replaced the typewriter as a prime production focus. Adriano shared his time between business pursuits and attempts to practice and spread the utopian ideal of community life. His belief was that people who respect each other and their environment can avoid war and poverty. His utopian idea was similar to that preached by Charles Fourier and Robert Owen during the previous century.\n\nIn his enterprises, Adriano Olivetti's attempts at utopia may be translated in practice as actions of an enlightened boss or a form of corporatism. He decreased the hours of work and increased salaries and fringe benefits. By 1957 Olivetti workers were the best paid of all in the metallurgical industry and Olivetti workers showed the highest productivity. His corporatism also succeeded in having his workers accept a company union not tied to the powerful national metallurgical trade unions.\n\nDuring the 1950s, in a limited way, the community movement succeeded politically in Ivrea. (Adriano was even elected mayor of Ivrea in 1956.) But the utopia at the factory and in Italy at large began withering away even before Adriano's death in 1960.\n\nAdriano Olivetti's era saw great changes in Italian business and in industrial relations. New organizational methods were sought and humanistic idealism spread during the cruel time of World War II as well as during the difficult post-war years. The utopia of Olivetti could not have easily survived, but it helped induce the rapid reconversion of Italy's industry from war to peace-time production.\n\n"}
{"id": "48136938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48136938", "title": "Alain Chuard", "text": "Alain Chuard\n\nAlain Chuard is a Swiss serial entrepreneur and former professional snowboarder living in Palo Alto, California. He is best known as the founder and Chief product officer of Wildfire Interactive, the social media marketing technology company acquired by Google in July 2012.\n\nChuard was born in Bern and raised in the Swiss town of Bolligen. His father and uncle were both entrepreneurs.\n\nChuard competed on the snowboard World-Cup Pro Tour while in high school. From 1994-96, he was ranked in the top 4 snowboarders in Switzerland. Chuard was sponsored by Burton Snowboards and has been featured in various snowboarding publications including the cover of \"Transworld Snowboarding\".\n\nChuard left Switzerland at the age of 20 after completing his high school matura. Chuard studied mathematics and economics at Macalester College. He has an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.\n\nAfter graduating from Macalester College, he spent two years working as a financial analyst for Salomon Smith Barney in New York City. He then left Wall Street to start the adventure travel company, Access Trips, in 2001. While getting his MBA, he also built an online booking and CRM software called IncFuel Corp. In the summer of 2007, he was an Entrepreneur in Residence at Highland Capital Partners in Boston.\n\nIn 2008, Chuard developed the software Promotion Builder as an online marketing tool used for promoting Access Trips through social media. Promotion Builder became Wildfire Interactive and within four years, Wildfire grew to a company with 400 employees. In 2010, Chuard sold Access Trips in order to focus on Wildfire. In July 2012, Google purchased Wildfire for a reported $450 million. Since 2014, he leads the Google My Business division. He is a Henry Crown Fellow of the Aspen Institute.\n\nChuard married Victoria Ransom in March 2013. They met in December 1999 while studying at Macalester College. He speaks four languages and is one of the 300 wealthiest people in Switzerland.\n"}
{"id": "16368170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16368170", "title": "Alain Deneef", "text": "Alain Deneef\n\nAlain Deneef (born 26 March 1960) is a Belgian entrepreneur.\n\nAs an expert in urban issues and civil society, he is the founder and president of Aula Magna. He helped to launch the Citizen’s Forum of Brussels. This endeavour won the Flemish in July 2010. Within Aula Magna he organized the first Brussels Citizens University (2010). Four Brussels Summer Universities have followed since then on a yearly basis.\n\nAs businessman, he has held top management positions in Canal+ Belgium (now BeTV (Belgium)), Belgacom and the SNCB - the Belgian railway company, among others, and several positions as director in BT Belgium, CIT Blaton and Carmeuse.\n\nHe has been intendant of Brussels Metropolitan.\n\nA strategic consultant, he helps medium and large organizations foresee the impact of technological, financial, social, demographic, environmental, urban and political change on their future. On this basis, he offers his expertise to Up4North, an association of property owners of the Northern area, aiming to reinvigorate this business district in Brussels.\n\nHe has served as president of a number of clubs and associations amongst which the Alumni association of the . Since August 2013, he is the president of the World Union of Jesuit Alumni (WUJA). He was also president of the Brussels chapter of the Young Presidents' Organization (YPO) and is currently a member of the World Presidents’ Organizsation (WPO).\n\nHe is the Executive Officer of the European Quarter Fund. He is also involved as president in the European Quarter Area Management Association (EQuAMA). \n\nIn the sport field, he is the Secretary General of the European Sports Academy (ESA). He is further a director of the Brussels Studies Institute.\n\nHe founded a publishing company, Prosopon Editions.\n\nHe was educated at the Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB), where he obtained the degrees of Business Engineer (Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management) and Law and Philosophy (1984). More recently, also a Master in History at the same university. He is fluent in Dutch, English, French and German. He lives in Ixelles (Brussels Region).\n\n"}
{"id": "32751103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32751103", "title": "Alan Cransberg", "text": "Alan Cransberg\n\nAlan John Cransberg (born 22 September 1958) is an Australian businessman and former Australian rules footballer who is the current chairman of the West Coast Eagles in the Australian Football League, as well as a member of the boards of several other organisations. Cransberg grew up in Bunbury, Western Australia, attending Bunbury Senior High School. He played for the South Bunbury Football Club in the South West Football League (SWFL), before being recruited by the Swan Districts Football Club in the Perth-based Western Australian National Football League (WANFL) prior to the 1976 season. Cransberg went on to play 115 games for Swan Districts, mainly playing as a defender. He played at centre half-back in Swan Districts' 1982 premiership team, and also played in the premiership side the following season, retiring after the 1983 season to concentrate on his business career. Cransberg graduated from the University of Western Australia in 1980 with an honours degree in civil engineering. He joined Alcoa Australia after his graduation, and held various planning, engineering and managerial positions from 1981 to 1997, before being appointed location manager of the company's Pinjarra alumina refinery in 1998.\n\nIn 2001, Cransberg moved to Texas to become location manager of the Point Comfort alumina refinery and chemicals complex, and, in 2003, he was made President, Primary Metals United States Division, with his title expanded in 2004 to President, Primary Metals North America Division. From 2004, he was President, Global Manufacturing for Alcoa's Global Primary Products group, based in New York City, and later served as chairman of Alcoa's Employee Relations Council. Cransberg was made a vice-president of Alcoa in 2006. Returning to Australia in 2008, he was promoted to the position of managing director of Alcoa Australia. In this role, he participated in the Australia 2020 Summit as part of the \"Productivity Agenda\" group. He joined the West Coast Eagles' board in 2008, and was appointed chairman for the 2011 season, taking over from Mark Barnaba. Cransberg currently also holds board positions with the Australian Institute of Management (AIM), the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Western Australia and the Black Swan State Theatre Company, and is also involved with the Australia Business Arts Foundation (ABAF) in a counselling position. He currently lives in Mandurah, and has four children (Matt, Josie, Jamie, and Sasha) with his wife, Jenny. Cransberg's brother, Peter Cransberg, was also a footballer, and played for and .\n"}
{"id": "11117435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11117435", "title": "Andres D. Bautista", "text": "Andres D. Bautista\n\nJuan Andrés \"Andy\" D. Bautista is the former Chairman of the Commission on Elections (COMELEC) of the Philippines and former Dean of the Institute of Law of Far Eastern University, a private, non-sectarian university in Manila, Philippines.\n\nBautista is a member of the Consultative Commission on Charter Change, an independent body formed in 2005 by President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo to propose revisions to the 1987 Philippine Constitution.\n\nHe is a frequent resource speaker on topics concerning Philippine constitutional law and the state of legal education and profession in the country.\n\nHe was once nominated to be the next Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines.\n\nBautista earned his Bachelor of Science in Legal management degree from Ateneo de Manila University in 1986, a Bachelor of Laws (\"Class Valedictorian\") from Ateneo Law School in 1990, and a Master of Laws from Harvard Law School in 1993.\n\nBautista is the Dean of the Institute of Law at Far Eastern University and the Master of Business Administration-Juris Doctor dual degree program of De La Salle Graduate School of Business and Far Eastern University. He is concurrently the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Makati Shangri-la Plaza Hotel.\n\nBautista was the President of the Philippine Association of Law Schools from 2002 to 2005. He was also a bar reviewer in Constitutional Law at the National Bar Review Consortium (2003-2008), a lecturer in Constitutional Law and Project Finance at the Ateneo Law School and Far Eastern University Institute of Law, a Trustee of the Philippine Judicial Academy, a member of the Supreme Court Committee on Legal Education and Bar Matters, a member of the Governing Board of the Mandatory Continuing Legal Education Office, Vice President for Academic Affairs of the Philippine Constitution Association, as well as director and corporate secretary of the British Chamber of Commerce\n\nWhile still a law student, Bautista served as Judicial Clerk to then Chief Justice Marcelo Fernan from 1989 to 1992.\n\nIn 2014, he was replaced as FEU Law dean by Atty. Mel Sta. Maria.\n\nIn August 2010, Bautista was appointed by President Benigno Aquino III as chairman of the Presidential Commission on Good Government.\nOn April 28, 2015, President Benigno Aquino III signed Bautista's appointment as the new COMELEC chairman. This appointment played an important role in the 2016 General Elections in the Philippines, where many issues and accusations circulated in the media and online social networks about the alleged manipulation of the election results by the dominant political party at the time, Liberal Party (Philippines).\n\nThe camp of losing vice-presidential candidate Ferdinand Marcos, Jr. claimed that reports of irregularities in the hash code of the data provided by the COMELEC's transparency server. To rebuff these claims, COMELEC explains that this happened as the result of the correction of the character 'Ñ' which did not render properly in the output.\n\nAnother accusation claimed by the Marcos camp was the reports of another discrepancy in the data provided by the same transparency server, where the number of votes have been slightly decreased further. Bautista himself explained that this occurred as the result of their intentional act of removing the \"test votes\" which were apparently included in the official vote counts by accident, and reported by the transparency server.\n\nOn October 11, 2017, Bautista announced his intention to resign as chairman of the Commission on Elections by the end of the year following claims by his wife Patricia of unexplained wealth, which he has denied. Hours after announcing his intent to resign, the House of Representatives voted 137–75–2 to impeach Bautista from the post, overturning the House Committee on Justice's earlier decision to discard the impeachment case. The articles of impeachment have yet to reach the Senate, which will serve as the impeachment court. On October 23, President Rodrigo Duterte formally accepted the resignation letter of Bautista effective immediately, instead of the initial date of December 31.\n\nBautista has been a reactor in the \"18th IDP International Education Conference\" in Sydney in 2004, a participant in the bilateral discussions with the University of Nepal Faculty of Law in Kathmandu in 2002 (no such university name in Nepal), a reactor in the \"21st Century Form of Legal Education\" in Beijing in 2001, a delegate in the \"Conference on Obstacles to Third World Development\" in 1988, and Captain of the Philippine Team in the \"World University Debating Championships\" also in 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "49070813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49070813", "title": "Andy Atmodimedjo", "text": "Andy Atmodimedjo\n\nAndy Jozua Atmodimedjo (born March 16, 1967) is a Surinamese football manager and former player, who is currently the manager of Inter Moengotapoe. He spent most of his professional playing career with S.V. Robinhood, winning four Hoofdklasse titles. He had previously played for Producers in the Hoofdklasse before joining Robinhood in 1986.\n\nAfter retiring from playing, he went into management with Puwa Nani, followed by spells with S.V. Robinhood, WBC, Super Red Eagles, FCS Nacional, SV Boskamp, before returning to Puwa Nani in 2011. He has also managed the Suriname senior team and the under-21 team in the past.\n\nBorn in Paramaribo, Suriname, Atmodimedjo began his playing career in the youth ranks of Fajalobi, where he played until 1980. That year he transferred to Tuna, where he played for two seasons, before joining Producers from Pontbuiten. In 1982, Atmodimedjo joined the youth of Producers, before making his Hoofdklasse debut in 1985. He would join S.V. Robinhood after only one season with the club, while also taking his first coaching position with Celtic U-20 competing in the SVCB Randdistrict. In 1986, he joined S.V. Robinhood, where he would play for the remainder of his career. He helped Robinhood win four titles in nine seasons with the club.\nAtmodimedjo played in the youth ranks of the Suriname national team. He played for the under-20 team that made third place at the 1983 CFU Youth Championship. Having played on various youth levels, he never made any appearances for the senior team.\n\nAtmodimedjo took his first coaching position as a player of Robinhood, coaching the youth teams of Celtic. In 1997, he took the managerial position with Randdistrict club Puwa Nani, where he would coach for four seasons. In 2003, he took an apprenticeship with Dutch club AFC Ajax. In the meantime he graduated from the KNVB International Coaching Course in the Netherlands, returning to Suriname and taking a coaching position with his former club S.V. Robinhood as well as Walking Boyz Company. Atmodimedjo helped WBC to win the league title and the Suriname President's Cup in 2004. The year which he was made the interim manager of the Suriname national team.\n\nIn 2005, he managed the Super Red Eagles in the Hoofdklasse, while managing the national under-20 team a year later at the same time. In 2007, he became the manager of FCS Nacional and then SV Boskamp a year later, before returning to Walking Boyz Company. In 2011, he resigned as manager, returning to Puwa Nani, competing in the SCVB Randdistrict but didn't stay there for long. After nearly 5 years he signed a contract to be a coach once again,this time with IMT.He will be the new manager of the 8 time Hoofdklasse champions which will begin in the 2017 season.He signed with IMT because of their intensions of going to the CL.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32518642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32518642", "title": "BizWest", "text": "BizWest\n\nBizWest is a print and electronic business paper in Northern Colorado.\n\nIn 2010, Brown Publishing Company, the owner of the newspapers \"Boulder County Business Report\" and \"Northern Colorado Business Report\" declared bankruptcy and, in September, sold them to Ohio Community Media. In February 2011, the publishers of the two papers formed BizWest Media to acquire their publications, the \"Wyoming Business Report\", and ancillary other assets from Ohio Community Media. In March 2014, the \"Boulder County Business Report\" and \"Northern Colorado Business Report\" were merged into a biweekly printed paper called \"BizWest\", with initial circulation of 9,000 to cover Boulder, Broomfield, Larimer and Weld counties, as well as the Denver-Boulder corridor.\n\nIn September 2016, \"BizWest\" reduced its print publication frequency to monthly and laid off four of its eighteen staff, including one writer. The company cited subscribers shifting to digital-only subscriptions and management's desire to focus on growth areas of the business as reasons for the changes.\n\n"}
{"id": "13463649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13463649", "title": "C. Jackson Grayson", "text": "C. Jackson Grayson\n\nC. Jackson \"Jack\" Grayson, Jr. (October 8, 1923 – May 4, 2017) was the chairman of APQC, dean of two business schools, head of the U.S. Price Commission (1971), a farmer, newspaper reporter and FBI agent. In 1977 he founded APQC as a private sector, non-profit organization.\n\nC. Jackson Grayson was the U.S. chairman of the Price Commission in the United States from 1971 to 1973 under President Richard Nixon. In that position under the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, Grayson oversaw price controls and the process through which companies request permission to increase prices. Grayson gained exposure to productivity issues and how they related to product pricing. Grayson went on to found the American Productivity and Quality Center in 1977 where he resided as chairman and oversaw the organization's public education improvement initiatives.\n\nB.B.A., Tulane University, 1944\n\nM.B.A., Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, 1947\n\nD.B.A., Harvard Business School, 1969\n\n\n\nGrayson has written over 60 monographs, papers, and articles in various publications.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1647998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647998", "title": "Canned response", "text": "Canned response\n\nCanned responses are predetermined responses to common questions.\n\nIn fields such as technical support, canned responses to frequently asked questions may be quick and convenient for both the customer and the technical adviser. In text-based technical support systems, the operator may insert a canned response triggered by keystrokes or from a drop-down menu, rather than typing the same answer repeatedly or pasting from some other resource. For example, if a support representative at an ISP's technical support team is asked to explain how to add an attachment to an email, rather than typing in all the details, the support representative may choose the response from a drop down menu, and it gets inserted into the response. The representative is more productive this way, and the user receives a more carefully crafted answer. Some programs have built-in functions which allow canned responses, and other software is available which can insert canned responses into any other application.\n\nCanned responses, however, can have disadvantages. Sloppy or pressured support people could end up using canned responses as a quick fix when they actually do not really resolve the customer's problem or are only tangentially relevant to the user's problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2978332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978332", "title": "Cathodic arc deposition", "text": "Cathodic arc deposition\n\nCathodic arc deposition or Arc-PVD is a physical vapor deposition technique in which an electric arc is used to vaporize material from a cathode target. The vaporized material then condenses on a substrate, forming a thin film. The technique can be used to deposit metallic, ceramic, and composite films.\n\nIndustrial use of modern cathodic arc deposition technology originated in Soviet Union around 1960–1970.\nBy the late 70's Soviet government released the use of this technology to the West. \nAmong many designs in USSR at that time the design by L. P. Sablev, et al., was allowed to be used outside the USSR.\n\nThe arc evaporation process begins with the striking of a high current, low voltage arc on the surface of a cathode (known as the target) that gives rise to a small (usually a few micrometres wide), highly energetic emitting area known as a cathode spot. The localised temperature at the cathode spot is extremely high (around 15000 °C), which results in a high velocity (10 km/s) jet of vapourised cathode material, leaving a crater behind on the cathode surface. The cathode spot is only active for a short period of time, then it self-extinguishes and re-ignites in a new area close to the previous crater. This behaviour causes the apparent motion of the arc.\n\nAs the arc is basically a current carrying conductor it can be influenced by the application of an electromagnetic field, which in practice is used to rapidly move the arc over the entire surface of the target, so that the total surface is eroded over time.\n\nThe arc has an extremely high power density resulting in a high level of ionization (30-100%), multiple charged ions, neutral particles, clusters and macro-particles (droplets). If a reactive gas is introduced during the evaporation process, dissociation, ionization and excitation can occur during interaction with the ion flux and a compound film will be deposited.\n\nOne downside of the arc evaporation process is that if the cathode spot stays at an evaporative point for too long it can eject a large amount of macro-particles or droplets. These droplets are detrimental to the performance of the coating as they are poorly adhered and can extend through the coating. Worse still if the cathode target material has a low melting point such as aluminium the cathode spot can evaporate through the target resulting in either the target backing plate material being evaporated or cooling water entering the chamber. Therefore, magnetic fields as mentioned previously are used to control the motion of the arc. If cylindrical cathodes are used the cathodes can also be rotated during deposition. By not allowing the cathode spot to remain in one position too long aluminium targets can be used and the number of droplets is reduced. Some companies also use filtered arcs that use magnetic fields to separate the droplets from the coating flux.\n\nSablev type Cathodic arc source, which is the most widely used in the West, consists of a short cylindrical shape electrical conductive target at cathode with one open end. This target has an electrically-floating metal ring surrounded working as an arc confinement ring (Strel'nitskij shield). The anode for the system can be either the vacuum chamber wall or a discrete anode. Arc spots are generated by mechanical trigger (or igniter) striking on open end of the target making a temporarily short circuit between the cathode and anode. After the arc spots being generated they can be steered by magnetic field or move randomly in absence of magnetic field.\n\nThe plasma beam from Cathodic Arc source contains some larger clusters of atoms or molecules (so called macro-particles), which prevent it from being useful for some applications without some kind of filtering.\nThere are many designs for macro-particle filters and the most studied design is based on the work by I. I. Aksenov et al. in 70's. It consists of a quarter-torus duct bent at 90 degrees from the arc source and the plasma is guided out of the duct by principle of plasma optics.\n\nThere are also other interesting designs such as a design which incorporates a straight duct filter built-in with truncated cone shape cathode as reported by D. A. Karpov in the 90's. This design became quite popular among both the thin hard-film coaters and researchers in Russia and former USSR countries until now.\nCathodic arc source can be made into the long tubular shape (extended-arc) or long rectangular shape but both designs are less popular.\n\n \nCathodic arc deposition is actively used to synthesize extremely hard film to protect the surface of cutting tools and extend their life significantly. A wide variety of thin hard-film, Superhard coatings and nanocomposite coatings can be synthesized by this technology including TiN, TiAlN, CrN, ZrN, AlCrTiN and TiAlSiN.\n\nThis is also used quite extensively particularly for carbon ion deposition to create diamond-like carbon films. Because the ions are blasted from the surface ballistically, it is common for not only single atoms, but larger clusters of atoms to be ejected. Thus, this kind of system requires a filter to remove atom clusters from the beam before deposition.\nThe DLC film from filtered-arc contains extremely high percentage of sp diamond which is known as tetrahedral amorphous carbon, or ta-C.\n\nFiltered Cathodic arc can be used as metal ion/plasma source for \"Ion implantation\" and \"Plasma Immersion Ion Implantation and Deposition\" (PIII&D).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "99656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99656", "title": "Creative destruction", "text": "Creative destruction\n\nCreative destruction (German: \"schöpferische Zerstörung\"), sometimes known as Schumpeter's gale, is a concept in economics which since the 1950s has become most readily identified with the Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter who derived it from the work of Karl Marx and popularized it as a theory of economic innovation and the business cycle.\n\nAccording to Schumpeter, the \"gale of creative destruction\" describes the \"process of industrial mutation that incessantly revolutionizes the economic structure from within, incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one\". In Marxian economic theory the concept refers more broadly to the linked processes of the accumulation and annihilation of wealth under capitalism.\n\nThe German Marxist sociologist Werner Sombart has been credited with the first use of these terms in his work \"Krieg und Kapitalismus\" (\"War and Capitalism\", 1913). In the earlier work of Marx, however, the idea of creative destruction or annihilation (German: \"Vernichtung\") implies not only that capitalism destroys and reconfigures previous economic orders, but also that it must ceaselessly devalue existing wealth (whether through war, dereliction, or regular and periodic economic crises) in order to clear the ground for the creation of new wealth.\n\nIn \"Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy\" (1942), Joseph Schumpeter developed the concept out of a careful reading of Marx’s thought (to which the whole of Part I of the book is devoted), arguing (in Part II) that the creative-destructive forces unleashed by capitalism would eventually lead to its demise as a system (see below). Despite this, the term subsequently gained popularity within neoliberal or free-market economics as a description of processes such as downsizing in order to increase the efficiency and dynamism of a company. The Marxian usage has, however, been retained and further developed in the work of social scientists such as David Harvey, Marshall Berman, Manuel Castells and Daniele Archibugi.\n\nAlthough the modern term \"creative destruction\" is not used explicitly by Marx, it is largely derived from his analyses, particularly in the work of Werner Sombart (whom Engels described as the only German professor who understood Marx's \"Capital\"), and of Joseph Schumpeter, who discussed at length the origin of the idea in Marx's work (see below).\n\nIn \"The Communist Manifesto\" of 1848, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels described the crisis tendencies of capitalism in terms of \"the enforced destruction of a mass of productive forces\":\nModern bourgeois society, with its relations of production, of exchange and of property, a society that has conjured up such gigantic means of production and of exchange, is like the sorcerer who is no longer able to control the powers of the nether world whom he has called up by his spells. [...] It is enough to mention the commercial crises that by their periodical return put the existence of the whole of bourgeois society on trial, each time more threateningly. In these crises, \"a great part not only of existing production, but also of previously created productive forces, are periodically destroyed\". In these crises, there breaks out an epidemic that, in all earlier epochs, would have seemed an absurdity – the epidemic of over-production. Society suddenly finds itself put back into a state of momentary barbarism; it appears as if a famine, a universal war of devastation, had cut off the supply of every means of subsistence; industry and commerce seem to be destroyed; and why? Because there is too much civilisation, too much means of subsistence, too much industry, too much commerce. The productive forces at the disposal of society no longer tend to further the development of the conditions of bourgeois property; on the contrary, they have become too powerful for these conditions. […] And how does the bourgeoisie get over these crises? On the one hand by \"enforced destruction of a mass of productive forces\"; on the other, by the conquest of new markets, and by the more thorough exploitation of the old ones. That is to say, by paving the way for more extensive and more destructive crises, and by diminishing the means whereby crises are prevented.\nA few years later, in the \"Grundrisse\", Marx was writing of \"the violent destruction of capital not by relations external to it, but rather as a condition of its self-preservation\". In other words, he establishes a necessary link between the generative or creative forces of production in capitalism and the destruction of capital value as one of the key ways in which capitalism attempts to overcome its internal contradictions:\nThese contradictions lead to explosions, cataclysms, crises, in which [...] momentaneous suspension of labour and annihilation of a great portion of capital [...] violently lead it back to the point where it is enabled [to go on] fully employing its productive powers without committing suicide.\nIn the \"Theories of Surplus Value\" (\"Volume IV\" of \"Das Kapital\", 1863), Marx refines this theory to distinguish between scenarios where the destruction of (commodity) values affects either use values or exchange values or both together. The destruction of exchange value combined with the preservation of use value presents clear opportunities for new capital investment and hence for the repetition of the production-devaluation cycle:\nthe destruction of capital through crises means the depreciation of values which prevents them from later renewing their reproduction process as capital on the same scale. This is the ruinous effect of the fall in the prices of commodities. It does not cause the destruction of any use-values. What one loses, the other gains. Values used as capital are prevented from acting again as capital in the hands of the same person. The old capitalists go bankrupt. [...] A large part of the nominal capital of the society, i.e., of the exchange-value of the existing capital, is once for all destroyed, although this very destruction, since it does not affect the use-value, may very much expedite the new reproduction. This is also the period during which moneyed interest enriches itself at the cost of industrial interest.\nSocial geographer David Harvey sums up the differences between Marx's usage of these concepts and Schumpeter's: \"Both Karl Marx and Joseph Schumpeter wrote at length on the 'creative-destructive' tendencies inherent in capitalism. While Marx clearly admired capitalism's creativity he [...] strongly emphasised its self-destructiveness. The Schumpeterians have all along gloried in capitalism's endless creativity while treating the destructiveness as mostly a matter of the normal costs of doing business\".\n\nIn the Origin of Species, which was published in 1859, Charles Darwin wrote that the \"extinction of old forms is the almost inevitable consequence of the production of new forms.\" One notable exception to this rule is how the extinction of the dinosaurs facilitated the adaptive radiation of mammals. In this case creation was the consequence, rather than the cause, of destruction. \n\nIn philosophical terms, the concept of \"creative destruction\" is close to Hegel´s concept of sublation. In German economic discourse it was taken up from Marx's writings by Werner Sombart, particularly in his 1913 text \"Krieg und Kapitalismus\":\nAgain, however, \"from destruction a new spirit of creation arises;\" the scarcity of wood and the needs of everyday life... forced the discovery or invention of substitutes for wood, forced the use of coal for heating, forced the invention of coke for the production of iron.\nHugo Reinert has argued that Sombart's formulation of the concept was influenced by Eastern mysticism, specifically the image of the Hindu god Shiva, who is presented in the paradoxical aspect of simultaneous destroyer and creator. Conceivably this influence passed from Johann Gottfried Herder, who brought Hindu thought to German philosophy in his \"Philosophy of Human History\" (Ideen zur Philosophie der Geschichte der Menschheit) (Herder 1790–92), specifically volume III, pp. 41–64. via Arthur Schopenhauer and the Orientalist Friedrich Maier through Friedrich Nietzsche´s writings. Nietzsche represented the creative destruction of modernity through the mythical figure of Dionysus, a figure whom he saw as at one and the same time \"destructively creative\" and \"creatively destructive\". In the following passage from \"On the Genealogy of Morality\" (1887), Nietzsche argues for a universal principle of a cycle of creation and destruction, such that every creative act has its destructive consequence:\nBut have you ever asked yourselves sufficiently how much the erection of every ideal on earth has cost? How much reality has had to be misunderstood and slandered, how many lies have had to be sanctified, how many consciences disturbed, how much \"God\" sacrificed every time? If a temple is to be erected a temple must be destroyed: that is the law – let anyone who can show me a case in which it is not fulfilled! – Friedrich Nietzsche, \"On the Genealogy of Morality\"\n\nOther nineteenth-century formulations of this idea include Russian anarchist Mikhail Bakunin, who wrote in 1842, \"The passion for destruction is a creative passion, too!\" Note, however, that this earlier formulation might more accurately be termed \"destructive creation\", and differs sharply from Marx's and Schumpeter's formulations in its focus on the active destruction of the existing social and political order by human agents (as opposed to systemic forces or contradictions in the case of both Marx and Schumpeter).\n\nThe expression \"creative destruction\" was popularized by and is most associated with Joseph Schumpeter, particularly in his book \"Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy\", first published in 1942. Already in his 1939 book \"Business Cycles\", he attempted to refine the innovative ideas of Nikolai Kondratieff and his long-wave cycle which Schumpeter believed was driven by technological innovation. Three years later, in \"Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy\", Schumpeter introduced the term \"creative destruction\", which he explicitly derived from Marxist thought (analysed extensively in Part I of the book) and used it to describe the disruptive process of transformation that accompanies such innovation:\nCapitalism [...] is by nature a form or method of economic change and not only never is but never can be stationary. [...] The fundamental impulse that sets and keeps the capitalist engine in motion comes from the new consumers’ goods, the new methods of production or transportation, the new markets, the new forms of industrial organization that capitalist enterprise creates.[...] The opening up of new markets, foreign or domestic, and the organizational development from the craft shop and factory to such concerns as U.S. Steel illustrate the process of industrial mutation that incessantly revolutionizes the economic structure \"from within\", incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one. This process of Creative Destruction is the essential fact about capitalism. It is what capitalism consists in and what every capitalist concern has got to live in.[... Capitalism requires] the perennial gale of Creative Destruction.\nIn Schumpeter's vision of capitalism, innovative entry by entrepreneurs was the disruptive force that sustained economic growth, even as it destroyed the value of established companies and laborers that enjoyed some degree of monopoly power derived from previous technological, organizational, regulatory, and economic paradigms. However, Schumpeter was pessimistic about the sustainability of this process, seeing it as leading eventually to the undermining of capitalism's own institutional frameworks:\nIn breaking down the pre-capitalist framework of society, capitalism thus broke not only barriers that impeded its progress but also flying buttresses that prevented its collapse. That process, impressive in its relentless necessity, was not merely a matter of removing institutional deadwood, but of removing partners of the capitalist stratum, symbiosis with whom was an essential element of the capitalist schema. [... T]he capitalist process in much the same way in which it destroyed the institutional framework of feudal society also undermines its own.\nSchumpeter nevertheless elaborated the concept, making it central to his economic theory, and it was later taken up as a major doctrine of the so-called Austrian School of free-market economic thought.\n\n Schumpeter (1949) in one of his examples used \"the railroadization of the Middle West as it was initiated by the Illinois Central.\" He wrote, \"The Illinois Central not only meant very good business whilst it was built and whilst new cities were built around it and land was cultivated, but it spelled the death sentence for the [old] agriculture of the West.\"\n\nCompanies that once revolutionized and dominated new industries – for example, Xerox in copiers or Polaroid in instant photography – have seen their profits fall and their dominance vanish as rivals launched improved designs or cut manufacturing costs. In technology, the cassette tape replaced the 8-track, only to be replaced in turn by the compact disc, which was undercut by downloads to MP3 players, which is now being usurped by web-based streaming services. Companies which made money out of technology which becomes obsolete do not necessarily adapt well to the business environment created by the new technologies.\n\nOne such example is the way in which online ad-supported news sites such as \"The Huffington Post\" are leading to creative destruction of the traditional newspaper. The \"Christian Science Monitor\" announced in January 2009 that it would no longer continue to publish a daily paper edition, but would be available online daily and provide a weekly print edition. The \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" became online-only in March 2009. At a national level in USA, employment in the newspaper business fell from 455,700 in 1990 to 225,100 in 2013. Over that same period, employment in internet publishing and broadcasting grew from 29,400 to 121,200. Traditional French alumni networks, which typically charge their students to network online or through paper directories, are in danger of creative destruction from free social networking sites such as Linkedin and Viadeo.\n\nIn fact, successful innovation is normally a source of temporary market power, eroding the profits and position of old firms, yet ultimately succumbing to the pressure of new inventions commercialised by competing entrants. Creative destruction is a powerful economic concept because it can explain many of the dynamics or kinetics of industrial change: the transition from a competitive to a monopolistic market, and back again. It has been the inspiration of endogenous growth theory and also of evolutionary economics.\n\nDavid Ames Wells (1890), who was a leading authority on the effects of technology on the economy in the late 19th century, gave many examples of creative destruction (without using the term) brought about by improvements in steam engine efficiency, shipping, the international telegraph network, and agricultural mechanization.\n\nGeographer and historian David Harvey in a series of works from the 1970s onwards (\"Social Justice and the City\", 1973; \"The Limits to Capital\", 1982; \"The Urbanization of Capital\", 1985; \"Spaces of Hope\", 2000; \"Spaces of Capital\", 2001; \"Spaces of Neoliberalization\", 2005; \"The Enigma of Capital and the Crises of Capitalism\", 2010), elaborated Marx's thought on the systemic contradictions of capitalism, particularly in relation to the production of the urban environment (and to the production of space more broadly). He developed the notion that capitalism finds a \"spatial fix\" for its periodic crises of overaccumulation through investment in fixed assets of infrastructure, buildings, etc.: \"The built environment that constitutes a vast field of collective means of production and consumption absorbs huge amounts of capital in both its construction and its maintenance. Urbanization is one way to absorb the capital surplus\". While the creation of the built environment can act as a form of crisis displacement, it can also constitute a limit in its own right, as it tends to freeze productive forces into a fixed spatial form. As capital cannot abide a limit to profitability, ever more frantic forms of \"time-space compression\" (increased speed of turnover, innovation of ever faster transport and communications' infrastructure, \"flexible accumulation\") ensue, often impelling technological innovation. Such innovation, however, is a double-edged sword:\n\nGlobalization can be viewed as some ultimate form of time-space compression, allowing capital investment to move almost instantaneously from one corner of the globe to another, devaluing fixed assets and laying off labour in one urban conglommeration while opening up new centres of manufacture in more profitable sites for production operations. Hence, in this continual process of creative destruction, capitalism does not resolve its contradictions and crises, but merely \"moves them around geographically\".\n\nIn his 1987 book \"All That is Solid Melts into Air: The Experience of Modernity\", particularly in the chapter entitled \"Innovative Self-Destruction\" (pp. 98–104), Marshall Berman provides a reading of Marxist \"creative destruction\" to explain key processes at work within modernity. The title of the book is taken from a well-known passage from \"The Communist Manifesto\". Berman elaborates this into something of a \"Zeitgeist\" which has profound social and cultural consequences:\n\nHere Berman emphasizes Marx's perception of the fragility and evanescence of capitalism's immense creative forces, and makes this apparent contradiction into one of the key explanatory figures of modernity.\n\nThe sociologist Manuel Castells, in his trilogy on \"\" (the first volume of which, \"\", appeared in 1996), reinterpreted the processes by which capitalism invests in certain regions of the globe, while divesting from others, using the new paradigm of \"informational networks\". In the era of globalization, capitalism is characterized by near-instantaneous flow, creating a new spatial dimension, \"the space of flows\". While technological innovation has enabled this unprecedented fluidity, this very process makes redundant whole areas and populations who are bypassed by informational networks. Indeed, the new spatial form of the mega-city or megalopolis, is defined by Castells as having the contradictory quality of being \"globally connected and locally disconnected, physically and socially\". Castells explicitly links these arguments to the notion of creative destruction:\n\nDeveloping the Schumpeterian legacy, the school of the Science Policy Research Unit of the University of Sussex has further detailed the importance of creative destruction exploring, in particular, how new technologies are often idiosyncratic with the existing productive regimes and will lead to bankruptcy companies and even industries that do not manage to sustain the rate of change. Chris Freeman and Carlota Perez have developed these insights. More recently, Daniele Archibugi and Andrea Filippetti have associated the 2008 economic crisis to the slow-down of opportunities offered by information and communication technologies (ICTs). Using as a metaphor the film \"Blade Runner\", Archibugi has argued that of the innovations described in the film in 1982, all those associated to ICTs have become part of our everyday life. But, on the contrary, none of those in the field of Biotech have been fully commercialized. A new economic recovery will occur when some key technological opportunities will be identified and sustained.\n\nIn 1992, the idea of creative destruction was put into formal mathematical terms by Philippe Aghion and Peter Howitt, giving an alternative model of endogenous growth compared to Paul Romer's expanding varieties model.\n\nIn 1995, Harvard Business School authors Richard L. Nolan and David C. Croson released \"Creative Destruction: A Six-Stage Process for Transforming the Organization.\" The book advocated downsizing to free up slack resources, which could then be reinvested to create competitive advantage.\n\nMore recently, the idea of \"creative destruction\" was utilized by Max Page in his 1999 book, \"The Creative Destruction of Manhattan, 1900–1940.\" The book traces Manhattan's constant reinvention, often at the expense of preserving a concrete past. Describing this process as \"creative destruction,\" Page describes the complex historical circumstances, economics, social conditions and personalities that have produced crucial changes in Manhattan's cityscape.\n\nIn addition to Max Page, others have used the term “creative destruction” to describe the process of urban renewal and modernization. T.C. Chang and Shirlena Huang referenced “creative destruction” in their paper \"Recreating place, replacing memory: Creative Destruction at the Singapore River.\" The authors explored the efforts to redevelop a waterfront area that reflected a vibrant new culture while paying sufficient homage to the history of the region. Rosemary Wakeman chronicled the evolution of an area in central Paris, France known as Les Halles. Les Halles housed a vibrant marketplace starting in the twelfth century. Ultimately, in 1971, the markets were relocated and the pavilions torn down. In their place, now stand a hub for trains, subways and buses. Les Halles is also the site of the largest shopping mall in France and the controversial Centre Georges Pompidou.\n\nThe term “creative destruction” has been applied to the arts. Alan Ackerman and Martin Puncher (2006) edited a collection of essays under the title \"Against Theater: Creative destruction on the modernist stage.\" They detail the changes and the causal motivations experienced in theater as a result of the modernization of both the production of performances and the underlying economics. They speak of how theater has reinvented itself in the face of anti-theatricality, straining the boundaries of the traditional to include more physical productions, which might be considered avant-garde staging techniques.\n\nIn his 1999 book, \"Still the New World, American Literature in a Culture of Creative Destruction\", Philip Fisher analyzes the themes of creative destruction at play in literary works of the twentieth century, including the works of such authors as Ralph Waldo Emerson, Walt Whitman, Herman Melville, Mark Twain, and Henry James, among others. Fisher argues that creative destruction exists within literary forms just as it does within the changing of technology.\n\nNeoconservative author Michael Ledeen argued in his 2002 book \"The War Against the Terror Masters\" that America is a revolutionary nation, undoing traditional societies: \"Creative destruction is our middle name, both within our own society and abroad. We tear down the old order every day, from business to science, literature, art, architecture, and cinema to politics and the law.\" His characterization of creative destruction as a model for social development has met with fierce opposition from paleoconservatives.\n\nCreative destruction has also been linked to sustainable development. The connection was explicitly mentioned for the first time by Stuart L. Hart and Mark B. Milstein in their 1999 article \"Global Sustainability and the Creative Destruction of Industries\", in which he argues new profit opportunities lie in a round of creative destruction driven by global sustainability. (An argument which they would later on strengthen in their 2003 article \"Creating Sustainable Value\" and, in 2005, with \"Innovation, Creative Destruction and Sustainability\".) Andrea L. Larson agreed with this vision a year later in \"Sustainable Innovation Through an Entrepreneurship Lens\", stating entrepreneurs should be open to the opportunities for disruptive improvement based on sustainability. In 2005, James Hartshorn (et al.) emphasized the opportunities for sustainable, disruptive improvement in the construction industry in his article \"Creative Destruction: Building Toward Sustainability\".\n\nThe following text appears to be the source of the phrase \"Schumpeter's Gale\" to refer to creative destruction:\n\nThe film \"Other People's Money\" (1991) provides contrasting views of creative destruction, presented in two speeches regarding the takeover of a publicly traded wire and cable company in a small New England town. One speech is by a corporate raider, and the other is given by the company CEO, who is principally interested in protecting his employees and the town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1203562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1203562", "title": "Cyrus S. Eaton", "text": "Cyrus S. Eaton\n\nCyrus Stephen Eaton, Sr. (December 27, 1883 – May 9, 1979) was a Canadian-American investment banker, businessman and philanthropist, with a career that spanned seventy years.\n\nFor decades Eaton was one of the most powerful financiers in the American Midwest, and he was a colourful and often-controversial figure. He was chiefly known for his longevity in business, for his opposition to the dominance of eastern financiers in the America of his day, for his occasionally ruthless financial manipulations, for his passion for world peace and for his outspoken criticism of United States Cold War policy. He funded and helped organize the first Pugwash Conferences on World Peace, in 1955. He wrote numerous articles and essays on political and economic subjects—\"Investment Banking\", \"Competition or Decadence\", \"Rationalism Versus Rockefeller\", and \"A Capitalist Looks at Labour\" being some of the best known.\n\nEaton was born on December 27, 1883 on a farm near the village of Pugwash in Cumberland County, Nova Scotia, Canada. Besides farming, his father, Joseph Howe Eaton, ran a small general store and the district post office. Cyrus' uncle was Charles Aubrey Eaton.\n\nEaton left Nova Scotia in 1899 to attend Woodstock College, a Baptist-affiliated prep school in Woodstock, Ontario. Later he enrolled at McMaster University, a Baptist university, then located in Toronto, where he studied philosophy and finance, intending to enter the Baptist ministry. He earned his bachelor of arts degree in 1905 with a major in philosophy.\n\nAfter graduating from McMaster he moved to Cleveland and went to work for the East Ohio Gas Company. This was one of many businesses associated with John D. Rockefeller. After working with East Ohio Gas and Rockefeller for two years, he established his own business in 1907, developing gas utilities which at the time were relatively underdeveloped and unconsolidated in Canada. He managed to secure natural-gas franchises in Manitoba, Canada representing a group of New York investors. The syndicate was not able to complete its financing and folded. However, the Manitoba government was sufficiently impressed to allow Eaton to retain the franchises. Eaton formed a new holding company, the Canada Gas & Electric Corp, later consolidated into the Continental Gas & Electric Corp. in 1913.\n\nAfter spending several years traveling, Eaton settled in Cleveland in 1913 and became active in many businesses. Eaton joined the Otis & Co. banking firm in 1916. In 1926 he set up an investment vehicle organized as Continental Shares, Inc., a closed end trust. In 1927 he formed Republic Steel, the 3rd-largest U.S. steel company. His business had a complex structure which some felt to be too highly leveraged. His 1929 wealth was an estimated $100 million, most of which was lost in the Great Depression.\n\nEaton rebuilt his fortune in the 1940s and 1950s, becoming a director (1943), then board chairman (1954), of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway; and also board chairman of the West Kentucky Coal Co. (1953).\n\nHe died on May 9, 1979 at his home, Acadia Farm, in Northfield, OH.\n\nIn 1920, Eaton founded the Cleveland Museum of Natural History.\n\nThe Russell–Einstein Manifesto was issued in London on July 9, 1955 by Bertrand Russell in the midst of the Cold War. It highlighted the dangers posed by nuclear weapons and called for world leaders to seek peaceful resolutions to international conflict. The signatories included eleven preeminent intellectuals and scientists, including Albert Einstein, who signed it just days before his death on April 18, 1955. A few days after the release, philanthropist Eaton offered to sponsor a conference—called for in the manifesto—in Pugwash, Nova Scotia, Eaton's birthplace. This conference was to be the first of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, held in July 1957.\n\nBesides financial support for the Pugwash Conferences, Eaton gave money to support education in Nova Scotia, particularly in Pugwash and to Acadia University. He supported the establishment of a game sanctuary in Nova Scotia on the Aspotogan Peninsula (his summer home was in Blandford, Nova Scotia where he had his ashes buried. He donated money for the doors of St. Bartholmus Church in Blandford and 12 acres (4.9 hectares) of land in Northfield, Ohio, for the Lee Eaton Elementary School, named in memory of his daughter. He was also a financial supporter of McMaster University, the YWCA, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History and Case Western Reserve University. At his death in 1979, his Blandford estate was purchased by a group of businessmen from Germany. His summer home was destroyed in a fire 2015.\n\nEaton's 1950s efforts at rapprochement with the Soviet Union won him the 1960 Lenin Peace Prize. He was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1958, and was the recipient of an honorary degree from Bowling Green State University in 1969. The Pugwash Conferences and their chairman, Joseph Rotblat, were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1995.\n\nEaton married twice; first, in 1907, Margaret House (1887-1956); then Anne Kinder Jones (1922-1992) in 1957. He had seven children: Margaret Grace, Mary Adelle, Elizabeth Ann, Anna Bishop, Cyrus S. Jr., Augusta Farlee, and MacPherson. He died in Ohio and had his ashes buried in Blandford, Nova Scotia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28247324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28247324", "title": "David Utrilla", "text": "David Utrilla\n\nDavid Utrilla is the 31st member of the Utah Corps of Consuls and Honorary Consul to Peru in Utah. Utrilla is also the owner and CEO of U.S. Translation Company.\n\nUtrilla was officially appointed by the president of Peru, Alan García, and after receiving credentials from the U.S. Department of State, began serving as Utah's Honorary Consul of Peru in 2009. As the Honorary Consul to Peru, Utrilla serves two main purposes: To build and strengthen ties as well as help and promote the local community.\n\nDavid Utrilla was born and raised in Lima, Peru. In Lima, he studied international business and economics. In 1994 David immigrated to the United States and attended Weber State University. In 1995 he founded U.S. Translation Company.\n\nThrough his direction, USTC has grown tremendously in its 21 years of business. He has guided his company to achieve ISO 9001:2008 and EN 15038 certification, and has been given many awards including Utah’s Best of State for Language Services in 2009-2013 and 2016; Inc. 500/5000 in 2010-2012 & 2014-16 for fastest growing companies in America; Mountain West Capital Network’s top 100 fastest growing companies in Utah for 2010, 2011 & 2013; the 2009 Top Forty Business Executives Under 40 in Utah; and the 2008 Small Business Person of the Year by the SBA. In 2014 he received the Weber State University Distinguished Alumnus Award, the 2015 the Utah Valley University Atlas Award, and the 2016 Quixote Award by the Utah Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.\n\nDavid also serves as the President of the World Trade Association of Utah, Vice President of the Utah Consular Corps, Board of Governors at the Salt Lake Chamber of Commerce, Board of Directors at the Utah Citizen for Diplomacy Council, and is in the Weber State University President’s National Advisory Council and Advisory Board Member for the School of Business and Economics. In 2009 he was appointed by the President of Peru as the Honorary Consul of Peru in Utah and he currently holds this position.\n\nUtrilla resides in North Salt Lake, Utah with his wife Krista and four children.\n\n"}
{"id": "21270193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21270193", "title": "Distributed workforce", "text": "Distributed workforce\n\nA distributed workforce is a workforce that reaches beyond the restrictions of a traditional office environment. A distributed workforce is dispersed geographically over a wide area – domestically or internationally. By installing key technologies, distributed companies enable employees located anywhere to access all of the company’s resources and software such as applications, data and e-mail without working within the confines of a physical company-operated facility.\n\nThis is not a virtual business, where employees are distributed but remain primarily unconnected. A company with a distributed workforce connects its employees using a networking infrastructure that makes it easy for team members across the world to work together. Using a shared software approach called SaaS, or software as a service, workers and teams can share files securely as well as access the company’s databases, file sharing, telecommunications/unified communications, Customer relationship management (CRM), video teleconferencing, human resources, IT service management, accounting, IT security, web analytics, web content management, e-mail, calendars and much more.\n\nNew technologies are changing important aspects of how we live and work, and the ways we manage distance in the work environment.The management of distance requires more than just technical artifacts. In fact, techniques, social conventions and norms, organizational structures, and institutions are also required. In this section, we take a look at the ways \"distributed work\" has evolved over the past several centuries, but we specifically cover the last 50 decades.\n\nOver the 20th century the workplace became increasingly associated with the office building. In the mid 1900’s, the most prominent business strategy was based on a mechanistic view of office workers as units of production to be housed in a unified and controlling space. Then, in the 1960s the office was seen as a communications system, with the floorplan opening up to facilitate the free flow of information. This office space was designed with the intention of fostering communication and flexible teamwork within the physical location. Then in the 1980s there was a major workplace revolution as the computer moved from the computer room to the desktop. In the 1990s a second workplace revolution saw the introduction of “new ways of working” a response to the realization that information technology was transforming cultural, social, technological and construction processes. At this time, the virtual world and digital tools reduced the need for synchronous, face-to-face communication and colocation for office workers for the purposes of carrying out defined tasks.This digital revolution was the convergence between communications and computing technologies which now allows individuals and organizations to connect in ways, and on scales that were previously inconceivable. Today, the new economy is characterized by an increasing virtualization of products, processes, organizations and relationships. The new economy production no longer requires people to work together in the same physical space to access the tools and resources they need to produce their work and allows for distributed work.\n\nAfter reviewing the chapter \"Trust and Control in the Hudson's Bay Company in the book \"Distributed Work\", distributed work has been studied throughout history and not simply since the middle of the 1900s. Between 1670 and 1826, management had to rely on trust and control to successfully manage distributed work. During this time, in addition to dispersed operations that relied heavily on a combination of explicit information and detailed record keeping, more tacit and situated knowledge developed through socialization and participating in life on the Bay.\n\nThe Hudson's Bay Company case of distributed work showed a variety of control mechanisms including selection techniques, information requirements, and direct local oversight through its distributed practices of socialization, communication, and participation. For example, the elaboration of reporting requirements during the period of inland expansion were used to supplement the current knowledge. A final aspect to note from the HBC case is the senior managements early learning about the strengths and weaknesses of contracts as a means of controlling distant agents. Early on the managers found out that \"common sense\" was not enough to encourage everyone to comply. Instead, the company's managers created a way to encourage all workers to comply to the businesses norms. All in all the HBC, concludes that trust and control is vital in distributed groups and organizations. HBC suggests that the process and outcome of geographically dispersed work is shaped by the interaction of a number of elements that are more complex, dynamic, and emergent than suggested by the contemporary literature. Thus, it is important to review distributed work prior to its public emergence in the 21st century.\n\nThere are several key terms associated with collocated work and distributed work. The most important concepts are common ground, coupling in work, collaboration readiness, and technology readiness. This section will briefly define these four concepts.\n\nCommon ground refers to the knowledge that participants have in common, and they are aware that they have this information in common. Common ground is not just established from some general knowledge about the person’s background, but also through specific knowledge learned from several different cues that are available at the moment, including the person’s appearance and behavior during conversational interactions. The figure below, shows the characteristics that contribute to achieving common ground that are inherent in various communication media.\n\nIt is important to note that those who are remote complain about the difficulty of establishing common ground. This is because when individuals are connected by audio conferencing, it is difficult to tell who is speaking if you do not know the participant well. However, people with video can engage in the subtle negotiation that establishes local common ground- whether what was said was understood or not, whether the conversation can proceed or needs repair. Overall, the more common ground people can establish, the easier the communication will be and the greater the productivity.\n\nCoupling refers to the extent and kind of communication required by the work. Tightly coupled work is work that strongly depends on the talents of collections of workers and is nonroutine, and even ambiguous. Components of this type of work are highly interdependent, meaning that the work requires frequent, complex communication among group members, with short feedback loops and multiple streams of information. This type of communication is very difficult in remote locations, mostly because technology does not support rapid back and forth conversations or awareness and repair of ambiguity. On the other hand, loosely coupled work has fewer dependencies or is more routine. It is important that all group members establish common ground about the task, goals, and procedures before working, but this type of work overall requires less frequent or less complicated interactions.\n\nCollaboration readiness is a groups willingness to work together and share their ideas. Using shared technology assumes that the coworkers need to share information and are rewarded for sharing it. It is important to note that one should not attempt to introduce groupware and remote technologies in organizations and communities that do not have a culture of sharing and collaboration.\n\nCommon ground is often used in collaboration, where a team is out to solve a complex problem. In order to solve a complex problem, the different skills and perspectives of members in a team must be pooled together. To do so, the team must make sure that they are on common ground in terms of knowledge and representation of the problem. Care must be taken to note that to achieve common ground when collaborating, differences are constructively managed, rather than downplayed. This is because collaboration differs from compromise.\n\nTechnology readiness is a company or groups willingness and ability to use technology. Companies require a technical infrastructure if they are going to adopt technologies in the company. In particular, they require the habits, including those of preparation, regular access, attention given to others’ need for information, in order to effectively use the necessary technology for distributed work. Researchers repeatedly see that failure of distributed work often results from attempts to introduce new technologies to organizations or communities that are not yet comfortable with technologies that are already in place. The following chart explains the order in which various collaboration technologies should be adopted in organizations to allow the employees to become familiar with and learn each new technology.\n\nThe list below shows the observed order in which various collaboration technologies were adopted and used in different organizations.\n\nAs this chart shows, advanced technologies should be introduced in small steps.\n\nThese key concepts are important because they help differentiate between collocated and distributed work. Later on a fifth concept of organizational management was proposed.Organizational management is the \"practices by which management activities are part of shaping the fundamental premises for collaboration without proximity\" \n\nThere are two types of work that explain the geographical distance between coworkers/collaborators. Collocated work is the case in which team members are at the same location. Distributed work is the term used to explain team members who are not in the same physical location when working on a project. There are many differences, similarities, benefits, and obstacles of these two types of work. In order to distinguish between collocated and distributed work, it is necessary to go into more detail.\n\nCollocated work is the case in which the team members are at the same physical location. This may be temporary due to travel to a common location or permanent because all collaborators of the group are at the common work site. Same location means that the coworkers can get to each other’s workspaces with a short walk and communicate via face-to-face interactions. Also, during meetings or small group meetings, a major advantage of collocated work is that individuals are able to move from one meeting to another, simply by overhearing a conversation, seeing what someone is working on, and being aware of how long they had worked on it with or without progress. In addition, during these meetings coworkers can observe someone’s reaction by being able to see his/her gesture or glance. This allows for one to make sure that the group has common ground prior to moving on. Also, coworkers have access to common spaces for group interactions and have mutual access to significant shared information. In a study, researchers observed an individual describe something by drawing with his hands in the air. Later, someone referred to “that idea” by pointing to the spot in the air where the first person had “drawn his idea”.\n\nOpposite of collocated work, distributed work is the case in which team members are not physically in the same location. Thus, they are forced to use different methods of technology to communicate to make progress on the project/problem they are working on. Today, the technology distributed work groups use to communicate is constantly changing because of rapid changes and because different groups have varying access to technology. Olson & Olson describe the options of communication today which include:\n\nDistributed work can be very successful, if the company or group displays technology readiness. Some of the benefits of distributed work include:\n\nDistributed work is far from perfect and there are many failures, some of which include:\n\nOverall, people who have little common ground benefit significantly from having a video channel.\n\nEffective group communication involves various nonverbal communication characteristics. Because distance limits interpersonal interaction between members of distributed groups, these characteristics often become constrained. Communication media focuses on alternative ways to achieve these qualities and promote effective communication. This section addresses communication technology in relation to the theories of grounding and mutual knowledge, and discusses the costs and benefits of various communication technology tools.\n\nGrounding and technology\n\nGrounding in communication is the process of updating the evolving common ground, or shared information, between participants. The base of mutual knowledge is important for effective coordination and communication. Additionally, participants constantly gather various forms of verbal and nonverbal evidence to establish understanding of change and task.\n\nThe following are means of grounding and collecting evidence:\n\nDifferent forms of communication result in the varied presence of these communication characteristics. Therefore, the nature of communication technology can either promote or inhibit grounding between participants. The absence of grounding information results in reduced ability to read and understand social cues. This increases the social distance between them.\n\nCosts to grounding change\n\nThe lack of one of these characteristics generally forces participants to use alternative grounding techniques, because the costs associated with grounding change. There is often a trade-off between the costs- one cost will increase as another decreases. There is also often a correlation between the costs. The following table highlights several of the costs that can change as the medium of communication changes.\n\nExamples of Communication Technology\n- Structured Management (Hinds & Kiesler): It has been argued that work can be adapted to individual situations through task decomposition and version control. This can be applied to distributed groups by allowing groups to divide the work into manageable chunks. Group members can work autonomously and come together to produce a finished product. Many recent software developments have been built to specifically address this method.\n\n- Email\nEmail prevents the communication of verbal inferences, such as sarcasm and humor and, additionally, leaves email writers unaware of what their communication is lacking. When people try to anticipate the perspective of their email audience, studies suggest that they end up pulling upon their own experience and perspective instead. This often leads to inconsistencies in email conversation and chaotic communication.\n\nBackground\nA team made up of a variety of professionals from different companies collaborated from different geographic locations to create an optimized rocket engine. They encountered a variety of challenges and used communication technology tools to plan and execute the project.\n\nTask\n\nSLICE was tasked with designing a rocket engine at 1/100 the current cost, increase the speed to market by ten times, and increase the rocket engine useful life by three times. Additionally, this team of eight presented their design after 10 months of work, without committing more than 15% of their working time to the project, without collocated meetings and without a common professional ground.\n\nManagement Practice 1: Strategy-Setting\n\nThe managers at the three involved companies began the project by spending a year developing an umbrella agreement, the “Continuous Ordering Agreement”, which explicitly defined contractual obligations, the allocation of intellectual property, and the allotment of time the team would have to work on the project. Determining these policies of risk management, project responsibility and funding between companies required a significant level of trust and respect between the teams.\n\nThe Continuous Ordering Agreement strategically accomplished three fundamental elements of a successful inter-company team. The team was able to candidly share information without worrying about disclosing company intellectual property, the planning time between idea and project kick-off was significantly reduced, and the team was protected from management changes within their respective companies.\n\nManagement Practice 2: Technology Use\n\nThe team primarily used the Internet Notebook, the Project Vault and teleconferences as their methods of collaborative technology. The Internet Notebook allowed the team to securely and remotely access the project and work on and review other ideas simultaneously. The Project Vault was a common file storage and information transfer tool used to promote sharing of all information. Although the team initially planned to use only this written communication, but, due to the overwhelming number of ideas and amount of data, the team began to hold two teleconferences a week. The following table illustrates the capabilities of each method:\n\nIn order to maintain efficiency and minimize confusion, the team decided to address their need for knowledge management by retracting the prohibition of face-to-face conversations and instead enforcing a rule of total information sharing. The issue then became the organization and order of ideas, which was not as simply solved. Another issue was the involvement and interaction of team members with their collocated teams. Because the team members were also involved with other projects at their respective companies, they also altered their protocol to allow for interruptions and multitasking during meetings. This unintentionally resulted in the team performing just-in-time analysis and receiving real-time feedback.\n\nManagement Practice 3: Work Restructuring\n\nThe team found that the necessary changes to work structure, in order to accommodate virtual collaboration, should be limited as to prevent complications in the fulfillment of basic creative needs. The team specifically identified these needs as consistent and frequent communication between all team members, rapid creation and deletion of information, and a common ground of the task and solutions. SLICE consequently restructured their work to both meet these requirements and enhance the virtual collaboration experience for all members\n\nResults\n\nAfter 10 months of working on this project, with no more than 15% of each member's time dedicated to it and each member working from a different geographic location, the team designed an optimized rocket engine with fewer parts(6 parts instead of the normal ~1,200), a 14-fold decrease in manufacturing cost(from $7 million to $0.5 million), and the highest-ever quality performance in the industry. \n\nIn the future, design improvements and more horsepower will solve a number of current problems that currently cause limitations of distance technologies. Greater bandwidth will solve the disruptive influence of today’s delays in audio and video transmission. This will also allow for larger, smoother, more life-size displays of remote workers, making their interaction more similar to the flow of face-to-face interactions. In the future, it is possible that technology will provide capabilities that are in some ways superior to face-to-face options. However, it is likely that problems will result from distributed work technologies and from a lack of knowledge to operate the technologies in the future and face-to-face interactions will not be able to be eliminated completely.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31797393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31797393", "title": "Dragan Đurić", "text": "Dragan Đurić\n\nDragan Đurić (; born 20 January 1954) is a Serbian businessman, economist and former president of FK Partizan football club. He is also a president and owner of ZEKSTRA Group.\n\nOn 23 July 2008 he was selected as president of FK Partizan. His predecessor was Tomislav Karadžić.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "34684496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34684496", "title": "Ernest Alfred Adams", "text": "Ernest Alfred Adams\n\nErnest Alfred Adams (23 November 1892 – 29 August 1976) was a New Zealand baker, businessman and philanthropist. He was born in Wellington, Somerset, England. He co-founded Ernest Adams Limited.\n\nIn the 1962 Queen's Birthday Honours, Adams was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for services to the community, especially in social welfare work.\n"}
{"id": "4891280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4891280", "title": "Ford Lio Ho Motor", "text": "Ford Lio Ho Motor\n\nFord Lio Ho Motor () is a Taiwanese-based automaker and the primary dealer of Ford vehicles in Taiwan formed in 1972. It is 70 percent owned by Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford Motor Company. The remaining 30 per cent is owned by investors in the former Lio Ho Automotive Industrial Corporation, which previously assembled Toyota vehicles.\n\nIt began operations in 1973, assembling Ford models like the Cortina, Escort, and Granada. In 1974 assembly of the Philippine-made Ford Fiera AUV began, although sales were slow as it was more expensive than its more comfortable Japanese competitors. In the 1980s, it began assembly of Mazda-based models, such as the Laser (Mazda 323), Telstar (Mazda 626) and Festiva (Mazda 121).\n\nThe Taiwan-built Laser hatchback was exported to Canada in the late 1980s, badged as the Mercury Tracer.\n\nFormer Ford models unique to Taiwan include the Ford Tierra, based on the Mazda 323 sedan, later rebadged as the facelifted Ford Laser in other Asian markets, the Ford Activa, a rebadged Mazda 323 sedan and hatchback, and the Ford Mondeo Metrostar which later also sold in China, based on the European Mondeo sedan.\nTaiwan-market Ford and Mazda vehicles include locally assembled Ford Mondeo, Ford Focus, Ford Fiesta, Ford Escape, Mazda 3, Mazda 5, and Mazda Tribute. Also, all 2007 model year Asia/Pacific (except China and South Korean markets) Ford Escapes are assembled by Ford Lio Ho. The Taiwan-assembled Mondeo is also exported to China and Saudi Arabia. After the ban on diesel-engined passenger cars was lifted in Taiwan in 2004, Ford Liou Ho became the first local manufacturer to build a diesel car. This was a diesel Focus, introduced in August 2007.\n\nBefore Ford divested Jaguar and Land Rover in 2008, and significantly reduced share-holding of Mazda in 2010, the Taiwanese units of these brands were organized under Ford Liou Ho.\n\nFord Lio Ho Design Technology Center or Ford Design & Research Center was built and established by the end of 2002 in Taipei. The Design Technology Center was in charge of products sold mainly within the Asian Pacific markets including Australia, New Zealand, Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia, Taiwan, Japan, China, and Russia.\nNoticeable products include the 2005 Ford Equator Concept which later spawned the Asian Pacific Ford Escape (ZC), Ford Tierra, Ford Ixion, Ford Mondeo M2000 facelift, Ford Mondeo Metrostar, Ford Escape ZC extensive facelift and Ford i-Max. With the Ford i-Max being one of the latest products designed by Lio Ho, the Design Technology Center was shut down due to the one Ford strategy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46288985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46288985", "title": "George M. Marakas", "text": "George M. Marakas\n\nGeorge M. Marakas is an American author, scholar, research scientist, professor, consultant, entrepreneur, and an authority in specific areas within the field of information systems. His academic career, includes faculty appointments at the Robert H. Smith School of Business at University of Maryland where he was a Center for Teaching Excellence Eli Lilly Fellow, the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University where he held the British-American Tobacco Fellowship for Global Information Systems Strategy., the University of Kansas School of Business, and the Florida International University College of Business where he holds the rank of Full professor and is the Academic Director of Doctoral programs for the FIU College of Business.\n\nMarakas has co-authored and published more than 50 papers and five textbooks within the field of information systems. He writes, speaks and researches in the area of computer and technological self-efficacy from both a theoretical and applied perspective. Marakas has served as a Senior Editor for THE Database for Information Systems Research and an Associate Editor for Information Systems Research. \n\nMarakas holds senior executive positions in several entrepreneurial ventures in the motorcycle and olive oil industries. His writing has appeared in several motorcycle publications in both print and digital form and he is a regular contributor to blogs in both industries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50939634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50939634", "title": "Good Deeds Day", "text": "Good Deeds Day\n\nGood Deeds Day is an international day of volunteering. Beginning in 2007, its mission is to unite people from around the world in doing good deeds for others and the planet.\n\nThis day of community service was launched in 2007 in Israel by businesswoman and philanthropist, Shari Arison, through Ruach Tova, a Nonprofit organization that connects between people who want to volunteer and organizations in need of assistance.\n\nSpeaking about the day, initiator Shari Arison said: \n\nApproximately 7,000 people participated in Israel in 2007. The day became global in 2011, with participants from around the world, including in the USA, Ukraine and Poland. In 2012, project organizers teamed up with MTV Global for a six-week-campaign on its online and TV platforms, exposing the message to 24 million viewers around the world. In 2014, NASDAQ invited Shari Arison to kick off Good Deeds Day in the trading day closing bell ceremony. 2017 marked the fourth year in a row of the NASDAQ and Good Deeds Day collaboration.\n\nGood Deeds Day 2018 will be on Sunday, April 15, 2018.\n\nIn 2017, the 11th annual Good Deeds Day, approximately 2,500,000 participants from 93 countries volunteered, marking it the largest and most global day yet. To celebrate, project organizers held mega events in Kenya, Portugal, Italy, Poland and more.\n\nGood Deeds Day and Ruach Tova are part of The Ted Arison Family Foundation, the philanthropic arm of the Arison Group.\n\nIn 2011, international companies Shikun & Binui and Bank Hapoalim were among the first international participants in Good Deeds Day outside of Israel. As of 2016, Good Deeds Day is celebrated in 75 countries worldwide, and has collaborated with major cities such as Rome, São Paulo, Kaohsiung City, and New York City to create special events. In the Good Deeds Day event at Herald Square, New York City, actor and activist Adrian Grenier supported the day by speaking at the event:\nPope Francis endorsed the day in his Sunday sermon prior to Good Deeds Day 2015 in Rome and said:\nIn 2016 Good Deeds Day collaborated with Brazil based volunteering center Atados on a nationwide activation. Together they reached 10,000 volunteers around the country, and 40 cities across Brazil including major cities like Rio de Janeiro, Brasília, and São Paulo.\n\nIn Latin America, major Good Deeds Day events took place in Panama, Costa Rica, Brazil, Peru, and 16 other countries in the region.\n\nIn Taiwan, Good Deeds Day collaborated with TAVE (Taiwan Association for Volunteer Effort) to create major citywide activities in Kaohsiung City, Taiwan in 2016. Taiwan’s Vice President, Chen Chien-jen, and Kaohsiung’s Mayor, Chen Chu, were among the government officials honoring the day in 2016. Taoyuan City also hosted citywide activities, arranged by Taoyuan City Volunteer Service Association and other partnering organizations.\n\nOne of the biggest collaborations in Europe include SPES (Associazione Promozione e Solidarietà) in Italy, who organized a major Good Deeds Day event in Rome in 2016. Good Deeds Day invited runners in the Rome Marathon to join the “Roma Fun Run” and visit the Good Deeds Day fair of non-profits at the finish line.\n\nGood Deeds Day (Hebrew: יום מעשים טובים) first began in Israel in 2007 with 7,000 participants and grew to 1,500,000 in 2016. Local municipalities, companies, and nonprofit organizations all around the country participate by organizing special activities in their communities, renovating or painting buildings, building community gardens, and volunteering in many other ways for populations in need. Cities such as Tel Aviv and Jerusalem also host special Good Deeds Day events that are open to the public, such as the 2016 “Counselor’s Boulevard” that took place on Rothschild Boulevard, Tel Aviv. Professionals gave free counseling sessions to passersby. Other public events include the 2015 Good Deeds Day nonprofit Fair at Rabin Square, Tel Aviv, and Ashkelon, which included hair donation stands, dog adoption area, and a give-and-take market.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Good Deeds Day became international in 2011.\n\nGood Deeds Day received the George W. Romney Affiliate Excellence Award in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1588722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1588722", "title": "Hartham Park", "text": "Hartham Park\n\nHartham Park is a Georgian manor house in Wiltshire, England, about north of the town of Corsham. Originally designed by James Wyatt, and set today in , it has within its grounds a stické tennis court. The house and nearby buildings were developed as a private business park in the late 1990s, although the house retains its Georgian facade and look.\n\nHartham Park is first recorded in the Domesday Book, and was owned from the 15th century by the Goddard family. In 1790, following the death of her husband Commodore Sir William James, Chairman of the East India Company, Lady Anne James (née Goddard) decided to move from Eltham, London to Wiltshire. She commissioned architect James Wyatt to remove the existing farm house and redevelop the property. Completed in 1795, Lady James died before its hand-over. Although her house is at the centre of the current property, it is largely obscured or altered as a result of later developments.\n\nSubsequently leased out, in 1800 it was the birthplace of Sir Alexander Malet, 2nd Baronet.\n\nIn 1816, the estate was purchased from the Goddard family trust by American exile Michael Joy, who through his sympathies for the British during the American War of Independence found it impossible to remain in North America. In the 1830s his son Henry Hall Joy undertook a land swap with Sir Benjamin Hobhouse, in which he took ownership of the adjacent Hartham House, which had historically been owned by the Duckett family. In his subsequent redevelopment of the estate, Hall Joy added an ice house to Hartham Park, which subsequently served as an air raid shelter during the Second World War. He also incorporated the gates of Hartham House into the entrance of Hartham park, so that the Duckett family crest still appears on the iron entrance gates. Henry Hall Joy died in 1840.\n\nIn the 1850s, the estate was bought by Thomas Henry Allen Poynder, and passed on his death to his brother, William Henry Poynder. On his death, the estate passed to his nephew, John Dickson Poynder, who on the death of his uncle Sir Alexander Collingwood Thomas Dickson became the sixth baronet Dickson of Hardingham Hall.\n\nSir John became MP for Chippenham in 1892, and a Member of London County Council from 1898 to 1904. He also served in the Second Boer War as aide-de-campe to Commander in Chief Paul Methuen, 3rd Baron Methuen, winning a DSO in 1900. He then chaired the Islington Commission. Appointed Governor of New Zealand in 1910, he was raised to the peerage as Lord Islington. After two years he returned to become first Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies and then Under Secretary of State for India.\n\nFrom the start of his ownership, Baron Islington began to remodel Hartham Park. The house was remodelled and the grounds were landscaped by Harold Peto, including a Dutch water garden, subsequently largely overbuilt in a 1960s redevelopment. Hartham also became a focal point for political and recreational life in North Wiltshire, with records showing numerous stays for his friends Winston Churchill and Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, the third son of Queen Victoria who enjoyed the local game shooting.\n\nIn 1904, Lord Islington commissioned the construction of a wooden stické tennis court, northwest of the house. Started in an artillery building at the gunnery range at Shoeburyness, Essex in 1877, courts were built throughout the British Empire, and particularly in country houses. But after World War One, no further courts were built and the sport's popularity waned. Today Hartham Park's court is one of only three remaining in the world, the others being located at:\n\nLord Islington sold Hartham Park following his purchase of Rushbrooke Hall, Suffolk in 1922. Subsequently, Hartham Park estate was purchased by the J&W Nicholson & Co. family of gin makers, who took up residence during the Second World War. From the time of the Battle of Britain onwards, the upper floors were used as dormitories housing one hundred members of the Women's Auxiliary Air Force from the Royal Air Force's No. 10 Group, RAF Fighter Command, based at the nearby RAF Rudloe Manor.\n\nSold again in the 1960s, the house has since been used as corporate offices, initially as the headquarters of the Bath and Portland Stone company.\n\nBought in 1997, Hartham Park was redeveloped into a business park. The main house and adjoining buildings enclose 90 sub-let serviced offices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17529522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17529522", "title": "Henry Canoy", "text": "Henry Canoy\n\nDon Henry Canoy (November 1, 1923 – May 16, 2008) was a Filipino businessman and founder of Radio Mindanao Network.\n\nCanoy was born in Cagayan de Misamis, Misamis Province into a family of teachers and traders.\n\nIn 1952 Canoy started the DXCC radio station, this was Cagayan de Oro's first radio station. Canoy wanted to use radio for public broadcasting to inform, educate and also entertain listeners. Up until this time the main source of news for most Filipinos came from Manila based newspapers. <br>\nCanoy went on to open up many more local radio stations throughout the Philippines, together these stations formed the Radio Mindanao Network.\n\nIn 2002 Philippines President Gloria Arroyo praised Canoy for his achievements in and contributions to broadcast journalism. <br>After Canoy's death President Arroyo released a statement praising his legacy, \n\nHe was married to Maria Clara Suniel-Canoy. He has six children, respectively Eric, Rebecca, Ike aka \"Butch\", Charley, Tessa and Harriet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43516586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43516586", "title": "Hot melt coating", "text": "Hot melt coating\n\nHot melt coating is the application of a layer to a substrate by pre-melting the desired material and then allowing or forcing the material to cool, solidifying the layer. The process is widely used in industry, particularly for pressure-sensitive adhesives on thin substrates- self-adhesive labels.\n\nCoating is the application of a layer to a substrate. In general, in order for a thin uniform layer to be applied, the application must be done at low or moderate viscosities. In many cases this low viscosity is achieved by dissolving or dispersing the desired coating in a liquid such as water or a solvent, but this then necessitates the subsequent removal of the liquid by, for instance, a drying process. \nHot-melt coating achieves this low to moderate viscosity by melting the desired material before applying it to the substrate. The substrate and coated layer are then cooled, generally by passing over a chilled roller. There is no liquid to remove, so the process is, in principle, much faster than water- or solvent-based equivalents.\n\nThe process has been used so extensively for the application of adhesive layers by slot-die coating that the use of the term ‘hot melt’ often implies slot-die coating, but hot melt methods have also been used for other coating processes, such as metering rod or roller coating.\n\nIf the desired substrate is too temperature-sensitive to allow direct hot-melt coating, the product may be made by coating a transfer belt which is then brought into contact with the substrate after cooling: if the relative adhesion is correct then the coating will transfer to the new substrate from the transfer belt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42853728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42853728", "title": "Howard Richards (academic)", "text": "Howard Richards (academic)\n\nHoward Richards (born June 10, 1938) is a philosopher of Social Science who works with the concepts of \"basic cultural structures\" and \"constitutive rules\". He holds the title of Research Professor of Philosophy at Earlham College, a liberal arts college in Richmond, Indiana, United States, the Quaker School where he taught for thirty years. He officially retired from Earlham College, together with his wife Caroline Higgins in 2007, but retained the title of Research Professor of Philosophy. He has a PhD in Philosophy from the University of California, Santa Barbara, a Juris Doctor (J.D.) from the Stanford Law School, an Advanced Certificate in Education (ACE) from Oxford University (UK) and a PhD in Educational Planning from the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education (OISE), University of Toronto, Canada. He now teaches at the University of Santiago, Chile, and has ongoing roles at the University of South Africa (UNISA) and the University of Cape Town's Graduate School of Business program. He is founder of the Peace and Global Studies Program and co-founder of the Business and Nonprofit Management Program at Earlham.\n\nHoward Richards was born in Pasadena. California, United States, the eldest child of Kenneth F. Richards, a truck mechanic, originally from Connecticut, and his wife Donna. It was his mother's intellectual interest in philosophers such as Henri Bergson which prompted the family to break its ties with mormonism. His paternal grandparents fell into unemployment in Connecticut during the Great Depression and moved to Pasadena in 1932. It was his uncle Jack from his mother's side, who died during World War II, and especially his mother who fostered his early intellectual interest.\n\nAfter graduating from Redlands High School, CA, in June 1956, Richards enrolled in the same year as a Philosophy undergraduate at Yale. Being a top student, he was allowed to skip one year of the normal three year Major in Philosophy course. Afterwards he was admitted to Stanford Law School in 1958, graduating with a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree in 1961. Later in that year he enrolled in graduate school at the University of California Santa Barbara, earning an M.A. in Philosophy there in 1964 with a thesis on Jean-Paul Sartre. Simultaneously he worked at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions think tank where he contributed several articles to the in-house Center Magazine. In 1965 he left for Chile, where they ultimately would settle in the town of Limache. Soon after their arrival, Howard took up the post of Dean of Studies at the Santiago College, (a college in Chile is a secondary school). While in Santiago, Howard joined the Chilean Ministry of Education as an advisor to President Eduardo Frei's Educational Reform, working on a Secondary Curriculum influenced by the ideas of the Brazilian Educator Paulo Freire In late 1970 Richards and his family left for the UK where Richards enrolled for an Advanced Certificate in Education (ACE) at Oxford University, simultaneously doing one on one tutorials and attending seminars by the philosophers Rom Harré and A. J. Ayer. He graduated with an honors thesis on Piaget. Back in Chile in 1972, now under president Salvador Allende, he continued to work with Freire's ideas at CIDE (Centro de Investigación y Desarrollo de la Educación - Educational Research and Development Center) where he founded the Parents and Children Program (Programa Padres e Hijos - PHH), a Community Development combined with a Parent Education program.\n\nRichards and his family left Chile in 1974, after Pinochet's 1973 coup d'état, but not before having helped friends and colleagues escape Pinochet's DINA police. The philosophy curriculum Richards had helped develop was repealed shortly after the coup, but was adopted in several other Latin American countries. In September 1974 Richards and his family returned to the USA where he started work at Earlham College in Richmond, Indiana. Later that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in Philosophy at the University of California Santa Barbara, having done the preparatory work when still in Chile. While based in Richmond, he attended the Lawrence Kohlberg Summer School on Moral Education at Harvard University. Richards became a professor at Earlham College and was the founding director of its Peace and Global Studies program until 1989 and part-time Director until 2004. Between 1981 and 1985, Richards combined commitments in Richmond with those at OISE, Toronto, with the occasional stay in Quebec where their daughters were studying at a French-speaking school, he enrolled in another PhD program in Education, with a first field in curriculum planning and a second field in applied psychology and moral education, at the University of Toronto's Institute for Studies in Education (UT/OISE), which he successfully completed with a doctoral thesis based on the Chilean PPH program. He also became an active contributor to the OISE-based active think-tank about the new economic paradigm known as The Transformative Learning Centre (TLC).\n\nAt Stanford Law School (1958–61) he co-founded the Stanford Political Union's Socialist Caucus, became involved in the Peace Movement and began volunteer work for farm labor causes. He co-founded, with Stanford radical books seller Roy Kepler, Ira Sandperl and others, the Peninsula Peace Center, effectively running it for a while. He was also editor and author of a modest journal called \"Utopian Papers\". After graduation from law school (1961), he joined the Santa Barbara, California Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions headed by Robert Hutchins to whom he became a personal assistant, and became the first volunteer attorney for Cesar Chavez' Farm Workers Association when he started organizing the FWA in Delano, California. He worked as evaluator of cultural change projects in Costa Rica, Ecuador, Bolivia and Chile He also did evaluative work on economic institutions (\"Economía Solidaria\") in Argentina. Economic theory and Community Development together with Public Employment Programs are his more recent research areas.\n\nHe is on the Advisory Board of Human Dignity and Humiliation Studies (HumanDHS), a global transdisciplinary fellowship of concerned academics and practitioners who wish to promote dignity and transcend humiliation. Richards' principal teaching experience stretches from 1974 to 2007 as Professor of Philosophy and Education on the Peace and Global Studies Program (PAGS) at Earlham College. When no longer at Earlham, he taught short courses in different international locations. Starting in 2009 he became a distinguished fellow of the South African Research Chairs Initiative in Development Education (SARChI) based at the University of South Africa (UNISA) Pretoria, and then a collaborator at the Johannesburg-based Seriti Institute with Dr. Gavin Andersson. In South Africa, too, he teaches in the Executive MBA Program at the University of Cape Town. He is also co-chair of the Chilean group Repensar Ia Economía (Re-thinking the Economy).\n\nRichards was the first volunteer attorney for Cesar Chavez's United Farm Workers of America, protecting the union's funds against grower lawsuits. In 1983 he became member of the American Bankruptcy Institute. In 1989 he started practicing law in Santa Barbara, joining the Legal Aid Foundation and specializing in bankruptcy, In 1990 he also was a voluntary attorney at the Los Angeles Free Clinic, a practice he wound up in 2004, when he moved back to Limache, Chile.\n\n\nRichards has also published fourteen other books some in English and some in Spanish, among the latter, Richards, 1987, \"Ética y Economía\" (Ethics and Economics), and González Meyer & Richards (2012)\n\"Hacia otras Economias. Critica al paradigma dominante\" (Towards other Economies - Critique of the dominant Paradigm). A list of Richards' other books, articles, conferences \nand speeches (e.g. Howard Richards, 1995 Nehru Lectures) can be found on HR Professor of Peace and Global Studies (up to 2010), HR Bibliography, HR website and the more recent Unbounded Organization webpage.\n\nRichards married Caroline Higgins in July 1965. They have two daughters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5406935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5406935", "title": "In Defense of Global Capitalism", "text": "In Defense of Global Capitalism\n\nIn Defense of Global Capitalism (in Swedish: \"Till världskapitalismens försvar\") is a book by Swedish writer Johan Norberg promoting economic globalization and free trade. The book was originally published in May 2001 by the Swedish think tank Timbro. Since then, a number of translations into other languages have followed.\n\nIn the book, Norberg examines the arguments put forward by the anti-globalization movement. According to Norberg, \"the diffusion of capitalism in the last decades has lowered poverty rates and created opportunities for individuals all over the world. Living standards and life expectancy has risen fast in most places. World hunger, infant mortality, and inequality have diminished. This is because of economic and technological development that is the result of free market policies. The poor countries that have liberalized their economies have shown impressive results, while those that have not are stuck in deep misery. Therefore, we need more capitalism and globalisation if we want a better world, not less\".\n\nAs of 2008, the book has been translated into a dozen of languages including: English, German, Dutch, Turkish, Estonian, French, Finnish, Spanish, Chinese, Polish, and Czech. Additional translations are available in Arabic, Russian and Mongolian.\n\nThe book was also the basis for the Channel 4 2003 documentary film \"Globalisation is Good\", which was presented by Norberg.\n\nNick Gillespie, editor-in-chief of \"Reason\", wrote on the book: \"A powerful moral and economic case for globalization. Norberg throws rhetorical Molotov cocktails both at left-wing critics who would condemn developing countries to poverty by insisting on First World workplace and environmental standards as a prerequisite for trade and at Western governments whose free market rhetoric is shamefully undercut by draconian tariffs on textiles and agriculture, the two areas in which the developing world can actually compete.\"\n\nSamuel Brittan of \"Financial Times\" wrote:\n\"Giving clear and verifiable sources, he nails one by one the fallacies and selective statistics that are used by the anti-capitalist protesters.\"\n\nAnne Applebaum of \"Washington Post\" wrote: \"Johan Norberg makes the case that free trade is good for the developing world, good for freedom, good for social progress, even if the dull old Marxists refuse to see it. It can be no accident that not one but two glamorous young pro-capitalists have emerged in Europe over the past year. [Norberg and France's Sabine Herold] ...the [anti-globalization] movement has in recent years provided a cushion for those politicians – European, American, Japanese and developing world alike -- who drag their feet about opening markets. Maybe now, if the young, the hip and the free-thinking start pushing the other way, the ministers in their suits will be forced to listen too\".\n\nBen Stein, former speechwriter for U.S. Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford, wrote: \"Johan Norberg's book is a stunningly insightful, brilliantly detailed refutation of the crank theories of the anti-globalists. \"In Defense of Global Capitalism\" is a shining example of what a gifted mind can do working with the truth to advance the cause of capitalism, which in the end is the cause of every decent man and woman\".\n\nWilliam H. Peterson of \"Washington Times\" wrote: \"I hail him [Norberg] for making his case for globalization with solid facts, statistics, bar-charts, and lots of flesh-and-blood examples drawn from his travels.\"\n\nDave O'Brien of \"Winnipeg Free Press\" called Norberg \"Europe's answer to our own Naomi Klein\" and Jacqueline Thorpe of the Canadian \"National Post\" wrote: \"It is a sweet irony that the task of defending global capitalism from the likes of Canada´s own Naomi 'No Logo' Klein has fallen on the shoulders of a pony-tailed Swede who started out as an anarchist obsessed with goth music and black clothes. But it is a role Johan Norberg, author of In Defence of Global Capitalism and at 30, every bit as good-looking as left-wing pin-up Ms Klein, has easily morphed into. ...His book, which won the Antony Fisher Memorial Award in 2002, counters anti-globalization arguments with facts, figures, but mostly common sense\".\n\nFormer chairman of the National Bank of Poland Leszek Balcerowicz wrote: \"The liberal cause has obtained a powerful communicator, Mr Johan Norberg from Sweden. He combines mastery of facts and a deep understanding of theories, with the gift of lucid and emotionally moving argumentation.\"\n\nSwedish Professor of Philosophy and socialist Torbjörn Tännsjö wrote: \"Johan Norberg has written an agreeable book in defence of capitalism and globalisation... Even in labour movement discussion circles I think it would repay close study\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27796340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27796340", "title": "Independent Online Booksellers Association", "text": "Independent Online Booksellers Association\n\nThe Independent Online Booksellers Association (IOBA) is a trade association of independent used and rare booksellers who sell online.\n\nIOBA was founded in 1999 by a group of independent booksellers to address the opportunities and challenges of the emerging online book selling market. Its purpose is to promote internet bookselling and foster the interests of internet booksellers. On August 22, 2002, IOBA was incorporated in the state of Delaware as a non-profit organization.\n\nIOBA has over 300 members internationally.\nIts members sell books through venues including brick and mortar stores, their own websites, book fairs, and online bookselling services, but all members have some or all of their stock available online.\n\nTo join, an applicant must have online bookselling experience, a minimum number of books listed, a business license as required by their place of residence, and book descriptions and condition statements presented in terms recognized by the bookselling profession. In addition, the applicant must abide by IOBA's Code of Ethics, which spells out professional standards and return policies.\n\nApplicants who do not meet membership requirements may be eligible for the IOBA Mentorship Program, which matches a professional member with the applicant for one-on-one assistance in developing the applicant's business to meet IOBA standards.\n\nIOBA operates under a set of bylaws and is governed by a board of directors elected by the membership. The Board of Directors consists of a four-person Executive Committee and six At-Large Representatives. The Executive Committee is composed of the officers, who are each elected for a one-year term: President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer. The six At-Large Representatives each serve a three-year term with staggered election dates so that two are elected each year.\n\nStanding committees further the work of IOBA: Membership, Bylaws, Finance, Internet Operations, and Public Relations. The Chairs of these committees are appointed by the President, and are ex-officio, non-voting board members.\n\nSee which states:\n\nThe Independent Online Booksellers Association promotes independent online bookselling by:\n\nThe IOBA provides resources to booksellers and the general public that promote professionalism and transparency in book descriptions and the selling process. These include a Code of Ethics to which members are required to adhere, guidelines for book condition descriptions, definitions of book-related terms and abbreviations, and an annotated list of reference works useful to booksellers and book buyers.\n\nIOBA supports professional education for booksellers, and offers an annual scholarship contest. The 2010 contest offered two full-tuition scholarships with a stipend for travel expenses. One of these scholarships was reserved for the Colorado Antiquarian Book Seminar (CABS).\nThe other scholarship could be used at CABS, the Rare Book School (RBS), the California Rare Book School (CalRBS) or the London Rare Book School.\n\nIOBA publishes an online magazine called \"The Standard\", with articles pertinent to the bookselling trade and to collectors. It is primarily written by the membership to share their experiences and expertise, but it is available to the general public.\n\nIOBA reassures customers with a Book Buyer's Bill of Rights that guarantees accurate descriptions, reasonable shipping costs, and a satisfaction guaranteed return policy.\n\nIOBA monitors organizations that affect online bookselling and sends alerts to its own members, or writes letters on behalf of the IOBA membership. For example, in December 2009, IOBA issued a warning advisory to members about changing description standards on Half.com that could jeopardize a sellers Half.com and eBay accounts. In early 2010, IOBA sent an official letter to authorities in the United Kingdom (including the UK's OFT), France, Germany and the European Union, protesting at Amazon \"Price Parity Policy\" labeling it \"dangerously anti‐competitive\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3628649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3628649", "title": "Industry Classification Benchmark", "text": "Industry Classification Benchmark\n\nThe Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB) is an industry classification taxonomy launched by Dow Jones and FTSE in 2005 and now owned solely by FTSE International. It is used to segregate markets into sectors within the macroeconomy. The ICB uses a system of 10 industries, partitioned into 19 supersectors, which are further divided into 41 sectors, which then contain 114 subsectors.\n\nThe ICB is used globally (though not universally) to divide the market into increasingly specific categories, allowing investors to compare industry trends between well-defined subsectors. The ICB replaced the legacy FTSE and Dow Jones classification systems on 3 January 2006, and is used today by the NASDAQ, NYSE and several other markets around the globe. All ICB sectors are represented on the New York Stock Exchange except Equity Investment Instruments (8980) and Nonequity Investment Instruments (8990).\n\nDow Jones divested itself of its 50% interest in the ICB in 2011 and announced it was creating its own version of it.\n\nNote that the terms \"industry\" and \"sector\" are reversed from the \"Global Industry Classification Standard\" (GICS) taxonomy and the more common usage by professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "11941961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11941961", "title": "Intellectual property valuation", "text": "Intellectual property valuation\n\nValuation is considered as one of the most critical areas in finance; it plays a key role in many areas of finance such as buy/sell, solvency, merger and acquisition.\n\nThere are numerous individual reasons or motivations for conducting an intellectual property valuation or economic appraisal analysis. A valuation is prepared, for example, for transactions, pricing and strategic purposes, financing securitization and collateralization, tax planning and compliance, and litigation support.\n\nIntellectual property derives its value from a wide range of significant parameters such as market share, barriers to entry, legal protection, IP’s profitability, industrial and economic factors, growth projections, remaining economic life, and new technologies.\n\nThe valuation process necessitates gathering much more information as well as in-depth understanding of economy, industry, and specific business that directly affect the value of the intellectual property. Therefore, such information may be gathered from external and / or internal sources. Finally, the information is devoted to be turned into financial models to estimate the fundamental value of a particular type of intellectual property based on such adapted International Valuation Standards.\n\n\nThe valuation analysts use numerous approaches in order to reach a reasonable indication of a defined value for the subject intangible assets on a certain date which is referred to as the valuation date. The most common approaches to estimate the fundamental or fair value of the intellectual property are defined as the following:\n1. Cost approach: The cost approach is based on the economic principle of substitution. This principle states that an investor will pay no more for an asset than the cost to obtain, by purchasing or constructing, a substitute asset of equal utility. There are several cost approach valuation methods, the most common being the historical cost, replacement cost, and replication cost.\n\n2. Market approach: The market approach is based on the economic principle of competition and equilibrium. These principles conclude that, in a free and unrestricted market, supply and demand factors will drive the price of an asset at equilibrium point. Furthermore, it provides an indication of the value by comparing the price at which similar property has exchanged between willing buyers and sellers. Data on such similar transactions may be accessed in several public sources, including specialized royalty rate databases.\n\n3. Income approach: This approach estimates the fair value of intellectual property by discounting the future economic benefits of ownership at an appropriate discount rate.\n\n4. Direct approach: The direct approach is based on the current value of shares of intellectual property in an Intellectual Property (IP) Share Market.\n\n5. Using the pay-off method on top of the four above mentioned methods is a way to enhance the valuation and analysis of intellectual property \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16809636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16809636", "title": "Involuntary unemployment", "text": "Involuntary unemployment\n\nInvoluntary unemployment occurs when a person is willing to work at the prevailing wage yet is unemployed. Involuntary unemployment is distinguished from voluntary unemployment, where workers choose not to work because their reservation wage is higher than the prevailing wage. In an economy with involuntary unemployment there is a surplus of labor at the current real wage. Involuntary unemployment cannot be represented with a basic supply and demand model at a competitive equilibrium: All workers on the labor supply curve above the market wage would voluntarily choose not to work, and all those below the market wage would be employed. Given the basic supply and demand model, involuntarily unemployed workers lie somewhere off of the labor supply curve. Economists have several theories explaining the possibility of involuntary unemployment including implicit contract theory, disequilibrium theory, staggered wage setting, and efficiency wages.\n\nModels based on implicit contract theory, like that of Azariadis (1975), are based on the hypothesis that labor contracts make it difficult for employers to cut wages. Employers often resort to layoffs rather than implement wage reductions. Azariadis showed that given risk-averse workers and risk-neutral employers, contracts with the possibility of layoff would be the optimal outcome.\n\nEfficiency wage models suggest that employers pay their workers above market clearing wages in order to enhance their productivity. In efficiency wage models based on shirking, employers are worried that workers may shirk knowing that they can simply move to another job if they are caught. Employers make shirking costly by paying workers more than the wages they would receive elsewhere. This gives workers an incentive not to shirk. When all firms behave this way, an equilibrium is reached where there are unemployed workers willing to work at prevailing wages.\nFollowing earlier disequilibrium research including that of Robert Barro and Herschel Grossman, work by Edmond Malinvaud clarified the distinction between classical unemployment, where real wages are too high for markets to clear, and Keynesian unemployment, involuntary unemployment due to inadequate aggregate demand. In Malinvaud's model, classical unemployment is remedied by cutting the real wage while Keynesian unemployment requires an exogenous stimulus in demand. Unlike implicit contrary theory and efficiency wages, this line of research does not rely on a higher than market-clearing wage level. This type of involuntary unemployment is consistent with Keynes's definition while efficiency wages and implicit contract theory do not fit well with Keynes's focus on demand deficiency.\n\nFor many economists, involuntary unemployment is a real-world phenomenon of central importance to economics. Many economic theories have been motivated by the desire to understand and control involuntary unemployment. However, acceptance of the concept of involuntary unemployment isn't universal among economists. Some do not accept it as a real or coherent aspect of economic theory. \n\nShapiro and Stiglitz, developers of an influential shirking model, stated \"To us, involuntary unemployment is a real and important phenomenon with grave social consequences that needs to be explained and understood.\"\n\nMancur Olson argued that real world events like the Great Depression could not be understood without the concept of involuntary unemployment. He argued against economists who denied involuntary unemployment and put their theories ahead of \"common sense and the observations and experiences of literally hundreds of millions of people... that there is also involuntary unemployment and that it is by no means an isolated or rare phenomenon\".\n\nOther economists do not believe that true involuntary unemployment exists or question its relevance to economic theory. Robert Lucas claims \"...there is an involuntary element in all unemployment in the sense that no one chooses bad luck over good; there is also a voluntary element in all unemployment, in the sense that, however miserable one's current work options, one can always choose to accept them\" and \"the unemployed worker at any time can always find some job at once\". Lucas dismissed the need for theorists to explain involuntary unemployment since it is \"not a fact or a phenomenon which it is the task of theorists to explain. It is, on the contrary, a theoretical construct which Keynes introduced in the hope it would be helpful in discovering a correct explanation for a genuine phenomenon: large-scale ﬂuctuations in measured, total unemployment.\" Along those lines real business cycle and other models from Lucas's new classical school explain fluctuations in employment by shifts in labor supply driven by changes in workers' productivity and preferences for leisure.\n\nInvoluntary unemployment is also conceptually problematic with search and matching theories of unemployment. In these models, unemployment is voluntary in the sense that a worker might choose to endure unemployment during a long search for a higher paying job than those immediately available; however, there is an involuntary element in the sense that a worker does not have control of the economic circumstances that force them to look for new work in the first place.\n\n"}
{"id": "43191315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43191315", "title": "John Drummond (1676–1742)", "text": "John Drummond (1676–1742)\n\nJohn Drummond (1676 – 20 December 1742) was a Scottish banker, merchant and politician.\n\nHe was the third son George Drummond of Blair Drummond, Perthshire, and his wife Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Gilbert Ramsay, 1st Baronet, from Bamff in Perthshire.\n\nIn 1691 he moved to Amsterdam, where he became a successful merchant and banker. There he met and befriended James Brydges (later Duke of Chandos), who assisted his career thereafter.\n\nHe was the Member of Parliament (MP) for Perth Burghs from 1727 until his death in 1742.\n"}
{"id": "13019108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13019108", "title": "Khalid Muhmood", "text": "Khalid Muhmood\n\nKhalid Muhmood MBE (born September 1970) is an educationist and an entrepreneur. He is the co-founder of the British University Vietnam (BUV), Apollo English and British Education Partnership. In addition, he served as the Chairman of British Business Group Vietnam (BBGV) initially in Hanoi in 2003 and then nationwide from 2008 to 2010. He is also the Chairman of the Education Working Group at the Vietnam Business Forum (co-chaired by the International Finance Corporation, World Bank and Ministry of Planning and Investment).\n\nIn recognition to his contributions to Vietnam's education, Khalid has received awards from both the Vietnam Government and the UK government. He was the first non-diplomat foreigner to receive a Medal for Cause of Education from the Ministry of Education and Training (Vietnam) in 2006, and in 2008, he was awarded the Member of British Empire (MBE) from Queen Elizabeth II for his dedication to the education development in Vietnam.\n\nKhalid Muhmood was born in England. He holds a bachelor's degree in Business and Law at Hertfordshire University and a Postgraduate Certificate in Education at the University of Exeter. His first job was teaching overseas at the Singapore International School where he taught Mathematics and English for two years before moving to Vietnam. His brother Zee M Kane, lives in London and serves as the Editor-in-Chief of The Next Web. His brother Tareq lives in Brunei and works as the CEO the international financial group, HSBC Holdings.\n\nKhalid Muhmood's contributions to Vietnam's education have been recognised by both the Vietnam Government and the UK Government. He was the first foreigner in the private sector in Vietnam to receive the Medal for the Cause of Education, awarded by the Ministry of Education and Training (Vietnam) in 2006. In the same year, he also received the Award for significant contribution to economic and social developments from Hanoi People's Committee.\n\nIn 2008, Khalid was awarded the Member of British Empire (MBE) by Queen Elizabeth II for his dedication to contributing to the education in Vietnam.\n\n"}
{"id": "7129127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7129127", "title": "Letter of recommendation", "text": "Letter of recommendation\n\nA letter of recommendation or recommendation letter, also known as a letter of reference, reference letter or simply reference, is a document in which the writer assesses the qualities, characteristics, and capabilities of the person being recommended in terms of that individual's ability to perform a particular task or function. Letters of recommendation are typically related to employment (such a letter may also be called an employment reference or job reference), admission to institutions of higher education, or scholarship eligibility. Recommendation letters are usually specifically requested to be written about someone, and are therefore addressed to a particular requester (such as a new employer, university admissions officer, etc.), although they may also be issued to the person being recommended without specifying an addressee.\n\nReferences may also be required of companies seeking to win contracts, particularly in the fields of engineering, consultancy, industry and construction, and with regard to public procurement and tenders. Reference letters for organizations are used to assess its ability to deliver the required level of service.\n\nSome applications, such as professional schools give applicants the choice to waive their right to view their letters or not. Usually, applicants are encouraged to waive their rights because if they do not, it is a sign they are not confident in their recommenders.\n\nThe person providing a reference is called a referee. An employment reference letter is usually written by a former employer or manager, but references can also be requested from co-workers, customers and vendors. Teachers and professors often supply references for students who have taken their classes. Reference letters for organizations are usually supplied by parties to which the company has provided similar services in the past. \n\nThe employment reference letter can cover topics such as:\n\nIn some countries, elements of performance are evaluated using established forms of expression, sometimes euphemistic. For example, in the German-language \"Arbeitszeugnis\", the following terms are frequently used:\n\nThis language established itself as an unwritten code in the employment world. Its purpose was to give even weakly performing employees a letter of recommendation that does not sound negative. However, the euphemistically glazed-over descriptions are now codified and generally known, so that the original cryptic intent is no longer served. Nonetheless, it is still standard to use this codified language.\n\nMost potential employers will contact referees to obtain references before offering a job to a new employee. A survey by the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) found that eight out of ten resource professionals said they regularly conduct reference checks for professional (89%), executive (85%), administrative (84%) and technical (81%) positions. Candidates are advised to ensure that they provide a suitable list of referees to their new prospective employer or institution, and to contact those referees to ensure that they are able and willing to provide a suitable reference. In some cases employers will contact a candidate's former company for a reference even if no contact is supplied by the candidate.\n\nSome employers may not be willing to provide reference letters because they may be worried about potential lawsuits. In this case, the employer may only provide the job title, dates of employment and salary history for the employee. Finland, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Hungary and Bulgaria are the only countries in Europe where employees can legally claim an employment reference, including the right to a correct, unambiguous and benevolent appraisal.\n\nWhile there is no common law duty to provide a reference, the Supreme Court of Canada has held that a refusal to do so may constitute \"conduct that is unfair or is in bad faith\" with respect to a wrongful dismissal, and thus \"indicative of the type of conduct that ought to merit compensation by way of an addition to the notice period.\" There is a duty of care to ensure that, where one is provided, it is accurate and fair and not give a misleading impression, as held by the House of Lords in \"Spring v Guardian Assurance plc\". If an employer goes beyond what a reference should contain, or if it gives inaccurate or misleading information, liability may arise in the areas of breach of statutory duty, negligent misstatement, deceit, defamation or malicious falsehood. It does not matter what form the reference might take.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, references received by an employer from another person or organization can be disclosed to the person about whom they are written under the subject access provisions of the Data Protection Act 1998, but certain confidentiality considerations apply as to the identity of the person giving the reference. As a result, together with the duty of care under \"Spring\", many organizations have issued guidance as to best practice to be undertaken by reference providers.\n\nThe duty of care has also been held to apply in non-reference situations, as noted in 2011 in \" McKie v Swindon College\". In another case, the Court of Appeal of England and Wales has held that \"a reference must not give an unfair or misleading impression overall, even if its discrete components are factually correct.\" However, while a reference must be accurate and fair, it is not necessary to report all material facts concerning an individual, but it can be argued that, if an agreed reference arising from a settlement agreement is misleadingly incomplete, the employer can be sued by a subsequent employer for breaching its duty of care. The Employment Appeal Tribunal, in an unfair dismissal case, ruled that, in preparing a reference, it was not reasonable to provide details of complaints against an employee of which the employee was not aware.\n\nThe Court of Appeal has further held that, if an employee leaves when an investigation is ongoing but has not been concluded, or where issues arise after an employee leaves that have not been investigated, employers can disclose this information but should do so in a measured and fair way, which will be particularly important if to omit this information would mean providing a misleading reference.\n\nIn 2016, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority are issuing rules that will require the furnishing of references, before any approval or certification may be given by them, as well as specifying the information that they must contain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42290123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42290123", "title": "List of Six Sigma certification organizations", "text": "List of Six Sigma certification organizations\n\nThis is a list of notable organizations that provide Six Sigma certification.\n\n"}
{"id": "26748847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26748847", "title": "Los Angeles City Council District 14", "text": "Los Angeles City Council District 14\n\nLos Angeles City Council District 14 is one of the 15 districts of the Los Angeles City Council. It is a primarily Latino district in Boyle Heights and Northeast Los Angeles. Council Member Jose Huizar has represented it since 2005.\n\nDistrict 14 consists of all or part of the neighborhoods of the Downtown, Boyle Heights, Eagle Rock, El Sereno, Garvanza, Glassell Park, Lincoln Heights, and Monterey Hills. The Boyle Heights and Northeast sections are connected by a narrow strip of land. Huizar maintains field offices in Downtown, Boyle Heights, El Sereno and Eagle Rock.\n\nA new city charter effective in 1925 replaced the former \"at large\" voting system for a nine-member council with a district system with a 15-member council. Each district was to be approximately equal in population, based upon the voting in the previous gubernatorial election; thus redistricting was done every four years. (At present, redistricting is done every ten years, based upon the preceding U.S. census results.) The numbering system established in 1925 for City Council districts began with No. 1 in the north of the city, the San Fernando Valley, and ended with No. 15 in the south, the Harbor area.\n\nDistrict 14 has always represented Eagle Rock and Highland Park. As the city's population increased, it has expanded southward. The rough boundaries or descriptions of the district have been as follows:\n\n1925 The communities of Eagle Rock, Highland Park and Annandale.\n\n1928 Westward extension to Allesandro Street.\n\n1932–33: East boundary: South Pasadena and Pasadena. North: Glendale. West: Glendale Boulevard.\n\n1935 Same general area as 1932, with the western boundary at Griffith Park, thus including the Atwater area.\n\n1940 Same general area as previously, with the west boundary at Glendale Boulevard.\n\n1955: Rose Hill [sic] is now included in the district's description.\n\n1971 \"The district begins in the East Los Angeles Mexican-American barrios of El Sereno and Lincoln Heights extends westward across the Pasadena Freeway to Anglo middle-class homes in Glassell Park, Highland Park, Hermon, and Eagle Rock through Griffith Park. Around the western edge of the district is the Los Feliz District, with some of the city's more expensive homes.\"\n\n1986 No longer includes Los Feliz. Southern reach includes El Sereno, College Avenue, Huntington Drive and portions of Alhambra Avenue and Valley Boulevard, then across the San Bernardino Freeway to Brooklyn Avenue, East Beverly Boulevard, Fourth Street and Whittier Boulevard.\n\nDistrict 14 has been represented by 10 men and no women:\n\n"}
{"id": "7261306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7261306", "title": "Louise Piëch", "text": "Louise Piëch\n\nLouise Hedwig Anna Wilhelmine Piëch (née Porsche; 29 August 1904, in Wiener Neustadt – 10 February 1999, in Zell am See) was the daughter of automotive pioneer Ferdinand Porsche. In 1928, she married Anton Piëch, a lawyer from Vienna who from 1941 to 1945 led the KdF-Wagen (Volkswagen) factory in KdF-Stadt (present day Wolfsburg). \n\nThe couple had four children: Ernst, Louise, Ferdinand and Hans-Michel.\n\nWhen her husband died in 1952, the Austrian businesswoman imported Porsche and Volkswagen cars to Austria. \n\nWhen her son Ferdinand was in charge of Porsche's sports car racing program in the late 1960s, a second works team was set up, called Porsche Salzburg. One of their cars scored the marque's first overall win at Le Mans in 1970.\n\n"}
{"id": "38155066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38155066", "title": "Mark Phooi", "text": "Mark Phooi\n\nMark Phooi Peck Lye (born 22 August 1962) is a Singaporean entrepreneur in the design industry. He is the founder and CEO of First Media Pte Ltd (FM), a holding company that manages a collection of design agencies and design institutions.\n\nHis first business venture at the age of 27 was a design agency he started on his own with a capital of S$2,000. He called it Lancer Design, deriving the name Lancer from the word \"freelancer\". At the age of 32, he earned his first million.\n\nIn 2006, Phooi founded First Media Design School (FMDS), a progressive private educational institution specialising in the field of design. In August 2011, FMDS was awarded the Council for Private Education's (CPE) four-year EduTrust mark.\n\nPhooi was born in Singapore. His father worked as a contractor for PSA International and his mother was a contract labourer. At the age of 9, he joined The Singapore Scout Association(SSA) as a Sea Scout and at the age of 12, he became a qualified lifeguard.\n\nPhooi attended his secondary school education from the age of 13 to 16 at Tanglin Secondary School. At the age of 24, he enrolled into a Fine Arts diploma program at the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts(NAFA), but switched to a Graphic Design pathway soon after. He graduated from NAFA in 1989 at the age of 27. In 2002, he graduated from the University of New South Wales with a Master of Design.\n\nWhile waiting to be enlisted into the National Service, Phooi worked for a year as a lifeguard at Big Splash, a water theme park in Singapore that was launched in 1976. During this period, he also taught swimming to a handful of students, aged between 6 and 10 years old, on a part-time basis.\n\nWhile serving his term with the Singapore Armed Forces, Phooi continued to coach swimming during his weekends to supplement his income. After his National Service term was completed, he started to teach on a full-time basis, only retiring from coaching at the age of 29.\n\nMidway through his coaching career, Phooi embarked on a training program to attain the CLASS 1 Swimming Coach qualification. As part this program, he was attached to the People's Association swimming team, under the tutelage of the late Kee Soon Bee, a prolific national swimming coach. Kee was well known for being able to spot and groom\ncompetitive national swimmers such as Junie Sng, Mark Chay and Joscelin Yeo.\n\nPhooi began his career as a designpreneur (entrepreneur in the design industry) by setting up Lancer Design in 1989. During its early years, he was running the company as a one-man show, which meant that he had to adopt all the required roles to sustain his company, such as being the salesman, project coordinator, creative head, planner and administrator.\n\nIn 2002, Mark established First Media Pte Ltd (FM) as a holding company for his design firms and design schools. His design agencies specialised in various design and media disciplines, such as corporate design, interactive media, events, publishing and advertising and promotion. Companies under the First Media brand include Lancer Design and Mint Editions in Singapore, Brand Smart in China, Auromedia, Discover Jakarta and Imago in Indonesia, BnBc Advertising Sdn Bhd and BnBc Events and Promotions Sdn Bhd in Malaysia, Clever Brand Strategy Co. Ltd in Taiwan, and P.0.P. House in Thailand.\n\nIn 2005, FM was one of only five recipients to receive the Enterprise 50 Award – an annual business award recognising Singapore's most promising privately held companies.\n\nIn 2006, Mark was awarded one of the Top Entrepreneurs of the Year Awards (organised by the\nAssociation of Small and Medium Enterprises (ASME) and the Rotary Club of Singapore) – one of the highest business award recognitions in Singapore, and one that no trained designer had ever attained previously.\n\nIn 2007, Mark was also selected as one of the finalists in Singapore's top design accolade – the President's Design Award.\n\nIn 2006, Mark founded First Media Design School (FMDS), a boutique private design institution that offers diploma, advanced diploma and degree programs in the areas Graphic design, Multimedia and Fashion design. Its Bachelor's degree program is conferred by the University of the West of England(UWE).\n\nThe institution's mission statement specifies that FMDS strives to cultivate a new generation of 'whole brain' trained, industry-ready designers who possess both creative and commercial cognitive abilities, through its holistic design thinking and design management teaching system. Its teaching methodology is partly derived from the Herrmann Brain Dominance Instrument system.\n\nThe students enrolled in FMDS consist of a mixture of local and international students, mostly from Indonesia and China. FMDS equips career starters and career switchers with the necessary skills to go from mere practitioner to business-owner. In an interview in 2006, when Mark was asked about how he envisions FMDS to be different from other design schools in Singapore, he said:\n\nIn 2013, Mark co-authored \"Think like a Sage, Work like a Fool, Act like a Criminal\" (), which consists of his biography, and a compilation of business theories, life lessons and personal reflections garnered from the early years of his career as a designpreneur to the present.\n\n"}
{"id": "3264156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3264156", "title": "Measure (data warehouse)", "text": "Measure (data warehouse)\n\nIn a data warehouse, a measure is a property on which calculations (e.g., sum, count, average, minimum, maximum) can be made.\n\nFor example if retail store sold a specific product, the quantity and prices of each item sold could be added or averaged to find the total number of items sold and total or average price of the goods sold.\n\nWhen entering data into a metadata registry such as ISO/IEC 11179, representation terms such as Number, Value and Measure are typically used as measures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37194871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37194871", "title": "Mohammad Safadi", "text": "Mohammad Safadi\n\nMohammad Ahmed Safadi (born 28 March 1944) is a Lebanese businessman, philanthropist, and politician. He was Lebanon's minister of finance between 2011 and 2014.\n\nSafadi was born in Tripoli, Lebanon, on 28 March 1944 to Sunni family. His family are businesspeople, running their own firm in Tripoli.\n\nHe is a graduate of the American University of Beirut where he received a bachelor's degree in business administration in February 1968.\n\nSafadi began his career in the private sector in Lebanon in 1969. In 1975 when the civil war broke out in Lebanon, he began to invest in Saudi Arabia. Therefore, he has many business investments in Saudi Arabia.\n\nHe expanded his business across the Arab world and into Europe in Saudi Arabia. He also worked as business manager in London for Prince Turki bin Nasser, a member of House of Saud. Safadi established Safadi Group Holding in Lebanon in the 1990s.\n\nSafadi has been a member of the Lebanese parliament since 2000 as part of the Tripoli bloc. He served as the minister of public works and transport from 19 July 2005 to July 2008. Safadi also served as acting energy and water minister in 2007 and in 2008. Next, he was appointed minister of economy and trade on 11 July 2008 to the cabinet headed by Fouad Siniora. He was reelected member of parliament in the 2009 elections and he was on the list of the March 14 alliance. Safadi was appointed minister of economy and trade to the cabinet of Saad Hariri on 9 November 2009, and his tenure lasted until June 2011.\n\nSafadi did not support for Saad Hariri in the 2011 cabinet formation talks with Lebanese President Michel Suleiman. Instead, he voted for Najib Mikati during cabinet formation consultations in January 2011. Therefore, he broke with his March 14 allies and sided with the Hezbollah-led March 8 coalition along with Mikati. Safadi became an ally of Mikati after this event.\n\nSafadi served as the minister of finance from 13 June 2011 to February 2014 in the cabinet led by Prime Minister Mikati. Within the cabinet, Safadi is part of the group appointed by the Prime Minister and an independent or non-affiliated minister in the Mikati's cabinet. In October 2012, \"As Safir\" reported that Safadi would not participate in the 2013 parliamentary elections in Tripoli possibly due to health concerns.\n\nSafadi chairs the steering committee of the Middle East Regional Technical Assistance Committee (METAC) of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). He is also the head of the Lebanese-German Parliamentary Friendship Committee and a member of the Economy Commission in the parliament.\n\nSafadi's term as finance minister ended in February 2014 when Ali Hassan Khalil was appointed to the post.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported that Safadi involved in Al Yamama arms deal through an anonymous offshore company, Poseidon. The company was allegedly used to transfer money to Safadi, who was working for Prince Turki bin Nasser, Saudi royal and an air force officer at that time.\n\nOn 5 October 2015, Safadi married Violette Khaïrallah. Previously, he was married and has two children. His son, Ramzi, died in a car crash in England on 10 March 2008. \n"}
{"id": "51210939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51210939", "title": "Moshe Podhorzer", "text": "Moshe Podhorzer\n\nMoshe Podhorzer was born 1945 in Israel. He is an entrepreneur, industrialist and a businessman.\nMoshe was the CEO of Tempo Beverages, founded and owned \"Neviot\"(mineral water) and is very involved in real estate in the United States and Europe.\n\nMoshe was born in Israel. He is the son of Sarah and the attorney Yehuda Aryeh Podhorzer.\n\nMoshe is married to Bilha, the daughter of industrialist Moshe Bornstein the founder and owner of Tempo.\n\nAfter his military service, he studied Economics and Business administration at Bar-Ilan University and\n\nat the same time studied law at the University of Tel Aviv and received his law degree 1972.\n\nToward the end of his studies and upon obtaining his lawyer's license, Moshe joined \"Tempo\" Industries Ltd. and served as the company's CEO for nearly 20 years until the early 90's.\n\nAt \"Tempo\" Podhorzer led a number of strategic and innovative moves that significantly affected the company and the Israeli food and beverage market in general.\n\nTempo, under Moshe's management, was the first to introduce to the Israeli market the PET bottled soft drinks instead of the glass bottles that were customary at the time by all soft drink companies.\n\nIn addition, during this period Tempo became \"Tempo Beer Industries Ltd\" after acquisition of the only beer company in Israel.\n\nAlso during those years, Tempo began producing and marketing Pepsi Cola, which brought about an \"earthquake\" in the beverage market in Israel. Tempo was chosen by the Dutch company \"Heineken\" and became Heineken's representative in Israel.\n\nIn 1989 - Moshe initiated, established, and privately owned the \"Neviot\" company (mineral water), which within a short time managed to hold 50% of the market shares in Israel. After only three years from its establishment, in 1992, it was issued on the Israeli Stock Exchange. Since then, \"Neviot\" has gained an excellent reputation and is a leading brand, all this due to Moshe's reputation and proven management and marketing skills in the food and beverages industry.\n\nIn 2000 – Moshe added the \"Coca-Cola\" company as a partner having Coca Cola acquire 40% of Neviot's stock. Moshe continued to serve as the company's Chairman of the Board. Following this agreement, \"Coca-Cola\" became the distributor for Neviot bottles while \"Neviot\" distributed its own home water containers.\n\n\"In 2003 - Moshe sold 45% of Tempo's stock held by him and his wife to other partners in the company.\n\nIn 2005 – Moshe sold the remaining shares of Neviot to Coca-Cola and left the soft drink industry. That year, he was awarded the Kiryat Shmona City Notable, along with Shlomo Nehama who was the Chairman of the Board of Hapoalim bank at that time and Eli Horowitz, founder and CEO of Teva.\n\nDuring those years, he began to engage in the field of real estate development in Spain and Cyprus, where he established projects for the construction of hundreds of resort units. In the United States and Europe, Moshe continues to invest in real estate by \"Podhorzer Holdings Ltd.\"\n\nAdditional investments are made through his other company investment arm, \"P.I.M – Podhorzer Investment & Management Ltd. P.I.M examines companies that require a \"change of direction\" and invests in them.\n\nMoshe Podhorzer serves as a Member of the Executive Committee and Member of the Board of Trustees of Bar-Ilan University.\n\nPodhorzer lives in Tel Aviv and has four children: Eyal, Dana, Yossi and Yonatan.\n\nHis son Eyal is the owner of Econergy Systems Ltd., which invests in the solar energy field in Israel and in Europe.\n"}
{"id": "46338670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46338670", "title": "National Chamber of Exporters of Sri Lanka", "text": "National Chamber of Exporters of Sri Lanka\n\nNational Chamber of Exporters of Sri Lanka(NCE) is one of the leading business chambers in Sri Lanka which exclusively serves Sri Lankan exporters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "341254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341254", "title": "Overtime", "text": "Overtime\n\nOvertime is the amount of time someone works beyond \"normal working hours\". The term is also used for the pay received for this time. Normal hours may be determined in several ways:\n\nMost nations have overtime labour laws designed to dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their employees to work excessively long hours (such as the situation in the textile mills in the 1920s). These laws may take into account other considerations than humanitarian concerns, such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy. One common approach to regulating overtime is to require employers to pay workers at a higher hourly rate for overtime work. Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged to do so by law, particularly if they believe that they face a backward bending supply curve of labour.\n\nOvertime pay rates can cause workers to work longer hours than they would at a flat hourly rate. Overtime laws, attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly from country to country and between various sectors.\n\n\"Time off in lieu\"; \"compensatory time\"; or \"comp time\" refers to a type of work schedule arrangement that allows (or requires) workers to take time off instead of, or in addition to, receiving overtime pay. A worker may receive overtime pay plus equal time off for each hour worked on certain agreed days, such as public holidays.\n\nIn the United States, such arrangements are currently legal in the public sector but not in the private sector.\n\nFor example, non-exempt workers must receive at least one and one half times their normal hourly wage for every hour worked beyond 40 hours in a work week. For example, workers who clock 48 hours in one week would receive the pay equivalent to 52 hours of work (40 hours + 8 hours at 1.5 times the normal hourly wage). With comp time, the worker could (or would have to) forgo the 12 hours of overtime pay and instead take 8 paid hours off at some future date.\n\nIn some other jurisdictions, such as Canada, employers might be required to pay the overtime at the higher rate (e.g. 1.5 times the normal rate), but also be allowed to require time off in lieu at the normal rate. Thus, an employee might work 48 hours in one week, and 32 hours the next week (assuming over 40 hours is overtime), and be paid an extra amount equivalent to 4 hours work (8 multiplied by 0.5).\n\nIn Australia, such arrangements both in the private and public sector are common.\n\nIn some cases, particularly when employees are represented by a labour union, overtime may be paid at a higher rate than 1.5 times the hourly pay. In some factories, for example, if workers are required to work on a Sunday, they may be paid twice their regular rate (i.e., \"double time\").\n\nDirectives issued by the European Union must be incorporated into law by member states.\n\nDirectives 93/104/EC (1993), 2000/34/EC (2000), which limited working hours, were consolidated into 2003/88/EC (2003). Employers and employees can agree to opt out, under certain circumstances.\n\nThe directives require:\n\nThe directives apply to:\n\nExemptions:\n\nIn Japan the of 1947 provides for an eight-hour work day and 40-hour workweek with at least one day off per week. The act requires a premium of at least 25% over the ordinary hourly wage for any overtime work, 35% for any work on prescribed off days, and an additional 25% for any work between 10 pm and 5 am. Employers must enter into an overtime agreement with a labour representative prior to any overtime work by employees, and this agreement must stipulate to the maximum number of overtime hours that an employee may work, which may be no more than 15 hours per week, 45 hours per month and 360 hours per year.\n\nIn the United States the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 applies to employees in industries engaged in or producing goods for interstate commerce. The FLSA establishes a standard work week of 40 hours for certain kinds of workers, and mandates payment for overtime hours to those workers of one and one-half times the workers' normal rate of pay for any time worked above 40 hours. \n\nThe law creates two broad categories of employees, \n\nEmployers are not required to pay exempt employees overtime but must do so for non-exempt employees. \n\nIndependent contractors are not considered employees and therefore are not protected by the FLSA. Several factors determine whether a worker is an employee, who might be entitled to overtime compensation, or an independent contractor, who would not be so entitled. The employment agreement stating that a party is an independent contractor does not make it necessarily so. The nature of a job determines whether an employee is entitled to overtime pay, not employment status or the field of work.\nClasses of workers who are exempt from the regulation include \n\nTo qualify as an administrative, professional, or executive employee and therefore not be entitled to overtime, three tests must be passed based on salary basis, duties, and salary level. The tests vary between administrative, professional, and executive employees based on their different duties and salary levels. There are many other classes of workers who may be exempt including outside salespeople, certain agricultural employees, certain live-in employees, and certain transportation employees. Employees can neither waive their FLSA protections nor abridge them by contract.\n\nAn employer may not retaliate against an employee for filing a complaint or instituting a proceeding based on the FLSA. An employer that engages in any form of verifiable retaliation would be liable under the Fair Labor Standards Act Section 216(b) for equitable relief including reinstatement, promotion, payment of lost wages, and payment of liquidated damages. Acts of retaliation include terminating employment, disrupting the workplace, threats, acts of physical violence, and constructive discharge.\n\nOut of approximately 120 million American workers, nearly 50 million are exempt from overtime laws (US Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, 1998). In 2004, the United States was 7th out of 24 OECD countries in terms of annual working hours per worker. (See Working time for a complete listing.) In 2015, the United States Department of Labor proposed dramatic changes to certain exemptions from federal minimum wage and overtime requirements. These changes are anticipated to take effect in July 2016, but as of January 2016, still are pending final approval. Proposed changes include: setting the minimum salary level required for exemption for full-time salaried workers at $970 per week, or $50,440 annually (an increase from the current $455 per week, or $23,660 annually) Increasing the total annual compensation required to exempt highly compensated employees to $122,148 annually (from the current $100,000 annually).\n\nOn August 23, 2004, President George W. Bush and the Department of Labor proposed changes to regulations governing implementation of the law. According to one study, the changes would have had significant impact on the number of workers covered by overtime laws and have exempted several million additional workers. The Bush administration maintained that the practical impact on working Americans would be minimal and that the changes would help clarify an outdated regulation. In particular, the new rules would have allowed more companies to offer flextime to their workers in lieu of overtime. The definition of \"exempt employees\" (ineligible for overtime) is regularly tested in the courts. A recent case is Encino Motorcars v. Navarro, which addresses the question of whether automobile dealer service advisors are eligible for overtime.\n\nA company may harm themselves by docking a salaried employee for disciplinary reasons.\n<br>\nUber (company) is an example of a company that, in various jurisdictions, has encountered various legal problems regarding exemptions. The New York Times noted in 2017 that \"Despite their appeal, the apps have faced a wave of criticism, including concerns over wheelchair accessibility and driver pay.\"\n\nThe state of California's overtime laws differ from federal overtime laws in many respects, and they involve overlapping statutes, regulations, and precedents that govern the compensation of employees in California. \nCalifornia employers must comply with both, since there are two sources of applicable law (federal and state).\n\nIn California, based on California Labor Code 1171, only an employment relationship is required for overtime rules to apply. Under the California Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Orders, an \"employer\" is \"any person ... who directly or indirectly, or through an agent or any other person, employs or exercises control over wages, hours, or working conditions of any person.\" Under the California Labor Code, an \"employee\" is \"[any] person, including aliens and minors, rendering actual service in any business for an employer, whether gratuitously or for wages or pay, whether the wages or pay are measured by the standard of time, piece, task, commission, or other method of calculation, and whether the service is rendered on a commission, concessionaire, or other basis.\" \n\nIndependent contractors are not employees covered by overtime laws, so it is important to determine if a worker is an independent contractor or an employee. Under California law, workers are generally presumed to be employees, not Independent contractors. The proper classification of individuals as Independent contractors must, therefore, pass one or more of the various multi-part tests for determining eligibility.\n\nForemost, pursuant to California Labor Code Section 510, non-exempt employees must be compensated at one and a half times the regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of eight hours in a workday, 40 hours in a workweek and the first eight hours of a seventh consecutive workday. Employees in California are entitled to double-time for working more than twelve hour workdays or more than eight hours on the seventh consecutive workday of a single workweek. Under federal law there are only 40 hour weekly overtime limits. This eight hour overtime limit in California frequently gives rise to wage-and-hour litigation for violations of state, but not federal, labour laws.\n\nFor example, \"comp time\" schemes, where employers tell employees that since they worked 10 hours on Monday they can work 6 hours on Tuesday, are illegal because even though the employees are not working more than 40 hours for the purposes of overtime compensation under federal law, they are working more than 8 hours for purposes of California overtime law and rounding the 6- and 10-hour workdays to two 8-hour workdays would cheat the employee out of two hours of overtime pay.\n\nPerhaps the biggest difference between California and federal overtime law relates to the administrative exemption's \"primarily engaged\" in duties that meet the test for the exemption requirement, such as duties that involve exercising independent discretion and judgment as set forth in the controversial Order No. 4. Whereas under the Fair Labor Standards Act \"primarily engaged\" does not necessarily mean at least half, under California wage-and-hour laws, less than half of exempt duties automatically eliminates the overtime exemption.\n\nCalifornia's Labor Code Section 510 was amended and Section 511.5 added in 2016 pursuant to the California Workplace Flexibility Act of 2016. Pursuant to these changes, non-exempt workers have additional options to agree to work beyond eight hours in a workday without triggering an overtime pay obligation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42900251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42900251", "title": "PCIA - The Wireless Infrastructure Association", "text": "PCIA - The Wireless Infrastructure Association\n\nThe Wireless Infrastructure Association (WIA, formerly known as PCIA) is an American trade association for wireless providers and companies that build cell phone towers, rooftop wireless sites, and other facilities that transmit wireless communication signals. \"The Washington Post\" described the industry as \"the people who build all those cell towers so you can actually make those calls, download that data.\" These technologies are collectively referred to as \"wireless telecommunications infrastructure.\"\n\nExamples of companies that are members of WIA include American Tower, Boingo Wireless, Graybar, SOLiD, and Advanced RF Technologies. In all, member companies own and run more than 125,000 towers and antennas in the U.S.\n\nWIA advocates for a variety of issues before the federal government, on topics such as broadband deployment (the act of building wireless broadband infrastructure in the United States), utility pole attachment (adding wireless signal components to utility poles that already exist), wireless network resiliency, public safety, and wireless competition. Every year, WIA hosts a trade show called the Wireless Infrastructure Show.\n\nThe Chairman of WIA is Steven Marshall, president of the U.S. tower division of American Tower, a leading independent owner, operator and developer of wireless and broadcast communications real estate with a global portfolio of approximately 170,000 sites. \n\nJonathan Adelstein, a former FCC commissioner, is the President and CEO of WIA. Adelstein worked in public service for 25 years before joining WIA. In February 2014, Adelstein told C-SPAN that his goal was to bring wireless connectivity to everyone in the United States. Tim House is WIA's Executive Vice President. Before WIA, House worked in consumer product marketing at Discovery Communications.\n\n\"Founding\"\n\n\"Supreme Court\"\n\n\"Collocation law\"\n\"FCC and broadband deployment\"\n\n\"Warriors 4 Wireless\"\n\n\"New headquarters\"\n\nOne of the main issues facing the wireless infrastructure industry is related to federal vs. local oversight of wireless infrastructure activity.\n\nIn a February 2014 article in \"National Law Review\", Washington telecommunications attorneys Dave Thomas and Douglas A. Svor explained the issue and the battle played out between the wireless industry and local governments.\n\nIn their article, Thomas and Svor state that spectrum and infrastructure serve as the most important aspects of federal communications laws in terms of being good for the economy and American competitiveness. For decades, the FCC has worked to make sure that critical communications infrastructure can get built with as little hassle as possible.\n\nIn April 2014, the FCC proposed to simplify the regulatory review process for wireless facilities. These facilities include DAS and small cells (see Small cells and HetNet Forum below for more information).\n\nSmall cells are built smaller than traditional cells that are typically fixed to larege wireless antenna towers. Infrastructure companies attach small cells to utility poles, street light poles, and even traffic lights. The wireless industry has supported the FCC's work in the areas mentioned above, while local governments have typically been opposed.\n\nThomas and Svor wrote:\n\nHetNets, short for \"Heterogeneous Networks\", are a combination of technologies that make quality wireless broadband possible. According to international communications company Ericsson, heterogeneous networks help wireless customers enjoy activities that require a large amount of data, such as watching streaming videos, uploading photos and using cloud storage services. HetNets use both radio and cellular technologies.\n\nTo advocate for deployment of HetNet, WIA runs a membership forum called the HetNet Forum. The purpose of the forum is to advance the development of heterogeneous networks in the United States, as well as to push policies related to distributed antenna systems (DAS), small cells, and fiber backhaul. Several major U.S. wireless carriers, such as AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless, serve as governing members of the forum.\n\nPrior to April 2013, the HetNet Forum had been called the DAS Forum. WIA changed the name to accommodate a growing membership that represented a more diverse group of technologies. Instead of running a forum focusing only on DAS, WIA expanded the forum to focus on several technologies such as microcells, picocells, Wi-Fi and remote radio units, in addition to DAS. As of April 2013, about 60 companies participated as members in the HetNet Forum.\n\nOther trade associations, such as the Small Cell Forum, have competed with WIA for members from the small cell industry.\n\nIn 2014, Senator Al Franken criticized the \"revolving door\" hiring placement of former FCC commissioners. Specifically, Franken criticized the hiring of FCC Commissioner Meredith Baker by Comcast. Franken did not mention WIA in his remarks, but an OpenSecrets.org article covering the remarks mentioned the hiring of former Commissioner Jonathan Adelstein by WIA.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34081355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34081355", "title": "Peter Askin", "text": "Peter Askin\n\nPeter Askin (Born 1940) is an actor, director, producer and screenwriter best known for directing the 2007 film \"Trumbo\", a documentary about the Oscar-winning Hollywood screenwriter Dalton Trumbo who was blacklisted for being a member of the Hollywood Ten. For the film, he worked closely with Trumbo's son, Christopher Trumbo.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family, Askin is the son of Alma Askin, the daughter of Joseph Durst, the founder of the Durst Organization and member of one of the most prominent real estate families in New York City in the 20th century. He was educated at Middlebury College and Columbia University. He trained under Wynn Handman at the American Place Theater in New York City. Askin made his debut in 1986 with \"Down an Alley Filled with Cats.\" Askin was the screenwriter for such films as \"Company Man\" (which he also co-directed) and \"Smithereens\", and he directed and produced the musical \"Hedwig and the Angry Inch\".\n"}
{"id": "788091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=788091", "title": "Psychological trauma", "text": "Psychological trauma\n\nPsychological trauma is a type of damage to the mind that occurs as a result of a distressing event. Trauma is often the result of an overwhelming amount of stress that exceeds one's ability to cope, or integrate the emotions involved with that experience. Trauma may result from a single distressing experience or recurring events of being overwhelmed that can be precipitated in weeks, years, or even decades as the person struggles to cope with the immediate circumstances, eventually leading to serious, long-term negative consequences.\n\nBecause trauma differs between individuals, according to their subjective experiences, people will react to similar traumatic events differently. In other words, not all people who experience a potentially traumatic event will actually become psychologically traumatized. However, it is possible for some people to develop post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after being exposed to a major traumatic event.\nThis discrepancy in risk rate can be attributed to protective factors some individuals may have that enable them to cope with trauma; they are related to temperamental and environmental factors from among others. Some examples are mild exposure to stress early in life, resilience characteristics, and active seeking of help.\n\nThe Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV-TR) defines trauma as direct personal experience of an event that involves actual or threatened death or serious injury; threat to one's physical integrity, witnessing an event that involves the above experience, learning about unexpected or violent death, serious harm, or threat of death, or injury experienced by a family member or close associate. Memories associated with trauma are implicit, pre-verbal and cannot be recalled, but can be triggered by stimuli from the in vivo environment. The person's response to aversive details of traumatic event involve intense fear, helplessness or horror. In children it is manifested as disorganized or agitative behaviors.\n\nTrauma can be caused by a wide variety of events, but there are a few common aspects. There is frequently a violation of the person's core assumptions about the world and their human rights, putting the person in a state of extreme confusion and insecurity. This is seen when institutions depended upon for survival violate, humiliate, betray, or cause major losses or separations instead of evoking aspects like positive self worth, safe boundaries and personal freedom.\n\nPsychologically traumatic experiences often involve physical trauma that threatens one's survival and sense of security. Typical causes and dangers of psychological trauma include harassment, embarrassment, abandonment, abusive relationships, rejection, co-dependence, physical assault, sexual abuse, partner battery, employment discrimination, police brutality, judicial corruption and misconduct, bullying, paternalism, domestic violence, indoctrination, being the victim of an alcoholic parent, the threat or the witnessing of violence (particularly in childhood), life-threatening medical conditions, and medication-induced trauma. Catastrophic natural disasters such as earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, large scale transportation accidents, house or domestic fire, motor vehicle accident, mass interpersonal violence like war, terrorist attacks or other mass victimization like sex trafficking, being taken as a hostage or being kidnapped can also cause psychological trauma. Long-term exposure to situations such as extreme poverty or other forms of abuse, such as verbal abuse, exist independently of physical trauma but still generate psychological trauma.\n\nSome theories suggest childhood trauma can increase one's risk for mental disorders including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, and substance abuse. Childhood adversity is associated with neuroticism during adulthood. \nParts of the brain in a growing child are developing in a sequential and hierarchical order, from least complex to most complex. The brain's neurons are designed to change in response to the constant external signals and stimulation, receiving and storing new information. This allows the brain to continually respond to its surroundings and promote survival. Our five main sensory signals contribute to the developing brain structure and its function. \nInfants and children begin to create internal representations of their external environment, and in particular, key attachment relationships, shortly after birth. Violent and victimizing attachment figures impact infants' and young children's internal representations. The more frequent a specific pattern of brain neurons is activated, the more permanent the internal representation associated with the pattern becomes. This causes sensitization in the brain towards the specific neural network. Because of this sensitization, the neural pattern can be activated by decreasingly less external stimuli. \nChildhood abuse tends to have the most complications with long-term effects out of all forms of trauma because it occurs during the most sensitive and critical stages of psychological development. It could also lead to violent behavior, possibly as extreme as serial murder. For example, Hickey's Trauma-Control Model suggests that \"childhood trauma for serial murderers may serve as a triggering mechanism resulting in an individual's inability to cope with the stress of certain events.\"\n\nOften psychodynamic aspects of trauma are overlooked even by health professionals: \"If clinicians fail to look through a trauma lens and to conceptualize client problems as related possibly to current or past trauma, they may fail to see that trauma victims, young and old, organize much of their lives around repetitive patterns of reliving and warding off traumatic memories, reminders, and affects.\"\n\nPeople who go through these types of extremely traumatic experiences often have certain symptoms and problems afterward. The severity of these symptoms depends on the person, the type of trauma involved, and the emotional support they receive from others. The range of reactions to and symptoms of trauma can be wide and varied, and differ in severity from person to person. A traumatized individual may experience one or several of them.\n\nAfter a traumatic experience, a person may re-experience the trauma mentally and physically, hence trauma reminders, also called triggers, can be uncomfortable and even painful. Re-experiencing can damage people’s sense of safety, self, self-efficacy, as well as their ability to regulate emotions and navigate relationships. They may turn to psychoactive substances including alcohol to try to escape or dampen the feelings. These triggers cause flashbacks, which are dissociative experiences where the person feels as though the events are recurring. Flashbacks can range from distraction to complete dissociation or loss of awareness of the current context. Re-experiencing of symptoms is a sign that the body and mind are actively struggling to cope with the traumatic experience.\n\nTriggers and cues act as reminders of the trauma and can cause anxiety and other associated emotions. Often the person can be completely unaware of what these triggers are. In many cases this may lead a person suffering from traumatic disorders to engage in disruptive behaviors or self-destructive coping mechanisms, often without being fully aware of the nature or causes of their own actions. Panic attacks are an example of a psychosomatic response to such emotional triggers.\n\nConsequently, intense feelings of anger may frequently surface, sometimes in inappropriate or unexpected situations, as danger may always seem to be present due to re-experiencing past events. Upsetting memories such as images, thoughts, or flashbacks may haunt the person, and nightmares may be frequent. Insomnia may occur as lurking fears and insecurity keep the person vigilant and on the lookout for danger, both day and night. Trauma doesn't only cause changes in one's daily functions, but could also lead to morphological changes. Such epigenetic changes can be passed on to the next generation, thus making genetics one of the components of psychological trauma. However, some people are born with or later develop protective factors such as genetics and sex that help lower their risk of psychological trauma.\n\nThe person may not remember what actually happened, while emotions experienced during the trauma may be re-experienced without the person understanding why (see Repressed Memory). This can lead to the traumatic events being constantly experienced as if they were happening in the present, preventing the subject from gaining perspective on the experience. This can produce a pattern of prolonged periods of acute arousal punctuated by periods of physical and mental exhaustion. This can lead to mental health disorders like acute stress and anxiety disorder, traumatic grief, undifferentiated somatoform disorder, conversion disorders, brief psychotic disorder, borderline personality disorder, adjustment disorder, etc.\n\nIn time, emotional exhaustion may set in, leading to distraction, and clear thinking may be difficult or impossible. Emotional detachment, as well as dissociation or \"numbing out\" can frequently occur. Dissociating from the painful emotion includes numbing all emotion, and the person may seem emotionally flat, preoccupied, distant, or cold. Dissociation includes depersonalisation disorder, dissociative amnesia, dissociative fugue, dissociative identity disorder, etc. Exposure to and re-experiencing trauma can cause neurophysiological changes like slowed myelination, abnormalities in synaptic pruning, shrinking of the hippocampus, cognitive and affective impairment. This is significant in brain scan studies done regarding higher order function assessment with children and youth who were in vulnerable environments.\n\nSome traumatized people may feel permanently damaged when trauma symptoms do not go away and they do not believe their situation will improve. This can lead to feelings of despair, transient paranoid ideation, loss of self-esteem, profound emptiness, suicidality, and frequently depression. If important aspects of the person's self and world understanding have been violated, the person may call their own identity into question. Often despite their best efforts, traumatized parents may have difficulty assisting their child with emotion regulation, attribution of meaning, and containment of post-traumatic fear in the wake of the child's traumatization, leading to adverse consequences for the child. In such instances, seeking counselling in appropriate mental health services is in the best interests of both the child and the parent(s).\n\nTrauma can be caused by man-made, technological disasters and natural disasters, including war, abuse, violence, mechanized accidents (car, train, or plane crashes, etc.) or medical emergencies.\n\nResponses to psychological trauma:\nResponse to psychological trauma can be varied based on the type of trauma, as well as socio demographic and background factors.\nThere are several behavioral responses common towards stressors including the proactive, reactive, and passive responses. Proactive responses include attempts to address and correct a stressor before it has a noticeable effect on lifestyle. Reactive responses occur after the stress and possible trauma has occurred and are aimed more at correcting or minimizing the damage of a stressful event. A passive response is often characterized by an emotional numbness or ignorance of a stressor.\n\nThose who are able to be proactive can often overcome stressors and are more likely to be able to cope well with unexpected situations. On the other hand, those who are more reactive will often experience more noticeable effects from an unexpected stressor. In the case of those who are passive, victims of a stressful event are more likely to suffer from long-term traumatic effects and often enact no intentional coping actions. These observations may suggest that the level of trauma associated with a victim is related to such independent coping abilities.\n\nThere is also a distinction between trauma induced by recent situations and long-term trauma which may have been buried in the unconscious from past situations such as childhood abuse. Trauma is sometimes overcome through healing; in some cases this can be achieved by recreating or revisiting the origin of the trauma under more psychologically safe circumstances, such as with a therapist.\n\nFrench neurologist Jean-Martin Charcot argued in the 1890s that psychological trauma was the origin of all instances of the mental illness known as hysteria. Charcot's \"traumatic hysteria\" often manifested as a paralysis that followed a physical trauma, typically years later after what Charcot described as a period of \"incubation\".\nSigmund Freud, Charcot's student and the father of psychoanalysis, examined the concept of psychological trauma throughout his career. Jean Laplanche has given a general description of Freud's understanding of trauma, which varied significantly over the course of Freud's career: \"An event in the subject's life, defined by its intensity, by the subject's incapacity to respond adequately to it and by the upheaval and long-lasting effects that it brings about in the psychical organization\".\n\nThe French psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan claimed that what he called \"The Real\" had a traumatic quality external to symbolization. As an object of anxiety, Lacan maintained that The Real is \"the essential object which isn't an object any longer, but this something faced with which all words cease and all categories fail, the object of anxiety \"par excellence\"\".\n\nAll psychological traumas originate from stress, a physiological response to an unpleasant stimulus. Long term stress increases the risk of poor mental health and mental disorders, which can be attributed to secretion of glucocorticoids for a long period of time. Such prolonged exposure causes many physiological dysfunctions such as the suppression of the immune system and increase in blood pressure. Not only does it affect the body physiologically, but a morphological change in the hippocampus also takes place. Studies showed that extreme stress early in life can disrupt normal development of hippocampus and impact its functions in adulthood. Studies surely show a correlation between the size of hippocampus and one's susceptibility to stress disorders. In times of war, psychological trauma has been known as shell shock or combat stress reaction. Psychological trauma may cause an acute stress reaction which may lead to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). PTSD emerged as the label for this condition after the Vietnam War in which many veterans returned to their respective countries demoralized, and sometimes, addicted to psychoactive substances. The symptoms of PTSD must persist for at least a month for diagnosis. The main symptoms of PTSD consist of four main categories: trauma (i.e. intense fear), reliving (i.e. flashbacks), avoidance behavior (i.e. emotional numbing), and hypervigilance (i.e. continuous scanning of the environment for danger). Research shows that about 60% of the US population reported as having experienced at least one traumatic symptom in their lives, but only a small proportion actually develops PTSD. There is a correlation between the risk of PTSD and whether or not the act was inflicted deliberately by the offender. Psychological trauma is treated with therapy and, if indicated, psychotropic medications.\n\nThe term \"continuous post traumatic stress disorder\" (CTSD) was introduced into the trauma literature by Gill Straker (1987). It was originally used by South African clinicians to describe the effects of exposure to frequent, high levels of violence usually associated with civil conflict and political repression. The term is also applicable to the effects of exposure to contexts in which gang violence and crime are endemic as well as to the effects of ongoing exposure to life threats in high-risk occupations such as police, fire and emergency services.\n\nAs one of the processes of treatment, confrontation with their sources of trauma plays a crucial role. While debriefing people immediately after a critical incident has not been shown to reduce incidence of PTSD, coming alongside people experiencing trauma in a supportive way has become standard practice.\n\nVicarious trauma affects workers who witnesses their clients' trauma. It is more likely to occur in situations where trauma related work is the norm rather than the exception. Listening with empathy to the clients generates feeling, and seeing oneself in clients' trauma may compound the risk for developing trauma symptoms. Trauma may also result if workers witness situations that happen in the course of their work (e.g. violence in the workplace, reviewing violent video tapes.) Risk increases with exposure and with the absence of help seeking protective factors and pre-preparation of preventive strategies.\n\nAs \"trauma\" adopted a more widely defined scope, traumatology as a field developed a more interdisciplinary approach. This is in part due to the field's diverse professional representation including: psychologists, medical professionals, and lawyers. As a result, findings in this field are adapted for various applications, from individual psychiatric treatments to sociological large-scale trauma management. However, novel fields require novel methodologies. While the field has adopted a number of diverse methodological approaches, many pose their own limitations in practical application.\n\nThe experience and outcomes of psychological trauma can be assessed in a number of ways. Within the context of a clinical interview, the risk of imminent danger to the self or others is important to address but is not the focus of assessment. In most cases, it will not be necessary to involve contacting emergency services (e.g., medical, psychiatric, law enforcement) to ensure the individuals safety; members of the individual's social support network are much more critical.\n\nUnderstanding and accepting the psychological state an individual is in is paramount. There are many misconceptions of what it means for a traumatized individual to be in psychological crisis. These are times when an individual is in inordinate amounts of pain and incapable of self-comfort. If treated humanely and respectfully the individual is less likely to resort to self harm. In these situations it is best to provide a supportive, caring environment and to communicate to the individual that no matter the circumstance, the individual will be taken seriously rather than being treated as delusional. It is vital for the assessor to understand that what is going on in the traumatized person's head is valid and real. If deemed appropriate, the assessing clinician may proceed by inquiring about both the traumatic event and the outcomes experienced (e.g., post-traumatic symptoms, dissociation, substance abuse, somatic symptoms, psychotic reactions). Such inquiry occurs within the context of established rapport and is completed in an empathic, sensitive, and supportive manner. The clinician may also inquire about possible relational disturbance, such as alertness to interpersonal danger, abandonment issues, and the need for self-protection via interpersonal control. Through discussion of interpersonal relationships, the clinician is better able to assess the individual's ability to enter and sustain a clinical relationship.\n\nDuring assessment, individuals may exhibit activation responses in which reminders of the traumatic event trigger sudden feelings (e.g., distress, anxiety, anger), memories, or thoughts relating to the event. Because individuals may not yet be capable of managing this distress, it is necessary to determine how the event can be discussed in such a way that will not \"retraumatize\" the individual. It is also important to take note of such responses, as these responses may aid the clinician in determining the intensity and severity of possible post traumatic stress as well as the ease with which responses are triggered. Further, it is important to note the presence of possible avoidance responses. Avoidance responses may involve the absence of expected activation or emotional reactivity as well as the use of avoidance mechanisms (e.g., substance use, effortful avoidance of cues associated with the event, dissociation).\n\nIn addition to monitoring activation and avoidance responses, clinicians carefully observe the individual's strengths or difficulties with affect regulation (i.e., affect tolerance and affect modulation). Such difficulties may be evidenced by mood swings, brief yet intense depressive episodes, or self-mutilation. The information gathered through observation of affect regulation will guide the clinician's decisions regarding the individual's readiness to partake in various therapeutic activities.\n\nThough assessment of psychological trauma may be conducted in an unstructured manner, assessment may also involve the use of a structured interview. Such interviews might include the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS; Blake et al., 1995), Acute Stress Disorder Interview (ASDI; Bryant, Harvey, Dang, & Sackville, 1998), Structured Interview for Disorders of Extreme Stress (SIDES; Pelcovitz et al., 1997), Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Dissociative Disorders- Revised (SCID-D; Steinberg, 1994), and Brief Interview for post-traumatic Disorders (BIPD; Briere, 1998).\n\nLastly, assessment of psychological trauma might include the use of self-administered psychological tests. Individual scores on such tests are compared to normative data in order to determine how the individual's level of functioning compares to others in a sample representative of the general population. Psychological testing might include the use of generic tests (e.g., MMPI-2, MCMI-III, SCL-90-R) to assess non-trauma-specific symptoms as well as difficulties related to personality. In addition, psychological testing might include the use of trauma-specific tests to assess post-traumatic outcomes. Such tests might include the post-traumatic Stress Diagnostic Scale (PDS; Foa, 1995), Davidson Trauma Scale (DTS: Davidson et al., 1997), Detailed Assessment of post-traumatic Stress (DAPS; Briere, 2001), Trauma Symptom Inventory (TSI: Briere, 1995), Trauma Symptom Checklist for Children (TSCC; Briere, 1996), Traumatic Life Events Questionnaire (TLEQ: Kubany et al., 2000), and Trauma-related Guilt Inventory (TRGI: Kubany et al., 1996).\n\nChildren are assessed through activities and therapeutic relationship, some of the activities are play genogram, sand worlds, coloring feelings, Self and Kinetic family drawing, symbol work, dramatic-puppet play, story telling, Briere's TSCC, etc.\n\nA number of psychotherapy approaches have been designed with the treatment of trauma in mind—EMDR, progressive counting (PC), somatic experiencing, biofeedback, Internal Family Systems Therapy, and sensorimotor psychotherapy.\n\nThere is a large body of empirical support for the use of cognitive behavioral therapy for the treatment of trauma-related symptoms, including post-traumatic stress disorder. Institute of Medicine guidelines identify cognitive behavioral therapies as the most effective treatments for PTSD. Two of these cognitive behavioral therapies, prolonged exposure and cognitive processing therapy, are being disseminated nationally by the Department of Veterans Affairs for the treatment of PTSD. Seeking Safety is another type of cognitive behavioral therapy that focuses on learning safe coping skills for co-occurring PTSD and substance use problems. While some sources highlight Seeking Safety as effective with strong research support, others have suggested that it did not lead to improvements beyond usual treatment. Recent studies show that a combination of treatments involving dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), often used for borderline personality disorder, and exposure therapy is highly effective in treating psychological trauma. If, however, psychological trauma has caused dissociative disorders or complex PTSD, the trauma model approach (also known as phase-oriented treatment of structural dissociation) has been proven to work better than simple cognitive approach. Studies funded by pharmaceuticals have also shown that medications such as the new anti-depressants are effective when used in combination with other psychological approaches.\n\nTrauma therapy allows processing trauma-related memories and allows growth towards more adaptive psychological functioning. It helps to develop positive coping instead of negative coping and allows the individual to integrate upsetting-distressing material (thoughts, feelings and memories) and to resolve these internally. It also aids in growth of personal skills like resilience, ego regulation, empathy, etc.\n\nProcesses involved in trauma therapy are:\n\n\nA number of complementary approaches to trauma treatment have been implicated as well, including yoga and meditation. Trauma-sensitive yoga has been specifically developed for the purposes of use with traumatized individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34949051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34949051", "title": "SEMMA", "text": "SEMMA\n\nSEMMA is an acronym that stands for \"Sample\", \"Explore\", \"Modify\", \"Model\", and \"Assess\". It is a list of sequential steps developed by SAS Institute, one of the largest producers of statistics and business intelligence software. It guides the implementation of data mining applications. Although SEMMA is often considered to be a general data mining methodology, SAS claims that it is \"rather a logical organization of the functional tool set of\" one of their products, SAS Enterprise Miner, \"for carrying out the core tasks of data mining\".\n\nIn the expanding field of data mining, there has been a call for a standard methodology or a simply list of best practices for the diversified and iterative process of data mining that users can apply to their data mining projects regardless of industry. While the Cross Industry Standard Process for Data Mining or CRISP-DM, founded by the European Strategic Program on Research in Information Technology initiative, aimed to create a neutral methodology, SAS also offered a pattern to follow in its data mining tools.\n\nThe phases of SEMMA and related tasks are the following:\n\nSEMMA mainly focuses on the modeling tasks of data mining projects, leaving the business aspects out (unlike, e.g., CRISP-DM and its Business Understanding phase). Additionally, SEMMA is designed to help the users of the SAS Enterprise Miner software. Therefore, applying it outside Enterprise Miner can be ambiguous.\n\n"}
{"id": "23946986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23946986", "title": "Shimon Bejarano", "text": "Shimon Bejarano\n\nShimon Bejarano (, 28 September 1910 – 17 October 1971) was an Israeli industrialist and politician who served as a member of the Knesset for the General Zionists between 1951 and 1959.\n\nBorn in Plovdiv in Bulgaria, Bejarano was educated at the Fraunfeld gymnasium in Switzerland before studying economics at the University of Milan. He made aliyah to Mandatory Palestine in 1936. Together with his three brothers he established the Bejarno Bros cigarette factory and Assis Citrus juices and canned fruit plant. A member of Bank Leumi's Board of directors, he was also a member of the Advisory Board of the Bank of Israel.\n\nBejarano was a member of the General Zionists and was elected to the Knesset after being placed eighth on the party's list for the 1951 elections. He was re-elected in 1955, but did not stand for re-election in the 1959 elections following the early death of his brothers Joseph and Moshe.\n\nHe died in 1971 at the age of 61.\n"}
{"id": "34816607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34816607", "title": "Somchai Khunpluem", "text": "Somchai Khunpluem\n\nSomchai Khunpluem, alternatively spelled \"Kunplome\" (), born 30 September 1937 in Chonburi, Thailand is a Thai politician, businessman and organized crime boss. He is also known under his nickname \"Kamnan Poh\" (, \"subdistrict headman Poh\"). He is highly influential in his home province of Chonburi and the whole eastern region and has therefore been dubbed \"godfather of Chonburi\" or \"godfather of the east\" by Thai media. Somchai was long-term mayor of Saen Suk, Mueang Chonburi District.\n\nSomchai was born as the son of a village headman, the second of eight siblings. He dropped out of school after grade four and started working as a teenager. He began as a restaurant bus boy before starting his own bus service. After some time as a monk and as a soldier, he became the partner of a French businessman active in the fishing industry in 1963. He married Satil Sancharoen, daughter of a fish trader. Later he expanded to the building sector, establishing his company \"Bang Saen Maha Nakhon\". In 1968, he became headman (\"kamnan\") of Saen Suk sub-district. He opened a liquor distributorship, and later broadened his economic empire to several other industries. Most profitable were his activities in the construction and real estate sectors. He engaged in illegal activities like smuggling strategic goods during the Vietnam war and the Cambodian Civil War. The national government started to develop the eastern seaboard as an industrial region in the 1980s. Somchai became a key intermediary between the central government and multinational and local investors. This spurred the rise of his economic and political influence which he, in turn, used to provide for a further boost of the urban and industrial development of his home province. In 1989, Saen Suk (which includes the much frequented beach resort of Bang Saen) received the status of a municipality and Somchai, as the only candidate, became its first mayor. After the Thai Nation Party, which Somchai supported, won the national election in 1995 and its leader Banharn Silpa-archa became prime minister, he was often rewarded with government contracts. The combined assets of the Khunpluem and Sancharoen families were estimated on four billion baht in 2004.\n\nSomchai enlisted as a canvasser for the Social Action Party in the 1970s. He later supported the Justice Unity Party (1992), the National Development Party (1992-95) and the Thai Nation Party (1995-2001). Without holding a high office, he was considered one of the most influential political figures of Thailand until 2004. Whichever party he supported usually won most of the electoral districts of Chonburi Province. By financially supporting parties and candidates, he controlled up to 20 seats in the Thai House of Representatives.\n\nSomchai, together with local councillor Passakorn Homhuan, was charged with the premeditated murder of Prayoon Sithichote, headman of a neighbouring sub-district, through hired killers in 2003. They were sentenced to 25 years in jail by the criminal court in June 2004. Pending appeal proceedings, Somchai was set free on terms of a ten million baht bail. The appeals court confirmed the verdict in October 2005. He was also convicted in a corruption case in connection with the construction of a garbage dump, for which he was sentenced to five years and four months in jail. Somchai, however, was absent from the trials, jumped bail and lived in hiding for several years. He was arrested on 30 January 2013 on his way to a hospital in Bangkok's Pattanakarn area.\n\nSomchai is the father of Sontaya Kunplome, leader of the Phalang Chon Party, president of Pattaya United F.C., minister of culture under Yingluck Shinawatra and former tourism minister under Thaksin Shinawatra, Wittaya Khunpluem, president of Chonburi F.C., chairman of the provincial administrative council of Chonburi and Member of Parliament representing Chonburi, and Ittipol Khunplome, mayor of Pattaya.\n"}
{"id": "49043394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49043394", "title": "Stefan Günther Tweraser", "text": "Stefan Günther Tweraser\n\nStefan Günther Tweraser (Born 18 November 1969) is an Austrian business executive, consultant, and entrepreneur. Tweraser is known primarily for his leadership roles in the European technology and telecommunications industries. In December 2015 he was named as CEO of the Berlin-based hospitality analytics firm SnapShot GmbH.\n\nTweraser grew up in Vienna, Austria, along with his three siblings. He attended the Higher Technical Institute HTL in Vienna for Telecommunications Engineering and later studied Business Administration at the Vienna University of Economics and Business, where he was also employed from 1994 to 1997 as an assistant, and then completed his doctorate in 1997. Up until April 1998, Tweraser was employed as a director of studies for Marketing and Sales at the Vienna University of Applied Sciences. In early 2015, he was in a course of advanced study in psychotherapy at the Sigmund Freud University Vienna.\n\nIn 1998, Tweraser was appointed as a management consultant by McKinsey & Company, and was made a partner in January 2003. Later in 2003, he was named Divisional Head of Retail Marketing at Telekom Austria AG, where he was responsible for product management, market communication and the company's Internet activities until his departure in 2007. During a reorganisation of the Landline division, Tweraser was responsible for sensitive personnel and budget cuts. The Telekom executive was named \"Marketer of the Year 2005″ by the Austrian chapter of the International Advertising Association (IAA). In December 2006, he was elected president of the Austrian Volleyball Federation at the request of Telekom, which at that time was the main sponsor of the federation. He stepped down from the role in December 2007.\n\nAfter leaving Telekom Austria, Tweraser moved to Google Deutschland, where he succeeded Christian Baudis as Country Director Sales as of May 2008. Between 2007 and 2008, he was also briefly employed as the managing director of Omnimedia Werbegesellschaft, a holding of Telekom. During this time he also took over as head of Google Austria and Switzerland, when Karl Pall moved to assume his role as head of Google Canada. The newly appointed Google executive was instrumental for the search giant's marketing efforts, especially to the underdeveloped small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) in Austria and Switzerland.\n\nTweraser was in the thick of the 2012 Google Internet campaign to garner public support against a proposed law that would force the search engine giant to pay publishers for content offered on the website. The draft law, which was dubbed the \"Lex Google\", was intended to force search engines to pay a fee to publishers when Internet users click through to their content. German lawmakers condemned Google's campaign against the proposed legislation. Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger, the author of the proposed legislation, said she was \"astonished that Google was trying to monopolize opinion-making.\" In an interview with Phys.org in November 2012 Tweraser was quoted as commenting: \"The majority of citizens have never heard of this draft law even though it could affect all Internet users in Germany.\" The Google executive went on to describe \"restrictions to content\" and to users' access, along with the higher costs that would be incurred. He also participated in a number of high level meetings and summits where the future of search was the focus.\n\nFollowing an announcement of the arraignment of Tweraser on charges of breach of trust in the so-called Telekom scandal, he stepped down from his position at Google in January 2013, before finally leaving the search-engine and advertising group at the end of February of that year.\n\nIn December 2015, the Austrian hospitality analytics company, SnapShot GmbH appointed Tweraser chief executive officer. Tweraser joined a team of hotel innovators, investors, marketing and entrepreneurial executives from across Europe.\n\nOn 4 December 2012, the department of public prosecution in Vienna arraigned Tweraser and three other persons on charges of breach of trust. The former Telekom executive was accused of having illegally obtained over half a million euros from Telekom Austria with the help of the advertising agency Euro-RSCG.\n\nBefore Tweraser joined Google Deutschland, he reached an agreement in the context of the termination of his contract in 2007 with the Telekom manager Gernot Schieszler under which he would be paid an additional settlement on dismissal in the amount of two annual salaries. The agency, which was managed at that time by the advertisers Gustav Eder-Neuhauser and Albert Essenther, managed the 2.5 million euro advertising budget of Telekom. According to the arraignment, the agency bosses gave their consent to \"process this 'informal settlement on dismissal' via Euro-RSCG\". For this purpose, Telekom was sent a pro-forma invoice in July 2007 for the sum of 585,600 euros for the \"Strategic design of the sponsorship appearance in the context of Euro 2008\". Following the official departure of Tweraser from Telekom, he submitted three pro-forma invoices on behalf of his company Gekko Consulting GmbH. Although all the defendants confirmed the cash flows, they each refuted any criminally liable responsibility.\n\nThe trial (nicknamed) Telekom II began on 25 February 2014 in the Vienna Regional Court for Criminal Matters. At the adjourning of this initial trial Telekom Austria announced that Tweraser would begin to pay back the adjudicated amount in installments. Then in February 2015, Judge Michael Tolstiuk ruled that the Corpus delicti regarding breach of trust was not sufficient and that Telekom had not suffered any damage due to the payments to Tweraser. The judgement acquitted all the defendants of any wrongdoing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28034413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28034413", "title": "Susan Alice Buffett", "text": "Susan Alice Buffett\n\nSusan Alice Buffett (born July 30, 1953) is the daughter of Warren Buffett. She is also an American philanthropist, her charitable work has focused largely on the Sherwood Foundation, formerly known as the Susan A. Buffett Foundation, an organization in Omaha that provides grants in public education, human services and social justice in the interest of promoting the welfare of children from lower-income families. She is also on the boards of the Buffett Foundation, The Buffett Early Childhood Institute, and Girls, Inc. According to a 2010 interview with her brother Howard Graham Buffett, Buffett's philanthropic focus has consistently remained on children, education and family issues, but she has also committed to other causes, including Debt, AIDS, Trade, Africa, a non-governmental organization dedicated to various improvements in Africa.\n\nBorn in Omaha in 1953, Buffett, commonly called Susie, is the eldest child of Warren Buffett.\n\nShe studied at the University of Nebraska - Lincoln, where she was majoring in home economics and at the University of California, Irvine, where she was majoring in social ecology.\n\nHer parents separated in the late 1970s (though they remained married until her mother's death in 2004). Despite his wealth, Warren Buffett encouraged his children to be financially independent; Susan Buffett recalled in 2006 that in spite of her father's generosity, he once refused her a personal loan of $41,000 to expand her kitchen. Her foundation, however, was funded primarily by $1 billion in shares from her father, Warren Buffett.\n\nIn 1983, Buffett wed Allen Greenberg, a lawyer for Public Citizen, whom she had met in Washington. The couple divorced in 1995.\n\nIn 1987, Greenberg became the first director of the Buffett Foundation, a title he retained after the couple's divorce.\n"}
{"id": "2084062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2084062", "title": "Walter A. Haas", "text": "Walter A. Haas\n\nWalter A. Haas Sr. (May 11, 1889 – December 7, 1979), son of the founder of Hellman-Haas Grocery (which became Smart & Final), was a former president and chairman of Levi Strauss & Co. Haas was credited with saving the once struggling company.\n\nHaas was born to a Jewish family, one of four children of Abraham Haas and Fanny Koshland. His father was an immigrant from Bavaria who founded the Hellman, Hass and Company which eventually became the Smart & Final grocery store chain. His mother was the daughter of Simon Koshland, one of the most successful wool merchants in San Francisco. His siblings were Charles, Ruth (1891), and Eleanor (1900). In 1910, Haas graduated with a BS degree from the University of California, Berkeley College of Commerce. Haas served in the U.S. Army Field Artillery during World War I.\n\nUpon his return to the United States in 1919, he worked at the Levi Strauss & Company, then a small drygoods wholesaler and maker of work clothing, owned by the family of his wife. In 1928, he became president and served in that position until 1955; thereafter, he served as chairman until 1970 and remained active in company affairs until his death in 1979. Haas' tenure and dedication at Levi Strauss – along with that of his business partner and brother-in-law Daniel E. Koshland Sr., father of physicist Daniel E. Koshland Jr. – is widely credited with saving the company leading it through the Great Depression, racial integration at its factories, the global popularization of the Levi brand, and the creation of the Levi Strauss Foundation.\n\nA Republican, he was an alternate delegate to the 1952 Republican National Convention. He was Jewish, and served as president of the San Francisco Jewish Welfare Federation.\n\nIn 1914, Haas married Elise Stern, daughter of Sigmund Stern, the son of David Stern and the nephew of Levi Strauss (Strauss had died unmarried and without children and deeded his company to his four nephews). Haas had three children: Rhoda Haas Goldman, Peter E. Haas, and Walter A. Haas Jr. In 1989, the University of California, Berkeley Regents voted to rename the business school the Haas School of Business in his honor, after a large gift from the Haas family.\n\n"}
{"id": "247136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247136", "title": "Wisse Dekker", "text": "Wisse Dekker\n\nWisse Dekker (26 April 1924 – 25 August 2012) was a Dutch businessman. He was the CEO of Philips from 1982 to 1986. From 1988 until 1992 he was chairman of the European Round Table of Industrialists.\n"}
