{"id": "4190572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4190572", "title": "2006 Micronesian Games", "text": "2006 Micronesian Games\n\nThe 6th Micronesian Games were held on Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands from June 23-July 2, 2006. The Games featured competition in 15 different sports/disciplines.\n\nIn February 2006, the Games were canceled by the Governor of the Northern Marianas, Benigno R. Fitial, due to a financial crisis and a lack of planning. However, after pleas from athletes, coaches and parents, and the creation of a financial plan, the Games were allowed to go on.\n\nOn June 23, 2006, the games were officially opened by the Governor of the Northern Mariana Islands, Benigno R. Fitial. \nThe torch lighter was swimmer Xenavee Torwal. She has won 22 gold medals in past Micronesian Games as Xenavee Pangelinan.\n\n\n\n\nSlow Pitch Softball was withdrawn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34534471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34534471", "title": "Altitude FC", "text": "Altitude FC\n\nAltitude Football Club (\"formerly Placencia Assassins Football Club\") are a football team based in Independence, previously Placencia, Belize. They currently play in the Premier League of Belize. In 2011 they were crowned as Super League of Belize champions.\n\nTheir home stadium is Michael Ashcroft Stadium.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17178757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17178757", "title": "Aruba national baseball team", "text": "Aruba national baseball team\n\nThe Aruba national baseball team is the national baseball team of Aruba.\n\n"}
{"id": "27657703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27657703", "title": "Bahrain at the Paralympics", "text": "Bahrain at the Paralympics\n\nBahrain made its Paralympic Games début the same year as its Olympic début, at the 1984 Summer Paralympics in Stoke Mandeville and New York City, sending a delegation to compete in athletics. The country has participated in every subsequent edition of the Summer Paralympics, but has never taken part in the Winter Paralympics.\n\nBahraini competitors have won a total of ten Paralympic medals, all of them in athletics: two gold, three silver and five bronze. The country's first inaugural participation in the Games in 1984 yielded two bronze medals: K. Alqatam finished third in the men's javelin (category 5), and Adel Sultan finished third in the men's 100m sprint (category 5). Bahrain won its first gold medal four years later, with Khaled Al Saqer winning the men's slalom in the 1A category. His compatriot Ali Alhasan took bronze in the same event, while Adel Sultan took a silver medal in the 100m sprint (categories 5-6). In 1992, Al Saqer won the country's only medal, a bronze in the discus (THW2-3). There was no medals in 1996, but in 2000 Ayman Al Heddi and Ahmed Kamal obtained a silver and a bronze, respectively, in the discus and the shot put. Ahmed Meshaima's silver in the shot put (F37) in 2004.\n\nThree women have represented Bahrain at the Paralympics: M. Alkhinna and S. Mohamed in sprinting and slalom, Fatema Nedham was the first woman to win a gold medal for Bahrain in the shot put in 2016. Bahraini women's participation in the Paralympics thus predates their participation in the Olympics, which began in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "5408362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5408362", "title": "Bruno-Plache-Stadion", "text": "Bruno-Plache-Stadion\n\nBruno-Plache-Stadion is a multi-use stadium in Leipzig, Germany. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Lokomotive Leipzig. Fans only call it \"das Bruno\" (the Bruno). The stadium has a capacity of 15,600 people, but it is only accredited for 7,000 people at the moment. \n\nIt was built in 1922. When it was opened, it was the largest stadium owned by a club in Germany, with a proposed capacity of over 40,000 people. After the Second World War, the stadium was home to SC Rotation Leipzig, until 1990. In 1992, the German Football Association prohibited games to be held for the 2. Fußball-Bundesliga due to security requirements not being met. Since 2004, football matches are being held again at the stadium, which is now the home ground of 1. FC Lokomotive Leipzig. The city of Leipzig has full ownership of the stadium.\n\nOn June 13, 1999 Bruce Springsteen played a concert at the venue during his Reunion Tour. \n\n"}
{"id": "7810339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7810339", "title": "Burma at the 1968 Summer Olympics", "text": "Burma at the 1968 Summer Olympics\n\nBurma competed at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, Mexico. They fielded four competitors, all men.\n\n"}
{"id": "2006109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006109", "title": "C. O. Brown Stadium", "text": "C. O. Brown Stadium\n\nC.O. Brown Stadium is a baseball stadium in the United States located in Battle Creek, Michigan. The stadium was built in 1990 and is a part of Bailey Park, a longtime home of amateur baseball. C.O. Brown Stadium is the former home of the Michigan Battle Cats, Battle Creek Yankees and the Southwest Michigan Devil Rays of the Class A Midwest League. The stadium has a seating capacity of 2,193. C.O. Brown Stadium is the current home of the Northwoods League's Battle Creek Bombers.\n\nThe stadium was named for Cooper Othniel Brown, a baseball entrepreneur who helped make Battle Creek a hub for amateur tournament baseball in the 1930s and served as the first president of the American Amateur Baseball Congress.\n\nOn August 31, 2008, shortly after accepting the democratic nomination, Barack Obama and Joe Biden held a rally at C.O. Brown Stadium drawing an estimated 15,000 people.\n\nIt has also hosted postseason baseball tournaments. Until 2013, the MHSAA used the stadium to host the Michigan Baseball State Championships for all four divisions where they have been moved to Drayton McLane Baseball Stadium at John H. Kobs Field in 2014. The stadium also hosted the 1993 and 1994 Big Ten Conference Baseball Tournaments.\n\nIn 2016 the team announced major ballpark renovations that will drop the seating capacity of C.O. Brown Stadium from more than 4,000 to 2,300. The marquee renovation includes the introduction of an all-new “Home Plate Club,” which will feature 10 granite half-moon tables situated directly behind home plate. Each table will also feature four stadium chairs sourced from Camden Yards. Each table will have access to its own all-inclusive upscale menu, including both beer and wine pairings. The team has already had a number of these reserved and is taking deposits for full- and half-season plans immediately. All 10 tables are expected to be sold out well before Opening Day.\n\n“The Champions Club,” which was sold out for most of 2015, now shifts down the first and third base lines. These areas will now feature additional legroom and a food and beverage railing in front of each seat. This renovation allows for a more comfortable fan experience and gives the Bombers 98 Champions Club seats for 2016.\n\nThe bleacher area will also look quite different this summer. The team will offer reserved bleacher seats instead of general admission seating, which will guarantee ticket holders a designated seat at each game. The first-base side will now have permanent vinyl grandstand covers over the seats. These covers will eliminate seating in an area where historically the sun has tormented fans.\n\nThe Miller Lite Party Deck will also be receiving a facelift, courtesy of Heights Construction. While some general upkeep and maintenance will be performed, the team plans to stain the deck area while repurposing seats from the original C.O. Brown Stadium bowl grandstand. Furthermore, the team has now limited the Miller Lite Party Deck to approximately 375 tickets on any given night and will allow groups to reserve their own private sections.\n\nIn November 2007, Bailey Park and C.O. Brown Stadium was awarded the 2007 USSSA United States Specialty Sports Association Complex of the Year Award presented at the USSSA National Meeting in Daytona Beach, Florida.\n\nPresented annually to one facility in the country, there are a number of requirements that a complex must meet to qualify. Requirements for the award include: full participation with USSSA, a proven history of hosting and running quality events, a high number of participating teams, outstanding facilities, and top notch ground crews.\n\n"}
{"id": "11284804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11284804", "title": "Cameroon Davis Cup team", "text": "Cameroon Davis Cup team\n\nThe Cameroon Davis Cup team represents Cameroon in Davis Cup tennis competition and are governed by the Fédération Camerounaise de Tennis. \nCameroon currently compete in the Europe/Africa Zone of Group IV. Their best result was reaching the African Group II semifinals in 1989.\n\nCameroon competed in its first Davis Cup in 1988. They have not competed since 2000, but are entered in the 2009 competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21083551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21083551", "title": "Cavaly AS", "text": "Cavaly AS\n\nCavaly Association Sportive (; commonly referred to as Cavaly AS or simply Cavaly) is a professional football club based in Léogâne, Haiti, that currently plays in the Ligue Haïtienne.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "50485043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50485043", "title": "Chihana Hara", "text": "Chihana Hara\n\nShe participated at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. She also competed at world championships, including at the 2007 and 2009 World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "30706247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30706247", "title": "Clássico das Emoções", "text": "Clássico das Emoções\n\nClássico das Emoções in Portuguese or The Derby of the Emotions in English, it is the regional name used in Pernambuco for the football game between Clube Náutico Capibaribe and Santa Cruz Futebol Clube. This derby was first played on May 26, 1918.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3455997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3455997", "title": "Cricket helmet", "text": "Cricket helmet\n\nIn the sport of cricket, batsmen often wear a helmet to protect themselves from injury or concussion by the cricket ball, which is very hard and can be bowled to them at speeds over . Cricket helmets cover the whole of the head, and have a grill or perspex visor to protect the face. Often constructed with a carbon fibre and Kevlar shell, the helmet is designed to deflect cricket balls as well as shield the wearer from impact, and its liner includes an inflatable element to tightly fit the helmet to its wearer's head.\n\nFielders who are positioned very close to the batsman (e.g. silly point or short leg) often wear a helmet and shin guards. Nowadays it is almost unheard of for a professional cricketer to face a fast bowler without a helmet. Some batsmen prefer not to wear a helmet when facing spin bowling.\n\nThere are recorded instances of cricketers using scarves and padded caps to protect themselves throughout cricket history. Patsy Hendren was one of the first to use a self designed protective hat in the 1930s. Helmets were not in common use until the 1970s. The first helmets were seen in World Series Cricket, with Dennis Amiss being the first player to consistently wear a helmet.\n\nMike Brearley was another player who wore his own design. Tony Greig was of the opinion that they would make cricket more dangerous by encouraging bowlers to bounce the batsmen. Graham Yallop of Australia was the first to wear a protective helmet to a test match on 17 March 1978, when playing against West Indies at Bridgetown. Later Dennis Amiss of England popularised it in Test cricket. \nHelmets began to be widely worn thereafter.\n\nThe last batsmen at the highest (Test match) level to never wear a helmet throughout his career was Viv Richards, who retired from the international game in 1991.\n\nModern day cricket helmets are made in compliance recent safety standards of ICC. Materials used for making cricket helmets are impact resistance materials like ABS Plastic, Fibreglass, carbon fibre, titanium, steel and high density foam etc. Main parts of a cricket helmets are grill (made with steel or carbon fibre), chin strap, inner foam material, outer impact resistant shell etc. Sometimes, a batsman can be seriously injured or killed by a fast ball while not wearing a helmet, but some fatalities have occurred even when the batsman was wearing a helmet, like the fate of Phillip Huges.\n\nAs of 2017, the International Cricket Council has refused to pass laws requiring the wearing of helmets, rather leaving the decision to each test nation to decide for themselves. However, although it is not obligatory for a batsman to wear a helmet, should he chose to do so, the helmet must comply with specific safety requirements, a rule all the test playing nations have agreed to.\n\nIn first class cricket, as of 2016, the England and Wales Cricket Board requires all batsmen, wicketkeepers and fielders closer than 8 yards from the wicket to wear helmets. This is mandatory even when facing medium-pace and spin bowling. \nNew Zealand Cricket and the Board of Control for Cricket in India do not require batsmen to wear helmets.\n\nMany players refused to wear helmets, either believing that they obstructed their vision when batting, or, just as in the similar debate in ice hockey, feeling helmets were unmanly, a view held by many spectators. Englishman Dennis Amiss was the first player to wear a helmet in the modern game, during a World Series Cricket match, for which both the crowd and other players mocked him. Australian captain Graham Yallop was booed when he wore one in a 1978 match against the West Indies (the first time a helmet was worn in a test match) and West Indian captain Viv Richards viewed such protection as cowardly. India captain Sunil Gavaskar believed that helmets slowed down a batsman's reflexes and refused to wear one. \nIn more recent times, many batsmen have felt that modern helmet designs have become increasingly obstructive. Most notably, England captain Alastair Cook for a time refused to wear a new helmet complying to ICC safety regulations since he felt it was distracting and uncomfortable. His England teammate Jonathan Trott also refused for similar reasons, and teammate Nick Compton (a close friend of Phillip Hughes) felt that the new regulations were overzealous.\n\n"}
{"id": "6838880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6838880", "title": "Dan Law Field at Rip Griffin Park", "text": "Dan Law Field at Rip Griffin Park\n\nDan Law Field at Rip Griffin Park, nicknamed \"The Law\", is the home stadium of the Texas Tech Red Raiders baseball team in Lubbock, Texas. It is located on the Texas Tech University campus, adjacent to Jones AT&T Stadium and Fuller Track. Dan Law Field was rated as one of the top three places to watch a college baseball game by \"Sports Illustrated On Campus\".\n\nFrom 1988 through 2011, the ballpark was named Dan Law Field after former Texas Tech baseball player Dan Law who was instrumental in the stadium's renovation. Law played for the Red Raider football team from 1955–56 and baseball from 1956-57. Since the 2012 season, the ballpark has been known as Dan Law Field at Rip Griffin Park. An anonymous donor to the 2012 renovation requested the field be named after Rip Griffin, a long-time supporter of Red Raider baseball and Texas Tech athletics. The ballpark has a permanent seating capacity of 4,368. Renovated in 1996 and 2001, the stadium underwent another upgrade in 2007 and its latest in 2012.\n\nIn 2015, the Red Raiders ranked 13th among Division I baseball programs in attendance, averaging 3,665 per home game. A record attendance of 4,898 was set on June 12, 2016 when Texas Tech hosted East Carolina University in the Lubbock Super Regional matchup.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19133074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19133074", "title": "Dominican Summer League Dodgers", "text": "Dominican Summer League Dodgers\n\nThe Dominican Summer Dodgers are a minor league baseball team in the Dominican Summer League. The team plays in the Boca Chica Northwest division and is affiliated with the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nThey have operated since 1989. Occasionally the Dodgers have fielded two teams in the DSL. In 1990, they had the DSL Cibao Dodgers and the DSL San Pedro de Macoris Dodgers and from 1992–2004 they had the DSL Dodgers 1 and DSL Dodgers 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "7434132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7434132", "title": "Estadio Francisco Montaner", "text": "Estadio Francisco Montaner\n\nThe Estadio Francisco (\"Paquito\") Montaner (English: \"Francisco (\"Paquito\") Montaner Stadium\") is a multi-use stadium in Ponce, Puerto Rico. It is home to the Leones de Ponce team of the Puerto Rico Baseball League (LBPPR) and FC Leones of the Puerto Rico Soccer League (PRSL). The stadium has a capacity of 16,000 seats. Construction of the stadium began in 1947 and it opened on October 15, 1949. Montaner has the distinction of being the first stadium in Puerto Rico that installed an artificial surface field. The stadium lies next to the Juan Pachín Vicéns Auditorium, where the Ponce Lions (basketball) hold their games. The Stadium was named to honor Francisco \"Paquito\" Montaner, one of the greatest Puerto Rican pitchers of all times.\n\nWhile baseball had been practiced in the city prior to this, baseball in Ponce started in earnest upon the arrival of the Americans to the island after the Spanish–American War of 1898. The first non-professional baseball leagues played at Campo Atlético Charles H. Terry. However, after the formation of the \"Liga de Béisbol Semiprofesional de Puerto Rico\" (Puerto Rico Semiprofessional Baseball League) in 1938, the sport had mature enough that it became necessary to plan on building a new stadium. This need was further exacerbated on 14 September 1941 when the League became a professional-level league. Construction of the stadium began in 1947 and it opened two years later on October 15, 1949. In addition to baseball, the stadium had other uses. In particular, it was also used for basketball games. These were played on a convertible basketball court that was stowed away when the basket games were over.\n\nThe PRPBL's regular playing season runs from November through January. From February to August, the venue is transformed into a track and field stadium, and also serves as a venue for other activities such as a host of the Mustang Auto Daredevils. It has also been used for intramural competitions and other academic sporting events. The track is completely covered during baseball season and then it is elevated via a hydraulic system for the track and field events. The stadium is also used for winter training by many United States Major Baseball League players.\n\nMontaner has seen a total of 12 championships: four in BSN basketball (1952, 1961, 1964 y 1965), one in Double A (AA) baseball in 1957, six in Professional Baseball (68-69, 69-70, 71-72, 81-82, 03-04 and 08-09), and one in football in 2007.\n\nMontaner has also seen some great events in athletics. The \"Primeros Juegos Ponceños\", the Frankie Colón Memorial, the \"Justas Intercolegiales\" (intercollegiate games), the Central American and Caribbean Games (“Ponce 93”), and the Iberoamerican Games, all took place here. There have also been athletics competitions at the Masters category and, more recently, the famed Ponce Grand Prix.\n\nFor many years Montaner was the venue of the finals of the \"Guantes Dorados de Boxeo Aficionado\" (Amateur Boxing's Golden Gloves), national as well as U.S.-based Professional Wrestling billboards, bull runs, concerts by internationally renowned artists, as well as the site of various major religious conventions. In February 1958, evangelist Billy Graham hosted a religious event at this stadium.\n\nThrough Montaner, Ponce has been able to see giants in the world of sports such as Francisco ‘Pancho’ Coímbre, Felo Guilbe, Tomás ‘Planchardón’ Quiñones, Luis Rodríguez Olmo, ‘Canena’ Márquez, Carlos Bernier, José Guillermo ‘Pantalones’ Santiago, Luis ‘Tite’ Arroyo, Víctor Pellot, Roberto Clemente, Orlando ‘Peruchín’ Cepeda, Willie Mays, Hank Aaron, Frank Robinson, José Rafael ‘Palillo’ Santiago, Steve Carlton, John Boozer, Otoniel Vélez Franceschi, Roberto Alomar, Santos Alomar, Sr., José ‘Cheo’ Cruz, Rickey Henderson, José ‘Pepe’ Mangual, Luis ‘Mambo’ De León, Joey Cora, Juan ‘Igor’ González, José Vidro, Iván Rodríguez, José Molina, Raúl Casanova, Javier López, and Javier Vázquez. Various “No Hit No Run” were played in this stadium, in particular the ones by ‘Pantalones’ Santiago, Hank Behrman, José Luis ‘Witito’ Martínez, and the rare “no hitter”, by Giancarlo Alvarado against the fearful Indios de Mayagüez.\n\nWhen basketball games were also played here (since 1972 they have been played at the Juan Pachín Vicéns Auditorium).\nFans still remember the very first championship of the Leones de Ponce (baseball) in 1952, and the electrifying plays by Tomás ‘Guabina’ Gutiérrez, Antonio ‘Toño’ Morales, “El Barco” Salvador Dijols, Ángel ‘Conejo’ García, César Bocachica, and Joe Hatton, and the maneuvers by the best Puerto Rican basketball player of all times Juan ‘Pachín’ Vicens, in particular, the night when he became the first player to reach the 5,000 points in Puerto Rican basketball.\n\nMontaner also witnessed the speed of Juan \"Papo\" Franceschi, and the techniques of Arnaldo Bristol, Cuban Javier Sotomayor, Reinaldo ‘Pochy’ Oliver, Edgardo Guilbe, Emilio Navarro Jr., Félix Martínez, and Javier Culson.\n"}
{"id": "2153058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2153058", "title": "Estadio Las Flores", "text": "Estadio Las Flores\n\nEstadio Las Flores is a football stadium located in Jalapa, Guatemala. It is home to first division club Deportivo Jalapa (Los Tigres); its capacity is 15,000.\n"}
{"id": "977090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977090", "title": "Exhibition game", "text": "Exhibition game\n\nAn exhibition game (also known as a friendly, a scrimmage, a demonstration, a preseason game, a warmup match, or a preparation match, depending at least in part on the sport) is a sporting event whose prize money and impact on the player's or the team's rankings is either zero or otherwise greatly reduced. In team sports, matches of this type are often used to help coaches and managers select and condition players for the competitive matches of a league season or tournament. If the players usually play in different teams in other leagues, exhibition games offer an opportunity for the players to learn to work with each other. The games can be held between separate teams or between parts of the same team.\n\nAn exhibition game may also be used to settle a challenge, to provide professional entertainment, to promote the sport, to commemorate an anniversary or a famous player, or to raise money for charities. Several sports leagues hold all-star games to showcase their best players against each other, while other exhibitions games may pit participants from two different leagues or countries to unofficially determine who would be the best in the world. International competitions like the Olympic Games may also hold exhibition games as part of a demonstration sport.\n\nIn the early days of football, friendlies were the most common type of match. However, since the development of The Football League in England in 1888, league tournaments became established, in addition to lengthy derby and cup tournaments. By the year 2000, national leagues were established in almost every country throughout the world, as well as local or regional leagues for lower level teams; thus the significance of friendly matches has seriously declined since the 19th century.\n\nSince the introduction of league football, most club sides play a number of friendlies before the start of each season (called pre-season friendlies). Friendly football matches are considered to be non-competitive and are only used to \"warm up\" players for a new season/competitive match. There is generally nothing competitive at stake and some rules may be changed or experimented with (such as unlimited substitutions, which allow teams to play younger, less experienced, players, and no cards). Frequently such games take place between a large club and small clubs that play nearby, such as those between Newcastle United and Gateshead.\n\nAlthough most friendlies are simply one-off matches arranged by the clubs themselves, in which a certain amount is paid by the challenger club to the incumbent club, some teams do compete in short tournaments, such as the Community Shield, Emirates Cup, Teresa Herrera Trophy, International Champions Cup and the Amsterdam Tournament. Although these events may involve sponsorship deals and the awarding of a trophy and may even be broadcast on television, there is little prestige attached to them.\n\nInternational teams also play friendlies, generally in preparation for the qualifying or final stages of major tournaments. This is essential, since national squads generally have much less time together in which to prepare. The biggest difference between friendlies at the club and international levels is that international friendlies mostly take place during club league seasons, not between them. This has on occasion led to disagreement between national associations and clubs as to the availability of players, who could become injured or fatigued in a friendly.\n\nInternational friendlies give team managers the opportunity to experiment with team selection and tactics before the tournament proper, and also allow them to assess the abilities of players they may potentially select for the tournament squad. Players can be booked in international friendlies, and can be suspended from future international matches based on red cards or accumulated yellows in a specified period. Caps and goals scored also count towards a player's career records. In 2004, FIFA ruled that substitutions by a team be limited to six per match in international friendlies in response to criticism that such matches were becoming increasingly farcical with managers making as many as 11 substitutions per match.\n\nMatches that are being played in multinational football tournaments like King's Cup, Kirin Cup, China Cup are mostly considered international friendlies by FIFA.\n\nIn the UK and Ireland, \"exhibition match\" and \"friendly match\" refer to two different types of games. The types described above as friendlies are not termed exhibition matches, while annual all-star matches such as those held in the US Major League Soccer or Japan's Japanese League are called exhibition matches rather than friendly matches. A one-off match for charitable fundraising, usually involving one or two all-star teams, or a match held in honor of a player for contribution to his/her club, may also be described as exhibition matches but they are normally referred to as charity matches and testimonial matches respectively.\n\nA bounce game is generally a non-competitive football match played between two sides usually as part of a training exercise or to give players match practice. Managers may also use bounce games as an opportunity to observe a player in action before offering a contract. Usually these games are played on a training ground rather than in a stadium with no spectators in attendance.\n\nExhibition fights were once common in boxing. Jack Dempsey fought many exhibition bouts after retiring. Joe Louis fought a charity fight on his rematch with Buddy Baer, but this was not considered an exhibition as it was for Louis' world Heavyweight title. Muhammad Ali fought many exhibitions, including one with Lyle Alzado. In more modern times, Mike Tyson, Julio Cesar Chavez Sr. and Jorge Castro have been involved in exhibition fights.\n\nAlthough not fought for profit, amateur bouts (usually) and sparring sessions are not considered to be exhibition fights.\n\nPrior to the 1917–18 NHL season, an exhibition game was played on December 15, between the Montreal Canadiens and the Montreal Wanderers. The game was played as a benefit to aid victims of the Halifax explosion.\n\nUnder the 1995–2004 National Hockey League collective bargaining agreement, teams were limited to nine preseason games. From 1975 to 1991, NHL teams sometimes played exhibition games against teams from the Soviet Union in the Super Series, and in 1978, played against World Hockey Association teams also in preseason training. Like the NFL, the NHL sometimes schedules exhibition games for cities without their own NHL teams, often at a club's minor league affiliate (e.g. Carolina Hurricanes games at Time Warner Cable Arena in Charlotte, North Carolina, home of their AHL affiliate the Charlotte Checkers; Los Angeles Kings games at Citizens Business Bank Arena in Ontario, California, home of their AHL affiliate the Ontario Reign; Montreal Canadiens games at Colisée Pepsi in Quebec City, which has no pro hockey but used to have an NHL team until 1995; Washington Capitals at 1st Mariner Arena in the Baltimore Hockey Classic; various Western Canada teams at Credit Union Centre in Saskatoon, a potential NHL expansion venue). Today, all teams must play six, seven, or eight preseason games. Each preseason game must have at least eight veterans dressed, except during the World Cup of Hockey.\n\nSince the 2000s, some preseason games have been played in Europe against European teams, as part of the NHL Challenge and NHL Premiere series. In addition to the standard preseason, there also exist prospect tournaments such as the Vancouver Canucks' YoungStars tournament and the Detroit Red Wings' training camp, in which NHL teams' younger prospects face off against each other under their parent club's banner.\n\nIn 1992, goaltender Manon Rhéaume played in a preseason game for the Tampa Bay Lightning, becoming the first woman to suit up for an all-male pro sports team in North America.\n\nThe Flying Fathers, a Canadian group of Catholic priests, regularly toured North America playing exhibition hockey games for charity. One of the organization's founders, Les Costello, was a onetime NHL player who was ordained as a priest after retiring from professional hockey. Another prominent exhibition hockey team is the Buffalo Sabres Alumni Hockey Team, which is composed almost entirely of retired NHL players, the majority of whom (as the name suggests) played at least a portion of their career for the Buffalo Sabres.\n\nAmerican college hockey teams occasionally play exhibition games against Canadian college teams as well as against USA or Canadian national teams. (In men's hockey, the senior national teams are selected from NHL and other pro players, and college teams would be overmatched against those teams even if they were allowed to play them. However, the national under-18 teams are made up of amateurs, allowing college squads to play them.)\n\nThe Major League Baseball's preseason is also known as spring training. All MLB teams maintain a spring-training base in Arizona or Florida. The teams in Arizona make up the Cactus League, while the teams in Florida play in the Grapefruit League. Each team plays about 30 preseason games against other MLB teams. They may also play exhibitions against a local college team or a minor-league team from their farm system. Some days feature the team playing two games with two different rosters evenly divided up, which are known as \"split-squad\" games.\n\nSeveral MLB teams used to play regular exhibition games during the year against nearby teams in the other major league, but regular-season interleague play has made such games unnecessary. The two Canadian MLB teams, the Toronto Blue Jays of the American League and the Montreal Expos of the National League, met annually to contest the Pearson Cup; this tradition ended when the Expos moved to Washington DC for the 2005 season. Similarly, the New York Yankees played in the Mayor's Trophy Game against various local rivals from 1946 to 1983.\n\nIt also used to be commonplace to have a team play an exhibition against Minor League affiliates during the regular season, but worries of injuries to players, along with travel issues, have made this very rare. Exhibitions between inter-city teams in different leagues, like Chicago's Crosstown Classic and New York's Subway Series which used to be played solely as exhibitions for bragging rights are now blended into interleague play. The annual MLB All-Star Game, played in July between players from AL teams and players from NL teams, had long been considered an exhibition match, though between 2003 and 2016 this status was questioned because the league whose team won the All-Star game has been awarded home field advantage for the upcoming World Series (prior to 2003 the leagues alternated which one of them had home field advantage; starting in 2017 the team with the better regular season record would be given home field advantage).\n\nAnother exhibition game, the Hall of Fame Game/Classic which was played in Cooperstown, New York on the weekend of inductions to the Baseball Hall of Fame, was also ended in 2008 due to interleague play and teams playing only substitutes.\n\nNational Basketball Association teams usually play eight preseason games per year, with the number rarely being lower than seven. Today, NBA teams almost always play each other in the preseason, but often at neutral sites within their market areas in order to allow those who can't usually make a trip to a home team's arena during the regular season to see a game close to home; for instance the Minnesota Timberwolves will play games in arenas in North and South Dakota, while the Phoenix Suns schedule one exhibition game outdoors at Indian Wells Tennis Garden in Indian Wells, California yearly, the only such instance an NBA game takes place in an outdoor venue. Exhibition games have been also been held on occasion outside the U.S. and Canada.\n\nHowever, from 1971 to 1975, NBA teams played preseason exhibitions against American Basketball Association teams. In the early days of the NBA, league clubs sometimes challenged the legendary barnstorming Harlem Globetrotters, with mixed success. The NBA has played preseason games in Europe and Asia. Beginning in 2015, the league has scheduled NBA Africa Games with players of direct African descent against players from the rest of the league; the NBA has also played against teams in Australia's National Basketball League. In the 2006 and 2007 seasons, the NBA and the primary European club competition, the Euroleague, conducted a preseason tournament featuring two NBA teams and the finalists from that year's Euroleague. In the 1998–99 and 2011–12 seasons, teams were limited to only two preseason games due to lockouts.\n\nThe annual NBA All-Star Game is an exhibition game. \n\nWomen's National Basketball Association teams play up to three preseasons games per year. WNBA teams will play each other and will also play women's national basketball teams. Most years, the WNBA also stages an All-Star Game, but this game is canceled if pre-empted by major international competitions such as the Olympic Games.\n\nTraditionally, major college basketball teams began their seasons with a few exhibition games. They played traveling teams made up of former college players on teams such as Athletes in Action or a team sponsored by Marathon Petroleum. On occasion before 1992, when FIBA allowed professional players on foreign national teams, colleges played those teams in exhibitions. However, in 2003, the National Collegiate Athletic Association banned games with non-college teams. Some teams have begun scheduling exhibition games against teams in NCAA Division II and NCAA Division III, or even against colleges and universities located in Canada. Major college basketball teams still travel to other countries during the summer to play in exhibition games, although a college team is allowed one foreign tour every four years, and a maximum of ten games in each tour.\n\nCompared to other team sports, the National Football League preseason is very structured. Every NFL team plays exactly four preseason games a year, two at home and two away, with the exception of two teams each year who play a fifth game, the Pro Football Hall of Fame Game. These exhibition games, most of which are held in the month of August, are played for the purpose of helping coaches narrow down the roster from the offseason limit of 90 players to the regular-season limit of 53 players. While the scheduling formula is not as rigid for preseason games as they are for the regular season, there are numerous restrictions and traditions that limit the choices of preseason opponents; teams are also restricted on what days and times they can play these games. Split-squad games, a practice common in baseball and hockey, where a team that is scheduled to play two games on the same day splits their team into two squads, are prohibited. The NFL has played exhibition games in Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia (including the American Bowl in 1999) and Mexico to spread the league's popularity (a game of this type was proposed for China but, due to financial and logistical problems, was eventually canceled). The league has tacitly forbidden the playing of non-league opponents, with the last interleague game having come in 1972 and the last game against a team other than an NFL team (the all-NFL rookie College All-Stars) was held in 1976. Exhibition games are quite unpopular with many fans, who resent having to pay regular-season prices for two home exhibition games as part of a season-ticket package. Numerous lawsuits have been brought by fans and classes of fans against the NFL or its member teams regarding this practice, but none have been successful in halting it. The Pro Bowl, traditionally played after the end of the NFL season (since 2011 played the week prior to the Super Bowl), is also considered an exhibition game.\nThe Arena Football League briefly had a two-game exhibition season in the early 2000s, a practice that ended in 2003 with a new television contract. Exhibition games outside of a structured season are relatively common among indoor American football leagues; because teams switch leagues frequently at that level of play, it is not uncommon to see some of the smaller leagues schedule exhibition games against teams that are from another league, about to join the league as a probational franchise, or a semi-pro outdoor team to fill holes in a schedule.\n\nMany college football teams, particularly larger organizations, play a public intramural exhibition game in the spring mainly to promote the team and give new recruits an early chance at public game action. Many of these intramural games are nationally televised, though not to the same level of prominence as intercollegiate play. In college sports the commonly used term for the major scrimmage at the end of spring practice is the \"Spring Game.\"\n\nTrue exhibition games between opposing colleges at the highest level do not exist in college football; due to the importance of opinion polling in the top level of college football, even exhibition games would not truly be exhibitions because they could influence the opinions of those polled. Intramural games are possible because a team playing against itself leaves little ability for poll participants to make judgments, and at levels below the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS), championships are decided by objective formulas and thus those teams can play non-league games without affecting their playoff hopes.\n\nHigh school football teams frequently participate in controlled scrimmages with other teams during preseason practice, but full exhibition games are rare because of league rules and concerns about finances, travel and player injuries, along with enrollments not being registered until the early part of August in most school districts under the traditional September–June academic term. Some states hold preseason events known as \"jamborees\" in which several pairs of high school football squads take turns playing one half (usually 24 minutes of game time) to give players some experience before the first official game. Another high school football exhibition contest is the all-star game, which usually brings together top players from a region. These games are typically played by graduating seniors after the regular season or in the summer. Many of these games, which include the U.S. Army All-American Bowl and Under Armour All-America Game, are used as showcases for players to be seen by colleges and increase their college recruiting profile.\n\nTeams in the Canadian Football League play two exhibition games each year, in June. Exhibition games in the CFL have taken on great importance to coaching staff and players alike in that they are used as a final stage of training camp and regular season rosters are finalized after the exhibition games, which are generally referred to as \"pre-season\" play.\n\nDuring the amateur era, there were no rugby union competitions between national teams. Therefore, matches between national teams are never considered \"exhibitions\" or \"friendlies,\" as they always have Test match status.\n\nNational teams sometimes play exhibition matches versus invitational teams like the Barbarian F.C. and Barbarian Rugby Club. Also, rugby union clubs sometimes play preseason matches.\n\nAustralian rules football has been introduced to a wide range of places around Australia and the world since the code originated in Victoria in 1859. Much of this expansion can be directly attributed to exhibition matches by the major leagues in regions and countries where the code has been played as a demonstration sport.\n\nVarious auto racing organizations hold exhibition events; these events usually award no championship points to participants, but they do offer prize money to participants. The NASCAR Cup Series holds two exhibition events annually – the Advance Auto Parts Clash, held at Daytona International Speedway at the start of the season, and the All-Star Race, held at Charlotte Motor Speedway midway through the season. Both events carry a hefty purse of over US$1,000,000. NASCAR has also held exhibition races at Suzuka Circuit and Twin Ring Motegi in Japan and Calder Park Thunderdome in Australia.\n\nOther historical examples of non-championship races include the Marlboro Challenge in IndyCar racing and the TOCA Touring Car Shootout in the British Touring Car Championship. Until the mid-1980s there were a significant number of non-championship Formula One races.\n\nThe National Hot Rod Association Pro Stock teams will have a preseason drag meet held before the traditional start in Pomona. The Pro Stock Showdown is a preseason drag meet held for the Pro Stock teams held at The Strip at Las Vegas Motor Speedway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46970091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46970091", "title": "Fast Companions", "text": "Fast Companions\n\nFast Companions is a 1932 American pre-Code sports drama film directed by Kurt Neumann and starring Tom Brown, Maureen O'Sullivan and James Gleason.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38393475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38393475", "title": "Forfeit (sport)", "text": "Forfeit (sport)\n\nIn various sports, a forfeit is a method in which a match automatically ends and the forfeiting team loses.\n\nThere are two distinct forms of forfeiture. One occurs when a team is unable to meet the basic standards for playing the game, either before the game begins or as a result of actions that happen during the match. In such a case, the team not forfeiting wins the match. The other is \"punitive forfeiture\", in which a team has been found to have broken the rules of a sanctioning body during a match they have won and must have the results stricken from the record; whether or not the other team receives a win in such a case depends on the rules of that body.\n\nBoth teams must have at least seven players at the beginning of the match per the Laws of the Game. When a team has fewer than seven players, the match cannot start or continue. When the number of players in a team falls definitely below seven (e.g. by five players sent off with red cards, or by injured players with no substitutions left, or a combination of both), the match is forfeited. Forfeits are also used as \"ex post\" disciplinary sanctions by governing bodies.\n\nA forfeited match is handled differently in various competitions; FIFA Disciplinary Code punishes the team sanctioned with a forfeit with a 3–0 loss (but the result on the pitch is upheld if the goal difference at the end of the match was greater than three).\n\nIn rare cases, baseball games are forfeited, usually in the event when a team is no longer able to play.\n\nIn basketball rules published by FIBA, a forfeit and default are two different things. A team will forfeit if:\nA forfeit results in loss for the offending team, a score of 20−0, and in tournaments that use the FIBA points system for standings, 0 points. Furthermore, in FIBA tournaments that use a two-game home-and-away series (two-legged tie) or a best-of-three playoff format, a team that forfeits any of the games loses the series by forfeit.\n\nIn FIBA tournaments, a forfeit is different from a default, a situation if during the game, the team has fewer than two players (e.g. one or zero players) on the playing court ready to play with no replacements on the bench remaining. In this case, the opponents are awarded with a win, and if they are leading, the score at the time of stoppage will be the final score; if they are not leading, they are awarded with a 2−0 win. Furthermore, in FIBA tournaments that use a two-game home-and-away series, a team that defaults in either game loses the series by default.\n\nIn tournaments and leagues that use winning percentage to rank teams, the difference between a forfeit and a default is negligible; however, for those that use the FIBA points system, a default is treated like an ordinary loss, as the team earns one point. Meanwhile, a team that forfeited earns no points. It is also more detrimental in tiebreaking situations as a defaulting team's worst result is the actual score if they were trailing when the game was stopped, or a 2–0 loss if they were trailing. A forfeit costs a 0–20 loss, and drags down a team's goal average worse than a 0–2 loss would.\n\nIn U.S. NCAA basketball, a referee decides a game is to be forfeited when any of these criteria are satisfied:\nThe forfeiting team loses the game 2−0, unless 30 minutes have lapsed in the game clock; in this case, the score at the end of play shall stand. When the team that is behind in the scorebook is to be declared the winning team, that score shall be marked with an asterisk in the official statistics; and it shall be noted that the game was won by forfeit.\n\nThe rules of the National Basketball Association do not mention how forfeitures are dealt with, but mention it is a possible sanction on a player or coach who violates the rules on ejections. Also, in the NBA, defaulting is virtually impossible, unless ejections bring a team to fewer than five players. When five players remain in a game, and one fouls out, a technical foul is called when a player who has fouled out is forced to remain in the game, or when, after an injury, a player who fouled out of the game previously returns to the game. These technical fouls are declared non-unsportsmanlike conduct fouls, for which no player or coach may be ejected.\n\nAs well as checkmate, chess games can be resigned or lost on time, but the term \"forfeit\" generally has a narrower meaning in the game.\n\nA forfeit occurs when a player does not appear at the match, and is generally a rare occurrence. A notable instance of forfeiture happened in the of the 1972 World Chess Championship. Bobby Fisher, due to disputes over the organisation of the match, refused to show, and the game was recorded as a win for his opponent. \n\nAdditionally, a player caught cheating will lose by forfeit.\n\nIn the sport of cricket a forfeiture occurs when a captain chooses to forfeit one of his side’s innings.\n\nIn the Gaelic games of hurling, Gaelic football, camogie and ladies' Gaelic football, a forfeit is called a \"walkover\" (). As well as losing the game, the team that gives a walkover in a competition may receive further punishment, such as a fine, deduction of league points or automatic relegation.\n\nThe most famous walkover in GAA history came in the 1910 All-Ireland Senior Football Championship Final; the match was scratched and Louth were awarded the championship as Kerry refused to travel to Dublin for the final because the Great Southern and Western Railway would not grant fans, players and officials discounted fares for the trip.\n\nIn American football, a team must begin with at least eleven people ready to play; a forfeiture occurs if a team does not have that many. It can also occur when the number of able players drops to below seven (the number legally required to man a line of scrimmage) at any point during game time, as a result of an unfair act, or punitive retroactive sanctions against a team from a governing body such as the NCAA.\n\nIn the event the team forfeiting the game is already losing at the time of the forfeit, the score at the time stands as is. Otherwise, forfeits result in a 2-0 score in the National Football League or a 1-0 score in high school football, NCAA and Canadian football. \n\nIn the case of high school and the NCAA, the forfeit is one of only two ways to finish with a score of only one point (the other is if a team's only score comes from a botched conversion attempt that results in their opponent getting backed all the way back into their own end zone).\n\nThe National Football League rulebook has a provision for forfeiture but has never used it (there was at least one alleged \"forfeit\" in the 1921 NFL season, but because league schedules were so fluid in the 1920s and it was never clear who was at fault for the game not being played, the league now considers it a cancellation, which was very common at the time). Former NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle noted that he had never used the league's forfeit provisions and would never change the result of a game after the fact, a stance that prevented the result of the Snowplow Game, a game that had been decided on an acknowledged but unpunished unfair act, from being forfeited. It was briefly discussed as a potential punishment during Spygate but never implemented. \n\nThe NCAA also uses punitive forfeiture in other sports. The Arena Football League has had one forfeit in its history, which came in 2012 as a result of a player's strike. In another case in 2015, two teams ceased operations prior to the end of the season, and because they were both slated to play each other, the game was recorded as a scoreless tie.\n\nA related concept is the \"vacation\", in which the team's wins are stricken from the record, but no loss is put in its place, and a team that lost in a game where the win was later vacated is still counted as a loss. The NCAA bylaws allow wins to be vacated as a form of punishment; the NFL does not.\n\nIn cases where a poker game is arranged but an opponent drops out, that person forfeits and remaining players win at that player's expense.\n\n"}
{"id": "34432106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34432106", "title": "Gymnastics at the 2012 Summer Olympics – Women's artistic team all-around", "text": "Gymnastics at the 2012 Summer Olympics – Women's artistic team all-around\n\nThe final of the women's artistic team all-around competition at the 2012 Summer Olympics was held at the North Greenwich Arena, London on 31 July 2012. Eight teams of five gymnasts competed in the final from a total of twelve teams which have qualified for the Games.\n\nTeams qualified for the final through the general artistic qualification performances on 29 July 2012. Each team composed of five gymnasts. The eight teams with the best combined scores in the qualification moved on to the team final.\n\nIn the team final, each team selected three gymnasts to compete on each apparatus. All three scores counted for the team score; the three scores on each apparatus were summed to give a final team score.\n\nThe following teams qualified for the Olympics by achieving a top eight placing at the 2011 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships.\n\nThe following teams qualified for the event by achieving a top four finish 2012 Olympic Test Event at the North Greenwich Arena, a competition open to the teams who had finished 9th to 16th at the 2011 World Championships.\n\nOn Sunday 29 July 2012, teams that had qualified to the Olympics competed for a place in the All-Around Team Final. The top 8 teams qualified to the team final to be held on Tuesday 31 July 2012.\n"}
{"id": "4868318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4868318", "title": "Hankiralli", "text": "Hankiralli\n\nThe Hankiralli is a Finnish motor rally, in the European Championship. In 1981, Finnish driver Ulf Grönholm was killed in practice for this event. His son, Marcus Grönholm, later went on to become the 2000 and 2002 World Champion rally driver. Swedish driver Stig Blomqvist won the event twice, in 1971 and 1977, in a Saab 96 V4.\n"}
{"id": "51096718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51096718", "title": "Indonesia at the 1986 Asian Games", "text": "Indonesia at the 1986 Asian Games\n\nIndonesia participated in the 1986 Asian Games held in Seoul, South Korea from September 20, 1986 to October 5, 1986. This country was ranked ninth with 1 gold medal, 5 silver medals and 14 bronze medals with a total of 20 medals top.\n"}
{"id": "4480387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4480387", "title": "Inverness Highland Games", "text": "Inverness Highland Games\n\nThe Inverness Highland Games (official name: \"City of Inverness Highland Games\"), is a Highland games event in the city of Inverness in the Scottish Highlands. The modern Games at Inverness have their origin in meetings held in 1821. That year, the \"Inverness Courier\" reported that fundraising was taking place in the town by members of the Northern Meeting Society in order to revive the ancient traditions and to bring a Highland games event to the capital of the Highlands. The Games took place in October 1822 at the end of a summer which saw numerous Highland Gatherings taking place across Scotland as part of the celebrations that were being held to mark the visit by King George IV. The 1822 Games held in Inverness were called a \"True Highland Games\" and featured three cows killed by sledgehammer in order for a competition to take place between teams of men to see who could pull a leg off one of the unfortunate animals the fastest and win a prize of five guineas. The 1822 Games also featured an unknown Stonemason pushing a 252 pound weight over a bar suspended 5 feet above the ground; and this unique challenge was revived in 2013 much to the delight of the modern crowd of Games fans\n\nIn 2006 Inverness hosted the Masters World Championships which was being held in Europe for the first time. In 2007 Inverness hosted the World Highland Games Heavy Championships which was being staged on Scottish soil for the first time since it was staged in Kilmarnock in 1995. The World Championship was won by Gregor Edmunds of Scotland with Larry Brock and Ryan Vierra of the USA finishing in second and third positions. In 2009 the Masters World Championships returned to Inverness for the second time and took place the week before \"The Gathering\" celebrations organised as the centre piece of Scotland's Year of Homecoming.\n\nFrom 1822 to 1938 the Highland Games staged in Inverness were organised by the members of Northern Meeting.\n\nNorthern Meeting Park was the venue for Highland Games organised in Inverness by the Northern Meeting Society from 1864 to 1938. In July 1939 the Northern Meeting Society decided that they wished to stop organising the Games after losing money for nine years. It was agreed that the Inverness Shopkeepers Association would be invited to take over the running of the Games but plans for a September 1939 event was abandoned as a result of the outbreak of the Second World War. The Games were staged in Northern Meeting Park for a final time in 1948 before it was decided that they would be moved to Bught Park. Today the Games are organised by the Highland Council in partnership with a Committee of volunteers. In 2010 the Games returned to the smaller Northern Meeting Park in preparation for celebrations to mark the 150th Anniversary of the World's oldest Highland Games stadium in 2014.\n\nThe 2014 celebrations featured two Highland Games in the same year for the first time with the regular Games staged in July and the Masters World Championships hosted in September. The September Games featured more Heavies than any other Games in history with 157 athletes from 14 countries taking part. The September Games ended with a Guinness World Record for Simultaneous Caber Tossing being established with 66 of the 110 Cabers thrown being successfully launched into the air at the same time and turning correctly. The return to Northern Meeting Park was a huge success but the following year the Games returned to Bught Park where it is now based.\n\n"}
{"id": "35642828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35642828", "title": "Jasmin Sports Hall", "text": "Jasmin Sports Hall\n\nJasmin Sports Hall (Macedonian: \"Спортска Сала Јасмин\") is a multi-purpose indoor sports arena located in Kavadarci, Republic of Macedonia and seats 2,500 spectators.\n\nThe arena is used for basketball by KK Feni Industries. In May 2011, it hosted the Final Four of the Balkan International Basketball League. It has also been used for concerts and handball by GRK Tikveš. \n\n"}
{"id": "17516699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17516699", "title": "KK Sloga", "text": "KK Sloga\n\nKošarkaški klub Sloga (), commonly referred to as KK Sloga, is a men's professional basketball club based in Kraljevo, Serbia. They are currently competing in the Basketball League of Serbia.\n\nThe main club colour is white and because of that Sloga players are often nicknamed \"Beli\". Fans of KK Sloga are Kasapi (The Butchers) and they also support football section of Sloga society - FK Sloga Kraljevo. \n\nSome of the club's star players over the years have included: Vlade Divac, Nenad Krstić and Ljubodrag Simonović.\n\nThe club has had several denominations through the years due to its sponsorship:\n\nThe Kraljevo Sports Hall is a multi-purpose indoor arena located, opened in 2015. It has a capacity of 3,331 seats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1955215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1955215", "title": "Kansas Coliseum", "text": "Kansas Coliseum\n\nKansas Coliseum was an entertainment complex in the Wichita suburb of Valley Center, Kansas. It is located southeast of I-135 and 85th Street North in the north Wichita metro area.\n\nIt hosted sporting events, concerts, shows, and consisted of four pavilions, one RV park and the 9,686-seat Britt Brown Arena, named for Harry Britton (Britt) Brown Jr., of Wichita, the former owner of \"The Wichita Eagle\" newspaper. Arena capacity could be configured for up to 12,200 people.\n\nIt was opened in 1977. Two brass plaques (one located on the lower level, by the box office windows and the other up on the main concourse) read:\n\n\"Dedicated September 1978, for the promotion of agricultural educational and cultural benefits, in behalf of the people of the world, by the citizens of Sedgwick County, the board of the county commissioners, the Kansas State Park and Resources Authority, the Economic Development Administration and the ozark regional commission of the United States Department of Commerce and the Kansas Coliseum Corporation.\"\n\nIt hosted NCAA Men's Basketball tournament first and second-round games in 1981 and 1994. The Wichita State University basketball teams played the 2002-03 season there while the Shockers' on-campus home, Charles Koch Arena, was undergoing major renovations.\n\nIt was the home of the now-defunct Wichita Wings indoor soccer team, who played in the MISL and NPSL between 1979 and 2001. The Kansas Coliseum was the home venue for the Wichita Stealth, Wichita Aviators, and Wichita Wild indoor/arena football teams between 2001-2008. It also was home to the Wichita Thunder ice hockey team that played in the Coliseum from 1992 to 2009. The Wichita Thunder now plays in the INTRUST Bank Arena in downtown Wichita, Kansas.\n\nThe last Wichita Thunder hockey game ever played at the Kansas Coliseum was on January 9, 2010 in front of a home crowd of 5,556. The Thunder lost the game 3-1 to the Odessa Jackalopes. Brent Ottmann would be the last Thunder player to score a goal in the building at 2:05 of the 1st period, and Kenny Bernard of Odessa scoring the last goal ever at 19:53 of the 3rd period.\n\nThe final event to take place inside the Arena was the RV and Boat show on February 20, 2010. As of February 22, 2010, The Britt Brown Arena closed its doors. The neighboring Kansas Pavilions will remain open until at least 2016, but the arena will no longer host events. Power will remain to the building, but water has been shut off and the pipes drained.\n\nOn January 10, 2012 the entire Coliseum complex was sold by Sedgwick County to aviation research developer Johnny Stevens for a sum of $1,462,487.12. The Britt Brown Arena will be transformed into an aerospace testing facility, and surrounding Pavilions and RV park will continue to be operated until January 1, 2016 and possibly beyond should the events be profitable. The complex is now privately owned and all Sedgwick County signing has been removed. The complex will now operate as Kansas Coliseum LLC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19023692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19023692", "title": "Keith Fraser (skier)", "text": "Keith Fraser (skier)\n\nKeith Fraser (born 4 February 1968) is a Scottish-born skier who represented Swaziland (as a bona fide naturalised citizen of that country) at the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville, France. He competed in three events: Slalom, where he failed to finish the first run; Giant Slalom, where he came 63rd (starting No.98 from 131 skiers) ; and Super G, finishing 79th (out of 118 skiers). So far, he is the only athlete to have represented Swaziland in the Winter Olympic Games.\n\nKeith, known locally as \"Swaz\" now works as a part-time ski instructor / trainer at Vail in Colorado, USA. He also serves as an instructor examiner with the Rocky Mountain Division of PSIA, the national association of instructors in the USA.\n\nKeith, a graduate of Heriot-Watt University also works as a Civil Engineer for Black & Veatch the US-based multi-national engineering consultancy that merged with Binnie and Partners in the mid-1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "24374541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24374541", "title": "Kirivong Sok Sen Chey FC", "text": "Kirivong Sok Sen Chey FC\n\nKirivong Sok Sen Chey, is a football (soccer) club based Takeo Province, Cambodia. After withdrew from 2016 Cambodian League, It plays in the 2016 Cambodian Second League, the second division of Cambodian football.\n\nSince the creation of the national football league, Kirivong Sok Sen Chey has participated in every single season of it.\n"}
{"id": "48204042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48204042", "title": "Kolodruma", "text": "Kolodruma\n\nKolodruma () is a velodrome and a multifunctional indoor arena located in Plovdiv, Bulgaria. It has a seating capacity of 4,800 to 7,500 spectators depending on its use. It is built on the place of the former track cycling velodrome in Plovdiv and currently is the only indoor velodrome in Bulgaria and the largest one on the Balkans.\n\nBesides cycling events the arena can host additional 22 types of sports and can serve as concert's hall. The complex has also underground parking facility for 300 vehicles, a modern press centre, dressing rooms, coaching facilities, a sports-recreational centre, restaurants and a large commercial centre for a wide variety of sports merchandise and kit.\n\nThe architect of the project is the Dutch Sander Douma, who has previously created the largest-known velodromes in Europe, notably the facilities in Athens, Monte Carlo, Palma de Majorca, and Manchester amongst others.\n\nThe arena was officially opened on 30 August 2015 by the presence of numerous government officials and Bulgarian sports celebrities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37577505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37577505", "title": "Lao-American College FC Stadium", "text": "Lao-American College FC Stadium\n\nThe Lao-American College FC Stadium or NUOLs Stadium is a Football Ground in Vientiane, Laos. It is used as the home stadium of Lao-American College FC in the Lao League. The Lao-American College FC Stadium holds 1,500 spectators.\n"}
{"id": "186976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186976", "title": "List of Go players", "text": "List of Go players\n\nThis page gives an overview of well-known professional and amateur players of the game of Go throughout the ages. The page has been divided into sections based on the era in which the Go players played and the country in which they played. As this was not necessarily their country of birth, a flag of that country precedes every player's name. For a complete list of player articles, see .\n\nThe important dates that this separation is based on are:\n\nA Japanese census on Go players performed in 2002 estimates that over 24 million people worldwide play Go, most of whom live in Asia. Most of the players listed on this page are professionals, though some top level amateurs have been included. Players famous for achievements outside Go are listed in their own section.\n\nWei Qi was recorded throughout the history of China. The first record of Wei Qi player was by Mencius.\n\nIn the 17th, 18th and 19th century, Go was popular in both Japan (Edo period) and China (period of the Qing Dynasty). In Korea, a Go variant called Sunjang baduk was played.\n\nAt the start of the Tokugawa Shogunate, four Go academies were established. This table lists all heads of these houses, as well as some that were appointed heir but died before they became head of the house. Tokugawa also established the post of Godokoro (minister of Go), which was awarded to the strongest player of a generation. Such players were dubbed Meijin (brilliant man), which was considered equal to a 9 dan professional grade. Over the 300-year period covered here, only ten players received the title of Meijin. Several other players (16 total) received the title of Jun-Meijin (half-Meijin), which is considered to equal an 8 dan professional grade and listed as such below. In some houses it was the custom that the head of the house was always named the same according to the iemoto system (家元). All heads of the house Inoue (井上) were named Inseki (因碩), heads of the house Yasui (安井 ) were named Senkaku (仙角) from the 4th head onward, and heads of the house Hayashi (林) were named Monnyu (門入) from the second head onward. To distinguish between these players, the names listed below are the names they had before becoming head of their house, or after their retirement. The house Honinbo (本因坊) had no such tradition, although heads would often take one character from the name of their predecessor into their own name, notably the character Shu (秀) from the 14th head onward.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19469576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19469576", "title": "Long Branch Stakes", "text": "Long Branch Stakes\n\nThe Long Branch Stakes is an American Thoroughbred horse race held annually at Monmouth Park Racetrack in Oceanport, New Jersey. Open to three-year-olds, it is contested on dirt over a distance of miles (8.5 furlongs). Raced in mid July, the Long Branch Stakes is a prep race for the $1 million Haskell Invitational Handicap in early August.\n\nFirst run in 1878, it was raced annually through 1893 after which the race track closed its gates. The race was revived in 1947 as the Long Branch Handicap following the 1946 reopening of the new Monmouth Park. There was no race from 1959 to 1962. In 1963 it was restarted as the Long Branch Stakes. In 2013 the race will be in its 79th running.\n\nFort Marcy won this race in 1967, the filly De La Rose in 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17999399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17999399", "title": "Masters Rugby League", "text": "Masters Rugby League\n\nMasters Rugby League is a derivative of rugby league for a wide age range of older, semi-retired and non-competitive players and officials. Masters Rugby League started in Brisbane Australia (South East Queensland Masters Rugby League inc which is still played today) and New Zealand in 1992 and has since grown in popularity, spreading to Australia and more recently to the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Masters of Rugby League New Zealand states, \"Masters Rugby League is the game for a lifetime, for semi-retired players and officials\". The Masters derivative of rugby league aimed to extend the playing, and officiating, life of people.\n\nIn 2008, in the United Kingdom the Rugby Football League (RFL) noted that there were only 2,000 registered club players aged 30 or over. This illustrates how the physical nature of competitive rugby league lends itself to being a young person's sport.\n\nMasters Rugby League started in New Zealand in 1992. Masters Rugby League in New Zealand has seen a growth in the number of teams since then as clubs became more aware of this grade. SPARC's Push Play campaign, promoting the benefits of physical activity has also had an impact.\n\nMasters of Rugby League Australia Inc. was a spinoff from the International Masters Tournament that was held at the Western Weekender Stadium, home of St Mary's Rugby League Club in Sydney in October 2004. Malcolm Duncan and Graeme Killeen, both associated with the Penrith Junior League became the President and Secretary respectively. With assistance from St Marys Leagues, keen referees from Penrith and others, Masters Rugby League grew.\n\nMasters of Rugby League Australia Inc. was established as a non-profit sporting organisation, with objectives increase access to the game for eligible participants and to promote the playing of rugby league in an environment of sportsmanship and goodwill.\n\nParticipants must be aged over 35 and have retired from competitive rugby.\n\nRugby league's \"Laws of the Game\" apply except for amendments made by the governing bodies. There are slight differences between those adopted in New Zealand and the United Kingdom and the rules operated in Australia but the general modifications are the same and aim to reduce the physicality of the game, with \"Rough and over vigorous play\" not being condoned, and to reduce the amount of running, for example the defence must only retreat 5 metres at the play-the-ball and there is no running from dummy half.\n\nMasters players are divided by age, this being signified through the use of different coloured shorts. Physical contact is restricted or removed in both attack and defence for individual players based on these colours. The younger players can tackle normally, if older players are involved in the tackle it may be completed by a two-handed hold or by a touch.\n\n"}
{"id": "48146784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48146784", "title": "Nikolai Ozerov", "text": "Nikolai Ozerov\n\nNikolai Nikolayevich Ozerov (; 11 December 1922 – 2 June 1997) was a Soviet tennis player and actor, who was best known as a leading sports commentator of the Soviet Union in the 1950s–80s. He was awarded the Olympic Order in 1992 and inducted to the IIHF Hall of Fame in 2016.\n\nOzerov was born to the opera singer ; his mother Nadezhda trained as a stage actress, but abandoned her career to raise her two sons. His elder brother Yuri became a prominent film director, and his great-grandfather was a notable 19th century composer. In the 1930s–60s Ozerov was a leading Soviet tennis player, and won 24 Soviet titles in singles and doubles between 1940 and 1963. During World War II, when the German army approached Moscow, Ozerov and a few remaining in Moscow tennis players were commissioned to play a long series of exhibition matches in various parts of the city. Those matches were enthusiastically covered by radio reports to raise the people's spirit.\n\nIn 1941 Ozerov enrolled to the acting department of GITIS, and after graduating in 1946 joined the Moscow Art Theater, where he played more than 20 roles. He was also featured as a sports commentator in 13 movies, such as \"The Hockey Players\" and \"O, Sport, You – the Peace!\"\n\nHis sports commentator career began on 29 August 1950, when he had his first solo report of the association football match Dynamo Moscow vs. CSKA Moscow. The report was met with a positive feedback from the radio listeners, and in the early 1950s Ozerov semi-retired from tennis to devote himself to commentator's work; though he continued to win Soviet titles until 1963. As a commentator Ozerov covered ice hockey at 15 Olympics and 30 world championships, and football at 8 World Cups and 6 European championships, visiting approximately 50 countries. He also trained newcoming sports commentators such as Vladimir Maslachenko, Vladimir Pereturin, Yevgeni Mayorov and Anna Dmitrieva.\n\nOzerov was forced to retire in 1988 as a result of competition on the Soviet television and radio. After that between 1992 and 1996 he served as chairman of the sports society Spartak, for which he previously played tennis and football. In the 1990s, he had his foot amputated after a scorpion bite, and rarely left his house after that. Leg inflammation due to the bite, combined with diabetes, eventually resulted in his death on 2 June 1997. He was buried at the Vvedenskoye Cemetery in Moscow.\n\nOzerov married aged 47, though he knew his wife since the age of 31. They had twins Nikolai and Nadezhda. Nikolai was a promising tennis player, but had to retire after a leg injury, which he received in a failed parachute jump while serving in the Soviet Army. Nadezhda received the IIHF Hall of Fame awards on behalf of her deceased father in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47581411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47581411", "title": "Nongrua Women's Volleyball Club", "text": "Nongrua Women's Volleyball Club\n\nThai-Denmark Nongrua is a female professional volleyball team based in Khonkaen, Thailand. The club was founded in 2015 and plays in the Thailand league.\n\n\n\nDomestic Players\n\n"}
{"id": "42048373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42048373", "title": "Northern Dynamo FC", "text": "Northern Dynamo FC\n\nNorthern Dynamo FC is a Seychelles based football club, they are playing in the Seychelles League.\n\nThe team is based in Glacis, Seychelles in Mahe island.\n\nCurrently the team plays at the 10,000 capacity Stade Linité.\n\n"}
{"id": "54006411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54006411", "title": "Post Swiss Team", "text": "Post Swiss Team\n\nPost Swiss Team () was a Swiss cycling team that existed from 1996 to 2001. The team was known as PMU Romand–Bepsa in 1996.\n"}
{"id": "3559716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3559716", "title": "Prescott Valley Event Center", "text": "Prescott Valley Event Center\n\nThe Prescott Valley Event Center (formerly Tim's Toyota Center and originally built as the Prescott Valley Convention & Events Center) is a 5,100-seat multi-purpose arena located at 3201 North Main Street in Prescott Valley, Arizona.\n\nSince opening in November 2006, it is home to a variety of Arizona Interscholastic Association basketball and wrestling competitions; for instance, in 2011, it hosted the 1A and 2A Conference semifinal and finals games and the 3A Conference quarterfinals. It has also hosted a few monster truck shows.\n\nThe arena hosted the American Indoor Football's Arizona Outlaws in 2012 and the Central Hockey League's Arizona Sundogs from 2006 to 2014.\n\nTim's Toyota, a Toyota dealership in Prescott with used car lots in Prescott Valley and Chino Valley, paid an undisclosed sum to be the corporate sponsor and namesake of the arena. That deal expired on September 30, 2014, with the arena reverting to the Prescott Valley Event Center name.\n\nThe only arena of its size between Las Vegas and Phoenix, other than the Walkup Skydome in Flagstaff, it is northern Arizona's sports and entertainment venue.\n\nAmong its amenities are 24 luxury suites (including two party suites), 400 club seats and parking for 3,000 cars. The arena accommodates up to 6,200 for concerts.\n\nThe venue has hosted well-known bands such as Chicago, Godsmack, Breaking Benjamin, Three Doors Down, and ZZ Top. It hosted its first-ever WWE event on July 29, 2007. Also, when the fair comes, the inside of the arena is used as a display.\n\nThe venue also hosted a high-profile college basketball game on November 30, 2011, when Brigham Young University faced Northern Arizona.\n\nOn April 11, 2016, it was announced that the Phoenix Suns would own their affiliate in the NBA Development League, the Northern Arizona Suns, after the purchasing the Bakersfield Jam, relocating the team from Bakersfield, California, to Prescott Valley for the 2016–17 season.\n\nOn October 4, 2016, presidential candidate and eventual president Donald Trump gave a speech at the Prescott Valley Event Center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "65964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65964", "title": "Pétanque", "text": "Pétanque\n\nPétanque (; ) is a sport that falls into the category of boules sports, along with raffa, bocce, boule lyonnaise, lawn bowls and crown green bowling. All of these sports share something in common, in that players or teams play their boules/balls towards a target ball. \n\nIn Pétanque the objective is to score points by having boules closer to the target than your opponent after all boules have been thrown. This is achieved by projecting boules closer to the target, called a cochonnet, or by hitting the opponents' boules away from the target, while standing inside a circle with both feet on the ground. \n\nThe game is normally played on hard dirt or gravel. It can be played in public areas in parks, or in dedicated facilities called \"boulodromes\".\n\nThe current form of the game originated in 1907 or 1910 in La Ciotat, in Provence, France. The French name \"pétanque\" (borrowed into English, with or without the acute accent) comes from \"petanca\" in the Provençal dialect of the Occitan language, deriving from the expression \"pès tancats\" , meaning 'feet fixed' or 'feet planted' (on the ground).\n\nBoules games has a very long history, dating back through the Middle Ages to ancient Rome, and before that to ancient Greece and Egypt.\n\nIn France in the second half of the 19th century a form of boules known as \"jeu provençal\" (or \"boule lyonnaise\") was extremely popular. In this form of the game players rolled their boules or ran three steps before throwing a boule. Pétanque originally developed as an offshoot or variant of \"jeu provençal\" in 1910, in what is now called the \"Jules Lenoir Boulodrome\" in the town of La Ciotat near Marseilles. A former \"jeu provençal\" player named Jules Lenoir was afflicted by rheumatism so severe that he could no longer run before throwing a boule. In fact, he could barely stand. A good friend named Ernest Pitiot was a local café owner. In order to accommodate his friend Lenoir, Pitiot developed a variant form of the game in which the length of the pitch or field was reduced by roughly half, and a player, instead of running to throw a boule, stood, stationary, in a circle. They called the game \"pieds tanqués\", \"feet planted\" (on the ground), a name that eventually evolved into the game's current name, \"pétanque\". \n\nThe first pétanque tournament was organized by Ernest Pitiot, along with his brother Joseph Pitiot, in 1910 in La Ciotat. After that the game spread quickly and soon became the most popular form of boules in France.\n\nBefore the mid-1800s, European boules games were played with solid wooden balls, usually made from boxwood root, a very hard wood. The late 1800s saw the introduction of cheap mass-manufactured nails, and wooden boules gradually began to be covered with nails, producing \"boules cloutées\" (\"nailed boules\"). After World War I, cannonball manufacturing technology was adapted to allow the manufacture of hollow, all-metal boules. The first all-metal boule, \"la Boule Intégrale\", was introduced in the mid-1920s by Paul Courtieu. The \"Intégrale\" was cast in a single piece from a bronze-aluminum alloy. Shortly thereafter Jean Blanc invented a process of manufacturing steel boules by stamping two steel blanks into hemispheres and then welding the two hemispheres together to create a boule. With this technological advance, hollow all-metal balls rapidly became the norm.\n\nAfter the development of the all-metal boule, pétanque spread rapidly from Provence to the rest of France, then to the rest of Europe, and then to Francophone colonies and countries around the globe. Today, many countries have their own national governing bodies.\n\nIn France, the \"Fédération Française de Pétanque et Jeu Provençal\" (FFPJP) has more than 300,000 licensed members.\n\nThere are strong national federations in Germany, Spain, and England. Petanque is actively played in many nations with histories of French colonial influence, especially in Southeast Asia, including Laos, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Puducherry, India, as well as some parts of Africa. Today, some of the strongest players in the world come from Madagascar and Thailand.\n\nPétanque was featured at the 2015 All-Africa Games, which were hosted by the Republic of Congo, a former French colony.\n\nPetanque is not widely played in the Americas. There is a Canadian petanque federation based in Québec. In the United States the Federation of Petanque USA (FPUSA) reports that about 30,000 play nationwide. As of December 1, 2015, FPUSA counted 2141 members in the US, in 52 affiliated clubs.\n\nOn the international level, the governing body of petanque is the \"Fédération Internationale de Pétanque et Jeu Provençal\" (FIPJP). It was founded in 1958 in Marseille and has about 600,000 members in 52 countries .\n\nIn popular culture: The game makes an appearance in the 1966 French crime film \"Le deuxieme souffle\".\n\nThere are a number of important world championship tournaments.\n\nThe FIPJP world championships take place every two years. Men's championships are held in even-numbered years, while Women's and Youth championships are held in odd-numbered years.\n\nPerhaps the best-known international championship is the \"Mondial la Marseillaise à Pétanque\", which takes place every year in Marseille, France, with more than 10,000 participants and more than 150,000 spectators.\n\nThe largest annual tournament in the United States is the Petanque Amelia Island Open (formerly the Petanque America Open), held in each year in November at Amelia Island, Florida.\n\nLa British Open is a major Pétanque tournament held in the North of England, in the United Kingdom. So far, this attracts players from across the UK and Europe. \n\nPétanque is not currently an Olympic sport, although the Confédération Mondiale des Sports de Boules — which was created in 1985 by several international boules organizations specifically for this purpose — has been lobbying the Olympic committee since 1985 to make it part of the summer Olympics.\n\nPétanque is played by two teams, where each team consists of one, two, or three players.\n\nIn the singles and doubles games each player plays with three metal boules. In triples each player uses only two.\n\nThe area where a pétanque game is played is called a \"terrain\". A game can be played in an open area like a public park, where the boundaries of the terrain are not marked, or more formally on a \"marked terrain\" where the terrain boundaries are marked (traditionally, by strings tightly strung between nails driven into the ground).\nIn pétanque, players throw while standing in a circle. Traditionally, the circle was simply scratched in the dirt. Starting around 2005, red plastic \"prefabricated\" circles were introduced and are now widely used in formal games. A circle drawn on the ground must be in diameter, while a plastic circle must have an inside diameter of .\n\nA game consists of several \"mènes\". The French word \"mène\" is usually translated into English as \"end\" or \"round\".\n\nAn end consists of the throwing out of the jack (the little wooden target ball), followed by the two teams throwing their boules.\n\nAfter both teams have thrown all of their boules, the team with the boule closest to the jack wins the end. The winning team scores one point for each of its boules that is closer than the opposing team's closest boule. That means that the winning team could in theory score as many as six points in an end, although a score of one or two points is more typical.\n\nAs the game progresses, each team accumulates points until one of the teams reaches 13, the winning number of points.\n\nA game begins with a coin toss to determine which team plays first. The team that wins the toss begins the game by placing the circle, then standing in the circle and throwing the jack to a distance of . A player from the team that threw the jack, throws the first boule. Then a player from the opposing team throws a boule.\n\nFrom that point on, the team with the boule that is closest to the jack is said to \"have the point\". The team that does not have the point, throws the next boule. That team continues to throw boules until it either gains the point, or runs out of boules.\n\nIf at any point the closest boules from each team are equidistant from the jack, then the team that threw the last boule throws again. If the boules are still equidistant then the teams play alternately until the tie is broken. If the boules are still equidistant at the end of the \"mène\" then neither team scores any points.\n\nThe team that won the end, starts the next end. A player from the winning team places (or draws) a circle around the jack. He/she then picks up the jack, stands in the circle, and throws the jack to start the next end.\n\n An end is complete when both teams have played all of their boules, or when the jack is knocked out of play (goes \"dead\").\n\nIf the end finishes in the usual way—with the jack still alive and one team with the closest boule—then the team with the closest boule wins the end and scores one point for each of its boules that is closer to the jack than other team's closest boule.\n\nIf the jack is alive but there is an \"equidistant boules\" situation at the end of the mène, then neither team scores any points. If the jack is dead at the finish of the end, then if one (and only one) team still has boules left to play, that team scores one point for each boule that it still has in hand. Otherwise neither team scores any points in the end (like an inning in baseball in which neither team scores any runs).\n\n\nLeisure boules are boules that do not meet the FIPJP standards for competition boules, but are less expensive than competition boules and completely adequate for \"backyard\" games. Unlike competition boules, leisure boules are a \"one size fits all\" affair — they come in one weight and size.\n\nCompetition boules must meet specifications set by the FIPJP. They must be hollow and made of metal (usually steel) with a diameter between and a weight between . When purchasing competition boules, a purchaser has a choice of a number of characteristics of the boules, including the size, weight, and hardness of the boules, as well as the striations (patterned grooves on the surface of the boules).\n\nThe jack, or target ball, is a small ball made of wood, traditionally boxwood or beechwood, in diameter. In the past jacks were often left \"natural\"—unfinished or with a clear finish—but nowadays they are often painted in bright colors. In French, the jack is known by a variety of names, including \"but\" (goal or target), \"cochonnet\" (piglet), \"bouchon\" (\"little ball\" in provençal language, not related to the french word \"bouchon\" that designate a bottle stopper), \"le petit\" (the little one), and \"gari\" (\"rat\", also in provençal language).\n\nPétanque can be played on almost any flat, open space. The ground may be irregular and interrupted by trees or rocks, and the surface is likely to be uneven, with some areas hard and smooth and other areas rough and stony. When an area is constructed specifically for the purposes of playing petanque, the playing surface is typically loose gravel, decomposed granite, brick grog or crushed sea shell. Sandy beaches are not suitable, although light plastic boules are sometimes used to adapt the game for the beach. There is no requirement for backboards or sideboards (as in bocce), but dedicated playing areas are often enclosed in boards or some other structural barrier.\n\nIn France, village squares and park pathways are often used as pétanque playing areas. In addition, many towns have recreational facilities (\"boulodromes\") constructed especially for playing pétanque.\n\nAn area where a single pétanque game is played is called a 'piste'. A \"terrain\" is an area where one or more petanque games are being played. At any given time a \"terrain\" may be hosting one or more \"pistes\".\n\nFor tournaments, a large playing area is subdivided and marked off (typically using nails and string) into rectangular \"marked terrains\" (also known as \"lanes\" (\"cadres\") or \"pistes\") so that multiple games may be carried on simultaneously. For tournament play, a marked terrain is a rectangle at least wide and long.\n\nIn the United States, proponents of pétanque such as author Byron Putman often urge the use of non-dedicated public terrains – public walking paths, playground areas, dirt/gravel parking lots, and baseball infields – as terrains.\n\nGenerally speaking, a player throws a boule with one of two objectives.\nThe best throw of all is called a \"carreau\". It is a shot that knocks away the opponent's boule, leaving the thrown boule exactly in its place.\n\nPlayers who are skillful enough to shoot effectively are called \"shooters\"; players who usually point are called \"pointers\". (The French terms are \"tireur\" and \"pointeur\", respectively.) As a matter of strategy, pointers play first and shooters are held in reserve in case the opponents place well. Good pointing is what scores points, but national and international championships are usually dominated by skillful shooters, who target any opposing boule that comes close to scoring.\n\nSome strategic considerations involved in the throw of a boule include:\n\n\nStrategic considerations involved in the throw of the jack include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29966023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29966023", "title": "Rajarshi Shahu Stadium", "text": "Rajarshi Shahu Stadium\n\nRajarshi Shahu Football Stadium is a historic football stadium in Kolhapur City.\n\nDuring I-League 2010-11 season Rajarshi Shahu Stadium hosted numerous matches of Mumbai teams due to unavailability of Cooperage Ground in Mumbai. Mumbai FC, ONGC FC and Air India played their all home games at this ground throughout the 2010-11 season.\n\nThe stadium is named in honour of Rajarshi Shahu Maharaj, the first Maharaja of the Indian princely state of Kolhapur between 1894 and 1922.\n\nFootball is a popular sport in the Kolhapur city. 16 football clubs of KSA league Division A use the stadium. The leagues are conducted by the Kolhapur Sports Association. Football Mahasangram is an annual, summertime championship.\n\nIn 2014 Shivaji Mandal scored seven goals on ptm. Shivaji had the largest crowd in Kolhapur's history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218886", "title": "Scandinavium", "text": "Scandinavium\n\nScandinavium () is an indoor arena located in Gothenburg, Sweden. Construction on Scandinavium began in 1969 after decades of setbacks, and was inaugurated on 18 May 1971.\n\nScandinavium has been selected as a championship arena at least fifty times, hosting events such as World Championships in handball and ice hockey, European championships, Davis Cup finals, and in 1985 the Eurovision Song Contest. Scandinavium is the home arena for Frölunda HC of Swedish Hockey League, and venue for the annual Göteborg Horse Show.\n\nPlans to build an arena at the site were part of a proposal originating from 1931 to build a swimming hall and other municipally owned facilities for sport and recreation next to the exhibition center Svenska Mässan. In 1936 a preplanning process for the swimming hall and the adjunct area started, but was put on hold due to the precarious situation in Europe at the time and eventually canceled following the outbreak of World War II. In 1948 an architectural design competition was announced for an indoor arena with the project name Valhalla Inomhusarena (), the winning design was presented by a work group led by architect Poul Hultberg, who was working for Nils Olsson's architect firm in Gothenburg. Financing for the arena and other proposed facilities became a subject of public and political debate, the plans to build the arena were postponed indefinitely. The Valhalla Swimming Hall, which was the primary building in the 1931 proposal, was the only proposed facility to be built during the 1950s due to capacity problems at other central swimming facilities.\n\nIn the 1962 election campaign the Swedish Social Democratic Party guaranteed that they would build the arena if they won the election. The Social Democrats won the election and a pre-planning process was started but financing was still an issue and the plans were yet again put on hold. In 1968 a committee assigned to plan the 350th year celebration of Gothenburg considered that it was a good idea to build the arena in time for the celebrations in 1971, making it a lasting memory of the anniversary. A company responsible for the construction was formed by the municipality and private investors, while Hultberg was asked to revise his 23-year-old designs. An estimated construction cost of twenty-three million SEK caused wild protests and intense debates but did not delay the progress. In May 1969 it was discovered that there was no construction permit for the arena, delaying the start of construction for a few weeks. When tartan tracks were installed near the end of construction, the concentration of flammable gases in the building was so high that one spark could have potentially blown up the entire structure. When construction was completed in May 1971, Scandinavium stood as the largest covered arena in northern Europe with an attendance capacity of 14,000 spectators. The construction cost totaled thirty-one million SEK, which resulted in an eight million SEK budget deficit.\n\nScandinavium's \"sweeping appearance\" comes from the hyperbolic paraboloid shaped saddle roof. The roof is supported by a prestressed cable net, with a nearly constant spacing of four meters in both directions, anchored in a space curved reinforced concrete ring beam with a rectangular cross-section of 3.5 meters × 1.2 meters (11.5 ft × 4 ft). The hanging cables rise ten meters to the top from the saddle point and the bracing cables fall four meters to the valley of the ring beam. The building is 14 meters (46 ft) tall, from the event floor to the pinnacle of the roof. The ring beam is supported by forty circular columns and four stiff pylons, all visible in the arenas facade. The pylons consist of radially oriented concrete walls, with a length of 3.5 meters (11.5 ft), which stores ventilation equipment. The video board, lights, and sound system is suspended in a radially oriented cable system anchored in the four pylons. It was not consider stable enough for colour telecasting to attach these components directly to the roof. The cable system also serves as tension rods for the ring beam.\n\nThe seating in Scandinavium is arranged in a one-level monolithic grandstand. The round design of the structure and the symmetric oval shape of the 4,100 m² (44,100 ft²) arena floor results in more rows along the length of the floor. The first six rows are telescopic seating which can be electrically retracted. There are forty-four executive boxes in the arena, located between the two northern pylons.\n\nThe ice hockey rink measures 61 meters × 30 meters (200 ft × 98.5 ft) which is standard international size. New double frame half boards were installed in 2001, designed to switch to NHL rink dimensions or to be easily removed when other events than ice hockey take place. To maximize the view for spectators, a seamless protective glass barrier consisting of tempered glass panels clipped together at their top corners with clear plastic brackets is used instead of traditional Plexiglas with metal dividers.\n\nFor the 2011 Göteborg Horse Show a new equestrian surface was purchased for 2 million SEK.\n\nScandinavium is located in central Gothenburg, in the Heden district of the borough Centrum. Scandinavium is one of the center pieces of the event district called Evenemangsstråket, with Ullevi Stadium, Liseberg, Universeum, the Museum of World Culture, and Bergakungen nearby. Public transport is easily accessible; Just outside there is a tram stop named after the arena, which serves tram lines six, eight, thirteen, and fourteen. Tram lines four and five stops 250 meters from the arena at Korsvägen, a major public transport hub, which serves more than fifteen different bus lines, and will have an underground rapid transit station once Västlänken is completed. Approximately one and one half kilometer north west from Scandinavium is the Gothenburg Central Station and the Nils Ericson Terminal, one half kilometer south east is the Liseberg station serving the Gothenburg commuter rail.\n\nWhen Frölunda and the Ottawa Senators played an exhibition game on 2 October 2008, spectators could use their game tickets for free travel with public transportation within Gothenburg's municipality, before and after the game. Extra trams and buses were in traffic during this time. The campaign was a test to see if it would be possible to include a public transportation fee on tickets to future events.\n\nDue to Scandinavium's central location the arena site itself does not have any public parking spaces, parking is only provided for sponsors, the press, and event personnel at a guard-gated parking lot next to Valhalla IP. Visitors are guided to eighteen nearby parking lots and parking garages—with a total of 7,000 parking spaces—by the event districts parking guidance and information system. The system has a total of 130 digital signs, located on motorways with information about which exit to use, and on streets in the city with more detailed information about directions and number of available parking spaces.\n\nThe arena has also hosted a semifinal of Melodifestivalen every year since the introduction of the current format, except for 2002 itself. It was also considered to host the final of Melodifestivalen 2010, but scheduling conflicts ruled this out. The arena hosts the annual Göteborg Horse Show every year since 1977.\n\nThe arena has hosted concerts by many famous artists, spanning many different genres. Some of the first major concerts to take place at the venue were performed by The Who, Deep Purple and Led Zeppelin during their 1972 and 1973 European Tours respectively. Iron Maiden have performed at the arena the most with a total of nine times with the latest being in 2006.\n\nThe arena was among one of the four potential candidate venues to host the Eurovision Song Contest 2013. In the end, the Malmö Arena was chosen to host the contest.\n\n"}
{"id": "641406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=641406", "title": "Scout (sport)", "text": "Scout (sport)\n\nIn professional sports, scouts are experienced talent evaluators who travel extensively for the purposes of watching athletes play their chosen sports and determining whether their set of skills and talents represent what is needed by the scout's organization. Some scouts are interested primarily in the selection of \"prospects\", younger players who may require further development by the acquiring team but who are judged to be worthy of that effort and expense for the potential future payoff that it could bring, while others concentrate on players who are already polished professionals whose rights may be available soon, either through free agency or trading, and who are seen as filling a team's specific need at a certain position. \"Advance scouts\" watch the teams that their teams are going to play in order to help determine strategy.\n\nMany scouts are former coaches or retired players, while others have made a career just of being scouts. Skilled scouts who help to determine which players will fit in well with an organization can be the major difference between success and failure for the team with regard to wins and losses, which often relates directly to the organization's financial success or lack thereof as well.\n\nScouts tend to have to perform one of two tasks, either scouting opposition teams to research the opposition's players and tactics, or scouting individual players to identify their level of skill and to keep track of potential new signings.\n\nContemporary Major League Baseball teams usually classify scouts and their differing responsibilities as follows:\n\nAccording to Tony Lucadello, considered by some to be the greatest scout ever, the four kinds of scouts start with the letter 'P':\n\n\nLucadello estimated that five percent of scouts were poor, five percent pickers, 85 percent performance scouts and five percent projectors.\n\nModern day scouts are becoming more and more reliant on computer programs to aid and assist in the evaluation of talent being scouted. Many professional sport clubs now use computers to organize their collected information and data. Most sports still depend on human management to decide which players their organization will draft or sign.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40015281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40015281", "title": "Sevastopol Sports Complex", "text": "Sevastopol Sports Complex\n\nSevastopol Sports Complex is a football stadium in Sevastopol, located in the Crimean Peninsula claimed by both Russia and Ukraine. It is currently used for football matches, and was the home of FC Sevastopol in the Ukrainian Premier League. The stadium's capacity is 5,864.\n"}
{"id": "25929449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25929449", "title": "South Korea at the 1958 Asian Games", "text": "South Korea at the 1958 Asian Games\n\nSouth Korea (IOC designation:Korea) participated in the 1958 Asian Games held in Tokyo, Japan from May 24, 1958, to June 1, 1958.\n"}
{"id": "53094101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53094101", "title": "South Pine Sports Complex", "text": "South Pine Sports Complex\n\nSouth Pine Sports Complex is a sport and leisure centre in Brendale, a suburb of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. It was the primary home ground for the Brisbane Lions in the AFL Women's competition during the 2017 and 2018 seasons. On 18 February 2017, it hosted its first AFL Women's game, between Brisbane and Collingwood. No games were fixtured at the venue for the 2019 season, with most being moved to Moreton Bay Central Sports Complex.\n"}
{"id": "25016508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25016508", "title": "Syria at the 2009 Asian Indoor Games", "text": "Syria at the 2009 Asian Indoor Games\n\nSyria participated in the 2009 Asian Indoor Games in Hanoi, Vietnam on 30 October – 8 November 2009.\n"}
{"id": "32488019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32488019", "title": "Tahiti at the 2011 World Aquatics Championships", "text": "Tahiti at the 2011 World Aquatics Championships\n\nTahiti competed at the 2011 FINA World Championships in Shanghai, China, July 16–31, 2011.\n\nFrench Polynesia qualified 3 swimmers.\n"}
{"id": "12288011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12288011", "title": "Tout Wars", "text": "Tout Wars\n\nTout Wars is the most high-profile fantasy baseball experts league and was the focus of the 2006 best selling book \"Fantasyland\". It was created in 1997 by Ron Shandler who was fed up with the lack of promotion USA Today gave its annual LABR fantasy baseball experts league. The drafts are conducted each year in late March shortly before the MLB season and include a 12 team AL-only league, a 13-team NL-only league and a 12-team mixed league (added in 2005). Tout Wars was featured as the subject of a 2010 documentary called \"Fantasyland\" based on the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "3190732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3190732", "title": "Volata", "text": "Volata\n\nVolata (\"flow\") is a code of football developed and promoted by Italian fascists for a brief period during the late 1920s and early 1930s, in an attempt to displace sports with non-Italian origins, such as association football (soccer) and rugby union.\n\nAssociation football was popular in Italy when the fascists came to power in 1921. Rugby union was a new and relatively minor sport, but also growing in popularity.\n\nAlthough the fascists idealized association football for its contribution to physical fitness, it was also seen at the time as an \"English game\" (because the rules had been codified by the English Football Association and the first organized matches had taken place in England). The fascists generally distanced themselves from cultural practices with foreign roots.\n\nConversely, rugby was seen as having links to the extinct Ancient Roman game of \"harpastum\". By 1927, fascist propaganda actively promoted rugby – which it referred to as \"palla ovale\" (\"oval ball\"). However, the \"Federazione Italiana Rugby\" proved resistant to manipulation and the fascists quickly ceased their support.\n\nThe national secretary of the Fascist Party, Augusto Turati, devised volata. Officially, the rules were based on long-extinct codes of football indigenous to Italy, especially the Roman harpastum and the medieval \"calcio Fiorentino\". Volata was contested by eight-member sides, with rules that were described by a 1929 propaganda newsreel from \"Istituto Luce\" as a \"synthesis of the essential elements of the games of \"calcio\" and rugby\" (\"sintesi di elementi essenziali del giuoco del calcio e del \"rugby\"\"). Use of the word \"calcio\" was ambiguous, as it was the usual name of association football, as well as \"calcio Fiorentino\", which in 1930 was also revived at the fascists' behest.\n\nPromoted by Fascist sporting and cultural organizations, Volata enjoyed a brief phase of popularity. More than 100 Volata clubs and a league were reportedly formed. However, the enduring popularity of association football caused the fascists to change their attitude toward the sport.\n\nIn 1933, volata organizations and competitions were officially abandoned. Afterwards the fascists encouraged association football; Italy hosted and won the 1934 World Cup.\n\nThe popularity of rugby and its place within Italian sporting culture appear to have been reduced by the changing policies of the fascists, as well as the invention of volata. Nevertheless, rugby survived the fascist period and began to grow when Italy was occupied by British Commonwealth forces during 1943–47.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19581417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19581417", "title": "Wall Stadium (Doha)", "text": "Wall Stadium (Doha)\n\nThe Wall Stadium (also nicknamed \"The Laptop\") is an underground stadium, currently under construction in Doha, Qatar.\n\nDesigned by architecture firm MZ Architects / MZ & Partners, the Wall Stadium is a one of a kind football stadium, unique in its form and revolutionary in its design, emerging from a green shallow dune. Its main stand sits upright, the majority of its height emerging from the underground pitch. \nA lawn and stand will be built in the basement of the stadium. It has an advantage of having fresh air beneath the feet, thus adding to the overall speed of the game as players are fresh throughout the game. Another innovative feature is that there will be no traditional floodlights or light towers as normally seen around sports stadiums around the world, as all lights will be embedded within the surrounding architecture, adding to the stadium’s mystical feel.\n\n"}
