{"id": "5831753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5831753", "title": "2059 Baboquivari", "text": "2059 Baboquivari\n\n2059 Baboquivari, provisional designation , is an asteroid classified as near-Earth object of the Amor group, approximately 1.9 kilometers in diameter. Discovered by the Indiana Asteroid Program in 1963, it was later named after the Baboquivari Mountains in Arizona, United States.\n\n\"Baboquivari\" is one of the lowest numbered near-Earth asteroids as it was already discovered on 16 October 1963. The discovery observation was made by the Indiana Asteroid Program at Goethe Link Observatory near Brooklyn, Indiana, in the United States. Three months later, it became a lost asteroid until June 1976, when it was recovered by the Steward Observatory's 90-inch Bok Telescope at Kitt Peak National Observatory located in the Sonoran Desert of Arizona.\n\n\"Baboquivari\" is an Amor asteroid – a subgroup of near-Earth asteroids that approach the orbit of Earth from beyond, but do not cross it. It orbits the Sun at a distance of 1.2–4.1 AU once every 4 years and 4 months (1,577 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.53 and an inclination of 11° with respect to the ecliptic.\nThe body's observation arc begins at the discovering observatory, 10 days after its official discovery observation.\n\nThe asteroid has an Earth minimum orbit intersection distance of , which corresponds to 98.8 lunar distances. It approached the Earth at a similar distance on 20 October 1963, shortly after its discovery. The eccentric asteroid is also a Mars-crosser and approached Jupiter at a distance of about 1.4 AU on 20 April 1970.\n\nLittle is known about \"Baboquivari\"s physical characteristics. Its spectral type has never been determined.\n\nIt is classified as a near-Earth object larger than one kilometer in diameter by the Minor Planet Center (\"1+ KM\"). A generic magnitude-to-diameter conversion gives a diameter of 1.9 kilometers, based on the body's absolute magnitude of 16.0 and an assumed standard albedo for stony S-type asteroids (\"Baboquivari\" would still measure 1.3 kilometers in diameter, if it had a higher albedo of 0.4, typically seen among bright members of the Hungaria family).\n\nAs of 2017, no rotational lightcurve of \"Baboquivari\" has been obtained from photometric observations. The asteroid's rotation period, poles and shape remain unknown.\n\nThis minor planet was named after the main-peak of the Baboquivari Mountains, a sacred location in the mythology of the Papago Indian Tribe. The Observatories of the Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy (AURA) are located on the Baboquivari land, just a few kilometers south of Kitt Peak. The approved naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 1 December 1979 ().\n\n"}
{"id": "16423737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16423737", "title": "31192 Aigoual", "text": "31192 Aigoual\n\n31192 Aigoual, provisional designation , is a Xizang asteroid from the central region of the asteroid belt, approximately 7 kilometers in diameter. It was discovered on 29 December 1997, by staff members of the Pises Observatory in southern France. The asteroid was named after Mont Aigoual in France.\n\n\"Aigoual\" is a member of the small Xizang family (), named after 2344 Xizang. It orbits the Sun in the central main-belt at a distance of 2.2–3.3 AU once every 4 years and 7 months (1,670 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.19 and an inclination of 3° with respect to the ecliptic. The asteroid was first identified as at Palomar Observatory in 1978, extending the body's observation arc by 19 years prior to its official discovery observation.\n\n\"Aigoual\" is an assumed carbonaceous C-type asteroid, while the overall spectral type of the Xizang family has not yet been evaluated.\n\nIn October 2010, a rotational lightcurve of \"Aigoual\" was obtained from photometric observations made by astronomers at the Palomar Transient Factory in California. Lightcurve analysis gave a rotation period of hours with a brightness amplitude of 0.56 magnitude ().\n\nThe \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" assumes a standard albedo for a carbonaceous asteroid of 0.057 and calculates a diameter of 7.3 kilometers with an absolute magnitude of 14.4.\n\nThis minor planet was named after Mont Aigoual, in the Cévennes National Park, where the discovering observatory is located. It is the highest mountain of the Cévennes in the Massif Central, France. The approved naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 28 March 2002 ().\n\n"}
{"id": "200366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200366", "title": "Apennine Mountains", "text": "Apennine Mountains\n\nThe Apennines or Apennine Mountains (; ; or \"\"—a singular used in the plural; ) are a mountain range consisting of parallel smaller chains extending along the length of peninsular Italy. In the northwest they join with the Ligurian Alps at Altare. In the southwest they end at Reggio di Calabria, the coastal city at the tip of the peninsula. Since 2000 the Environment Ministry of Italy, following the recommendations of the Apennines Park of Europe Project, has been defining the Apennines System to include the mountains of north Sicily, for a total distance of . The system forms an arc enclosing the east side of the Ligurian and Tyrrhenian Seas.\n\nThe etymology most frequently repeated, because of its semantic appropriateness, is that it derives from the Celtic \"Penn\", \"mountain, summit\": which could have been assigned during the Celtic domination of north Italy in the 4th century BC or before. The name originally applied to the north Apennines. However, historical linguists have never found a derivation with which they all agree. Wilhelm Deecke said: is doubtful but some derive it from the Ligurian-Celtish \"Pen\" or \"Ben\", which means mountain peak.\"\n\nThe Apennines also conserve some intact ecosystems, which have survived human intervention. In here there are some of the best preserved forests and montane grasslands in the whole continent, now protected by national parks and, within them, a high diversity of flora and fauna. These mountains are, in fact, one of the last refuges for the big European predators such as the Italian wolf and the marsican brown bear, now extinct in other countries of central Europe.\n\nThe mountains lend their name to the Apennine peninsula, which forms the major part of Italy. They are mostly verdant, although one side of the highest peak, Corno Grande is partially covered by Calderone glacier, the only glacier in the Apennines. It has been receding since 1794. The eastern slopes down to the Adriatic Sea are steep, while the western slopes form foothills on which most of peninsular Italy's cities are located. The mountains tend to be named from the province or provinces in which they are located; for example, the Ligurian Apennines are in Liguria. As the provincial borders have not always been stable, this practice has resulted in some confusion about exactly where the montane borders are. Often but not always a geographical feature can be found that lends itself to being a border.\n\nThe Apennines are divided into three sectors: northern (\"),\" central \"(\"), and \"\n\nA number of long hiking trails wind through the Apennines. Of note is European walking route E1 coming from northern Europe and traversing the lengths of the northern and central Apennines. The Grand Italian Trail begins in Trieste and after winding through the Alpine arc traverses the entire Apennine system, Sicily and Sardinia.\n\nThe northern Apennines consist of three sub-chains: the Ligurian ('), Tuscan-Emilian ('-emiliano), and Umbrian Apennines (\"\").\n\nThe Ligurian Apennines border the Ligurian Sea in the Gulf of Genoa, from about Savona below the upper Bormida River valley to about La Spezia (La Cisa pass) below the upper Magra River valley. The range follows the Gulf of Genoa separating it from the upper Po Valley. The northwestern border follows the line of the Bormida River to Acqui Terme. There the river continues northeast to Alessandria in the Po Valley, but the mountains bend away to the southeast.\n\nThe upper Bormida can be reached by a number of roads proceeding inland at a right angle to the coast southwest of Savona, the chief one being the Autostrada Torino-Savona. They ascend to the Bocchetta di Altare, sometimes called Colle di Cadibona, , the border between the Ligurian Alps along the coast to the west and the Ligurian Apennines. A bronze plaque fixed to a stone marks the top of the pass. In the vicinity are fragments of the old road and three ruins of former fortifications.\n\nAt Carcare, the main roads connect with the upper Bormida valley (Bormida di Millare) before turning west. The Scrivia, the Trebbia and the Taro, tributaries of the Po River, drain the northeast slopes. The range contains dozens of peaks. Toward the southern end the Aveto Natural Regional Park includes Monte Penna. Nearby is the highest point of Ligurian Apennines, Monte Maggiorasca at .\n\nThe main and only feasible overland route connecting the coastal plain of Liguria to the north Italian plain runs through Bocchetta di Altare. It has always been of strategic importance. Defenders of north Italy have had to control it since ancient times, as the various fortifications placed there testify. Trenitalia, the state railway system, highly developed on the coastal plain, now traverses the mountains routinely through a number of railway tunnels, such as the one at Giovi Pass.\n\nThe southeastern border of the Ligurian Apennines is the Fiume Magra, which projects into the Tyrrhenian Sea south of La Spezia, and the Fiume Taro, which runs in the opposite direction to join the Po River. The divide between the two upper river valleys is the Passo della Cisa (Cisa Pass). Under it (two tunnels) runs the Autostrada della Cisa between Spezia and Parma.\n\nStarting at Cisa Pass, the mountain chains turn further to the southeast to cross the peninsula along the border between the Emilia-Romagna and Tuscany regions. They are also named the Tuscan–Emilian Apennines west of the Futa pass and the Tuscan–Romagnol Apennines east of it, or just the Tuscan Apennines. They extend to the upper Tiber River. The highest point is Monte Cimone at .\n\nA separate branch, the Apuan Alps, goes to the southwest bordering the coast south of La Spezia. Whether they are to be considered part of the Apennines is a matter of opinion; certainly, they are part of the Apennine System. Topographically only the valley of the River Serchio, which running parallel to the coast turns and exits into the Tyrrhenian Sea north of Pisa, separates the Apuan Alps from the Apennines; geologically the rock is of a slightly different composition: marble. The Roman marble industry was centered at Luna, and is now active in Carrara.\n\nAs the Tuscan Apennines divide the peninsula between the Po Valley and the plains and hills of Tuscany and Lazio, transportation over them is essential to political and economic unity. Historically the Romans used the Via Flaminia between Rome and Rimini. The montane distance between Florence in Tuscany and Bologna in Emilia-Romagna is shorter, but exploitation of it required the conquest of more rugged terrain, which was not feasible for the ancients. Railway lines were constructed over the mountains in the early 19th century but they were of low capacity and unimprovable.\n\nSince 1856 a series of tunnels have been constructed to conduct \"the Bologna-Florence rail line\", which is neither a single line nor a single tunnel. The Porrettana Line went into service in 1864, the Direttissima in 1934 and the High Speed in 1996. A few dozen tunnels support the three of them, the longest on the High-Speed Line being the Voglia Tunnel at . The longest is on the Direttissima, the Great Apennine Tunnel, which at is the longest entirely within Italy, although the Simplon Tunnel, which connects Italy and Switzerland, is longer. Automobile traffic is carried by the Autostrada del Sole, Route A1, which goes through numerous shorter tunnels, bypassing an old road, originally Roman, through Futa Pass. In December 2015, a new Route A1 called Variante di Valico was opened after many years of construction consisting of major tunnels (the longest being the new 'Tunel Base') and new overpasses notably shortening the traveling time between Florence and Bologna by road.\nInside the Tuscan–Romagnol Apennines are in the southern part also the Foreste Casentinesi, Monte Falterona, Campigna National Park.\nGeographically the southernmost sharp limit of the Tuscan–Romagnol Apennines is the Bocca Serriola pass that is politically in northern Umbria and links Fano and Città di Castello.\n\nThe Tiber River at Rome flows from Monte Fumaiolo in the Tuscan-Romagnol Apennine from northeast to southwest, projecting into the Tyrrhenian Sea at right angles to the shore. The upper Tiber, however, flows from northwest to southeast, gradually turning through one right angle clockwise. The northern Tiber valley is deep and separates the Apennines on the left bank from a lesser range, the Tuscan Anti- or Sub-Apennines on its right.\n\nThe Apennine System forms an irregular arc with centers of curvature located in the Tyrrhenian Sea. The northern and southern segments comprise parallel chains that can be viewed as single overall mountain ridges, such as the Ligurian Mountains. The center, being thicker and more complex, is geologically divided into an inner and an outer arc with regard to the centers of curvature. The geologic definition, however, is not the same as the geographic.\n\nBased on rock type and orogenic incidents, the northern segment of the arc is divided into the Outer Northern Apennines (ONA) and the Inner Northern Apennines (INA). The Central Apennines are divided into the Umbrian–Marchean (') or Roman Apennines in the north and the Abruzzi Apennines (') in the south.It extends from Bocca Serriola pass in the north to Forlì pass in the south.\n\nThe west border of the Umbrian-Marchean Apennines (or \"Umbro-Marchean\") runs through Cagli. They extend south to the Tronto River, the south border of the ONA.\nThe highest peak, Monte Vettore, at , is part of the Monti Sibillini, incorporated into Parco Nazionale dei Monti Sibillini. Further inland is Parco Sasso Simone e Simoncello and further south Parco naturale regionale Gola della Rossa di Frasassi, in which are the Gola della Rossa (\"Canyon of the Red\") and Frasassi Caves. The Italian Park Service calls it the \"green heart\" of Italy. The region is heavily forested, such as the Riserva Naturale Statale Gola del Furlo, where Furlo Pass on the Via Flaminia is located. Both the Etruscans and the Romans constructed tunnels here.\n\nThe Abruzzi Apennines, located in Abruzzo, Molise (formerly part of Abruzzo) and southeastern Lazio, contain the highest peaks and most rugged terrain of the Apennines. They are known in history as the territory of the Italic peoples first defeated by the city of Rome. Coincidentally they exist in three parallel folds or chains surviving from the orogeny. These extend in a northwest-southeast direction from the River Tronto to the River Sangro, which drain into the Adriatic. The coastal hills of the east extend between San Benedetto del Tronto in the north and Torino di Sangro in the south.\n\nThe eastern chain consists mainly of the southern part of the Monti Sibillini, the Monti della Laga, the Gran Sasso d'Italia Massif and the Majella Massif. Among them are two national parks: Gran Sasso e Monti della Laga National Park and Majella National Park; and the Regional Park of the Monti Simbruini. Gran Sasso contains Corno Grande, the highest peak of the Apennines.\n\nOther features between the western and central ranges are the plain of Rieti, the valley of the Salto, and the Lago Fucino; while between the central and eastern ranges are the valleys of Aquila and Sulmona. The chief rivers on the west are the Nera, with its tributaries the Velino and Salto, and the Aniene, both of which fall into the Tiber. On the east there is at first a succession of small rivers which flow into the Adriatic, from which the highest points of the chain are some 20 km distant, such as the Tronto, Tordino, Vomano and others. The Pescara, which receives the Aterno from the north-west and the Gizio from the south-east, is more important; and so is the Sangro.\n\nThe central Apennines are crossed by the railway from Rome to Pescara via Avezzano and Sulmona: the railway from Orte to Terni (and thence to Foligno) follows the Nera valley; while from Terni a line ascends to the plain of Rieti, and thence crosses the central chain to Aquila, whence it follows the valley of the Aterno to Sulmona. In ancient times the Via Salaria, Via Caecilia and Via Valeria-Claudia all ran from Rome to the Adriatic coast. The volcanic mountains of the province of Rome are separated from the Apennines by the Tiber valley, and the Monti Lepini, part of the Volscian chain, by the valleys of the Sacco and Liri.\n\nThe southern Apennines can be divided into four major regions: (1) Samnite Apennines, (2) Campanian Apennines, (3) Lucan Apennines and (4) Calabrian Apennines including the Sicilian Apennines.They extend from Forlì pass towards south.\n\nIn the southern Apennines, to the south of the Sangro valley, the three parallel chains are broken up into smaller groups; among them may be named the Matese, the highest point of which is the Monte Miletto . The chief rivers on the south-west are the Liri or Garigliano with its tributary the Sacco, the Volturno, Sebeto, Sarno, on the north the Trigno, Biferno and Fortore.\n\nThe promontory of Monte Gargano, on the east, is completely isolated, and so are the Campanian volcanic arc near Naples. The district is traversed from north-west to south-east by the railway from Sulmona to Benevento and on to Avellino, and from south-west to northeast by the railways from Caianello via Isernia to Campobasso and Termoli, from Caserta to Benevento and Foggia, and from Nocera Inferiore and Avellino to Rocchetta S. Antonio, the junction for Foggia, Spinazzola (for Barletta, Bari, and Taranto) and Potenza. Roman roads followed the same lines as the railways: the Via Appia ran from Capua to Benevento, whence the older road went to Venosa and Taranto and so to Brindisi, while the Via Traiana ran nearly to Foggia and thence to Bari.\n\nThe valley of the Ofanto, which runs into the Adriatic close to Barletta, marks the northern termination of the first range of the Lucanian Apennines (now Basilicata), which runs from east to west, while south of the valleys of the Sele (on the west) and Basento (on the east)—which form the line followed by the railway from Battipaglia via Potenza to Metaponto—the second range begins to run due north and south as far as the plain of Sibari. The highest point is the Monte Pollino . The chief rivers are the Sele—joined by the Negro and Calore—on the west, and the Bradano, Basento, Agri, Sinni on the east, which flow into the gulf of Taranto; to the south of the last-named river there are only unimportant streams flowing into the sea east and west, inasmuch as here the width of the peninsula diminishes to some .\n\nThe railway running south from Sicignano to Lagonegro, ascending the valley of the Negro, is planned to extend to Cosenza, along the line followed by the ancient Via Popilia, which beyond Cosenza reached the west coast at Terina and thence followed it to Reggio. The Via Herculia, a branch of the Via Traiana, ran from Aequum Tuticum to the ancient Nerulum. At the narrowest point the plain of Sibari, through which the rivers Coscile and Crati flow to the sea, occurs on the east coast, extending halfway across the peninsula. Here the limestone Apennines proper cease and the granite mountains of Calabria begin.\n\nThe first group extends as far as the isthmus formed by the gulfs of South Eufemia and Squillace; it is known as the Sila, and the highest point reached is (the Botte Donato). The forests which covered it in ancient times supplied the Greeks and Sicilians with timber for shipbuilding. The railway from South Eufemia to Catanzaro and Catanzaro Marina crosses the isthmus, and an ancient road may have run from Squillace to Monteleone. The second group extends to the south end of the Italian Peninsula, culminating in the Aspromonte () to the east of Reggio di Calabria. In both groups the rivers are quite unimportant. Finally, the Calabrian southern Apennine Mountains extend along the northern coast of Sicily (the Sicilian Apennines, Italian \"Appennino siculo\")—Pizzo Carbonara () being the highest peak.\n\n\nThe number of vascular plant species in the Apennines has been estimated at 5,599. Of these, 728 (23.6%) are in the treeline ecotone. Hemicryptophytes predominate in the entire Apennine chain.\n\nThe tree line ecotone is mainly grasslands of the Montane grasslands and shrublands biome; with Temperate broadleaf and mixed forests, and Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub below it. The tree line in the Apennines can be found in the range to . About 5% of the map area covered by the Apennines is at or above the tree line—or in the treeline ecotone. The snow line is at about , leaving the Apennines below it, except for the one remaining glacier. Snow may fall from October to May. Rainfall increases with latitude. The range's climates, depending on elevation and latitude, are the Oceanic climate and Mediterranean climate.\nThe Apennines were created in the Apennine orogeny beginning in the early Neogene (about 20 mya, the middle Miocene) and continuing today. Geographically they are partially or appear to be continuous with the Alpine system. Prior to the explosion of data on the topic from about the year 2000 many authors took the approach that the Apennines had the same origin as the Alps. Even today some authors use the term Alpine-Apennine system. They are not, however, the same system and did not have the same origin. The Alps were millions of years old before the Apennines rose from the sea.\n\nBoth the Alps and the Apennines contain primarily sedimentary rock resulting from sedimentation of the ancient Tethys Sea in the Mesozoic. The northward movement of the African Plate and its collision with the European Plate then caused the Alpine Orogeny, beginning in the late Mesozoic. The band of mountains created extends from Spain to Turkey in a roughly east-west direction and includes the Alps. The Apennines are much younger, extend from northwest to southeast, and are not a displacement of the Alpine chain.\n\nThe key evidence of the difference is the geologic behavior of the Po Valley in northern Italy. Compressional forces have been acting from north to south in the Alps and from south to north in the Apennines, but instead of being squeezed into mountains the valley has been subsiding at 1 to per year since about 25 mya, before the Apennines It is now known to be not an erosional feature but is a filled portion of the Adriatic Trench, called the Adriatic foredeep after its function as a subduction zone was discovered. The Alps and the Apennines were always separated by this trench and were never part of the same system.\n\nThe Apennine orogeny is a type of mountain-building in which two simpler types are combined in an apparently paradoxical configuration. Sometimes this is referred to as \"syn-orogenic extension\", but the term implies that the two processes occur simultaneously during time. \nSome scientists imagine that this is relatively rare but not unique in mountain building, whereas others imagine that this is fairly common in all mountain belts.\n\nThe RETREAT Project have this specific feature as one of their focus points \nIn essence the east side of Italy features a fold and thrust belt raised by compressional forces acting under the Adriatic Sea. This side has been called the \"Apennine-Adriatic Compressional Zone\" or the \"Apennines Convergence Zone.\" On the west side of Italy fault-block mountains prevail, created by a spreading or extension of the crust under the Tyrrhenian Sea. This side is called the \"Tyrrhenian Extensional Zone.\" The mountains of Italy are of paradoxical provenience, having to derive from both compression and extension:\n\"The paradox of how contraction and extension can occur simultaneously in convergent mountain belts remains a fundamental and largely unresolved problem in continental dynamics.\"Both the folded and the fault-block systems include parallel mountain chains. In the folded system anticlines erode into the highest and longest massifs of the Apennines.\n\nAccording to the older theories (originating from the 1930s to 1970s) of Dutch geologists, including Van Bemmelen, compression and extension can and should occur simultaneously at different depths in a mountain belt. In these theories, these different levels are called \"Stockwerke\". More recent work in geotectonics and geodynamics of the same school of geoscientists (Utrecht and Amsterdam University) by Vlaar, Wortel, and Cloetingh, and their disciples, extended these concepts even further into a temporal realm. They demonstrated that internal and external forces acting upon the mountain belt (e.g., slab pull and intra-plate stress field modulations due to large scale reorganisations of the tectonic plates) result in both longer episodes and shorter phases of general extension and compression acting both upon and inside mountain belts and tectonic arches (See e.g. for extensive reviews, bibliography and discussions on the literature: \nVan Dijk (1992), \nVan Dijk and Okkes (1991), \nVan Dijk & Scheepers (1995), \nand Van Dijk et al. (2000a)).\n\nThe gradual subsidence of the Po Valley (including that of Venice) and the folding of the mountains of eastern Italy have been investigated using seismic wave analysis of the \"Apennine Subduction System.\" Along the Adriatic side of Italy the floor of the Adriatic Sea, referred to as the \"Adriatic lithosphere\" or the \"Adriatic plate,\" terms whose precise meaning is the subject of ongoing research, is dipping under the slab on which the Apennines have been folded by compressional forces.\n\nSubduction occurs along a fault, along which a hanging wall, or overriding slab is thrust over an overridden slab, also called the subducting slab. The fault that acts as the subduction interface is at the bottom of the Apennine wedge, characterized by a deep groove in the surface, typically filled with sediment, as sedimentation here occurs at a much faster rate than subduction. In north Italy the dip of this interface is 30° to 40° at a depth of 80–90 km.\n\nThe strike of the Apennine subduction zone forms a long, irregular arc with centers of curvature in the Tyrrhenian Sea following the hanging wall over which the mountains have been raised; i.e., the eastern wall of the mountains. It runs from near the base of the Ligurian Apennines in the Po Valley along the margin of the mountains to the Adriatic, along the coastal deeps of the Adriatic shore, strikes inland at Monte Gargano cutting off Apulia, out to sea again through the Gulf of Taranto, widely around the rest of Italy and Sicily and across inland north Africa. The upper mantle above deep is broken into the \"Northern Apennines Arc\" and the \"Calabrian Arc\", with compressional forces acting in different directions radially toward the arcs' centers of curvature. The overall plate tectonics of these events has been modeled in different ways but decisive data is still missing. The tectonics, however, are not the same as those which created the Alps.\n\nThe west side of Italy is given to a fault-block system, where the crust, extended by the lengthening mantle below, thinned, broke along roughly parallel fault lines, and the blocks alternatively sank into grabens or were raised by isostasy into horsts. This system prevails from Corsica eastward to the valley of the Tiber River, the last rift valley in that direction. It runs approximately across the direction of extension. In the fault-block system the ridges are lower and are more steep-sided, since the walls are formed by faults. Geographically they are not considered part of the Apennines proper but are termed \"sub-apennine\" or \"anti-apennine.\" These mountains are found mainly in Tuscany, Lazio and Campania.\n\nThe terrain of the Apennines (as well as that of the Alps) is to a large degree unstable due to various types of landslides, including falls and slides of rocks and debris, flows of earth and mud, and sink holes. The Institute for Environmental Protection and Research ('), a government agency founded in 2008 by combining three older agencies, published in that year a special report, \"Landslides in Italy\", summarizing the results of the IFFI Project ('), the Italian Landslide Inventory (\"\"), an extensive survey of historical landslides in Italy undertaken by the government starting in 1997. On December 31, 2007, it had studied and mapped 482,272 landslides over . Its major statistics are the Landslide Index (LI here), the ratio of the landslide area to the total area of a region, the Landslide Index in Mountainous-Hilly Areas (here LIMH) and the Density of Landslides, which is the number per .\n\nItaly as a whole has a LI of 6.8, a LIMH of 9.1 and a density of 160. Lombardia (LI of 13.9), Emilia-Romagna (11.4), Marches (19.4), Molise (14.0), Valle d'Aosta (16.0) and Piemonte (9.1) are significantly higher. The most unstable terrain in the Apennines when the landslide sites are plotted on the map are in order from most unstable the eastern flanks of the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines, the Central Apennines and the eastern flank of the southern Apennines. Instability there is comparable to the Alps bordering the Po Valley. The most stable terrain is on the western side: Liguria, Tuscany, Umbria and Lazio. The Apennines are slumping away to the northeast into the Po Valley and the Adriatic foredeep; that is, the zone where the Adriatic floor is being subducted under Italy. Slides with large translational or rotational surface movements are most common; e.g., a whole slope slumps into its valley, placing the population there at risk.\n\nGlaciers no longer exist in the Apennines outside the Gran Sasso d'Italia massif. However, post-Pliocene moraines have been observed in Basilicata.\n\nThe Apennines include about 21 peaks over , the approximate tree line (counting only the top peak in each massif). Most of these peaks are located in the Central Apennines.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2937920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2937920", "title": "Aquascaping", "text": "Aquascaping\n\nAquascaping is the craft of arranging aquatic plants, as well as rocks, stones, cavework, or driftwood, in an aesthetically pleasing manner within an aquarium—in effect, gardening under water. Aquascape designs include a number of distinct styles, including the garden-like Dutch style and the Japanese-inspired nature style. Typically, an aquascape houses fish as well as plants, although it is possible to create an aquascape with plants only, or with rockwork or other hardscape and no plants.\n\nAlthough the primary aim of aquascaping is to create an artful underwater landscape, the technical aspects of tank maintenance and the growth requirements of aquatic plants are also taken into consideration. Many factors must be balanced in the closed system of an aquarium tank to ensure the success of an aquascape. These factors include filtration, maintaining carbon dioxide at levels sufficient to support photosynthesis underwater, substrate and fertilization, lighting, and algae control.\n\nAquascape hobbyists trade plants, conduct contests, and share photographs and information via the Internet. The United States-based Aquatic Gardeners Association has about 1,200 members.\n\nThe Dutch aquarium employs a lush arrangement in which multiple types of plants having diverse leaf colors, sizes, and textures are displayed much as terrestrial plants are shown in a flower garden. This style was developed in the Netherlands starting in the 1930s, as freshwater aquarium equipment became commercially available. It emphasizes plants located on terraces of different heights, and frequently omits rocks and driftwood. Linear rows of plants running left-to-right are referred to as \"Dutch streets\". Although many plant types are used, one typically sees neatly trimmed groupings of plants with fine, feathery foliage, such as \"Limnophila aquatica\" and various types of \"Hygrophila\", along with the use of red-leaved \"Alternanthera reineckii\", \"Ammania gracilis\", and assorted \"Rotala\" for color highlights. More than 80% of the aquarium floor is covered with plants, and little or no substrate is left visible. Tall growing plants that cover the back glass originally served the purpose of hiding bulky equipment behind the tank.\n\nA contrasting approach is the \"nature aquarium\" or Japanese style, introduced in the 1990s by Takashi Amano. Amano's three-volume series, \"Nature Aquarium World,\" sparked a wave of interest in aquarium gardening, and he has been cited as having \"set a new standard in aquarium management\". Amano's compositions drew on Japanese gardening techniques that attempt to mimic natural landscapes by the asymmetrical arrangement of masses of relatively few species of plants, and which set rules governing carefully selected stones or driftwood, usually with a single focal point. The objective is to evoke a terrestrial landscape in miniature, rather than a colorful garden. This style draws particularly from the Japanese aesthetic concepts of , which focuses on transience and minimalism as sources of beauty. Plants with small leaves like \"Glossostigma elatinoides\", \"Eleocharis acicularis\", \"Eleocharis parvula\", \"Echinodorus tenellus\", \"Hemianthus callitrichoides\", \"Riccia fluitans\", small aquatic ferns, \"Staurogyne repens\", and Java moss (\"Versicularia dubyana\" or \"Taxiphyllum barbieri\") are often used to emulate grass or moss. Colors are more limited than in the Dutch style, and the hardscape is not completely covered. Fish, or freshwater shrimp such as \"Caridina multidentata\" and \"Neocaridina heteropoda\", are usually selected to complement the plants and control algae, but for reasons of minimalism the number of species are often limited.\n\nThe Iwagumi style is a specific subtype of the nature style. The term itself comes from the Japanese \"rock formation\" and refers to a layout where stones play a leading role. In the \"Iwagumi\" style, each stone has a name and a specific role. Rocks provide the bony structure of the aquascape and the typical geometry employs a design with three main stones, with one larger stone and two other smaller stones, although additional rocks can also be used. The , or main stone, is placed slightly off-center in the tank, and , or accompanying stones, are grouped near it, while , or secondary stones, are arranged in subordinate positions. The location of the focal point of the display, determined largely by the asymmetric placement of the \"Oyaishi\", is considered important, and follows ratios that reflect Pythagorean tuning.\n\nSome hobbyists also refer to a \"jungle\" (or \"wild jungle\") style, separate from either the Dutch or nature styles, and incorporating some of the features of them both. The plants are left to assume a natural, untrimmed look. Jungle style aquascapes usually have little or no visible hardscape material, as well as limited open space. Bold, coarser leaf shapes, such as \"Echinodorus bleheri\", are used to provide a wild, untamed appearance. Unlike nature syle, the jungle style does not follow clean lines, or employ fine textures. A jungle canopy effect can be obtained using combinations of darker substrates, tall plants growing up to the surface, and floating plants that block light, offering a dappled lighting effect. Other plants used in jungle style aquascapes include \"Microsorum pteropus\", \"Bolbitis heudelotii\", \"Vallisneria americana\", \"Crinum\" species, \"Aponogeton\" species, \"Echinodorus\" species, \"Sagittaria subulata\", \"Hygrophila pinnatifida\", \"Anubias\" species, and \"Limnobium laevigatum\".\n\nThe styles above often combine plant and animal species based on the desired visual impact, without regard to geographic origin. Biotope aquariums are designed instead to replicate exactly a particular aquatic habitat at a particular geographic location, and not necessarily to provide a gardenlike display. Plants and fish need not be present at all, but if they are, they must match what would be found in nature in the habitat being represented, as must any gravel and hardscape, and even the chemical composition of the water. By including only those organisms that naturally exist together, biotopes can be used to study ecological interactions in a relatively natural setting.\n\nA paludarium is an aquarium that combines water and land inside the same environment. These designs can represent habitats including tropical rainforests, jungles, riverbanks, bogs, or even the beach. In a paludarium, part of the aquarium is underwater, and part is above water. Substrate is built up so that some \"land\" regions are raised above the waterline, and the tank is only partially filled with water. This allows plants, such as \"Cyperus alternifolius\" and \"Spathiphyllum wallisii\", as well as various \"Anubias\" and some bromeliads, to grow emersed, with their roots underwater but their tops in the air, as well as completely submersed. In some configurations, plants that float on the surface of the water, such as \"Eichhornia crassipes\" and \"Pistia stratiotes\", can be displayed to full advantage. Unlike other aquarium setups, paludariums are particularly well-suited to keeping amphibians.\nDutch and nature style aquascapes are traditionally freshwater systems. In contrast, relatively few ornamental plants can be grown in a saltwater aquarium. Saltwater aquascaping typically centers, instead, on mimicking a reef. An arrangement of live rock forms the main structure of this aquascape, and it is populated by corals and other marine invertebrates as well as coralline algae, which together serve much the same aesthetic role as freshwater plants.\n\nLighting plays a particularly significant role in the reef aquascape. Many corals, as well as tridacnid clams, contain symbiotic fluorescent algae-like dinoflagellates called zooxanthellae. By providing intense lighting supplemented in the ultraviolet wavelengths, reef aquarists not only support the health of these invertebrates, but also elicit particularly bright colors emitted by the fluorescent microorganisms.\nIn addition to design, freshwater aquascaping also requires specific methods to maintain healthy plants underwater. Plants are often trimmed to obtain the desired shape, and they can be positioned by tying them in place inconspicuously with thread. Most serious aquascapers use aquarium-safe fertilizers, commonly in liquid or tablet form, to help the plants fill out more rapidly. Some aquarium substrates containing laterite also provide nutrients.\n\nIt is also necessary to support photosynthesis, by providing light and carbon dioxide. A variety of lighting systems may be used to produce the full spectrum of light, usually at 2–4 watts per gallon (0.5–1 watts per litre). Lights are usually controlled by a timer that allows the plants to be acclimated to a set cycle. Depending on the number of plants and fish, the aquascape may also require carbon dioxide supplementation. This can be accomplished with a simple homemade system, using a soda bottle filled with yeast, warm water, and sugar, and connected to an airstone in the aquarium, or with a pressurized CO tank that injects a set amount of carbon dioxide into the aquarium water.\n\nAlgae (including cyanobacteria, as well as true algae) is considered distracting and unwanted in aquascaping, and is controlled in several ways. One is the use of animals that consume algae, such as some fish (notably cyprinids of the genera \"Crossocheilus\" and \"Gyrinocheilus\", and catfish of the genera \"Ancistrus\", \"Hypostomus\", and \"Otocinclus\"), shrimp, or snails, to clean the algae that collects on the leaves. A second is using adequate light and CO to promote rapid growth of desired plants, while controlling nutrient levels, to ensure that the plants utilize all fertilizer without leaving nutrients to support algae.\n\nAlthough serious aquascapers often use a considerable amount of equipment to provide lighting, filtration, and CO supplementation to the tank, some hobbyists choose instead to maintain plants with a minimum of technology, and some have reported success in producing lush plant growth this way. This approach, sometimes called the \"natural planted tank\" and popularized by Diana Walstad, can include the use of soil in place of aquarium gravel, the elimination of CO apparatus and most filtration, and limited lighting. Instead, only a few fish are kept, to limit the quantity of fish waste, and the plants themselves are used to perform the water-cleansing role typically played by aquarium filters, by utilizing what fish waste there is as fertilizer.\n\nEarly Dutch hobbyists began the practice of aquascape contests, with over 100 local clubs. Judges had to go through about three years of training and pass examinations in multiple disciplines in order to qualify. This competition continues to be held every year, under the auspices of the National Aquarium Society. There are three rounds, beginning with contests in local clubs. First-place local winners are entered in the second round, held in fifteen \"districtkeuring\" (districts). The winners at that level are then entered in the third round, which is the national championship.\n\nIn the Dutch contest, the focus is not only on composition, but also on the biological well-being of the aquarium's inhabitants. Most points are, in fact, awarded for such biological criteria as fish health, plant health, and water quality. Unlike contests in other countries, the judges travel to each contestant's home to evaluate the tank, where they measure the water parameters themselves.\n\nThe Aquatic Gardeners Association, based in the United States, Aqua Design Amano, based in Japan, and AquaticScapers Europe, based in Germany, also conduct annual freshwater aquascaping contests. Entries from around the world are submitted as photographs and explanatory text online.\n\nThe Aquatic Gardeners Association contest is judged based on:\n\nThere are also smaller contests conducted by Acuavida in Spain, by the Greek Aquarist's Board, and by the French association Aquagora.\n\nLarge public aquariums sometimes use aquascaping as part of their displays. As early as the 1920s, the New York Aquarium included a moray eel display tank that was decorated with calcareous tufa rock, arranged to resemble a coral reef, and supporting some stony corals and sea fans. Because they typically present wildlife from a particular habitat, modern day displays are often created to be biologically accurate biotopes.\n\nThe following sites offer tutorials, images, and in-depth discussions on aquascaping styles and techniques:\nThese sites provide extensive non-commercial descriptions of aquatic plant species and their use in aquascaping:\n"}
{"id": "24231323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24231323", "title": "Bin Jiang", "text": "Bin Jiang\n\nBin Jiang is Professor in geographic information science, geographic information systems or geoinformatics at the University of Gävle, Sweden. He is affiliated to the Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm (KTH) through the KTH Research School at Gävle. He has been coordinating the Nordic Network in Geographic Information Science (NordGISci), and has organized a series of NordGISci summer schools for the Nordic young researchers. He is the founder and chair of the International Cartographic Association Commission on Geospatial Analysis and Modeling, and has established an ICA workshop series on the research topic. He is also an associate editor of the international journal: \"Computers, Environment and Urban Systems\" (Elsevier). He has developed the Head/tail Breaks a new classification for data with a heavy-tailed distribution.\n\nJiang obtained his bachelor's and master's degrees respectively from Wuhan University, formerly Wuhan Technical University of Surveying and Mapping, and Chinese Academy of Surveying and Mapping, Beijing, China. He took Doctorate in 1996 at the University of Utrecht and International Institute for Geo-Information Science and Earth Observation (ITC), the Netherlands.\n\nJiang joined the Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis (CASA), University College London as a senior research fellow in 1997, where he worked with Michael Batty for integrating space syntax into GIS. He developed Axwoman a plugin to ArcView GIS for urban morphological analysis (latest version 6.0 is based on ArcGIS). He proposed point-based space syntax, which is implemented in Axwoman 5.0. He proved that streets (either named streets or natural streets) are better than axial lines for predicating traffic flow and weighted PageRank is better indicator for traffic flow than local integration. Recently he has with his assistant developed AxialGen 1.0 for automating the axial lines for space syntax analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "25372489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25372489", "title": "Bukunzi", "text": "Bukunzi\n\nBukunzi, also known as Mbirizi, was a small kingdom located in the extreme southwest of what is now Rwanda. The kings of Bukunzi were renowned throughout the region for the legendary control of the rain. Located east of the Ruzizi River, Bukunzi was apparently founded by members of the Shi royal family, who fled into political exile following a family dispute. Luhwinja, another small polity, is thought to have emerged from Bukunzi. Located southeast of Lake Kivu, its historical ties were to the west with Bushi. Through the eighteenth and nineteenth century, it had close ties to Ngweshe, one of the most powerful of the Shi states. Bukunzi remained apart from the central Rwandan court until the military campaign led by colonial Belgium merged it into the central court in 1925, along with other small kingdoms located west of the Rwandan kingdom, such as Kingogo, Bushiru, and Busozo. The area of the former Bukunzi kingdom is now part of Rusizi District in Rwanda.\n\n"}
{"id": "39202883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39202883", "title": "Congo-Nile Divide (Rwanda-Burundi)", "text": "Congo-Nile Divide (Rwanda-Burundi)\n\nThe Congo-Nile Divide region of Rwanda and Burundi is a mountainous area in the southern section of the Congo-Nile Divide, to the east of the Albertine Rift.\nThe region includes the Nyungwe and Kibira national parks. The Bugoyi people live in the region.\n\nThe region of the divide is mountainous, with some peaks over high. Lake Kivu lies to the west of the mountains. The east of the divide slopes down to the central plateau of Rwanda, with elevations of .\n\nThe Congo-Nile Divide Trail runs through the area, ending on the Butare-Cyangugu road, about west of Uwinka. The Congo-Nile Divide Trail is long. Created in 2007, it runs along a ridge that forms part of the divide.\n\nThere are bracken fields, sedge marshes and open fields, and primary, secondary and bamboo forests. Flora include ericaceous shrub and wildflowers. A total of 1,344 plant species have been recorded, including 187 endemic species and 18 species in the threatened category (CR, EN, and VU under the IUCN Red List (2010)).\n\n123 mammal species are reported from the region, of which 19 are endemic and 14 are threatened. There has been large loss of animal species through poaching and hunting for bushmeat. Buffalo and elephants have been extirpated in the area. Chimpanzee, mountain monkey, owl-faced monkey, and more than 400 Angolan colobus have also been reported.\n\nReptiles are also reported to consist of 43 species, including 11 endemic species. The Divide is also a rich bird area with as many as 367 species reported, with 29 of them being endemic, and with seven species in the threatened category; some of the species of note are the Rwenzori turaco, red-collared mountain babbler and Kivu ground thrush.\n"}
{"id": "33657881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33657881", "title": "Contour trenching", "text": "Contour trenching\n\nContour trenching is an agricultural technique that can be easily applied in arid sub-Sahara areas to allow for water, and soil conservation, and to increase agricultural production.\n\nBetween two trenches crops can benefit during the growing season (when there is less rain) from the subsoil water reserve gathered during the rainy season.\n\nImmediate advantages are the following:\n\nTrenches can be artificially dug along the contour lines. Water flowing down the hill is retained by the trench, and is infiltrating the soil below.\n\nDepending on the slope of the hill, the parallel trenches can be closer or further from one another.\n\nManually dug trenches are smaller. Machine dug trenches can be deeper. The dimensions, and the format of the trench should correspond to the local climate and soil conditions. The trench should be big enough to keep all the water; no water should spoil over the downhill border. The upside of the trench should be protected against erosion, by means of e.g. grass, shrubs, or fabric.\n\n"}
{"id": "57214689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57214689", "title": "Denise Pumain", "text": "Denise Pumain\n\nDenise Pumain (born 1946) is a French geographer. Pumain specialises in urban and theoretical geography. She is a member of the Austrian Academy of Sciences and of the British Academy.\n\nPumain was born in 1946. She studied geography at the École Normale Supérieure between 1965 and 1969 and received her doctorate in human sciences and literature in 1980.\n\nShe began teaching at the Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne University in 1970. She became a researcher for the Institut national d'études démographiques in 1981 until 1986. In 1986, she became a Professor at the Paris 13 University before returning to the Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne University to teach in 1989. She also held the post of rector at the Académie de Grenoble between 2000 and 2001. In 1996, she founded the geography journal \"Cybergeo\".\n\nShe was awarded with a CNRS Bronze medal in 1984, decorated as a Chevalier of the Order of the Légion d'honneur in 1999 and decorated as an officer of the National Order of Merit in 2009. Pumain also became a member of the Academia Europaea in 1995, became a Corresponding Member of the Austrian Academy of Sciences in 2009 and became a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy in 2012. In 2010, she won the Vautrin Lud Prize and also received an Advanced Grant from the European Research Council to research different urban dynamics in cities across the world.\n"}
{"id": "214529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214529", "title": "Dependent territory", "text": "Dependent territory\n\nA dependent territory, dependent area or dependency is a territory that does not possess full political independence or sovereignty as a sovereign state yet remains politically outside the controlling state's integral area.\n\nA dependency is commonly distinguished from subnational entities in that they are not considered to be part of the integral territory of the governing state. A subnational entity typically represents a division of the state \"proper\", while a dependent territory often maintains a great degree of autonomy from the controlling state. Historically, most colonies were considered to be dependencies of their controlling state. The dependencies that remain generally maintain a very high degree of political autonomy. At the same time, not all autonomous entities are considered to be dependencies, and not all dependencies are autonomous. Most inhabited dependent territories have their own ISO 3166 country codes.\n\nSome political entities have a special position recognized by international treaty or agreement resulting in a certain level of autonomy or differences in immigration rules. These are sometimes considered dependencies, but are officially considered by their controlling states to be integral parts of the state. Examples are Åland (Finland) and Hong Kong (China).\n\nThe following listings indicate \"(or can be interpreted to indicate):\"\n\nThis list includes all territories that have not been legally incorporated into their governing state, including several territories that are not on the list of non-self-governing territories listed by the General Assembly of the United Nations. Dependency claims without general international recognition, including all claims in Antarctica, are listed in \"italics\".\n\n\"Summary:\" The Realm of New Zealand includes two self-governing states in free association with New Zealand, one territory (Tokelau), and a territorial claim in Antarctica.\n\n\"Summary:\" Norway has 1 dependent territory and \"2 dependency claims\".\n\n\"Summary:\" the United Kingdom has 12 Overseas Territories (10 autonomous, 1 restricted to military personnel and 1 uninhabited), 3 Crown dependencies (autonomous), 1 group of Sovereign Base Areas, and \"1 dependency claim\".\n\n\"Summary:\" the United States has 13 dependent territories and \"2 dependency claims\". The United States also has one incorporated territory.\n\nThe following entities are according to the law of their state, integral parts of the state, but exhibit many characteristics of dependent territories. This list is generally limited to entities which are either subject to an international treaty on their status, uninhabited, or have a unique level of autonomy and are largely self-governing in matters other than international affairs. As a result, it does not include most entities with no unique autonomy, such as the overseas regions of France, the Home Nations of the United Kingdom, or Alaska and Hawaii, or only limited unique autonomy, such as the Autonomous Regions of Portugal, autonomous communities of Spain, or Zanzibar. Dependency claims without general international recognition, including all claims in Antarctica, are listed in \"italics\".\n\n\"Summary:\" Australia has 6 territories in its administration and \"1 dependency claim\".\n\nAlthough all territories of Australia are considered to be fully integrated in its federative system, and the official status of an external territory does not differ largely from that of a mainland territory (except in regards to immigration law), debate remains as to whether the external territories are integral parts of Australia, due to their not being part of Australia in 1901, when its constituent states federated (with the exception of Coral Sea Islands which was part of Queensland). They are often listed separately for statistical purposes.\n\n\"Summary:\" China has 2 special administrative regions which are governed according to international treaties. The SARs greatly varies with mainland China in terms of administrative, economic, legislative and judiciary systems, including currency, left- and right-hand traffic, official languages and immigration affairs.\n\nThe Kingdom of Denmark contains 2 self-governing countries.\n\n\"Summary:\" Finland has 1 autonomous region, which is also subject to international treaties.\n\n\"Summary:\" France has 6 autonomous collectivities, and 2 uninhabited territories. This does not include the overseas regions (which are also overseas departments) of Réunion, Guadeloupe, Martinique, French Guiana, and Mayotte, which although also located overseas, have the same status as metropolitan France's regions. Nonetheless, all of France's overseas territory is considered to be an integral part of the French Republic.\n\n\"Summary:\" The Kingdom of the Netherlands consists of 3 Caribbean countries with autonomy in internal affairs, and one country—the Netherlands—with most of its area in Europe, except 3 municipalities also in the Caribbean. The 3 municipalities in the Caribbean—Bonaire, Saba and Sint Eustatius—are not listed as they are directly administered by the Government of the Netherlands. All Dutch citizens of the Kingdom share the same nationality and are thus citizens of the European Union.\n\n\"Summary:\" Norway has one internal territory with limited Norwegian sovereignty—Svalbard. It is part of the Kingdom of Norway, unlike the country's Antarctic dependent territory—Bouvet Island, and two dependency claims (see above).\n\n† Svalbard shares an ISO code with Jan Mayen, a remote uninhabited Norwegian island situated south west of the archipelago.\n\nThree Crown dependencies are in a form of association with the UK. They are independently administrated jurisdictions, although the British Government is solely responsible for defence and international representation, and has ultimate responsibility for ensuring good government. They do not have diplomatic recognition as independent states, but they are not an integrated part of the UK, nor do they form part of the European Union. The UK Parliament retains the ability to legislate for the Crown dependencies even without the agreement of the insular legislatures. None of the Crown dependencies has representatives in the UK Parliament. Bermuda and Gibraltar have similar relationships to the UK as the Crown dependencies. While Britain is officially responsible for defence and international representation, these jurisdictions maintain their own militaries and have been granted limited diplomatic powers, in addition to having internal self-government. Nevertheless, they are British Overseas Territories.\n\nNew Zealand and dependencies share the same Governor-General and constitute one realm. The Cook Islands and Niue are officially termed associated states.\n\nPuerto Rico (since 1952) and the Northern Mariana Islands (since 1986) are non-independent states freely associated with the United States.\nThe mutually negotiated Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) in Political Union with the United States was approved in 1976. The Covenant was fully implemented November 3, 1986, pursuant to Presidential Proclamation no. 5564, which conferred United States citizenship on legally qualified CNMI residents.\n\nUnder the Constitution of Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico is described as a Commonwealth and Puerto Ricans have a degree of administrative autonomy similar to citizens of a U.S. state. Puerto Ricans \"were collectively made U.S. citizens\" in 1917 as a result of the Jones-Shafroth Act. The commonly used name in Spanish of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, \"Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico\", literally \"Associated Free State of Puerto Rico\", which sounds similar to \"free association\" particularly when loosely used in Spanish, is sometimes erroneously interpreted to mean that Puerto Rico's relationship with United States is based on a Compact of Free Association and at other times erroneously held to mean that Puerto Rico's relationship with United States is based on an Interstate compact. This is a constant source of ambiguity and confusion when trying to define, understand and explain Puerto Rico's political relationship with the United States. For various reasons Puerto Rico's political status differs from that of the Pacific Islands that entered into Compacts of Free Association with the United States. As sovereign states, these islands have full right to conduct their own foreign relations, while the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico has territorial status subject to United States congressional authority under the Constitution's Territory Clause, \"to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory… belonging to the United States.\". Puerto Rico does not have the right to unilaterally declare independence, and at the last referendum (1998) the narrow majority voted for \"none of the above\", which was a formally undefined alternative used by commonwealth supporters to express their desire for an \"enhanced commonwealth\" option.\n\nThis kind of relationship also can be found in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which is a federacy. The continental part is organized like a unitary state but the status of its territories (Aruba, since 1986, and the Netherlands Antilles, since 1954 until 2010) can be considered dependencies or \"associated non-independent states\". After the split-up of the Netherlands Antilles, Curaçao and Sint Maarten are separate associated states like Aruba.\n\nAdditionally, Denmark operates in a similar manner to a federacy. The Faroes and Greenland are two self-governing territories, or regions within the Kingdom. The relationship between Denmark proper and the two territories is semi-officially termed the \"Rigsfællesskabet\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55550371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55550371", "title": "Dépôt de la Guerre", "text": "Dépôt de la Guerre\n\nThe Dépôt de la Guerre was France's military archive and cartography department, set up in 1688 under Louis XIV and expanded during the French Revolutionary Wars and the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nEstablished by François Michel Le Tellier de Louvois, it was put in charge of gathering, conserving, engraving and publishing historical archives, military memoirs, maps and plans and all topographic activity. In the 18th century lieutenant-general Vault played a notable part in the Dépôt's work.\nEffectively dissolved during the early years of the French Revolution thanks to a decision by the Constituent Assembly to suppress the military geographical-engineers corps, it was reestablished by Étienne Nicolas de Calon between April 1793 and May 1797, under the new name \"Dépôt général de la Guerre et de la Géographie\" (in full, \"Dépôt général de la Guerre de terre et de mer et de la Géographie\") - this underlined the military importance of creating maps and keeping them up to date. However, the staff provided for it were insufficient for its initial ambitions - a large part of its personnel shifted to the Bureau des longitudes and the Service hydrologique de la Marine.\n\nPierre Dupont de l'Étang was briefly put in charge of the Dépôt from May to September 1797, followed by Jean Ernouf from September 1797 to October 1798 and Hugues Alexandre Joseph Meunier until December 1799. Under the First French Empire it was headed by Henri Jacques Guillaume Clarke from December 1799 to September 1800, Antoine François Andréossy from August 1802 to May 1803, Nicolas Antoine Sanson from June 1803 to June 1805. It flourished during this period, employing 90 geographical engineers and a huge archive of documents, mapping the Cisalpine Republic, Liguria and the newly-annexed Cisrhenian Republic among others. The corps of engineer geographers was definitively recreated in January 1909.\n\nRéorganisé en 1814, puis en 1823, il est supprimé en 1887, où il est scindé en deux organismes distincts :\n\nLes archives du Dépôt de la Guerre sont consultables au SHD, site Château de Vincennes, Avenue de Paris à Vincennes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47802272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47802272", "title": "Edgelands", "text": "Edgelands\n\nEdgelands are the transitional, liminal areas of space to be found on the boundaries of country and town - with the spread of urbanisation, an increasingly important facet of the twenty-first century world.\n\nThe concept of Edgelands was introduced by Marion Shoard in 2002, to cover the disorganised but often fertile hinterland between planned town and over-managed country. However a century and a half earlier, Victor Hugo had already highlighted the existence of what he called \"bastard countryside...ugly but bizarre, made up of two different natures, which surrounds certain great cities\"; while Richard Jeffries similarly explored the London edgeland in \"Nature near London\" (1883).\nAlice Coleman (Kings College London, dept geography) in 2nd Land Use Survey of Great Britain, refers to \"rurban fringe\". Indicating a similar landscape but with negative overtones.\n\nNevertheless it was only in the last decades of the twentieth century - as a distinct realm of Nature increasingly disappeared beneath the commodifying impact of globalising late capitalism - that the significance of the unstructured borderlands between organised town and organised country, part man-made, part natural, both for wildlife and for human exploration, came into fuller focus. Psychogeography charted the London orbital, while bombsites, canal banks and brownfield sites were documented in poetry and prose, film and photography; and the borderlands as an untapped, transgressive resource became almost the object of a new cult.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21954724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21954724", "title": "European grid", "text": "European grid\n\nThe European grid is a proposed, multipurpose Pan-European mapping standard. It is based on the ETRS89 Lambert Azimuthal Equal-Area projection coordinate reference system, with the centre of the projection at the point 52° N, 10° E and false easting: x0 = 4321000 m, false northing: y0 = 3210000 m (CRS identifier in Inspire: ETRS89-LAEA).\nThe grid is designated as Grid_ETRS89-LAEA5210. For identification of an individual resolution level, the name is extended by identification of cell size in metres (example: _100K).\n\nThe origin of Grid_ETRS89-LAEA5210 coincides with the false origin of the ETRS89-LAEA coordinate reference system (x=0, y=0). Grid points of grids based on ETRS89-LAEA must coincide with grid points at Grid_ETRS89-LAEA5210.\n\nThe grid is defined as hierarchical one in metric coordinates in power of 10.\nThe resolution of the grid is 1m, 10m, 100m, 1000m, 10,000m, 100,000m.\nThe grid orientation is south-north, west-east.\nThe reference point of the grid cell for grids based on ETRS89-LAEA is the lower left corner of the grid cell.\n\nETRS89\nLambert Azimuthal Equal-Area projection\n\n"}
{"id": "5330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5330", "title": "Geography of Chad", "text": "Geography of Chad\n\nChad is one of the 48 land-locked countries in the world and is located in North Central Africa, measuring , nearly twice the size of France and slightly more than three times the size of California. Most of its ethnically and linguistically diverse population lives in the south, with densities ranging from 54 persons per square kilometer in the Logone River basin to 0.1 persons in the northern B.E.T. (Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti) desert region, which itself is larger than France. The capital city of N'Djaména, situated at the confluence of the Chari and Logone Rivers, is cosmopolitan in nature, with a current population in excess of 700,000 people. \n\nChad has four bioclimatic zones. The northernmost Saharan zone averages less than of rainfall annually. The sparse human population is largely nomadic, with some livestock, mostly small ruminants and camels. The central Sahelian zone receives between rainfall and has vegetation ranging from grass/shrub steppe to thorny, open savanna. The southern zone, often referred to as the Sudan zone, receives between , with woodland savanna and deciduous forests for vegetation. Rainfall in the Guinea zone, located in Chad's southwestern tip, ranges between .\n\nThe country's topography is generally flat, with the elevation gradually rising as one moves north and east away from Lake Chad. The highest point in Chad is Emi Koussi, a mountain that rises in the northern Tibesti Mountains. The Ennedi Plateau and the Ouaddaï highlands in the east complete the image of a gradually sloping basin, which descends towards Lake Chad. There are also central highlands in the Guera region rising to .\n\nLake Chad is the second largest lake in west Africa and is one of the most important wetlands on the continent. Home to 120 species of fish and at least that many species of birds, the lake has shrunk dramatically in the last four decades due to increased water usage from an expanding population and low rainfall. Bordered by Chad, Niger, Nigeria, and Cameroon, Lake Chad currently covers only 1350 square kilometers, down from 25,000 square kilometers in 1963. The Chari and Logone Rivers, both of which originate in the Central African Republic and flow northward, provide most of the surface water entering Lake Chad. Chad is also next to Niger. \n\nLocated in north-central Africa, Chad stretches for about 1,800 kilometers from its northernmost point to its southern boundary. Except in the far northwest and south, where its borders converge, Chad's average width is about 800 kilometers. Its area of 1,284,000 square kilometers is roughly equal to the combined areas of Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Nevada, and Arizona. Chad's neighbors include Libya to the north, Niger and Nigeria to the west, Sudan to the east, Central African Republic to the south, and Cameroon to the southwest.\n\nChad exhibits two striking geographical characteristics. First, the country is landlocked. N'Djamena, the capital, is located more than 1,100 kilometers northeast of the Atlantic Ocean; Abéché, a major city in the east, lies 2,650 kilometers from the Red Sea; and Faya-Largeau, a much smaller but strategically important center in the north, is in the middle of the Sahara Desert, 1,550 kilometers from the Mediterranean Sea. These vast distances from the sea have had a profound impact on Chad's historical and contemporary development.\n\nThe second noteworthy characteristic is that the country borders on very different parts of the African continent: North Africa, with its Islamic culture and economic orientation toward the Mediterranean Basin and West Africa, with its diverse religions and cultures and its history of highly developed states and regional economies;\n\nChad also borders Northeast Africa, oriented toward the Nile Valley and the Red Sea region - and Central or Equatorial Africa, some of whose people have retained classical African religions while others have adopted Christianity, and whose economies were part of the great Congo River system. Although much of Chad's distinctiveness comes from this diversity of influences, since independence the diversity has also been an obstacle to the creation of a national identity.\n\nAlthough Chadian society is economically, socially, and culturally fragmented, the country's geography is unified by the Lake Chad Basin. Once a huge inland sea (the Pale-Chadian Sea) whose only remnant is shallow Lake Chad, this vast depression extends west into Nigeria and Niger. The larger, northern portion of the basin is bounded within Chad by the Tibesti Mountains in the northwest, the Ennedi Plateau in the northeast, the Ouaddaï Highlands in the east along the border with Sudan, the Guéra Massif in central Chad, and the Mandara Mountains along Chad's southwestern border with Cameroon. The smaller, southern part of the basin falls almost exclusively in Chad. It is delimited in the north by the Guéra Massif, in the south by highlands 250 kilometers south of the border with Central African Republic, and in the southwest by the Mandara Mountains.\n\nLake Chad, located in the southwestern part of the basin at an altitude of 282 meters, surprisingly does not mark the basin's lowest point; instead, this is found in the Bodele and Djourab regions in the north-central and northeastern parts of the country, respectively. This oddity arises because the great stationary dunes (ergs) of the Kanem region create a dam, preventing lake waters from flowing to the basin's lowest point. At various times in the past, and as late as the 1870s, the Bahr el Ghazal Depression, which extends from the northeastern part of the lake to the Djourab, acted as an overflow canal; since independence, climatic conditions have made overflows impossible.\n\nNorth and northeast of Lake Chad, the basin extends for more than 800 kilometers, passing through regions characterized by great rolling dunes separated by very deep depressions. Although vegetation holds the dunes in place in the Kanem region, farther north they are bare and have a fluid, rippling character. From its low point in the Djourab, the basin then rises to the plateaus and peaks of the Tibesti Mountains in the north. The summit of this formation—as well as the highest point in the Sahara Desert—is Emi Koussi, a dormant volcano that reaches 3,414 meters above sea level.\n\nThe basin's northeastern limit is the Ennedi Plateau, whose limestone bed rises in steps etched by erosion. East of the lake, the basin rises gradually to the Ouaddaï Highlands, which mark Chad's eastern border and also divide the Chad and Nile watersheds. These highland areas are part of the East Saharan montane xeric woodlands ecoregion.\n\nSoutheast of Lake Chad, the regular contours of the terrain are broken by the Guéra Massif, which divides the basin into its northern and southern parts. South of the lake lie the floodplains of the Chari and Logone rivers, much of which are inundated during the rainy season. Farther south, the basin floor slopes upward, forming a series of low sand and clay plateaus, called koros, which eventually climb to 615 meters above sea level. South of the Chadian border, the koros divide the Lake Chad Basin from the Ubangi-Zaire river system.\n\nPermanent streams do not exist in northern or central Chad. Following infrequent rains in the Ennedi Plateau and Ouaddaï Highlands, water may flow through depressions called enneris and wadis. Often the result of flash floods, such streams usually dry out within a few days as the remaining puddles seep into the sandy clay soil. The most important of these streams is the Batha, which in the rainy season carries water west from the Ouaddaï Highlands and the Guéra Massif to Lake Fitri.\n\nChad's major rivers are the Chari and the Logone and their tributaries, which flow from the southeast into Lake Chad. Both river systems rise in the highlands of Central African Republic and Cameroon, regions that receive more than 1,250 millimeters of rainfall annually. Fed by rivers of Central African Republic, as well as by the Bahr Salamat, Bahr Aouk, and Bahr Sara rivers of southeastern Chad, the Chari River is about 1,200 kilometers long. From its origins near the city of Sarh, the middle course of the Chari makes its way through swampy terrain; the lower Chari is joined by the Logone River near N'Djamena. The Chari's volume varies greatly, from 17 cubic meters per second during the dry season to 340 cubic meters per second during the wettest part of the year.\n\nThe Logone River is formed by tributaries flowing from Cameroon and Central African Republic. Both shorter and smaller in volume than the Chari, it flows northeast for 960 kilometers; its volume ranges from five to eighty-five cubic meters per second. At N'Djamena the Logone empties into the Chari, and the combined rivers flow together for thirty kilometers through a large delta and into Lake Chad. At the end of the rainy season in the fall, the river overflows its banks and creates a huge floodplain in the delta.\n\nThe seventh largest lake in the world (and the fourth largest in Africa), Lake Chad is located in the sahelian zone, a region just south of the Sahara Desert. The Chari River contributes 95 percent of Lake Chad's water, an average annual volume of 40 billion cubic meters, 95% of which is lost to evaporation. The size of the lake is determined by rains in the southern highlands bordering the basin and by temperatures in the Sahel. Fluctuations in both cause the lake to change dramatically in size, from 9,800 square kilometers in the dry season to 25,500 at the end of the rainy season.\n\nLake Chad also changes greatly in size from one year to another. In 1870 its maximum area was 28,000 square kilometers. The measurement dropped to 12,700 in 1908. In the 1940s and 1950s, the lake remained small, but it grew again to 26,000 square kilometers in 1963. The droughts of the late 1960s, early 1970s, and mid-1980s caused Lake Chad to shrink once again, however. The only other lakes of importance in Chad are Lake Fitri, in Batha Prefecture, and Lake Iro, in the marshy southeast.\n\nThe Lake Chad Basin embraces a great range of tropical climates from north to south, although most of these climates tend to be dry. Apart from the far north, most regions are characterized by a cycle of alternating rainy and dry seasons. In any given year, the duration of each season is determined largely by the positions of two great air masses—a maritime mass over the Atlantic Ocean to the southwest and a much drier continental mass.\n\nDuring the rainy season, winds from the southwest push the moister maritime system north over the African continent where it meets and slips under the continental mass along a front called the \"intertropical convergence zone\". At the height of the rainy season, the front may reach as far as Kanem Prefecture. By the middle of the dry season, the intertropical convergence zone moves south of Chad, taking the rain with it. This weather system contributes to the formation of three major regions of climate and vegetation.\n\nThe Saharan region covers roughly the northern half of the country, including Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti Prefecture along with the northern parts of Kanem, Batha, and Biltine prefectures. Much of this area receives only traces of rain during the entire year; at Faya Largeau, for example, annual rainfall averages less than . Scattered small oases and occasional wells provide water for a few date palms or small plots of millet and garden crops.\n\nIn much of the north, the average daily maximum temperature is about during January, the coolest month of the year, and about during May, the hottest month. On occasion, strong winds from the northeast produce violent sandstorms. In northern Biltine Prefecture, a region called the Mortcha plays a major role in animal husbandry. Dry for nine months of the year, it receives or more of rain, mostly during July and August.\n\nA carpet of green springs from the desert during this brief wet season, attracting herders from throughout the region who come to pasture their cattle and camels. Because very few wells and springs have water throughout the year, the herders leave with the end of the rains, turning over the land to the antelopes, gazelles, and ostriches that can survive with little groundwater. Northern Chad averages over 3500 hours of sunlight per year, the south somewhat less.\n\nThe semiarid sahelian zone, or Sahel, forms a belt about wide that runs from Lac and Chari-Baguirmi prefectures eastward through Guéra, Ouaddaï, and northern Salamat prefectures to the Sudanese frontier. The climate in this transition zone between the desert and the southern soudanian zone is divided into a rainy season (from June to early September) and a dry period (from October to May).\n\nIn the northern Sahel, thorny shrubs and acacia trees grow wild, while date palms, cereals, and garden crops are raised in scattered oases. Outside these settlements, nomads tend their flocks during the rainy season, moving southward as forage and surface water disappear with the onset of the dry part of the year. The central Sahel is characterized by drought-resistant grasses and small woods. Rainfall is more abundant there than in the Saharan region. For example, N'Djamena records a maximum annual average rainfall of , while Ouaddaï Prefecture receives just a bit less.\n\nDuring the hot season, in April and May, maximum temperatures frequently rise above . In the southern part of the Sahel, rainfall is sufficient to permit crop production on unirrigated land, and millet and sorghum are grown. Agriculture is also common in the marshlands east of Lake Chad and near swamps or wells. Many farmers in the region combine subsistence agriculture with the raising of cattle, sheep, goats, and poultry.\n\nThe humid \"soudanian\" zone includes the southern prefectures of Mayo-Kebbi, Tandjilé, Logone Occidental, Logone Oriental, Moyen-Chari, and southern Salamat. Between April and October, the rainy season brings between of precipitation. Temperatures are high throughout the year. Daytime readings in Moundou, the major city in the southwest, range from in the middle of the cool season in January to about in the hot months of March, April, and May.\n\nThe soudanian region is predominantly East Sudanian savanna, or plains covered with a mixture of tropical or subtropical grasses and woodlands. The growth is lush during the rainy season but turns brown and dormant during the five-month dry season between November and March. Over a large part of the region, however, natural vegetation has yielded to agriculture.\n\nOn 22 June, the temperature reached in Faya, breaking a record set in 1961 at the same location. Similar temperature rises were also reported in Niger, which began to enter a famine situation.\n\nOn 26 July the heat reached near-record levels over Chad and Niger.\n\nArea:\n<br>\"total:\"\n1.284 million km²\n<br>\"land:\"\n1,259,200 km²\n<br>\"water:\"\n24,800 km²\n\nArea - comparative:\n<br>Canada: smaller than the Northwest Territories\n<br>US: slightly more than three times the size of California\n\nLand boundaries:\n<br>\"total:\"\n6,406 km\n<br>\"border countries:\"\nCameroon 1,116 km, Central African Republic 1,556 km, Libya 1,050 km, Niger 1,196 km, Nigeria 85 km, Sudan 1,403 km\n\nCoastline:\n0 km (landlocked)\n\nMaritime claims:\nnone (landlocked)\n\nElevation extremes:\n<br>\"lowest point:\"\nDjourab Depression 160 m\n<br>\"highest point:'\nEmi Koussi 3,415 m\n\nNatural resources:\npetroleum, uranium, natron, kaolin, fish (Chari River, Logone River), gold, limestone, sand and gravel, salt\n\nLand use:\n<br>\"arable land:\"\n3.89%\n<br>\"permanent crops:\"\n0.03%\n<br>\"other:\"\n96.08% (2012)\n\nIrrigated land:\n302.7 km² (2003)\n\nTotal renewable water resources:\n43 km (2011)\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):\n<br>\"total:\"\n0.88 km/yr (12%/12%/76%)\n<br>\"per capita:\"\n84.81 m/yr (2005)\n\nNatural hazards:\nhot, dry, dusty, Harmattan winds occur in north; periodic droughts; locust plagues\n\nEnvironment - current issues:\ninadequate supplies of potable water; improper waste disposal in rural areas contributes to soil and water pollution; desertification\n\nAlso see- 2010 Sahel drought\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Chad, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\"*Note: technically Chad does not have an easternmost point, the northern section of the border being formed by the 24° of longitude\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57612", "title": "Geography of Norway", "text": "Geography of Norway\n\nNorway is a country located in Northern Europe on the western and northern part of the Scandinavian Peninsula, bordering the North Sea to the southwest and the Skagerrak inlet to the south, the North Atlantic Ocean (Norwegian Sea) in the west and the Barents Sea to the northeast. Norway has a long land border with Sweden to the east, a shorter one with Finland in the northeast and a still shorter border with Russia in the far northeast.\n\nNorway has a very elongated shape, one of the longest and most rugged coastlines in the world, and some 50,000 islands off the extremely indented coastline. Mainland Norway (\"Fastlands-Norge\") covers 13° latitude, from 58°N to more than 71°N, (Svalbard north to 81°N), and covers the longitude from 5°E in Solund to 31°E in Vardø (Jan Mayen to 9°W, Kvitøya to 33°E).\n\nNorway is one of the world's most northerly countries, and one of Europe's most mountainous countries with large areas dominated by the Scandinavian Mountains; average elevation is and 32% of the mainland is located above the tree line.\n\nThe country-length chain of peaks is geologically continuous with the mountains of Scotland, Ireland and, crossing the Atlantic Ocean, the Appalachian Mountains of North America. Geologists hold that all these formed a single range prior to the breakup of the ancient supercontinent Pangaea. \n\nVirtually the entire country was covered with a thick ice sheet during the last ice age, as well as in many earlier ice ages. The movement of the ice carved out deep valleys, and when the ice melted, the sea filled many of these valleys, creating Norway's famous fjords. The land is still rebounding from the enormous weight of the ice (isostatic rebound), \"growing out of the sea\" several millimeters a year. Rebound is greatest in the eastern part of the country and the inner part of the long fjords, where the ice cover was thickest. This is a slow process, and for thousands of years following the end of the ice age, the sea covered substantial areas of what is today dry land. The sea reached what is today an elevation of 221 m in Oslo (Aker), 25 m in Stavanger, 5 m near Stad, 180 m in Trondheim, 50 m in Tromsø and 75 m in Kirkenes. This old seabed is now among the best agricultural land in the country.\n\nThe glaciers in the higher mountain areas today are not remnants of the large ice sheet of the ice age, their origins are more recent. The regional climate was up to warmer in 7000 BC to 3000 BC in the Holocene climatic optimum, (relative to the 1961-90 period), melting the remaining glaciers in the mountains almost completely during that period.\n\nAs a result of the ice carving, Sognefjorden is the world's second deepest fjord and Hornindalsvatnet is the deepest lake in Europe.\nGeographic coordinates: \n\nMap references: Europe\n\nArea:\n\"total:\" \n\"land:\" \n\"water:\" \n\"With Svalbard and Jan Mayen included:\" \n\nArea - comparative:\nThe contiguous area is slightly smaller than Vietnam and slightly larger than New Mexico.\nWith Svalbard and Jan Mayen included, the area is slightly larger than Japan.\n\nLand boundaries:\n\"total:\" \n\"border countries:\" Finland ; Sweden ; Russia .\n\nCoastline: continental ; including islands  \n\nMaritime claims:\n\"contiguous zone:\" \n\"continental shelf:\" \n\"exclusive economic zone:\" \n\"territorial sea:\" \n\nScandinavian Mountains: the Scandinavian Mountains are the most defining feature of the country. Starting with Setesdalsheiene north of the southern Skagerrak coast, the mountains go north, comprising large parts of the country, and intersected by the many fjords of Vestlandet. This part includes Hardangervidda, Jotunheimen (with Galdhøpiggen at 2469 m a.s.l.), Sognefjell and Trollheimen in the north, with large glaciers, such as Jostedalsbreen, Folgefonna and Hardangerjøkulen. The mountain chain swings eastwards south of Trondheim, with ranges such as Dovrefjell and Rondane, and reaches to the border with Sweden, where they are mostly gently sloping plateaus. The mountains then follows the border in a northeasterly direction (known as Kjølen). The mountains are intersected by many fjords in Nordland and Troms, where they become more alpine and creates many islands as they meet the sea. The Scandinavian mountains forms the Lyngen Alps and reaches into northwestern Finnmark, gradually becoming lower from Altafjord towards Nordkapp (North Cape), where they finally ends at the shores of the Barents Sea.\n\nThe Scandinavian Mountains have naturally divided the country in physical regions; valleys radiate from the mountains in all directions. The following physical regions will only partially correspond to traditional regions and counties in Norway.\nSouthern coast: the southern Skagerrak and North Sea coast is the lowland south of the mountain range, from Stavanger in the west to the western reaches of the outer part of the Oslofjord in the east. In this part of the country, valleys tend to follow a north–south direction. This area is mostly a hilly area, but with some very flat areas such as Lista and Jæren.\n\nSoutheast: the land east of the mountains (corresponding to Østlandet, most of Telemark and Røros) is dominated by valleys going in a north–south direction in the eastern part, and a more northwest - southeast direction further west, and the valleys congregate on the Oslofjord. The longest valleys in the country are Østerdal and Gudbrandsdal. This part also contains larger areas of lowland surrounding the Oslofjord, as well as the Glomma river and lake Mjøsa.\nWestern fjords: the land west of the mountains (corresponding to Vestlandet north of Stavanger) is more dominated by the mountain chain, as the mountains goes all the way to the coast, albeit gradually becoming lower towards the coast. This part is dominated by large fjords, the largest are Sognefjord and Hardangerfjord. Geirangerfjord is often regarded as the ultimate fjord scenery. The coast is protected by a chain of skerries (the Skjærgård) arranged to parallel the coast and provide the beginning of a protected passage almost the entire 1,600 km route from Stavanger to Nordkapp. The fjords and most valleys generally goes in a west–east direction, and further north a more northwest - southeast direction.\n\nTrondheim region: the land north of Dovre (corresponding to Trøndelag except Røros) comprises a more gentle landscape with more rounded shapes and mountains, and with valleys congregating on the Trondheimsfjord, where they open up and forms a larger lowland area. Further north is the valley of Namdalen, opening up in the Namsos area. However, the Fosen peninsula, and the most northern coast (Leka) is more dominated by mountains and more narrow valleys.\n\nNorthern fjords: the land further north (corresponding to Nordland, Troms and northwestern Finnmark) is again more dominated by pointed mountains going all the way to the coast, and numerous fjords. The fjords and valleys generally lie in a west–east direction in the southern part of this area, and a more northwest - southeast direction further north. The Saltfjellet mountain range is an exception, as the valleys goes in a more north–south direction from these mountains. This long area comprises many large islands, including Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja.\n\nFar northeast: the interior and the coast east of Nordkapp (corresponding to Finnmarksvidda and eastern Finnmark) is less dominated by mountains, and is mostly below . The interior is dominated by the large Finnmarksvidda plateau. There are large, wide fjords going in a north–south direction. This coast lacks the small islands forming the skerries so typical of the Norwegian coast. Furthest to the east, the Varangerfjord goes in an east–west direction, and is the only large fjord in the country opening up towards the east.\n\nSvalbard: further north, in the Arctic ocean, lies the Svalbard archipelago, which is also dominated by mountains, but these mountains are mostly covered by large glaciers, especially the eastern part of the archipelago, where glaciers cover more than 90%; Austfonna is the largest glacier in Europe. Unlike the mainland, these glaciers calves directly in the open ocean.\n\nJan Mayen: to the far northwest, halfway towards Greenland, is the island Jan Mayen, where Beerenberg is found, the only active volcano in Norway.\n\nBouvet Island: located in the South Atlantic Ocean at 54°S and mostly covered by glaciers, this island is one of the most remote islands in the world, inhabited only by seals and birds.\n\nPeter I Island: this island in the South Pacific Ocean at 69°S, 90°W is dominated by glaciers and a volcano. As with Bouvet Island, this island is regarded as an external dependency, and not part of the kingdom.\n\nQueen Maud Land is Norway's claim in Antarctica. This large, sectorial area stretches to the South Pole and are completely dominated by the world's largest ice sheet, but with some impressive nunataks penetrating above the ice. The Troll Research Station manned by Norway is located on a snow free mountain slope, the only station in Antarctica not to be located on the ice.\n\nAreas in Norway located north of the Arctic Circle will have midnight sun and corresponding winter darkness, the length of both depends on the latitude. In Longyearbyen, the upper part of the sun disc is above the horizon (provided clear view against the northern horizon) from 19 April to 23 August, and the winter darkness lasts from 27 October – 14 February. The corresponding dates for Tromsø are 17 May – 25 July, and 26 November – 15 January. The winter darkness is not totally dark on the mainland; there is twilight for a few hours around noon in Tromsø, but in Longyearbyen there is near total darkness in the midst of the dark period. Even the southern part of the country experiences large seasonal variations in daylight; in Oslo the sun rises at 03:54 and sets 22:54 at summer solstice, but is only above the horizon from 09:18 - 15:12 at winter solstice.\n\nThe northern part of the country is located in the aurora borealis zone; the aurora is occasionally seen in the southern part of the country.\n\nNorway uses Central European Time, corresponding to the 15°E longitude. As the country is very elongated, this is at odds with the local daylight hours at the eastern and western parts. In Vardø the local daylight hours is 64 minutes earlier, and in Bergen it is 39 minutes later. Thus, Finnmark gains early morning daylight but loses evening daylight, and Vestlandet loses early morning light but gains more evening daylight with this timezone. Daylight saving time (GMT + 2) is observed from the last Sunday in March to the last Sunday in October.\n\nThe difference between low tide and high tide is small on the southern coast and large in the north; ranging from on average 0.17 m in Mandal to about 0.30 m in Oslo and Stavanger, 0.90 m in Bergen, 1.80 m in Trondheim, Bodø and Hammerfest and as much as 2.17 m in Vadsø.\n\nThe climate of Norway is much more temperate than expected for such high latitudes; this is mainly due to the North Atlantic Current with its extension, the Norwegian Current, raising the air temperature, and the prevailing southwesterlies bringing the mild air on shore, as well as the general southwest - northeast orientation of the coast allowing the westerlies to penetrate into the Arctic. The January average in Brønnøysund is warmer than the January average in Nome, Alaska, even though both towns are situated on the west coast of the continents at 65°N. In July, the difference is reduced to . January average in Yakutsk, situated inland in Siberia but slightly further south, is colder than in Brønnøysund.\n\nSome areas of Vestlandet and southern Nordland are Europe's wettest due to orographic lift, particularly where the moist westerlies first are intercepted by high mountains; this occurs slightly inland from the outer skerry guard. Brekke in Sogn og Fjordane has the highest annual precipitation with ; annual precipitation can exceed in mountain areas near the coast. Lurøy, near the Arctic Circle, gets 2,935 mm on average, a remarkable amount of precipitation for a polar location. Precipitation is heaviest in autumn and early winter along the coast, while April to June is the driest. The innermost parts of the long fjords are somewhat drier; annual precipitation in Lærdal is , in Levanger and only in Skibotn at the head of Lyngenfjord, the latter also has the national record for clear-weather days. The regions to the east of the mountains (including Oslo) have a more continental climate with less precipitation, and enjoy more sunshine and usually warmer summers; precipitation is highest in summer and early autumn (often brief, heavy showers) while winter and spring tend to be driest inland. Valleys surrounded by mountains can be very dry compared to nearby areas, and a larger area in the interior of Finnmark gets less than of precipitation annually. Svalbard Airport has the lowest average annual precipitation with , while Skjåk has the lowest average on the mainland with only , the lowest ever recorded on the mainland is at Hjerkinn in Dovre. Monthly averages varies from in April in Skjåk to in September in Brekke. Coastal areas from Lindesnes north to Vardø have more than 200 days/year with precipitation; however, this is with a very low threshold value (0.1 mm precipitation). The average annual number of days with at least precipitation is 77 in Blindern/Oslo, 96 in Kjevik/Kristiansand, 158 in Florida/Bergen, 93 in Værnes/Trondheim and 109 in Tromsø.\n\nThe coast experiences much milder winters than other areas at the same latitudes. The temperature difference from the coldest month to the warmest is only in coastal areas; some lighthouses have a yearly amplitude of just , such as Svinøy in Herøy with a coldest month of . The amplitude of inland areas are larger, with a maximum difference of in Karasjok. Finnmarksvidda has the coldest winters in mainland Norway, but inland areas much further south can also see severe cold; Røros has recorded and Tynset has a January average .\nThe islands in southern Lofoten are the most northerly locations in the world where all winter months have mean temperatures above . Spring is the season when the temperature differences between the southern and northern part of the country is largest; this is also the time of year when daytime and nighttime temperatures differ the most. Inland valleys and the innermost fjord areas have less wind and see the warmest summer days; the Oslofjord lowland is warmest with 24 July-hr average of , but even Alta at 70°N has July average of , and commercial fruit orchards are common in the innermost areas of the western fjords, but also in Telemark. Inland areas reach their warmth peak around mid-July, and coastal areas by the first half of August. Humidity is usually low in summer.\n\nThe North Atlantic Current splits in two in the northern part of the Norwegian Sea; one branch goes east into the Barents Sea, while the other goes north along the west coast of Spitsbergen; this modifies the Arctic polar climate somewhat and results in open water throughout the year at higher latitudes than any other place in the Arctic. On the eastern coast of the Svalbard archipelago, the sea used to be frozen during most of the year, but the last years warming (graph) have seen open waters noticeably longer.\n\nNormal monthly averages range from in January in Karasjok amsl to in July in Oslo - Studenterlunden amsl. The warmest yearly average temperature is in Skudeneshavn in Karmøy, and the coldest is in Sihcajarvi in Kautokeino (excluding higher mountains and Svalbard); this is a difference, about the same as the temperature difference between Skudeneshavn and Athens, Greece.\n\nThe warmest temperature ever recorded in Norway is in Nesbyen. The coldest temperature ever recorded is in Karasjok. The warmest month on record was July 1901 in Oslo, with a mean (24-hr) of , and the coldest month was February 1966 in Karasjok with a mean of . Southwesterly winds further warmed by foehn can give warm temperatures in narrow fjords in winter; Tafjord has recorded in January and Sunndal in February.\n\nCompared to coastal areas, inland valleys and the innermost fjord areas have larger diurnal temperature variation, especially in spring and summer. In July, the average daily high temperature is in Lærdal and in Karasjok, roughly warmer than coastal locations at the same latitude (see table).\n\nAs seen from the table, Norway's climate shows large variations, but with the exception of a small area along the northeastern coast in Finnmark, all areas below the treeline (populated areas) of the Norwegian mainland has a temperate or subarctic climate (Köppen groups C and D). Svalbard and Jan Mayen have polar climate (Köppen group E). More specifically, the climate is maritime mild temperate / marine west coast (Köppen: Cfb) along the southwestern and part of the southern coast as in Bergen and Kristiansand; hemiboreal / humid continental (Dfb) in the lowlands in the southeast as in Oslo; cool maritime/subpolar oceanic (Cfc) along the northwestern coastal areas as in Svolvær; continental subarctic climate (Dfc) in inland valleys and highlands below the treeline in much of the country and reaching to the coast in the northernmost part as seen in Geilo, Bardufoss and Kirkenes; alpine tundra climate above the treeline in mountain areas all over the country as seen in Dovrefjell and Sognefjell. Polar tundra (ET) is found at Jan Mayen and in the Svalbard archipelago including Longyearbyen, and also includes a narrow area along the northeastern coast from Nordkapp to Vardø on the mainland. True ice cap climate (EF) can only be found at elevations higher than approximately 400–800 m in Svalbard and Jan Mayen, with the lowest temperatures on Nordaustlandet.\n\nTemperatures have tended to be higher in recent years, which may be a consequence of global warming. Using the same data source but with the more recent 20-year period 1991-2010 as base period, this results in winter temperatures for the same stations that are higher, while 24 July-hr average temperatures increases by approximately 1 °C. For Blindern/Oslo, the 1991-2010 period gives a January average of and a 24 July-hour average of . For Bergen the corresponding temperatures are , for Værnes/Trondheim , and for Langnes/Tromsø . Compared to the 1961-90 period, a much larger area along the coast, from Kristiansand north to Svolvær, have average temperatures above freezing all year.\n\nAs a consequence of warming, summers last longer and winters are getting shorter; snow cover have tended to decrease in those lowland areas where winter temperatures often hover around freezing (including most major cities), while winter precipitation in the mountains and cold inland areas falls as snow, and might have increased in higher mountain areas. Using these recent 20 years as base period would result in substantial areas in Norway being classified in a different climate zone compared to 1961-90; Oslo and Trondheim would be maritime temperate (Cfb), Tromsø cool maritime (Cfc), and Lillehammer, earlier located at the intersection between subarctic (Dfc) and humid continental (Dfb) climate, would be firmly humid continental. Substantial mountain areas above the treeline would eventually be wooded.\nThe strongest warming has been observed on Svalbard, where the years 2005–2007 have been the warmest ever observed. In addition to warming, precipitation have increased on the mainland, especially in autumn and winter, increasing erosion and the risk of landslides.\n\nGlaciated; mostly high plateaus and rugged mountains broken by fertile valleys; small, scattered plains; coastline deeply indented by fjords; arctic tundra only in the extreme northeast (largely found on the Varanger Peninsula). Frozen ground all-year can also be found in the higher mountain areas and in the interior of Finnmark county. Numerous glaciers are also found in Norway.\n\nElevation extremes:\n\"Lowest point:\" Norwegian Sea 0 m\n\"Highest point:\" Galdhøpiggen \n\nDue to the large latitudinal range of the country and the varied topography and climate, Norway has a larger number of different habitats than almost any other European country. There are approximately 60,000 species of different lifeforms in Norway and adjacent waters (excluding bacteria and virus). The Norwegian Shelf large marine ecosystem is considered highly productive. The total number of species include 16,000 species of insects (probably 4,000 more species yet to be described), 20,000 species of algae, 1,800 species of lichen, 1,050 species of mosses, 2,800 species of vascular plants, up to 7,000 species of fungi, 450 species of birds (250 species nesting in Norway), 90 species of mammals, 45 fresh-water species of fish, 150 salt-water species of fish, 1,000 species of fresh-water invertebrates and 3,500 species of salt-water invertebrates. About 40,000 of these species have been described by science. Scientific exploration in the summer of 2010 in Finnmark discovered 126 species of insects new to Norway, of which 54 species were new to science. The red list of 2006 encompasses 3,886 species. 17 species are listed mainly because they are endangered on a global scale, such as the European beaver, even if the population in Norway are not seen as endangered. There are 430 species of fungi on the red list, many of these are closely associated with the small remaining areas of old-growth forests. There are also 90 species of birds on the list and 25 species of mammals. 1,988 current species are listed as endangered or vulnerable as of 2006; of these are 939 listed as vulnerable (VU), 734 species are listed as endangered (EN), and 285 species are listed as critically endangered (CR) in Norway, among these are the gray wolf, the Arctic fox (healthy population on Svalbard) and the pool frog.\n\nThe largest predator in Norwegian waters is the sperm whale, and the largest fish is the basking shark. The largest predator on land is the polar bear, while the brown bear is the largest predator on the Norwegian mainland, where the common moose is the largest animal.\n\nNatural vegetation in Norway varies considerably, as can be expected in a country covering such a variation in latitude. There are generally fewer species of trees in Norway than in areas in western North America with a similar climate. This is because the migration routes after the ice age is more difficult in the north–south direction in Europe, with bodies of water (like the Baltic Sea and the North Sea) and mountains creating barriers, while in America there is a continuous continent and the mountains follow a north–south direction. However, recent research using DNA- studies of spruce and pine and lake core sediments have proven that Norwegian conifers survived the ice age in ice - free refugees even north to Andøya. Many imported plants have been able to ripen seeds and spread, and less than half of the 2,630 plant species in Norway today actually occur naturally in the country. About 210 species of plants growing in Norway are listed as endangered, and 13 species are endemic. The national parks in Norway are mostly located in mountain areas; about 2% of the productive forests in the country are protected.\nSome plants are classified as western due to their need for high humidity and/or low tolerance of winter frost; these will stay close to the southwestern coast, with the northern limit near Ålesund; some examples are holly and bell heather. Some western species occur north to Helgeland (such as \"Erica tetralix\"), some even to Lofoten (such as Luzula sylvatica).\n\nThe mild temperatures along the coast allows for some surprises; some hardy species of palm grow even as far north as Sunnmøre, one of the largest remaining Linden forest in Europe grows at Flostranda in Stryn and planted deciduous trees such as horse chestnut and beech thrives north of the Arctic circle (as in Steigen).\n\nPlants classified as eastern need comparatively more summer sunshine, with less humidity, but can tolerate cold winters; these will often occur in the southeast and inland areas, examples are \"Daphne mezereum\", \"Fragaria viridis\" and spiked speedwell. Some eastern species common in Siberia grows in the river valleys of eastern Finnmark. There are also species which seems to be in-between these extremes, like the southern plants, where both winter and summer climate is important (such as pedunculate oak, European ash and dog's mercury); other plants are dependent on the type of bedrock.\n\nThere are a considerable number of alpine species in the mountains in Norway; these will not tolerate summers that are comparatively long and warm or can not compete with plants adapted to a longer and warmer growing season; many alpine plants are common in the North Boreal zone and some in the Middle Boreal zone, but their main area of distribution is on the alpine tundra in the Scandinavian mountains and on the Arctic tundra. Many of the most hardy species have adapted by using more than one summer to ripen seeds. Examples of alpine species are glacier buttercup, \"Draba lactea\" and \"Salix herbacea\". A well-known anomaly is the 30 American alpine species, which in Europe only grow in two mountainous parts of Norway; the Dovre-Trollheimen and Jotunheim mountains in the south and the Saltdal to western Finnmark in the north (Gjærevoll, 1992, pp 146–160; Moen, 1998, p 52). Other than in Norway, these species grow only in Canada and Greenland, such as the \"Braya linearis\" and \"Carex scirpoidea\". It is unknown whether these survived the ice age on some mountain peak penetrating the ice, or they spread from further south in Europe, or why did they not spread to other mountainous regions of Europe. Some alpine species have a wider distribution and also grow in Siberia, such as the \"Rhododendron lapponicum\" (Lapland rosebay). Other alpine species are common in the whole Arctic, some only grows in Europe, such as globe-flower.\n\nThe following vegetation zones in Norway are all based on botanical criteria (Moen, 1998; Gjærevoll 1992), although, as mentioned, some plants will have specific demands. Forests, bogs and wetlands, as well as heaths, are all included in the different vegetation zones; a South Boreal bog will differ from a North Boreal bog, although some plant species might occur on both.\n\nA small area along the southern coast, from Soknedal in southern Rogaland and east to Fevik in Aust-Agder (including Kristiansand) belongs to the Nemoral vegetation zone. This zone is located below 150 m above sea level and at most 30 km inland along the valleys. This is the vegetation zone dominating Europe north of southern France, the Alps, the Carpathians and the Caucasus. The hallmark of this zone in Norway is the domination of oak and the virtual complete lack of typical boreal species such as Norway spruce and grey alder, although a lowland variant of pine occurs. Nemoral covers a total of 0.5% of the land area (excluding Svalbard and Jan Mayen).\n\nThe hemiboreal zone covers a total of 7% of the land area in Norway, including 80% of Østfold and Vestfold. This vegetation represents a mix of nemoral and boreal plant species, and belong to the Palearctic Sarmatic mixed forests PA0436 terrestrial ecoregion. The nemoral species tend to dominate slopes facing south - west and on good soil, while the boreal species dominate on slopes facing north and on waterlogged soil. In some areas other factors overrule this, as in areas where the bedrock gives little nutritients, where oak and the boreal pine often share domination. The boreonemoral zone follows the coast from Oslofjord north to Ålesund, becoming discountineous north of Sunnmøre. In Oslo, this zone reaches an elevation of 200 m above sea, and it also reaches into some of the lower valleys and just reaches the lowland around Mjøsa, but not as far north as Lillehammer. In the valleys of the south, this vegetation might exist up to 300 – 400 m above sea level. The zone follows the lowland of the west coast and into the largest fjords, reaching an elevation of 150 m here, even 300 meter in some sheltered fjords and valleys in Nordmøre with nutritients-rich soil. The northernmost locations in the world are several areas along the Trondheimsfjord, such as Frosta, and the northernmost single location is Byahalla in Steinkjer. Some nemoral species in this zone are English oak, sessile oak, European ash, elm, Norway maple, hazel, black alder, lime, yew, holly (southwest coast), wild cherry, ramsons, beech (a late arriver and only common in Vestfold) and primrose. Typical boreal species are Norway spruce, pine, downy birch, grey alder, aspen, rowan, wood anemone and \"Viola riviniana\".\n\nThe boreal species are adapted to the long and cold winter, and most of these species can tolerate colder winter temperatures than winters in most of Norway; thus they are distinguished by their need for growing season length and summer warmth. Bogs are common in the boreal zone, with the largest areas in the North and Middle Boreal Zones, as well as in the area just above the tree line. The large boreal zone is usually divided into three subzones:\n\nThe South Boreal zone (SB) is dominated by boreal species, especially Norway spruce, and covers a total of 12% of the land area. The SB is the only boreal zone with a few scattered - but well-developed - warmth-demanding broadleaf deciduous trees, such as European ash and oak. A number of species in this zone needs fairly warm summers (SB has 3–4 months with a mean 24-hr temperature of at least 10 °C), and thus are not to be found or are very rare in the middle boreal zone. Some of the species not to be found further north are black alder, hop, oregano and guelder rose. This zone is found above the hemiboreal zone, up to 450 meter amsl in Østlandet and 500 m in the most southern valleys. In the eastern valleys it reaches several hundred kilometers into Gudbrandsdal and Østerdal, and up to Lom and Skjåk in Ottadalen. Along the southwestern coast, the zone reaches an elevation of 400 at the head of the large fjords (as in Lærdal), and about 300 m nearer to the coast. Norway spruce is lacking in Vestlandet (Voss is an exception). North of Ålesund, SB vegetation dominates in the lowland down to sea level, including the islands like Hitra. Most of the lowland in Trøndelag below 180 m elevation is SB, up to 300 m above sea level in the inland vallys such as Gauldalen and Verdalen, and up to 100 m in Namdalen. The coastal areas and some fjord areas further north, such as Vikna, Brønnøy and the best locations along the Helgeland coast is SB north to the mouth of Ranfjord, while inland areas north of Grong are dominated by Middle Boreal zone in the lowland. There are small isolated areas with SB vegetation further north, as in Bodø and Fauske; the most northern location is a narrow strip along the northern shore of Ofotfjord. The endemic Nordland-whitebeam only grows in Bindal. Agriculture in Norway, including grain cultivation, takes place mostly in the hemiboreal and SB zone.\n\nThe typical closed-canopy forest of the Middle Boreal (MB) zone is dominated by boreal plant species. The MB vegetation covers a total of 20% of the land area. Norway spruce is the dominant tree in large areas in the interior of Østlandet, Sørlandet, Trøndelag and Helgeland; the MB and SB spruce dominated forest is the commercially most important forest in Norway. Spruce does not grow naturally north of Saltfjell in mid-Nordland (the siberian spruce variant occurs in the Pasvik valley) due to mountain ranges blocking the advance, but is often planted in MB areas further north for economic reasons, contributing to a different landscape. Birch is usually dominant in these northern areas, but pine, aspen, rowan, bird cherry and grey alder are also common. This MB birch is often a cross between silver birch and downy birch and is larger (6 – 12 m) than the birch growing near the tree line; conifers will grow taller. Some alpine plants grow in the MB zone, nemoral species are rare. The understory is usually well developed if the forest is not too dense, and many plants do not grow further north. Grey alder, silver birch, yellow bedstraw, raspberry, mugwort and \"Myrica gale\" are examples of species in this zone which do not grow further north or higher up. MB is located at an altitude of 400 – 750 m in Østlandet, up to 800 m in the southern valleys, from 300 m to 600 m (800 m at the head of the long fjords) on the southwest coast, and from 180 – 450 m in Trøndelag (700 m in the interior, as in Røros and Oppdal). Further north, MB is common in the lowland, up to 100 m above sea level in Lofoten and Vesterålen, 200 m above sea level in Narvik, 100 m in Tromsø, 130 m - 200 m in inland valleys in Troms, and the lowland at the head of Altafjord is the most northerly area of any size; small pockets exist in Porsanger and Sør-Varanger. This is usually the most northerly area with some farming activity, and Barley was traditionally grown even as far north as Alta.\n\nThe North Boreal (NB) zone, (also known as open or sparse taiga) is the zone closest to the tree line, bordering the alpine or polar area and dominated by a harsh subarctic climate. There are at least 30 days with a mean of 10 °C or more (summer) and up to about 2 months. The trees grow very slow and generally do not get very large; the forest is not as dense as further south or at lower altitude, and is known as the mountain forest (\"No:Fjellskog\"). The NB zone covers a total of 28% of the land area in Norway, including almost half of Finnmark, where the mountain birch is growing down to sea level. The lower part of this zone also has conifers, but the tree line in Norway is mostly formed by mountain birch, a subspecies of downy birch (\"ssp. czerepanovii\" ; not to be confused with dwarf birch). Spruce and pine make up the tree line in some mountain areas with a more continental climate. Alpine plants are common in this zone. Birch forest at 1,320 m above sea level at Sikilsdalshorn is the highest tree line in Norway. The tree line is lower closer to the coast and in areas with lower mountains due to cooler summers, more wind near mountain summits, and more snow in the winter (coastal mountains) leading to later snowmelt. The NB zone is located at 750 – 950 m altitude in the interior of Østlandet and covers large areas; at 800 – 1200 m in the central mountain areas; but at the western coast the tree line is down to about 500 m above sea level, increasing significantly into the long fjords (1,100 m at the head of Sognefjord). Further north, large areas in the interior highlands or uplands of Trøndelag and North Norway is dominated by the NB zone, with the tree line at about 800 m amsl in the interior of Trøndelag, 600 m in Rana, 500 m in Narvik, 400 m in Tromsø, 100 m in Hammerfest (only pockets in sheltered areas) and 200 m in Kirkenes. The large Finnmarksvidda plateau is at an altitude placing it almost exactly at the tree line. The last patch of NB zone gives way to tundra at sea level about 10 km south of the North Cape plateau (near Skarsvåg); areas south of this line is tundra-like with scattered patches of mountain birch woodland (forest tundra) and becomes alpine tundra even at minor elevations. The trees near the tree line is often bent by snow, wind and growing season frost; height is only 2 – 4 m. Outside Norway (and adjacent areas in Sweden), the only other areas in the world with the tree line mostly made up by a small-leaved deciduous tree like birch - in contrast to conifers - are Iceland and the Kamtschatka peninsula.\n\nA conifer tree line is sometimes used (\"No: Barskoggrense\") to divide this zone into two subzones, as the conifers will (usually) not grow as high up as the mountain birch. Spruce and pine grow at nearly 1,100 m above sea level in some areas of Jotunheimen, down to in Bergen (900 m at the head of Sognefjord), 900 m in Lillehammer (mountains near Oslo too low to observe a tree line), 500 m in Trondheim (750 m in Oppdal), 350 m in Narvik, 200 m in Harstad, in Alta and the most northerly pine forest in the world is in Stabbursdalen National Park in Porsanger. There are some forestry in this part of the NB zone; some conifers can grow quite large even if growth is slow.\n\nThe boreal zones in Norway belongs to three ecoregions: The area dominated by spruce forests (some birch, pine, willow, aspen) mostly belong to the Scandinavian and Russian taiga PA0608 ecoregion. The Scandinavian coastal conifer forests PA0520 ecoregion in coastal areas with mild winters and frequent rainfall follows the coast from south of Stavanger and north to southern Troms and includes both hemiboreal and boreal areas. Bordering the latter region is the Scandinavian Montane Birch forest and grasslands PA1110 ecoregion. This region seems to include both mountain areas with alpine tundra and lowland forests, essentially all areas outside the natural range of Norway spruce forests. This ecoregion thus show a very large span in climate and environmental conditions, from the temperate forest along the fjords of Western Norway to the summit of Galdhøpiggen and northeast to the Varanger Peninsula. The area above the conifer treeline is made up by mountain birch \"Betula pubescens ssp. czerepanovii\" (\"No: fjellbjørkeskog\"). The Scots pine reaches its altitudinal limit about 200 m lower than the mountain birch.\n\nAlpine tundra is common in Norway, covering a total of 32% of the land area (excluding Svalbard and Jan Mayen) and belonging to the Scandinavian Montane Birch forest and grasslands PA1110 ecoregion. The area closest to the tree line (low alpine) has continuous plant cover, with willow species such as \"Salix glauca\", \"S. lanata\" and \"S. lapponum\" 0.5 meter tall; blueberry, common juniper and twinflower are common. The low alpine area was traditionally used as summer pastures, and partly still is. This zone reaches an elevation of 1,500 m in Jotunheimen and includes most of Hardangervidda, it reaches 1,300 m in eastern Trollheimen and about 800 m in Narvik and the Lyngen Alps. Higher up (mid-alpine tundra) the plants become smaller, mosses and lichens are more predominant; plants still cover most of the ground even if snowfields last into mid-summer and permafrost are common. At the highest elevations (high-alpine tundra) the ground is dominated by bare rock, snow and glaciers, with few plants.\n\nThe highest altitude weather station in Norway, Fanaråken in Luster at 2,062 m, barely have three months above freezing and a July average of 2.7 °C. Still, glacier buttercup has been found only 100 m below the summit of Galdhøpiggen, and mosses and lichens have been found at the summit.\n\nIn northeastern Finnmark (northern half of the Varanger Peninsula and Nordkinn Peninsula) is a small lowland tundra area which is often considered part of the Kola Peninsula tundra PA1106 ecoregion. Svalbard and Jan Mayen have tundra vegetation except for areas covered by glaciers, and some areas, like the cliffs at southern Bear Island, are fertilized by seabird colonies. This tundra is often considered part of the Arctic Desert PA1101 ecoregion. The most lush areas on these Arctic islands are sheltered fjord areas at Spitsbergen; they have the highest summer temperatures and the very dry climate ensures little snow and thus comparatively early snowmelt. The short growing season and the permafrost underneath the active layer still ensures enough moisture; plants include dwarf birch, cloudberry, Svalbard poppy and harebell.\n\nA warmer climate would push the vegetation zones significantly northwards and to higher elevations.\n\nIn addition to oil and natural gas, hydroelectric power, and fish and forest resources, Norway has reserves of ferric and nonferric metal ores. Many of these have been exploited in the past but are now idle because of low metal content and high operating costs. Europe's largest ilmenite (titanium) deposits are near the southwest coast. Coal is mined in the Svalbard islands.\n\nResources: Petroleum, copper, natural gas, pyrites, nickel, iron ore, zinc, lead, fish, lumber, hydropower.\n\n\"arable land:\" 3.3% (in use; some more marginal areas are not in use or used as pastures)\n\"permanent crops:\" 0%\n\"permanent pastures:\" 0%\n\"forests and woodland:\" 38% of land area is covered by forest, 21% by conifer forest, 17% deciduous forest, increasing as many pastures in the higher elevations and some coastal, man-made heaths are no longer used or reforested, and due to warmer summers\n\"other:\" 59% (mountains and heaths 46%, bogs and wetlands 6.3%, lakes and rivers 5.3%, urban areas 1.1%)\n\nIrrigated land: , 1993 est.\n\nNatural hazards:\n\nEnvironmental concerns in Norway include how to cut greenhouse gas emissions, pollution of the air and water, loss of habitat, damage to cold water coral reefs from trawlers, and salmon fish farming threatening the wild salmon by spawning in the rivers, thereby diluting the local DNA. Acid rain has damaged lakes, rivers and forest, especially in the southernmost part of the country, and most wild salmon populations in Sørlandet have died. Due to lower emissions in Europe, acid rain in Norway has decreased by 40% from 1980 to 2003. Another concern is a possible increase in extreme weather. In the future, climate models predict increased precipitation, especially in the areas with current high precipitation, and also predict more episodes with heavy precipitation within a short time span, which can cause landslides and local floods. Winters will probably be significant milder, and the sea ice cover in the Arctic ocean might melt altogether in summer, threatening the survival of the polar bear on Svalbard. Both terrestrial and aquatic species are expected to shift northwards, and this is already observed for some species: migratory birds arriving earlier, trees coming into leaf earlier, mackerel becoming common in summer off the coast of Troms, the growing red deer population is spreading northwards and eastwards and 2008 was the first hunting season which saw more red deer (35,700) than moose shot. The total number of species in Norway are expected to rise due to new species arriving. Norwegians are statistically among the world's most worried when it comes to global warming and its effects, even if Norway is among the countries expected to be least negatively affected by global warming, with some possible gains.\n\n\"party to:\"\nAir Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13544786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13544786", "title": "Geography of rugby league", "text": "Geography of rugby league\n\nRugby league is a full contact football code and spectator sport played in various countries around the world and governed by the Rugby League International Federation. As of 2010 there are currently 27 nations fielding domestic leagues that meet the World Cup eligibility requirements. Further to this there are over 30 others that are playing at an emerging level status at varying degrees of international competition and are in the process of developing the game in their nations. The global player pool is estimated to be in the millions.\n\nAlthough one of the last football codes to be developed, since the modern 1990's professional era the game has expanded outside of its traditionals heartlands in Australia, England, France and New Zealand. As a result, many players of European, American and Pacific Islander background have risen to the top professional level in the two major domestic leagues, the National Rugby League and Super League.\n\nWhilst individual international test matches between nations have been staged regularly since the sport's inception in 1908, the first multi-national tournament was held in France in 1954, making it the first World Cup of either rugby code and the first to be officially known as the \"Rugby World Cup\".\n\nRugby league is a growing sport in Africa, with the game first introduced to the continent in the early 2017. The vast distance of teams from the game's heartlands has at times affected the development of the sport but new advances in the 21st century have seen a major increase in the number of internationals scheduled. Many high calibre players from the continent have progressed to the top club leagues, including Younes Khattabi, Jamal Fakir, Tom van Vollenhoven, Fred Griffiths and Jarrod Saffy. The large ex-patriate Moroccan population in the south of France has resulted in a growing interchange of players between the two countries. Rugby league in Africa is played in South Africa, Gambia, Morocco, Burundi, Nigeria and Ghana.\n\n\"Countries that meet current World Cup qualification criteria:\"\n\n\"Other countries with a history of the game:\"\n\nRugby league is a growing sport in the Americas, having first started with All Star exhibition matches in the 1950s. It has been played at an organised semi-professional level in North America since it was first introduced as a competition sport in the 1990s. There are currently domestic leagues operating in Jamaica, Canada and the United States. Many players of Caribbean heritage live and play in the European Super League and have brought their skills back to the islands to foster the development of thousands of new players. The game is also played at a lower amateur level across the Americas by ex-patriates although only recognised national organisations are listed here for brevity.\n\nCanada currently has two domesitic competitions, Ontario and British Columbia, with British Columbia being the premier competition with also the most teams. British Columbia Rugby League (BCRL) also has a provincial team known as the BC Bulldogs. In 2012, the BC Bulldogs competed against Utah Avalanche from Salt Lake who currently play in the AMNRL. The game was contested over two legs, home and away, with BC taking both games. The BC Bulldogs also made an appearance at the Las Vegas Remembrance Cup and come third. Coogee Bay Dolphins from Australia took out the competition for the second time in a row.\n\nIn 2013, BCRL will be made up of 6 teams, namely Bayside Sharks, Kelowna Crows, Richmond Bears, Sea to Sky Eagles, Surrey Beavers and Vancouver Dragons.\n\nBrazil has also taken up the sport in 2013.\n\nSince 2013 the Latin Heat Rugby League has had moderate success in introducing rugby League to players with Latin American heritage living in Australia. In 2014 the Latin Heat opened a U.S chapter.\n\n\"Countries that meet current World Cup qualification criteria:\"\n\n\"Other countries with a history of the game:\"\n\nRugby league is a growing sport in Asia and the Middle East, with a large growth in players since the 1990s, some of which have played at the game's elite levels in the National Rugby League and Super League. The game in the Middle East is one of the fastest growing sports with regular internationals played against European and Mediterranean teams. Although Russia has a growing rugby league presence and extends into Asia, the main competition is in Europe.\n\n\"Countries that meet current World Cup qualification criteria:\"\n\n\"Other countries with a history of the game:\"\n\nWorld Cup eligibile: Serbia, Norway, Russia, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Italy, Catalonia, Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, Netherlands, Ukraine,\nRugby league is a moderately popular game in parts of Europe, particularly the eastern and western parts of the continent.\nEngland is the birthplace of the game, has a professional competition in Super League (which includes a team from France) and Great Britain (including Scotland and Wales) is an RLIF test nation.\nRussia is also a test nation, and the sport is popular there.\nAustria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Netherlands, Serbia are all affiliate RLIF nations. The game also has a history in Georgia.\n\nRugby league is a popular sport in Oceania and the Pacific islands. Australia, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea are the main nations playing rugby league in Oceania. \nThe Cook Islands, Tonga, Samoa and Fiji are also RLIF test nations.\nAffiliate nations include American Samoa, New Caledonia, Niue and Tokelau.\nThe Solomon Islands also have some history of the sport.\n\nCountries that meet current World Cup qualification criteria:\n\n"}
{"id": "58929804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58929804", "title": "Geology of South Ossetia", "text": "Geology of South Ossetia\n\nThe geology of South Ossetia is underlain by the suture left by the closing of the Paleotethys Ocean. Jurassic age slate and limestone are predominant in the southwest, while much of the north has Cretaceous clastic limestone, greywacke and siltstone flysch rocks. Overthrust nappes and faults are common in the center of the region. \n"}
{"id": "450170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=450170", "title": "Governor-General of Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "Governor-General of Antigua and Barbuda\n\nThe Governor-General of Antigua and Barbuda is the representative of the Monarch of Antigua and Barbuda, currently being Queen Elizabeth II. The official residence of the Governor-General is Government House.\n\nThe position of Governor-General was established when Antigua and Barbuda was granted independence on 1 November 1981, prior to which there had existed the equivalent position of Governor of Antigua and Barbuda.\n\nThe office of Governor-General is provided for by Chapter III, Sections 22 to 26 of the Constitution. These state:\n\n"}
{"id": "18048183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18048183", "title": "Graham Seamount", "text": "Graham Seamount\n\nThe Graham Seamount is a seamount located in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia, Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1285290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1285290", "title": "Gregale", "text": "Gregale\n\nThe Gregale (, , , , , , \"Graigos\") is a Mediterranean wind that can occur during times when a low-pressure area moves through the area to the south of Malta and causes a strong, cool, northeasterly wind to affect the island. It also affects other islands of the Western Mediterranean.\n\nThe name derives from the Italian \"grecale\", which refers to the island of Zakynthos, in Greece.\n\nThis is likely to be the Euroclydon wind, from Greek \"Euros\" (east) and \"kludon\" (billow, surge) or Latin \"Aquilo\" (north) \"northeaster\" or the island Clauda (Acts 27:16), which wrecked the apostle Paul's ship on the coast of Malta on his way to Rome .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12802198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12802198", "title": "Hart InterCivic", "text": "Hart InterCivic\n\nHart InterCivic Inc. is a privately held United States company that provides elections, and print solutions to jurisdictions nationwide. While headquartered in Austin, Texas, Hart products are used by hundreds of jurisdictions nationwide, including counties in Texas, the entire states of Hawaii and Oklahoma, half of Washington and Colorado, and certain counties in Ohio, California, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and Virginia.\n\nHart entered the elections industry in 1912, printing ballots for Texas counties. The company, formerly a division of Hart Graphics, Inc., was established as a subsidiary called Hart Forms & Services in 1989. In 1995, to better communicate its full scope of document management services, Hart Forms & Services changed its name to Hart Information Services, Inc. During the next five years, Hart Information Services rapidly expanded its market presence through the acquisition of three major election services providers: Texas County Printing & Services, Computer Link Corporation, and Worldwide Election Systems. Worldwide was the developer of the eSlate, Hart's direct recording electronic (DRE) voting machine. The eSlate was specifically designed to accommodate the needs of voter with disabilities. It is not a touch-screen device, but uses a Select Wheel and digital push-button interface.\n\nThe need for document management and election services continued to grow, and in 1999, the company spun off completely from Hart Graphics. In 2000, the company became Hart InterCivic Inc., reflecting its corporate mission to service the interactive relationship of Hart InterCivic, state and local governments, and the citizens they serve.\n\nIn the mid-2000s Hart entered and then exited the Geographic Information Systems business by acquiring and then spinning back out Farragut Systems.\n\nIn July 2011, Hart received what Hart described as \"a strategic investment\" from H.I.G. Capital, in a transaction that Hart's advisors called an \"acquisition.\"\n\nAs of October 2012, the Board has five members: Gregg Burt, Chairman; Phillip Braithwaite, Chief Executive Officer; Neil Tuch, Managing Director, H.I.G. Capital; Jeff Bohl, Principal, H.I.G. Capital; and Amanda Kalin, Associate, H.I.G. Capital. HIG controls 3 out of 5 board seats.\n\nTwo of the H.I.G. Directors that work for H.I.G., Neil Tuch and Jeff Bohl, have previously made contributions to presidential campaigns – Neil Tuch contributed to both the Obama and Romney campaigns prior to H.I.G.’s investment in Hart InterCivic, and Jeff Bohl contributed to the Romney campaign in 2011. As of October 2012, H.I.G. is the 11th largest of all the contributors to the Romney effort.\n\nH.I.G. counts Solamere Capital as a minor investor in one of its funds. Solamere Capital is an investment firm founded by Mitt Romney's, son, Tagg Romney, and Spencer Zwick, Mitt Romney's campaign finance chair and in which Mitt Romney's brother, Scott, and Mitt Romney's wife, Ann, and Mitt Romney himself has invested, and which is run by Tagg Romney. Solamere is not invested in the specific H.I.G. fund that has an investment in Hart InterCivic.\n\nOn August 3, 2007, California Secretary of State Debra Bowen withdrew approval and then granted conditional reapproval of Hart InterCivic optical scan and DRE voting machines after a \"top-to-bottom review\" of California voting machines.\n\nA report commissioned by Ohio’s top elections official on December 15, 2007 has found that all five voting systems used in Ohio (including one made by Hart InterCivic) have critical flaws that could undermine the integrity of the 2008 general election.\n\nDuring voting for the 2018 Texas general election, an Election Advisory was issued by the Director of Elections, Keith Ingram. Voters using the InterCivic eSlate voting machine could have their votes adjusted or flipped while on a summary page if the buttons were interacted with if the page was not fully rendered. The machines were in use in 82 counties in Texas during the 2018 election and have been certified for use in the state since 2009.\n\nSecretary Rolando Pablos later issued an additional Advisory, noting that \"[I]t is important for all voters in the 82 Texas counties utilizing the Hart Intercivic eSlate to understand that the voting machines are not malfunctioning, nor are they arbitrarily 'switching' the choices of voters who cast a straight-party ballot,\" citing a \"disturbing trend\" in the distribution of misinformation about the integrity of the machines and the election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36660942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36660942", "title": "Human Ecology (journal)", "text": "Human Ecology (journal)\n\n\"Human Ecology: An Interdisciplinary Journal\" is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering research on human ecology. It was established in 1972 by Andrew P. Vayda. The editor-in-chief is Daniel G. Bates (City University of New York).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 1.64.\n"}
{"id": "10984954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10984954", "title": "Index of Tibet-related articles", "text": "Index of Tibet-related articles\n\nThis is a list of topics related to Tibet.\n\nThose interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages by clicking on \"Related changes\" in the sidebar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55064", "title": "Inner Mongolia", "text": "Inner Mongolia\n\nInner Mongolia or Nei Mongol (Mongolian: \"Öbür Monggol\", \"Övör Mongol\" ; ), officially the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region or Nei Mongol Autonomous Region (NMAR), is one of the autonomous regions of the People's Republic of China, located in the north of the country. Its border includes most of the length of China's border with Mongolia, and a small section of China's border with Russia. Its capital is Hohhot; other major cities include Baotou, Chifeng, and Ordos.\n\nThe Autonomous Region was established in 1947, incorporating the areas of the former Republic of China provinces of Suiyuan, Chahar, Rehe, Liaobei and Xing'an, along with the northern parts of Gansu and Ningxia.\n\nIts area makes it the third largest Chinese subdivision, constituting approximately and 12% of China's total land area. It recorded a population of 24,706,321 in the 2010 census, accounting for 1.84% of Mainland China's total population. Inner Mongolia is the country's 23rd most populous province-level division. The majority of the population in the region are Han Chinese, with a sizeable titular Mongol minority. The official languages are Mandarin and Mongolian, the latter of which is written in the traditional Mongolian script, as opposed to the Mongolian Cyrillic alphabet, which is used in the state of Mongolia (formerly often described in the West as \"Outer Mongolia\").\n\nIn Chinese, the region is known as \"Inner Mongolia\", where the terms of \"Inner/Outer\" are derived from Manchu \"dorgi\"/\"tulergi\" (cf. Mongolian \"dotugadu\"/\"gadagadu\"). Inner Mongolia is distinct from Outer Mongolia, which was a term used by the Republic of China and previous governments to refer to what is now the independent state of Mongolia plus the Republic of Tuva in Russia. The term Inner (Nei) referred to the Nei Fan (Inner Tributary), i.e. those descendants of Genghis Khan who granted the title khan (king) in Ming and Qing dynasties and lived in part of southern part of Mongolia. In Mongolian, the region was called \"Dotugadu monggol\" during Qing rule and was renamed into \"Öbür Monggol\" in 1947, \"öbür\" meaning the southern side of a mountain, while the Chinese term \"Nei Menggu\" was retained. In recent years, some Mongols (mainly those who support independence from China) began to call Inner Mongolia \"Nan\" () \"Menggu\", literally \"South Mongolia\", and with it came the change of English translation from Inner Mongolia to Southern Mongolia.\n\nMuch of what is known about the history of Greater Mongolia, including Inner Mongolia, is known through Chinese chronicles and historians. Before the rise of the Mongols in the 13th century, what is now central and western Inner Mongolia, especially the Hetao region, alternated in control between Chinese agriculturalists in the south and Xiongnu, Xianbei, Khitan, Jurchen, Tujue, and nomadic Mongol of the north. The historical narrative of what is now Eastern Inner Mongolia mostly consists of alternations between different Tungusic and Mongol tribes, rather than the struggle between nomads and Chinese agriculturalists.\n\nSlab Grave cultural monuments are found in northern, central and eastern Mongolia, Inner Mongolia, north-western China, southern, central-eastern and southern Baikal territory. Mongolian scholars prove that this culture related to the Proto-Mongols.\n\nDuring the Zhou dynasty, central and western Inner Mongolia (the Hetao region and surrounding areas) were inhabited by nomadic peoples such as the Loufan, Linhu, and Dí, while eastern Inner Mongolia was inhabited by the Donghu. During the Warring States period, King Wuling (340–295 BC) of the state of Zhao based in what is now Hebei and Shanxi provinces pursued an expansionist policy towards the region. After destroying the Dí state of Zhongshan in what is now Hebei province, he defeated the Linhu and Loufan and created the commandery of Yunzhong near modern Hohhot. King Wuling of Zhao also built a long wall stretching through the Hetao region. After Qin Shihuang created the first unified Chinese empire in 221 BC, he sent the general Meng Tian to drive the Xiongnu from the region, and incorporated the old Zhao wall into the Qin dynasty Great Wall of China. He also maintained two commanderies in the region: Jiuyuan and Yunzhong, and moved 30,000 households there to solidify the region. After the Qin dynasty collapsed in 206 BC, these efforts were abandoned.\n\nDuring the Western Han dynasty, Emperor Wu sent the general Wei Qing to reconquer the Hetao region from the Xiongnu in 127 BC. After the conquest, Emperor Wu continued the policy of building settlements in Hetao to defend against the Xiong-Nu. In that same year he established the commanderies of Shuofang and Wuyuan in Hetao. At the same time, what is now eastern Inner Mongolia was controlled by the Xianbei, who would later on eclipse the Xiongnu in power and influence.\n\nDuring the Eastern Han dynasty (25–220 AD), Xiongnu who surrendered to the Han dynasty began to be settled in Hetao, and intermingled with the Han immigrants in the area. Later on during the Western Jin dynasty, it was a Xiongnu noble from Hetao, Liu Yuan, who established the Han Zhao kingdom in the region, thereby beginning the Sixteen Kingdoms period that saw the disintegration of northern China under a variety of Han and non-Han (including Xiongnu and Xianbei) regimes.\n\nThe Sui dynasty (581–618) and Tang dynasty (618–907) re-established a unified Chinese empire, and like their predecessors, they conquered and settled people into Hetao, though once again these efforts were aborted when the Tang empire began to collapse. Hetao (along with the rest of what now consists Inner Mongolia) was then taken over by the Khitan Empire (Liao dynasty), founded by the Khitans, a nomadic people originally from what is now the southern part of Manchuria and eastern Inner Mongolia. They were followed by the Western Xia of the Tanguts, who took control of what is now the western part of Inner Mongolia (including western Hetao) . The Khitans were later replaced by the Jurchens, precursors to the modern Manchus, who established the Jin dynasty over Manchuria and northern China.\n\nAfter Genghis Khan unified the Mongol tribes in 1206 and founded the Mongol Empire, the Tangut Western Xia empire was ultimately conquered in 1227, and the Jurchen Jin dynasty fell in 1234. In 1271, Kublai Khan, the grandson of Genghis Khan established the Yuan dynasty. Kublai Khan's summer capital Shangdu (aka Xanadu) was located near present-day Dolonnor. During that time Ongud and Khunggirad peoples dominated the area of what is now Inner Mongolia. After the Yuan dynasty was overthrown by the Han-led Ming dynasty in 1368, the Ming captured parts of Inner Mongolia including Shangdu and Yingchang. The Ming rebuilt the Great Wall of China at its present location, which roughly follows the southern border of the modern Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (though it deviates significantly at the Hebei-Inner Mongolia border). The Ming established the Three Guards composed of the Mongols there. Soon after the Tumu incident in 1449, when the Oirat ruler Esen taishi captured the Chinese emperor, Mongols flooded south from Outer Mongolia to Inner Mongolia. Thus from then on until 1635, Inner Mongolia was the political and cultural center of the Mongols during the Northern Yuan dynasty.\n\nThe eastern Mongol tribes near and in Manchuria, particularly the Khorchin and Southern Khalkha in today's Inner Mongolia intermarried, formed alliances with, and fought against the Jurchen tribes until Nurhaci, the founder of the new Jin dynasty, consolidated his control over all groups in the area in 1593. The Manchus gained far-reaching control of the Inner Mongolian tribes in 1635, when Ligden Khan's son surrendered the Chakhar Mongol tribes to the Manchus. The Manchus subsequently invaded Ming China in 1644, bringing it under the control of their newly established Qing dynasty. Under the Qing dynasty (1636–1912), Greater Mongolia was administered in a different way for each region:\n\nThe Inner Mongolian Chahar leader Ligdan Khan, a descendant of Genghis Khan, opposed and fought against the Qing until he died of smallpox in 1634. Thereafter, the Inner Mongols under his son Ejei Khan surrendered to the Qing and was given the title of Prince (), and Inner Mongolian nobility became closely tied to the Qing royal family and intermarried with them extensively. Ejei Khan died in 1661 and was succeeded by his brother Abunai. After Abunai showed disaffection with Manchu Qing rule, he was placed under house arrest in 1669 in Shenyang and the Kangxi Emperor gave his title to his son Borni. Abunai then bid his time and then he and his brother Lubuzung revolted against the Qing in 1675 during the Revolt of the Three Feudatories, with 3,000 Chahar Mongol followers joining in on the revolt. The revolt was put down within two months, the Qing then crushed the rebels in a battle on April 20, 1675, killing Abunai and all his followers. Their title was abolished, all Chahar Mongol royal males were executed even if they were born to Manchu Qing princesses, and all Chahar Mongol royal females were sold into slavery except the Manchu Qing princesses. The Chahar Mongols were then put under the direct control of the Qing Emperor unlike the other Inner Mongol leagues which maintained their autonomy.\n\nDespite officially prohibiting Han Chinese settlement on the Manchu and Mongol lands, by the 18th century the Qing decided to settle Han refugees from northern China who were suffering from famine, floods, and drought into Manchuria and Inner Mongolia so that Han Chinese farmed 500,000 hectares in Manchuria and tens of thousands of hectares in Inner Mongolia by the 1780s.\n\nOrdinary Mongols were not allowed to travel outside their own leagues. Mongols were forbidden by the Qing from crossing the borders of their banners, even into other Mongol Banners and from crossing into neidi (the Han Chinese 18 provinces) and were given serious punishments if they did in order to keep the Mongols divided against each other to benefit the Qing.\n\nDuring the eighteenth century, growing numbers of Han Chinese settlers had illegally begun to move into the Inner Mongolian steppe. By 1791 there had been so many Han Chinese settlers in the Front Gorlos Banner that the jasak had petitioned the Qing government to legalize the status of the peasants who had already settled there.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century, the Manchus were becoming increasingly sinicized, and faced with the Russian threat, they began to encourage Han Chinese farmers to settle in both Mongolia and Manchuria. This policy was followed by subsequent governments. The railroads that were being built in these regions were especially useful to the Han Chinese settlers. Land was either sold by Mongol Princes, or leased to Han Chinese farmers, or simply taken away from the nomads and given to Han Chinese farmers. The Jindandao Incident, a rebellion by an ethnic Chinese secret society called Jindandao occurred in Inner Mongolia in November 1891 and massacred 150,000 Mongols before being suppressed by government troops in late December.\n\nOuter Mongolia gained independence from the Qing dynasty in 1911, when the Jebtsundamba Khutugtu of the Khalkha was declared the Bogd Khan of Mongolia. Although almost all banners of Inner Mongolia recognized the Bogd Khan as the supreme ruler of Mongols, the internal strife within the region prevented a full reunification. The Mongol rebellions in Inner Mongolia were counterbalanced by princes who hoped to see a restored Qing dynasty in Manchuria and Mongolia, as they considered the theocratic rule of the Bogd Khan would be against their modernizing objectives for Mongolia. Eventually, the newly formed Republic of China promised a new nation of five races (Han, Manchu, Mongol, Tibetan and Uyghur), and suppressed the Mongol rebellions in the area, forcing the Inner Mongolian princes to recognize the Republic of China.\n\nThe Republic of China reorganized Inner Mongolia into provinces:\nSome Republic of China maps still show this structure.\n\nThe history of Inner Mongolia during the Second World War is complicated, with Japanese invasion and different kinds of resistance movements. In 1931, Manchuria came under the control of the Japanese puppet state Manchukuo, taking some Mongol areas in the Manchurian provinces (i.e. Hulunbuir and Jirim leagues) along. Rehe was also incorporated into Manchukuo in 1933, taking Juu Uda and Josutu leagues along with it. These areas were occupied by Manchukuo until the end of World War II in 1945.\n\nIn 1937, the Empire of Japan openly and fully invaded Republic of China by war. On December 8, 1937, Mongolian Prince Demchugdongrub (also known as \"De Wang\") declared an independence of the remaining parts of Inner Mongolia (i.e. the Suiyuan and Chahar provinces) as Mengjiang, and signed an agreements with Manchukuo and Japan. Its capital was established at Zhangbei (now in Hebei province), with the Japanese puppet government's control extending as far west as the Hohhot region. The Japanese advanced was defeated by Hui Muslim General Ma Hongbin at the Battle of West Suiyuan and Battle of Wuyuan. After 1945, Inner Mongolia has remained part of China.\n\nThe Mongol Ulanhu fought against the Japanese.\n\nEthnic Mongolian guerilla units were created by the Kuomintang Nationalists to fight against the Japanese during the war in the late 30s and early 40s. These Mongol militias were created by the Ejine and Alashaa based commissioner's offices created by the Kuomintang. Prince Demchugdongrob's Mongols were targeted by Kuomintang Mongols to defect to the Republic of China. The Nationalists recruited 1,700 ethnic minority fighters in Inner Mongolia and created war zones in the Tumet Banner, Ulanchab League, and Ordos Yekejuu League.\n\nThe Communist movement gradually gained momentum as part of the Third Communist International in Inner Mongolia during the Japanese period. By the end of WWII, the Inner Mongolian faction of the ComIntern had a functional militia, and actively opposed the attempts at independence by De Wang's Chinggisid princes on the grounds of fighting feudalism. Following the end of World War II, the Chinese Communists gained control of Manchuria as well as the Inner Mongolian Communists with decisive Soviet support, and established the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in 1947. The Comintern army was absorbed into the People's Liberation Army. Initially the autonomous region included just the Hulunbuir region. Over the next decade, as the communists established the People's Republic of China and consolidated control over mainland China, Inner Mongolia was expanded westwards to include five of the six original leagues (except Josutu League, which remains in Liaoning province), the northern part of the Chahar region, by then a league as well (southern Chahar remains in Hebei province), the Hetao region, and the Alashan and Ejine banners. Eventually, near all areas with sizeable Mongol populations were incorporated into the region, giving present-day Inner Mongolia its elongated shape. The leader of Inner Mongolia during that time, as both regional CPC secretary and head of regional government, was Ulanhu.\n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, the administration of Ulanhu was purged, and a wave of repressions was initiated against the Mongol population of the autonomous region. In 1969 much of Inner Mongolia was distributed among surrounding provinces, with Hulunbuir divided between Heilongjiang and Jilin, Jirim going to Jilin, Juu Uda to Liaoning, and the Alashan and Ejine region divided among Gansu and Ningxia. This was reversed in 1979.\n\nInner Mongolia has seen considerable development since Deng Xiaoping instituted Chinese economic reform in 1978. For about ten years since 2000, Inner Mongolia's GDP growth has been the highest in the country, (along with Guangdong) largely owing to the success of natural resource industries in the region. GDP growth has continually been over 10%, even 15% and connections with the Wolf Economy to the north has helped development. However, growth has come at a cost with huge amounts of pollution and degradation to the grasslands. Attempts to attract ethnic Chinese to migrate from other regions, as well as urbanise those rural nomads and peasants has led to huge amounts of corruption and waste in public spending, such as Ordos City. Acute uneven wealth distribution has further exacerbated ethnic tensions, many indigenous Mongolians feeling they are increasingly marginalised in their own homeland, leading to riots in 2011 and 2013.\n\nOfficially Inner Mongolia is classified as one of the provincial-level divisions of North China, but its great stretch means that parts of it belong to Northeast China and Northwest China as well. It borders eight provincial-level divisions in all three of the aforementioned regions (Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning, Hebei, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Ningxia, and Gansu), tying with Shaanxi for the greatest number of bordering provincial-level divisions. Most of its international border is with Mongolia, which, in Chinese, is sometimes called \"Outer Mongolia\", while a small portion is with Russia's Zabaykalsky Krai.\nInner Mongolia largely consists of the northern side of the North China Craton, a tilted and sedimented Precambrian block. In the extreme southwest is the edge of the Tibetan Plateau where the autonomous region’s highest peak, Main Peak in the Helan Mountains reaches , and is still being pushed up today in short bursts. Most of Inner Mongolia is a plateau averaging around in altitude and covered by extensive loess and sand deposits. The northern part consists of the Mesozoic era Khingan Mountains, and is owing to the cooler climate more forested, chiefly with Manchurian elm, ash, birch, Mongolian oak and a number of pine and spruce species. Where discontinuous permafrost is present north of Hailar District, forests are almost exclusively coniferous. In the south the natural vegetation is grassland in the east and very sparse in the arid west, and grazing is the dominant economic activity.\n\nOwing to the ancient, weathered rocks lying under its deep sedimentary cover, Inner Mongolia is a major mining district, possessing large reserves of coal, iron ore and rare-earth minerals, which have made it a major industrial region today.\n\nDue to its elongated shape, Inner Mongolia has a wide variety of regional climates. Throughout the region, the climate is based off a four-season, monsoon climate. The winters in Inner Mongolia are very long, cold, and dry with frequent blizzards, though snowfall is so light that Inner Mongolia has no modern glaciers even on the highest Helan peaks. The spring is short, mild and arid, with large, dangerous sandstorms, whilst the summer is very warm to hot and relatively humid except in the west where it remains dry. Autumn is brief and sees a steady cooling, with temperatures below reached in October in the north and November in the south.\n\nOfficially, most of Inner Mongolia is classified as either a cold arid or steppe regime (Köppen \"BWk, BSk\", respectively). The small portion besides these are classified as humid continental (Köppen \"Dwb\") in the northeast, or subarctic (Köppen \"Dwc\") in the far north near Hulunbuir.\n\nInner Mongolia is divided into twelve prefecture-level divisions. Until the late 1990s, most of Inner Mongolia's prefectural regions were known as \"Leagues\" (), a usage retained from Mongol divisions of the Qing dynasty. Similarly, county-level divisions are often known as \"Banners\" (). Since the 1990s, numerous Leagues have converted into prefecture-level cities, although Banners remain. The restructuring led to the conversion of primate cities in most leagues to convert to districts administratively (i.e.: Hailar, Jining and Dongsheng). Some newly founded prefecture-level cities have chosen to retain the original name of League (i.e.: Hulunbuir, Bayannur and Ulanqab), some have adopted the Chinese name of their primate city (Chifeng, Tongliao), and one League (Yekejuu) simply renamed itself Ordos. Despite these recent administrative changes, there is no indication that the Alxa, Hinggan, and Xilingol Leagues will convert to prefecture-level cities in the near future.\n\nThe twelve prefecture-level divisions of Inner Mongolia are subdivided into 102 county-level divisions, including 22 districts, 11 county-level cities, 17 counties, 49 banners, and 3 autonomous banners. Those are in turn divided into 1425 township-level divisions, including 532 towns, 407 townships, 277 sumu, eighteen ethnic townships, one ethnic sumu, and 190 subdistricts.\n\nFarming of crops such as wheat takes precedence along the river valleys. In the more arid grasslands, herding of goats, sheep and so on is a traditional method of subsistence. Forestry and hunting are somewhat important in the Greater Khingan ranges in the east. Reindeer herding is carried out by Evenks in the Evenk Autonomous Banner. More recently, growing grapes and winemaking have become an economic factor in the Wuhai area.\n\nInner Mongolia has an abundance of resources especially coal, cashmere, natural gas, rare-earth elements, and has more deposits of naturally occurring niobium, zirconium and beryllium than any other province-level region in China. However, in the past, the exploitation and utilisation of resources were rather inefficient, which resulted in poor returns from rich resources. Inner Mongolia is also an important coal production base, with more than a quarter of the world's coal reserves located in the province. It plans to double annual coal output by 2010 (from the 2005 volume of 260 million tons) to 500 million tons of coal a year.\n\nIndustry in Inner Mongolia has grown up mainly around coal, power generation, forestry-related industries, and related industries.\nInner Mongolia now encourages six competitive industries: energy, chemicals, metallurgy, equipment manufacturing, processing of farm (including dairy) produce, and high technology. Well-known Inner Mongolian enterprises include companies such as ERDOS, Yili, and Mengniu.\n\nThe nominal GDP of Inner Mongolia in 2015 was 1.8 trillion yuan (US$272.1 billion), with an average annual increase of 10% from the period 2010-2015. Its per capita GDP reached US$11,500 in 2015, ranking No.4th among all the 31 provinces of China, only after Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin.\n\nAs with much of China, economic growth has led to a boom in construction, including new commercial development and large apartment complexes.\n\nIn addition to its large reserves of natural resources, Inner Mongolia also has the largest usable wind power capacity in China thanks to strong winds which develop in the province's grasslands. Some private companies have set up wind parks in parts of Inner Mongolia such as Bailingmiao, Hutengliang and Zhouzi.\n\nHohhot Export Processing Zone was established on June 21, 2002, by the State Council, which is located in the west of the Hohhot, with a planning area of . Industries encouraged in the export processing zone include Electronics Assembly & Manufacturing, Telecommunications Equipment, Garment and Textiles Production, Trading and Distribution, Biotechnology/Pharmaceuticals, Food/Beverage Processing, Instruments & Industrial Equipment Production, Medical Equipment and Supplies, Shipping/Warehousing/Logistics, Heavy Industry.\n\nUnder the Constitution of the People's Republic of China, articles 112-122, autonomous regions have limited autonomy in both the political and economic arena. Autonomous regions have more discretion in administering economic policy in the region in accordance with national guidelines. Structurally, the Chairman—who legally must be an ethnic minority and is usually ethnic Mongolian—is always kept in check by the Communist Party Regional Committee Secretary, who is usually from a different part of China (to reduce corruption) and Han Chinese. The current party secretary is Wang Jun. The Inner Mongolian government and its subsidiaries follow roughly the same structure as that of a Chinese province. With regards to economic policy, as a part of increased federalism characteristics in China, Inner Mongolia has become more independent in implementing its own economic roadmap.\n\nThe position of Chairman of Inner Mongolia alternates between Khorchin Mongols in the east and the Tumed Mongols in the west. Since the end of the Cultural Revolution, this convention has not been broken. The family of Ulanhu has retained influence in regional politics ever since the founding the People's Republic. His son Buhe and granddaughter Bu Xiaolin both served as Chairman of the region.\n\nWhen the autonomous region was established in 1947, Han Chinese comprised 83.6% of the population, while the Mongols comprised 14.8% of the population. By 2010, the percentage of Han Chinese had dropped to 79.5%. While the Hetao region along the Yellow River has always alternated between farmers from the south and nomads from the north, the most recent wave of Han Chinese migration began in the early 18th century with encouragement from the Qing dynasty, and continued into the 20th century. Han Chinese live mostly in the Hetao region as well as various population centres in central and eastern Inner Mongolia. Over 70% of Mongols are concentrated in less than 18% of Inner Mongolia's territory (Hinggan League, and the prefectures of Tongliao and Chifeng).\n\nMongols are the second largest ethnic group, comprising 17.11% of the population as of the 2010 census. They include many diverse Mongolian-speaking groups; groups such as the Buryats and the Oirats are also officially considered to be Mongols in China. In addition to the Manchus, three other Tungusic ethnic groups, the Daur, the Oroqen, and the Evenks also populate parts of northeastern Inner Mongolia.\n\nMany of the traditionally nomadic Mongols have settled in permanent homes as their pastoral economy was collectivized during the Mao Era, and some have taken jobs in cities as migrant labourers; however, some Mongols continue in their nomadic tradition. In practice, highly educated Mongols tend to migrate to big urban centers after which they become essentially indistinct with ethnic Han Chinese populations.\n\nInter-marriage between Mongol and non-Mongol populations is very common, particularly in areas where Mongols are in regular contact with other groups. There was little cultural stigma within Mongol families for marrying outside the ethnic group, and in urban centers in particular, Mongol men and women married non-Mongols at relatively similar rates. The rates of intermarriage stands in very sharp contrast to ethnic Tibetans and Uyghurs in their respective autonomous regions. By the 1980s, for instance, in the former Jirim League, nearly 40% of marriages with at least one Mongol spouse was a mixed Mongol-Han Chinese marriage. However, anecdotal reports have also demonstrated an increase in Mongol-female, Han Chinese-male pairings in which the woman is of a rural background, ostensibly shutting rural Mongol males from the marriage market as the sex ratio in China becomes more skewed with a much higher proportion of men.\n\nThere is also a significant number of Hui and Koreans.\n\n\"Population numbers exclude members of the People's Liberation Army in active service based in Inner Mongolia.\"\n\nAlongside Chinese, Mongolian is the official provincial language of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, where there are at least 4.1 million ethnic Mongols. Across the whole of China, the language is spoken by roughly half of the country's 5.8 million ethnic Mongols (2005 estimate) However, the exact number of Mongolian speakers in China is unknown, as there is no data available on the language proficiency of that country's citizens. The use of Mongolian in China, specifically in Inner Mongolia, has witnessed periods of decline and revival over the last few hundred years. The language experienced a decline during the late Qing period, a revival between 1947 and 1965, a second decline between 1966 and 1976, a second revival between 1977 and 1992, and a third decline between 1995 and 2012. However, in spite of the decline of the Mongolian language in some of Inner Mongolia's urban areas and educational spheres, the ethnic identity of the urbanized Chinese-speaking Mongols is most likely going to survive due to the presence of urban ethnic communities. The multilingual situation in Inner Mongolia does not appear to obstruct efforts by ethnic Mongols to preserve their language. Although an unknown number of Mongols in China, such as the Tumets, may have completely or partially lost the ability to speak their language, they are still registered as ethnic Mongols and continue to identify themselves as ethnic Mongols. The children of inter-ethnic Mongol-Chinese marriages also claim to be and are registered as ethnic Mongols.\n\nBy law, all street signs, commercial outlets, and government documents must be bilingual, written in both Mongolian and Chinese. There are three Mongolian TV channels in the Inner Mongolia Satellite TV network. In public transportation, all announcements are to be bilingual.\n\nMongols in Inner Mongolia speak Mongolian dialects such as Chakhar, Xilingol, Baarin, Khorchin and Kharchin Mongolian and, depending on definition and analysis, further dialects or closely related independent Central Mongolic languages such as Ordos, Khamnigan, Barghu Buryat and the arguably Oirat dialect Alasha. The standard pronunciation of Mongolian in China is based on the Chakhar dialect of the Plain Blue Banner, located in central Inner Mongolia, while the grammar is based on all Southern Mongolian dialects. This is different from the Mongolian state, where the standard pronunciation is based on the closely related Khalkha dialect. There are a number of independent languages spoken in Hulunbuir such as the somewhat more distant Mongolic language Dagur and the Tungusic language Evenki. Officially, even the Evenki dialect Oroqin is considered a language.\n\nThe Han Chinese of Inner Mongolia speak a variety of dialects, depending on the region. Those in the eastern parts tend to speak Northeastern Mandarin, which belongs to the Mandarin group of dialects; those in the central parts, such as the Yellow River valley, speak varieties of Jin, another subdivision of Chinese, due to its proximity to other Jin-speaking areas in China such as the Shanxi province. Cities such as Hohhot and Baotou both have their unique brand of Jin Chinese such as the Zhangjiakou–Hohhot dialect which are sometimes incomprehensible with dialects spoken in northeastern regions such as Hailar.\n\nThe vast grasslands have long symbolised Inner Mongolia. Mongolian art often depicts the grassland in an uplifting fashion and emphasizes Mongolian nomadic traditions. The Mongols of Inner Mongolia still practice their traditional arts. Inner Mongolian cuisine has Mongol roots and consists of dairy-related products and \"hand-held lamb\" (). In recent years, franchises based on Hot pot have appeared in Inner Mongolia, the best known of which is \"Xiaofeiyang\". Notable Inner Mongolian commercial brand names include Mengniu and Yili, both of which began as dairy product and ice cream producers.\n\nAmong the Han Chinese of Inner Mongolia, Jinju () or Shanxi Opera is a popular traditional form of entertainment. See also: Shanxi. A popular career in Inner Mongolia is circus acrobatics. The internationally known Inner Mongolia Acrobatic Troupe travels and performs with the renowned Ringling Bros. and Barnum and Bailey Circus.\n\nAccording to a survey held in 2004 by the Minzu University of China, about 80% of the population of the region practice the worship of Heaven (that is named \"Tian\" in the Chinese tradition and \"Tenger\" in the Mongolian tradition) and of \"ovoo/aobao\".\n\nOfficial statistics report that 12.1% of the population (3 million people) are members of Tibetan Buddhist groups. According to the Chinese Spiritual Life Survey of 2007 and the Chinese General Social Survey of 2009, Christianity is the religious identity of 2% of the population of the region; and Chinese ancestral religion the professed belonging of 2.36%, while a demographic analysis of the year 2010 reported that Muslims comprise the 0.91%.\n\nThe cult of Genghis Khan, present in the form of various Genghis Khan temples, is a tradition of Mongolian shamanism, in which he is considered a cultural hero and divine ancestor, an embodiment of the \"Tenger\" (Heaven, God of Heaven). His worship in special temples, greatly developed in Inner Mongolia since the 1980s, is also shared by the Han Chinese, claiming his spirit as the founding principle of the Yuan dynasty.\n\nTibetan Buddhism (Mongolian Buddhism, locally also known as \"Yellow Buddhism\") is the dominant form of Buddhism in Inner Mongolia, also practiced by many Han Chinese. Another form of Buddhism, practiced by the Chinese, are the schools of Chinese Buddhism.\n\nIn the capital city Hohhot:\n\nElsewhere in Inner Mongolia:\n\nOne of China's space vehicle launch facilities, Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center, is located in the extreme west of Inner Mongolia, in the Alxa League's Ejin Banner. It was founded in 1958, making it the PRC's first launch facility. More Chinese launches have occurred at Jiuquan than anywhere else. As with all Chinese launch facilities, it is remote and generally closed to the public. It is named as such since Jiuquan is the nearest urban center, although Jiuquan is in the nearby province of Gansu. Many space vehicles have also made their touchdowns in Inner Mongolia. For example, the crew of Shenzhou 6 landed in Siziwang Banner, near Hohhot.\n\n\nAll of the above are under the authority of the autonomous region government. Institutions without full-time bachelor programs are not listed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23885631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23885631", "title": "Ionospheric pierce point", "text": "Ionospheric pierce point\n\nMost global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) are subjected to errors induced by the ionosphere. Because ionospheric delay affects the speed of microwave signals differently depending on their frequency—a characteristic known as dispersion, delays measured on two or more frequency bands can be used to measure dispersion, and this measurement can then be used to estimate the delay at each frequency. \n\nThe principal source of the dispersion comes from the total electron content (TEC) in the ionosphere, along the line of sight from the satellite to the receiver. Because it is difficult to measure the TEC along the line of sight, instead a prediction can be made using a simplified model of the ionosphere.\n\nThis model assumes that the ionosphere is a thin, uniform-density shell about the earth, located near the mean altitude \"H\" of maximum TEC (approx. 350 km). Using geometry, a slant intersection with this shell model can be determined and a vertical TEC measurement inferred. The intersection between line of sight and this shell is called the \"ionospheric pierce point\" (IPP). The perpendicular projection onto the earth's surface is called the \"subionospheric point\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1841524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1841524", "title": "List of FIPS codes for Georgia (U.S. state)", "text": "List of FIPS codes for Georgia (U.S. state)\n\nThis is the list of FIPS codes for Georgia — FIPS codes for each county in the state. - Weatheradios with WRSAME can also use these codes (prefixed with a 0).\n\n\n *Note that Columbus is \"not\" an independent city as the number suggests. It is a consolidated city-county with Muscogee County, incorporating everything outside of Fort Benning.\n"}
{"id": "1497849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1497849", "title": "List of Google products", "text": "List of Google products\n\nThe following is a list of products and services provided by Google.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese products can be accessed through a browser on a mobile device.\n\n\n\n\nGoogle has retired many offerings, either because of obsolescence, integration into other Google products, or lack of interest. Google's discontinued offerings are colloquially referred to as Google Graveyard.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nApplications that are no longer in development, and scheduled to be discontinued in the future:\n\n"}
{"id": "47188892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47188892", "title": "List of airlines of Aruba", "text": "List of airlines of Aruba\n\nThis is a list of airlines currently operating in Aruba.\n\n"}
{"id": "20892390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20892390", "title": "List of national postal services", "text": "List of national postal services\n\nThis list of national postal services shows the individual national postal administrations of the world's states. All countries, with the exception of Bosnia and Herzegovina, have a single national postal service.\n\n"}
{"id": "53707089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53707089", "title": "List of universities in Montserrat", "text": "List of universities in Montserrat\n\nThis is a list of universities in Montserrat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28531813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28531813", "title": "Middle Eastern Geodatabase for Antiquities (MEGA)", "text": "Middle Eastern Geodatabase for Antiquities (MEGA)\n\nThe Middle Eastern Geodatabase for Antiquities (MEGA) is a web based geographic information system or GIS developed by the Getty Conservation Institute (GCI), with matching funds from the World Monuments Fund (WMF) and in partnership with the Jordanian Department of Antiquities (DoA). The GIS will serve as the primary tool for the Jordanian DoA in its ongoing work to inventory, monitor, and manage Jordan's vast number of archaeological sites.\n\nMEGA–Jordan is, at its core, an electronic inventory capable of maintaining information on site location and extent, site characteristics, and site condition in an easy-to-use manner. Ultimately it will help standardize and centralize information on archaeological sites throughout the country in a single system focused primarily on the aims of heritage management and research. MEGA–Jordan will become the DoA's preeminent planning and decision-making tool, addressing its needs and demands related to the legal protection of sites, site management, infrastructure and development control, World Heritage requirements, and development of national and regional research strategies. Infrastructure and development planning are especially crucial, and the GIS will permit the DoA to assess the potential impact of development projects (e.g., construction of buildings, roadways, pipelines) on or near archaeological sites. MEGA–Jordan is also seen as a tool for coordinating archaeological site data with Jordanian government ministries (e.g., Tourism and Antiquities, Planning, Agriculture) and for academic research.\n\nThe system offers various levels of user access based on user roles—i.e., some users will have full access to all data and the ability to add and edit sites and their attributes, approve new sites, run administrative reports, and export data, while others may only have access to search and view the data.\n\nThe MEGA system was built by Farallon Geographics using open source software, which means that its software code is not exclusively owned. This allows it to be updated, modified, and customized to meet future needs at little or no cost. It is fully compatible with all standard GIS tools, facilitating data sharing among government agencies and researchers. The core MEGA software has been designed so that it can, independent of the Jordanian system, be freely and readily customized for use by other countries. The system uses such open source technologies as PostgreSQL, PostGIS, GeoServer, OpenLayers, jQuery, and ExtJS.\n\n\nThe MEGA system was selected as \"one of the 100 most significant innovations of 2010\" by Netexplorateur:\n\"The Netexplorateur 100 is a pragmatic approach to the global digital revolution, based on the power of example.\n\"The selection recognizes 100 pioneers who produce mobile applications, web 2.0 sites, software or games, break new ground in culture or education, think up new forms of solidarity or citizenship or transform management methods and business models. These 100 Netexplrateurs are exploring new territories and creating new practices to map out and shape the digital era.\"\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22671046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22671046", "title": "Mount Bates", "text": "Mount Bates\n\nMount Bates is the highest point of Norfolk Island, an external territory of Australia, at 319 metres (1,047 ft) above sea level.\n"}
{"id": "722821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=722821", "title": "Musala", "text": "Musala\n\nMusala (); from Arabic through Ottoman Turkish: from \"Musalla\", \"near God\" or \"place for prayer\" is the highest peak in the entire Balkan Peninsula, standing at 2,925 m (9,596 ft). The summit of the Rila mountain range in southwestern Bulgaria, Musala is the highest peak between the Alps and the Caucasus and the highest in Eastern Europe bar the Caucasus. With a prominence of 2473 m, Musala is the 7th most prominent mountain peak in Europe.\n\nMusala is situated within the Rila National Park, which is noted for its rich flora, including species such as Macedonian Pine and Bulgarian Fir in the forests on its middle slopes, and fauna; it is one of the easiest places in Europe to see the wallcreeper. All major mountain ranges of Bulgaria can be seen from the top; these include Vitosha to the northwest, Sredna Gora towards the northeast, the Balkan Mountains along most of the northern horizon behind Vitosha and Sredna Gora, the Rhodope Mountains to the southeast, Pirin to the south, Osogovo and Ruy Mountain to the west, and Rila.\n\nA cosmic ray station was built on the peak in 1960 with cooperation from the Hungarian Academy of Science. The station conducted scientific experiments using a muon telescope. The station was destroyed by an electrical fire on October 29, 1983.\n\nWith an average annual temperature of -2.3 °C Musala is the coldest place in Bulgaria and the entire Balkan Peninsula. Temperatures stay below 0 °C for about 8 months each year. Due to this about 45% of the annual precipitation on Musala is snow, and snow cover lasts for about 200 days (more than six months). Three of the main rivers of Bulgaria, the Iskar, Maritsa and Mesta have their sources near Musala.\n\nThe next highest peaks in the vicinity of Musala are Little Musala (2,902 m) and Irechek (2,852 m).\n\nPeak Musala has an alpine climate with cold, long winters and short, cool summers. Usually, through winter, the temperatures don't exceed the freezing point for months. Snow cover lasts for about 8–9 months. Through the summer, temperatures rarely go above 14-15C. The summer season only lasts for 2 months, and snowfalls are possible. For the period 1931-2013, the highest recorded temperature was , and the lowest - . The average annual temperature is , which makes the peak the coldest place in Bulgaria.\n\nMusala Glacier on Greenwich Island in the South Shetland Islands, Antarctica is named after Musala Peak.\n\n"}
{"id": "7601139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7601139", "title": "Mátralába", "text": "Mátralába\n\nMátralába is a hilly region north of Mátra Mountains in Hungary.\n\n"}
{"id": "184243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184243", "title": "Ossetia", "text": "Ossetia\n\nOssetia (; ; ; , \"Oseti\") is an ethnolinguistic region located on both sides of the Greater Caucasus Mountains, largely inhabited by the Ossetians. The Ossetian language is part of the Eastern Iranian branch of the Indo-European languages family. The Ossetian-speaking area south of the main Caucasus ridge is recognized by most countries as within the borders of Georgia, but under the control of the Russian-backed \"de facto\" government of the Republic of South Ossetia. The northern portion of the region consists of the republic of North Ossetia–Alania within the Russian Federation.\n\n\nAlthough a Russian-mediated and Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe-monitored ceasefire was implemented in South Ossetia in 1992, the Georgian-Ossetian conflict still remains unresolved even though a recent peace plan proposed by the government of Georgia promised the South Ossetians larger autonomy and pledged expanded international involvement in the political settlement of the conflict. Meanwhile, the South Ossetian secessionist authorities demand independence or unification with North Ossetia under the Russian Federation while the international community refuses to recognize South Ossetia as an independent country and considers the area part of Georgia.\n\nOn Sunday 12 November 2006, South Ossetians (mostly ethnic Ossetians) went to the polls to vote in a referendum regarding the region's independence from Georgia. The result was a \"yes\" to independence, with a turnout above 95% from those among the territory's 70,000 people who were eligible to vote at that time. There was also a vote in favour of a new term for South Ossetia's president, Eduard Kokoity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16285648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285648", "title": "Outline of Saint Kitts and Nevis", "text": "Outline of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Saint Kitts and Nevis:\n\nThe Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis, also known as Saint Christopher and Nevis, is a sovereign federal two-island nation located in the Leeward Islands in the Caribbean Sea. It is the smallest nation in the Americas, in both area and population.\n\nThe capital city and headquarters of government for the federated state is on the larger island of Saint Kitts. The smaller state of Nevis lies about 2 miles (3 km) southeast of Saint Kitts, across a shallow channel called \"The Narrows\".\n\nHistorically, the British dependency of Anguilla was also a part of this union, which was then known collectively as Saint Christopher-Nevis-Anguilla.\n\nSaint Kitts and Nevis are geographically part of the Leeward Islands. To the north-northwest lie the islands of Sint Eustatius, Saba, Saint Barthélemy, and Saint-Martin/Sint Maarten. To the east and northeast are Antigua and Barbuda, and to the southeast is the small uninhabited island of Redonda, and the island of Montserrat, which currently has an active volcano (see Soufrière Hills.)\n\nSaint Kitts and Nevis were amongst the first islands in the Caribbean to be settled by Europeans. Saint Kitts was home to the first British and French colonies in the Caribbean.\n\nSaint Kitts and Nevis is the smallest nation on Earth to ever host a World Cup event; it was one of the host venues of the 2007 Cricket World Cup.\n\n\nGeography of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\n\n\nRegions of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nList of ecoregions in Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nDemographics of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nPolitics of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nGovernment of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\n\n\nCourt system of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nForeign relations of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nThe Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis is a member of:\n\nLaw of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nMilitary of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nLocal government in Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nHistory of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nCulture of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\n\nSports in Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nEconomy of Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nEducation in Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\n\nSaint Kitts and Nevis\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26044771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26044771", "title": "Outline of geography", "text": "Outline of geography\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to geography:\n\nGeography – study of earth and its people.\n\n\nAs \"the bridge between the human and physical sciences,\" geography is divided into two main branches:\n\nOther branches include:\n\nAll the branches are further described below...\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRegional geography – study of world regions. Attention is paid to unique characteristics of a particular region such as its natural elements, human elements, and regionalization which covers the techniques of delineating space into regions. Regional geography breaks down into the study of specific regions.\n\nRegion – an area, defined by physical characteristics, human characteristics, or functional characteristics. The term is used in various ways among the different branches of geography. A region can be seen as a collection of smaller units, such as a country and its political divisions, or as one part of a larger whole, as in a country on a continent.\n\nList of supercontinents\nA \"supercontinent\" is a landmass comprising more than one continental core, or craton.\n\n\nContinent – one of several large landmasses on Earth. They are generally identified by convention rather than any specific criteria, but seven areas are commonly regarded as continents. They are:\n\nSubregion (list)\n\nEcozone\nThe World Wildlife Fund (WWF) developed a system of eight biogeographic realms (ecozones):\n\nEcoregion\nEcozones are further divided into ecoregions. The World has over 800 terrestrial ecoregions. \"See Lists of ecoregions by country.\"\n\n\nTopics pertaining to the geographical study of the World throughout history:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTopics common to the various branches of geography include:\n\n\nGeographic feature – component of a planet that can be referred to as a location, place, site, area, or region, and therefore may show up on a map. A geographic feature may be natural or artificial.\n\n\nNatural geographic feature – an ecosystem or natural landform.\n\nEcosystem – community of living organisms in conjunction with the nonliving components of their environment (things like air, water and mineral soil), interacting as a system. These biotic and abiotic components are regarded as linked together through nutrient cycles and energy flows. \n\nNatural landform – terrain or body of water. Landforms are topographical elements, and are defined by their surface form and location in the landscape. Landforms are categorized by traits such as elevation, slope, orientation, stratification, rock exposure, and soil type. Some landforms are artificial, such as certain islands, but most landforms are natural.\n\n\n\nArtificial geographic feature – a thing that was made by humans that may be indicated on a map. It may be physical and exist in the real world (like a bridge or city), or it may be abstract and exist only on maps (such as the Equator, which has a defined location, but cannot be seen where it lies).\n\n\n\nSome awards and competitions in the field of geography:\n\nA geographer is a scientist who studies Earth's physical environment and human habitat. Geographers are historically known for making maps, the subdiscipline of geography known as cartography. They study the physical details of the environment and also its effect on human and wildlife ecologies, weather and climate patterns, economics, and culture. Geographers focus on the spatial relationships between these elements.\n\n\n\nEducational frameworks upon which primary and secondary school curricula for geography are based upon include:\n\n"}
{"id": "882382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=882382", "title": "Persianate society", "text": "Persianate society\n\nA Persianate society, or Persified society, is a society that is based on or strongly influenced by the Persian language, culture, literature, art and/or identity.\n\nThe term \"Persianate\" is a neologism credited to Marshall Hodgson. In his 1974 book, \"The Venture of Islam: The expansion of Islam in the Middle Periods\", he defined it thus: \"The rise of Persian had more than purely literary consequences: it served to carry a new overall cultural orientation within Islamdom... Most of the more local languages of high culture that later emerged among Muslims... depended upon Persian wholly or in part for their prime literary inspiration. We may call all these cultural traditions, carried in Persian or reflecting Persian inspiration, 'Persianate' by extension.\"\n\nThe term designates ethnic Persians but also societies that may not have been ethnically Persian or Iranian but whose linguistic, material or artistic cultural activities were influenced by or based on Persianate culture. Examples of pre-19th-century Persianate societies were the Seljuq, Timurid, Mughal, and Ottoman dynasties, as well as the Qarmatians who entertained Persianate notions of cyclical time even though they did not invoke the Iranian genealogies in which these precepts had converged. \"Persianate\" is a multiracial cultural category, but it appears at times to be a religious category of a racial origin.\n\n\n\n\nPersianate culture flourished for nearly fourteen centuries. It was a mixture of Persian and Islamic cultures that eventually underwent Persification and became the dominant culture of the ruling and elite classes of Greater Iran, Asia Minor, and South Asia.\n\nWhen the peoples of Greater Iran were invaded by Islamic forces in the 7th and 8th centuries, they became part of an empire much larger than any previous one under Persian rule. While the Islamic conquest led to the Arabization of language and culture in the former Byzantine territories, this did not happen in Persia. Rather, the new Islamic culture evolving there was largely based on pre-Islamic Persian traditions of the area, as well as on the Islamic customs that were introduced to the region by the Arab invaders.\n\nPersianate culture, especially among the elite classes, spread across the Muslim territories in western, central, and south Asia, although populations across this vast region had conflicting allegiances (sectarian, local, tribal, and ethnic) and spoke many different languages. It was spread by poets, artists, architects, artisans, jurists, and scholars, who maintained relations among their peers in the far-flung cities of the Persianate world, from Anatolia to India.\n\nPersianate culture involved modes of consciousness, ethos, and religious practices that have persisted in the Iranian world against hegemonic Arab Muslim (Sunni) cultural constructs. This formed a calcified Persianate structure of thought and experience of the sacred, entrenched for generations, which later informed history, historical memory, and identity among Alid loyalists and heterodox groups labeled by sharia-minded authorities as \"ghulāt\". In a way, along with investing the notion of heteroglossia, Persianate culture embodies the Iranian past and ways in which this past blended with the Islamic present or became transmuted. The historical change was largely on the basis of a binary model: a struggle between the religious landscapes of late Iranian antiquity and a monotheist paradigm provided by the new religion, Islam.\n\nThis duality is symbolically expressed in the Shiite tradition that Husayn ibn Ali, the third Shi'ite Imam, had married Shahrbanu, daughter of Yazdegerd III, the last Sassanid king of Iran. This genealogy makes the later imams, descended from Husayn and Shahrbanu, the inheritors of both the Islamic Prophet Muhammad and of the pre-Islamic Sassanid kings.\n\nAfter the Arab Muslim conquest of Iran, Pahlavi, the language of Pre-Islamic Iran, continued to be widely used well into the second Islamic century (8th century) as a medium of administration in the eastern lands of the Caliphate. Despite the Islamization of public affairs, the Iranians retained much of their pre-Islamic outlook and way of life, adjusted to fit the demands of Islam. Towards the end of the 7th century, the population began resenting the cost of sustaining the Arab caliphs, the Umayyads, and in the 8th century, a general Iranian uprising—led by Abu Muslim Khorrasani—brought another Arab family, the Abbasids, to the Caliph's throne.\n\nUnder the Abbasids, the capital shifted from Syria to Iraq, which had once been part of the Sassanid Empire and was still considered to be part of the Iranian cultural domain. Persian culture, and the customs of the Persian Barmakid viziers, became the style of the ruling elite. Politically, the Abbasids soon started losing their control over Iranians. The governors of Khurasan, the Tahirids, though appointed by the caliph, were effectively independent. When the Persian Saffarids from Sistan freed the eastern lands, the Buyyids, the Ziyarids and the Samanids in Western Iran, Mazandaran and the north-east respectively, declared their independence.\n\nThe separation of the eastern territories from Baghdad was expressed in a distinctive Persianate culture that became dominant in west, central, and south Asia, and was the source of innovations elsewhere in the Islamic world. The Persianate culture was marked by the use of the New Persian language as a medium of administration and intellectual discourse, by the rise of Persianised-Turks to military control, by the new political importance of non-Arab ulama and by the development of an ethnically composite Islamic society.\n\nPahlavi was the \"lingua franca\" of the Sassanian Empire before the Arab invasion, but towards the end of the 7th and the beginning of the 8th century Arabic became a medium of literary expression. In the 9th century, a New Persian language emerged as the idiom of administration and literature. The Tahirid and Saffarid dynasties continued using Persian as an informal language, although for them Arabic was the \"language for recording anything worthwhile, from poetry to science\", but the Samanids made Persian a language of learning and formal discourse. The language that appeared in the 9th and 10th centuries was a new form of Persian, derivative of the Middle-Persian of pre-Islamic times, but enriched amply by Arabic vocabulary and written in the Arabic script.\n\nThe Persian language, according to Marshall Hodgson in his \"The Venture of Islam\", was to form the chief model for the rise of still other languages to the literary level. Like Turkish, most of the more local languages of high culture that later emerged among Muslims depended upon Persian (Urdu being a prime example). One may call these traditions, carried in Persian or reflecting Persian inspiration, ‘Persianate’ by extension. This seems to be the origin of the term \"Persianate\".\n\nThe Iranian dynasty of the Samanids began recording its court affairs in Persian as well as Arabic, and the earliest great poetry in New Persian was written for the Samanid court. The Samanids encouraged translation of religious works from Arabic into Persian. In addition, the learned authorities of Islam, the \"ulama\", began using the Persian \"lingua franca\" in public. The crowning literary achievement in the early New Persian language was the \"Shahnameh\" (Book of Kings), presented by its author Ferdowsi to the court of Mahmud of Ghazni (998–1030). This was a kind of Iranian nationalistic resurrection: Ferdowsi galvanized Persian nationalistic sentiment by invoking pre-Islamic Persian heroic imagery and enshrined in literary form the most treasured folk stories.\n\nFerdowsi's \"Shahnameh\" enjoyed a special status in Iranian courtly culture as a historical narrative as well as a mythical one. The powerful effect that this text came to have on the poets of this period is partly due to the value that was attached to it as a legitimizing force, especially for new rulers in the Eastern Islamic world:\n\nThe Persianate culture that emerged under the Samanids in Khorasan, in northeast Persia and the borderlands of Turkistan exposed the Turks to Persianate culture; The incorporation of the Turks into the main body of the Middle Eastern Islamic civilization, which was followed by the Ghaznavids, thus began in Khorasan; \"not only did the inhabitants of Khurasan not succumb to the language of the nomadic invaders, but they imposed their own tongue on them. The region could even assimilate the Turkic Ghaznavids and Seljuks (11th and 12th centuries), the Timurids (14th and 15th centuries), and the Qajars (19th and 20th centuries).\n\nThe Ghaznavids, the rivals and future successors of the Samanids, ruled over the southeastern extremities of Samanid territories from the city of Ghazni. Persian scholars and artists flocked to their court, and the Ghaznavids became patrons of Persianate culture. The Ghaznavids took with them Persianate culture as they subjugated Western and Southern Asia . Apart from Ferdowsi, Rumi, Abu Ali Sina, Al-Biruni, Unsuri Balkhi, Farrukhi Sistani, Sanayi Ghaznawi and Abu Sahl Testari were among the great Iranian scientists and poets of the period under Ghaznavid patronage.\n\nPersianate culture was carried by successive dynasties into Western and Southern Asia, particularly by the Persianized Seljuqs (1040–1118) and their successor states, who presided over Iran, Syria, and Anatolia until the 13th century, and by the Ghaznavids, who in the same period dominated Greater Khorasan and parts of India. These two dynasties together drew the centers of the Islamic world eastward. The institutions stabilized Islamic society into a form that would persist, at least in Western Asia, until the 20th century.\n\nThe Ghaznavids moved their capital from Ghazni to Lahore in modern Pakistan, which they turned into another center of Islamic culture. Under their patronage, poets and scholars from Kashgar, Bukhara, Samarkand, Baghdad, Nishapur, Amol and Ghazni congregated in Lahore. Thus, the Persian language and Persianate culture was brought deep into India and carried further in the 13th century. The Seljuqs won a decisive victory over the Ghaznavids and swept into Khorasan; they brought Persianate culture westward into western Persia, Iraq, Anatolia, and Syria. Iran proper along with Central Asia became the heartland of Persian language and culture.\n\nAs the Seljuqs came to dominate western Asia, their courts were Persianized as far west as the Mediterranean Sea. Under their rule, many pre-Islamic Iranian traditional arts like Sassanid architecture were resurrected, and great Iranian scholars were patronized. At the same time, the Islamic religious institutions became more organized and Sunni orthodoxy became more codified.\n\nThe Persian jurist and theologian Al-Ghazali was among the scholars at the Seljuq court who proposed a synthesis of Sufism and Sharia, which became the basis for a richer Islamic theology. Formulating the Sunni concept of division between temporal and religious authorities, he provided a theological basis for the existence of the Sultanate, a temporal office alongside the Caliphate, which at that time was merely a religious office. The main institutional means of establishing a consensus of the \"ulama\" on these dogmatic issues was the Nezamiyeh, better known as the \"madrasas\", named after its founder Khwajeh Nizam al-Mulk, a Persian vizier of the Seljuqs. These schools became the means of uniting Sunni \"ulama\", who legitimized the rule of the Sultans. The bureaucracies were staffed by graduates of the madrasas, so both the \"ulama\" and the bureaucracies were under the influence of esteemed professors at the \"madrasas\".\n\nAs the result of the impacts of Persian literature as well as to further political ambitions, it became a custom for rulers in the Persianate lands to not only commission a copy of the \"Shahnameh\", but also to have his own epic, allowing court poets to attempt to reach the level of Ferdowsi:\n\nIranian and Persianate poets received the \"Shahnameh\" and modeled themselves after it. Murtazavi formulates three categories of such works too: poets who took up material not covered in the epic, poets who eulogized their patrons and their ancestors in \"masnavi\" form for monetary reward, and poets who wrote poems for rulers who saw themselves as heroes in the \"Shahnameh\", echoing the earlier Samanid trend of patronizing the Shahnameh for legitimizing texts.\n\nFirst, Persian poets attempted to continue the chronology to a later period, such as the \"Zafar-Namah\" of the Ilkhanid historian Hamdollah Mostowfi (d. 1334 or 1335), which deals with Iranian history from the Arab conquest to the Mongols and is longer than Ferdowsi's work. The literary value of these works must be considered on an individual basis as Rypka cautions: \"all these numerous epics cannot be assessed very highly, to say nothing of those works that were substantially (or literally) copies of Ferdowsi. There are however exceptions, such as the \"Zafar-Nameh\" of Hamdu'llah Mustaufi a historically valuable continuation of the Shah-nama\" and the \"Shahanshahnamah\" (or \"Changiznamah\") of Ahmad Tabrizi in 1337–38, which is a history of the Mongols written for Abu Sa'id.\n\nSecond, poets versified the history of a contemporary ruler for reward, such as the \"Ghazannameh\" written in 1361–62 by Nur al-Din ibn Shams al-Din. Third, heroes not treated in the \"Shahnameh\" and those having minor roles in it became the subjects of their own epics, such as the 11th-century \"Garshāspnāmeh\" by Asadi Tusi. This tradition, chiefly a Timurid one, resulted in the creation of Islamic epics of conquests as discussed by Marjan Molé. Also see the classification employed by Z. Safa for epics: \"milli\" (national, those inspired by Ferdowsi's epic), \"tarikhi\" (historical, those written in imitation of Nizami's Iskandarnamah) and \"dini\" for religious works. The other source of inspiration for Persianate culture was another Persian poet, Nizami, a most admired, illustrated and imitated writer of romantic \"masnavis\".\n\nAlong with Ferdowsi's and Nizami's works, Amir Khusraw Dehlavi's \"khamseh\" came to enjoy tremendous prestige, and multiple copies of it were produced at Persianized courts. Seyller has a useful catalog of all known copies of this text.\n\nThe culture of the Persianate world in the 13th, 14th, and 15th centuries inadvertently benefited by the invading hordes of Asia. The Mongols under Genghis Khan (1220–58) and Timur (\"Tamerlane\", 1336–1405) stimulated the development of Persianate culture in Central and West Asia, because of the new concentrations of specialists of high culture created by the invasions. Many Iranians sought refuge in a few safe havens, particularly India, where scholars, poets, musicians, and fine artisans intermingled; because of the broad peace secured by the imperial systems established by the Ilkhanids and Timurids, scholars and artists, ideas and skills, and fine books and artifacts circulated freely over a wide area. The Ilkhanids and Timurids were patrons of Persianate high culture. Under their rule new styles of architecture based on pre-Islamic Iranian traditions were developed, Persian literature was encouraged and schools of miniature painting and book production were established at Herat, Tabriz and Esfahan.\n\nIn the 16th century, Persianate culture became sharply distinct from the Arab world to the west, the dividing zone falling along the Euphrates. Socially the Persianate world was marked by a system of ethnologically defined elite statuses: the rulers and their soldiery were non-Iranians in origin, but the administrative cadres and literati were Iranians. Cultural affairs were marked by a characteristic pattern of language use: New Persian was the language of state affairs, scholarship and literature and Arabic the language of religion.\n\nThe Safavid dynasty ascended to predominance in Iran in the 16th century—the first native Iranian dynasty since the Buyyids. The Safavids, who were of mixed Kurdish, Turkic, Georgian, Circassian and Pontic Greek ancestry, moved to the Ardabil region in the 11th century. They re-asserted the Persian identity over many parts of West Asia and Central Asia, establishing an independent Persian state, and patronizing Persian culture They made Iran the spiritual bastion of Shi’ism against the onslaughts of orthodox Sunni Islam, and a repository of Persian cultural traditions and self-awareness of Persian identity.\n\nThe founder of the dynasty, Shah Isma'il, adopted the title of Persian Emperor \"Pādišah-ī Īrān\", with its implicit notion of an Iranian state stretching from Afghanistan as far as the Euphrates and the North Caucasus, and from the Oxus to the southern territories of the Persian Gulf. Shah Isma'il's successors went further and adopted the title of \"Shāhanshāh\" (king of kings). The Safavid kings considered themselves, like their predecessors the Sassanid Emperors, the \"khudāygān\" (the shadow of God on earth). They revived Sassanid architecture, build grand mosques and elegant \"charbagh\" gardens, collected books (one Safavid ruler had a library of 3,000 volumes), and patronized \"Men of the Pen\" The Safavids introduced Shiism into Persia to distinguish Persian society from the Ottomans, their Sunni archrivals to the west.\n\nAt the beginning of the 14th century, the Ottomans rose to predominance in Asia Minor. The Ottomans patronized Persian literature for five and a half centuries and attracted great numbers of writers and artists, especially in the 16th century. One of the most renowned Persian poets in the Ottoman court was Fethullah Arifi Çelebi, also a painter and historian, and the author of the \"Süleymanname\" (or \"Suleyman-nama\"), a biography of Süleyman the Magnificent. At the end of the 17th century, they gave up Persian as the court and administrative language, using Turkish instead; a decision that shocked the highly Persianized Mughals in India. The Ottoman Sultan Suleyman wrote an entire divan in Persian language. According to Hodgson:\n\nToynbee's assessment of the role of the Persian language is worth quoting in more detail, from \"A Study of History\":\n\nE. J. W. Gibb is the author of the standard \"A Literary History of Ottoman Poetry\" in six volumes, whose name has lived on in an important series of publications of Arabic, Persian, and Turkish texts, the Gibb Memorial Series. Gibb classifies Ottoman poetry between the \"Old School\", from the 14th century to about the middle of the 19th century, during which time Persian influence was dominant; and the \"Modern School\", which came into being as a result of the Western impact. According to Gibb in the introduction (Volume I):\n\nThe Saljuqs had, in the words of the same author:\n\nIn general, from its earliest days, Persian culture was brought into the Subcontinent (or South Asia) by various Persianised Turkic and Afghan dynasties. South Asian society was enriched by the influx of Persian-speaking and Islamic scholars, historians, architects, musicians, and other specialists of high Persianate culture who fled the Mongol devastation. The sultans of Delhi, who were of Turko-Afghan origin, modeled their lifestyles after the Persian upper classes. They patronized Persian literature and music, but became especially notable for their architecture, because their builders drew from Irano-Islamic architecture, combining it with Indian traditions to produce a profusion of mosques, palaces, and tombs unmatched in any other Islamic country. The speculative thought of the times at the Mughal court, as in other Persianate courts, leaned towards the eclectic gnostic dimension of Sufi Islam, having similarities with Hindu Vedantism, indigenous Bhakti and popular theosophy.\n\nThe Mughals, who were of Turco-Mongol descent, strengthened the Indo-Persian culture, in South Asia. For centuries, Iranian scholar-officials had immigrated to the region where their expertise in Persianate culture and administration secured them honored service within the Mughal Empire. Networks of learned masters and madrasas taught generations of young South Asian men Persian language and literature in addition to Islamic values and sciences. Furthermore, educational institutions such as Farangi Mahall and Delhi College developed innovative and integrated curricula for modernizing Persian-speaking South Asians. They cultivated Persian art, enticing to their courts artists and architects from Bukhara, Tabriz, Herat, Shiraz, and other cities of Greater Iran. The Taj Mahal and its Charbagh were commissioned by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan for his Iranian bride.\n\nIranian poets, such as Sa’di, Hafez, Rumi and Nizami, who were great masters of Sufi mysticism from the Persianate world, were the favorite poets of the Mughals. Their works were present in Mughal libraries and counted among the emperors’ prized possessions, which they gave to each other; Akbar and Jahangir often quoted from them, signifying that they had imbibed them to a great extent. An autographed note of both Jahangir and Shah Jahan on a copy of Sa’di’s \"Gulestān\" states that it was their most precious possession. A gift of a \"Gulestān\" was made by Shah Jahan to Jahanara Begum, an incident which is recorded by her with her signature. Shah Jahan also considered the same work worthy enough to be sent as a gift to the king of England in 1628, which is presently in the Chester Beatty Library, Dublin. The emperor often took out auguries from a copy of the \"diwan\" of Hafez belonging to his grandfather, Humayun. One such incident is recorded in his own handwriting in the margins of a copy of the \"diwan\", presently in the Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Library, Patna. The court poets Naziri, ‘Urfi, Faizi, Khan-i Khanan, Zuhuri, Sanai, Qodsi, Talib-i Amuli and Abu Talib Kalim were all masters imbued with a similar Sufi spirit, thus following the norms of any Persianate court.\n\nThe tendency towards Sufi mysticism through Persianate culture in Mughal court circles is also testified by the inventory of books that were kept in Akbar’s library, and are especially mentioned by his historian, Abu'l Fazl, in the \"Ā’in-ī Akbarī\". Some of the books that were read out continually to the emperor include the \"masnavis\" of Nizami, the works of Amir Khusrow, Sharaf Manayri and Jami, the \"Masnavi i-manavi\" of Rumi, the \"Jām-i Jam\" of Awhadi Maraghai, the \"Hakika o Sanā’i\", the \"Qabusnameh\" of Keikavus, Sa’di’s \"Gulestān\" and \"Būstān\", and the \"diwans\" of Khaqani and Anvari.\n\nThis intellectual symmetry continued until the end of the 19th century, when a Persian newspaper, \"Miftah al-Zafar\" (1897), campaigned for the formation of Anjuman-i Ma’arif, an academy devoted to the strengthening of Persian language as a scientific language.\n\nFrom about the 12th century, Persian lyric poetry was enriched with a spirituality and devotional depth not to be found in earlier works. This development was due to the pervasive spread of mystical experience. Sufism developed in all Muslim lands, but its literary expression reached its zenith in the countries located within the sphere of Persian cultural influence. As a counterpoise to the rigidity of formal Islamic theology and law, mysticism sought to approach the divine through acts of devotion and love rather than through mere rituals and observance. Love of God being the focus of the Sufis' religious sentiments, it was only natural for them to express it in lyrical terms, and Persian mystics, often of exceptional sensibility and endowed with poetic verve, did not hesitate to do so. The famous 11th-century Sufi, Abu Sa'id of Mehna frequently used his own love quatrains (as well as others) to express his spiritual yearnings, and with mystic poets such as Attar and Iraqi, mysticism became a legitimate, even fashionable subject of lyric poems among the Persianate societies. Furthermore, as Sufi orders and centers (\"Khaneghah\") spread throughout Persian societies, Persian mystic poetic thought gradually became so much a part of common culture that even poets who did not share Sufi experiences ventured to express mystical ideas and imagery in their work.\n\nAlmost every Persian artwork was accompanied by texts. In the late 14th and 15th centuries, political control in Iran passed to the Timurids, who moved the capital from Tabriz in the west to Samarkand and Herat in the east. In the first half of the 15th century, Iranian artists working for the Timurid sultans developed the highly detailed, jewel-like style of painting that signifies Persian painting, which became known as the \"Persian School of Herat\".\n\nWhen the Safavids came to power in 1501 and unified the eastern and western parts of Iran, the eastern and western Persian painting styles were mingled. The political unity under the first two Safavid rulers Ismail I and Tahmasp I, and the establishment of the Safavid capital at Tabriz in the west, led Persian artists to leave Herat. One of the most celebrated Iranian painters, Behzad, known as \"the master of Persian painting\", influenced many other Persian painters, including Reza Abbasi and Sultan Muhammad. He eventually painted perhaps the most extraordinary example of Persian painting \"The Court of the Gayumars\" from an opulent edition of the Shahnameh, commissioned by Shah Tahmasp c. 1522–1525. The painting depicts the legendary court of Gayumars, the first shah in the epic.\n\nIn Anatolia, a flourishing school of painting developed at the courts of Turkic rulers in the second half of the 15th century. The style of Ottoman miniature illustrations was derived from the Persian models, especially the painting of Shiraz. The long reign of the Ottoman sultan Suleyman enabled his successor Selim (r. 1566–1574) to enjoy the pleasures of the palace without much concern for military conquests. A painting of Sultan Selim II in the exhibition depicts him partaking in one of his favorite pastimes, drinking, which earned him the nickname \"Selim the Sot\".\n\nBy the mid-16th century, some Iranian artists from the Safavid Persian court had immigrated to Istanbul. Others had made their way to India in the retinue of the Mughal emperor Humayun, who returned to India in 1555 from exile in Iran. It was at the court of Humayun's son and successor Akbar (r. 1556–1605), however, that the Mughal style of painting came into its own.\n\nThe most important early project in this new style was the 14-volume \"Hamzanama\" produced by a team of Indian artists, both Muslim and Hindu, working under the supervision of Mir Sayyid Ali and Abd al-Samad, two Persian émigré artists. Akbari paintings incorporated the precise, linear style of Persian painting with the dynamism and vibrant palette of indigenous Indian painting. With the introduction of European-style perspective and modelling, Mughal painting became increasingly naturalistic from the 1580s until the mid-17th century, but the core of both Ottoman and Mughal painting remained Persian.\n\nThe term \"nowruz\" first appeared in Persian records in the 2nd century CE, but it was also an important day during Achaemenid times (c. 648–330 BCE), on which kings from different nations under Persian rule would present gifts to the emperor (\"Shahanshah\") of Persia[5]. It has been suggested that the famous Persepolis complex, or at least the palace of Apadana and the \"Hundred Columns Hall\", were built for the specific purpose of celebrating Nowruz. However, no mention of Nowruz exists in Achaemenid inscriptions (see picture). Later it became the national holiday of the Parthian empire, which ruled western Iran (c. 247 BCE – 224 CE). There are specific references to the celebration of Nowruz during the reign of Vologases I (51–78 CE), but these include no details.\n\nExtensive records on the celebration of Nowruz appear following the accession of Ardashir I of Persia, the founder of the Sassanid dynasty (224–650 CE). Under the Sassanid kings, Nowruz was celebrated as the most important day of the year. Most royal traditions of Nowruz, such as audiences with the public, cash gifts, and the pardoning of prisoners, were established during the Sassanid era, and they persisted unchanged until modern times.\n\nNowruz, along with Sadeh (celebrated in mid-winter), survived in society following the introduction of Islam in 650 CE. Other celebrations such as Gahanbar and Mehregan were eventually side-lined or were only continued by the Zoroastrians, who carried them as far as Turkey. Nowruz, however, was honored even by the early founders of Islam. There are records of the Rashidun caliphs presiding over Nowruz celebrations and it was adopted as the main royal holiday during the Abbasid period.\n\nFollowing the demise of the caliphate and the subsequent re-emergence of Persian dynasties such as the Samanids and Buyyids, Nowruz was elevated to an even higher status. The Buyids revived the Sassanid traditions and restored many smaller celebrations that had been eliminated by the caliphate. Even the Turkish and Mongol invaders did not attempt to abolish Nowruz in favor of any other celebration. Thus, Nowruz remained the main celebration of Persian lands by both the officials and the people.\n\nAs the broad cultural region remained politically divided, the sharp antagonisms between empires stimulated the appearance of variations of Persianate culture. After 1500, the Iranian culture developed distinct features of its own, with interposition of strong pre-Islamic and Shiite Islamic culture. Iran's ancient cultural relationship with Southern Iraq (Sumer/Babylonia) remained strong and endured in spite of the loss of Mesopotamia to the Ottomans. Its ancient cultural, genetic, historical relationship with the Caucasus endures to the present day, as is seen in Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia and parts of the North Caucasus, even after the loss of these regions to Imperial Russia following the Russo-Persian Wars in the course of the 19th century. The culture of peoples of the eastern Mediterranean in Anatolia, Syria, and Egypt developed somewhat independently; India developed a vibrant and completely distinct South Asian style with little to no remnants of the once patronised Indo-Persian culture by the Mughals. culture; and Central Asia, which gradually grew more isolated, predominantly remains Persianised to this day; Ottoman Turkey developed differently and Turkish nationalism has developed since the formation of Turkey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3239732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3239732", "title": "Podrinje", "text": "Podrinje\n\nPodrinje (Cyrillic: Подриње) is the Slavic name of the Drina river basin, known in English as the Drina Valley, located in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia.\n\nBetween 1918-22, Podrinje District, with its seat in Šabac, was one of the districts of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. District comprised north-western part of present-day Šumadija and Western Serbia. Between 1922-29, Podrinje Oblast existed in roughly same area also with seat in Šabac. In 1929, a large province of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia known as the Drina Banovina was formed with capital in Sarajevo. Drina Banovina included western parts of present-day Serbia and eastern parts of present-day Bosnia and Herzegovina. Following World War II Axis occupation in 1941, the province was abolished and its territory was divided between Independent State of Croatia and area governed by the Military Administration in Serbia. \n\nIn 1941 Yugoslav Partisans liberated the large western part of the German occupied territory. In this territory they proclaimed the Republic of Užice (Uzička Republika) with Užice city as centre of the Republic. This large free territory was island of freedom in Nazi occupied Europe. The Republic of Užice was short-lived. German troops occupied the territory again, while the majority of Partisan forces escaped towards Bosnia.\n\nWhen the Bosnian War broke out in 1992, the Drina Valley became the focus of a bitter campaign of ethnic cleansing by Serb forces which eventually culminated in the Srebrenica genocide in July 1995. \n\nAccording to the Sarajevo Research and Documentation Centre (RDC/IDC) Bosnian Atlas of the Dead Project, the Podrinje was the area of Bosnia which suffered the highest number of casualties. In 2007, Mirsad Tokaca, the RDC/IDC's director, reported that 28,666 deaths of a total of 97.207 recorded by June 2007, had occurred in the Podrinje.\n\nToday, one of the cantons in Bosnia and Herzegovina is known as Bosnian Podrinje Canton.\n\nTowns in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Republika Srpska and Bosnian-Podrinje Canton Goražde):\n\nTowns in Serbia (Mačva District and Zlatibor District):\n\n"}
{"id": "3273257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3273257", "title": "Prespa", "text": "Prespa\n\nPrespa (, , ) is a region shared between Greece, Albania, and the Republic of Macedonia. It shares the same name with the two Prespa lakes which are situated in the middle of the region. The largest town is Resen with 9,000 inhabitants. \n\n"}
{"id": "1265908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1265908", "title": "Pseudolite", "text": "Pseudolite\n\nPseudolite is a contraction of the term \"pseudo-satellite,\" used to refer to something that is not a satellite which performs a function commonly in the domain of satellites. Pseudolites are most often small transceivers that are used to create a local, ground-based Global Positioning System (GPS) alternative. The range of each transceiver's signal is dependent on the power available to the unit.\n\nBeing able to deploy one's own positioning system, independent of the GPS, can be useful in situations where the normal GPS signals are either blocked/jammed (military conflicts), or simply not available (exploration of other planets).\n\nFor planetary exploration, research being conducted at facilities including NASA Ames Research Center and Stanford University (see link at bottom) may allow a rover to deploy an array of pseudolites with no particular accuracy and still calibrate the system to centimeter-level resolution without human assistance. This would aid a rover's path-finding routines and increase the safe maneuvering speed of the unassisted vehicle. The concept is sometimes referred to as a Self-Calibrating Pseudolite Array (SCPA).\n\nOther applications of pseudolite arrays include precision approach landing systems for aircraft and highly accurate tracking of transponders.\n\nPseudolites have started to gain more and more attention in the context of indoor location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27339747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27339747", "title": "Radiometric calibration", "text": "Radiometric calibration\n\nRadiometric calibration is a general term used in science and technology for any set of calibration techniques in support of the measurement of electromagnetic radiation and atomic particle radiation. These can be for instance, in the field of Radiometry or the measurement of ionising radiation radiated from a source. \n\nIonising radiation is non-visible and requires the use of ionisation detectors such as the Geiger Muller counter or ion chamber for its detection and measurement. Instruments are calibrated using standards traceable to national laboratory radiation standards, such as those at The National Physical Laboratory in the UK.\n\nCount rate measurements are normally associated with the detection of particles, such as alpha particles and beta particles. However, for gamma ray and X-ray dose measurements a unit such as the gray or sievert is normally used.\n\nThe following table shows ionising radiation quantities in SI and non-SI units.\nSpectral data acquired by satellite sensors are influenced by a number of factors, such as atmospheric absorption and scattering, sensor-target-illumination geometry, sensor calibration, and image data processing procedures, which tend to change through times (Teillet, 1986). Targets in multi-date scenes are extremely variable and have been nearly impossible to compare in an automated mode (Kim and Elman, 1990). In order to detect genuine landscape changes as revealed by changes in surface reflectance from multi-date satellite images, it is necessary to carry out radiometric correction. Two approaches to radiometric correction are possible: absolute and relative (Lo and Yang, 1998). The absolute approach requires the use of ground measurements at the time of data acquisition for atmospheric correction and sensor calibration. This is not only costly but also impractical when archival satellite image data are used for change analysis (Hall et al., 1991). The relative approach to radiometric correction, known as relative radiometric normalization (RRN), is preferred because no in-situ atmospheric data at the time of satellite overpasses are required. This method involves normalizing or rectifying the intensities or digital numbers (DN) of multi-date images band-by-band to a reference image selected by the analyst. The normalized images would appear as if they were acquired with the same sensor under similar atmospheric and illumination conditions to those of the reference image.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9097173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9097173", "title": "Texhomex", "text": "Texhomex\n\nTexhomex is a marker showing the tri-point of Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico. The marker is off U.S. Highway 56 about one mile east on Texas State Line Road and the corner of Oklahoma State Line Road. There are no signs on Highway 56 in either direction.\n\nThe tri-state marker is in a pasture and can be accessed by walking over a cattle guard.\n\n"}
{"id": "4659289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4659289", "title": "Thunder Knoll", "text": "Thunder Knoll\n\nThunder Knoll is a reef knoll about 18 km in extent and composed of coral sand. It lies approximately 6 km west of the north part of Rosalind Bank. Depths over this bank range from 11 to 27 m.\n\n"}
{"id": "939516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939516", "title": "Tierra templada", "text": "Tierra templada\n\nTierra templada (Spanish for \"temperate land\") is a pseudoclimatological term used in Latin America to refer to places which are either located in the tropics at a moderately high elevation or are marginally outside the astronomical tropics, producing a somewhat cooler overall climate than that found in the tropical lowlands, the zone of which is known as the tierra caliente.\n\nIn countries situated close to the equator, the tierra templada typically commences at an altitude of approximately 750 meters (roughly 2,500 feet), and extends to about 1,850 meters (or 6,000 feet), where the still cooler tierra fría begins. These thresholds become lower as the latitude increases. The Peruvian geographer Javier Pulgar Vidal used following altitudes: \n\n\nDespite the English translation of its name, the tierra templada is not considered \"temperate\" by climatologists, for most of the areas so designated have average temperatures in their coldest months of above 18°C (64.4°F), thus making them tropical under climate classification schemes such as that of Vladimir Köppen. In the aforementioned scheme, many locations within the tierra templada are sometimes designated \"\" or \"Awb\", with the \"b\" denoting the fact that the warmest month has an average temperature of below 22°C (71.6°F), meaning that all twelve months of the year have averages of between 18°C and 22°C. Chinchina, Colombia, altitude 1,360 m, is an example of a place which would be labelled \"Afb\", as it has abundant rainfall year-round, while the climate of San José, Costa Rica, altitude 1,161 m, would fall under \"Awb\" since the latter city's rainfall regime consists of a wet summer and a dry winter. The \"temperate\" moniker in Spanish stems from these year-round warm temperatures that are not too hot (Tierra caliente) nor become too cold (Tierra fría). Various cities in this range have been nicknamed \"City of Eternal Spring\", most notably Cuernavaca, Mexico.\n\nIn the tierra templada project pat, coffee is grown extensively as a cash crop, with grains such as wheat and corn being cultivated for subsistence purposes - in contrast to the warmer tierra caliente, where tropical fruits predominate.\n\n"}
{"id": "4921299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4921299", "title": "UC Berkeley College of Natural Resources", "text": "UC Berkeley College of Natural Resources\n\nThe College of Natural Resources (CNR), a college of the University of California, Berkeley, is the oldest college in the UC system and home to several internationally top-ranked programs. CNR is considered to be one of the most prestigious schools in Agricultural Economics in the world, ranking #1 according to the Journal of Agricultural and Applied Economics, #1 by the Chronicle of Higher Education, #1 by Perry for its Ph.D. programs and in International Trade, #1 by the National Research Council in Agricultural & Resource Economics, and #1 by U.S. News in Environmental/Environmental Health. In environmental disciplines, QS World Rankings recognizes the University of California, Berkeley, as the world's leading university in Environmental Studies with 100 points in Academic Reputation. U.S. News also ranks it as the best global university for environment and ecology. A study of AJAE authors and their university affiliations found it to have the highest number of pages per research faculty member.\n\nEstablished in 1868 as the College of Agriculture under the federal Morrill Land-Grant Acts, CNR is the first state-run Agricultural Experiment Station. The college is home to four academic departments: Agriculture and Resource Economics; Environmental Science, Policy, and Management; Nutritional Sciences and Toxicology; and Plant and Microbial Biology, and one interdisciplinary program, Energy and Resources Group. Faculty include 40 Fulbright Fellows, 29 American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellows, 16 National Academy of Sciences members, 12 Guggenheim Fellows, 8 American Academy of Arts and Sciences members, 7 MacArthur Fellows, 4 Nobel Laureates, 2 Wolf Prize winners, and 2 World Food Prize winners.\n\nPlans for the creation of this public university were first developed at the 1849 Constitutional Convention, but when the State of California was established in 1850, it lacked the funds necessary to create such a school. Missionaries sent west by the Home Mission Society of New York, however, created the College of California and eventually transferred its ownership to the State in 1855.\n\nBy 1862, the State had secured the land necessary to establish a college as a result of the Morrill Act. This college was known as the Agricultural Mining and Mechanical Arts College, and opened formally in 1866.\n\nOn March 23, 1868, Governor H.H. Haight combined the resources of this college with the College of California to create the first University of California.\n\nThe Board of Regents began admitting women to the University of California in 1871, and the first woman to graduate was Rosa L. Scrivner, with a PhB in Agriculture. \n\nThe College of Natural Resources is located on the northwest end of the UC Berkeley campus, and comprises six main buildings.\n\nThese include the historic group of Wellman, Hilgard, and Giannini halls that composed the original college. This trio, known as the Agriculture Complex, is the most unified grouping of buildings on campus. They are on the National Register of Historic Places, and are visually unified by a Mediterranean landscape of olive and stone pine trees.\n\nThe first hall, Wellman, is a Classical Revival building designed in 1912 by John Galen Howard and named after Harry R. Wellman, a professor of Agricultural Economics, and acting president of the University.\n\nHilgard was constructed six years later by the same architect, and named after Eugene W. Hilgard, professor of Agricultural Chemistry and father of modern soil science. Its neo-classical design is inscribed with the phrase \"\"To Rescue for Human Society the Native Values of Rural Life\".\"\n\nGiannini Hall was designed by Howard's co-worker, William Charles Hays, through an endowment from the Bancitaly Corporation (now known as Bank of America) in memory of their founder, Amadeo Giannini.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2037472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2037472", "title": "USS Jeannette (1878)", "text": "USS Jeannette (1878)\n\nUSS Jeannette was a naval exploration vessel which, commanded by George W. De Long, undertook the \"Jeannette\" Expedition of 1879–1881 to the Arctic. After being trapped in the ice and drifting for almost two years, the ship and its crew of 33 were released from the ice, then trapped again, crushed and sunk some north of the Siberian coast. The entire crew survived the sinking, but 11 died while sailing towards land in a small cutter. The others reached Siberia, but nine subsequently perished in the Lena Delta, including De Long.\n\nThe vessel had begun its active career in 1861 as HMS Pandora, a Royal Navy gunboat. After more than a decade's service off the West African coast and in the Mediterranean, \"Pandora\" was retired from duty and sold as a private yacht to a British explorer, Allen Young. Young took her on two voyages to the Arctic, in 1875 and 1876, before selling her to James Gordon Bennett, Jr., proprietor of \"The New York Herald\", who changed her name to \"Jeannette\". Although she sailed to the Arctic under the U.S. flag as USS \"Jeannette\", subject to naval laws and discipline, Bennett remained responsible for the costs of the expedition.\n\nThe ship that became USS \"Jeannette\" began her life as a Royal Navy gunboat, built at the Pembroke Naval Dockyards in 1860. She was of wooden construction, in length and at the beam, with a draught of . Her tonnage, calculated by Builder's Measure, was 428 tons, with a displacement of 570 tons. She was rigged as a barque, but her principal means of propulsion was by a steam-driven screw. Her armament was five guns. After her launch on 7 February 1861, \"Pandora\" was taken from Pembroke to Portsmouth Dockyard, where she was fitted with her engines and boilers, and underwent trials before commissioning. On October 22 she concluded her trials successfully, achieving a speed of 9.25 knots over a measured mile.\n\nIn November 1861, during the American Civil War, the diplomatic incident known as the \"Trent\" affair caused the Admiralty to bring additional ships into active service. On 27 December 1861, \"Pandora\" was formally commissioned, as tender to , and the following day sailed for Liverpool where \"Majestic\" was berthed. The crisis was quickly resolved; \"Pandora\" remained at Liverpool until January 1862 before returning to Portsmouth.\n\nIn April 1863 \"Pandora\" left Portsmouth for service off the coast of West Africa. She returned after four years, and was transferred to the reserve. In April 1868 she was recomissioned, and returned to West Africa. Two years later she was transferred to the Mediterranean squadron, based at Valletta, Malta. This was her last commission in British naval service. In July 1872, after two years in the Mediterranean she returned to Spithead, where she was taken out of active commission and berthed in Portsmouth as part of the steam reserve.\n\nIn 1875 \"Pandora\" was acquired from the navy by the yachtsman Allen Young, for use in one of the last expeditions sent to the Canadian Arctic to investigate the disappearance, thirty years previously, of the Franklin Expedition. Young sailed in June 1875, seeking not only for signs of Franklin but discover and complete the Northwest Passage, then unconquered. He was unsuccessful on both counts; he found no traces of Franklin, but was stopped by ice in Peel Sound, and returned to England. One of the financiers for this venture was James Gordon Bennett, Jr., the owner of \"The New York Herald\". In 1876 Young took \"Pandora\" north again, for a second attempt on the Northwest Passage. He was diverted by a request from the Admiralty to look for the British Arctic Expedition under George Nares, which was engaged in an attempt to reach the North Pole from Smith Sound. The expedition did not require \"Pandora's\" assistance, and Young returned home. In 1877 Young sold \"Pandora\" to Bennett, who was planning his own Arctic expedition.\n\nBennett's plan was to sail a vessel through the Bering Strait, on the theory that the warm Pacific Ocean current known as the Kuro Siwo would provide a \"thermometric gateway\" whereby a suitable ship might reach the North Pole. This was the primary objective, but the ship was also equipped for scientific observation. By agreement with the U.S. Department of the Navy, Bennett would finance the expedition, but would sail under naval laws and discipline, and would be commanded by a naval officer, George W. De Long. \"Pandora\" was renamed \"Jeannette\", after Bennett's sister, and in January 1879 arrived at the Mare Island Naval Shipyard, to be fitted for Arctic service.\n\n\"Jeannette\" departed San Francisco on . She sent her last communication to Washington from St. Lawrence Bay, Siberia, on August 27. Shortly afterwards she encountered ice, of increasing severity as she pushed her way forward to Herald Island. On September 7 she was caught fast in the ice at . For the next 21 months, \"Jeannette\" drifted in an erratic fashion, generally to the northwest but frequently doubling back on herself. In May 1881, two islands were discovered, which De Long named Henrietta Island (after Bennett's mother) and Jeannette Island. On the night of June 12, when they had reached the pressure of the ice finally began to crush \"Jeannette\". De Long and his men unloaded provisions and equipment onto the ice, and the ship sank the following morning.\n\nThe expedition began the long trek to the Siberian coast, hauling their sledges with boats and supplies. On their way they discovered a further island which they named Bennett Island in honor of the expedition's sponsor. After reaching the New Siberian Islands and gaining some food and rest, the party took to their three boats on September 12 for the last stage of their journey to the Lena Delta, their planned landfall. As a violent storm blew up, one of the boats (with lieutenant Charles W. Chipp and seven men) capsized and sank. The other two craft, commanded by De Long and chief engineer George W. Melville with respectively 14 and 11 men, survived the severe weather but landed at widely separated points on the delta.\n\nThe party headed by De Long began the long march inland over the marshy, half-frozen delta to hoped-for native settlements. After much hardship, with many of his men severely weakened, De Long sent the two strongest, William F. C. Nindemann and Louis P. Noros, ahead for help; they eventually found a settlement and survived. De Long and his 11 companions died of cold and starvation. In the meantime, on the other side of the delta, Melville and his party had found a native village and were rescued. Melville persuaded a group of locals to help him search for his commander. He succeeded in finding their landing place on the delta, and recovered De Long's logbook and other important records but returned without locating the De Long group. In the following spring, Melville set out again, and found the bodies of De Long and his companions on .\n\nOn June 18, 1884, wreckage from \"Jeannette\" was found on an ice floe near Julianehåb (now Qaqortoq), near the south-western corner of Greenland. This indicated that an ocean current flowed from east to west across the polar sea. It gave the Norwegian explorer Fridtjof Nansen the idea that a properly-constructed ship could enter the ice in the east, survive the pressure during the drift, and emerge in the Atlantic, perhaps having traversed the pole itself. This theory was the basis of Nansen's \"Fram\" expedition of 1893–1896.\n\nAlthough the open Polar Sea theory ended with \"Jeannette's\" voyage, the ship's meteorological and oceanographic records have provided 21st-century climatologists with valuable data relating to climate change and the shrinking of the polar icecap.\n\nIn February 2015 the Russian adventurer, traveler and media personality Andrey Khoroshev announced that in consultation with the Russian Geographical Society, he was developing plans to locate and raise the wreck of the \"Jeannette\". Khoroshev told \"The Siberian Times\": \"This vessel lies at a depth of only , with the known location down to . So in modern day conditions, to find and raise it is not such a hard task.\" He imagined that the event would be a great boost for Russia's relations with America, \"which are not very good right now\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54310545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54310545", "title": "Vizelj", "text": "Vizelj\n\nThe Vizelj () is a short channeled river in north-central Serbia, the left tributary to the Danube. During its entire flow it runs through the suburban section of Belgrade, on the territory of municipality of Palilula.\n\nVizelj originates north of Padinska Skela, in the central part of the Pančevački Rit, a former marshland in the southwestern corner of the Banat region. The course of the river is in the north-to-south direction and is generally full of curves and meanders. It flows through Padinska Skela and Kovilovo, before it is being crossed by the Northern Tangent, in wider sense, a northern part of the Belgrade bypass. From there, meandering in the east-west direction, it flows on the west border of the urbanized area of Borča (neighborhoods of Mali Zbeg, Nova Borča and Stara Borča). After exiting Borča, it receives the western section of the channeled streams of Mokri Sebeš from the left and Veliki Kanal from the right side, crosses the embankment which protects the inland from the Danube and turns to the southeast. Flowing on the southern border of the neighborhood of Kotež, it empties into the Danube at its . It forms the entire eastern border of the \"ada\" of Kožara, and that entire section is projected as the future much larger Čaplja island. The final of Vizelj are also known as the \"Jojkićev Dunavac\", named after the former mayor of Belgrade Đurica Jojkić, as during his tenure that section was channel and widened in an effort to quicken the drainage of the Pančevački Rit. Weekend settlement Mika Alas is located at the very confluence of the Vizelj.\n\nThe length of the Vizelj, due to the channeling and artificial connections with the surrounding channels, has been reported as either or . The average width of the stream is and is deep. During the normal and high water levels, smaller vessels can enter the channel, but during the low waters it is inaccessible. However, it is used for kayaking since 1972, when the first kayak club in Borča was founded.\n\nInitial works on the river were done in the 18th century, during the reign of the empress Maria Theresa, as the area was ruled by Austria at the time. In the early 1960s, with the digging of the \"Jojkićev Dunavac\", the stream was extended and got its present form. As the area became rapidly urbanized after the World War II, which was not followed by the adequate communal infrastructure, the Vizelj got more and more polluted. It was partially cleaned in 2009. In 2012 sisters Nikolina Moldovan and Olivera Moldovan, who practiced on the Vizelj, petitioned to the mayor Dragan Đilas to do something about the worsening conditions of the river as it is important for the national sport. City decided to financially support the cleaning, though that is not administratively under the city jurisdiction. In August–September 2012 the stream was dredged, cleaned and the vegetation was cut. Yearly kayaking regattas have been organized since then. In 2014 the channel was cleaned again but by May 2015 it was again covered in vegetation and turned into the morass. The river was cleaned during the summer of 2015. Since then, locals and members of the kayaк clubs organized and regularly clean the stream, including the cleaning of the banks in April 2017.\n\nIn April 2014, during the repair of the waste water collector, toxic substances were poured into the river which caused a massive fish kill. In August 2014, the agricultural company PKB apparently discharged large amounts of ammonia into the Vizelj which nearly killed the entire fish population. Despite the pollution, the river is popular among the fishermen, but the recreational fishing is forbidden on the course of , between river's 3rd and 4th kilometer.\n\nIn the autumn of 2010 a flock of 30 swans landed on the Vizelj and have been coming every years since then, and the number of swans doubled. They became a local attraction. However, the area was plagued by the avian influenza in January 2017, which killed almost 40 swans.\n\nVizelj is name of the PKB's pig farm. Also, a new stadium of the FK BSK Borča, built in the vicinity of the river in 2009, is named Vizelj Park.\n"}
{"id": "1715996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1715996", "title": "Ø, Denmark", "text": "Ø, Denmark\n\nØ is a piece of land in the valley of the Nørreå in the eastern part of Jutland, Denmark. Its name means \"island\" (ø in the Danish language) and probably comes from the island-like approach to this piece of land, although it is completely landlocked and surrounded by meadows.\n\nØ is famous among lexicographers for the extreme brevity of its name: the single letter Ø.\n\n\n"}
