{"id": "38489388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38489388", "title": "Adam Alexander (sportscaster)", "text": "Adam Alexander (sportscaster)\n\nAdam Alexander (born July 11, 1973) is a television announcer with Fox Sports 1. He currently hosts NASCAR Race Hub alongside Shannon Spake\n\nAlexander was the studio host and play-by-play announcer for TNT's coverage of NASCAR with Kyle Petty, Wally Dallenbach and Kevin Harvick, and did college football announcing for Fox Sports 1 with Chris Simms, branded as College Football on Fox. He did pit reporting for NASCAR on TNT in 2009 before moving to the booth in 2010. In August 2014, he took over as one of two play-by-play announcers for the NASCAR Camping World Truck Series broadcasts for Fox, and was made full-time in October for the remainder of the season. For the 2015 season, Alexander was named to the lead for Fox's NASCAR Xfinity Series coverage with Michael Waltrip and a rotating guest analyst filled by select Sprint Cup Series drivers, a position he still holds to this day. Alexander along with Brian Till, Mike Joy, Vince Welch, and Ralph Sheheen rotated in the booth to call the 2015 Camping World Truck Series season.\n\nAlexander was the host of SPEED Center on the defunct SPEED channel. He was a pit reporter for the NASCAR Camping World Truck Series on the network. In October 2014, he took over hosting NASCAR Race Hub with Danielle Trotta.\n\nIn addition to NASCAR on TNT and Speed Channel, Alexander also worked for the Motor Racing Network for coverage of NASCAR as a studio host, pit reporter, and play-by-play. He worked on coverage of the Sprint Cup and Nationwide Series and did play-by-play for the NASCAR Camping World Truck Series.\n\nAlexander began his career at television station WEVV in Evansville, Indiana where he served as a public address announcer for the Tri-State Speedway and also called games for the Evansville Purple Aces men's basketball team.\n\nAlexander has been part of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Radio Network covering the Indianapolis 500.\n\nHe had a cameo in the 2017 film \"Logan Lucky\".\n\nAlexander grew up in Indianapolis, he is a resident of Evansville, Indiana where he graduated from Vincennes University and University of Evansville. He is not related to Blaise Alexander.\n\n"}
{"id": "12384711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12384711", "title": "Albazinians", "text": "Albazinians\n\nThe Albazinians (Russian: албазинцы, Traditional Chinese: 阿爾巴津人, Simplified Chinese: 阿尔巴津人) are one of the few groups of Chinese of Russian descent. There are approximately 250 Albazinians in China who are descendants of about fifty Russian Cossacks from Albazin on the Amur River that were resettled by the Kangxi Emperor in the northeastern periphery of Beijing in 1685. Albazin was a Russian fort on the Amur River, founded by Yerofey Khabarov in 1651. It was stormed by Qing troops in 1685. The majority of its inhabitants agreed to evacuate their families and property to Nerchinsk, whereas several young Cossacks resolved to join the Manchu army and to relocate to Beijing. See Russian-Manchu border conflicts.\n\nMuch uncertainty surrounds their migration to China. It is believed that, upon their arrival to the imperial capital, the Albazinians met the descendants of 33 Cossacks that had been captured by the Chinese in 1667 and several Cossacks that had settled in Beijing as early as 1649 and had become the parishioners of the South Roman Catholic Cathedral in the city. The veracity of this oral tradition about the pre-Albazinian Russian diaspora in China is open to question.\n\nThe Albazinians formed a separate contingent of the imperial guard, known as the \"unit of the yellow-stripe standard\". Their first leader was Ananiy Uruslanov, or Ulangeri, a Tatar in the employ of the Manchu. The Russian surnames Yakovlev, Dubinin and Romanov were rendered in Chinese as Yao (姚), Du (杜), and Lo (Traditional Chinese: 羅, Simplified Chinese: 罗). The Qing gave permission for Solon widows to marry the Albazinians. They married with Mongol and Manchu women. The women available for marriage to the Albazinians were criminals from Beijing's jails. Their priest, Maxim Leontiev, was allowed to hold divine service in a deserted Lamaist shrine. An old icon of St. Nicholas, evacuated by the Cossacks from Albazin, was placed in this unusual church, dedicated to the Holy Wisdom.\n\nThe Albazinian company was placed into the Manchu Bordered Yellow Banner and lived in the northeast of the \"Tartar city\" in Beijing. The Albazians were made into a Baoyi company, not a military company.\n\nAlthough the descendants of the Cossacks intermarried with the Chinese and gradually lost their command of the Russian language, the Russian Orthodox Church regularly sent missions to Beijing, starting in 1713. As a result, the Abazinians came to form the core of the Chinese Orthodox Church. In 1831, Ioakinf Bichurin reported that there were 94 Albazinians in the capital of China. Other Russian travellers noted that, apart from their faith, the Albazinians were thoroughly Sinicized and bore little physical resemblance to the Russians. By the end of the 19th century, their number was estimated at 1,000.\n\nThe Boxer Rebellion entailed the persecution of all Christians and Europeans in China. The Russian Orthodox Church claims that 222 Orthodox Chinese were martyred on 11 June 1900, including Father Mitrofan, who was later declared a holy martyr. An Orthodox chapel used to mark the burial place of the Chinese Orthodox martyrs in Beijing. It was destroyed in 1956 at the urging of the Soviet ambassador in China. Although several Albazinian families found it reasonable to move to the Soviet Union during the Cultural Revolution, the bulk of them still reside in Beijing and Tianjin.\n\nAfter the first siege of Albazin in 1685, most of the Cossacks were allowed to return to Russian territory at Nerchinsk, but nearly 45 of them decided to surrender to the Manchus. Many of these had native wives or concubines who were not allowed to leave the Manchu realm. They were sent to Beijing where they joined about 70 other Russian who had previously been captured or defected. They were enrolled in the seventeenth company of the fourth regiment of the Bordered Yellow Banner and given space in the northeast corner of the Tatar City of Peking (at a different place from the O-lo-ssu Kuan). This was a 'household' rather than line unit and had non-combat duties like bow-making. Some were used as messengers to Nerchinsk. Since most were illiterate they were of little use as translators or sources of intelligence.\n\nThey were given an old Buddhist prayer house which was turned into the church of Saint Nicholas. The priest was Maxim Leonov who had been captured on the Amur in 1673 along with seventy other men. The Russian government was apparently unaware of the Saint Nicholas church, since, during the Ides mission of 1692 they asked permission to build an Orthodox church in Peking. When Tulishen went to Russia in 1712 he carried a request for a new priest, Father Maxim having died a year or so before. He returned with an archimandrite and nine lesser clerics (to serve a congregation of about 50). By the time of the Izmailov mission in 1722, only one priest and three junior clerics survived. The fifth article of the Treaty of Kyakhta authorized the permanent presence of a church, a priest with three assistants and six students to learn the local language. One of these, Alexei Leontev, helped negotiate the 1768 convention of Kyakhta.\n\n"}
{"id": "4697148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4697148", "title": "Amdang people", "text": "Amdang people\n\nThe Andang (Amdang) are an ethnic minority of Chad and Sudan. Most Andang are Muslims. Some live in Chad's Biltine Prefecture. Andang speak the Amdang language. Many Andang are Arabicized.\n\n"}
{"id": "39756650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39756650", "title": "Azerbaijanis in France", "text": "Azerbaijanis in France\n\nAzerbaijanis in France () is a small Azerbaijani diaspora in France, are French citizens and permanent residents of ethnic Azerbaijani background. Most Azerbaijani-France have immigrated to France from the Republic of Azerbaijan and Iran.\n\nThe migrations of Azerbaijanis to France began in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. They are mostly asylum-seekers or political refugees, who came to France following the Iranian Revolution in 1979.\n\nStrengthening of France's position in Europe has accelerated the migration of the Azerbaijanis to this country since the end of the 19th century. Azerbaijani millionaires such as Haji Zeynalabdin Tagiyev, Musa Nagiyev, Shamsi Asadullayev and French businessmen created business together in France.\n\nAfter the decline of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic, France was one of the 10 countries where Azerbaijani migrants settled. Famous Azerbaijanis such as Alimardan Topchubashov, Ali bey Huseynzade, Jeyhun Hajibeyli, Umbulbanin settled in France.\n\nAfter the declaration of independence of Azerbaijan in 1991, the establishment of bilateral relations between France and Azerbaijan affected the activities of the Azerbaijani diaspora. The books \"Karabagh history and the present period\", \"Karabagh\" (collection of articles), \"Nagorno-Karabagh\", \"History of Nagorno-Karabakh and its documents\" were published in France.\n\nThe Azerbaijani-French Youth Association (AFYA) was established in 2003 by a group of Azerbaijani students studying in Paris. The first president of the association was Babek Ismailov, who studied in Paris at that time. In the following years, Mirvari Fataliyeva was the head of the organization. More than 50 AFYA members are Azerbaijanis, French and foreigners living in France. The main purpose of AFYA is to strengthen friendly relations between Azerbaijan and France, as well as to support the development of economic, scientific and cultural relations, along with sharing information about Azerbaijani culture, history, successes and even problems. The organization carries out activities and projects in Paris, as well as in different cities of France. Chairman of Azerbaijani-French Youth Association is Vusala Mammadzadeh.\n\nThe Azerbaijan Cultural Center has been operated in Strasbourg since 1990. The aim of the Cultural Center is to serve protection of the culture and folklore of Azerbaijani people by organizing cultural events and national holidays. Chairman of the Azerbaijan Cultural Center is Ahmed Mehribani.\n\nThe Society of Azerbaijani Students of France (SASF) was established in 1999 in Strasbourg. The main principles of the Association are to bring together Azerbaijani students studying and graduating in France, to demonstrate the truth about Azerbaijan, January 20, Khojaly tragedy, March 31, the Genocide of Azerbaijanis both to the French public and to the whole world. The Association prepares programs and articles about Azerbaijan and its problems on radio and television channels as well as web pages. Chairman of the Azerbaijani Students Association in France is Mammad Ismayilov.\n\n\"Azerbaijani House\" was founded in May 2005 in Strasbourg. The aim of the Strasbourg \"Azerbaijani House\", which combines 3 communities the Society of Cultural Relations with Azerbaijan, the Azerbaijan Cultural Center, the Society of Azerbaijani Students is to bring together Azerbaijanis living in the region, to help operate as a united diaspora and to promote the history, culture and art of Azerbaijan, to show the truth about it to the local community. The society has been operated in the center of Strasbourg and 500 meters from the Council of Europe since February 16, 2007. Chairman of the \"Azerbaijani House\" Society is Mustafa Alinca.\n\n"}
{"id": "38240342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38240342", "title": "Bahengic languages", "text": "Bahengic languages\n\nThe Bahengic (Pahungic) languages are a divergent branch of the Miao (Hmongic) languages. Speakers are among the ethnic \"Bunu\": Miao-speaking Yao people of China. \n\nPa-Hng (Baheng) has long been recognized as a divergent language. Benedict (1986) argued that one of its dialects constituted a separate branch of the Miao–Yao family, and Ratliff (2010) found it to be the most divergent Hmongic language that she analyzed. Mao & Li (1997) determined that two poorly known languages are closely related to Pa-Hng, though none are mutually intelligible:\n\n"}
{"id": "9701278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9701278", "title": "Black Bear Ranch", "text": "Black Bear Ranch\n\nBlack Bear Ranch is an 80-acre intentional community located in Siskiyou County, California, about 25 miles from Forks of Salmon. It was founded in 1968, with the slogan \"free land for free people\". It has been considered by some participants and commentators to be one of the more radical examples of communal living/intentional communities that grew out of the counterculture of the 1960s.\n\nBefore being converted into a commune, it was a ghost town that had been a gold mining settlement in the 1860s. The commune's legal ownership was held by one resident, Richard Marley, until in 1987 it was transferred to the Black Bear Family Trust, which limits development of the property and established trustees to oversee various specified duties. Black Bear Ranch was the subject of the 2005 documentary \"Commune\" by Johnathan Berman. The commune still exists today and continues to follow the basic ideals which motivated its founding. At the Summer Solstice Gathering in 2013, there were over 40 residents, the highest population in decades. It is located in a steep pocket valley in the Siskiyou Mountains.\n\nThe motivation behind setting up the commune was to create an intentional community that would reflect the vision of the Beats and the Diggers of San Francisco.\n\nAccording to the historian Timothy Miller, the community bought the property for $22,500 using money from a variety of sources including from supporters in the entertainment industry, as well as \"one large unexpected angelic gift\" and the \"proceeds from a major LSD deal\". The money from the entertainment industry was obtained through what Stephen Holden in \"The New York Times\" describes as \"emotional blackmail\", quoting Michael Tierra:\n\nAlthough they struggled at first due to a lack of planning, the community at Black Bear Ranch learned to live self-sufficiently, as the ranch was often snowed in for extended periods during the winter months, and was many hours' drive from the nearest city. The residents managed to gather large quantities of food and medical supplies to see them through the winter and were able to treat a variety of illnesses and medical problems onsite, delivering babies and performing veterinary care. The community homeschooled their children, and maintained tools like chainsaws and cars without a need for mechanics. To raise money to pay for food and supplies, they found work fighting fires in the nearby forests.\n\nMembers of the commune were key organizers of Ent Forestry, a co-operative which took tree planting and forest rehabilitation contracts with the US Forest Service and Redwoods National Park, and provided income to the commune for several years.\n\nDespite their remoteness, the community managed to keep in contact with a variety of radical groups including the Hells Angels and Black Power groups. There was a tension between those with a radical—even paramilitary—persuasion who wanted to pursue weapons training and possibly harbor radical political fugitives and the many pacifists. One of the founders of the commune, interviewed by the University of Kansas' 60s Commune Project and quoted in Miller:\nMiller also records how \"a strong sense of community\" including ritual peyote use led to a variety of social experiments being conducted including the abolishing of private property and also the institution of a rule to prevent \"coupling,\" which banned anyone from sleeping with the same partner for more than two consecutive nights, although this had disastrous consequences after a venereal disease spread amongst the community. Despite the ban on coupling (considered \"bourgoise decadence\"), traditional feelings of resentment came back when they tried to work out who had slept with whom in order to treat the disease:\nAt one point, a group called the Shivalila became part of the commune until they were asked to leave by the other members. \"The New York Sun\" describes them as a \"nomadic cult of acid-taking, baby-worshiping hippies looking for the perfect place to bring up children\" and they were led by a man called Gridley Wright.\n\nVery few rules were ever adopted by the community as Malcolm Terence notes: \"Anarchists are good at lots of things but making rules isn’t one of them.\" After a hepatitis epidemic, they banned sitting on the kitchen counter, and they also banned turning the handle on the cream separator \"because it used to drive people crazy when people would sit in the kitchen and play with the handle on the cream separator\".\n\nLife at the ranch continues on, with similar struggles about what communality means as took place during the early days. The rules have grown into a set of \"Traditional Guidelines\" which try to ensure \"the continued existence of Black Bear Ranch and its tradition of communal living in a way that cares for and nourishes each other and the environment\". Decision making by the group is managed through weekly 'Circles'.\n\nIn April 2017, the ranch made news when 15-year-old student Elizabeth Thomas and her alleged kidnapper and former teacher Tad Cummins were found in a cabin in Cecilville, CA near the ranch after a month-long interstate manhunt. They had stayed for two weeks at Black Bear Ranch but were asked to leave, after which they moved into the cabin.\n\n"}
{"id": "3870122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3870122", "title": "Child Support Agency (Australia)", "text": "Child Support Agency (Australia)\n\nThe Child Support Agency (CSA) was an Australian Government organisation which was established in 1988 to administer the assessment and collection of child support under the Australian Government's Child Support Scheme.\n\nIn 2011 the Child Support Agency ceased to exist when Child Support became one of the Master Programs of the Australian Government Department of Human Services. It is no longer a government agency as it is not authorised or empowered by the Australian Parliament in current legislation to assess, register or collect child support liabilities.\n\nThis is done under the current legislative framework by the Department of Human Services Child Support. The colloquial term \"Child Support Agency\" and associated acronym \"CSA\" are commonly used by some people purely as a habit following the cessation of the agency in 2011.\n\nThe CSA was responsible for administering the \"Child Support (Assessment) Act 1989\" which sets out the calculation of child support, based on a formula encompassing the income of the parent/s, care arrangements of the children, ages of the children, other dependants and a number of other factors; and the \"Child Support (Registration and Collection Act) 1988\" regarding to the transfer and collection of the calculated payments, including enforcement of unpaid amounts.\n\nThe CSA had approximately 1.5 million customers and employs over 4,000 staff. The system costs 3.4 billion dollars per \nannum to administer.\n\nWhile it was one of the most complained about Australian Government agencies, the Australian Child Support Agency was recognized as a world leader in terms of effectiveness and efficiency at administering child support.\n\nThe standard formula calculated the majority of the 1.5 million cases administered, the formula is set up in such a way that a new amount is generally calculated on an annual basis as incomes change and children grow older, or if there are any changes to the care arrangements, birth of new children and so on.\n\nIn some circumstances parents could make their own agreements as to what child support was paid. There were also provisions for agency review of individual formula assessments in special circumstances. The courts could also set amounts payable should either or both parents seek a court ruling on the matter.\n\nTransfer of payments could be made independently of the agency (approximately 46% of cases) or via the agency as either a voluntary arrangement, or through enforcement. Voluntary payments could be made through payroll deductions, deductions from welfare payments, internet transfers or payment at Australia Post outlets.\n\nUnder the Child Support Agency, enforcement could range from the involuntary garnishee from salary and bank accounts, to litigation and restrictions on overseas travel until payment has been made.\n\nThe CSA was established as part of the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) in 1988 to administer the Child Support Scheme.\n\nPrior to 1988, child maintenance was managed through the court system, this scheme proved costly to determine amounts and ineffectual in enforcing payment. In 1986, the Australian Government proposed reforms to child support. The proposed reforms were:\n\nThese reforms were implemented through two Acts of Parliament - the \"Child Support (Registration and Collection Act) 1988\" and the \"Child Support (Assessment) Act 1989\".\n\nIn July 2000, a reciprocal agreement on child support was enacted between Australia and New Zealand. If the custodial parent lives in Australia and the paying parent lives in New Zealand, then the CSA can ask its New Zealand counterpart, Inland Revenue Child Support (IRCS), to collect child support and pursue debt collection on its behalf. Likewise, if the custodial parent lives in New Zealand and the paying parent in Australia, then IRCS can ask the CSA to collect child support and pursue debt collection. The agreement also allows income information to be shared between two agencies to ensure the correct amount of child support is paid. \n\nIn February 2006, the Australian Government announced major reforms to the Child Support Formula. These reforms were introduced in stages over four years, the first major changes to the Child Support Formula took effect from 1 July 2008.\n\nThese changes recognized more diverse arrangements for care of children, began treating the incomes of both custodial and non-custodial parents more equitably, increased entitlements for teenage children, and made special provisions for the three years immediately after separation while parents re-established themselves financially.\n\nThe changes were not retrospective.\n\nIn 2011 Child Support became one of the Master Programs of the Australian Government Department of Human Services. It no longer exists and child support is now administered by the Department of Human Services Child Support.\n\nChild support is a divisive issue for many people. While the scheme has enjoyed bipartisan support from successive governments since 1988, lobby groups for those who receive child support as well as those who pay have complained about perceived shortfalls of the scheme.\n\nResident parent groups have complained that the agency remains ineffective against non-compliance from self-employed parents in particular (a group to whom many administrative enforcement procedures such as salary garnishees are not possible), while many paying parent groups complain that they are treated unfairly. In particular a recent program undertaken by the agency reconciled a number of income estimates from paying parents that were up to ten years old, creating large debts that were not appealable under any existing arrangements (courts only having jurisdiction for seven years of retrospectivity.)\n\nFurther criticism of CSA is the use of number of nights as a way to determine how much child support should be paid to the primary caregiver – though in certain circumstances, hours of care can be used if significant enough. The major criticism is that this method has been used as a loop-hole by the primary carer to increase the level of payment they receive. A typical scenario might be when a primary carer moves a long distance away from the other parent, creating barriers to access such as distance and increased cost. The Child Support Agency does not have the capacity to incorporate these nuances when determining a basic assessment, therefore adversely penalising the non primary caregiver. However this can be addressed through the Agency's Change of Assessment process depending on how much of the paying party's adjusted taxable income is spent on contacting the child.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "690168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690168", "title": "Click It or Ticket", "text": "Click It or Ticket\n\nClick It or Ticket is a National Highway Traffic Safety Administration campaign aimed at increasing the use of seat belts among young people in the United States. The campaign relies heavily on targeted advertising aimed at teens and young adults.\n\nThe Click It or Ticket campaign has existed at state level for many years. In 1993, Governor Jim Hunt launched the campaign in North Carolina in conjunction with a \"primary enforcement safety belt law\", which allows law enforcement officers to issue a safety belt citation, without observing another offense. Since then, other states have adopted the campaign. In May 2002, the ten states with the most comprehensive campaigns saw an increase of 8.6 percentage points, from 68.5% to 77.1%, in safety belt usage over a four-week period (Solomon, Ulmer, & Preusser, 2002). Recently, Congress approved $30 million in television and radio advertising at both the national and state levels. \n\nBefore 1980, usage of seat belts in the United States lingered around 11% despite volunteer and educational campaigns at local, county, and state levels. Between 1980 and 1984, individual organizations, public education programs, incentives and policy changes strove to increase the use of seat belts. However, these efforts failed to significantly affect usage in large, metropolitan areas, and in by the end of the effort, national seat belt usage had reached only 15%.\n\nIn 1984, New York became the first state to enact a mandatory seat belt use law, and by 1990 37 other states had followed suit. The vast majority of these laws were \"secondary safety belt laws\", meaning that an officer had to observe another traffic violation before issuing a citation for a seat belt infraction. Despite this, the national usage rate climbed from 15% to 50%.\n\nThe national television ad [airing] on several major networks features people driving in several regions of the country without their safety belts on. They receive a ticket, and then buckle up. The ads [appear] primarily in programs that deliver large audiences of teens and young adults—especially men. The programs include Fear Factor, WWE Smackdown, Major League Baseball, NBA Conference Finals, NASCAR Live, and the Indy 500.\nThe campaign is also stressing strict enforcement of safety belt laws, in particular, the \"Primary safety belt laws\", which allow law enforcement officers issue a safety belt citation without observing another offense. By January 2007 25 states had primary safety belt laws, and on average 88% of people in these states use safety belts as opposed to 79% nationally. New Hampshire, the state with historically the lowest safety belt usage, is the only state without an adult safety belt law. Massachusetts, the state with the second lowest usage, has only a secondary safety belt law, which requires officers to observe another driving offense before issuing a safety belt citation. Enforcement of safety belt laws of both types is to be made possible by checkpoints and saturation patrols that will detect violations of safety belt and child passenger safety laws.\n\nThe campaign is deemed a success by proponents in terms of increasing seat belt use. A survey conducted by Public Opinion Strategies found that 83% of 800 United States citizens surveyed had seen, read, or heard about the Click It or Ticket campaign. \n\nFigures released by the U.S. Department of Transportation after amplifying the advertising and enforcement campaign on May 19, 2003 indicated that \"National belt use among young men and women ages 16-24 moved from 65% to 72%, and 73% to 80% respectively, while belt use in the overall population increased from 75% to 79%.\"\n\nOpposition to the effort is primarily based on the belief that requiring wearing of a seatbelt is a violation of civil rights. For example, Prof. Walter E. Williams of George Mason University writes, \"The point is whether government has a right to coerce us into taking care of ourselves. If eating what we wish is our business and not that of government, then why should we accept government's coercing us to wear seat belts?\" Journalist Scott Indrisek has strenuously worked to oppose mandatory seat belt efforts, which he calls \"a black stain on America.\"\nAdditional objections settle specifically around the assertion that a seatbelt is a medical device, and because one is entitled to make their own medical decisions they should also be permitted to make their own decisions about wearing a seatbelt.\n\nTwo Internet-based groups were founded to advocate this line of thinking. Stick It to Click It or Ticket operated a website and discussion forum, as did The Coalition for Seatbelt Choice. Both groups provided various levels of assistance to citation recipients by encouraging them to take their tickets to court. The groups have sponsored letter-writing campaigns to the editors of newspapers against compulsory seatbelt statutes. Both sites have since disappeared.\n\nIn Maryland, former Governor Robert Ehrlich opposed spotlights used by police officers to see into vehicles at night to determine if seat belts were being used on the basis that this violated privacy. Nighttime enforcement was suspended at the governor's request. Nighttime enforcement was resumed by Ehrlich's successor, Martin O'Malley, hours after O'Malley took office in January 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12111", "title": "Demographics of Greece", "text": "Demographics of Greece\n\nThe Demographics of Greece refer to the demography of the population that inhabits the Greek peninsula. The population of Greece was estimated by the United Nations to in .\n\nGreece was inhabited as early as the Paleolithic period. Prior to the 2nd millennium BC, the Greek peninsula was inhabited by various pre-Hellenic peoples, the most notable of which were the Pelasgians. The Greek language ultimately dominated the peninsula and Greece's mosaic of small city-states became culturally similar. The population estimates on the Greeks during the 4th century BC, is approximately 3.5 million on the Greek peninsula and 4 to 6.5 million in the rest of the entire Mediterranean Basin, including all colonies such as those in Magna Graecia, Asia Minor and the shores of the Black Sea.\n\nDuring the history of the Byzantine Empire, the Greek peninsula was occasionally invaded by the foreign peoples like Goths, Avars, Slavs, Normans, Franks and other Romance-speaking peoples who had betrayed the Crusades. The only group, however, that planned to establish permanent settlements in the region were the Slavs. They settled in isolated valleys of the Peloponnese and Thessaly, establishing segregated communities that were referred by the Byzantines as Sclaveni. Traces of Slavic culture in Greece are very rare and by the 9th century, the Sclaveni in Greece were largely assimilated. However, some Slavic communities managed to survive in rural Macedonia. At the same time a large Sephardi Jewish emigrant community from the Iberian peninsula established itself in Thessaloniki, while there were population movements of Arvanites and Vlachs, who established communities in several parts of the Greek peninsula. The Byzantine Empire ultimately fell to Ottoman Turks in the 15th century and as a result Ottoman colonies were established in the Balkans, notably in Macedonia, the Peloponnese and Crete. Many Greeks either fled to other European nations or to geographically isolated areas (i.e. mountains and heavily forested territories) in order to escape foreign rule. For those reasons, the population decreased in the plains, while increasing on the mountains. The population transfers with Bulgaria and Turkey that took place in the early 20th century, added in total some two million Greeks from to the demography of the Greek Kingdom.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census the population of Greece was 10,964,020. Eurostat estimations as of January 2008 gave the number of 11,214,992 inhabitants in the Greek peninsula. According to the official 2011 census, which used sophisticated methodology, the population of Greece was 10,816,286.\n\nGreece is divided into nine geographic regions. The population of each region according to the 2001 census:\n\nThe total fertility rate is the number of children born per woman. It is based on fairly good data for the entire period. Sources: Our World In Data and Gapminder Foundation.\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\n† until 15/11\n\nGreece is currently experiencing a declining birthrate, with hospitals reporting 10% fewer births in the past 4 years.\n\nThe number of live births in the country has fallen nearly 15% and it's been unparalleled in Europe.\n\nGreece, as well as Spain and Italy, continue to face large numbers of illegal immigrants attempting to enter. Most illegal immigrants entering Greece do so from its Turkey border.\n\nDemographic statistics according to the World Population Review.\n\n\nDemographic statistics according to the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\npopulation: Greek 93%, other (foreign citizens) 7% (2001 census)\nNote: data represent citizenship, since Greece does not collect data on ethnicity\n\n\nGreek Orthodox (official) 81-90%, Muslim 2%, other 3%, none 4-15%, unspecified 1% (2015 est.)\n\n\n\n\nGreece has received a large number of immigrants since the early 1990s. The majority of them come from the neighbouring countries. As of 2011, the number of foreigners in an enumerated total of 10,815,197 people was 911,299.\n\nForeign-born by country (Eurostat):\nGreece has received many illegal immigrants beginning in the 1990s and continuing during the 2000s and 2010s. Migrants make use of the many islands in the Aegean Sea, directly west of Turkey. A spokesman for the European Union's border control agency said that the Greek-Albanian border is \"one of Europe's worst-affected external land borders.\" Migrants across the Evros region bordering Turkey face land-mines. Principal illegal immigrants include Albanians, Indians, Kurds, Afghans, Iraqis and Somalis.\n\nBeing part of the phenomenon of the aging of Europe, the Greek population shows a rapid increase of the percentage of the elderly people. Greece's population census of 1961 found that 10.9% of the total population was above the age of 65, while the percentage of this group age increased to 19.0% in 2011. On the contrary, the percentage of the population of the ages 0–14 had a total decrease of 10.2% between 1961 and 2011.\n\nThe population of northern Greece has primarily been ethnically, religiously and linguistically diverse.\nThe Muslim minority of Greece is the only explicitly recognized minority in Greece by the government. The officials define it as a group of Greek Muslims numbering 98,000 people, consisting of Turks (50%), Pomaks (35%) and Romani (15%). No other minorities are acknowledged and the Greek government has followed assimilatory policies and has discriminated against them. There is no official information for the size of the ethnic, linguistic and religious minorities because asking the population questions pertaining to the topic have been abolished since 1951.\n\nMinorities in Greece according to Minority Rights Group International: \n\nMinorities in Greece according to International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights (published on 18 September 1999):\nThe official language of Greece is Greek, spoken by almost all as a second language at least. Additionally, there are a number of linguistic minority groups that are bilingual in a variety of non-Greek languages, and parts of these groups identify ethnically as Greeks. \n\nLanguages spoken in Greece:\n\nAccording to the Greek constitution, Eastern Orthodox Christianity is recognized as the \"prevailing religion\" in Greece. During the centuries that Greece was part of the Ottoman Empire, besides its spiritual mandate, the Orthodox Church, based in Constantinople (present-day Istanbul), also functioned as an official representative of the Christian population of the empire. The Church is often credited with the preservation of the Greek language, values, and national identity during Ottoman times. The Church was also an important rallying point in the war for independence against the Ottoman Empire, although the official Church in Constantinople initially condemned the breakout of the armed struggle in fear of retaliation from the Ottoman side. The Church of Greece was established shortly after the formation of a Greek national state. Its authority to this day extends only to the areas included in the independent Greek state before the Balkan Wars of 1912-1913. There is a Muslim minority concentrated in Thrace and officially protected by the Treaty of Lausanne (1923). Besides Pomaks (Muslim Bulgarian speakers) and Roma, it consists mainly of ethnic Turks, who speak Turkish and receive instruction in Turkish at special government-funded schools. There are also a number of Jews in Greece, most of whom live in Thessaloniki. There are also some Greeks who adhere to a reconstruction of the ancient Greek religion. A place of worship has been recognized as such by court.\n\nGreek education is free and compulsory for children between the ages of 5 and 15. English study is compulsory from first grade through high school. University education, including books, is also free, contingent upon the student's ability to meet stiff entrance requirements. A high percentage of the student population seeks higher education. More than 100,000 students are registered at Greek universities, and 15% of the population currently holds a university degree. Admission in a university is determined by state-administered exams, the candidate's grade-point average from high school, and his/her priority choices of major. About one in four candidates gains admission to Greek universities.\n\nGreek law does not currently offer official recognition to the graduates of private universities that operate in the country, except for those that offer a degree valid in another European Union country, which is automatically recognized by reciprocity. As a result, a large and growing number of students are pursuing higher education abroad. The Greek Government decides through an evaluation procedure whether to recognize degrees from specific foreign universities as qualification for public sector hiring. Other students attend private, post-secondary educational institutions in Greece that are not recognized by the Greek Government. At the moment extensive public talk is made for the reform of the Constitution in order to recognize private higher education in Greece as equal with public and to place common regulations for both.\n\nThe number of Greek students studying at European institutions is increasing along with EU support for educational exchange. In addition, nearly 5,000 Greeks are studying in the United States, about half of whom are in graduate school. Greek per capita student representation in the US (one every 2,200) is among the highest in Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26890012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26890012", "title": "Dizi people", "text": "Dizi people\n\nDizi (also known as the Maji) is the name of an ethnic group living in southern Ethiopia. They share a number of somatic similarities with certain culturally (but not always linguistically) related peoples of south-western Ethiopia, which include the Sheko and Nao, the Gimira (She, Bench, Mere), the Tsara, the Dime, the Aari and certain sub-groups of the Basketo people. A. E. Jensen has gathered these groups under the label of the \"ancient peoples of southern Ethiopia\". They speak the Dizin language (part of the Omotic languages).\n\nBefore their forced incorporation into the Ethiopian Empire in the 1890s, based on their own statements and the evidence of numerous abandoned terraced hillsides, the Dizi are estimated to have numbered between 50,000 and 100,000. However, as Haberland observes, the imposition of an outside authority and its misrule led to a massive depopulation due to the abuses of the \"gebbar\" system, slave-raiding, \"famine, disease and a growing sense of hopelessness and resignation, engendered by a total absence of justice. These things not only caused the number of Dizi to shrink (in 1974 there were probably scarcely more than 20,000) but shook their whole culture to its roots.\" \n\nThe 2007 Ethiopian national census reported that 36,380 people (or 0.05% of the population) identified themselves as Dizi, of whom 4,968 were urban inhabitants. The Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region is home to 98.9% of this people. They are the majority of the inhabitants of the Maji woreda, and have notable minorities in the neighboring Meinit and Surma woredas.\n"}
{"id": "37546931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37546931", "title": "Ethnodevelopment", "text": "Ethnodevelopment\n\nEthnodevelopment is the means of countering ethnocide by enabling ethnic, minority, and/or exploited groups to revive values of their specific culture with a focus on strengthening their ability to resist exploitation and oppression and especially, their independent decision-making power through more effective control of the political, economic, social, and cultural processes affecting their development. Ethnodevelopment is a policy established in response to ethnocide, where indigenous cultures and ways of life are being lost due to large-scale development and exploitation in certain developing countries around the world. This large-scale development could include urban development in rural communities and exploitation of natural resources including building dams, mines, or clear-cutting forests. Typically self-led ethnodevelopment is favoured, where the indigenous peoples are involved in creating a plan for their future development and organization of communities in a way that follows their tradition beliefs and customs.\n\nOutside intervention on indigenous minorities can have devastating effects. The effects include the growth of the more dominant society and encroachment on the traditional lands and subsequent displacement of peoples from resource rich land to the peripheries; the destruction of normal means of livelihood and interactions with habitat; an increase in trade debts and a decline in self-governance due to new political, legal and educational systems and the deterioration of traditional religious and cultural values. The most common responses to the effects have been to retreat or assimilate, which can lead to extreme poverty, welfare requirements,social dislocation, alcoholism, and prostitution. Ethnodevelopment is proposed to end the increasing vulnerability of minority groups and produce a degree of economic, social, and political equality. One of the first steps in overcoming these trends is to reverse the notions about dominant Western developmental models and recognize the variability in traditional cultures, practices and values these populations have. The emergence of Neoliberalism in developing countries instigated a reduction of subsidies, and fiscal cutbacks that most indigenous and rural livelihoods were based on. In many Latin American countries with large populations of indigenous peoples such as Ecuador, Bolivia, Mexico, and Guatemala, the elimination of rural development programs in the 1980s and 1990s provided an incentive for indigenous outcry and protestations. Neoliberal policies of open markets in land, water, and non-traditional exports had extensive impacts on rural livelihood, especially the already impoverished and landless groups. While the idea of ethnodevelopment pre-dates the influence of Neoliberal development policies, it was only used in small sets of indigenous activists and NGO groups, but dissatisfaction over the social impacts due to new governmental policies on their traditional lifestyles brought such approaches to the forefront. This movement has been central in using ethnodevelopment policy to focus on bringing indigenous populations out of poverty. Indigenous responses to Neoliberal measures have been to propose alternate law proposals, nationwide protests, and new forms of organization including transnational coalitions that join multiple indigenous groups that are fighting for the same issues. Included in their ideas of development are culturally appropriate education that recognizes their own values and knowledge but also strengthens political structures, organizations and leadership.\n\nWith the increase in pressure from indigenous groups for more rights and provisions for their cultural independence causing global recognition of these issues. The World Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, and the European Union revised their policies to lessen their developmental damage to indigenous groups. The World Bank has also consulted with government officials and ethnic group representatives worldwide, particularly Latin America, Asia, and Africa on new developmental frameworks for tribal and indigenous people. The Betau Project introduced in Malaysia in regards to the improvement in conditions of the Orang Asli groups that traditionally occupy the jungles in small communities, was introduced to provide jungle security and integration of Orang Asli into Malaysian society. It is predicted that the 7,539 acre settlement with its own economic base, yet still linked to Malaysian settlements, will encourage a sense of community with communal farming and communal ownership. Villages that are relocated shall retain their own identity and leaders while families will gain 8.5 acres of their own land. Although the project seems to make allowances for traditional beliefs and customs there are still structural issues due to an hierarchical regional market which could resign Semoi peoples to the bottom or cause increasing dependence on government for welfare and support. In addition, the idea that voluntary resettlement can occur is not quite true in that the constant threat of displacement and reduction of their natural territory would force Semoi people to cooperate with this project due to the loss of their original land.\n\nAn example of ethnodevelopment in action is the case study worked on by Hogue and Rau(2008). They studied the district of Combapata, Peru which is located in the southern Andes. It ranges in altitudes and is vertically stratified into three distinct tiers based on the plant species found there that have agricultural potential. The citizens of the thirteen communities found in this area rely on agriculture, animal husbandry, and herding for their livelihood. This livelihood also depends on the Salcca River which provides the water necessary for the production of cattle, hay, grains, and vegetables and is one of the only clean water resources in the region. The current of the Salcca River is also viewed as an energy source due to its large volume of water and high altitudes. The Peruvian government proposed to build a dam in order to harness hydroelectric power from the river, which would mean the loss of agricultural and pasture land, and the displacement of communities that relied on those resources. The indigenous peoples of the Salcca River Valley rejected this idea as it would drastically change their way of life not only economically but spiritually as well. The Andean belief is that all sources of nature are living beings and are sources of health and spiritual well-being. The land and river are used in traditional ceremonies and festivals and are intrinsic to their daily life economically, socially, and spiritually. This initiated the beginnings of resistance by the indigenous peoples by use of their ethnic identity to protect their way of life and ensure that development occurs in a way that coincides with their beliefs. They wish to \"develop\" in a way that still respects their local concepts of morality and their relationships with nature and with each other. The indigenous populations of the Salcca River Valley were then forced to distinguish what they wanted for their communities and how they plan on achieving it. They were not opposed to development as to them \"development\" was an increase in their capital, improvements in education, social order, and organization. They wanted improvements that would not harm their social interactions or cultural forms. This has caused the community to push for organization, and has generated a goal for self-led ethnodevelopment and compelled them to unify and develop their own ideological framework which protects their environment and their culture.\n"}
{"id": "10866199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10866199", "title": "Eugene Fitzhugh", "text": "Eugene Fitzhugh\n\nEugene Fitzhugh (died August 21, 2007) A Little Rock, Arkansas lawyer and businessman.\n\nOn June 23, 1994 he pleaded guilty to trying to bribe David Hale. In exchange for his bribery plea, he was sentenced to 28 months, and prosecutors dropped charges accusing him of conspiring to defraud the Small Business Administration. He also received one year of probation, a $3,000.00 fine and lost his law license. The guilty plea was part of Kenneth Starr's probe into what is known as the Whitewater investigation and report. He came into front page National news as a result of the Whitewater investigations. He was sentenced with his colleague Charles Matthews.\n\nDavid Hale is a former Arkansas municipal judge, a former Arkansas banker and a witness in the Whitewater scandal trials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55476469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55476469", "title": "Grant Duwe", "text": "Grant Duwe\n\nGrant Duwe is an American criminologist and research director at the Minnesota Department of Corrections, as well as a non-visiting scholar at Baylor University's Institute for Studies of Religion. Duwe holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas and a Ph.D. in Criminology and Criminal Justice from Florida State University.\n\nDuwe's research on mass murder has examined its patterns and prevalence, the role of the news media in its social construction as a crime problem, and the impact of right-to-carry concealed firearms laws on mass public shootings. In 2007, he wrote the book, \"Mass Murder in the United States: A History\", an \"excellent historical analysis of mass murder in the United States\" that is still considered \"one of the most exhaustive studies\" that has been done on the topic.\n\nSince the publication of \"Mass Murder in the United States: A History\", Duwe has written articles that have focused on mass public shootings. In these articles, Duwe argues that while mass public shootings have not recently been on the rise, they have become more deadly. He has been critical of the methods \"Mother Jones\" has used to compile its mass shooting dataset and the conclusions that have been drawn from the use of these data.\n\nDuwe has published more than 50 research studies and program evaluations in peer-reviewed academic journals on a wide variety of correctional topics. He is the author of a 2017 report published by the National Institute of Justice on the use and impact of correctional interventions on prison misconduct, post-prison employment, recidivism, and cost avoidance. He is also a co-author (along with Michael Hallett, Joshua Hays, Byron Johnson, and Sung Joon Jang) of the book, \"The Angola Prison Seminary: Effects of Faith-Based Ministry on Identity Transformation, Desistance, and Rehabilitation\".\n\nDuwe has developed risk assessment instruments that predict sexual recidivism and first-time sexual offending. He is also the developer of the Minnesota Screening Tool Assessing Recidivism Risk (MnSTARR), a fully automated instrument that assesses risk for multiple types of recidivism for males and female prisoners. He received the American Society of Criminology's inaugural Practitioner Research Award for his development of the MnSTARR.\n"}
{"id": "51034937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51034937", "title": "Haik (garment)", "text": "Haik (garment)\n\nThe haik () is a traditional women's garment worn in Algeria region. It is similar to the niqāb, although it is usually white. It consists of a rectangular fabric covering the whole body, 6 meters by 2.2 meters in length, rolled up then held at the waist by a belt and then brought back to the shoulders to be fixed by fibulae. It can be white or black.\n\nThe word is borrowed from the Maghrebi Arabic word \"hayk\", which comes from the Arabic verb \"haka\" which means \"to weave\". First used in French in the form \"Heque\" (1654), it underwent many variations\"hayque\" (1667), \"alhaic\" (1670), \"eque\" (1670), \"haic\" (1683), \"hayc\" (1686). The word \"haik\" in French was at first of the feminine gender (1725) and became masculine in 1830.\n\nThe haik is of Arab-Andalusian origin, and present throughout the Maghreb. In 1792, the \"m'laya\", a black veil, popular in the eastern part of Algeria, made its appearance to mourn Salah Bey, Bey of Constantine. Made from wool, silk or synthetic silk fabric, the haik succeeded, in a very short time, to spread throughout all regions of the country, but its use was adapted to the socio-cultural specificities of the region. One variety of the haik, the \"haik mrama\", became very popular among women for its design, the way it was worn, and the quality of the fabric used by artisans. The \"haik mrama\" appeared at the end of the nineteenth century and was worn by urban women of Algiers and its suburbs. This type of veil is often associated with feminine beauty and has inspired many Chaabi poets and singers, who dedicated many of their works to them.\n\nA variation on the haik called the huik was worn from the 14th until the late 19th century in the Netherlands and Belgium, usually black and made of wool or silk. It was worn by women as a protection against bad weather. Later variants were worn during a period of mourning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47858683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47858683", "title": "Hanoi March", "text": "Hanoi March\n\nThe Hanoi March (known alternatively as the Hanoi Parade) was a propaganda event held on July 6, 1966, involving U.S. Prisoners of War during the Vietnam War. During the march, members of the North Vietnamese Army paraded 52 American POWs through the streets of Hanoi before tens of thousands of North Vietnamese civilians. The march soon deteriorated into near riot conditions, with North Vietnamese civilians beating the POWs along the route and their guards largely unable to restrain the attacks.\n\nOccurring relatively early in the war, the event highlighted the mistreatment of American prisoners and brought international criticism down upon the Hanoi regime. Later, as the war became increasingly unpopular in the United States and abroad, concern for the welfare of captured U.S. service members would become one of the few areas of common ground between opponents and supporters of the conflict.\n\nOccurring shortly before the two-year anniversary of the Gulf of Tonkin incident, the Hanoi March was an attempt by the government of North Vietnam to call international attention to what it considered the illegal bombing of the north by the United States. In the months preceding the march, indications from Hanoi suggested that the American prisoners, most of whom were captured airmen, might be subjected to trials for war crimes. The march of the POWs through civilian crowds was meant to demonstrate the North Vietnamese public's anger over the bombing campaign.\n\nOn the afternoon of July 6, thirty-six POWS from the camp at Cu Loc nicknamed \"The Zoo\", and sixteen from the \"Briar Patch\" at Xom Ap Lo were transported to the Hàng Đẫy Stadium in central Hanoi. The POWs were issued prison uniforms stenciled with large, non-consecutive three-digit numbers, which they later speculated was intended to suggest that Hanoi held far more American captives than it did; at that point in the war, fewer than a hundred U.S. service members had been captured. Many had spent months in solitary confinement, and the encounter with fellow Americans offered a rare opportunity to communicate, albeit wordlessly. Speaking was forbidden, so the men silently tapped each other in code, sharing their names, location, and other information.\n\nUpon arrival at the stadium, a North Vietnamese interrogator known as the \"Rabbit\" told the men that they were about to \"meet the Vietnamese people.\" From the stadium, the prisoners were chained in pairs and marched down an avenue flanked by tens of thousands of Vietnamese civilians, who were being agitated by soldiers with bullhorns. As the march progressed, North Vietnamese civilians began descending on the prisoners from the bleachers, assaulting the Americans as they marched. As the intensity of the attacks increased, some of the prisoners began to fear that their captors had lost control of the situation and that they might be killed by the civilian mob. In their history of the American POW experience in Vietnam, historians Stuart I. Rochester and Frederick Kiley describe the latter stage of the march as having \"fully degenerated into a riot,\" with the North Vietnamese political officers themselves fearing for the Americans' safety. After completing the two-mile march, the POWs finally returned to the safety of Hàng Đây stadium. After fighting their way through rows of North Vietnamese civilians, each of the cuffed pairs of POWs reached the safety of the interior and were later returned to their prisons.\n\nThe following day, senior American officer Jeremiah Denton was taken at bayonet point to see a North Vietnamese camp commander, who asked him through an interpreter what he thought of the march. Rochester and Kiley recount Denton repudiating the event as a \"return to barbaric times\" and predicting that it would \"bring a wave of criticism from the world.\" In Denton's recollection, the commander responded that \"The march was not the idea of the Army of Vietnam. The march was the idea of the people.\" Denton interpreted these remarks to suggest that the North Vietnamese Communist Party had orchestrated the march and that the army did not appear to endorse the decision.\n\nNumerous European journalists and film crews were present during the march, and their subsequent reporting on the event brought considerable condemnation of North Vietnam's treatment of American prisoners. According to Rochester and Kiley, U.S. officials reacted with a \"burst of indignation\" that transcended political views on the war. Nineteen senators who had earlier rejected the expansion of the U.S. war effort in Vietnam nonetheless issued a \"plea for sanity\" to Hanoi, warning that further mistreatment of American prisoners would lead to an inevitable public demand to escalate the war. Internationally, the prime ministers of India and the United Kingdom, Indira Gandhi and Harold Wilson, respectively, urged the Soviet Union to curb North Vietnamese mistreatment of U.S. prisoners. United Nations Secretary General U Thant denounced the march and the broader mistreatment of prisoners, as did Pope Paul VI. Following this criticism, the North Vietnamese walked back from earlier pledges to try the captured Americans for war crimes, and no such trials occurred.\n\nNotable Participants\n\n"}
{"id": "34060395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34060395", "title": "Hourglass economy", "text": "Hourglass economy\n\nHourglass Economy is an economy that produces more upper and lower classes, causing a decline in the middle class. An example would be during the Industrial Revolution when the introduction of efficient machinery created stratification of the classes with more lower paying unskilled jobs. This can be seen when the peak of a particular business model is growing and the antapex is growing drawing the middle in tighter and tighter.\n\nIn the United States of America, the American middle class is being forced to either make it bigger or lose it all due to policy passed within the business model of capitalism as the United States knows it. Less borrowing to relatively risky businesses, less availability of making large capital gains as well as rising inflation. Commodities are at record levels, keeping the large companies maintaining record profits, while the middle class are paying more for all this, as the primary consumers of goods, and falling into the bottom of the hourglass, at least on paper.\n\nCitigroup's analysts have labeled the American economy a “consumer hourglass economy.” The wealthy are doing fine, while the number of those living in poverty grows, and the middle is disappearing. New poverty figures show a big jump in the number of poorest Americans. Meanwhile, the middle class is disappearing says - http://www.salon.com/writer/andrew_leonard/\n\nhttp://www.salon.com/2011/09/13/the_hourglass_economy/\n\nProfessor Thomas J. Courchene of Queen’s University proposes that federal cutbacks of provincial transfers to social services since 1995 has caused significant fiscal imbalances. These funding cuts forced the provinces to make cutbacks in nearly every provincial jurisdiction, except healthcare because cutting healthcare funding would be political suicide, but this left almost every other provincial jurisdiction, including cities which are creations of the provinces, with reduced and often insufficient funding. However, in the meantime, the federal government has been providing greater funds to social programs but they have been bypassing the provinces and giving the money directly to cities and/or citizens. This allows the federal government to fund provincial jurisdictions directly causing the provinces to become “the squeezed middle of the division-of-powers hourglass”.\n\nCourchene defines Hourglass Federalism as “Ottawa’s use of the spending power and other instruments to fiscally starve the provinces and then to make an end run around them to deal directly with cities and citizens alike, leaving the provinces of the squeezed middle of the division-of-powers hourglass”.\n\n"}
{"id": "10930376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10930376", "title": "Iaai language", "text": "Iaai language\n\nIaai ( ) is a language of Ouvéa Island (New Caledonia). It shares the island of Ouvéa with Fagauvea, a Polynesian outlier language.\n\nIaai is the sixth-most-spoken language of New Caledonia, with 4078 speakers as of 2009. It is taught in schools in an effort to preserve it.\n\nThe main sources of information about the language of Iaai are the various publications by the linguist Françoise Ozanne-Rivierre, from LACITO–CNRS.\n\nIaai is remarkable for its large inventory of unusual phonemes, in particular its consonants, with a rich variety of voiceless nasals and approximants. It may be the only language in the world to possess a voiceless retroflex nasal.\n\nIaai has ten vowel qualities, all of which may occur long and short. There is little difference in quality depending on length.\n\nIaai constitutes one of the few cases of front rounded vowels attested outside of their geographic stronghold in Eurasia, even if other cases have since been reported in the Oceanic family.\n\nThe vowel is only known to occur in a half a dozen words. In all of these but \"dedicate\", it appears between a labial (b, m) and velar (k, ŋ) consonant.\n\nAfter the non-labiovelarized labial consonants and the vowel , the vowel is pronounced .\n\nThe open vowels only contrast in a few environments. only occurs after the plain labial consonants and the vowel , the same environment that produces . does not occur after , but does occur elsewhere, so that there is a contrast between and after .\n\nThe vowels are written with their IPA letters. is written \"û,\" is written \"ë,\" is written \"â,\" and is written \"ö.\" Long vowels, which are twice as long as short vowels, are written double.\n\nIaai has an unusual voicing distinction in its sonorants, as well as several coronal series. Unlike most languages of New Caledonia, voiced stops are not prenasalized.\n\nUnlike many languages with denti-alveolar stops, Iaai are released abruptly, and has a very short voice onset time. However, the apical post-alveolar and laminal palatal stops have substantially fricated releases , and may be better described as sounds between proper stops and affricates.\n\nThe labial approximants are placed in their respective columns following their phonological behaviour (their effects on following vowels), but there is evidence that all members of these series are either labial-palatal or labial-velar. are sometimes pronounced as weak fricatives .\n\nIn many cases, words with voiced and voiceless approximants are morphologically related, such as \"night\" and \"black\". /h/- and vowel-initial words have a similar relationship. The voiceless sonorant often marks object incorporation. However, many roots with voiceless sonorants have no voiced cognate.\n\nThe labialized labials are more precisely labio-velarized labials. There is evidence that non-labialized labial consonants such as are palatalized , , \"etc.\", but this is obscured before front vowels. If this turns out to be the situation, it would parallel Micronesian languages which have no plain labials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41026299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41026299", "title": "Identity theft in the United States", "text": "Identity theft in the United States\n\nIdentity theft involves obtaining somebody else's identifying information and using it for a criminal purpose. Most often that purpose is to commit financial fraud, such as by obtaining loans or credits in the name of the person whose identity has been stolen. Stolen identifying information might also be used for other reasons, such as to obtain identification cards or for purposes of employment by somebody not legally authorized to work in the United States.\n\nAccording to a United States Department of Justice study, in 2012 the direct and indirect cost of identity theft was estimated to be responsible for financial losses of $24.7 billion, approximately twice the $14 billion total cost of other property crimes. By 2014, losses to identity theft decreased to $15.4 billion, mostly due to a reduction in the number of high-value losses (the top 10% of cases). By 2016, the estimated cost of identity theft increased to $16 billion.\n\nIn 2012, identity theft affected approximately 16.6 million people, approximately 7% of the U.S. population aged 16 or older. In 2014, identity theft affected approximately 17.6 million people, again approximately 7% of the U.S. adult population. In 2014 it was estimated that approximately one third of Americans affected by a data breach ended up becoming a victim of financial fraud in 2013, an increase from one ninth in 2010. When an existing credit card is exposed and then used for fraud, the average estimated loss is $1,251. When a Social Security number is exposed and then used to open new accounts, the average estimated loss increases to $2,330. In 2015, a private study performed by Javelin suggested that incidents of identity theft remained steady from 2014, and that the losses associated with each instance of identity theft had decreased slightly.\n\nIn 2012, identity theft was blamed for $4 billion of fraudulent tax refunds by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and 770,000 taxpayers have been the victims of tax identity theft by 2013. A public-private initiative by the IRS and employers in 2016 resulted in a 50% drop in incidents of taxpayer identity theft reports.\n\nIn Calendar Year 2016, the IRS stopped 883,000 confirmed identity theft returns.\n\nMedical identity theft involves the use of somebody else's identity or insurance information to obtain healthcare, or to bill for healthcare services that are not actually provided. It is estimated that medical identify theft can be more lucrative than credit card theft. At one black-market auction a patient's medical record sold for $251, while credit card records sold for 33 cents.\n\nDue to the ability of hackers to access customer data from large health insurance companies, concerns have been raised that health care companies are not doing enough to protect customer's financial and health data.\n\nFor purposes of identity theft, data breaches involve the unauthorized access of consumer data contained on computer systems, with the data being potentially subject to use for purposes of identity theft. The Identity Theft Resource Center said there were 662 data breaches in the United States in 2010, almost a 33% increase from the previous year. Between January, 2015 and September, 2017, the Identity Theft Resource Center estimates that there were 7,920 breaches affecting more than one billion records that could lead to identity theft.\n\nOn May 5, 2011, Michaels, a craft store chain, sent an email alert to its customers revealing that its debit card terminals in 20 states had been compromised. Customers who made PIN-based purchases between February 8 and May 6, 2011 may have had their data exposed. A class action lawsuit was filed against Michaels in the County Court of Passaic, New Jersey over the incident. On January 25, 2014, Michaels warned of a possible second hacking of its customers' data and urged shoppers to keep an eye on their card statements for fraudulent activity. On April 17, 2014, Michaels confirmed a security breach at some of Michaels' stores and subsidiary Aaron Brothers from May 8, 2013 to February 27, 2014.\n\nBetween July and September 2011, a $13 million scam resulted in the arrest of 111 people. The scammers used skimming devices to swipe consumer credit card information at retail or food establishments. According to the Federal Trade Commission losses from identity theft in the United States cost about $1.52 billion in 2011. It is estimated that the IRS gave identity thieves $5 billion in refunds.\nIn 2012, about 40 million sets of payment card information were compromised by a hack of Adobe Systems.\n\nOn February 15, 2013, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D, FL-23) introduced the Stopping Tax Offenders and Prosecuting Identity Theft Act of 2013 (H.R. 744; 113th Congress) into the United States House of Representatives. The bill would increase the penalties on identity thieves in the United States and change the definition of identity theft to include businesses and organizations instead of just individuals.\n\nLarge U.S. corporations, such as Target Corporation, Home Depot, Neiman Marcus and Barnes & Noble, have been in the news after their credit card system was hacked. In 2014, a malware intrusion at Staples resulted in a credit card breach. 119 stores were impacted between April and September 2014, and 1.16 million customer credit and debit cards may have been stolen.\n\nIn October 2014, President Barack Obama announced that debit cards that transmit federal benefits like Social Security to Americans will be equipped with a security chip replacing the magnetic strip. The U.S. government will also apply the security chips and personal identification numbers (PIN), to replace signatures of all government credit cards. The measure is expected to reduce fraud. \"USA Today\" reported that an estimated 100 million people having been affected by breaches in 2014.\n\nIn November 2014, Sony Pictures Entertainment suffered a data breach. On December 18, 2014, employees of Sony filed a class action lawsuit against their employer claiming that Sony failed to take necessary actions to secure its employees personal information. The lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court for the Central District of California .\n\nIn 2015, there were 781 recorded data breaches in the United States, which compromised the security of over 169 million records. The frequency and severity of data breaches has led forty-seven states to pass security breach notification laws, to ensure that citizens are notified in a timely manner when their records have been exposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "32950263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32950263", "title": "Jane Schaberg", "text": "Jane Schaberg\n\nJane Dewar Schaberg (1938 – April 17, 2012) was the Professor of Religious Studies and of Women's Studies at the University of Detroit Mercy from 1977 through 2009.\n\nChosen for the Distinguished Faculty Award in 2006, she was acknowledged as Professor Emerita of Religious Studies in 2011 following her retirement. Schaberg earned a BA in Philosophy from Manhattanville College, an MA in Systematic theology from Columbia University and a Ph.D. in Biblical Studies from the Union Theological Seminary, New York City. Schaberg's publications deal mainly with the New Testament, including a commentary on the New Testament Infancy Narratives, on the Gospel of Luke, and on feminist contributions to historical and literary research. She also wrote poetry although her poetry is not widely published. Her most recently published research is on the traditions and legends associated with the figure of Mary Magdalene, as seen through a feminist lens. She died at her home in Detroit April 17, 2012 at the age of 74 after a long illness. A respected scholar of Hebrew and Christian scriptures, Schaberg's sometimes controversial work, especially the 1990 publication of \"The Illegitimacy of Jesus: A Feminist Theological Interpretation of the Infancy Narratives,\" has been discussed in \"Newsweek\", \"Time\", \"The New Yorker\", \"Cross Currents\", and the \"Detroit Free Press\". Jane's automobile was set on fire in response to this book. \n\nAt one time a professed member of the Society of the Sacred Heart of Jesus (a religious community of Roman Catholic women,) Schaberg renounced her vows while teaching at the University of Detroit, and in 1984 was one of 97 theologians and religious persons who signed A Catholic Statement on Pluralism and Abortion, calling for religious pluralism and discussion within the Catholic Church regarding the Church's position on abortion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "499351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=499351", "title": "Jean Pelletier", "text": "Jean Pelletier\n\nJean Pelletier, (; February 21, 1935 – January 10, 2009) was a Canadian politician, who served as the 37th mayor of Quebec City, Chief of Staff in the Prime Minister's Office, and chairman of Via Rail. He was a leading organizer of the Liberal Party of Canada.\n\nBorn in Chicoutimi, Quebec, the son of Burroughs and Marie (Desautels) Pelletier, Pelletier was educated at the College des Jesuits in Quebec City and the Séminaire de Trois-Rivières. He studied social sciences at Laval University before working as a journalist with CFCM-TV in Quebec City in 1957. From 1958 to 1958, he was a correspondent with Télévision de Radio-Canada. In 1959, he was the press secretary for the Premier of Quebec, Paul Sauvé.\n\nFrom 1960 to 1962, he was the executive secretary for the Commission des Monuments Historiques de la Province de Québec, a society for the listing and preserving all buildings of historical interest in the province of Quebec. From 1963 to 1964, he was a Technical Advisor to the Secretary of the Province of Quebec. Moving into the private sector, he was a broker for Levesque & Beaubien from 1964 to 1970. From 1970 to 1973, he was a Vice President for Dumont Express. From 1973 to 1977, he was vice-president of Action Sociale Ltée.\n\nPelletier began his political career with the \"Union Nationale\" party.\n\nHe won a seat as a municipal councillor in Quebec City on December 1976. He was elected mayor in 1977, serving for twelve years and two more elections. During his tenure as mayor, from 1977–1989, he improved rail service into the city, was instrumental in reviving the Lower Town and in having it designated a UNESCO World Heritage site.\n\nWhile mayor, Pelletier also became friends with Paris mayor Jacques Chirac. The two worked closely together as part of the Association of Francophone Mayors (1979–89), where Pelletier served as vice president. He successfully persuaded Chirac to keep quiet during the 1980 Quebec referendum, though Chirac personally supported an independent Quebec like General Charles de Gaulle.\n\nWith the demise of the \"Union Nationale\", he joined the Liberal Party of Canada.\n\nPelletier was a longtime close ally and friend of Jean Chrétien. They knew each other for years, having first met at boarding school while still youths. They attended law school at Laval University together and earned similar reputations as being aggressive.\n\nWhen Chrétien won the leadership in 1990, he was largely unpopular in Quebec, rocked by caucus defects, and indecisive in responding to the Oka standoff. The federal Liberals were disorganized, near bankruptcy, and dropped in the polls from 50 to 32 per cent. In order to reinvigorate his leadership and reorganized his chaotic office, Chrétien hired Pelletier as his chief of staff, while Eddie Goldenberg continued as senior political adviser.\n\nPelletier ran unsuccessfully in a Quebec City riding during the 1993 election, which saw the party capture few seats in the province of Quebec outside of their federalist stronghold of Montreal. That campaign saw Chrétien become Prime Minister, and Pelletier became his Chief of Staff, making him head of the Prime Minister's Office.\n\nChrétien praised Pelletier as Chief of Staff, saying \"He ran a very tight–and tight-lipped–ship... As a result, we didn't suffer from the public feuding, backbiting gossip, and anonymous leaks that had plagued other PMOs. Even those columnists and academics who were no fans of the Liberal Party had to concede that Pelletier's operation was among the most efficient and harmonious in memory, despite having been reduced from 120 to 80 employees as a cost-saving measure.\" Jeffrey Simpson columnist for \"The Globe and Mail\", noted that \"Pelletier stayed away from the media. He seldom met with journalists, and when he did, he gave almost nothing away. He was courteous, refined, sometimes witty and usually non-informative.\"\n\nPelletier persuaded two designates for Governor General, Roméo LeBlanc and Adrienne Clarkson, to marry their long-time partners, so they could be appointed as Canada's head of state.\n\nPelletier remained close friends with Jacques Chirac, who became President of France in 1994. Pelletier played an instrumental role in Chrétien and Chirac becoming close friends despite their initial disagreements. Chrétien had initially dismissed Chirac as a \"right-wing Gaullist\" and had been publicly furious when Chirac announced on Larry King Live that France would be one of the first countries to recognize an independent Quebec. Years later, when Paul Martin became prime minister and dismissed Pelletier (see below), Chirac criticized Martin for his treatment of Pelletier.\n\nOn May 4, 2001, Chrétien appointed Pelletier chairman of Via Rail, a Crown corporation. Soon after, Chrétien promised an extra C$700 million to improve Via's service.\n\nOn March 1, 2004, Pelletier and Via President Marc LeFrançois were fired by Prime Minister Paul Martin and Transport Minister Tony Valeri. Their dismissals were shortly after the Liberal Party became embroiled in the sponsorship scandal. Pelletier was one of four Chrétien loyalists sacked from jobs at Crown corporations by Martin's government during the sponsorship scandal. Via was accused of skipping mandated procedures in order to hand out contracts to Liberal-friendly firms and individuals. Pelletier, however, was not at Via for most of these occurrences, and the Martin government was accused of using an incident as an excuse to remove one of Chrétien's allies. Eddie Goldenberg said that Pelletier \"was very hurt about being fired for saying something about Myriam Bédard without being asked for his side. The whole purpose [of firing him] had nothing to do with Ms. Bédard and everything to do with the fact that Mr. Martin didn't like him because he had worked for Mr. Chrétien\".\n\nPaul Martin maintained that Pelletier was fired for remarks that he made to Montreal's \"La Presse\" newspaper attacking Olympic athlete Myriam Bédard. Talking about Bédard, who had held a marketing position at Via and had gone to the media with stories of corruption, Pelletier said \"I don't want to be mean, but this is a poor girl who deserves pity, who doesn't have a spouse, as far as I know.\" He later reiterated that \"She is struggling as a single mother with economic responsibilities. Deep down, I think she is pitiful.\" This caused an immediate media fracas and the remarks were widely condemned as sexist and out-of-touch by women's groups, sports groups and others.\n\nOn March 30, 2004, Pelletier sued Via and the federal government for C$3 million, for defamation and illegal dismissal. A federal court ruled that dismissal did not follow due process and ordered him reinstated in November 2005. Although he was reinstated, the government appealed the court ruling and kept him off the payroll. On December 22, 2005, he was fired a second time, this time after the government ensured that due process was followed. Pelletier filed suit in Quebec Superior Court alleging wrongful dismissal; Transport Minister Jean Lapierre issued a written statement noting that the recent dismissal is effective immediately and that Pelletier would not receive compensation due to his suit against the government.\n\nAfter the 2006 federal election, Reg Alcock, the outgoing President of the Treasury Board, did approve $40,000 to assist Pelletier with legal fees in a court challenge against the Gomery Commission. Representatives of other parties criticized this payment, saying that the government should only cover legal costs for working civil servants. Pelletier's lawyer argued that it followed a long-standing government policy for high-ranking functionaries in judicial proceedings.\n\nA Federal Court justice ruled in March 2007 that the Martin government acted improperly in 2005 when it fired Pelletier a second time, immediately after a court overturned his first dismissal as head of Via Rail. Justice Francois Lemieux ruled that then-Transport Minister Jean Lapierre, who fired Pelletier the second time, was biased and failed to follow proper procedures. On November 22, 2007, Judge Hélène Langlois of Quebec Superior Court ruled that government of Prime Minister Paul Martin had acted in a \"cavalier and precipitous\" fashion when it fired Pelletier. Langloise stated, \"that behaviour doesn't meet the standard of diligence expected from a contractor when a contractual relationship is ended. It shows a total lack of consideration\". Langlois also mentioned that people refused to walk on the same side of the street as Pelletier while others called him names in public. Pelletier was awarded $235,000 in lost income, and a further $100,000 for damaging his reputation. He had sued for $689,000 in financial losses and $3.3 million for moral damages.\n\nOn June 26, 2008, federal judge Max Teitelbaum criticized John Gomery for having a preoccupation with the media spotlight that led him to give interviews he should have eschewed, making comments that indicated he judged issues before all evidence was heard, exhibited bias against Mr. Chrétien, and trivialized the inquiry proceedings. For instance, Teitelbaum pointed out that Gomery's remark halfway through the hearings that \"juicy stuff\" was yet to come made it appear that evidence of wrongdoing was expected before it was heard. The court threw out the Gomery inquiry's conclusions that Chrétien and Pelletier bore responsibility for the sponsorship scandal.\n\nPelletier died on January 10, 2009 in Quebec City from complications of colon cancer, aged 73. He was survived by his wife, Helene, and two children, Jean and Marie. Marie and her husband Andrew Stegen have two children named Alix, and Mathew.\n\nIn 1985, Pelletier was made a Member of the Order of Canada in recognition for having \"played a pivotal role in many social, cultural and philanthropic organizations in the Old Capital\". He was promoted to Officer in 2003 in recognition for having \"dedicated his life to public service\". In 1990, he was made an Officer of the National Order of Quebec.\n"}
{"id": "29820388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29820388", "title": "Judaism and politics", "text": "Judaism and politics\n\nThe relationship between Judaism and politics is a historically complex subject, and has evolved over time concurrently with both changes within Jewish society and religious practice, and changes in the secular societies that Jews live in. In particular, Jewish political thought can be split into four major eras: biblical (prior to Roman rule), rabbinic (from roughly the 100 BCE to 600 CE), medieval (from roughly 600 CE to 1800 CE), and modern (18th century to the present day). \n\nPolitical leadership is a common topic in the Hebrew Bible, and several different political models are described across its canon, usually composed of some combination of tribal federation, monarchy, a priestly theocracy, and rule by prophets. Political organization during the Rabbinic and Medieval generally involved semi-autonomous rule by Jewish councils and courts (with council membership often composed purely of rabbis) that would govern the community and act as representatives to secular authorities outside the Jewish community. Beginning in the 19th century, and coinciding with the expansion of the political rights accorded to individual Jews in European society, Jews would affiliate with and contribute theory to a wide range of political movements and philosophies.\n\nThere are many models for political leadership described in the Hebrew Bible. Stuart Cohen has pointed out that there are three separate power centers depicted in the Hebrew Bible: the priesthood, the royal throne, and the prophets.\n\nOne model of Biblical politics is the model of the tribal federation, where power is shared among different tribes and institutions. Another is the model of limited constitutional monarchy.\n\nThe Bible appears to command appointing a king in the Book of Deuteronomy with the following command: \"When you come into the land that the Lord your God is about to give you, and you take hold of it and dwell in it, and you say, 'Let me put a king over me like all the nations that are around me', you shall surely put over you a king whom the Lord your God chooses...\" (Deut. 17:14-15).\n\nThe Hebrew Bible contains a complex chronicle of the Kings of Israel and Judah, written over the course of many generations by authors whose relationships and intimacy with the rulers of the several kingdoms fluctuated widely in both intimacy and respect. Some historical passages of the Hebrew Bible contain intimate portrayals of the inner workings of the royal households of Saul, David, and Solomon; the accounts of subsequent monarchs are frequently more distanced and less detailed, and frequently begin with the judgement that the monarch \"did evil in the sight of the Lord\".\n\nDaniel Elazar has argued that the concept of covenant is the fundamental concept in the Biblical political tradition and in the later Jewish thought that emerges from the Bible.\n\nIn Roman Judea, Jewish communities were governed by rabbinical courts known as Sanhedrin. Lesser Sanhedrin composed of 23 judges were appointed to each city, while a Great Sanhedrin with 71 judges was the highest authority, taking cases appealed from the lower courts. The Sanhedrin served as the leadership of the Jewish community under Roman rule, and served as emissaries to the imperial authorities in addition to overseeing religious practice and collecting taxes. The Sanhedrin was the highest Jewish governing body of the Second Temple period, and the codification of the Mishnah by the Tannaim during this period laid the foundations for later Rabbinic Judaism.\n\nA statement by Rabbi Judah in the Babylonian Talmud (Sanhedrin 20b) depicts kingship as the ideal form of Jewish governance, following the Book of Deuteronomy statement that, \"When you come into the land that the Lord your God is about to give you, and you take hold of it and dwell in it, and you say, 'Let me put a king over me like all the nations that are around me', you shall surely put over you a king whom the Lord your God chooses...\" (Deut. 17:14-15).\n\nBut the Talmud also brings a different interpretation of this verse from Rabbi Nehorai, who is quoted as explaining that, \"This section was spoken only in anticipation of their future murmurings, as it is written, and you say, Let me put a king over me...\" (Sanhedrin 20b). In many interpretations, Rabbi Nehorai does not think of appointing a king as a strict obligation, but as a concession to later \"murmurings\" from Israel.\n\nIn addition to imagining ideal forms of governance, the rabbis accept a principle to obey the government currently in power. The Talmud makes reference to the principle of \"dina de-malkhuta dina\" (\"the law of the land is law\"), a principle recognizing non-Jewish laws and non-Jewish legal jurisdiction as binding on Jewish citizens, provided that they are not contrary to any laws of Judaism.\n\nAn autonomous form Jewish government in the Middle Ages was known as the Qahal (more often spelled \"Kahal\"), a form of government which many Jews saw as exemplifying Jewish principles. The kahal had regulatory control over Jewish communities in a given region; they administered commerce, hygiene, sanitation, charity, Jewish education, \"kashrut\", and relations between landlords and their tenants. It provided a number of community facilities, such as a rabbi, a ritual bath, and an interest-free loan facility for the Jewish community. The kahal even had sufficient authority that it could arrange for individuals to be expelled from synagogues, excommunicating them.\n\nSome medieval political theorists such as Maimonides and Rabbeinu Nissim saw kingship as ideal. Maimonides' views the commandment in Deuteronomy to appoint a king as a clear positive ideal, following the Talmudic teaching that \"three commandments were given to Israel when they entered the land: to appoint a king, as it says, 'You shall surely put over you a king'...\" A large section of Maimonides' legal code, the Mishneh Torah, titled \"The Laws of Kings and their Wars\", deals with the ideal model of kingship, especially in the messianic era, and also concerning ruling over non-Jewish subjects through the Noachide laws. Other sections of Maimonides' Mishneh Torah (mostly also in Sefer Shofetim, the book of Judges, where the laws of kingship are also found) is dedicated to the laws relating to legislators and judges.\n\nWhereas Maimonides' idealized kingship, other medieval political theorists, such as Abravanel, saw kingship as misguided. According to Abravanel, the commandment in Deuteroneomy to appoint a king is not a positive commandment at all. Rather, monarchy is a bad model, as \"kingship is very harmful to the general public\". Later on, other Jewish philosophers such as Baruch Spinoza would lay the groundwork for the Enlightenment, arguing for ideas such as the separation of church and state. Spinoza's writings caused him to be excommunicated from the Jewish community of Amsterdam, although his work and legacy has been largely rehabilitated, especially amongst secular Jews in the 20th and 21st centuries.\n\nWith Jewish Emancipation, the institution of the Qahal as an autonomous entity was officially abolished. Jews increasingly became participants in the wider political and social sphere of larger nations. As Jews became citizens of states with various political systems, and argued about whether to found their own state, Jewish ideas of the relationship between Judaism and politics developed in many different directions.\n\nIn the nineteenth century and early twentieth century, when there was a large Jewish population in Europe, some Jews favored various forms of liberalism, and saw them as connected with Jewish principles. Some Jews allied themselves with a range of Jewish political movements. These included Socialist and labor movements favored by the Jewish left, Zionist movements, Jewish Autonomist movements, Territorialist movements, and Jewish Anarchism movements. Haredi Jews formed an organization known as World Agudath Israel which espoused Haredi Jewish political principles. \n\nIn the 21st century, shifts are occurring. The Jewish community in Great Britain, one of the largest in the diaspora, is leaning conservative, as a poll published by the Jewish Chronicle in early 2015 shows. Of British Jews polled, 69% would vote for the Conservative Party, while 22% would vote for the Labour Party. This is in stark contrast to the rest of the voter population, which, according to a BBC poll, had Conservatives and Labor almost tied at about a third each. Jews have typically been a part of the British middle class, traditional home of the Conservative Party, though the number of Jews in working-class communities of London is in decline. The main voting bloc of poorer Jews in Britain now, made up primarily of ultra-Orthodox, votes \"en masse\" for the Conservatives. Attitudes toward Israel influence the vote of three out of four of British Jews. A shift toward conservatism has also been exhibited in France, where about half of the Jewish population is Sephardic. Jérôme Fourquet, director of the IFOP, the French polling organization, notes that there is a \"pronounced preference\" for right-wing politics among French Jews. During the 2007 election, Jews (Orthodox or not) represent the strongest pillar of support for Sarkozy after observant Catholics.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Jews were divided in their views of slavery and abolition. Prior to 1861, there were virtually no rabbinical sermons on slavery. The silence on this issue was probably a result of fear that the controversy would create conflict within the Jewish community. Some Jews owned slaves or traded them, and the livelihoods of many in the Jewish community of both the North and South were tied to the slave system. Most southern Jews supported slavery, and some, like Judah P. Benjamin, advocated its expansion. The abolitionist Ben Wade, who knew Benjamin in the U.S. Senate, described him as \"an Israelite with Egyptian principles\". Northern Jews sympathized with the South, and few were abolitionists, seeking peace and remaining silent on the subject of slavery. America's largest Jewish community, New York's Jews, were \"overwhelmingly pro-southern, pro-slavery, and anti-Lincoln in the early years of the war\". However, eventually, they began to lean politically toward \"Father Abraham\", his Republican party, and emancipation.\n\nWhile earlier Jewish immigrants tended to be politically conservative, the wave of Eastern European Jews starting in the early 1880s, were generally more liberal or left-wing, and became the political majority. For most of the 20th century since 1936, the vast majority of Jews in the United States have been aligned with the Democratic Party. Many religious supporters of the Jewish left have argued that left-wing values vis-à-vis social justice can be traced to Jewish religious texts, including the Tanakh and later texts, which include a strong endorsement of hospitality to \"the stranger\" and the principle of redistribution of wealth in the Biblical idea of Jubilee - as well as a tradition of challenging authority, as exemplified by the Biblical Prophets.\n\nAmerican rabbinic leaders who have advanced a progressive political agenda grounded in Jewish principles have included:\n\nOther prominent Jews who have argued based on Jewish principles for a progressive political agenda have included:\n\nTowards the end of the 20th century, and at the beginning of the 21st century, Republicans launched initiatives to woo American Jews away from the Democratic Party. While a solid majority of American Jews continues to be aligned with the Democratic Party, many have argued that there is increased Jewish support for political conservatism. (The \"List of Jewish American politicians\" illustrates the diversity of Jewish political thought and of the roles Jews have played in American politics.)\n\nRabbinic leaders who have advanced a conservative political agenda grounded in Jewish principles have included:\n\nOther prominent Jews who have argued based on Jewish principles for a conservative political agenda have included:\n\nSignificant Jewish political philosophers in North America have included:\n\nThe development of a political system in Israel drew largely on European models of governance, rather than on models from the Jewish political tradition. Some political figures in Israel, however, have seen their principles as based in Judaism. This is especially pronounced in political parties that see themselves as religious parties, such as Shas, United Torah Judaism, and The Jewish Home.\n\nRecent interest in developing political theory grounded in Jewish sources has been spurred on by the activities of the neo-conservative Shalem Center.\n"}
{"id": "1374866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374866", "title": "Karachay-Balkar language", "text": "Karachay-Balkar language\n\nThe Karachay-Balkar language (, or , ) is a Turkic language spoken by the Karachays and Balkars in Kabardino-Balkaria and Karachay–Cherkessia, European Russia, as well as by an immigrant population in Afyonkarahisar Province, Turkey. It is divided into two dialects: Karachay-Baksan-Chegem, which pronounces two phonemes as and , and Balkar, which pronounces the corresponding phonemes as and . The modern Karachay-Balkar written language is based on the Karachay-Baksan-Chegem dialect. The language is closely related to Kumyk.\n\nModern Karachay-Balkar Cyrillic alphabet:\n\nKarachay-Balkar Latin alphabet:\nParentheses indicate allophones.\n\nArticle 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Karachay-Balkar:\n\nLoanwords from Ossetian, Kabardian, Arabic, and Persian are fairly numerous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3606147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3606147", "title": "Kombu (instrument)", "text": "Kombu (instrument)\n\nThe Kombu (Tamil:கொம்பு) or Kompu also known as the Kombu Pattu is a wind instrument (a kind of Natural Horn) in Tamil nadu and Kerala. Usually played along with Panchavadyam, Pandi Melam, Panchari melam etc. This musical instrument is usually seen in south India. The instrument is like a long horn (\"Kombu\" in Tamil language). \n\nIn ancient days \"kombu\" played during war along with Murasu. \n\nListed one of the Musical instruments used by ancient Tamil people out in Tirumurai dated 6th to 11th century, Sangam Period. \n\nவெல் படைத் தறுகண் வெஞ்சொல் வேட்டுவர் கூட்டம் தோறும் \nசில்லரித் துடியும் கொம்பும் சிறு கண் ஆகுளியும் கூடி \nகல் எனும் ஒலியின் மேலும் கறங்கிசை அருவி எங்கும் 12.0654\n\nIn recent research found that \"kombu\" is used in ancient Ireland and believed it came from South India 2000 years ago. \n\nModern \"kombu\" made out of bronze either in 'C' shape or 'S' shape.\nIn kombu in kerala the leading artist is sree chengamanad appu nair (pallavur appumarar award winner)\n\nIt is one of the few instrumental temple art forms in which the melody instruments dominate. Even this is only partly true, as the C-shaped trumpet, the kombu is regarded as a rhythm instrument by its players, with the function of embellishing the beats of the drums. The kombu can only produce three notes (sa, pa, and higher sa). The genre is played by a group of kombu players (3, 5, 7, or 9), led by the kombu leader. Within a given tala (rhythmic cycle), the leader improvises kombu patterns on the spot to be repeated by the chorus players.\n\nKumath Raman Nair (2001), the most famous solo kombu artist from Trichur, states that kombu pattu can be played in six talams (beats in brackets): chempata (8), atanta (14), dhruvam (14), chempha (10), anchatantha (16), and thriputa (7). Each cycle is accented with the accompanying ilatalam cymbals. For instance, thriputa talam is played x . x . . x . x . x . x . . (broken down to 14 pulses for diagrammatic presentation), and chempata x . x . x . u . (represented as eight pulses; 'u' indicates a silent beat). Like the other kshetram genres, kombu pattu is played in a steadily increasing tempo with decreasing rhythm units.\n\nFrom: Killius, Rolf. 2006 ’Ritual Music and Hindu Rituals of Kerala.’ New Delhi: BR Rhythms. ; with author permission\n\n"}
{"id": "1084487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1084487", "title": "Kopernik Observatory &amp; Science Center", "text": "Kopernik Observatory &amp; Science Center\n\nThe Kopernik Observatory & Science Center (KOSC) is a public observatory in Vestal, New York opened to the public on 16 June 1974 by the Kopernik Society of Broome County to commemorate the 500th anniversary of the birth of the astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus () in 1973. Its mission is to offer hands-on investigations and outreach programs for educating all ages about astronomy and science using advanced optical telescopes, computers and other tools. It is the first science laboratory facility in New York State designed for K-12 teachers, students and their families, and has been one of the best-sited and best equipped public observatories in the Northeast United States for nearly the last 40 years.\n\nIn 1973, the Kopernik Polish Cultural Society of Broome County organized in order to build a community observatory to commemorate the 500th anniversary of the birth of the astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus (). The Society's goal was for everyone in the region, regardless of ethnic background, to experience the universe firsthand at the new Kopernik Observatory. The Kopernik Society secured donations of materials, services and funds from the community and planned for construction to begin in the fall of 1973. General Contractor Edward Nezelek, Chairman of the Kopernik Observatory committee, completed the observatory in the spring of 1974. \nThe facility, designed by James Kilcy, consisted of a astronomical observatory with two telescope domes.\n\nAfter the Observatory was opened to the public on 16 June 1974, the Kopernik Society donated the facility to the people of the Southern Tier region, to be operated by the Roberson Museum and Science Center as the Roberson-Kopernik Observatory, part of Roberson's educational initiative and to complement the major planetarium already in operation at its Binghamton site.\n\nWith major support from the Kopernik Society, the Decker Foundation, and many other community organizations, Roberson undertook a $2 million expansion of the Observatory to create the Kopernik Space Education Center in 1992. It would convert the Roberson-Kopernik Observatory into the first science laboratory facility in New York State designed for K-12 teachers, students and their families. The envisioned expansion would add a third equatorial room with a large telescopes, four classrooms, a space science theater, and laser physics and computer-imaging laboratories. Construction of the Center began in the Fall of 1992, Kenneth R. Gay, II was the Architect, and the facility addition opened in June 1993.\n\nThe Kopernik Society and the Roberson Museum hosted a grand 25th anniversary celebration event on Saturday, June 5, 1999 at the Kopernik Space Education Center. The celebration showcased Kopernik's facilities, programs, and the partnership with the Polish community that made it all possible. The 25th anniversary guests included scientists, NASA officials, long time supporters and students from Kopernik Talent Search programs. The event highlighted the growth of the Kopernik facility from a local observatory into a science education center of national significance.\n\nFortunes changed by 2005 when the Kopernik Space Education Center operated at a $45,000 loss. \nThe Roberson Museum and Science Center, under severe financial strain, was seriously considering cutting major funding and programs at the Observatory while continuing its summer program and Friday night astronomy sessions in 2006.\n\nThe funding changes concerned the Kopernik Society of Broome County and supporters of the Observatory.\n\nThe Kopernik Society conducted months of negotiations out of which an agreement was reached that returned ownership and operation of the Kopernik Space Education Center from the Roberson Museum back to the Kopernik Society in March 2007.\n\nThe name of the center changed to the Kopernik Observatory and Science Education Center and it needed to generate about $54,000 each year from federal / state grants, fund-raisers, and company / public donations. Under the transfer agreement Kopernik had to balance its operating budget through 2011, otherwise Roberson could resume control of the facility.\n\nThe name was changed again to Kopernik Observatory & Science Center.\nCelebrated its 40th anniversary in 2014 with a grand gala at the Binghamton University campus. Windsor native and Former NASA Astronaut Douglas H. Wheelock was the keynote speaker.\n\n\nIts mission is to offer hands-on investigations and outreach programs for educating all ages about astronomy and science using advanced optical telescopes, computers and other tools. It is the first science laboratory facility in New York State designed for K-12 teachers, students and their families and has been one of the best-sited and best equipped public observatories in the Northeast United States for nearly the last 40 years.\n\nThe Observatory is a member of the Association of Science-Technology Centers and participates in the ASTC Passport Program. The Passport Program allows members of a participating institution to visit other participating institutions for free, provided the member is visiting an institution more than 90 miles from their home institution.\n\nThe Observatory holds public events every Friday evening, but due to changing seasonal sunsets times the Observatory adjusts its program starting times; March–May at 8:00pm, June–July at 8:30pm, August–November at 8:00pm, December–February at 7:00pm. Friday evening topics include Optical Astronomy, Radio Astronomy, Technology, and related subjects.\n\nThere are a number of special events that are held throughout the year.\n\nThe annual Winter Star Party, held since 2006, is usually on the last Saturday in January. Doors open at 6pm and programs are held regardless of sky conditions. There are typically several speakers on various astronomy topics or brave the cold and see winter constellations, along with the Moon, Jupiter, the Orion Nebula, and much more through the Observatory's large telescopes.\n\nThe RocketFest has been held every June since 2008. Rocket building workshops will run every 3 hours starting at 9 a.m. and ending at 6 p.m. Assistance is available to help assemble the model rocket, prepare the engine, and launch the rocket. Reservations are necessary to hold a place in one of the workshops and to pre-order the type of rocket including Standard rockets (A- or B-powered), suitable for younger children and beginning rocket builders, and Advanced rockets (D-powered) have stronger engines and are appropriate for those with more experience.\n\nKopernik AstroFest is a celebration of the night sky and amateur astronomy held annually in October since 1982. The 3-day event is sponsored jointly by the Observatory and the Kopernik Astronomical Society. AstroFest includes speakers on a variety of topics, demonstrations, an amateur astronomy roundtable discussion, the Kopernik AstroFest Solar Star Party, and nightly observing if skies are clear. Overnight non-fire camping is allowed on the facility grounds for an additional nominal cost.\n\nOn selected Saturday evenings in the Spring and Fall the main building of KOSC is transformed into a Moonlight Café. It is an adults-only evening where one can enjoy fresh-brewed coffee, tea, and delicious desserts along with a fascinating introduction to the stars and outer space. Registration is through SUNY Broome's Continuing Education Program.\n\nThe Observatory offers opportunities for students of all ages to experience a range of science, technology, engineering and math topics, known as STEM education. Classes run through the school year, on weekends and school holidays at the facility in addition to bringing programs directly to schools for individual classrooms or the entire school. The programs are aligned with mesh with New York State Department of Education and Pennsylvania Department of Education standards so they supplement what's being taught in the classroom.\n\nSince 1992 the Kopernik Observatory & Science Center (KOSC) has offered week-long camps for students in grades 1-12. The camps are sponsored by the Link Foundation since 1994, in memory of local inventor / explorer Edwin A. Link, the Link Summer STEM Exploration camps offer hands-on, high-tech adventures in science, technology, engineering, and math. Students housed at Binghamton University with commuter and residential options are available.\n\nStarting after the July 4th weekend, the Observatory offers week-long summer camps and day camps for students in grades one through 12. The camps are sequenced so that each year a student can come back and learn something new.\n\nVisits to the Physics Department on the Binghamton University campus from the Kopernik Observatory's Space Science Education participants.\n\n\nThe Observatory is the first science laboratory facility in New York State designed for K-12 teachers, students and their families and has been one of the best-sited and best equipped public observatories in the Northeast United States since its founding. The facility contains multiple types of equipment to support its primary mission.\n\nThe observatory has three main optical telescopes:\n\nThere are a number of other telescope available for use including four Orion Newtonians, 1 Meade Newtonian, and 12 f/4.2 Astroscan aluminized and overcoated borosilicate glass parabolic primary mirror with a focal length of .\n\n\nThe Kopernik Observatory & Science Center has a permanent ham radio station using the club call sign: K2ZRO. The station is often open during public programs on Friday evenings. The call sign K2ZRO belonged to Kazimierz Deskur, one of the founding members of the Kopernik Society, who built the Kopernik Observatory. Kaz Deskur heard some of the first signals from Sputnik, and this led to his interest in amateur radio satellites (the facility has an original Sputnik QSL card). He was an early pioneer in amateur radio satellites and developed a device called the OSCARLocator, a great circle map-like device to aid hams in tracking them.\n\nThe facility is located atop a hill in Vestal, New York, southwest of Binghamton, New York within the Allegheny Plateau. The site lies on the western ridge line of the Choconut Creek, part of the Susquehanna River Basin, a few hundred feet north of the New York - Pennsylvania border. The surrounding area is a product of significant glaciation that has removed any sharp relief of the hills seen in other unglaciated areas of the plateau. The tops of the hills in the area, including where the Observatory is located, approximate the level of a peneplain that was uplifted to form the plateau.\n\nThe Observatory is located in a humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dfb\"), characterized with cold, snowy winters and warm, wet summers. The surrounding region is the 10th rainiest area in the United States, with 162 rainy days a year. With 212 cloudy days annually, it is also the seventh cloudiest city in the country, and the cloudiest east of the Rocky Mountains.\n\nThe Observatory is also the home of the Kopernik Astronomical Society (KAS), a group of dedicated observational astronomers. The Kopernik Astronomical Society's (KAS) mission is to provide the Binghamton, NY area with resources to those who are interested in astronomy, space, and science collaboration. This is accomplished by providing support for the Kopernik Observatory and Science Center through volunteerism, hosting public outreach events, education programs, and by sharing experiences and information to anyone who might have a question. In addition to outreach, the KAS embarks on adventures for astronomical observation through field trips to dark sky parks, conferences, star parties, as well as observation sessions at Kopernik Observatory.\n\nThe Society meets the 1st Wednesdays of each month. Meetings start at 7pm and last about one hour, followed by observing (if clear). These meetings consist of an overview of next month's events, equipment issues, and observing tips.\n\nThe Binghamton Amateur Radio Association, Inc. (BARA), founded in 1919, has a rich history of technical achievements, community service and having fun in just about all aspects of amateur radio. It holds a Club Call of W2OW from the FCC. General meetings are open to all, club members and non-members alike, and are held on the Third Wednesday of every month, starting at 7pm at the Kopernik Observatory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14292760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14292760", "title": "Languages of Moldova", "text": "Languages of Moldova\n\nThe state language of Moldova is Romanian, locally known as Moldovan, which is the native language of 80.2% of the population; it is also spoken as a primary language by other ethnic minorities. Gagauz, Russian and Ukrainian languages are granted official regional status in Gagauzia and/or Transnistria.\n\nThe 1989 State language law of the former Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic that declared Moldovan, written in the Latin script, was the sole state language, intending it to serve as a primary means of communication among all citizens of the republic. The law speaks of a common Moldovan-Romanian linguistic identity.\n\nIn 1991, the Declaration of Independence of Moldova named the official language as Romanian.\n\nAt 9 September 1994, Academy of Sciences of Moldova confirms the reasoned scientific opinion of philologists from the Republic and abroad (approved by the decision of the Presidium of Academy of Science of Moldova of 9.09.94), according to which the correct name of the State language (official) of the Republic of Moldova is Romanian.\n\nThe 1994 Constitution of Moldova said that \"the national language of the Republic of Moldova is Moldovan, and its writing is based on the Latin alphabet.\"\n\nIn December 2013, the Constitutional Court of Moldova ruled that the Declaration of Independence takes precedence over the Constitution, and the state language should be called \"Romanian\".\n\nMost linguists consider literary Romanian and Moldovan to be identical, with the glottonym \"Moldovan\" used in certain political contexts. In 2003, the Communist government of Moldova adopted a political resolution on \"National Political Conception,\" stating that one of its priorities was preservation of the Moldovan language. This was a continuation of Soviet-inflected political emphasis.\n\nSince the Declaration of Independence in 1991, schools refer to this language as \"Romanian\" when teaching it or referring to it.\n\nIn the 2004 census, 2,564,542 people (75.8% of the population of the country) declared their native language as \"Moldovan\" or \"Romanian\"; 2,495,977 (73.8%) speak it as first language in daily use. Apart from being the first language of use for 94.5% of ethnic Moldovans and 97.6% of ethnic Romanians, the language is also spoken as primary by 5.8% of ethnic Russians, 7.7% of ethnic Ukrainians, 2.3% of ethnic Gagauz, 8.7% of ethnic Bulgarians, and 14.4% of other ethnic minorities.\n\nThe 2014 census reported an estimated 2,998,235 people (without Transnistria), out of which 2,804,801 were actually covered by the census. Among them, 2,068,068 or 73.7% declared themselves Moldovans and 192,800 or 6.9% Romanians.\n. Some organisations like the Liberal party of Moldova have criticised the census results, claiming Romanians comprise 85% of the population and that census officials have pressured respondents to declare themselves Moldovans instead of Romanians and have purposefully failed to cover urban respondents who are more likely to declared themselves Romanians as opposed to Moldovans \n\nAccording to the 2014 census, 2,720,377 answered to the question on \"language usually used for communication\". 2,138,964 people or 78.63% of the inhabitants of Moldova (proper) have Moldovan/Romanian as first language, of which 1,486,570 (53%) declared it Moldovan and 652,394 (23.3%) declared it Romanian.\n\nHowever, in Chisinau, the proportion of people who declared Romanian as opposed to Moldovan is larger - 43,3% vs 33%.\n\nRussian is provided with the status of a \"language of inter-ethnic communication\" as with many post-soviet countries, and since Soviet times remains widely used on many levels of the society and the state. According to the above-mentioned National Political Conception, Russian-Romanian bilingualism is characteristic for Moldova.\n\nRussian was granted official status in Gagauzia, a region in the south of the country inhabited mostly by ethnic Gagauz, and in the breakaway region of Transnistria in the east of the country.\n\n263,523 people or 9.4% have Russian as native language and some 94,133 people or 14.1% identified Russian as language of daily use. It is the first language for 93.2% of ethnic Russians, and a primary language for 4.9% of Moldovans, 50.0% of Ukrainians, 27.4% of Gagauz, 35.4% of Bulgarians, and 54.1% of other ethnic minorities.\n\nIn localities with significant minority populations, other languages are granted official status alongside the state language.\n\nGagauz is an official minority language in Gagauzia, and has significant regional speaker population. 114,532 people or 4.1% identified Gagauz as their native language, but only 74.167 or 2.6% speak it as a first language.\n\nUkrainian has co-official status in the breakaway region of Transnistria. In the main part of the country, 186,394 people declared it native, and (of these) 107,252 or 3.8% speak it as a first language.\n\nWhile since the 1990s most Moldovans learn English as their first foreign language in schools, few speak it at a sufficiently advanced level to be able to communicate and understand it freely. Sometimes French, Italian, or Spanish are taught first. These languages are often used by Moldovan expats and working migrants in other countries, including France, Italy, Ireland, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Usually the migrants learn the new languages after arriving in a new country. The expatriates and working migrants in Portugal, Greece, Turkey, Cyprus, and Germany have learned those countries' respective languages. Speakers of Portuguese, Greek, Turkish, and German live in Moldova. \n\nMoldovans of older and middle generations are generally bilingual in the Romanian language and Russian, due to the long influence of and trade with the Soviet Union. Many Moldovan expatriates and migrant workers live and work in Russia. Many of the younger generation in Moldova, however, may not know this language well enough to be able to communicate in writing or to have a sophisticated conversation. Children study Russian one hour per week in school. There are more TV channels available to watch in Russian than in Romanian.\n\n"}
{"id": "4944459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4944459", "title": "List of French institutions", "text": "List of French institutions\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17972375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17972375", "title": "List of cultural conservation-restoration organizations", "text": "List of cultural conservation-restoration organizations\n\nThe following is a list of conservation organizations associated with the professional field of conservation-restoration.\n\nProfessional conservators join and take part in the activities of numerous conservation associations and professional organizations with the wider conservation field, and within their area of specialization.\n\nThese organizations exist to \"support the conservation professionals who preserve our cultural heritage\". This involves upholding professional standards, promoting research and publications, providing educational opportunities, and fostering the exchange of knowledge among conservators, allied professionals, and the public.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBrief History of Chamber of Restorers, Slovak Republic\n\nThe Chamber of Restorers was established on September 1, 1994 by the Law of the National Council of the Slovak Republic No. 200/1994 Collection of Law about the Chamber of Restorers and the Execution of the Restoration Activity of its Members, as a so-called professional chamber with compulsory membership, which has the task to gather physical persons executing the profession “restorer” in the area of the Slovak Republic. The seat of the Chamber of Restorers is in the capital of the Slovak Republic, Bratislava and it operates within the whole area of the Slovak Republic.\n\nThe essential mission of the Chamber of Restorers is to act as public authority in two main areas.\n\n\nFor this purpose the law entrusted the chamber on one side with the authority to issue internal (corporative/professional) rules which are legally binding for its members and on the other side it accredited the chamber with disciplinary authority over its members, which manifests in the chamber’s right to impose disciplinary measures on its members (written warning, monetary fine, or deletion from the list of the members of the chamber) in cases when they have committed misconduct fulfilling the features of disciplinary offence.\n\nBesides these two areas in which the Chamber of Restorers as the authority of the so-called interest self-government fulfils tasks in the field of public administration from the position of its executor, its duty is also to promote and protect the rights of the professional, social and economic interests of its members, as well as to protect the professional honor of its members.\n\nThe task of the Chamber of Restorers is also to cooperate with the providers of the university level education with restoration specialisation in the area of the Slovak Republic and to propose measures leading to improvement of the quality of the education in this field and the preparation for the profession restorer.\n\nThe Chamber of Restorers in the interest of providing the highest possible protection and the widest accessibility of the cultural heritage to the public cooperates with the government bodies, local self-government with the domestic and foreign partner professional chambers and professional associations acting in the field of restoration activity and activities related to the restoration activity. As a result of its long-term activity in the area of cooperation also on the European level the Chamber of Restorers in the year 2005 became a full member of the European Confederation of Conservator-Restorers´ Organisations – E.C.C.O. which acts as an international body gathering professional organisations from the member states of the European Union and the EEA which is also a permanent specialised partner of the European Commission and the Council of Europe in the area of the protection and restoration of European objects of cultural heritage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEgypt is the richest country in Africa and the Middle East for photographic treasures dating back from 1850. Egypt is also well known for its vast library collections, for the great part in public institutions such as the National Library Dar El Kutub, university libraries, museums etc. Public and private collections of antique photographs and books in Egypt are in a state of rapid deterioration due to environmental factors.\nIn order to address these issues, Catania University and Helwan University, in cooperation with Egyptian-Italian Center for the Conservation of Antique Photographs and Paper Heritage (acronym EICAP), propose a master in Conservation of Antique Photographs and Paper Heritage.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15530283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15530283", "title": "List of paraphilias", "text": "List of paraphilias\n\nParaphilias are sexual interests in objects, situations, or individuals that are atypical. The American Psychiatric Association, in its \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, Fifth Edition\" (DSM), draws a distinction between paraphilias (which it describes as atypical sexual interests) and paraphilic disorders (which additionally require the experience of distress or impairment in functioning). Some paraphilias have more than one term to describe them, and some terms overlap with others. Paraphilias without DSM codes listed come under DSM 302.9, \"Paraphilia NOS (Not Otherwise Specified)\".\n\nIn his 2008 book on sexual pathologies, Anil Aggrawal compiled a list of 547 terms describing paraphilic sexual interests. He cautioned, however, that \"not all these paraphilias have necessarily been seen in clinical setups. This may not be because they do not exist, but because they are so innocuous they are never brought to the notice of clinicians or dismissed by them. Like allergies, sexual arousal may occur from anything under the sun, including the sun.\"\n\nMost of the following names for paraphilias, constructed in the nineteenth and especially twentieth centuries from Greek and Latin roots (see List of medical roots, suffixes and prefixes), are used in medical contexts only.\n\n"}
{"id": "48609422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48609422", "title": "Marfeel", "text": "Marfeel\n\nMarfeel is a Spanish-based cloud-solution company offering a platform that provides website and advertisement space display optimization in mobile websites. It was founded in Barcelona in 2011 by Xavi Beumala, and Juan Margenat, with the two also acting as the company's executives. Marfeel has been acknowledged as one of the Top 100 European startups for 2015 by Wired Magazine. and one of Spain's Top 50 most promising startups by Emprendedores Magazine in 2016\n\nOn April 2016, Marfeel was named a Gartner's Cool Vendor in Mobile Marketing, 2016, recognizing the company's 360 mobile solution for content publishers as innovative, Impactful & Intriguing.\n\nMarfeel was established in 2011 in Barcelona by Xavi Beumala, and Juan Margenat; Beumala was an Adobe employee, while Margenat was a civil engineer active in Barcelona's startup scene. Shortly after its establishment, Marfeel was a competitor at \"The TechCrunch Barcelona Meetup\", a competition it eventually won. Prior to requesting its first funding, the company was accepted in two startup accelerators: Wayra, Telefónica's's accelerator and SeedRocket. The initial idea came as Beumala noticed that most websites, when displayed in mobile devices or tablets, offered a rather impractical duplicate of their desktop version. Beumala and Margenat, both avid technology fans, thought that they could combine these interests to create a business solution to the problem.\n\nMarfeel raised $2 million in 2013, in a Series A round. The round was led by Nauta Capital, with Elaia Partners, BDMI, and Wayra also investing. After announcing a 300% growth in 2015, Marfeel was listed in \"The Next Web's European Tech5\" in March 2015. In January 2015 Marfeel became a certified Google partner, becoming Spain's first Google recommended mobile vendor. The company initiated a Series B funding round in late 2015, receiving a sum of $3.5 million. Marfeel aimed at using the funding to open an office in New York, expand its business the United States, and improve its technology.\n\nOn February 2016, Marfeel has become an official collaborator on Google's Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) Project, simplifying the new solution's publisher implementation process and allowing deep linking into publisher's own mobile properties, directly from search engine results.\n\nOn April 2016, TechCrunch announced Marfeel's full support for Facebook's newly-launched Instant Articles, providing a mobile publishing format that enables news publishers to distribute articles to Facebook's app, loading and displaying content significantly faster than the standard mobile web, within Facebook itself. Marfeel customer websites are fully Instant Articles- enabled and optimized.\n\nOn April 2016, Marfeel was named a Gartner's Cool Vendor in Mobile Marketing, 2016, citing the company's ground-breaking 360 mobile solution for content publishers.\n\nOn May 2016, Marfeel was included in Forrester's Ad Blocking Research, alongside Google, Akamai, Star Tribune, The Washington Post and others.\n\nMarfeel has developed a platform that allows websites to be automatically converted and adjust their content when displayed on mobile devices, in order to be user-friendly and allow easier reading with less distraction, resulting in an optimized monetization, through mobile advertising. An immediate result of easier reading is increase of readership time by users, which results in an increase of advertisement revenue for publishers. Real-time bidding is used by Marfeel to facilitate advertising through its platform. A website's integration in Marfeel's platform could be completed in about two days. Marfeel's platform, not being a mobile app, works within the browser and the websites' users do not have to download it.\n\nMarfeel was recommended by Google as a supplier of website display optimization, thus becoming the first Spanish startup to be certified by Google for a mobile design solution. Well known clients of Marfeel include National Geographic, Cosmopolitan, Men's Health, Elle, Dennis Publishing, PopSugar, and Sport.es.\n\n"}
{"id": "57248313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57248313", "title": "Morkai", "text": "Morkai\n\nMorkai is a tribe that lives around the Tabibuga Station of Jimi District. The tribe is further sub divided into the smaller clans Kimbaka, Keska, Galeboka, Maika, Nipka and Parka. The Tabibuga Station stands on Galemboka's and Kimbaka's land mass. \n\nThe Morkai tribe speaks the Narak language. There is no inter marriage between the Kimbaka - Keska and Galemboka, but there is marriage between the rest of the clans. The normal livelihood of Morkais are through substiance farming. Main stable food of Morkai tribe is Kaukau (sweet potato), with other seasonal food such as Taro, Yams and Cassavas are harvested. Mareta (Red Panda-nut) is a popular cash crop and is also mainly used for exchanges and bride price gifts. \n\nPigs are a wide form of live stock wealth. Pigs are also traded for cash or used in exchange for compensation payments and bride price payments. Also pigs are slaughtered for ceremonial activities.\n"}
{"id": "36607750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36607750", "title": "Mowri", "text": "Mowri\n\nMowri (Persian: مُوری) also Romanized as Mouri or Moori are a sub-group of Dorikan tribe, who they themselves are a sub-branch of Haft Lang side of Bakhtiari people.\n"}
{"id": "1435585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1435585", "title": "Nobiin language", "text": "Nobiin language\n\nNobiin, or Mahas, is a Northern Nubian language of the Nilo-Saharan phylum. \"Nobiin\" is the genitive form of \"Nòòbíí\" (\"Nubian\") and literally means \"(language) of the Nubians\". Another term used is \"Noban tamen\", meaning \"the Nubian language\".\n\nAt least 2500 years ago, the first Nubian speakers migrated into the Nile valley from the southwest. Old Nubian is thought to be ancestral to Nobiin. Nobiin is a tonal language with contrastive vowel and consonant length. The basic word order is subject–object–verb.\n\nNobiin is currently spoken along the banks of the Nile in Upper Egypt and northern Sudan by approximately 610,000 Nubians. Present-day Nobiin speakers are almost universally multilingual in local varieties of Arabic, generally speaking Modern Standard Arabic (for official purposes) as well as Sa'idi Arabic or Sudanese Arabic. Many Nobiin-speaking Nubians were forced to relocate in 1963–1964 to make room for the construction of the Aswan Dam at Aswan, Egypt and for the upstream Lake Nasser.\n\nThere is no standardised orthography for Nobiin. It has been written in both Latin and Arabic scripts; also, recently there have been efforts to revive the Old Nubian alphabet. This article adopts the Latin orthography used in the only published grammar of Nobiin, Roland Werner's (1987) \"Grammatik des Nobiin\".\n\nBefore the construction of the Aswan Dam, speakers of Nobiin lived in the Nile valley between the third cataract in the south and Korosko in the north. About 60% of the territory of Nubia was destroyed or rendered unfit for habitation as a result of the construction of the dam and the creation of Lake Nasser. At least half of the Nubian population was forcibly resettled. Nowadays, Nobiin speakers live in the following areas: (1) near Kom Ombo, Egypt, about 40 km north of Aswan, where new housing was provided by the Egyptian government for approximately 50,000 Nubians; (2) in the New Halfa Scheme in the Kassala, Sudan, where housing and work was provided by the Sudanese government for Nubians from the inundated areas around Wadi Halfa; (3) in the Northern state, Sudan, northwards from Burgeg to the Egyptian border at Wadi Halfa. Additionally, many Nubians have moved to large cities like Cairo and Khartoum. In recent years, some of the resettled Nubians have returned to their traditional territories around Abu Simbel and Wadi Halfa.\n\nPractically all speakers of Nobiin are bilingual in Egyptian Arabic or Sudanese Arabic. For the men, this was noted as early as 1819 by the traveller Johann Ludwig Burckhardt in his \"Travels to Nubia\". The forced resettlement in the second half of the twentieth century also brought more Nubians, especially women and children, into daily contact with Arabic. Chief factors in this development include increased mobility (and hence easy access to non-Nubian villages and cities), changes in social patterns such as women going more often to the market to sell their own products, and easy access to Arabic newspapers. In urban areas, many Nubian women go to school and are fluent in Arabic; they usually address their children in Arabic, reserving Nobiin for their husband. In response to concerns about a possible language shift to Arabic, Werner notes a very positive language attitude. Rouchdy (1992a) however notes that use of Nobiin is confined mainly to the domestic circle, as Arabic is the dominant language in trade, education, and public life. Sociolinguistically, the situation may be described as one of stable bilingualism: the dominant language (Arabic in this case), although used widely, does not easily replace the minority language since the latter is tightly connected to the Nubian identity.\n\nNobiin has been called \"Mahas(i)\", \"Mahas-Fiadidja\", and \"Fiadicca\" in the past. Mahas and Fiadidja are geographical terms which correspond to two dialectal variants of Nobiin; the differences between these two dialects are negligible, and some have argued that there is no evidence of a dialectal distinction at all. Nobiin should not be confused with the Nubi language, an Arabic-based creole.\n\nNobiin is one of the few languages of Africa to have a written history that can be followed over the course of more than a millennium. Old Nubian, preserved in a sizable collection of mainly early Christian manuscripts and documented in detail by Gerald M. Browne (1944–2004), is considered ancestral to Nobiin. Many manuscripts have been unearthed in the Nile Valley, mainly between the first and fifth cataracts, testifying to a firm Nubian presence in the area during the first millennium. A dialect cluster related to Nobiin, Dongolawi, is found in the same area. The Nile-Nubian languages were the languages of the Christian Nubian kingdoms.\n\nThe other Nubian languages are found hundreds of kilometers to the southwest, in Darfur and in the Nuba Mountains of Kordofan. For a long time it was assumed that the Nubian peoples dispersed from the Nile Valley to the south, probably at the time of the downfall of the Christian kingdoms. However, comparative lexicostatistic research in the second half of the twentieth century has shown that the spread must have been in the opposite direction. Joseph Greenberg (as cited in Thelwall 1982) calculated that a split between Hill Nubian and the two Nile-Nubian languages occurred at least 2500 years ago. This is corroborated by the fact that the oral tradition of the Shaigiya tribe of the Jaali group of arabized Nile Nubians tells of coming from the southwest long ago. The speakers of Nobiin are thought to have come to the area before the speakers of the related Kenzi-Dongolawi languages (see classification below).\n\nSince the seventh century, Nobiin has been challenged by Arabic. The economic and cultural influence of Egypt over the region was considerable, and, over the centuries, Egyptian Arabic spread south. Areas like al-Maris became almost fully Arabized. The conversion of Nubia to Islam after the fall of the Christian kingdoms further enhanced the Arabization process. In what is today Sudan, Sudanese Arabic became the main vernacular of the Funj Sultanate, with Nobiin becoming a minority tongue. In Egypt, the Nobiin speakers were also part of a largely Arabic-speaking state, but Egyptian control over the south was limited. With the Ottoman conquest of the region in the sixteenth century, official support for Arabization largely ended, as the Turkish and Circassian governments in Cairo sometimes saw Nobiin speakers as a useful ally. However, as Arabic remained a language of high importance in Sudan and especially Egypt, Nobiin continued to be under pressure, and its use became largely confined to Nubian homes.\n\nNobiin is one of the about eleven Nubian languages. It has traditionally been grouped with the Dongolawi cluster, mainly based on the geographic proximity of the two (before the construction of the Aswan Dam, varieties of Dongolawi were spoken north and south of the Nobiin area, in Kunuz and Dongola respectively). The uniformity of this 'Nile-Nubian' branch was first called into doubt by Thelwall (1982) who argued, based on lexicostatistical evidence, that Nobiin must have split off from the other Nubian languages earlier than Dongolawi. In Thelwall's classification, Nobiin forms a \"Northern\" branch on its own whereas Dongolawi is considered part of Central Nubian, along with Birged (North Darfur) and the Hill Nubian languages (Nuba Mountains, Kordofan).\n\nIn recent times, research by Marianne Bechhaus-Gerst has shed more light on the relations between Nobiin and Dongolawi. The groups have been separated so long that they do not share a common identity; additionally, they differ in their traditions about their origins. The languages are clearly genetically related, but the picture is complicated by the fact that there are also indications of contact-induced language change (Bechhaus-Gerst 1996). Nobiin appears to have had a strong influence on Dongolawi, as evidenced by similarities between the phoneme inventories as well as the occurrence of numerous borrowed grammatical morphemes. This has led some to suggest that Dongolawi in fact is \"a 'hybrid' language between old Nobiin and pre-contact Dongolawi\" (Heine & Kuteva 2001:400). Evidence of the reverse influence is much rarer, although there are some late loans in Nobiin which are thought to come from Dongolawi (Bechhaus-Gerst 1996:306).\n\nThe Nubian languages are part of the Eastern Sudanic branch of the Nilo-Saharan languages. On the basis of a comparison with seventeen other Eastern Sudanic languages, Thelwall (1982) considers Nubian to be most closely related to Tama, a member of the Taman group, with an average lexical similarity of just 22.2 per cent.\n\nNobiin has open and closed syllables: \"ág\" ‘mouth’, \"één\" ‘woman’, \"gíí\" ‘uncle’, \"kám\" ‘camel’, \"díís\" ‘blood’. Every syllable bears a tone. Long consonants are only found in intervocalic position, whereas long vowels can occur in initial, medial and final position. Phonotactically, there might be a weak relationship between the occurrence of consonant and vowel length: forms like \"dàrrìl\" 'climb' and \"dààrìl\" 'be present' are found, but \"*dàrìl\" (short V + short C) and \"*dààrrìl\" (long V + long C) do not exist; similarly, \"féyyìr\" 'grow' and \"fééyìr\" 'lose (a battle)' occur, but not \"*féyìr\" and \"*fééyyìr\".\n\nNobiin has a five vowel system. The vowels and can be realised close or more open (as and , respectively). Vowels can be long or short, e.g. \"jáákí\" 'fear' (long ), \"jàkkàr\" 'fish-hook' (short ). However, many nouns are unstable with regard to vowel length; thus, \"bálé\" : \"báléé\" ‘feast’, \"ííg\" : \"íg\" ‘fire’, \"shártí\" : \"sháártí\" ‘spear’. Diphthongs are interpreted as sequences of vowels and the glides and .\n\nConsonant length is contrastive in Nobiin, e.g. \"dáwwí\" 'path' vs. \"dáwí\" 'kitchen'. Like vowel length, consonant length is not very stable; long consonants tend to be shortened in many cases (e.g. the Arabic loan \"dùkkáán\" ‘shop’ is often found as \"dùkáán\").\n\nThe phoneme /p/ has a somewhat marginal status as it only occurs as a result of certain morphophonological processes. The voiced plosive /b/ is mainly in contrast with /f/. Originally, [z] only occurred as an allophone of /s/ before voiced consonants; however, through the influx of loanwords from Arabic it has acquired phonemic status: \"àzáábí\" 'pain'. The glottal fricative [h] occurs as an allophone of /s, t, k, f, g/ (\"síddó\" → \"híddó\" 'where?'; \"tánnátóón\" → \"tánnáhóón\" 'of him/her'; \"ày fàkàbìr\" → \"ày hàkàbìr\" 'I will eat'; \"dòllàkúkkàn\" → \"dòllàhúkkàn\" 'he has loved'. This process is unidirectional (i.e. /h/ will never change into one of the above consonants) and it has been termed 'consonant switching' (\"Konsonantenwechsel\") by Werner (1987:36). Only in very few words, if any, does /h/ have independent phonemical status: Werner lists \"híssí\" 'voice' and \"hòòngìr\" 'braying', but it might be noted that the latter example is less convincing because of its probably onomatopoeic nature. The alveolar liquids /l/ and /r/ are in free variation as in many African languages. The approximant /w/ is a voiced labial-velar.\n\nNobiin is a tonal language, in which tone is used to mark lexical contrasts. Tone also figures heavily in morphological derivation. Nobiin has two underlying tones, high and low. A falling tone occurs in certain contexts; this tone can in general be analysed as arising from a high and a low tone together.\n\n\nIn Nobiin, every utterance ends in a low tone. This is one of the clearest signs of the occurrence of a boundary tone, realized as a low tone on the last syllable of any prepausal word. The examples below show how the surface tone of the high tone verb ókkír- ‘cook’ depends on the position of the verb. In the first sentence, the verb is not final (because the question marker –náà is appended) and thus it is realized as high. In the second sentence, the verb is at the end of the utterance, resulting in a low tone on the last syllable.\n\n\nTone plays an important role in several derivational processes. The most common situation involves the loss of the original tone pattern of the derivational base and the subsequent assignment of low tone, along with the affixation of a morpheme or word bringing its own tonal pattern (see below for examples).\n\nFor a long time, the Nile Nubian languages were thought to be non-tonal; early analyses employed terms like \"stress\" or \"accent\" to describe the phenomena now recognized as a tone system. Carl Meinhof reported that only remnants of a tone system could be found in the Nubian languages. He based this conclusion not only on his own data, but also on the observation that Old Nubian had been written without tonal marking. Based on accounts like Meinhof’s, Nobiin was considered a toneless language for the first half of the twentieth century. The statements of \"de facto\" authorities like Meinhof, Diedrich Hermann Westermann, and Ida C. Ward heavily affected the next three decades of linguistic theorizing about stress and tone in Nobiin. As late as 1968, Herman Bell was the first scholar to develop an account of tone in Nobiin. Although his analysis was still hampered by the occasional confusion of accent and tone, he is credited by Roland Werner as being the first to recognize that Nobiin is a genuinely tonal language, and the first to lay down some elementary tonal rules.\n\nThe basic personal pronouns of Nobiin are:\n\nThere are three sets of possessive pronouns. One of them is transparently derived from the set of personal pronouns plus a connexive suffix \"–íín\". Another set is less clearly related to the simple personal pronouns; all possessive pronouns of this set bear a High tone. The third set is derived from the second set by appending the nominalizing suffix \"-ní\".\n\nNobiin has two demonstrative pronouns: \"ìn\" 'this', denoting things nearby, and \"mán\" 'that', denoting things farther away. Both can function as the subject or the object in a sentence; in the latter case they take the object marker \"-gá\" yielding \"ìngà\" and \"mángá\", respectively (for the object marker, see also below). The demonstrative pronoun always precedes the nouns it refers to.\n\n\nNouns in Nobiin are predominantly disyllabic, although monosyllabic and three- or four-syllabic nouns are also found. Nouns can be derived from adjectives, verbs, or other nouns by appending various suffixes. In plural formation, the tone of a noun becomes Low and one of four plural markers is suffixed. Two of these are Low in tone, while the other two have a High tone.\n\n\nIn most cases it is not predictable which plural suffix a noun will take. Furthermore, many nouns can take different suffixes, e.g. \"ág\" 'mouth' → \"àgìì/àgríí\". However, nouns that have final \"-éé\" usually take Plural 2 (\"-ncìì\"), whereas disyllabic Low-High nouns typically take Plural 1 (\"-ìì\").\n\nGender is expressed lexically, occasionally by use of a suffix, but more often with a different noun altogether, or, in the case of animals, by use of a separate nominal element \"óndí\" ‘masculine’ or \"kàrréé\" ‘feminine’:\n\n\nThe pair \"male slave/female slave\" forms an interesting exception, showing gender marking through different endings of the lexeme: \"òsshí\" 'slave (m)' vs. \"òsshá\" 'slave (f)'. An Old Nubian equivalent which does not seem to show the gender is \"oshonaeigou\" 'slaves'; the plural suffix \"-gou\" has a modern equivalent in \"-gúú\" (see above).\n\nIn compound nouns composed of two nouns, the tone of the first noun becomes Low while the appended noun keeps its own tonal pattern.\n\n\nMany compounds are found in two forms, one more lexicalized than the other. Thus, it is common to find both the coordinated noun phrase \"háhám ámán\" 'the water of the river' and the compound noun \"bàhàm-ámán\" 'river-water', distinguished by their tonal pattern.\n\nVerbal morphology in Nobiin is subject to numerous morphophonological processes, including syllable contraction, vowel elision, and assimilation of all sorts and directions. A distinction needs to be made between the verbal base and the morphemes that follow. The majority of verbal bases in Nobiin end in a consonant (e.g. \"nèèr-\" ‘sleep’, \"kàb-\" ‘eat’, \"tíg-\" ‘follow’, \"fìyyí-\" ‘lie’); notable exceptions are \"júú-\" ‘go’ and \"níí-\" ‘drink’. Verbal bases are mono- or disyllabic. The verbal base carries one of three or four tonal patterns. The main verb carries person, number, tense, and aspect information.\n\n\nOnly rarely do verbal bases occur without appended morphemes. One such case is the use of the verb \"júú-\" 'go' in a serial verb-like construction.\n\n\nThe basic word order in a Nobiin sentence is subject–object–verb. Objects are marked by an object suffix \"-gá\", often assimilating to the final consonant of the word (e.g. \"kìtááb\" 'book', \"kìtááppá\" 'book-' as seen below). In a sentence containing both an indirect and a direct object, the object marker is suffixed to both.\n\n\nQuestions can be constructed in various ways in Nobiin. Constituent questions ('Type 1', questions about 'who?', 'what?', etc.) are formed by use of a set of verbal suffixes in conjunction with question words. Simple interrogative utterances ('Type 2') are formed by use of another set of verbal suffixes.\n\nSome of the suffixes are similar. Possible ambiguities are resolved by the context. Some examples:\n\n\nThe Gospel of Mark was translated into Nobiin by Karl Richard Lepsius and published in 1860 in Roman script. This was edited by Leo Reinisch, and republished in 1885 by the British and Foreign Bible Society. In 1899 it was transliterated into Arabic characters by Theodor Irrsich at Alexandria, and reissued in 1906. \nOld Nubian, considered ancestral to Nobiin, was written in an uncial variety of the Greek alphabet, extended with three Coptic letters — ϣ \"sh\", ϩ \"h\", and ϭ \"j\" — and three unique to Nubian: ⳡ \"ny\" and ⳣ \"w\", apparently derived from the Meroitic alphabet; and ⳟ \"ng\", thought to be a ligature of two Greek gammas.\n\nThere are three currently active proposals for the script of Nobiin (Asmaa 2004, Hashim 2004): the Arabic script, the Latin script and the Old Nubian alphabet. Since the 1950s, Latin has been used by 4 authors, Arabic by 2, and Old Nubian by 1, in the publication of various books of proverbs, dictionaries, and textbooks. For Arabic, the extended Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization system may be used to indicate vowels and consonants not found in Arabic itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "418228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418228", "title": "Nopal", "text": "Nopal\n\nNopal (from the Nahuatl word \"nohpalli\" for the pads of the plant) is a common name in Mexican Spanish for \"Opuntia\" cacti (commonly referred to in English as \"prickly pear\"), as well as for its pads.\n\nThere are approximately one hundred and fourteen known species endemic to Mexico, where the plant is a common ingredient in numerous Mexican cuisine dishes. The nopal pads can be eaten raw or cooked, used in marmalades, soups, stews and salads, as well as being used for traditional medicine or as fodder for animals. Farmed nopales are most often of the species \"Opuntia ficus-indica\" or \"Opuntia matudae\" although the pads of almost all \"Opuntia\" species are edible. The other part of the nopal cactus that is edible is the fruit called the \"tuna\" in Spanish, and the \"prickly pear\" in English.\n\nNopales are generally sold fresh in Mexico, cleaned of spines, and sliced to the customer's desire on the spot, they can also be found canned or bottled, and less often dried, especially for export. Cut into slices or diced into cubes, nopales have a light, slightly tart flavor, like green beans, and a crisp, mucilaginous texture. In most recipes, the mucilaginous liquid they contain is included in the cooking. They are at their most tender and juicy in the spring.\n\nNopales are most commonly used in Mexican cuisine in dishes such as \"huevos con nopales\" \"eggs with nopal\", \"carne con nopales\" \"meat with nopal\", \"tacos de nopales\", in salads with tomato, onion, and queso panela (panela cheese), or simply on their own as a side vegetable. Nopales have also grown to be an important ingredient in New Mexican cuisine and in Tejano culture of Texas.\n\nPer US cup serving, nopal fruit is an excellent source of the dietary mineral manganese (20% of the Daily Value, DV) and a good source of vitamin C (13% DV), magnesium (11% DV) and calcium (14% DV), with nutrient content improving as the plant matures. Its calcium may not be biologically available because it is present as calcium oxalate, a non-absorbable complex in the small intestine.\n\nThe nopal cactus grows extensively throughout Mexico, being especially abundant in the central Mexican arid and semi arid regions. In Mexico there are over three million hectares (ha) of land used to cultivate nopal. There are three typical ways to cultivate nopal cacti — commercial plantations, family farms and gardens, or in the wild. The main use for cultivated nopal is for feed for livestock with one hundred and fifty thousand hectares designated to that purpose. After that, approximately ha are used to produce prickly pear fruit, ha for the pads production, and 100 ha to cochineal production. In 1996 there were prickly pear farmers, as well as around 8000 general nopal farmers, with all of the people involved in the processing industries and in cochineal production, employing a significant number of the Mexican population. Nopal is grown in eighteen of the Mexican states with 74% in the Distrito Federal, with an annual yield of tons of both the \"tuna\" and the pads. The farming of nopal provides many subsistence communities with employment, food, income, and allows them to remain on their land.\n\nDetection of the cactus-eating moth \"Cactoblastis cactorum\" in Mexico in 2006 caused anxiety among the country's phytosanitary authorities, as this insect can be potentially devastating for the cactus industry. On the other hand, the same insect was successfully used in Australia in 1925 to control the cactus population, as it became an invasive species after its introduction.\n\n"}
{"id": "42396453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42396453", "title": "Pakistanis in Nepal", "text": "Pakistanis in Nepal\n\nPakistanis in Nepal are people originating from Pakistan who reside in Nepal. There is a very small Pakistani community in the country, mainly based in Kathmandu.\n\nMany Nepali Muslim communities trace their origins to different parts of South Asia, including North India and Pakistan. These communities are heterogeneous and are mainly concentrated in the Terai region, which is home to the majority of Nepal's Muslim population. Among the earliest migrants were the Kashmiri Muslims, who arrived a few centuries ago and settled in Kathmandu. The Kashmiris were involved in different occupations, such as scribes to correspond with the Delhi Sultanate, as well as being traders, retailers, courtiers and entertainers. They speak Urdu and Nepali, with some also fluent in Newari. They are involved in business, with some joining the government service or politics. \nThere are some Pathan descendants who are found in the Kathmandu Valley. They are divided into family subdivisions and trace their Pashtun ancestry through the patrilineal line, hence family names are inherited paternally. Other Muslim groups in Nepal which are also found in Pakistan include the Mughals, Sayyids, Shaikhs, Mallaah, Ashrafs Rajputs.\n\nAs of 2015, the Pakistani community in Nepal numbered around a few hundred and was concentrated in and around the capital city of Kathmandu. Earlier from 2004 to 2012, the community was much smaller. Most Pakistanis tend to be businesspeople, officials, workers, volunteers or visitors. In addition, there are some Pakistanis working as diplomatic staff at the Pakistani embassy, residing in Nepal along with their families. The expatriates hailed from different parts of Pakistan, including Karachi, Rawalpindi, Lahore, Peshawar and Quetta. During the April 2015 Nepal earthquake, most Pakistani nationals were evacuated from the country by Pakistani relief teams in coordination with the embassy.\n\nThe Pakistani embassy in Kathmandu provides consular services and assistance to all Pakistani citizens in Nepal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57190196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57190196", "title": "Pierre Basson", "text": "Pierre Basson\n\nPierre Corneille Faculys Basson (born 1880 - January 22, 1906) was South Africa's first documented serial killer. He killed and buried at least nine people in his backyard in Claremont, Cape Town, so he could later claim their life insurance. When police officers arrived at his house, he shot himself.\n\nBasson was born in 1880 and is guilty of cruel acts at an early age. When he was 12, he hit a boy with a knife and enjoyed watching animals suffer. Among other things, he enjoyed catching and killing birds. He also cut down cats' legs to see how they curled from the pain.\n\nAs an adult, Basson lent money to people. Borrowers had to nominate themselves as beneficiaries for their insurance policies, after which he killed them between 13 February 1903, until 22 January 1906, to claim money.\n\nBasson's first victim was his brother Jasper, who drowned on a fishing trip on February 4, 1903. Jasper's body was never found and the insurance company initially did not want to pay the policy until they were ordered by a court to do so.\n\nHe took his own life when the police uncovered the grave of his last victim, Wilhelm Schaefer (a German farmer). His last words to his mother when the police started excavations in their yard were: \"I'm going to go to the police. I did not do anything wrong.\"\n\nHe was posthumously convicted of murder after 1906.\n"}
{"id": "22166724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22166724", "title": "Polygamy in the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Polygamy in the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nPolygamy in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is officially illegal, though reports of such arrests have yet to be known.\n\n"}
{"id": "36372771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36372771", "title": "Poor White", "text": "Poor White\n\nIn certain contemporary contexts the term is still used to pertain to their descendants; regardless of present economic status. While similar to other White Americans in ancestry, the Poor Whites differ notably in regard to their history and culture.\n\nThroughout American history the Poor Whites have regularly been referred to by various terms; the majority of which are often considered disparaging. They have been known as rednecks (especially in modern context), hillbillies in Appalachia, crackers in Georgia and Florida, and poor white trash. In the past the use of the term \"Poor White\" by the white Southern elite, who considered it an oxymoron, was to distance themselves from elements of society they viewed as \"undesirable\", \"lesser\" or \"antisocial.\" It denoted a separation, reflective of a social hierarchy, with \"poor\" used to demonstrate a low position, while \"white\" was used to subjugate rather than to classify. Author Wayne Flynt in his book, \"Dixie's Forgotten People: The South's Poor Whites\" (2004), argues that \"one difficulty in defining poor whites stems from the diverse ways in which the phrase has been used. It has been applied to economic and social classes as well to cultural and ethical values.\" While other regions of the United States have \"white people who are poor,\" this does not have the same meaning as \"the Poor White\" in the South. In context, \"the Poor White\" refers to a distinct sociocultural group, with members who belong to families with a history of multi-generational poverty and cultural divergence.\n\nMuch of the character and condition of Poor Whites is rooted in the institution of slavery. Rather than provide wealth as it had for the Southern elite, in stark contrast, slavery considerably hindered progress of whites who did not own slaves by exerting a crowding-out effect, eliminating free labor in the region. This effect, compounded by the area's widespread lack of public education and its general practice of endogamy, prevented low-income and low-wealth free laborers from moving to the middle class.\n\nMany fictional depictions in literature used poor whites as foils in reflecting the positive traits of the protagonist against their perceived \"savage\" traits. In her novel \"Dred,\" Harriet Beecher Stowe illustrates a commonly held stereotype that marriage to them results in generic degradation and barbarism of the better class.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, the Poor White comprised a majority of the combatants in the Confederate Army; afterwards, many labored in the rural South as sharecroppers. During the nadir of American race relations at the turn of the 20th century, intense violence, defense of honor and white supremacy flourished in a region suffering from a lack of public education and competition for resources. Southern politicians of the day built on conflict between Poor Whites and African Americans in a form of Political Opportunism. As John T. Campbell summarizes in \"The Broad Ax\" in 1906:\n\nFurther evidence of the hostility of the ruling class towards the Poor White is found in the enactment by several southern states of a poll tax, which required an annual payment of $1.00 (), to vote, in some cases, or at least payment before voting. The poll tax excluded not only African Americans, but also the many Poor Whites, from voting, as they lived in a barter economy and were cash poor.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the image of the Poor White was a prominent stereotype in American media. Sherwood Anderson's novel \"Poor White\" (1920) explored how a poor white youth from Missouri tried to adjust to a middle-class world by moving to the Midwest. The American eugenics movement encouraged the legalization of forced sterilizations. In practice, individuals who came from Poor White backgrounds were often targeted, particularly institutionalized individuals and fertile women.\n\nThe drafting and recruitment of physically fit individuals in the First World War revealed the first practical comparisons between the Appalachian region, the South, and the rest of the country. The Poor Whites were unequal in terms of income, education, and medical treatment than other White Americans; only African Americans in the Southern states fared worse.\n\nNew Deal rural life programs such as the Resettlement Administration, the Farm Security Administration and the Tennessee Valley Authority helped create new jobs for the rural poor during the Great Depression, especially in the South. In the late 1960s under the President Lyndon B. Johnson administration, the Appalachian Regional Commission was founded to deal with persistent poverty in the region. The Second World War led to new economic opportunities; millions of poor farmers moved to industrial centers for high paying jobs. As the century progressed, economic and social conditions for the Poor White continued to improve. However while many social prejudices have since been lifted, popularized stereotypes surrounding the Poor White continued.\n\nHistorically, especially in Appalachia, Poor Whites lived somewhat removed from mainstream Southern society. At the turn of the 20th century, Abbott H. Ernest subdivided the Poor White group into the Appalachian \"mountain whites\" and those who live in the flatlands farther east and west. Privileged whites (known in the South as the Bourbon class) had little interaction with the poor, oftentimes limited to no more than, \"whom he would wonder see staring at him from the sides of the highway.\" The physical and geographic isolation enabled poor whites in Appalachia to develop their own culture.\n\nAs was typical in general rural society for generations, the Poor White continued to make many of their necessities by hand. They sewed their own garments and constructed houses in the fashion of log cabins or dogtrots. Traditional clothing was simple: for men, jeans and a collarless, cuffless unbleached-muslin shirt; and for women, a straight skirt with a bonnet of the same material. The Poor White survived by small-scale subsistence agriculture, hunter-gathering, charity, fishing, bartering with slaves and seeking what employment they could find. Some moved to take jobs in cotton mills and factories, which were originally reserved for whites. Many slaveowners refused to use slaves for skilled labor because doing so would both increase owners' dependence on specific slaves and increase the likelihood that those slaves would run away in pursuit of self-employment elsewhere. Due to the historical lack of formal education in the South, early Poor White culture focused more on artistic rather than intellectual pursuits. The Poor Whites have been crucial for their musical contributions to: Bluegrass, Country and Rock and Roll.\n\nA broad characterization of the culture, of the descendants of the Poor Whites, includes such elements as strong kinship ties, non-hierarchical religious affiliations, emphasis on manual labor, connection to rural living and nature, and inclination toward self-reliance. In addition, individuals from backgrounds historically rooted among the Poor Whites still carry much of the culture and often continue many of the practices of their forefathers. Hunting and fishing, while practiced by their ancestors as a method of survival, is now seen as a means of recreation. Variations on folk music, particularly Country, still have strong resonance among their descendants. Traditional country music still uses the banjo, dulcimer and fiddle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1556296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1556296", "title": "Poro", "text": "Poro\n\nThe Poro, or Purrah or Purroh, is a men's secret society in Sierra Leone, Liberia, Guinea and the Ivory Coast, introduced by the Mande people. It is sometimes referred to as a hunting society and only males are admitted to its ranks. The female counterpart of the Poro society is the Sande society.\n\nThe Poro society was part of the culture introduced by Mande people, migrants to the region as early as 1000 AD.\n\nTwo affiliated and secret associations exist in Sierra Leone, the Yassi and the Bundu. The first is nominally reserved for females, but members of the Poro are admitted to certain ceremonies. All the female members of the Yassi must be also members of the Bundu, which is strictly reserved to women. In Liberia, the female equivalent of the Poro is the Sande society.\n\nOf the three, the Poro is by far the most important. The entire native population is governed by its code of laws. It primarily represents a type of fraternal society to which even infants are temporarily admitted. The ceremony for them consists of carrying them into the Poro bush and out again.\n\nThere are also religious and civil aspects of the Poro. Under the former, boys join it at puberty in a rite of passage. Under its civil aspects, the society serves as a kind of native governing body, making laws, deciding on war and peace, etc.\n\nIn \"Culture and customs of Liberia\" (2006) by Ayodeji Olukoju, the place of the Poro society in Liberian life is examined. \"Liberian religious culture is characterised by a predisposition towards secrecy (encapsulated in the concept of \"ifa mo\" - \"do not speak it\") and an ingrained belief in the intervention of mysterious forces in human affairs\". \"Both elite and non-elite Liberians usually attribute events to the activities of secret powers and forces.\"\n\n\"Beliefs include the conviction that there are deep and hidden things about an individual that only diviners, priests, and other qualified persons can unravel. This presupposes that whatever exists or happens in the physical realm has foundations in the spirit world\".\n\nOne of the social functions of secret societies like the Poro and Sande is to deter antisocial behavior or beliefs. Poro elders will determine cases of alleged witchcraft in the community.\n\nThe Poro society has its own special rituals and language, tattooing and symbols. Details are scarce, due to an oath of secrecy.\n\nThe Poro society usually meets in the dry season, between the months of October and May. The rendezvous is in the bush, at an enclosure, separated into apartments by mats and roofed only by the overhanging trees, serving as a club-house. There are three grades, the first for chiefs and big men, the second for fetish-priests and the third for the crowd. The ceremonies of the Poro are presided over by the Poro devil, a man in fetish dress, who addresses the meeting through a long tube of wood.\n\nThe wearing of wooden masks in Poro society masquerades is a representation of the spirit world of benign and malevolent spirits.\n\"The ceremonies of the Purrah are presided over by the Poro devil, a man in fetish dress, who addresses the meeting through a long tube of wood, known as a bull-roarer (voice distorter which delivers a bloodcurdling stream of sounds, and is made from a tube with holes cut into it over which discs of membrane from the egg sacks of a particular spider are spread over).\" The Liberian Poro is little different when it comes to ceremonies. \n\nIf a ceremony has women, children and non-members taking part, the devil stays out. The Gbetoo is the only \"fetish dressed up with long tube of wood\" that can be seen. The poro devil is invisible even to most members.\n\nThe Poro can place its taboo on anything or anybody. As no member would defy its order, much trouble has been caused where the taboo has been laid upon crops. In 1897 the British local government was compelled to pass a special ordinance forbidding the imposition of the taboo on all indigenous products.\n\nIn 2009, rock-throwing Poro members protested the selection of Elizabeth Simbiwa Sogbo-Tortu as the first female chief of the Niminyama chiefdom in eastern Sierra Leone. They barred her from taking office.\n\nDuring his rule, Charles Taylor is reported to have coopted the Poro Society, which helped him project an aura of mystery and invincibility. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "433239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433239", "title": "Powergaming", "text": "Powergaming\n\nPowergaming (or power gaming) is a style of interacting with games or game-like systems, particularly video games, boardgames, and role-playing games, with the aim of maximising progress towards a specific goal, to the exclusion of other considerations such as storytelling, atmosphere and camaraderie. Due to its focus on the letter of the rules over the spirit of the rules, it is often seen as unsporting, un-fun, or unsociable. This behaviour is most often found in games with a wide range of game features, lengthy campaigns or prize tournaments such as massively multiplayer or collectible games. Those wishing to discuss the behavior without pejorative connotation may use the neutral term optimization.\n\nPowergaming in roleplaying games can take several forms. One form is the deliberate creation of optimal player characters (PCs), with the aim of maximising the power the player wields in the game world. This is known as min-maxing, due to the practice of maximising desirable or \"powerful\" traits while minimising underpowered or unuseful traits. Such characters often draw criticism for not fitting the theme and tone of the game world or for being difficult to challenge. Another form of powergaming involves a focus on acquiring power during game progression, often by acquiring powerful equipment or unusual abilities. This lends itself to gameplay which is materialistic (and often, in the context of the game world, arguably amoral) and can frustrate other players who are looking to interact with the game world, score points, and not merely acquire game resources. Another term for a powergamer is a munchkin, who may be differentiated from normal powergamers to describe players who seek to acquire power and loot at the expense their teammates.\n\nIn online text-based role-playing games that emphasize collaborative role-play over acquiring levels or skills, a player can be described as a powergamer if he or she presumes or declares that his or her own action against another player character is successful without giving the other player character the freedom to act on his or her own prerogative. They may also be a player who tries to force others to participate in unwanted role-playing. For instance, a player who unilaterally describes his character as doing something with (or to) another character that would usually require the other to play along — such as having a fight or a sexual encounter — is considered to be powergaming. In such games, in which a sense of community and rapport between players is seen as crucial and conducive to the game's overall well-being, powergaming is generally regarded as extremely offensive behaviour if it is not stated in the rules as being a bannable offense. It is often seen as synonymous with twinking or \"godmoding\".\n\nIn video games, powergamers enjoy being at the bleeding edge of progression of their selected game, taking part in every activity that yields the fastest progression, and bypassing the \"lesser\" activities or any other secondary job/trait/skill. This is a wide generalization however. A gamer that likes to maximise all aspects of the game and do so in an expedient manner is also classified as a powergamer, often seeing more of the world than the \"average\" player would.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "365734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365734", "title": "Prince Edward Viaduct", "text": "Prince Edward Viaduct\n\nThe Prince Edward Viaduct System, commonly referred to as the Bloor Viaduct, is the name of a truss arch bridge system in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, that connects Bloor Street East, on the west side of the system, with Danforth Avenue on the east. The system includes the Rosedale Valley phase (a smaller structure, referred to as the Rosedale Valley Bridge, carrying Bloor Street over the Rosedale Ravine) and the Sherbourne Phase, an embankment built to extend Bloor Street East to the Rosedale Ravine from Sherbourne Street. The Don Valley phase of the system, the most recognizable, spans the Don River Valley, crossing over (from west to east) the Bayview Avenue Extension, the Don River, and the Don Valley Parkway.\n\nThe roadway has five lanes (three eastbound and two westbound) with a bicycle lane in each direction. The subway level connects Broadview Station in the east with Castle Frank and Sherbourne Stations to the west.\n\nDesigned by Edmund W. Burke, the Prince Edward Viaduct is a three hinged concrete-steel arch bridge with a total span of 494 metres (1,620 feet), at 40 metres (131 feet) above the Don Valley. The bridge consists of a deck made of transverse beams and I-girders, which transfer load to column supports. The column supports then transfer the load to the trusses within the arches, which transfer the load to the arches themselves. Finally, the arches transfer their load through large hinges to a concrete pier and eventually to the ground. Steel was provided by Dominion Bridge Company.\n\nIn addition to the Don River, the Don Valley Parkway, and Bayview Avenue, two railway lines, an electrical transmission line and a bicycle trail all pass under the bridge spans.\n\nReferenda on the construction of the Prince Edward Viaduct were held in Toronto in every year from 1910 to 1913, with residents voting against its construction in 1912 by 59 votes and in favour in 1913 by 9236 votes. The projected cost of its construction increased from in 1910 to in 1913; its final cost was ($ in dollars). Upon its completion in 1918, it was named for Prince Edward, Prince of Wales (later King Edward VIII).\nThe viaduct was designed to facilitate mass transit; its upper deck accommodated streetcars, while both the Don Valley phase and the Rosedale Valley phase included a lower deck for rail transport, controversial at the time because of its high additional cost. The bridge's designer and the commissioner of public works, R.C. Harris, were able to have their way and the lower deck eventually proved to save millions of dollars when the Toronto Transit Commission's Bloor–Danforth subway opened in 1966. The Rosedale Valley phase was not used for the subway, as the curve between each phase, as well as the curve to the west at Parliament Street, was considered too sharp for the subway. For this reason, a separate concrete bridge was built over the Rosedale Valley, just west of Castle Frank station.\n\nThe Prince Edward Viaduct resulted in more rapid development of those portions of Toronto lying on the east side of the Don Valley.\n\nOver time, the Prince Edward Viaduct became a magnet for suicide, falling bodies posing risk to the traffic underneath. With nearly 500 suicides by 2003, the viaduct ranked as the second most fatal standing structure in North America, after the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco. At its peak in 1997, the suicide rate averaged one person every 22 days. In 1957, a child also climbed onto the railing and fell accidentally while walking along it.\n\nThe suicides and safety risks prompted the construction of a barrier in 2003, though it was first approved by Toronto City Council in 1998 and delayed because of concerns about funding; during that time, the viaduct was the site of an estimated 48 to 60 suicides. The council originally approved a budget. However, the minimum bid for construction was . Council eventually endorsed a fundraising campaign to raise the remainder of the money. Construction was completed in 2003 at the cost of , with coming from taxpayers.\n\nThe barrier was called the \"Luminous Veil\". Designed by architect Dereck Revington and engineers at Halcrow Yolles and completed in 2003, the Luminous Veil consists of over 9,000 steel rods, 12.7 cm apart and 5 m high, stretched to cantilevered girders. The tensile structure was difficult to analyze and required several tests at the University of Toronto. Initially, cost prohibited the planned lighting to be installed on the top horizontal member. The lighting installation was completed in July 2015. The Luminous Veil received in 1999 a Canadian Architect Award of Excellence.\n\nA 2010 study found that though the barrier prevented suicide attempts from the Viaduct, overall rates of suicide by jumping for the city of Toronto have not changed since its construction.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35004358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35004358", "title": "Rasa Renaissance", "text": "Rasa Renaissance\n\nRasa Renaissance is a movement in the art of painting that makes evocation of rasas (emotional moods) the prime aim in the creation and appreciation of a work of art. Rasa is the quality of emotional fulfilment that a work of art produces through the personalities, their expression and the situation presented in a painting. Rasa is a Sanskrit word that denotes the quality of emotional fulfilment that a work of art brings about. Rasa Theory is a theory of aesthetic criticism that has been prevalent in appreciation of literary works in Sanskrit language for millenniums (see: Indian aesthetic).\n\nThe idea of Rasa Renaissance evolved in the last quarter of the twentieth century in the domain of painting, as a countermovement to abstract and conceptual art. Rasa Renaissance is led by artist, philosopher and Sanskrit scholar Dr. Mumbiram of India (Ph.D. Berkeley California). In the twentieth century, the art of painting progressively became dissociated from depiction of personalities in real-world situations. It concerned itself with exploration of forms and colours for their own sake. It became more or less an exercise in clever intellectual sophistication. Art of Rasa Renaissance presupposes personalities in various situations, and in various emotional states, as being central to a work of art.\n\nThe emotions that the creator of a painting has in mind, the emotions that personalities who appear in a painting share with each other, as also the emotions that are aroused in the viewer of a painting, are all of concern in appreciation of a work of rasa art.\nAs emotions are states in the minds of personalities, rasa art presupposes depictions of personalities in various situations and various emotional states to be the subject matter of a rasa painting. Painting that concerns itself with depictions of personalities in various situations and various emotional states is \"personalist art\". The realm of personalist art is personalism.\n\nThroughout the long history of art there has always been personalist as well as impersonal art. Portraits of kings, demigods, gods, mythological figures, saints as also ordinary people are examples of personalist art. Scenes in the lives of important as well as ordinary people are other examples. There were also battle scenes, domestic scenes, mythological and religious events. Impersonal Art existed in the form of landscapes, still-life and decorative designs. Till the late 19th century, art remained more or less representational. The beginning of the 20th century saw art indulging in deliberate distortions in depictions of personalities as well as inanimate objects. Soon afterwards, art saw itself dissociating from representation of real-world objects and personalities. Exploration of colours and forms for their own sake, without reference to any real-world entities became the subject matter of abstract paintings. Art became impersonal.\n\nThe idea of Rasa Renaissance first appeared in the art and writings of artist Mumbiram of India. The idea of personalist art first appears in two articles that Mumbiram wrote in 1985 in his native Marathi language in Pune's \"Ravivar Sakal\". \"In Search of an Art that transcends Culture\" and \"The Practice of Personalist Art\". In these autobiographical articles, Mumbiram describes his affectionate rapport with his artist grandfather, his success as a prodigious child artist, his giving up art to devote himself to mathematics, his years in the graduate school at Berkeley, his \"déjà vu\" with art, his search for art that does not align itself with any culture (\"sanskritinirapeksha\"), his falling in love with Krishna and his arrival back in India as a personalist artist.\n\nHere Mumbiram calls his own art \"Vyaktisaapeksha Kalaa\". \"Saapekshataa\" would translate to relativity. \"Saapeksha\" would translate to 'depending on' or 'in expectation of'. \"Kalaa\" translates to Art, Art in reference to persons - Art in the context of persons. This is where the usage \"Personalist Art\" first appears.\n\nIn an article appearing in the \"Sunday Maharashtra Herald\", \"Waiting in the Wings\" in 1986, journalist Ashok Gopal introduces Mumbiram: \"Mumbiram calls his Art Personalist Art...\" The same article carries an Artist's Manifesto which makes clear reference to Personalism: \"Personalism is a frontal attack on materialism on the aesthetic front\", \"Personalism leaves no room for the existential void\".\n\nThe idea of Rasa Theory as basic to appreciation of art appears in an article about Mumbiram appearing in Mumbai's \"Sunday Observer\" in 1988 written by Sudhir Sonalkar. An interview with Mumbiram for the Mumbai tabloid \"Mid-Day\" has Mumbiram talking about Rasa Theory.\n\nDistant Drummer Publishing has produced \"High Five of Love\", a five-volume ensemble of English translations of Sanskrit Rasa classics wherein Mumbiram's original Rasa art is juxtaposed with Rasa literature. A catalog of exhibition of Mumbiram's \"Book Readers: Love on the Gutenberg Galaxy\" cites Rasa theory of aesthetic appreciation as relevant to appreciation of Mumbiram's art. It also gives an extensive bibliography of classical works on Rasa theory. Another extensive catalog of Mumbiram's work is titled: \"Rasa Renaissance\".\n\nAccording to Vaishnavism theology, Krishna is Rasaraj, the supreme source of all rasas. Depictions of incidents in Krishna's biography are most attractive subjects for Rasa art. In the \"prema vivarta\" mood of attachment to Krishna, everything in the phenomenal world appears to the lover of Krishna as a \"déjà vu\" of something related to Krishna. Many Rasa masterpieces are made in the prema vivarta mood. Ashok Gopal quotes Mumbiram: \"My raven-dark rambunctious, roaming, rag-picking girlfriends remind me of Krishna and his boys in the forests of Vrindavan.\"\n\nPre-Raphaelites were rebelling against the 'stodgy' Royal Academy. Somehow the romance was missing in the artists' lives. This group formed a secret brotherhood. Real life muses inspired their works. The inspiration was reflected in their paintings. The real lives of the artists and their works had a symbiotic relationship between them.\n\nRasa art, or art of Rasa Renaissance, is rebelling against the far more 'stodgy' art establishment of the twentieth century. Art degenerated into creation of 'brand equity' in logos. Depiction of persons was pigeonholed into the category of 'figurative' and 'representational' art for the less intelligent simpletons. Art museums, auction houses, art galleries and art schools all descended into a rut of vested interests. Rasa Renaissance rebels by bringing back into the purview of contemporary art the noble situations of human existence, the innate beauty of personalities and love amongst individuals. By the standards of the Rasa Theory of aesthetics, only Personalist Art can genuinely evoke rasas. So-called 'abstract' art is merely Impersonal Art, severely limited in its ability to invoke any rasa.\n\nThe Pre-Raphaelites used muses as models. They used monochrome, posed photographs of their muses/models to achieve realism. They spent considerable effort in painting carpets and folds in clothing. They strived to make paintings appear 'as good as' colour photographs.\n\nRasa art is inspired by real-life muses. They are not professional models. They are from an entirely different milieu. The artist meets them through personal encounter of the romantic type. Living in an era when color photography and photoshop are commonplace, rasa art is predominantly charcoal renderings. They are effortless quick live renderings. They don't aspire for photorealism. The person is of prime importance. The surroundings are not even depicted. The drama of the meeting and also the rendering is the 'high' the artist and the muses share. The admirers meet the artist in equally surprising ways. They are thrilled to be caught in the real life milieu of a classical painter. They are impulsively inspired to buy the work from the artist himself, from the environment where the work was produced.\n\nAccording to tenets of Personalism, an Impersonal paradigm of divinity gives rise to the existential void and absence of values.\nLove of impersonal objects, in preference to love of individuals, gives rise to materialism. Impersonalism in art is epitomized in abstract art.\n\nProponents of Rasa Renaissance see distortions in painting as sarcastic and cynical expressions. Rasa Art strives for simplicity, innocence, faith and devotion. Rasa Art strives for honesty to an indigenous aesthetic and an awareness of one's own beauty. Personalism sees man made in the image of God. There is no room for 'existential void'. Personalism focuses attention on love and grace amongst individuals, in preference to fascination with matter.\n\n"}
{"id": "45002498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45002498", "title": "Red Cross of Monaco", "text": "Red Cross of Monaco\n\nThe Red Cross of Monaco (), or the CRM, is the national Red Cross Society in Monaco founded in 1948.\n"}
{"id": "54650905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54650905", "title": "Rodrigo Tot", "text": "Rodrigo Tot\n\nRodrigo Tot (born c.1958) is a farmer and indigenous leader in Guatemala.\n\nHe is a member of the Q'eqchi' people. Tot was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 2017, for his efforts of protecting the land of his community from environmental damages from mining.\n\nTot was born in Guatemala just before the mining rush of the 60s. Tot lost both of his parents at a young age and went to live with extended family in Agua Caliente at age 12. \n\nIn 1985, Tot, along with 63 other indigenous farmers in his community, received a property title to work on the land in their community. Three years later, however, records of these titles disappeared, and, when the final payments for the title were made, the people were denied the legal title of the land.\n\nIn 2004, two years after the farmers were denied the right to their land, the Guatemalan government granted a mining license for a region covering 16 Mayan communities. After the mining takeover, the Q'eqchi set out to fight for their land rights in court. In 2011, the group won their lawsuit and the Guatemalan Constitutional Court issued a landmark decision that recognized the Q'edqchi people's property rights. \n"}
{"id": "25663140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25663140", "title": "Sex toy party", "text": "Sex toy party\n\nA sex toy party is a usually female-only gathering where participants learn about and buy sex toys. It is a type of party plan, similar to Tupperware parties.\n\nThe party may start with an icebreaker game, then a sex toy representative, or 'facilitator', displays and discusses the products. Although the discussion is sexually explicit, euphemisms such as 'button' for clitoris are common. The participants examine and talk about the products, with the option of purchasing them from the representative in a private room at the end of the party. Other merchandise such as bath salts, aromatherapy, and body paints are more commonly sold. The representative receives commission based on the sales from the party. There are thousands of representatives of sex toy party companies in the United States.\n\nSex toy parties began in the 1970s, and became increasingly popular in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The marketing practices of sex toy parties have encouraged alternative sexual practices. The popularity of sex toy parties has suggested to be related to self-help and self actualization.\n\nAccording to research studies conducted by scientists such as Debby Herbenick and Michael Reece of Indiana University, sex toy representatives are often asked for advice on sexual health, and many have a background working in sex education, health, education, or sexuality. Some romance companies do permit males at their sex toy parties.\n\nA woman was arrested in Texas in December 2003 on obscenity charges for hosting a sex toy party for undercover narcotics officers, but the case was dismissed by the judge in July 2004.\n"}
{"id": "10896157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10896157", "title": "Sindhi poetry", "text": "Sindhi poetry\n\nSindhi poetry () continues an oral tradition dating back a thousand years. The verbal verses were based on folk tales. Sindhi is one of the oldest languages of the Indus Valley having a peculiar literary colour both in poetry and prose. Sindhi poetry is very rich in thought as well as contain variety of genres like other developed languages. Old Sindhi poetry impacts upon contemporary languages and also accepts the healthy influence of some languages like Hindi. Sindhi poetry contains two main original forms of verse, such as bait and Waei. \"Bait\" slightly resembles with form Dohas and Sorthas, moreover also influenced by Persian forms like Ghazal, Mathnavi, Rubai, and Kaafi. Since the 1940s, Sindhi poetry has incorporated broader influences including the sonnet and blank verse. Soon after the independence of Pakistan in 1947, these forms were reinforced by Triolet, Haiku, Renga and Tanka etc. At present, these forms continue to co-exist, albeit in a varying degree, with Azad Nazm having an edge over them all.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21594039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21594039", "title": "Social and Enterprise Development Innovations", "text": "Social and Enterprise Development Innovations\n\nSocial and Enterprise Development Innovations (SEDI)\n\nFounded in 1986, Social and Enterprise Development Innovations (SEDI) is a Canadian nonprofit organization dedicated to helping low-income earners gain financial independence through financial literacy, asset building and entrepreneurship. \n\nTo achieve its goal, SEDI partners with businesses, governments and not-for-profit organizations to find innovative ways to reduce poverty in Canada. SEDI also helps shape Canada’s social policies by conducting market and policy research and acting as a knowledge broker between communities and governments.\n\nSEDI is unique for its economic development innovations which, by being incorporated into public policies, affect Canadians on a large scale.\n\nThe included the creation of a financial literacy task force, a measure recommended by SEDI to the government. The independent, multi-sectoral task force will make recommendations to the minister of finance on a national strategy for financial literacy. With this initiative, Canada will join a growing list of countries including the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia and New Zealand that have developed national strategies to improve the financial literacy of their citizens.\n\nIn November 2008, SEDI launched the Canadian Centre for Financial Literacy, a first of its kind in the country. The Centre seeks to partner with businesses, governments and communities across Canada to achieve its goal of increasing the financial literacy of over 230,000 lower-income Canadians by 2013. According to Statistics Canada, more than 4.7 million Canadians live on a low income.\n\nSEDI’s early work in the area of self-employment was incorporated into Canada’s new Employment Insurance legislation in 1992, making the Self-Employment Benefit available to unemployed people nationwide. From 1993 to 2005, under SEDI management, the Self-Employment Benefit program generated over $172 million in business revenues and 2,000 new jobs in the city of Toronto alone.\n\nSEDI’s Youth Ink program has provided entrepreneurship training to over 250 front-line agents throughout the province of Ontario since March 2006. These agents have offered self-employment workshops to more than 2,000 youth from 50 communities.\n\nThe 3,609 participants in SEDI’s learn$ave pilot program accumulated personal savings of $3.7 million over three years. These savings leveraged over $10 million in matched contributions from the federal government, enabling participants to invest in post-secondary education and job training or start small businesses.\n\nThe 100 participants of the 2005 Independent Living Accounts (ILA) pilot saved over $33,000 in 16 months. The participants’ savings were matched with funds from the private sector, helping them move from shelters into private rental accommodation. In 2008, the program was implemented in six shelters across Toronto and received the Vital Ideas Award from the for its lasting impact on the community.\n\nCommunities across the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Ontario and Nova Scotia are participating in SEDI’s program, which offers e-tools for individuals with disabilities who want to start their own business.\n\nSEDI was founded by Canadian social entrepreneur Peter Nares. In 2008, Nares was awarded an Ashoka Senior Fellowship for his innovative work in socio-economic development in Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9686622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9686622", "title": "Tezozomoc (son of Itzcoatl)", "text": "Tezozomoc (son of Itzcoatl)\n\nTezozomoctzin () was a son of Itzcoatl, the fourth Aztec ruler (\"tlatoani\") of Tenochtitlan. \n\nAlthough Tezozomoctzin never became ruler himself, he was married to Atotoztli, daughter of Moctezuma I (the fifth ruler), and three of his sons — Axayacatl, Tizoc, and Ahuitzotl — would become the sixth, seventh and eighth rulers, respectively. \n\nAlso, his daughter Chalchiuhnenetzin married Moquihuix, ruler of Tlatelolco altepetl.\n"}
{"id": "27358805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27358805", "title": "Thakurai", "text": "Thakurai\n\nThe Thakurai are a Muslim Rajput community found in the state of Bihar in India. A small number are also found in the Terai region of Nepal.\n\nThe Thakurai are said to have originated in Rajasthan, and were converted to Islam during the rule of the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb. They were soldiers in the Mughal army that was sent to pacify Bihar. Their ancestor was a Mahabat Khan, who was a Sisodia Rajput of Mewar, who converted to Islam. They are now found in fifty three villages in Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, East and West Champaran District, and also have a presence in neighbouring Terai region of Nepal. The word Thakurai literally means lord, and originates from the Hindi term Thakur. They speak Bhojpuri, Urdu and Hindi and are Sunni Muslims. The community perceives itself as being Rajput, and their customs are similar to other Muslim Rajputs of the Bihar region, such as the Khanzada of Bhojpur, but there is no intermarriage between the two groups.\n\nThe Thakurai are divided into a number of lineages, the main ones being Bakcha, Bharadwaj, Chauhan, Kuchbaria, Mahdwar, Raza, Hussain,Saif Ali,s/o Nasir Ahmad, and Nafran. They are strictly endogamous, but do not practice clan exogamy. Marriages take place within the close kin group. The community are still largely farmers, and at one time were substantial landowners. They are now undergoing urbanization which is likely to affect group identity.\nThere are fairly influential in north Bihar, and historically dominated Muslim communal politics in this region. They are found mainly in and near the towns of Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Raxaul, Ramgharwa, Sagauli, Adapur, Nakerdehi, and Amudehi.\n\nA small number of Thakurai are also found in the Parsa and Bara districts of Nepal. They form an important sub-group within the larger Nepali Muslim community.\n\n"}
{"id": "3547358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3547358", "title": "Toto people", "text": "Toto people\n\nThe Toto is an isolated tribal group residing only in a small enclave called Totopara in the Alipurduar district of West Bengal, India. Totopara is located at the foot of the Himalayas just to the south of the borderline between Bhutan and West Bengal (on the western bank of Torsa river). Geographically the location is 89° 20'E 26° 50'N.\n\nTotos were nearly becoming extinct in the 1950s, but recent measures to safeguard their areas from being swamped with outsiders have helped preserve their unique heritage and also helped the population grow. The total population of Totos according to 1951 census was 321 living in 69 different houses at Totopara. In 1991 census, the Toto population had increased to 926 who lived in 180 different houses. In the 2001 census, their number had increased to 1184 - all living in Totopara.\n\nAnthropologists agree that the Toto culture and language is totally unique to the tribe, and is clearly distinguished from the neighbouring Rajbongshis, Koch, Mech or the Bhutanese Sharchop tribes.\n\nThe Totos are considered as Mongoloid people, with flat nose, small eye, broad and square cheeks, thick lips and small eyes and black iris. Their complexion is rather on the darker side, which reflects their nearness to the equator. They are generally endogamous and marry within their own tribe. They are generally divided into 13 exogamous clans or groups of families from which they choose to marry. They do not marry anyone related to them through their paternal uncles or maternal aunts.\n\nToto language belongs to Tibeto-Burman family of sub-Himalayan group, as classified by Hodgson and Grierson. They do not have any script. Most of the young members can speak Bengali and Nepali, which are the mediums of instruction in the local schools.\n\nThe area of entire Toto country called Totopara is . It lies 22 km from Madarihat, the entrance of Jaldapara National Park. So, it can be safely assumed that the Totos live near the northern edges of this forest. The Toto localities of the village are sub-divided into six segments - Panchayatgaon, Mandolgaon, Subbagaon, Mitranggaon, Pujagaon and Dumchigaon. Totopara also has a settlement of Nepali-speaking people. A primary school was established in the village in 1990. Later in 1995, a high school with hostel facility was also established there. There is one primary healthcare centre in Totopara.\n\nToto family is patrilocal in nature dominated by nuclear type. However, joint family is not rare. Monogamy is common form of marriage among the Toto but polygamy is not prohibited. If a man's wife dies, he may marry the deceased wife's younger sister, but a woman cannot marry her deceased husband's brother. On the death of a spouse, the husband or wife must remain single for twelve months before he or she is free to remarry. There are various ways of acquiring mates viz., (1) marriage by negotiation (Thulbehoea), (2) marriage by escape (Chor-behoea), (3) marriage by capture (Sambehoea) and (4) love marriage (Lamalami). There is no custom of divorce among the Totos.\n\nThough they make their main food from marua (a kind of millet), the staple food of the Totos now includes rice, chura (parched rice), milk and curd. They also eat meat, generally goat, pork, venison, poultry and fish of all kinds. Women eat the same food as men and there are no restrictions of any kind on the widows.\n\nTotos also drink a fermented liquor called Eu, made from fermented marua, rice powder and malt, which is served warm in Poipa (wooden glasses). Eu is drunk on all occasions.\n\nTotos live in elevated bamboo huts. These are raised on machas (raised platforms), and have straw thatches. There is a single log placed to get to the hut, and this log is meant to be drawn up at night.\n\nThey define themselves as Hindus, but the Totos have two main gods whom they worship:\n\n\nThe Totos have no priests and offer their worship and sacrifices on their own. Ishpa is worshipped in the open outside the house and Cheima inside the house.\n\nOf late, there are a few Christian converts among the tribe, largely attributed to Christian missionary works.\n\nTotos cultivate land. The Totos are not active farmers and hence do not cultivate a particular crop to a great extent. Every home has a kitchen garden surrounded by bamboo fences; in these gardens they grow vegetables, potatoes and bananas, among others. Sometimes they trade with traders from the outside world. Some Totos raise cows and pigs as an occupation.\n\nAt different stages of history, the Toto tribe has been moving away from a subsistence economy to market economy. Further, the transformations of the village from community ownership of land to individual land holding and from isolated tribal group to a multi-ethnic habitat have also taken place in the recent past.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40361639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40361639", "title": "Turkish people in Iran", "text": "Turkish people in Iran\n\nTurkish people in Iran refers to ethnic Turkish people living in Iran.\n\n\n"}
