{"id": "30948735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30948735", "title": "AeroVironment Nano Hummingbird", "text": "AeroVironment Nano Hummingbird\n\nThe AeroVironment Nano Hummingbird or Nano Air Vehicle (NAV) is a tiny, remote controlled aircraft built to resemble and fly like a hummingbird, developed in the United States by AeroVironment, Inc. to specifications provided by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). The Hummingbird is equipped with a small video camera for surveillance and reconnaissance purposes and, for now, operates in the air for up to 11 minutes. It can fly outdoors, or enter a doorway to investigate indoor environments. It was announced to the public on 17 February 2011.\n\nDARPA contributed $4 million to AeroVironment since 2006 to create a prototype \"hummingbird-like\" aircraft for the Nano Air Vehicle (NAV) program. The result was called the \"Nano Hummingbird\" which can fly at and move in three axes of motion. The aircraft can climb and descend vertically; fly sideways left and right; forward and backward; rotate clockwise and counter-clockwise; and hover in mid-air. The artificial hummingbird maneuver using its flapping wings for propulsion and attitude control. It has a body shaped like a real hummingbird, a wingspan of , and a total flying weight of —less than an AA battery. This includes the systems required for flight: batteries, motors, and communications systems; as well as the video camera payload.\n\nDARPA established flight test milestones for the Hummingbird to achieve and the finished prototype met all of them, and even exceeded some of these objectives:\n\nThe device is bigger and heavier than a typical real hummingbird, but is smaller and lighter than the largest hummingbird varieties. It could be deployed to perform reconnaissance and surveillance in urban environments or on battlefields, and might perch on windowsills or power lines, or enter buildings to observe its surroundings, relaying camera views back to its operator. According to DARPA,\nthe Nano Air Vehicle's configuration will \"provide the warfighter with unprecedented capability for urban mission operations.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58162", "title": "Alliance", "text": "Alliance\n\nAn alliance is a relationship among people, groups, or states that have joined together for mutual benefit or to achieve some common purpose, whether or not explicit agreement has been worked out among them. Members of an alliance are called allies. Alliances form in many settings, including political alliances, military alliances, and business alliances. When the term is used in the context of war or armed struggle, such associations may also be called allied powers, especially when discussing World War I or World War II.\n\nA formal military alliance is not required for being perceived as an ally—co-belligerence, fighting alongside someone, is enough. According to this usage, allies become so not when concluding an alliance treaty but when struck by war.\n\nWhen spelled with a capital \"A\", \"Allies\" usually denotes the countries who fought together against the Central Powers in World War I (the Allies of World War I), or those who fought against the Axis Powers in World War II (the Allies of World War II). The term has also been used by the United States Army to describe the countries that gave assistance to South Vietnam during the Vietnam War.\n\nMore recently, the term \"Allied forces\" has also been used to describe the coalition of the Gulf War, as opposed to forces the Multi-National Forces in Iraq which are commonly referred to as \"Coalition forces\" or, as by the George W. Bush administration, \"the coalition of the willing\".\n\nThe Allied Powers in World War I (also known as the Entente Powers) were initially the United Kingdom, France, the Russian Empire, Belgium, Serbia, Montenegro and Japan, joined later by Italy, Portugal, Romania, the United States, Greece and Brazil. Some, such as the Russian Empire, withdrew from the war before the armistice due to revolution or defeat.\n\nScholars are divided as to the impact of alliances. Several studies find that defensive alliances deter conflict. One study questions these findings, showing that alliance commitments deterred conflict in the prenuclear era but has no statistically meaningful impact on war in the postnuclear era. Another study finds that while alliance commitments deter conflict between sides with a recent history of conflict, alliances tend to provoke conflicts between states without such a history.\n\nA 2000 study in the \"Journal of Conflict Resolution\" found that allies fulfill their alliance commitments approximately 75% of the time. Most research suggests that democracies are more reliable allies than non-democracies. A 2004 study did however question whether alliance commitments by democracies are more durable. A 2018 study updated and extended the data from the 2000 \"Journal of Conflict Resolution\" study and found that allies only fulfill their commitments about 50% of the time from 1816 to 2003. According to the study, \"States honored their alliance commitments 66% of the time prior to 1945 but the compliance rate drops to 22% from 1945 to 2003. Moreover, the rates of fulfillment for defense pacts (41%) and nonaggression pacts (37%) are dramatically lower than offensive alliances (74%) and neutrality agreements (78%).\"\n\nAccording to a 2017 poll by WIN/GIA, the United States was the most preferred ally internationally. Russia and China, who preferred one another, both trailed America globally. Four countries, Bulgaria, Greece, Slovenia and Turkey, preferred Russia, despite being members of NATO.\n\nIn Pakistan, 72% of respondents preferred ties to China, the largest margin of any country surveyed, while 46% of Bangladesh preferred India. A total of 22 countries indicated a preference for the United Kingdom at a rate of 10% or more, but the United States was the only country to prefer the Britain over any other, at a rate of 43%. Five counties preferred France at a rate of 10% or more, led by Belgium at a rate of 25%. A single country, Iraq expressed no preference, while three other countries, Lebanon, Palestine, and Slovenia, expressed no preference at a rate of 11% or more, although at a smaller rate than their preference for Russia on the part of Lebanon and Slovenia, and China on the part of Palestine. Kosovo reported the most unified opinion, preferring the United States at a rate of 92%, while Russia's most unified supporters were Mongolia (71%), Armenia (67%) and Serbia (56%). In total, 21 countries expressed a preference for America at a rate of 50% or more. \n<div style=\"font-size: 90%\">\n\n</div style>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30805293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30805293", "title": "Aratius", "text": "Aratius\n\nAratius (, d. 552) was an Armenian military commander of the 6th century whose brother was Nerses. He served at first the Sasanian Empire, then defected to the Byzantine Empire. He is primarily known for his activities in the Iberian War and the Gothic War. He was eventually killed in an ambush. Primary sources about him include Choricius of Gaza and Procopius of Caesarea.\n\nAratius was a native of Persian Armenia. He was a brother of Isaacius (Isaac) and Narses. His brother should not be confused with the famous general Narses. Choricius of Gaza describes Aratius as originating from a good family and having distinguished brothers. He does not identify this family. Modern historians suggest that they could be part of the Kamsarakan family, also ancestral to Narses.\n\nAratius and Narses are first mentioned in 527. They were fighting for the Sassanid Empire in the Iberian War (526-532). The two of them managed to win a victory over the Byzantine commanders Belisarius and Sittas. The battle is briefly described by Procopius: \"And the Romans, under the leadership of Sittas and Belisarius, made an inroad into Persarmenia, a territory subject to the Persians, where they plundered a large tract of country and then withdrew with a great multitude of Armenian captives. These two men were both youths and wearing their first beards, body-guards of the general Justinian, who later shared the empire with his uncle Justin I. But when a second inroad had been made by the Romans into Armenia, Narses and Aratius unexpectedly confronted them and engaged them in battle. These men not long after this came to the Romans as deserters, and made the expedition to Italy with Belisarius; but on the present occasion they joined battle with the forces of Sittas and Belisarius and gained the advantage over them.\"\n\nIn summer 530, Aratius and his brothers Narses deserted to the Byzantine Empire. They transported their mother with them. They were welcomed and rewarded by the eunuch Narses, a fellow Persarmenian. At the time this Narses was not yet a general, but a \"sacellarius\". They were soon joined by Isaacius. Procopius narrates: \"Narses and Aratius who at the beginning of this war, as I have stated above, had an encounter with Sittas and Belisarius in the land of the Persarmenians, came together with their mother as deserters to the Romans; and the emperor's steward, Narses, received them (for he too happened to be a Persarmenian by birth), and he presented them with a large sum of money. When this came to the knowledge of Isaac, their youngest brother, he secretly opened negotiations with the Romans, and delivered over to them the fortress of Bolum, which lies very near the limits of Theodosiopolis. For he directed that soldiers should be concealed somewhere in the vicinity, and he received them into the fort by night, opening stealthily one small gate for them. Thus he too came to Byzantium.\"\n\nAratius resurfaces in 535/536, as \"Dux Palestinae\", when Choricius composed a panegyric for both Aratius and the \"archon\" Stephen, the governor of Palestina. On 1 July 536, Stephanus was promoted to proconsul of Palaestina Prima (First Palestine). The panegyric was composed shortly before this promotion. The text includes mentions of Aratius' activities in the intervening years.\n\nHe is first credited with ending a revolt of religious dissenters in the vicinity of Caesarea. He was then supposedly able to do so without resorting to force. He is then credited as the \"strategos\" (general) responsible for capturing an enemy fortress, which was considered impregnable. Who were the enemy barbarians is left unclear, though they could have been hostile Arabs. He is thirdly mentioned leading a force of about 20 men in opening a pass which was held closed by Arab attacks. Again supposedly without a battle. He is next mentioning restoring Byzantine control over Iotabe (Tiran Island), previously occupied by neighbouring tribesmen. Aratius was finally able to locate the stronghold of these tribesmen on the mainland, attack it and capture it. He is particularly praised for the revenue brought in by Iotabe, through the customs paid there.\n\nChoricius' flattering description features Aratius as an able man, merciful in administering justice and honest in financial matters.\n\nProcopius next mentions Aratius in 538. He was sent to the Gothic War in the Italian Peninsula, leading a group of reinforcements for Belisarius. His title at the time is not recorded. He might have been a \"magister militum\" or a \"comes rei militaris\". He probably arrived in the spring or summer of the year. He was reportedly ordered by Belisarius to set his camp near Auximum with 1,000 men. The town was a stronghold of the Ostrogoths and Aratius' mission was to keep watch over their activities.\n\nAratius spent the winter of 538-539 at Firmum, continuing his watch over nearby Auximum. He took part in the siege of Auximum in 539. He and his brother Narses were leading a force of Armenians during said siege. In 540, Aratius, his brother Narses, Bessas, and John fell out of favour with Belisarius and sent away from Ravenna. Belisarius and the eunuch Narses rivaled each other at the time. Belisarius, who chose Ravenna for his seat, suspected them of serving his rival. Belisarius was soon recalled from Italy. Aratius presumably continued fighting the Gothic War, but his activities over the following decade are mostly unrecorded.\n\nHis next prominent action was in 549. Aratius, Bouzes, Constantianus and John were tasked with leading a force of 10,000 cavalryman on a mission. They were to assist the Lombards in their conflict with the Gepids. This campaign was short-lived as the two opponents concluded a peace treaty, making the presence of Byzantine forces unnecessary.\n\nIn early 551, Aratius was one of the military commanders sent to face the South Slavs who were plundering the Balkans. Scholasticus was the overall leader of the campaign. The Byzantine forces suffered a major defeat in the vicinity of Adrianople. But later regrouped and won a victory. Their opponents departed the area. Later that year, Aratius is again mentioned as strategos. The Cutrigur Huns had invaded Byzantine territories, acting as agents of the Gepids. Justinian I sent Aratius to negotiate their retreat. The Byzantines informed them that the Cutrigur homeland had in turn been invaded by the Utigurs.\n\nIn 552, Aratius, Amalafrid, Justin, Justinian and Suartuas were sent on a new mission to the Lombards. They were to assist them against the Gepids. Amalafridas continued on the mission. But the rest were soon recalled by the emperor. Religious strife had broken out in Ulpiana and they were needed to restore order.\n\nThe Gothic War was still ongoing. In 552, Ildigisal and Goar invaded the Praetorian prefecture of Illyricum. Aratius, Arimuth, Leonianus and Rhecithangus were tasked with stopping them. All four commanders were ambushed while drinking at a river. They were easily killed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2139162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139162", "title": "Association of Philippine Electric Cooperatives", "text": "Association of Philippine Electric Cooperatives\n\nThe Association of Philippine Electric Cooperatives, also APEC is a political party in the Philippines. Sunny Rose Madamba, Ernesto Pablo, and Edgar Valdez are the party's three representatives in the House of Representatives. In the 14 May 2007 election, the party won 2 seats in the nationwide party-list vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "35227621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35227621", "title": "Australasian Hydrographic Society", "text": "Australasian Hydrographic Society\n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society (AHS) is a professional hydrographic organisation covering Australasia, the South West Pacific and South East Asia. It brings together practitioners and representatives of industry in the region, particularly those involved in maritime and port services, undersea exploration, offshore oil and gas projects and associated infrastructure. Because these sectors are closely linked to rapid growth in economic development and trade in the region, it is expected hydrography will have an increasingly important role in the future development of the economy.\n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society was originally part of The Hydrographic Society (THS), founded in 1972. It was one of five autonomous national branches, Australasia, the Benelux countries, Denmark, the UK and the USA. By 2000 it apparent that this structure was no longer workable and a decision was made to form national bodies, which would constitute a new international organisation, the International Federation of Hydrographic Societies (IFHS)]. Subsequently the Australasian Hydrographic Society was incorporated on 5 August 2002 and is now a registered a not-for-profit Public Company with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.\n\nHydrography is essential for many economic, recreational and tourism activities. In particular the development of offshore projects in the oil and gas industries, particularly off the north west coast of Western Australia and coal export facilities in Queensland have required a considerable increase in the provision of accurate and up to date hydrographic information. The attendant increase in trade, for example, has made improved navigation through sensitive area, such as the Great Barrier Reef critical. Hydrography also plays an important role in national security, border protection and humanitarian support. \n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society endeavours to represent all interests in these domains. The Australasian Hydrographic Society consequently \"aims to serve anyone with an interest in the science (and art)\" of hydrography, \"the influence of which makes it the great common denominator for maritime nations\". \n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society has four regions, the East Australia Region, the West Australia Region, the New Zealand Region, AOTM [Australia on the Map]] Division and a South West Pacific Region. Each region is geographically based, except for the Australia on the Map Division which has a transnational focus on hydrographic history and heritage.\n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society has a Council made up of elected officer-bearers (President, Secretary, Treasurer) and representatives from each of the regions. The Council is responsible for the governance of the organisation.\n\nThe Patron of the Australasian Hydrographic Society is Vice Admiral Chris Ritchie AO RANR. The Australasian Hydrographic Society is a member of the International Federation of Hydrographic Societies.\n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society regions engage in a wide range of activities. These include technical meetings, seminars, symposia, preparation of reports, social gatherings, educational initiatives and awareness-raising. The Society is also actively engaged in the development of international standards and protocols in hydrography, hydrographic surveying and technical specifications.\n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society has an online presence through its website. The New Zealand Region and Australia on the Map Division also maintain separate websites.\n\nThe New Zealand Region previously issued a newsletter, \"The Boustrophedon\", and the Australia on the Map Division currently produces an electronic newsletter, \"Map Matters\".\n\nDivisions may from time to time produce specialist publications. The Australia on the Map Division, for example, recently published the proceedings of a symposium, \"The Freycinet Map of 1811\".\n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society actively participates in the International Federation of Hydrographic Societies and has hosted that organisation's annual international conference on three occasions, Hydro 2003 (Christchurch, New Zealand), Hydro 2007 (Cairns, Australia) and Hydro 2011 (Fremantle, Australia).\n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society provides an annual Education Award for students studying in a range of hydrographic and hydrography related disciplines.\n\nThe Australasian Hydrographic Society Awards, awarded annually, recognises the merit, contribution and achievement made by individuals, groups and corporate bodies in a range of categories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13022977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13022977", "title": "Chief Military Prosecutor Office", "text": "Chief Military Prosecutor Office\n\nChief Military Prosecutor Office () is the highest organizational unit in Poland's military's attorney's office. It's directed by Chief Military Prosecutor (\"Naczelny Prokurator Wojskowy\"). The office was created in 1919. Current Chief Military Prosecutor is Tomasz Szałek.\n"}
{"id": "528653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528653", "title": "Christian Peoples Alliance", "text": "Christian Peoples Alliance\n\nThe Christian Peoples Alliance, CPA is a Christian democratic political party in the United Kingdom. The party was founded in its present form in 1999, having grown out of a cross-party advocacy group called the Movement for Christian Democracy. The first leader of the party was Ram Gidoomal. Alan Craig took over from him in 2004 and resigned in 2012. He was replaced by Sidney Cordle who is the current leader.\n\nThe roots of the party can be traced back to a movement founded in 1991 by Christians — both Protestants and Catholics — known as the Movement for Christian Democracy (MCD). It was founded in Westminster at a rally which drew an attendance of 2,000 people, with the motivation of providing an answer to increasing secularism. The three founding members were David Alton, Derek Enright and Ken Hargreaves, who were Members of Parliament representing the Liberal, Labour and Conservative parties respectively. While the tradition of Christian democracy parties was well established in many other parts of Europe, it was not introduced into Britain until the MCD movement of the 1990s. The movement existed as a cross-party advocacy group of sorts and although there were rumours in the media of it becoming a fully fledged political party it never materialised.\n\nHowever, out of the movement its chairman, Dr Alan Storkey, and vice-chairman, David Campanale, led an internal consultation of MCD members that led to the formation of the Christian Peoples Alliance by leading MCD activists in 1999. Elements of proportional representation at local government level, brought about after the devolution of the Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly, saw the party gain confidence. By 2000, Ram Gidoomal had become leader of the party, a businessman and banker who had been appointed a CBE. He had converted to Christianity from Hinduism and is a Briton of Asian background. Gidoomal stood for election for the London mayoral election, 2000. Gaining 98,549 votes at the first attempt, the party surprised some, finishing fifth, ahead of the Greens in first preference votes. The campaign was committed to winning more jobs for Londoners, leading to \"The Times\" claiming, based on multiple choice results from a website run by \"New Statesman\": \"if Londoners elected a mayor purely on how his or her policies match the electors' views [...] the winner would be Ram Gidoomal\". In November 2000, a candidate supported by the Christian Peoples Alliance stood at the Preston by-election, finishing seventh.\n\nFollowing on from this, the party continued its activities, mostly in London in such as fairly deprived working class areas like Canning Town in the London Borough of Newham. The Mayflower Declaration laid out the party's values and policies. It was at Canning Town in 2002 that Alan Craig became the first Christian Democrat elected in Britain, as a member of the local Newham council. The party voiced its opposition to the prospect of the Iraq War, deeming it \"illegal, unwise and immoral\" — a position by which it has stood. After the London mayoral election, 2004, Gidoomal stepped down as party leader to be succeeded by Craig. The party stood members for the 2005 general election with little success, yet a \"blind candidating\" contest run by BBC's \"Newsnight\" programme placed the party manifesto policies second. The party had more success in 2006, gaining two more council seats in Canning Town. In the following year, the party had two members elected at parish council level for Aston cum Aughton in the Metropolitan Borough of Rotherham.\n\nIn the same year, it also gained encouragement from Scottish Catholic bishops Keith O'Brien and Philip Tartaglia for its social stances, including marriage, rights for unborn children and supporting the Church in the adoption debate. The party also defended the Anglican bishop Michael Nazir-Ali after comments made in the media regarding Islam. The CPA campaigned against the building of Abbey Mills Mosque in West Ham, planned by an alleged radical sect, the party stated it was an \"unwanted landmark\" and would undermine community cohesion. More than 255,000 British people supported the stance in a petition on the Downing Street website. As part of a party pact with the Christian Party, Craig stood for the London mayoral election in 2008 as \"The Christian Choice\", gaining almost 3% of the vote. This was followed with 249,493 votes at the European Parliament election 2009, 1.6% of the total.\n\nCraig resigned as leader in October 2012 and later joined the UK Independence Party.\n\nAnnual accounts submitted to the Electoral Commission show an income of £11,000 for 2013.\n\nSince 2007, the party has been affiliated to the European Christian Political Movement, an association of Christian Democrat parties, think tanks and politicians across Europe.\n\nThe party has campaigned on a range of issues, winning success in 2000 when it organised a petition against government plans to require Asian visitors to the UK to place a £10,000 'bond'. In 2000 and 2004 in London, it put inner-city regeneration and fighting discrimination as its top policy priorities. Its policies to cut energy-use and road congestion through a motorway coach-network won acceptance at government level. Its policies in support of marriage and church schools have become popular currency among secular parties.\nThe CPA has also opposed the reclassification of cannabis, When Craig became leader he introduced policies in favour of linking Christianity to the European Union Constitution, building more church schools and supporting traditional Christian morality. He also has led campaigns backing the UNISON steward at Newham Council who faced disciplinary action; against plans to build London's large casino in Newham, against the Excel Arms Fair; against what he claims are Labour's plans to move local families out of Canning Town in support of yuppie housing. Craig has also campaigned against proposals to demolish parts of Queen Street Market in favour of \"non-invasive refurbishment\" environment.\n\nThe CPA has contested local authority elections at parish, borough, city and county level in London, Glasgow, Sheffield, Leeds, Rotherham, Middlesbrough, Ipswich, Gloucester, Northampton and Suffolk. Since Cordle became leader, the party has focused more on putting up candidates in national elections and developing a comprehensive manifesto covering all issues of concern.. The party fought three regions in the 2014 European Parliament elections and they had 17 candidates in the 2015 General Election and 31 in the 2017 one, a record number for the party.\n\nThe party took a leading role in the campaign against the Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013 with its leader Sid Cordle speaking at a rally in Trafalgar Square. While the debates were taking place he spoke at a rally outside Westminster.\n\nIn May 2014, during the EU elections, under questioning from Andrew Neil on the BBC \"Daily Politics\" programme Cordle said that it was possible that recent storms in the UK could have been caused by God, saying, \"I think all Christians believe that God does, and can do, things with nature. A lot of Christians believe God is angry over 'gay marriage' and God can show that anger if he wants to.\"\n\nIn May 2017, on the \"Daily Politics\" show, Cordle was accused of 'embarrassing' himself and described as a 'bigot' by journalist Owen Jones after claiming that marriage's sole purpose was the procreation of children. Presenter Jo Coburn was forced to ask Cordle to allow Jones to speak on several occasions, however Cordle accused Jones of being 'insulting' and claimed Coburn's reluctance to allow him to respond to Jones as being 'fake news'.\n\nThe Christian Peoples Alliance rejects class struggle doctrine and supports a mixed market economy, with an emphasis on the community, social solidarity, support for social welfare provision and some regulation of market forces. The central theme being social justice, responsible charity and an emphasis on \"people before profit\". Within the Mayflower Declaration the party sets out as goals and desires; providing resources to discourage economic dependency and promote gainful employment. A holistic approach to care, which moves beyond mere financial assistance, as well as help for those in danger of being pushed to the margins of society, like the homeless and disabled. The Mayflower Declaration was updated and reprinted in early 2013 just after Cordle became leader. It now has a new introduction and at the back the policy on Europe was changed from support for the EU to \"While we are members of the European Union to work with fellow Christians to seek to bring about moral and democratic reform.\" It subsequently went further and in its 2014 European manifesto said it wanted a referendum on the EU and that if a referendum was held it would support leaving the EU.\n\nThe party has never won a seat as a Member of Parliament. However, it has won some local government council elections. In Newham London Borough Council, Alan Craig was a councillor (2002-2010), as were Simeon Ademolake (2006–2010) and Denise Stafford (2006–2010). Paul Martin and David Gee were elected to Aston-cum-Aughton Parish Council (2007–2009).\n\nThirty-one candidates stood for the CPA in the General Election 2017. The party also contested by-elections in 2017 and in 2018.\n\nThe party has consistently contested elections to the London Assembly but failed to gain any seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "25786928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25786928", "title": "Communicating vessels", "text": "Communicating vessels\n\nCommunicating vessels is a name given to a set of containers containing a homogeneous fluid, connected at the base and subjected to the same atmospheric pressure. When the liquid settles, it balances out to the same level in all of the containers regardless of their shape and volume. If additional liquid is added to one vessel, the liquid will again find a new equal level in all the connected vessels. This process is part of Stevin's Law and occurs because gravity and pressure are constant in each vessel (hydrostatic pressure).\n\nBlaise Pascal proved in the seventeenth century that the pressure exerted on a molecule of a liquid is transmitted in full and with the same intensity in all directions.\n\nSince the days of ancient Rome, the concept of communicating vessels has been used for indoor plumbing, via aquifers and lead pipes. Water will reach the same level in all parts of the system, which acts as communicating vessels, regardless of what the lowest point is of the pipes – although in practical terms the lowest point of the system depends on the ability of the plumbing to withstand the pressure of the liquid. In cities, water towers are frequently used so that city plumbing will function as communicating vessels, distributing water to higher floors of buildings with sufficient pressure.\n\nHydraulic presses, using systems of communicating vessels, are widely used in various applications of industrial processes.\n\n"}
{"id": "10900485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10900485", "title": "Counting agent", "text": "Counting agent\n\nA counting agent is appointed by either the candidate standing for election or the candidate's election agent to oversee the counting at the election count. In the United Kingdom there is no legal requirement to appoint a counting officer. At elections in the Republic of Ireland, counting agents are called tallymen; they keep track not only of first-preference votes but also of transfers.\n\nThe number of counting agents which can be appointed is determined by the returning officer of the election and is usually dependent on the number of counting clerks at the count. Counting agents are appointed after the period when nominations to the election are made. The election timetable will state when counting agents have to be appointed, typically a week before polling day.\n\nThe role of the counting agent is to oversee the count itself, though they may not touch any of the ballot papers and must act through the returning officer.\n\nDuring counts, generally only the candidate, the candidate's partner and the candidate's counting agents may enter the place where counting takes place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1412125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1412125", "title": "Dancing pigs", "text": "Dancing pigs\n\nIn computer security, the \"dancing pigs\" is a term or problem that describes computer users' attitudes to computer security. It states that users will continue to pick an amusing graphic even if they receive a warning from security software that it is potentially dangerous. In other words, users choose their primary desire features without considering the security. \"Dancing pigs\" is generally used by tech experts and can be found in IT articles.\n\nThe term has its origin in a remark by Edward Felten and Gary McGraw:\nBruce Schneier states:\nBruce Schneier expands on this remark as follows:\nThe Mozilla Security Reviewers' Guide states:\nA widely publicized 2009 paper directly addresses the dancing pigs quotation and argues that users' behavior is plausibly rational:\nOne study of phishing found that people really do prefer dancing animals to security. The study showed participants a number of phishing sites, including one that copied the Bank of the West home page:\nSchneier believes the dancing pigs problem will lead to crime, a key threat. He said: \"The tactics might change (...) as security measures make some tactics harder and others easier, but the underlying issue is constant.\" Ignoring computer security can inflict various types of damage resulting in significant losses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1285569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1285569", "title": "De-escalation", "text": "De-escalation\n\nDe-escalation refers to behavior that is intended to escape escalations of conflicts. It may also refer to approaches in conflict resolution. Escalations of commitment are often hard from spiraling out of proportions without specific measures being taken.\n\nDe-escalation is aimed at calmly communicating with an agitated client in order to understand, manage and resolve their concerns. Ultimately, these actions should help reduce the client’s agitation and potential for future aggression or violence. An inadequate intervention, or one occurring too late, may leave staff needing to utilize coercive measures to manage an aggressive or violent client. Coercive measures, such as chemical or mechanical restraints and seclusion, are damaging to the therapeutic relationship and harmful to clients and staff. \n\nDespite the importance of de-escalation in promoting a non-coercive psychiatric environment, a review of the literature conducted by Mavandadi, Bieling and Madsen (2016) identified only 19 articles that defined or provided a model of de-escalation. Articles converge on a number of themes (i.e. de-escalation should involve safely, calmly and empathetically supporting the client with their concerns). Hankin et al.’s (2011) review of four de-escalation studies reflected the somewhat unclear state of de-escalation research. Their review settled on eight goals, seven elements, 15 general techniques and 15 other techniques divided into three subheadings. Furthermore, a valiant attempt to synthesize the various models and definitions was conducted by Price & Baker (2012). Thematic analysis of 11 eligible studies converged on seven themes: three related to staff skills (e.g. empathetic concern, calm appearance and gentle tone of voice) and four related to the process of intervening (e.g. establish rapport, maintain safety, problem solve and set limits). The available literature provides clinical descriptions of effective de-escalation based on qualitative data and professional observations. However, these thematic analyses need to be supported by more objective data; one hallmark of such objectivity would be an empirical scale or quantitative measure of de-escalation.\n\n1. Valuing the client: Provides genuine acknowledgement that the client’s concerns are valid, important and will be addressed in a meaningful way.\n\n2. Reducing fear: Listens actively to the client and offers genuine empathy while suggesting that the client’s situation has the potential for positive future change.\n\n3. Inquiring about client’s queries and anxiety: Can communicate a thorough understanding of the client’s concerns, and works to uncover\nthe root of the issue.\n\n4. Providing guidance to the client: Suggests multiple ways to the help the client with their current concerns and recommends preventative measures.\n\n5. Working out possible agreements: Takes responsibility for the client’s care and concludes the encounter with an agreed-upon short-term solution and a long-term action plan.\n\n6. Remaining calm: Maintains a calm tone of voice and steady pace that is appropriate to the client’s feelings and behaviour.\n\n7. Risky: Maintains a moderate distance from the client to ensure safety, but does not appear guarded and fearful.\n\nSee: \nMavandadi, V.; Bieling, P. J.; Madsen, V. (2016-08-01). \"Effective ingredients of verbal de-escalation: validating an English modified version of the 'De-Escalating Aggressive Behaviour Scale'\". Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing. 23 (6-7): 357–368. doi:10.1111/jpm.12310. ISSN 1365-2850\n\nStarting around 2015, after facing criticism after numerous high-profile killings of civilians by police officers, some police forces in the US adopted de-escalation training, designed to reduce the risk of confrontations turning violent or deadly for anyone involved.\n\nThe FIRST STEP Act prison reform bill mandates de-escalation training, especially for \"incidents that involve the unique needs of individuals who have a mental illness or cognitive deficit.\"\n\nThis often involves techniques such as taking a time-out, and deflecting the conversation to individuals in the group who are less passionately involved. This is commonly used by Fee Team in mental health nursing practice. It is also used as an anger management tool to remove tension between two participants in a conflictual relationship or intervention.\n\n"}
{"id": "5728789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5728789", "title": "Donatário", "text": "Donatário\n\nA (Portuguese for \"donated\" or \"endowed [one]\"), sometimes anglicized as donatary, was a private person—often a noble—who was granted a considerable piece of land (a ') by the Kingdom of Portugal. The king exempted these titleholders from normal colonial administration; the donatários were comparable to a royal governor or a British Lord Proprietor. As the \"donataria\" were often captaincies, the position is also translated as captain.\n\nNormally, the \"donatário\" was the recipient of a captaincy, a territorial division and land grant, within Portuguese colonies. It was an effective administrative system that ceded certain rights and responsibilities to the \"donatário\", facilitating the settlement of unpopulated places with little cost to the Crown.\n\nThe \"donatário\" was obligated to govern his territories under specific terms: in exchange for the grant, he received tax immunity, but was also responsible for promoting and settling new residents to his territory, establishing churches (following the Catholic faith), protecting them from frequent pirate attacks, and promoting agriculture and commerce. While the donatário assumed expenses of the settlement and economic development, he also benefited from various judicial and fiscal privileges, while the King maintained certain unalienable rights to safeguard the territorial and political unity of the Kingdom. Except for private land grants, the territory administrated by the donatário was turned over to settlers and the bestowed was responsible for all the expenses of the Captaincy.\n\nAlmost dictatorial in their powers, the \"donatários\" were limited by the difficulties of the territories they governed. With the Brazilian territories, which were large, the donatários' obligations covered the governorship, expansion and settlement of the territory, necessitating a large labour force, security forces and administrators. Many of the new settlers were criminals, opportunists or political exiles who arrived in these territories to make their fortunes (commercially or politically). At the same time, the donatário promoted the faith by receiving and assisting the Catholic missionaries that trekked across the Portuguese Empire.\n\nAfter their discovery, the islands of the Azores were bestowed by the Crown of Portugal to Prince Henry the Navigator, son of King João I, who in turn donated them to the Order of Christ, of which he was master. The order of succession remained in the hands of the Dukes of Viseu and progressed as follows:\n\n\nThe Dukes were the direct line to the Crown, paying vassalage as serfs to the Kings of Portugal. When Manuel, 5th Duke of Viseu, ascended the throne as King Manuel I of Portugal (1495), he incorporated the donatary privileges of the seven islands of the Azores (Corvo and Flores were not included) into the properties and possessions of the Crown.\n\nThe donatary system was bestowed upon Henry the Navigator at an unknown time, but his order to introduce livestock (goats, cattle, pigs, etc.) on the islands suggests that he would have received jurisdiction between 1432 and 1438. This was the same period as the death of King Duarte, and his successor King Afonso V exempted fees and taxes for five years at his request, suggesting Henry's compliance with the duties of a \"donatário\". Yet it was only in his last will and testament that it was explicitly stated that he was protector of the Azores. The transfer of this title to his nephew the Infante Ferdinand, was in keeping with the \"Lei Mental\" proclaimed by his brother in 1434, that bound Henry to pass on all lands and goods from the King to legitimate male descendants. If not, then the Crown would regain ownership.\n\nThe \"donatário\" was expected to promote the settlement of the territory. Consequently, the hierarchical model that developed was an extension of this process. In order to govern the islands, Henry as \"donatário\" nominated men of confidence, \"capitães do donatário\" (\"Captains of the Donatary\"), to administer their territories locally. This three-tier system worked effectively: King, \"donatário\", and captains allowed the administration of overseas territories without direct intervention of the Crown.\n\nYet the Crown oscillated between total neglect and strong vigilance; between the 15th-18th centuries the monarchy did not really know how to manage its territories. King Manuel I of Portugal, for his part, was a micro-manager and was involved in judicial affairs and exercised his duties as lord of the islands. This led to the creation of monarchial posts to directly influence control, such as the Corregedor, the \"Provedoria das Armadas\" (\"Office of the Purveyor of Armadas\"), 1527, and the \"Feitorias\" (\"Customs Offices\") of Angra and Ponta Delgada, in 1561. These new posts showed the importance of the Crown's representatives in the regions over their control, and men like Cipriano de Figueiredo e Vasconcelos (Corregador of Terceira) would play important roles in coexistence between local and national administration.\n\nAfter the 16th century the figure of the donatary captain lost its effective governorship in most of the islands of the Azores, with the exception of São Miguel, which was transformed into an honorific post, conferred by the King to people and noble families who he wished to honour. It was through this system that the majority of donatary captaincies fell into the hands of the high nobility of Portugal, who never lived on the islands or had little economic interest in their development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31574850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31574850", "title": "Eastern European anti-Communist insurgencies", "text": "Eastern European anti-Communist insurgencies\n\nThe Central and Eastern European anti-Communist insurgencies fought on after the official end of the Second World War against the Soviet Union and the communist states formed under Soviet occupation and support.\n\nProminent movements include:\n\nThe 'cursed soldiers' (Polish: Żołnierze wyklęci) is a name applied to a variety of Polish resistance movements that were formed in the later stages of World War II and afterward. Created by former members of the Polish underground resistance organizations of World War II, these organizations continued the struggle against the pro-Soviet government of Poland well into the 1950s.\n\nMost of these anti-communist groups ceased operations in the late 1940s or 1950s. However, the last known 'cursed soldier', Józef Franczak, was killed in an ambush as late as 1963, almost 20 years after the Soviet take-over of Poland.\n\nThe Forest Brothers (also: Brothers of the Forest, Forest Brethren; Forest Brotherhood; Estonian: metsavennad, Latvian: meža brāļi, Lithuanian: miško broliai) were Estonian, Latvian, and Lithuanian partisans who waged guerrilla warfare against Soviet rule during the Soviet invasion and occupation of the three Baltic states during, and after, World War II. \nThe Soviet Army occupied the independent Baltic states in 1940–1941 and, after a period of German occupation, again in 1944–1945. As Stalinist repression intensified over the following years, 50,000 residents of these countries used the heavily forested countryside as a natural refuge and base for armed anti-Soviet resistance.\n\nResistance units varied in size and composition, ranging from individually operating guerrillas, armed primarily for self-defense, to large and well-organized groups able to engage significant Soviet forces in battle.\n\nAn armed resistance movement against the communist regime in Romania was active from the late 40s to the mid-50s, with isolated individual fighters remaining at large until the early 1960s. The groups were concentrated in the Carpathian Mountains, although a resistance movement had also developed in Northern Dobruja. Armed resistance was the most structured form of resistance against the communist regime. After the overthrow of Nicolae Ceauşescu in 1989, the details about what was called “anti-communist armed resistance” were made public, thanks to the discretization of the Securitate archives.\n\n"}
{"id": "20395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20395", "title": "Foreign relations of Myanmar", "text": "Foreign relations of Myanmar\n\nHistorically strained, Myanmar's foreign relations, particularly with Western nations, have improved since 2012. Relations became strained once more in 2017 with the Rohingya crisis. Myanmar (also known as Burma) has generally maintained warmer relations with neighbouring states and is a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.\n\nThe United States has placed broad sanctions on Burma because of the military crackdown in 1988 and the military regime's refusal to honour the election results of the 1990 People's Assembly election. Similarly, the European Union has placed embargoes on Burma, including an arms embargo, cessation of trade preferences, and suspension of all aid with the exception of humanitarian aid.\n\nUS and European government sanctions against the military government, alongside boycotts and other types of direct pressure on corporations by western supporters of the Burmese democracy movement, have resulted in the withdrawal from Burma of most US and many European companies. However, several Western companies remain due to loopholes in the sanctions. Asian corporations have generally remained willing to continue investing in Burma and to initiate new investments, particularly in natural resource extraction.\n\nThe French oil company Total S.A. is able to operate the Yadana natural gas pipeline from Burma to Thailand despite the European Union's sanctions on Burma. Total is currently the subject of a lawsuit in French and Belgian courts for the condoning and use of Burman civilian slavery to construct the named pipeline. Experts say that the human rights abuses along the gas pipeline are the direct responsibility of Total S.A. and its American partner Chevron Corporation with aid and implementation by the Tatmadaw. Prior to its acquisition by Chevron, Unocal settled a similar human rights lawsuit for a reported multimillion-dollar amount. There remains active debate as to the extent to which the American-led sanctions have had adverse effects on the civilian population or on the military rulers.\n\nBoth countries established diplomatic relations on 31 January 2013.\n\nBurma is represented in Denmark through its embassy in the United Kingdom, and Denmark is represented in Burma through its embassy in Thailand. Diplomatic relations were established in 1955. Relations between the two countries are friendly, but economically, Denmark has the \"worst\" trade with Burma in the European Union. Denmark also supports the Norwegian based radio station, Democratic Voice of Burma.\n\nDevelopment assistance to Burma is a top priority of the Danish International Development Agency's engagement in Southeast Asia. 93 million DKK was given to education and healthcare projects.\n\nDanish development assistance has focused on promoting democracy and human rights. Denmark was one of the first countries to respond to cyclone Nargis by providing humanitarian assistance to Burma. Three Diseases Fund was founded in 2006, and Denmark joined in 2009. Three Diseases Fund helps Burma fight HIV and AIDS, and has assisted with 73 million dollars.\n\nIn 1996, the consul in Burma for Denmark, James Leander Nichols, was sentenced to three years in jail. The sentence was for illegal possession of two facsimile machines and a telephone switchboard. Two months later, he died in prison. Despite Danish insistence, Burmese authorities refused to allow an independent autopsy. Soon after, the European Union, with Canada, called for a United Nations gathering on the democratisation process.\n\nOn 3 November 2010, students from 140 different gymnasiums in Denmark and DanChurchAid, participated in the annual Day's Work Day. The money earned by the students goes to improve education for young people in Burma.\n\nThe Government of Ireland established diplomatic relations with Burma on a non-resident basis on 10 February 2004. The Irish Government was still concerned about the arbitrary detention of the opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Burma Action Ireland is a pro-democracy group that freely operates in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nIreland supported a UN commission of inquiry and international level monitoring of Burma after 2008, as part of their efforts to support democracy and human rights movements in Burma. This became public knowledge after official papers were leaked in September 2010.\n\nFranco-Burmese relations go back to the early 18th century, as the French East India Company attempted to extend its influence into Southeast Asia. French involvement started in 1729 when it built a shipyard in the city of Syriam. The 1740 revolt of the Mon against Burmese rule, however, forced the French to depart in 1742. They were able to return to Siam in 1751 when the Mon requested French assistance against the Burmese. A French envoy, Sieur de Bruno was sent to evaluate the situation and help in the defence against the Burmese. French warships were sent to support the Mon rebellion, but in vain. In 1756, the Burmese under Alaungpaya vanquished the Mon. Many French were captured and incorporated into the Burmese Army as an elite gunner corps, under Chevalier Milard. In 1769, official contacts resumed when a trade treaty was signed between King Hsinbyushin and the French East India Company.\n\nSoon after, however, France was convulsed by the French Revolution and Napoleonic Wars, thus allowing overwhelming British influence in Burma. French contacts with Burma, effectively a British colony, became almost non-existent. Instead, from the second half of the 19th century, France concentrated on the establishment of French Indochina and the conflicts with China leading to the Sino-French War. Following the end of World War II, ambassador-level diplomatic relationships between France and Burma were established in 1948, soon after the Burmese nation became an independent republic on 4 January 1948, as \"Union of Burma\", with Sao Shwe Thaik as its first President and U Nu as its first Prime Minister.\n\n\nThe political relations between the United States of America and Burma began to face major problems following the 1988 military coup and the junta's outbursts of repression against pro-democracy activists. Subsequent repression, including that of protestors in September 2007, further strained the relationship. However, following signs of democratisation and economic liberalisation, Hillary Clinton, as Secretary of State, and others called for the mending of America's relations with Burma in 2011. As a result of the refurbishment of ties, the American authorities in 2012 planned for the re-establishment of ambassador-level relations with Burma for the first time since 1990.\n\nMassachusetts, as a US state, attempted to place sanctions against Burma on its own in 1996 but the concept proved to be contradictory to the US Constitution. Later, the United States federal government imposed broad sanctions against Burma under several different legislative and policy vehicles. The Burma Freedom and Democracy Act (BFDA), passed by both the US Senate and their House of Representatives and signed by then President George W. Bush in 2003, imposed a ban on all imports from Burma, a ban on the export of financial services to Burma, a freeze on the assets of certain Burmese financial institutions, alongside further visa restrictions against Burmese officials. American legislators then renewed the BFDA on an almost annual basis, most recently in July 2010.\nSince 27 September 2007, the US Department of Treasury froze assets of 25 high-ranking officials Burmese government officials as it was authorised to do so by Executive Order 13310. On 19 October 2007, President George W. Bush imposed a new Executive Order (E.O. 13448) authorising the freezing of assets against individuals who stand accused by the Government of the United States of being party to human rights violations and acts of public corruption, as well as against those who provide material and financial support to the military junta.\n\nIn addition, since May 1997, the US Government prohibited new investment by American people and other entities. A number of American companies exited the Burma market prior to the imposition of sanctions due to a worsening business climate and mounting criticism from human rights groups, consumers, and shareholders. The United States has also imposed countermeasures on Burma due to its inadequate measures to eliminate money laundering.\n\nDue to its particularly severe violations of religious freedom, the United States has designated Burma a Country of Particular Concern (CPC) under the International Religious Freedom Act. Burma is also designated a Tier 3 Country in the Trafficking in Persons Report for utilising forced labour, and is subject to additional sanctions as a result. The political relationship between the United States and Burma worsened after the 1988 military coup and violent suppression of pro-democracy demonstrations. Subsequent repression, including the brutal crackdown on peaceful protestors in September 2007, further strained relations.\n\nThe United States lowered its level of representation in Burma from Ambassador to Chargé d'Affaires after the government's major outbreaks against opposition groups and protesters in 1988 and its alleged failure to honour the results of the 1990 parliamentary election, although it upgraded back on 13 January 2012, appointing Derek Mitchel as Ambassador and head of mission\n\nUS Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, visited Burma in November–December 2011. In this visit, the first by a Secretary of State since 1955, Hillary met with the President of Burma, Thein Sein, in the official capital Naypyidaw, and later met with democracy activist Aung San Suu Kyi in Yangon. The US announced a reduction of laws against providing aid to Burma and raised the possibility of an exchange of ambassadors.\n\nOn 13 January 2012, the US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton announced the US will exchange ambassadors with Burma, after a landmark Burmese political prisoner amnesty.\n\nOn Thursday, 17 May 2012, the White House Press Office announced that President Barack Obama of the US Democratic Party had nominated Derek Mitchell to the US Senate for confirmation to serve as US Ambassador to Burma. After being approved by the US Senate in late June, Derek Mitchell, the first U.S ambassador to Myanmar in 22 years formally assumed his job on 11 July 2012 by presenting his credentials to President Thein Sein at the presidential mansion in the capital Naypyitaw.\n\nIn July 2012 the United States formally reduced sanctions against Burma. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton announced plans in the spring of 2012 for a “targeted easing” of sanctions to allow minor US investment in the country, but companies could not move ahead until the sanctions were formally suspended. In July 2012, President Obama ordered the US State Department to issue two special licences, one providing special authorisation to invest in Burma and the other authorising to provide financial services in Burma. Although plans to lift investment restrictions were announced in May 2012, the change awaited what administration officials labelled 'detailed reporting requirements' on US companies doing business in Burma, alongside the creation of mechanisms to prevent US economic ties to the powerful Burmese military and individuals and companies involved in human rights abuses. President Obama also issued an executive order expanding existing sanctions against individuals who violate human rights to include those who threaten Burma’s political restructuring process.\n\nPresident Obama created a new power for the US government to impose “blocking sanctions” on any individual threatening peace in Myanmar. Also, businesses with more than US$500,000 worth of investment in the country will need to file an annual report with the State Department, in which they will be required to provide details on workers’ rights, land acquisitions and any payments of more than US$10,000 to government entities, including Myanmar’s state-owned enterprises. Although the policy was criticised by human rights groups, American companies and people will be allowed to invest in the state-owned Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise—all investors need to notify the State Department within a 60-day period. Human Rights Watch (HRW) expressed its objection in an official statement: “The new United States government policy allowing business activity in Burma’s controversial oil sector with reporting requirements will not adequately prevent new investments from fueling abuses and undermining reform”. HRW’s Business and Human Rights Director Arvind Ganesan stated: “By allowing deals with Burma’s state-owned oil company, the U.S. looks like it caved to industry pressure and undercut Aung San Suu Kyi and others in Burma who are promoting government accountability”.\n\nIn May 2013, Sein became the first Myanmar president to visit the US White House in 47 years and President Barack Obama praised the former general for political and economic reforms, and the cessation of tensions between Myanmar and the US Political activists objected to the visit due to concerns over human rights abuses in Myanmar but Obama assured Sein that Myanmar will receive the support from the US. Prior to President Sein, the last Myanmar leader to visit the White House was Ne Win in September 1966. The two leaders discussed Sein's intention to release more political prisoners, the institutionalisation of political reform and rule of law, and ending ethnic conflict in Myanmar—the two governments agreed to sign a bilateral trade and investment framework agreement on 21 May 2013.\n\nOn 10 September 2007, the Burmese Government accused the CIA of assassinating a rebel Karen commander from the Karen National Union who wanted to negotiate with the military government. For background on the conflict, see\n\nIt is more fully explored on: Namebase (cross-references books on CIA activities in Burma).\nIn 2011 the \"Guardian\" newspaper published WikiLeaks cable information regarding Burma. The cables revealed that the US funded some of the civil society groups in Burma that forced the government to suspend the controversial Chinese Myitsone Dam on the Irrawaddy river.\n\nAccording to media reports citing documents published by Germany's \"Der Spiegel\" in 2010, the Embassy of the United States in Yangon is the site of an electronic surveillance facility used to monitor telephones and communications networks. The facility is run jointly by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the National Security Agency (NSA) through a group known as Special Collection Service.\n\nThe US Embassy in Burma is located in Rangoon, whilst the Burmese diplomatic representation to America is based in Washington, D.C.\n\n\nBilateral relations with the Russian Federation are among the strongest enjoyed by largely isolated Burma. Russia had established diplomatic relations with Burma at independence and these continued after the fall of the Soviet Union. China and Russia once vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution designed to punish Burma. Today Russia, along with China, still opposes the imposition of sanctions on Burma and supports a policy of dialogue. Russia, along with China, remains part of the UN Security Council which occasionally shields or weakens Burma from global pressure and criticism.\n\nRussia maintains an embassy in Rangoon whilst Burma maintains one in Moscow.\n\nIn 2007 Russia and Burma engaged in a deal regarding Burma's nuclear programme. According to the press release, Russia and Burma shall construct a nuclear research centre that 'will comprise a 10MW light-water reactor working on 20%-enriched uranium-235, an activation analysis laboratory, a medical isotope production laboratory, silicon doping system, nuclear waste treatment and burial facilities'.\n\n\nBurma is a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and part of ASEAN+3 and the East Asia Summit. Burma agreed to relinquish its turn to hold the rotating ASEAN presidency in 2006 due to others member states' concern of its previous democratic situation.\n\nAsean has announced that it shall not provide defence for Burma at any international forum regarding the authoritarian junta's refusal to restore democracy. In April 2007, the Malaysian Foreign Ministry parliamentary secretary Ahmad Shabery Cheek said that Malaysia and other Asean members had decided not to defend Burma if the country was raised for discussion at any international conference. \"Now Burma has to defend itself if it was bombarded at any international forum,\" he said when winding up a debate at committee stage for the Foreign Ministry. He was replying to queries from Opposition Leader Lim Kit Siang on the next course of action to be taken by Malaysia and Asean with the Burmese military junta. Lim had said Malaysia must play a proactive role in pursuing regional initiatives to bring about a change in Burma and support efforts to bring the situation in Burma to the UN Security Council's attention. Recently, ASEAN did take a stronger tone with Burma, particularly regards to the detention of now-released Aung San Suu Kyi.\n\nBrunei has an embassy in Yangon, and Burma has an embassy in Gadong. The relations have been established since 21 September 1993.\n\nThe relations between the two countries were established on 1 March 1957 and the first Burma mission at the legation level was set up in Kuala Lumpur in June 1959 and later raised to the embassy level.\n\nRelations between Burma and Thailand focus mainly on economic issues and trade. There is sporadic conflict with Thailand over the alignment of the border. Recently, Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva made it clear that dialogue encouraging political change is a priority for Thailand, but not through economic sanctions. He also publicised intentions to help reconstruct temples damaged in the aftermath of Cyclone Nargis. However, there were tensions over detained opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, with Thailand calling for her release. She was released in 2010. In the Thaksin Shinawatra administration, relations have been characterised by conflicts and confrontations. Border disputes are now coming more prominent and Thailand as disturbed by the imprisonment of Burma’s dissident Aung San Suu Kyi.\n\nBurma has diplomatic offices in Bangkok whilst Thailand maintains an embassy in Rangoon.\n\nPhilippines established relations with Burma in 1956 and recognised its political name Myanmar. In 2012, Myanmar ranked 3rd to the lowest among the Philippines' trading partners in ASEAN. It only fared better than Cambodia and Laos. The Philippines and Myanmar traded only $47.07 million in 2012. The Philippines grant Burmese citizens visa-free access for 30 days. Myanmar on the other hand signed the visa exemption for Filipinos on 5 December 2013 effective 4 January 2014. The agreement allows Filipinos to stay in Myanmar up to 14 days visa-free.\n\nThe People's Republic of China had poor relations with Burma until the late 1980s. Between 1967 and 1970, Burma broke relations with Beijing because of the latter's support for the Communist Party of Burma (CPB). Deng Xiaoping visited Yangon in 1978 and withdrew support for the long running insurgency of the Communist Party of Burma. However, in the early 1950s Burma enjoyed a hot-and-cold relationship with China. Burma's U သန္႕ and U Nu lobbied for China's entry as a permanent member into the UN Security Council, but denounced the invasion of Tibet.\nChina and Burma have had many border disputes, dating long before the British annexation of Burma. The last border dispute culminated in 1956, when the People's Liberation Army invaded northern Burma, but were repulsed. A border agreement was reached in 1960.\nIn the late 1960s, due to Ne Win's propaganda that the PRC was to blame for crop failures, and the increasing number of ethnic Chinese students supporting Chairman Mao Zedong, by carrying the Quotatians from his books, anti-Chinese riots broke out in June 1967. At the same time, many Sino-Burmese were influenced by the Cultural Revolution in China and began to wear Mao badges. Shops and homes were ransacked and burned. The Chinese government heavily berated the Burmese government and started a war of words, but no other actions were taken. The anti-Chinese riots continued till the early 1970s.\nHowever, after 1986, China withdrew support for the CPB and began supplying the military junta with the majority of its arms in exchange for increased access to Burmese markets and a rumoured naval base on Coco Islands in the Andaman Sea. China is supposed to have an intelligence gathering station on the Great Coco Island to monitor Indian naval activity and ISRO & DRDO missile and space launch activities. The influx of Chinese arms turned the tide in Burma against the ethnic insurgencies, many of which had relied indirectly on Chinese complicity. As a result, the military junta of Burma is highly reliant on the Chinese for their currently high level of power.\nBurma maintains diplomatic offices in Beijing and consular offices in Kunming and Hong Kong, whilst the PRC has a diplomatic mission in Rangoon and a consulate in Mandalay.\n\nBilateral relations between Burma and the Republic of India have improved considerably since 1993, overcoming disagreements related to drug trafficking, the suppression of democracy and the rule of the military junta in Burma. Burma is situated to the south of the states of Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh in Northeast India. The proximity of the People's Republic of China give strategic importance to Indo-Burmese relations. The Indo-Burmese border stretches over 1,600 kilometers. India is generally friendly with Burma, but is concerned by the flow of tribal refugees and the arrest of Aung San Suu Kyi.\n\nAs a result of increased Chinese influence in Burma as well as the safe haven and arms trafficking occurring along the Indo-Burmese border, India has sought in recent years to refurbish ties with the Union of Burma. Numerous economic arrangements have been established including a roadway connecting the isolated provinces of Northeastern India with Mandalay which opens up trade with China, Burma, and gives access to the Burmese ports. Relations between India and Burma have been strained in the past however due to India's continuing support for the pro-democracy movement in Burma.\n\nIn an interview on the BBC, George Fernandes, former Indian Defence Minister and prominent Burma critic, said that Coco Island was part of India until it was donated to Burma by former Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru. Coco Island is located at 18 km from the Indian Nicobar Islands.\n\nBurma has a fully operating embassy based in New Delhi and India has one in Rangoon, the former capital of Burma. Like the PRC, the Republic of India maintains a Consulate-General in Mandalay.\n\nIndia is the largest market for Burmese exports, buying about US$220 million worth of goods in 2000; India's exports to Burma stood at US$75.36 million. India is Burma’s 4th largest trading partner after Thailand, the PRC and Singapore, and second largest export market after Thailand, absorbing 25 percent of its total exports. India is also the seventh most important source of Burma’s imports. The governments of India and Burma had set a target of achieving $1 billion and bilateral trade reached US$650 million by 2006. The Indian government has worked to extend air, land and sea routes to strengthen trade links with Myanmar and establish a gas pipeline. While the involvement of India's private sector has been low and growing at a slow pace, both governments are proceeding to enhance co-operation in agriculture, telecommunications, information technology, steel, oil, natural gas, hydrocarbons and food processing. The bilateral border trade agreement of 1994 provides for border trade to be carried out from three designated border points, one each in Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland.\n\nOn 13 February 2001 India and Burma inaugurated a major 160 kilometre highway, called the Indo-Myanmar Friendship Road, built mainly by the Indian Army's Border Roads Organisation and aimed to provide a major strategic and commercial transport route connecting North-East India, and South Asia as a whole, to Southeast Asia.\n\nIndia and Myanmar have agreed to a four-lane, 3200 km triangular highway connecting India, Myanmar and Thailand. The route, which is expected to be completed by sometime during 2018, will run from India's northeastern states into Myanmar, where over 1,600 km of roads will be built or improved. The first phase connecting Guwahati to Mandalay is set to complete by 2016. This will eventually be extended to Cambodia and Vietnam. This is aimed at creating a new economic zone ranging from Kolkata on the Bay of Bengal to Ho Chi Minh City on the South China Sea.\n\nOperation \"Leech\" is the name given to an armed operation on the Indo-Burmese border in 1998. As the major player in South Asia, India always sought to promote democracy and install friendly governments in the region. To these ends, India's external intelligence agency, R&AW, cultivated Burmese rebel groups and pro-democracy coalitions, especially the Kachin Independence Army (KIA). India allowed the KIA to carry a limited trade in jade and precious stones using Indian territory and even supplied them with weapons.\n\nHowever, with increasing bonhomie between the Indian government and the Burmese junta, KIA becomes the main source of training and weapons for all northeastern rebel groups in India. R&AW initiated Operation \"Leech\", with the help of Indian Army and paramilitary forces, to assassinate the leaders of the Burmese rebels as an example to other groups.\n\nHistorical relations between Burma and Bangladesh include centuries of trade, cultural interactions and migration between the kingdoms and empires of Bengal and the kingdoms of Burma, particularly Arakan. Most prominently this is visible in the Indic Buddhist culture of Burma that was transmitted often through Bengal resulting in the imprint of Indian (inclusive of Bengali) culture and civilization currently found in Burma. The two nations also share a heritage of colonial commerce during the British Empire. The Bengali community in Burma is present in Rangoon and the Rakhine. In Bangladesh, a large population of Burmese ancestry resides in Chittagong and southeastern hill districts, including Rakhines and Bohmong, as well as Burmese-Bengalis. After the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971, Burma became one of the first countries to recognise the independence of Bangladesh.\n\nThe presence of 270,000 Burmese Muslim refugees (Rohingya people) in southern Bangladesh have often caused irritants in bilateral relations, which are generally cordial. A 40-year maritime boundary dispute in the Bay of Bengal was resolved by the two countries at a UN tribunal in March 2012.\n\nBangladesh has sought transit rights through Burma, to establish connectivity with China and ASEAN through projects such as the proposed Chittagong-Mandalay-Kunming highway. The governments of both countries are also in discussions on the possible export of Burmese gas to Bangladesh, as well as setting up a joint hydroelectric power plant in Rakhine State.\n\nThe political class and civil society of Bangladesh often voiced support for Burma's pro-democracy struggle. In 2006 a petition by 500 Bangladeshi politicians and intellectuals, including Sheikh Hasina and Kamal Hossain, expressed support for Aung San Suu Kyi and called for the release of all political prisoners in Burma. After winning elections in 2008, Sheikh Hasina reiterated her position on Burma's pro-democracy struggle, calling for an end to the detention of Suu Kyi and Burmese political prisoners. The Democratic Voice of Burma radio station operates bureaus in Dhaka and Chittagong.\n\nDespite border (both territorial and nautical) tensions and the forced migration of 270,000 Rohingya Muslims from Buddhist Burma in 1978, relations with Bangladesh have generally been cordial, albeit somewhat tense at times.\n\nMany Rohingya refugees, not recognised as a sanctioned ethnic group and allegedly suffering abuse from the Burmese authorities, remain in Bangladesh, and have been threatened with forced repatriation to Burma. There are about 28,000 documented refugees remaining in camps in southern Bangladesh.\n\nAt the 2008 ASEAN Regional forum summit in Singapore, Bangladesh and Burma have pledged to solve their maritime boundary disputes as quickly as possible especially that a UN deadline in claiming maritime territories will expire in three years time. However, in late 2008, Burma sent in ships into disputed waters in the Bay of Bengal for the exploration of oil and natural gas. Bangladesh responded by sending in three warships to the area and diplomatically pursued efforts to pressure the Burmese junta to withdraw their own ships. During the crisis Burma deployed thousands of troops on its border with Bangladesh. However, following the Bangladeshi deployment, within a week the ships withdrew and the crisis ended.\n\nBurma has an embassy in Dhaka, whilst Bangladesh has an embassy in Rangoon and a consular office in Sittwe. Bangladesh is also one of the first countries to begin constructing a diplomatic mission in Nay Pyi Taw.\n\nTheravada Buddhism was the link between Sri Lanka and Burma from the earliest times. There were frequent exchanges of pilgrims and scriptural knowledge with Ramanna (ancient name of the Burmese Kingdom). The resuscitation of the Sinhalese Sangha after the destructive effects of the Chola conquest owned a great deal to Bhikkus from upper Burma sent over for this purpose by the Burmese King at the request of Vijayabahu I.\n\nBy the 11th century these early religious times matured into diplomatic ties. Vijayabahu I (1055–1110 A.D.) who was engaged in a grim struggle against the Cholas received economic aid from King Anawarta of Burma. The alliance with the Burmese appears according to the chronicles to have continued after the expulsion of the Cholas and it was to Burma that Vijayabahu I turned for assistance in re-organizing the Sangha in Sri Lanka, thus underlining the connection between political ties and a common commitment to Buddhism.\n\nThe influence of Burmes architecture on Sri Lanka's religious building in Polonnaruwa is also evident. The Satmahalprasada, a setup with an unusual pyramid like form in several levels or storeys in Polonnnaruwa is the best example.\n\nIn 1865 the establishment of the Ramanna Nikaya is another major link. The Ramanna Nikaya lays greater stress on poverty and humility. This Nikaya aimed at returning to a purer form of Buddhism.\n\n•Official visit of Hon. Sirimavo Bandaranaike, Prime Minister in January (1976)\n•Visit of Hon. A.C.S. Hameed, Foreign Minister (1987)\n•Visit of Hon. Lakshman Kadirgamar, Foreign Minister (1999)\n•Visit of Hon. W.J.M. Loku Bandara, Minister of Buddha Sasana (2003)\n•Visit of Hon. Loku Bandara, Speaker of the Parliament (2005)\n•Visit of Hon Mahinda Rajapakse, Prime Minister (2004)\n•Visit of Hon. Loku Bandara, Speaker (2005)\n•Visit of Hon. Prime Minister (2006)\n•Visit of the Hon. Minister of Foreign Affairs for First Joint Commission (2007)\n\n•State Visit of H.E. Gen U Ne Win, President of Myanmar (1966)\n•Visit of H.E. U Win Aung, Foreign Minister of Myanmar in (1999)\n•Visit of H.E. Professor Kyaw Myint, Minister of Health (2005)\n•Visit of Acting Prime Minister, Lt. Gen. Thein Sein (2007)\n•Visit of the Foreign Minister of Myanmar (to participate at ECOSOC) (2009)\n\n and North Korea has an embassy in Rangoon.\n\nSince they both achieved independence in 1948, Burma and North Korea have enjoyed a chequered relationship. Burma expressed diplomatic support for the UN forces during the Korean War, but after the signing of the 1953 armistice it established good working relations with the two Koreas. Consular links with both states were established in 1961 and full diplomatic relations followed in 1975. During the 1960s and 1970s, General Ne Win’s government made efforts to balance the competing demands of North Korea and South Korea for recognition, diplomatic support and trade. However, during the late 1970s the relationship with Pyongyang became slightly stronger than that with Seoul, as Ne Win and the Burma Socialist Programme Party forged fraternal ties with Kim Il-sung and the Workers' Party of Korea.\n\nThe bilateral relationship with North Korea dramatically collapsed in 1983, after Pyongyang allegedly sent three agents to Rangoon to assassinate South Korean President Chun Doo Hwan, who was making a state visit to Burma. Due to a last minute, unannounced change to his schedule Chun survived the massive bomb attack at the Martyrs' Mausoleum, but 17 South Korean and four Burmese officials, including four Korean Cabinet ministers, were killed. Forty-six others were injured.\n\nThere was probably at least one bilateral agreement as early as 2000, but the relationship seemed to reach a major turning point around 2003. In July that year, it was reported that between 15 and 20 North Korean technicians were working at the Monkey Point naval base in Rangoon. A UN report released on February 1, 2018 cited North Korean ballistic missile transfers to the Myanmar army.\n\nIn September 2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Maldives announced that it was ceasing all trade ties with Myanmar in response to the government's treatment of the Rohingya people in Rakhine State.\n\nAlthough Burma officially recognises the PRC and not the Republic of China, there is much other interaction between the two countries. Many Taiwanese nationals own businesses in Burma. There are direct air flights to Taipei, as there are to some major cities in the People's Republic of China, including Kunming, Guangzhou and Hong Kong.\n\nPakistan and Burma have cordial relations with each other, with embassies in each other's capitals. Pakistan International Airlines has flown to Yangon in the past and still operates Hajj charter flights on behalf of the Burmese government.\n\nPakistan has a diplomatic mission in Rangoon, whilst Burma maintains a diplomatic office in Islamabad.\n\nThe Republic of Korea and Burma generally enjoy good relations. Burma has an embassy in Seoul and South Korea has an embassy in Rangoon.\n\nBelow are the years that countries have established ambassador-level diplomatic relationships with Burma.\n\nIn 1961, U Thant, then Burma's Permanent Representative to the United Nations and former Secretary to the Prime Minister, was elected Secretary-General of the United Nations; he was the first non-Westerner to head any international organisation and would serve as UN Secretary-General for ten years. Among the Burmese to work at the UN when he was Secretary-General was the young Aung San Suu Kyi.\n\nUntil 2005, the United Nations General Assembly annually adopted a detailed resolution about the situation in Burma by consensus. But in 2006 a divided United Nations General Assembly voted through a resolution that strongly called upon the government of Burma to end its systematic violations of human rights.\n\nIn January 2007, Russia and China vetoed a draft resolution before the United Nations Security Council calling on the government of Burma to respect human rights and begin a democratic transition. South Africa also voted against the resolution, arguing that since there were no peace and security concerns raised by its neighbours, the question did not belong in the Security Council when there were other more appropriate bodies to represent it, adding, \"Ironically, should the Security Council adopt [this resolution] ... the Human Rights Council would not be able to address the situation in Myanmar while the Council remains seized with the matter.\" The issue had been forced onto the agenda against the votes of Russia and the China by the United States (veto power applies only to resolutions) claiming that the outflow from Burma of refugees, drugs, HIV-AIDS, and other diseases threatened international peace and security.\n\nThe following September after the uprisings began and the human rights situation deteriorated, the Secretary-General dispatched his special envoy for the region, Ibrahim Gambari, to meet with the government. After seeing most parties involved, he returned to New York and briefed the Security Council about his visit. During this meeting, the ambassador said that the country \"indeed [has experienced] a daunting challenge. However, we have been able to restore stability. The situation has now returned to normalcy. Currently, people all over the country are holding peaceful rallies within the bounds of the law to welcome the successful conclusion of the national convention, which has laid down the fundamental principles for a new constitution, and to demonstrate their aversion to recent provocative demonstrations.\n\nOn 11 October the Security Council met and issued a statement and reaffirmed its \"strong and unwavering support for the Secretary-General's good offices mission\", especially the work by Ibrahim Gambari (During a briefing to the Security Council in November, Gambari admitted that no timeframe had been set by the Government for any of the moves that he had been negotiating for.)\n\nThroughout this period the World Food Program has continued to organise shipments from the Mandalay Division to the famine-struck areas to the north.\n\nIn December 2008, the United Nations General Assembly voted for a resolution condemning Burma's human rights record; it was supported by 80 countries, with 25 voting against and 45 abstaining.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47119619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47119619", "title": "Governor (Turkey)", "text": "Governor (Turkey)\n\nIn Turkey, a Governor (Turkish: \"Vali\") is an official responsible for the implementation of legislation, constitutional and government decisions in individual provinces. There are 81 Governors in Turkey, one for each province, appointed ceremonially by the President on the recommendation of the Interior Ministry. Governors are legally required to be politically neutral and have power over public offices within their Province, including the provincial police force. They also have a certain role in local government, though mayors and councillors are elected to these roles in local elections. The Provincial head of security (the police force) also concurrently serves as Deputy Governor.\n\nThe \"Kaymakam\", (roughly translated as 'Sub-Governor') has similar functions and roles as the Governor but operates on a district level.\n\nThe Governor is officially appointed (Turkish: \"atanma\") to his or her role by the President of Turkey. The Ministry of the Interior first presents their candidate for evaluation to the Cabinet of Turkey, which reviews the suitability of the candidate before forwarding them for approval to the President. The President then formally appoints the candidate as the Governor of a province after a final period of evaluation.\n\nThere are no set term limits for Governors, though they can be removed from their position at the will of the Interior Ministry. Governors can also be moved from province to province, meaning that it is not unusual for Governors to be appointed to a Province in which they have no prior experience or personal connection.\n\nGovernors are mainly tasked with the implementation of government legislation and decisions, meaning that they are senior members of the Civil Service.\n\nDuring ceremonies or formal national holiday celebrations, the Governor of a province serves as the most senior state official during provincial events unless a national state official (such as the President) is in attendance. The Governor presides over the celebrations and formally accepts any awards presented during a ceremony.\n\nOne of the most important functions of a Governor is to make sure decisions, constitutional requirements and new legislation are implemented within the province over which they preside. They are also tasked with the implementation of any demands of government ministries. In the event that legislation cannot be directly or practically implemented, the Governor is responsible for bringing about the conditions in which new legislation is compatible with their province.\n\nThe Governor's powers are decided by government legislation and have the right to issue a 'general command' to implement government decisions, legislation and constitutional requirements.\n\nGovernors have the right to both supervise and reorganise local government positions, which include district and metropolitan municipalities as well as municipal and provincial councillors. Although local elections are held every five years to elect mayors and councillors, the Governor (who is unelected) has the right to inspect the proceedings of local administrations as well as conduct any reorganisations that may be deemed necessary. Any legislative changes to local government (such as the 2013 local government reorganisation) are also implemented by the Governor.\n\nThe Governor has the right to preside over any matters of state that are not already covered by public institutions within a province, or any matters that do not have an assigned public official to deal with them. The Governor can also request public institutions or officials to perform tasks that are related to their aims and purpose if a public institution dealing with said tasks is not available in a province.\n\nThe Governor has the right to appoint and move some public officials from their positions, as well as provide them his or her own personal viewpoint on certain matters. The Governor, as mentioned above, can redetermine the remit and the positions of some public officials within a province.\n\nThe Governor is the highest level of provincial command of both the police forces and the Gendarmerie. The Deputy Governor concurrently serves as the head of provincial security, who in turn commands both the head of the provincial police force and the head of the provincial Gendarmerie (A Colonel). In order to maintain peace and security, a Governor has the right to take certain decisions intended to stop civil disobediences.\n\nSince Governors are appointed by the government, there have been concerns over whether Governors can truly be neutral. This is because they are appointed by a partisan government. Several politicians that have become government ministers, such as Efkan Ala and Vecdi Gönül, have previously served as Governors of multiple provinces. Furthermore, Governors have been accused on numerous occasions of acting with bias in favour of the government. İzmir Mayor Aziz Kocaoğlu accused the Governor of İzmir of campaigning for the Justice and Development Party during the 2014 local elections. Governors in Hakkari and Denizli were also accused of forcing public employees to attend President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan's controversial 'public opening' rallies before the June 2015 general election. In 2015, the Peoples' Democratic Party issued a manifesto pledge to introduce elections for Governors, rather than appointing them through the Interior Ministry.\n\nBesides the 81 Provincial Governors, some Governors who have previously served in a province may be reassigned as a 'Central Governor' \"(Turkish: Merkez Valisi)\". This post does not carry with it any active responsibilities and is effectively a means of terminating a Governor's term without withdrawing their privileges or suspending their pay (though their wages are reduced in comparison to provincial governors). The 'centre' \"(merkez)\" refers to the Ministry of the Interior, where a Central Governor is given a small office but have no role until they are reassigned to govern a province. Central Governors may visit the Interior Ministry whenever they wish. However, Central Governors may be given special tasks should the Interior Minister deem it necessary. Previously, it was possible for a Governor to legal contest their reassignment from a provincial to a central Governor in an attempt to remain in an active gubernatorial role, though this privilege has since been removed.\n\nThere are currently around 99 Central Governors, though this number changes frequently along with re-organisation decrees issued by the government.\n\nThe government usually appoints or moves serving Governors to different positions through cabinet decrees. Notable decrees are listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "522894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=522894", "title": "Great Satan", "text": "Great Satan\n\nThe Great Satan (; \"Shaytân-e Bozorg\", \"Shaytân-e Kabir\") is a derogatory epithet for the United States of America in some Iranian foreign policy statements. Occasionally, these words have also been used toward the government of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe term was originally used by Iranian leader Ruhollah Khomeini in his speech on November 5, 1979 to describe the United States, which he accused of imperialism and the sponsoring of corruption throughout the world. The speech occurred one day after the onset of the Iran hostage crisis.\n\nAyatollah Khomeini also occasionally used the term \"Iblis\" (the primary devil in Islam) to refer to the United States and other Western countries.\n\nThe post-revolutionary government of Iran has regarded the United States and the United Kingdom as imperialist states, who have a long history of interfering in Iran's internal affairs. In 1907, an Anglo-Russian agreement between Russia and Britain divided Iran into spheres of influence, calling into question , although not terminating, Iran's sovereignty. In 1953, during the Cold War, British intelligence officials and the administration of the U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower planned a joint Anglo-American operation to overthrow the elected prime minister, Mohammad Mossadeq. The Eisenhower administration was concerned that Mossadeq's nationalist aspirations could lead to an eventual communist takeover of Iran. The operation was code-named Operation Ajax. At first, the military coup seemed to fail, and Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi fled the country. After widespread rioting and with help from the CIA and British intelligence services, Mossadeq was defeated and the Shah returned to power, ensuring support for Western (chiefly British) oil interests and ending the perceived threat of communist expansion. General Fazlollah Zahedi, who led the military coup, became prime minister.\n\nIn 1965, Ayatollah Khomeini was exiled for criticizing the White Revolution's vote to women, land reform and the Shah's unpopular Status of Forces Bill, which gave U.S. military personnel diplomatic immunity for crimes committed in Iran. By the early 1970s, many Iranians opposed the Shah's government. Khomeini eventually returned to Iran and led the 1979 Iranian revolution. During the Iranian Revolution, demonstrators commonly chanted slogans such as \"Death to Shah,\" \"Independence, Freedom, Islamic Republic,\" and \"Death to America\".\n\nKhomeini is quoted as saying on November 5, 1979, \"[America is] the great Satan, the wounded snake.\" The term was used extensively during and after the Islamic Revolution, and it continues to be used in some Iranian political circles. Use of the term at rallies is often accompanied by shouts of \"Marg bar Amrika!\" (\"Death to America\"). It is used in academic journals.\n\nKhomeini called the Soviet Union, the principal antagonist of the US during the Cold War, the \"Lesser Satan\" because of its atheistic communist ideology, and he said that Iran should support neither side.\n\nThe State of Israel was condemned as the \"Little Satan\" in 1979 by Khomeini when he was addressing Israel's backing of the Shah, its close ties to the US, and the ongoing Israeli–Palestinian conflict. Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi stated that \"Israel is the little Satan\" in a July 1980 interview.\n\nThe term has been discussed extensively and addressed within the context of Iran–United States relations by some members of the United States foreign policy establishment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11993753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11993753", "title": "Heritage (Armenia)", "text": "Heritage (Armenia)\n\nHeritage (, \"Zharangut’yun\") is an Armenian national liberal party. It was founded in 2002 by Raffi Hovannisian, independent Armenia's first Foreign Minister.\n\n\n\nThe party emerged as the fifth largest party in the National Assembly of Armenia after its debut in the 2007 Armenian parliamentary elections. It obtained 7 seats and a popular vote of 5.81%.\n\nIn 2012 parliamentary election, Heritage won 5 seats by party-list with 86,998 votes. It is now the smallest faction in the Armenian parliament with Zaruhi Postanjyan as its leader.\n\n"}
{"id": "46797360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46797360", "title": "International Union of Air Pollution Prevention and Environmental Protection Associations", "text": "International Union of Air Pollution Prevention and Environmental Protection Associations\n\nThe International Union of Air Pollution Prevention and Environmental Protection Associations (IUAPPA) is an international federation of civil society organisations concerned with air pollution. IUAPPA, founded 1964 at the urging of the US Air Pollution Control Association, has 40 national organisations such as; the United States (Air and Waste Management Association), Germany (Verein Deutscher Ingenieure) and Japan (Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry) and has networks and representatives in most others countries. The Foundation is seen as one milestone in the \"Ecological Revolution\" in and around 1970.\n\nThe focus of IUAPPA is \"the development and implementation of more effective policies for the prevention and control of air pollution, the protection of the environment and the adoption of sustainable development\". IUAPPA wants to achieve the adoption and effective implementation of policies which can secure a clean and healthy atmospheric environment, together with scientists, policy-makers, regulators, business and citizen groups with this same objective.\n\nThe Global Atmospheric Pollution Forum was initiated by IUAPPA and the Stockholm Environment Institute. European Federation of Clean Air and Environmental Protection Associations (EFCA) was founded by the core of European members of the International Union of Air Pollution Prevention and Environmental Protection Associations, IUAPPA \n\nThe IUAPPA secretariat is in Burgess Hill, West Sussex, United Kingdom. The president is Kil-Choo Moon of the Korea Institute of Science and Technology and the director general is Richard Mills. IUAPPA is governed by an International Board which consists of the President, Vice-Presidents, Immediate Past President and Honorary Treasurer, together with one authorised representative from each Full Member of the Union.\n\nIUAPPA is a partner of UNEP Climate and Clean Air Coalition and has worked close together over the past decades with UNEP and WHO.\n\nSelected Members\n\nThe World Clean Air Congress, first organized by IUAPPA in 1966, is held every two or three years. It is one of the major international gatherings on atmospheric sciences and policy with 1.500 participants. Some of the more recent congresses are;\n\nEver since it was founded in 1964 the Union has had a long-term interest in the relationship between air pollution and the earth's climate. Policy declarations in 1989 were one of the first to focus on climate change. The focus in 1995 was on the changing Arctic landscape and pollution. In 2001 it was worldwide action on long-range transport of air pollution. 2010's focus was \"One Atmosphere\".\n\nIn collaboration with the International Academy of Science in Munich, the Union offers the Thomas Kuhn Award for a new understanding of problems of sustainability or the applied transfer of such new solutions and the Yuan T. Lee Award for multi-disciplinary or cross-disciplinary work which relates to the natural and psycho-sciences in pursuit of sustainability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19065247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19065247", "title": "Krystyna Kurczab-Redlich", "text": "Krystyna Kurczab-Redlich\n\nKrystyna Kurczab-Redlich (born 1954) is a Polish journalist and author.\n\nAs a correspondent in Russia for the Polish media, she has written documentary films on Chechnya investigating alleged human rights abuses by the Russian army. In 2000 she published \"Pandrioszka\", an account of life in contemporary Russia. Her 2007 book \"Głową o mur Kremla\" (\"Banging one's head against the wall of the Kremlin\"), a history of Russia from the 1980s to the present, earned her the nickname \"the Polish Politkovskaya\" (\"Polska Politkowska\").\n\nKurczab-Redlich received the Kazimierz Dziewanowski Award for her work as a foreign correspondent and the Melchior Wańkowicz Award for her reports from Chechnya. In 2005 the Chechen organization Echo of War, along with Amnesty International and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, nominated her for the Nobel Peace Prize.\n"}
{"id": "4843265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4843265", "title": "LGBT rights in Suriname", "text": "LGBT rights in Suriname\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Suriname may face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. But both male and female same-sex sexual activity are legal in Suriname. Hate speech on the basis of sexual orientation is banned in the country, though no protections exist for employment and the provision of goods and services. Same-sex marriage and civil unions are not recognised by law. Nevertheless, Suriname is legally bound to the January 2018 Inter-American Court of Human Rights ruling, which held that same-sex marriage is a human right protected by the American Convention on Human Rights.\n\nWhile homosexuality tends to be viewed as a taboo topic, the situation and attitudes have slowly changed in recent years.\n\nSame-sex sexual activity has been legal in Suriname since 1869. The age of consent for heterosexual intercourse is 16, while the age of consent for homosexual intercourse is 18.\n\nSame-sex marriages, civil unions or domestic partnerships are not recognised.\n\nIn March 2015, the Government introduced hate speech legislation which includes sexual orientation as a ground for non-discrimination complaints. Specifically, Articles 175, 175a and 176 of the Surinamese Penal Code were updated to include sexual orientation. Violation of this law can result in a prison sentence of up to one year or a fine. Despite the protective legislation, the LGBT community continues to face discrimination from the Government and society. In 2014, the Government explicitly excluded LGBT people from a social security legislation. According to the United States Department of State, some members of Parliament and the then-Vice President spoke out openly against LGBT persons, comparing homosexuality to a \"disease\" and inciting hatred and violence. Additionally, in 2015, there were reports of societal discrimination against the LGBT community in the areas of employment and housing.\n\nIn January 2017, a judge granted a transgender woman the right to have her gender formally changed with the Central Bureau of Civil Affairs and ordered the registry to officially change her registration to reflect her amended status. The Association of Pentecostal Churches in Suriname (VVPES) and the Suriname Islamic Association (SIV), which had protested against and opposed the right to recognize a gender change, indicated they would \"accept the verdict\". In February 2017, the Central Bureau of Civil Affairs formally appealed the court ruling.\n\nSuriname's first public gay rights march took place on 11 October 2011 (National Coming Out Day, \"Nationale kom-uit-de-kastdag\" in Dutch) in Paramaribo, following Ronny Asabina's comments against homosexuality in June. Two members of the National Assembly, including Harish Monorath, attended the event. It was partly organized by Suriname Men United, the largest gay men's organization in the country.\n\nOther LGBT groups include PAREA and the LGBT Platform Suriname. Both are active in raising awareness of LGBT people, organising seminars with the police force on recognizing anti-LGBT violence, and pressing for the legal recognition of same-sex couples.\n\nIn late 2016, Justice Minister Jennifer van Dijk-Silos organized several public hearings in collaboration with civil society in Suriname to discuss the expansion of the rights of LGBT people.\n\nA 2010 opinion poll carried out by Vanderbilt University showed that 20.3% of the Surinamese population supported same-sex marriage.\n\nIn May 2015, PlanetRomeo, an LGBT social network, published its first Gay Happiness Index (GHI). Gay men from over 120 countries were asked about how they feel about society’s view on homosexuality, how do they experience the way they are treated by other people and how satisfied are they with their lives. Suriname was ranked 46th with a GHI score of 48.\n\n"}
{"id": "3184841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3184841", "title": "Land Registry (Hong Kong)", "text": "Land Registry (Hong Kong)\n\nIn Hong Kong, the Land Registry () is a government department under the Development Bureau responsible for the administration of land registration. It also provides facilities for search of the Land Register and related records by the public and other government departments.\n\n\nCitizens may go to the customer service centre in Admiralty or any of the four centres in the New Territories to search and register property, as well as order photocopies of Hong Kong property documents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37862264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37862264", "title": "Last Chance (2012 film)", "text": "Last Chance (2012 film)\n\nLast Chance (French: Une derniere chance) is a 2012 documentary by Paul-Émile d'Entremont about five LGBT people seeking the right of asylum in Canada in order to escape persecution or homophobic violence in their homelands. Subjects in the film include a transgender woman who was institutionalized by her family in Lebanon, an LGBT person jailed in Egypt, as well as Trudi, a Jamaican lesbian who was \"correctively raped\" at gunpoint. \"Last Chance\" was produced by the National Film Board of Canada.\n\nD'Entremont conceived the idea for the film while in Jordan, working on his previous film, \"Reema, aller-retour\". The film took ten years to make, including three years of principal photography. Trudi's was the last story to be filmed. Montreal immigration and refugee lawyer Noel St. Pierre was also among those interviewed in the film.\n\nThe film premiered at the 2012 Atlantic Film Festival. It was also streamed free of charge at NFB.ca from December 7 to 9, 2012, to mark Human Rights Day. Awards for the film include the La Vague/Léonard Forest award for best medium- or feature-length Acadian film at the Festival international du cinéma francophone en Acadie in Moncton, New Brunswick.\n"}
{"id": "2690280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2690280", "title": "Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit", "text": "Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit\n\nThe Law Enforcement Intelligence Unit (LEIU) is an organization designed to facilitate intelligence sharing between state and local law enforcement agencies. It began in 1956 with 26 members and has since expanded to include roughly 250 members, mostly in the United States but also in Canada, Australia, and South Africa. The organization is divided into four zones: Eastern, Central, Northwestern, and Southwestern. According to its website, LEIU's purpose is to \"gather, record, and exchange confidential information not available through regular police channels, concerning organized crime and terrorism.\"\n\nSince the LEIU is not a government agency, it is not subject to the provisions of the U.S. Freedom of Information Act or its equivalents in other countries.\n\nIn June 2003, the annual meeting of the LEIU in Seattle, Washington was protested by approximately 400 people, resulting in 12 arrests, and pepper spraying of demonstrators. \"Among the activists' concerns\" were \"post-9/11 laws such as the USA Patriot Act, which gives the government expanded powers to use wiretaps, electronic surveillance and other methods of information gathering.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33350819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33350819", "title": "List of ethnic cleansing campaigns", "text": "List of ethnic cleansing campaigns\n\nThis article lists incidents that have been termed ethnic cleansing by some academic or legal experts. Not all experts agree on every case, particularly since there are a variety of definitions for the term ethnic cleansing. Where claims of ethnic cleansing originate from non-experts (e.g., journalists or politicians) this is noted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37356305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37356305", "title": "Lists of activists", "text": "Lists of activists\n\nThis is a list of lists of activists.\n\n"}
{"id": "324008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324008", "title": "Local purchasing", "text": "Local purchasing\n\nLocal purchasing is a preference to buy locally produced goods and services over those produced farther away. It is very often abbreviated as a positive goal, \"buy local\", that parallels the phrase \"think globally, act locally\", common in green politics.\n\nOn the national level, the equivalent of local purchasing is import substitution, the deliberate industrial policy or agricultural policy of replacing goods or services produced on the far side of a national border with those produced on the near side, i.e., in the same country or trade bloc.\n\nHistorically, there have been so many incentives to buy locally that no one had to make any kind of point to do so, but with current market conditions, it is often cheaper to buy distantly produced goods, despite the added costs in terms of packaging, transport, inspection, retail facilities, etc. As such, one must now often take explicit action if one wants to purchase locally produced goods.\n\nThese market conditions are based on externalized costs, argues local economy advocates. Examples of externalized costs include the price of war, asthma, or climate change, which are not typically included in the cost of a gallon of fuel, for instance. Most advocates for local economics address contracting and investment, as well as purchasing.\n\nAgricultural alternatives are being sought, and have manifested themselves in the form of farmers' markets, farmed goods sold through the community cooperatives, urban gardens, and even school programs that endorse community agriculture.\n\nAdvocates often suggest local purchasing as a form of moral purchasing. Local purchasing is often claimed to be better for the environment and better for working conditions. Others contend (with empirical evidence) that local purchasing and contracting enhances local job creation and wealth while strengthening community cohesiveness.\n\nThe first potential moral benefit is environmental: Bringing goods from afar generally requires using more energy than transporting goods locally, and some environmental advocates see this as a serious environmental threat. Transportation contributes to environmental contamination in addition to the pollution caused by chemical inputs in the growing phase. Of course, locally produced goods are not always more energy-efficient; local agriculture or manufacturing may rely on heavy inputs (e.g., industrial agriculture) or energy-inefficient machinery and/or transportation systems. However, small-scale growers tend to be more environmentally friendly because industrial-sized agriculture uses genetically modified crops, monoculture production, and chemical fertilizer-intensive processes to grow crops—practices that local farmers typically avoid.\n\nThe second potential benefit is creating better working conditions. Nonetheless, while diverting purchasing from developing countries to local farmers helps build the local economy, it can lead to worse conditions for poor farmers in developing countries because it removes potential buyers from the market.\n\nFor communities, spending at local independent businesses also generates more jobs and wealth in the local economy compared to spending at absentee-owned businesses, including corporate chains.\n\nThe goal of localisation is to reduce unnecessary transport, support entrepreneurism and to strengthen and diversify community economies. This calls for condensation of agriculture and supports the idea that local farmers are capable of sustaining a community.\n\nThe term “Buy Local” has become subject to varying interpretations. While leading advocates of local independent business such as the American Independent Business Alliance say the term should apply only to locally owned independent businesses, some campaigns run by governments and Chambers of Commerce consider \"local\" to be merely a geographic consideration. Additionally, many corporations have manipulated the term in ways critics call \"local-washing\".\n\nThe argument that \"buying local\" is good for the economy is questioned by many economic theorists. They argue that transportation costs actually account for a fraction of overall production prices, and that choosing less efficient local products over more efficient nonlocal products is an economic deadweight loss. Moreover, the community as a whole does not actually save money because consumers have to spend so much more on the more expensive local products.\n\nSimilarly the moral purchasing argument has been questioned as more and more consumers consider the welfare of people in countries other than their own. Most \"buy local\" campaigns rely on the implicit assumption that providing jobs for people in the consumers' own country is more moral than in \"foreign\" countries. They also imply that money going to foreign countries is worse than money staying in the consumers' own country. Increasingly, these campaigns have been called out as paranoid, jingoist and even xenophobic.\nAdditionally, organic local food tends to be more costly so this is not an appealing option to consumers who are shopping on a budget. Small-scale farmers do not receive government subsidies and are not able to support their business on prices comparable to those of industrial-scale food production, so they must sell at higher prices to make a living. Therefore, in order for the appeal of the local agriculture movement to overcome the economic cost, people must be willing to invest in it, which is unlikely when apparently similar products are available in grocery stores for a lower cost. Despite this, distribution costs of expansive food trade must also be factored in; with increasing gas prices, it becomes more expensive to ship food from outside sources.\n\nIn 2006, Michael Shuman proposed Local ownership import substituting (LOIS), as an alternative to neoliberalism. It rejects the idelogy of there is no alternative. Shuman claims LOIS businesses are long term wealth generators, are less likely to exit destructively and have higher economic multipliers.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3431699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3431699", "title": "Meyerhoff Scholarship Program", "text": "Meyerhoff Scholarship Program\n\nThe Meyerhoff Scholarship Program was founded at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC) in 1988 with a grant from the Robert and Jane Meyerhoff Foundation, under the guidance of future UMBC President Freeman A. Hrabowski III. It is focused on minority scholarship and awareness in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) disciplines. The program has served as a model for fostering scholarship in the African American community.\n\nFemale students of African American descent were admitted to the program as of its second year, and the program was opened up as a general scholarship with an emphasis on minority interests in 1997. This was widely viewed as preemptive action in response to the outcome of protracted litigation levied at the Benjamin Banneker Scholarship Program, the first scholarship of its kind to be ruled unconstitutional (though the University of Maryland, College Park did publicly contest the issue vigorously for years).\n\nTwo books chronicle the experiences and results of those affiliated with the program in its formative years. The first was written in the late 1990s with an emphasis on African American males with its companion volume on African American females published in the early 2000s.\n\n\nThe Meyerhoff Scholarship Program is noted for its success in increasing the representation of minority students in STEM. In an attempt to determine whether this model can be replicated at large universities, two scholarships were founded at other universities in 2013: the Chancellor's Science Scholarship at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and the Millennium Scholars Program at Pennsylvania State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "36913023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36913023", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Rwanda)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Rwanda)\n\nThe Rwandan Ministry of Defence (; ) is in charge of the Rwanda Defence Force. The Minister of Defence is responsible for the conduct and implementation of defence programmes. The current Minister of Defence is Major General Albert Murasira since October 2018.Lt.-Col. Innocent Gashugi is Permanent Secretary. Gen. Patrick Nyamvumba is Chief of Defence Staff.\n"}
{"id": "25185998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25185998", "title": "Ministry of Education (Bangladesh)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Bangladesh)\n\nThe Ministry of Education () (abbreviated as MoED) is the ministry responsible for secondary, vocational and tertiary education in Bangladesh. Primary education and mass literacy is the responsibility of the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education (MoPME).\nThe Ministry of Education contains two divisions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9501912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9501912", "title": "Myanmar Language Commission", "text": "Myanmar Language Commission\n\nThe Myanmar Language Commission (; formerly Burmese Language Commission; abbreviated MLC) is the pre-eminent government body on matters pertaining to the Burmese language. It is responsible for several projects including the Myanmar–English Dictionary (1993) and MLC Transcription System for Romanization of Burmese.\n\nMLC's predecessor, the Literary and Translation Commission (), was set up by the Union Revolutionary Council in August 1963, tasked with publishing an official standard Burmese dictionary, Burmese speller, manual on Burmese composition, compilation of Burmese lexicon, terminology, and translation, compilation and publication of textbooks, reference books, and periodicals for educational use.\n\nThe commission was re-established as the Burmese Language Commission (BLC) on 15 September 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3645813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3645813", "title": "National Human Rights Society", "text": "National Human Rights Society\n\nThe National Human Rights Society (), better known locally as HAKAM, is a human rights non-governmental organisation (NGO) that works on human rights issues in Malaysia. Hakam is considered to be one of the most vocal human rights NGOs in Malaysia.Anyone who is at least 18 years of age and a Malaysia citizen can be a member. There is a new member and renewal membership form.\n"}
{"id": "39913704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39913704", "title": "National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013", "text": "National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013\n\nThe National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013 () is a bill that was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress. The bill would alter the rules and regulations surrounding getting permits/permission to undertake mining projects in the United States. The bill would also alter that legal framework associated with this type of mining.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013 would deem a domestic mine that will provide strategic and critical minerals to be an \"infrastructure project\" as described in the Presidential Order \"Improving Performance of Federal Permitting and Review of Infrastructure Projects\" dated March 22, 2012.\n\nThe bill would set forth the responsibilities of the lead agency (federal, state, local, tribal, or Alaska Native Corporation) with responsibility for issuing a mineral exploration or mine permit with respect to project coordination, agency consultation, project proponents, contractors, and the status and scope of any environmental impact statement. It would require that lead agency to determine that any such action would not constitute a major federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) if the procedural and substantive safeguards of the lead agency's permitting process alone, any applicable state permitting process alone, or a combination of the two processes together provide an adequate mechanism to ensure that environmental factors are taken into account.\n\nThe bill would require the lead agency's project lead, at a project proponent's request, to enter into an agreement with the project proponent and other cooperating agencies that sets time limits for each part of the permit review process.\n\nThe bill would make these new rules retroactive by request, by applying the new rules to a mineral exploration or mine permit for which an application was submitted before enactment of H.R. 761 (if enacted) if the applicant so requests in writing. It then requires the lead agency to begin implementing the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013 with respect to such application within 30 days after receiving such a request.\n\nThe bill would require the lead agency, with respect to strategic and critical materials within a federally administered unit of the National Forest System, to: (1) exempt from federal regulations governing Special Areas all areas of identified mineral resources in Land Use Designations (other than Non-Development Land Use Designations); (2) apply such exemption to all additional routes and areas that the agency finds necessary to facilitate the construction, operation, maintenance, and restoration of the areas of the identified mineral resources; and (3) continue to apply such exemptions after approval of the Minerals Plan of Operations for the unit.\n\nThe bill then declares that the priority of the lead agency is to maximize mineral resource development while mitigating environmental impacts, so that more of the mineral resource can be brought to the market place.\n\nThe bill prescribes the Federal Register notice process for mineral exploration and mining projects.\n\nThe National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013 would authorize the holder of a mineral exploration or mine permit to intervene as of right in any covered civil action by a person affecting rights or obligations of the permit holder under the permit. It also bars a civil action claiming legal wrong caused by an agency action unless it is filed by the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date of the final federal agency action to which it relates. It would require the court to hear and determine any covered civil action as expeditiously as possible. It prohibits the court, in a covered civil action, from granting or approving prospective relief unless it finds that such relief is narrowly drawn, extends no further than necessary to correct the violation of a legal requirement, and is the least intrusive means necessary to correct such violation. It declares inapplicable to such a civil action specified requirements of the Equal Access to Justice Act relating to award of costs and fees to a prevailing plaintiff. Finally, the bill would prohibit payment from the federal government for court costs of a party in such a civil action, including attorneys’ fees and expenses.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that implementing H.R. 761 would have no significant impact on the federal budget. Enacting the bill could reduce mandatory payments for attorneys’ fees over the 2014–2023 period; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures apply. However, the CBO estimates that any such effects would be minimal. Enacting the bill would not affect revenues.\n\nThe bill would require the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the United States Forest Service to take certain actions aimed at streamlining the process for obtaining permits to extract minerals from federal lands. Based on information from the affected agencies, CBO estimates that the streamlining provisions would have no significant budgetary effect because those agencies are performing most of those activities under current law. The bill also would direct the agencies to expedite the publishing of notices in the \"Federal Register\" related to mineral exploration and mining projects. Based on information provided by the BLM, the CBO estimates that implementing that provision would cost less than $300,000 a year, assuming availability of appropriated funds. Those funds would be used to hire additional employees to allow the affected agencies to meet the timelines established in the bill.\n\nFinally, H.R. 761 would exempt lawsuits that affect mineral exploration or mining permits on federal lands from the Equal Access to Justice Act. That act requires the U.S. Treasury to pay the attorneys’ fees for certain plaintiffs who prevail in court proceedings against the federal government. Over the 2003–2012 period, total payments made on behalf of the BLM and the Forest Service from the Judgment Fund of the U.S. Treasury to cover attorneys’ fees under that act averaged about $1 million a year. Based on information from the Government Accountability Office, the Treasury Department, and the affected land management agencies, the CBO estimates that only a small portion of that amount was paid to plaintiffs who prevailed in cases that affected mineral exploration or mining permits. The CBO estimates that enacting H.R. 761 would reduce direct spending by less than $50,000 a year over the 2014–2023 period.\n\nH.R. 761 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act and would not affect the budgets of state, local, or tribal governments.\n\nThe National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013 was introduced into the House on February 15, 2013 by Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV). It was referred to both the United States House Committee on the Judiciary and the United States House Committee on Natural Resources. On March 1, 2013, the bill was referred to the United States House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, which held a hearing about the bill on March 21, 2013, before finally discharging the bill back to the main Committee on May 15. The full House Natural Resources Committee held a markup session about the bill on May 15, 2013 and then ordered the bill to be Reported (Amended) by the Yeas and Nays: 24 – 17. The House Judiciary Committee referred the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013 to the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law on April 8, 2013. On July 8, 2013, the bill was discharged by the Judiciary Committee, reported (amended) by the House Natural Resources Committee (alongside House Report 113-138 pt 1), and placed on Union Calendar 100. The House Majority Leader Eric Cantor placed the bill on the House Schedule on September 13, 2013 for consideration under a suspension of the rules on September 17.\n\nAccording to the National Journal, the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013 appeals to conservatives because it should streamline the process for mining on federal land and because the changes it makes will not cost the government additional money.\n\nThe Patagonia Area Resource Alliance asked its supporters to oppose the bill, due to their belief that the bill fails to protect the public interest. The organization argues that (1) most mining is being done by foreign companies, who will not be paying appropriate royalties to the federal government under the new law; (2) that an old mining law – the General Mining Act of 1872 – should be rewritten instead; and (3) that the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2013 would place too many restrictions on legal actions that could be taken against federal agencies when they fail to do their jobs properly, by adding time limits for actions and limits on damages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35571103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35571103", "title": "OGPL", "text": "OGPL\n\nOGPL (The Open Government Platform) is a joint product from India and the United States to promote government transparency and greater citizen engagement by making more government data, documents, tools and processes publicly available. OGPL will be available, as an open source platform. The OGPL combines and expands the best features of the India's \"India.gov.in\" and the U.S. \"Data.gov\" sites.By making this available in useful machine-readable formats it allows developers, analysts, media & academia to develop new applications and insights that will help give citizens more information for better decisions.\n\nThis initiative has been chaired on the Indian side by Sam Pitroda, Adviser to Prime Minister on Public Information Infrastructure and Innovations and on the US side by Aneesh Chopra, former Chief Technology Officer to President Obama.\n\nThe purpose of the platform is to enhance access and use of government data to foster innovation.\n\nIn using an open source method of development, the OGPL community will provide future technology enhancements, open government solutions, and community-based technical support. OGPL has become an example of a new era of diplomatic collaborations that benefit the global community that promote government transparency, citizen-focused applications, and enrich humanity.\n\nInitially, OGPL will provide governments the ability to\n\n\n"}
{"id": "847278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847278", "title": "Options for Change", "text": "Options for Change\n\nOptions for Change was a restructuring of the British Armed Forces in 1990 after the end of the Cold War.\n\nUntil this point, UK military strategy had been almost entirely focused on defending Western Europe against the Soviet Armed Forces, with the Royal Marines in Scandinavia, the Royal Air Force (RAF) in West Germany and over the North Sea, the Royal Navy in the Norwegian Sea and North Atlantic, and the British Army in Germany.\n\nWith the collapse of the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact in 1989, a Soviet invasion of Western Europe no longer seemed likely. While the restructuring was criticised by several British politicians, it was an exercise mirrored by governments in almost every major Western military power: the so-called peace dividend.\n\nTotal manpower was cut by approximately 18 per cent to around 255,000 (120,000 army; 60,000 navy; 75,000 air force).\n\nOther casualties of the restructuring were the UK's nuclear civil defence organisations, the United Kingdom Warning and Monitoring Organisation, and its field force, the Royal Observer Corps (a part-time volunteer branch of the RAF), both disbanded between September 1991 and December 1995.\n\n\n\nThe amalgamation of the Royal Scots and King's Own Scottish Borderers into the Royal Scots Borderers (one battalion) and the Cheshire Regiment and Staffordshire Regiment into the Cheshire and Staffordshire Regiment (one battalion) was suspended in 1994.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA dramatisation of the effects that Options for Change had on the ordinary men and women serving in the armed forces came in the ITV series \"Soldier Soldier\". The fictional infantry regiment portrayed in the series, the King's Fusiliers, was one of those selected for amalgamation. It showed the whole process of negotiation over traditions, embellishments, etc. between the two regiments involved, and the uncertainty that many of those serving felt for their jobs in the light of two separate battalions merging into one, with the resulting loss of manpower.\n\n"}
{"id": "979013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=979013", "title": "Otpor!", "text": "Otpor!\n\nOtpor! (, ) was a political organization in Serbia (then part of FR Yugoslavia) from 1998 until 2004.\n\nIn its initial period from 1998 to 2000, Otpor! began as a civic protest group, eventually turning into a movement, which adopted the \"Narodni pokret\" (the People's Movement) title, against the policies of the Serbian authorities that were under the influence of Slobodan Milošević who at the time was President of Serbia and Montenegro. Following Milošević's overthrow in October 2000, Otpor! became a political watchdog organization monitoring the activities of the post-Milošević period of the DOS coalition. Finally, during fall 2003, Otpor! briefly became a political party which soon folded due to its failure to pass the 5% threshold needed get any seats in the Serbian parliament.\n\nFounded and best known as an organization employing nonviolent struggle as a course of action against the Milošević-controlled Serbian authorities, Otpor! grew into a civic youth movement whose activity culminated on 5 October 2000 with Milošević's overthrow. In the course of a two-year nonviolent struggle against Milošević, Otpor! spread across Serbia, attracting in its heyday more than 70,000 supporters who were credited for their role in the 5 October overthrow.\n\nAfter the overthrow, Otpor! launched campaigns to hold the new government accountable, pressing for democratic reforms and fighting corruption, as well as insisting on cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal (ICTY) at the Hague.\n\nSoon after the 2003 elections, Otpor! merged into the Democratic Party (DS).\n\nOtpor! was formed in Belgrade on 10 October 1998 in response to a controversial piece of legislation in Serbia — the university law — introduced earlier that year by the Serbian government under Prime Minister Mirko Marjanović. Also, days before Otpor! got announced, the government introduced a decree (uredba) outlining special measures in the wake of the ongoing NATO bombing threat. Citing the decree, on 14 October 1998, the government's Ministry of Information headed by Aleksandar Vučić banned the publishing of \"Dnevni telegraf\", \"Danas\", and \"Naša borba\", three Belgrade dailies which were critical of the government to varying degrees.\n\nThe newly formed group named Otpor! mostly consisted of the Demokratska omladina (Democratic Party's youth wing) members, activists of the various NGOs that operated in Serbia, and students from the two public universities in Belgrade — University of Belgrade and University of Arts. It quickly grew from a small group into a network of similarly politically minded young people, many of whom were already veterans of anti-Milošević demonstrations such as the 1996-97 protests and the 9 March 1991 protest. With the political opposition in Serbia in disarray, Otpor! decided to build a broad political movement rather than a traditional NGO or political party. Frustrated with opposition leaders protecting their narrow personal and party interests, which often degenerated into infighting, the group also decided that \"it would have no leaders\".\n\nEarly on, Otpor! defined its objectives and methods, including an account of what it saw as the main problems of the country, in the \"Declaration of the Future of Serbia.\" The declaration was signed and supported by all prominent student organizations in Serbia. An advisory body was set up and its members became the main promoters of the declaration.\n\nInitially, Otpor's activities were limited to the University of Belgrade. In an effort to gather new nonpartisan energy, not to mention making it harder for state media to discredit and smear them as just another opposition political group, Otpor! avoided publicizing its ties to the Democratic Party (DS) even though the two organizations held similar political goals and shared many of the same members. Early on they agreed the organization's symbol to be the clenched fist. Young designer Nenad \"Duda\" Petrović created the logo.\n\nThe authorities' immediate reaction to the appearance of Otpor! was extremely heavy-handed, even before the movement held any public gatherings. In the early morning hours of Wednesday, 4 November 1998, four students — 22-year-old Teodora Tabački (enrolled at the University of Belgrade's Faculty of Philosophy), Marina Glišić (22, Faculty of Philosophy), Dragana Milinković (22, Faculty of Philology), and Nikola Vasiljević (19, University of Arts' FDU) — were arrested for stencil spraying the clenched fist symbol on the UofB's Faculty of Mathematics building facade. Later that same day, after reportedly being intimidated into signing a pre-typed, joint statement of guilt, the four students were taken before a misdemeanor judge who handed them a sentence of 10 days in prison. In his explanation of the sentence, judge Željko Muniža cited that \"with their brazen and reckless behaviour, the four students have endangered the citizens' calm and disturbed the public order.\" On 5 November, the students' legal representatives — Nikola Barović, Branko Pavlović, and Dušan Stojković — appealed the respective sentences citing \"improper use of both the misdemeanor process and the misdemeanor law as well as the scandalous subsequent sanction.\" One day later, the misdemeanor council rejected the appeal as baseless.\n\nThe case generated some public reaction with the University of Belgrade's Faculty of Electrical Engineering professor and Otpor! member Srbijanka Turajlić calling the sentences \"inappropriate\" and further scolding the University of Belgrade rector Jagoš Purić as well as University of Arts rector Radmila Bakočević for \"not publicly reacting to their own students being rounded-up on the street and hauled off to jail\".\n\nThe organization gained further prominence when the \"Dnevni telegraf\" (daily tabloid owned and edited by Slavko Ćuruvija) 7 November issue appeared on newsstands with Otpor's ad featuring the clenched fist symbol on the front page. The paper had previously been banned for \"spreading defeatism by running subversive headlines\", a punishment meted out under the controversial new government decree. And though the ban was lifted within a week as the decree was put out of effect only to be replaced by the new information law, \"Dnevni telegraf\"'s publishing hiatus continued past the ban being lifted and the 7 November issue was its return to the newsstands. Seeing the Otpor! ad on the front page, the authorities quickly reacted again, taking Ćuruvija and his collaborators to court within days via a trumped up private citizen's complaint and handing them another draconian fine under the information law, this time prompting the newspaper's relocation to Podgorica.\n\nSeveral days later, on Thursday, 12 November, another instance of Otpor's public exposure occurred — this time at the 1998 MTV Europe Music Awards ceremony in Assago near Milan where Radio B92 was the recipient of the Free Your Mind award. Accepting the award presented by Michael Stipe, Peter Buck, and Mike Mills of R.E.M. during live broadcast, B92 head Veran Matić came out on stage in an Otpor! T-shirt with inscription \"Живи Отпор!\" (Live the Resistance) above the clenched fist logo. In his acceptance speech, delivered in Serbian, Matić explicitly mentioned the four students that were arrested and sentenced the previous week.\n\nThe awards ceremony was carried live in Serbia on TV Košava, a station owned at the time by Milošević's daughter Marija. However, when it came time for the Free Your Mind award to be handed out in the live broadcast, only the initial intro by R.E.M. and part of the accompanying pre-taped video piece about Radio B92 was shown before abruptly cutting to an extended block of commercials.\n\nOtpor's first significant gathering took place on Saturday, 14 November at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Electrical Engineering – over a thousand students marched across town to the Faculty of Philology where a number of students were under lockdown inside the building as the authorities wanted to prevent them from joining the protest. Otpor! leader Srđa Popović (also a member of the Democratic Party) was arrested that day and then released on intervention from Amnesty International after being detained for 8 hours. By late November, Otpor! ideas reached Novi Sad, Serbia's second city, with the first graffiti appearing on buildings in the city.\n\nDuring the NATO air-strikes against FR Yugoslavia in 1999 regarding the Kosovo War, Otpor! ceased its activities. In the aftermath of NATO bombing, the organization began a political campaign aimed directly against the Yugoslav president Slobodan Milošević. This resulted in nationwide police repression against Otpor! activists, during which nearly 2,000 were arrested, some beaten.\n\nOtpor! next managed to bring opposition parties together and mobilize the population of Serbia against Milošević. It stressed the importance of mobilizing the population to vote, but also promoted \"individual resistance\" (i.e. nonviolent methods of civic disobedience in order to counter\npossible electoral fraud). This strategy was slowly embraced by the opposition parties in the months to come.\n\nThe strategy was based on two assumptions:\n\nBy fall 1999 and early 2000, the Serbian opposition political parties, most notably the Democratic Party and the Serbian Renewal Movement (SPO), realized the potency of Otpor's methods and the resonance of its message with the youth. Thus began the battle for control of Otpor! between DS and SPO. Since both parties already had a significant number of their youth wing members within Otpor!, this trend continued on a large scale with both DS and SPO (and other opposition parties as well) instructing their local chapters throughout Serbia to recruit party youth members en masse into Otpor!. As a result, Otpor's membership swelled into tens of thousands.\n\nOtpor's unified message and diverse membership proved much more attractive to young activists than the deeply divided opposition parties of the time. Although they had found common ground in Otpor!, the separate opposition parties were still reluctant to cooperate among themselves. Otpor's major challenge was to bring these divided groups together in preparation for the 2000 election campaign. Instead of using old methods of \"bringing everyone to the table and then…trying to come up with a common strategy and goal\", the original core group of Otpor! founders had gathered to first find a single goal that everyone could agree upon: removing Milošević.\n\nDuring the presidential campaign of September 2000, Otpor! launched its \"Gotov je\" (He's Finished!) and the \"Vreme Je!\" (It's Time!) campaigns, which galvanized national discontent with Milošević and eventually resulted in his defeat. Some students who led Otpor! used Serbian translations of Gene Sharp's writings on nonviolent action as a theoretical basis for their campaigns.\n\nOtpor! became one of the defining symbols of the anti-Milošević struggle and his subsequent overthrow. By aiming their activities at the pool of youth abstainers and other disillusioned voters, Otpor! contributed to one of the biggest turnouts ever for the 24 September 2000 federal presidential elections with more than 4,77 million votes (72% of the total electorate).\n\nPersuading a large number of the traditional electorate to abandon Milošević was another one of the areas where Otpor! played a key role. Milošević had in the past succeeded in persuading the public that his political opponents were traitors working for foreign interests, but in the case of Otpor!, the tactic largely backfired, as the beatings and imprisonments of their members during the summer of 2000 only further cemented the decision to vote against the government in many voters' minds.\n\nOtpor! operated on the basis of three principles: unity, planning, and nonviolent discipline.\n\nIt used the following ten strategies to achieve success: \n\n\n\n\nHumor was the basis of Otpor's campaigns; it used irony to provoke the government and motivate Serbians to join the movement. The following are specific campaigns designed by Otpor! in 1998-2000\n\nA Dinar for Change: Otpor! activists painted Milošević's face on a barrel and set up in front of the Belgrade National Theater, asking passersby to pay one Yugoslav dinar to hit the portrait. The activists went to the sidelines and watched as the barrel attracted more and more attention. Police eventually confiscated the barrel.\n\nHappy Birthday Milošević: Activists in Niš created this event to \"celebrate\" Milošević's party with a cake, a card, gifts, and wishes. More than 2,000 citizens had the opportunity to sign the card, and gifts such as handcuffs, a one-way ticket to the Hague, and a prison uniform were received on his behalf.\n\nThe Fist is the Salute: A poster campaign depicting many well-known Serbians raising their fists in opposition to Milošević. Over 50,000 copies were distributed. The campaign ended on New Year's with a Santa Claus fist poster.\n\nResistance, Because I Love Serbia: The most widespread poster campaign with a circulation of 150,000.\n\nThis is THE Year: 3,000 people gathered in downtown Belgrade for a New Year's party in January 2000. After a night of celebration, Otpor! interrupted the jubilation with pictures of the horrors of the past ten years, telling Serbian they had nothing to celebrate. The people were asked to go home peacefully and to think about how they were going to change their situation.\n\nIt's spreading: In Spring 2000, Otpor! undertook efforts to spread the movement to rural areas and the nonacademic population.\n\nIt's time!: A clock showing five minutes to twelve with the slogan \"vreme je!\" was used to convince all audiences that they must quickly act.\n\nHe's finished!: Otpor's most well-known campaign. Close to the elections, volunteers put up over 1,500,000 \"He's finished!\" (Gotov je! / Готов је!) stickers on existing posters of Milošević and all over cities.\n\nUse it!: Campaign for raising awareness of HIV/AIDS and approaching general elections in December. Posters, pamphlets, and condom packages featured stylized image of human brain.\n\nStamp it!: Campaign employed by Otpor! after the fall of Milošević. The campaign reminded Serbians that they must follow through by defeating Milošević in the December general elections.\n\nIn the immediate months following 5th October Overthrow, Otpor! members were suddenly the widely praised heroes throughout FR Yugoslavia as well as in the eyes of Western governments. From the wide range of local celebrities and public figures seeking positive attention by wearing Otpor! T-shirts, to Partizan basketball club painting the Otpor! logo in the center circle for their FIBA Suproleague game, the clenched fist was omnipresent. This widespread popularity inspired even some individuals tied to the former government to become involved with the DOS authorities by praising Otpor! and its activities.\n\nThe pop-culture component of Otpor's activities became especially pronounced in this period. On 16 November, little over a month after the overthrow, Otpor! received the Free Your Mind award at the 2000 MTV Europe Music Awards. Activists Milja Jovanović and Branko Ilić were on hand in Stockholm to accept the award presented to them by French actor Jean Reno. Back home a couple of days later, FR Yugoslavia's foreign minister Goran Svilanović held a reception for Otpor's delegation consisting of Milja Jovanović, Ivan Andrić, and Nenad Konstantinović in order to congratulate them on the MTV award. Then, in early December, Serbian singer-songwriter Đorđe Balašević held a concert in Belgrade's National Theater specifically for and in praise of Otpor! members, which was televised nationally on RTS2. The movement even turned to concert promotion itself, organizing several Laibach gigs in Belgrade.\n\nIn the midst of all the praise and adulation, the movement promised to keep on. Otpor! initially attempted to establish itself in a \"watch dog\" role after the revolution by launching campaigns holding the new government accountable, pressing for democratic reforms, and fighting corruption. It started weeks after the revolution with \"Samo vas gledamo\" (We're Watching You) campaign, sending the message of accountability to new authorities. In parallel, by November 2000, with the upcoming December 2000 parliamentary elections, launched two campaigns named \"Overi\" (Verify It) and \"Upotrebi ga\" (Use It). Though some already questioned the movement's raison d'être, the idea behind both was to encourage the electorate to \"verify\" the 5 October revolution by voting against the parties that were part of the government - the Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) and the Serbian Radical Party (SRS) - at the upcoming constituent republic-level parliamentary election.\n\nIn 2001, the corruption monitoring becoming the new focus with several new anti-corruption campaigns started (\"Bez anestezije\", etc.), but it was clear that Otpor! experienced problems staying relevant on the transformed political scene of Serbia and FR Yugoslavia.\n\nBy late November 2000 information started appearing about substantial outside assistance Otpor! received leading up to the revolution. Otpor! was a recipient of substantial funds from U.S. government-affiliated organizations such as the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), International Republican Institute (IRI), and US Agency for International Development (USAID).\n\nContacting various officials from the U.S. based organizations, in his \"New York Times Magazine\" piece, journalist Roger Cohen sought to shed some light on the extent of American logistical and financial assistance received by Otpor. Paul B. McCarthy from the Washington-based NED stated that Otpor! received the majority of US$3 million spent by NED in Serbia from September 1998 until October 2000. At the same time, McCarthy himself held a series of meetings with Otpor's leaders in Podgorica, as well as Szeged and Budapest.\n\nJust how much of the US resources appropriated in the year 2000 by USAID, for democracy and governance, which included support to groups that worked to bring an end to the Milošević era through peaceful, democratic means, went to Otpor! is not clear. However, what \"is\" clear is that the Democratic Opposition of Serbia—a broad alliance of those seeking Slobodan Milošević's downfall, among them the Democratic Party (Serbia) Otpor! would later merge with—received in excess of $30 million to \"purchase cell phones and computers for DOS's leadership and to recruit and train an army of 20,000 election monitors\" as well as to supplement them with \"a sophisticated marketing campaign with posters, badges and T-shirts.\" Donald L. Pressley, the assistant administrator at USAID said that several hundred thousand dollars were given to Otpor! directly for similar purposes.\n\nDaniel Calingaert, an official with IRI, said Otpor! received \"some of the US$1.8 million\" his institute spent in the country throughout 2000, but didn't specify the concrete figures. He also said he met Otpor! leaders \"seven to ten times\" in Montenegro (then part of FR Yugoslavia), and Hungary, beginning in October 1999. IRI particularly focused a lot of its attention on Otpor!, organizing a seminar on nonviolent resistance at the Hilton Hotel in Budapest during March 2000 and paying for about two dozen Otpor! leaders to attend it. Lectured by retired U.S. Army Colonel Robert Helvey, who did two tours of duty in the Vietnam War before devoting himself to study of nonviolent resistance methods around the world, including those used in Burma and the civil rights struggle in the American South, the Serbian students received training in such matters as how to organize a strike, how to communicate with symbols, how to overcome fear and how to undermine the authorities.\n\nThe official announcement of Otpor's transformation into a political party was made on 19 November 2003, days after the parliamentary elections had been set for 23 December. The party didn't name an official leader. However, cousins Slobodan Homen and Nenad Konstantinović played key roles. Asked about the new party's finances in November 2003, Konstantinović said it was funded by the Serbian companies.\n\nOtpor! started its election campaign on Saturday, 29 November 2003 by submitting its 250-person candidate list. In addition to former Otpor! activists such as Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Ivan Marović, Predrag Lečić, Stanko Lazendić, and Srđan Milivojević, the candidate list featured established professionals in other arenas such as professor and anti-corruption campaigner Čedomir Čupić, political analyst Dušan Janjić, psychologist Žarko Trebješanin, lawyer Boža Pelević, and former Serbian Supreme Court vice-president Zoran Ivošević. The candidate list named \"Otpor—Freedom, Solidarity and Justice\" led by Čupić fared poorly, with only 62,116 votes (1.6% of total vote) in the 2003 Serbian parliamentary election, which left it out of the parliament (the census required a minimum of 5%).\n\nBy spring 2004, in the aftermath of the election, the organization faced more turmoil when Branimir Nikolić, a prominent activist from Otpor's Subotica chapter, publicly accused the party central, namely Homen and Konstantinović, of embezzlement. Soon after, another member of Otpor!, Zoran Matović, joined Nikolić's accusations, claiming that out of the €2.1 million that came into the organization during 2001 and 2002, more than half went missing. Responding to the accusations in both instances, Homen announced his intention to sue both Nikolić and Matović.\n\nIn early September 2004, amid internal turmoil, the remnants of Otpor! merged into the Democratic Party led by Boris Tadić.\n\nThe observer reaction in Serbia to the dissolution of Otpor! was mixed. Some talked of Otpor's \"ideologically heterogeneous membership that in addition to progressives also contained those well infected with Milošević's war propaganda\", seeing the organization's eventual demise in the post-Milošević period as the victory of the latter over the former, while others believed Otpor's failure in the political arena was caused by its inability to disassociate itself from foreign aid.\n\nIn the years since its dissolution, Otpor's symbols and imagery occasionally reappeared in Serbian political life. Some of the former Otpor! activists also organized a few official commemorative gatherings.\n\nIn April 2008, during the election campaign ahead of the parliamentary election, the clenched fist was stenciled on several walls in Novi Sad. This led to an announcement of Otpor's reactivation by its former activist Nenad Šeguljev, however nothing ever came of it.\n\nLater that year on 13 November, Serbian president Boris Tadić held a reception to commemorate the 10th anniversary of Otpor's founding. Former activists Srđa Popović, Slobodan Đinović, Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Dejan Ranđić, Ivan Andrić, Andreja Stamenković, Milja Jovanović, Branko Ilić, Srđan Milivojević, Jovan Ratković, Predrag Lečić, Vlada Pavlov, Stanko Lazendić, Miloš Gagić, and Siniša Šikman were on hand at the presidential palace at Andrićev Venac, giving Tadic an old Otpor! poster. Tadić underscored Otpor's \"important role in the democratization of Serbia\". The next day, in Stari dvor, the exhibition of Otpor's materials was opened with Belgrade mayor Dragan Đilas saluting the former movement for \"the courage shown in the fight for democratic changes and thus enabling others to live in a normal country\".\n\nIn July 2011, posters with clenched fist and a message \"Pruži Otpor svakoj lošoj vlasti\" (Resist all bad authorities) appeared all over the city of Bor, protesting the local authorities' decision to build a roundabout.\n\nIn October 2011, the Democratic Party (DS) official web site (ds.org.rs) was taken down by unknown hackers who left the Otpor! logo on the site.\n\nThough its members often proudly talked of the movement's \"horizontal command hierarchy\" and its lack of established leadership structure, Otpor! still exhibited a top-down organizational model with several members from its Belgrade central office clearly asserting themselves as the main decision makers. Their involvement in Otpor! served as a springboard to Serbian political, business, and NGO careers.\n\nIn terms of media exposure, Srđa Popović is Otpor's best known member. He features prominently in Western television news items and documentaries about the movement such as the BAFTA-winning feature documentary \"How to Start a Revolution\" and PBS' \"Bringing Down A Dictator\" as well as numerous international print and Internet media pieces about the direct and indirect influence of former Otpor! members on various post-2000 revolutions around the globe.\nShortly after 5 October 2000 revolution, he left Otpor! to pursue a political career in Serbia, becoming a Democratic Party (DS) MP in the Serbian assembly as well as an environmental adviser to prime minister Zoran Đinđić. In essence, it was 27-year-old Popović's return to the DS since he was active in the party's youth wing since the early 1990s.\n\nSimultaneous to his political engagement, Popović, together with former colleagues from Otpor! Predrag Lečić and Andreja Stamenković, founded the environmental non-governmental organization Green Fist. Conceptualized as an \"ecological movement\", it attempted to transfer some of Otpor's mass appeal into environmental issues by using similar imagery, but soon folded.\n\nIn 2003, Popović, with another prominent former Otpor! member Slobodan Đinović, co-founded Centre for Applied Non Violent Actions and Strategies, (CANVAS), an organization focused on the use of nonviolent conflict to promote human rights and democracy, and eventually quit actively participating in Serbian politics. Instead, he started to cooperate with Stratfor, which paid for Popović lectures about CANVAS fomenting color revolutions also in Iran, Venezuela and Egypt.\n\nIn 2006, Popović and two of his former Otpor! colleagues, now CANVAS members - Slobodan Đinović and Andrej Milivojević - authored a book called \"Nonviolent Struggle: 50 Crucial Points\", a how-to guide to nonviolent struggle, which can be downloaded for free in six languages from their website. The book was financed with a grant from the United States Institute of Peace (USIP), an organization founded and funded by the U.S. Congress. The book has been downloaded some 20,000 times in the Middle East, mostly by Iranians. Due to their involvement in regime changes all around the globe, CANVAS has been labeled \"Academy of Revolution\" while Popović and others involved in the organization have been referred to by various media outlets as \"professors of revolution\", \"revolution consultants\", \"professional revolutionaries\", and \"revolution exporters\".\n\nIn 2007 Popović became adviser to Serbian deputy prime minister Božidar Đelić.\n\nPopović additionally heads the Ecotopia fund, the non-profit organization dealing with the environmental issues, financially backed by various Serbian governmental institutions as well as the private sector. In 2009, the fund organized a wide environmental campaign featuring well-known Serbian actors and media personalities with television spots and newspaper ads. On top of that Popović is a board member of International Communications Partners, a media and PR consulting company.\n\nToday, in addition to their revolution-consulting and training activities through CANVAS that according to one report take up a third of their year, Popović is active on the speaking engagement circuit throughout various Western countries where they're frequently hired by universities, institutes, and think-tanks to give lectures and hold workshops on strategy and organization of nonviolent struggle. Since 2008. Popović and Đinović have also launched CANVAS-related graduate program in cooperation with University of Belgrade's Faculty of Political Science.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2012, Popovic was a visiting scholar at Columbia University's Harriman Institute.\n\nIn November 2011, \"Foreign Policy Magazine\" listed Srdja Popovic as one of the \"Top 100 Global Thinkers\" of 2011 for inspiring the Arab Spring protesters directly and indirectly and educating activists about nonviolent social change in the Middle East.\n\nIn February 2012, Srdja Popovic was named to \"The Smart List 2012\" by \"Wired UK\" magazine as one of 50 people who will change the world.\n\nPopovic appeared in the 2011 BAFTA award-winning film, \"How to Start a Revolution\".\n\nIn addition to Popović, Ivan Marović is another Otpor! activist with significant media presence, both before and after Milošević fell. During the movement's activist days leading up to the overthrow, his appearances in the anti-government Serbian media were in the capacity of one of the movement's spokespeople.\n\nHe stayed at Otpor! even after the transformation into the political party and was its MP candidate at the December 2003 parliamentary election. He also became active on the speaking engagement circuit, mostly in the United States, where like Popović he gives lectures on his experiences from Otpor! days. Additionally, Marović is one of the designers behind \"A Force More Powerful\" and \"\", video games that promote nonviolent struggle as a political tool. During the mid-2000s (decade) he moved to the United States where in 2007 he earned his master's degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University in Medford, Massachusetts. In the late 2000s (decade) he returned to Serbia. Since the mid-2000s (decade), he has maintained a blog on B92.net.\n\nUnlike Popović and Marović, Slobodan Homen mostly kept behind the scenes while at Otpor!. Born to affluent parents - prominent Belgrade lawyers Borivoje Homen and Dušanka Subotić - young Slobodan was raised in privileged circumstances. During his days studying law, before becoming one of Otpor's founding members, he was the president of the University of Belgrade's student parliament. Described by sources quoted in the Serbian media as Otpor's \"alpha and omega\" during the movement's heyday in the spring and summer of 2000, Homen and his cousin Nenad Konstantinović handled everything from money to transportation. Homen was also the main point of contact for the foreign-based organizations that donated significant funds to Otpor!. Otpor's headquarters was owned by Homen's family. Some accused Homen of an obvious conflict of interest in this situation after allegations appeared that his family actually rented out the space to Otpor!, which was paying for it with the money from the incoming donations.\n\nAfter Milošević's overthrow, Homen and Konstantinović were of the opinion that Otpor! should evolve into a political party, which put them at odds with some of the movement's other activists. The two eventually got their way in 2003, but did poorly at the parliamentary elections later that year. Simultaneously, Homen and his family were involved in various high-profile real-estate business ventures in the city of Belgrade, some of which raised controversy.\n\nAfter Otpor! merged into the Democratic Party, Homen set about building a political career there. In 2008, he became state secretary in the Serbian Ministry of Justice working under cabinet minister Snežana Malović, within the government of prime minister Mirko Cvetković. Following the 10 October 2010 mass rioting by the right-wing groups in protest of the Belgrade gay pride parade, standing in front of the Democratic Party headquarters that were attacked by the rioters, Homen went on state-television airwaves, delivering a threatening message to the \"hooligans\". Speaking to a reporter, Homen said: \"I can guarantee you that they'll remember this day because the state's response to this will be chilling\". In March 2011, Homen was named the Serbian government's PR coordinator.\n\nKonstantinović, another Otpor! founding member, also went on to a notable career within the Democratic Party (DS). He's the president of the Serbian parliamentary administrative board and was a high-ranking official of the ruling coalition that held power in Serbia from 2008 until 2012.\n\nDuring his Otpor! days, Slobodan Đinović, leader of the student organization at the University of Belgrade's Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, founded an NGO called the Center for Political Analysis (CPA). The idea behind the venture was to set up an organization ready to become an alternative source for disseminating information in case Milošević shut down all the non-governmental media outlets.\n\nSoon after Milošević fell, Đinović founded Media Works, the first Wi-Fi provider in Serbia. Center for Political Analysis eventually folded as Đinović decided to focus more on his budding telecommunications business. In parallel, he was active with CANVAS.\n\nIn early 2010, Media Works merged with wired Internet providers Neobee.net and SezamPro to form Orion Telekom, of which Đinović is the CEO. Utilizing a government-issued licence for providing fixed wireless services that Media Works won in 2009, Orion began offering fixed telephony services throughout Serbia using the CDMA method of access in June 2010.\n\nIn the documentary film \"The Revolution Business\" produced by Austrian TV ORF and distributed by Journeyman Pictures, Srdja Popović claimed Đinović is the main financial backer of CANVAS. Đinović is also the managing board member of the state-owned Ada Ciganlija company, which manages the public grounds of the eponymous river island.\n\nThe creative presence behind many of Otpor's visuals and media campaigns was Ivan Andrić. After the revolution, he left the movement for politics, joining the Civic Alliance of Serbia (GSS) and becoming managing board member of the state-owned Belgrade Youth Center. He later joined the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), becoming its MP. Furthermore, in 2002, with close friend from Otpor! days and Youth Center managing board colleague Dejan Ranđić (who would also later go on to become high-ranking LDP official), Andrić founded the marketing agency Gistro Advertising that has in the years since done prominent product launches and ad campaigns for various clients in Serbia such as government ministries, political parties (including the transformed Otpor!), local municipalities, and state-owned enterprises.\n\nIn addition to contributing to Slobodan Milošević's overthrow, Otpor! has become the\nmodel for similar youth movements around Eastern Europe. MTV granted Otpor the Free Your Mind award in 2000. There were several award-winning documentaries made about the movement, most notably \"Making of The Revolution\" by Eric Van Den Broek and Katarina Rejger (launched at the Amnesty International Film Festival in 2001) and \"Bringing Down A Dictator\" by Steve York, which won a Peabody Award in 2002, narrated by Martin Sheen. It has reportedly been seen by over 23 million people around the world.\n\nOtpor! members were instrumental in inspiring and providing hands-on training to several other civic youth organizations in Eastern Europe and elsewhere, including Kmara in the Republic of Georgia (itself partly responsible for the downfall of Eduard Shevardnadze), Pora (black) (which was part of the Orange Revolution) and Vidsich (opposing the president Viktor Yanukovych) in Ukraine, Zubr in Belarus (opposing the president Alexander Lukashenko), MJAFT! in Albania, Oborona in Russia (opposing the president Vladimir Putin), KelKel in Kyrgyzstan (active in the revolution that brought down the president Askar Akayev), Bolga in Uzbekistan (opposing Islam Karimov) and in Lebanon. A similar group of students was present in Venezuela against Hugo Chávez. In 2008, an April 6 Youth Movement was founded in Egypt, which facilitated and joined the 2011 Egyptian protests, and took advice from Otpor! in the process.\n\nIn 2002, some former Otpor! members, most notably Slobodan Đinović and Srđa Popović, founded the Centre for Applied Nonviolent Action and Strategies (CANVAS). This NGO disseminated the lessons learned from their successful nonviolent struggle through scores of trainings and workshops for pro-democracy activists and others around the world, including in Egypt, Palestine, Western Sahara, West Papua, Eritrea, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Tonga, Burma and Zimbabwe as well as labor, anti-war, and immigration rights activists in the United States.\n\nIn their search for lessons learned from other activist movements, the April 6 Youth Movement in Egypt consulted with Otpor! members and adopted some of their strategies in their rallying for the 2011 Egyptian revolution.\n\nIn interviews, the leaders and consultants of Otpor! have described their involvement in the planning, coordination and implementation of the 2011 \"Arab spring\" revolutions.\n\nOtpor! was an inspiration for SQUELCH!, a satirical political party in the University of California, Berkeley's student government.\n\n"}
{"id": "2905823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905823", "title": "Packaging gas", "text": "Packaging gas\n\nA packaging gas is used to pack sensitive materials such as food into a modified atmosphere environment. The gas used is usually inert, or of a nature that protects the integrity of the packaged goods, inhibiting unwanted chemical reactions such as food spoilage or oxidation. Some may also serve as a propellant for aerosol sprays like cans of whipped cream. For packaging food, the use of various gases is approved by regulatory organisations.\n\nTheir E numbers are included in the following lists in parentheses.\n\nThese gas types do not cause a chemical change to the substance that they protect.\n\nSpecific kinds of packaging gases are aerosol propellants. These process and assist the ejection of the product from its container.\n\nThese must be used with caution as they may have adverse effects when exposed to certain chemicals. They will cause oxidisation or contamination to certain types of materials.\n\nHydrocarbon gases approved for use with food need to be used with extreme caution as they are highly combustible, when combined with oxygen they burn very rapidly and may cause explosions in confined spaces. Special precautions must be taken when transporting these gases.\n\n"}
{"id": "31455914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31455914", "title": "Pedro Bartolomé Benoit", "text": "Pedro Bartolomé Benoit\n\nPedro Bartolomé Benoit Vanderhorst (February 13, 1921, Samaná – April 5, 2012) was a politician and military officer from the Dominican Republic. He served as the 7th provisional president of the Dominican Republic from 1 May until 7 May 1965. He was also a member of the Revolutionary Committee, which ruled the country for about few hours on 25 April 1965. \n\n"}
{"id": "45414589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45414589", "title": "Politics as Usual (book)", "text": "Politics as Usual (book)\n\nPolitics as Usual: What Lies Behind the Pro-Poor Rhetoric is a 2010 book by Thomas Pogge. The book is a discussion on issues of global significance and their relationship to poverty. Politics as Usual is based on previously compiled essays. Pogge's book present an alternate view than the one where \"Education, health-care, technology, and political participation are becoming ever more universal, empowering human beings everywhere to enjoy security, economic sufficiency, equal citizenship, and a life in dignity.\" according to Crop. He presents one where Poverty and oppression persist on a massive scale, one where the affluent states and international organizations knowingly contribute and even benefit from these evils.\n\nThomas Pogge covers a number of political and philosophical topics including Negative Duties, In World Poverty and Human Rights Pogge had argued that Western states are complicit and in Politics as Usual he expands and analyses different aspect of Global poverty.The book notes that the bottom half of the worlds population has seen it's wealth shrink to 1.1 percent with global household income shrinking to 3 percent, during the same period that the top ten percent have seen their shares rise to 85.1 and 71.1 percent respectively. This is due to the affluent countries having power to formulate policies and the poorest countries must take the blunt of the global repercussions of these policies according to Pogge. This can change due to people in the affluent countries becoming aware of their effect on worldwide poverty and pressuring their politicians to take action, or at least to \"do no harm\". He further contends that organizations such as the World Trade Organization have a deeper moral obligation than individuals or governments because they are moral agents of the global poor.\n\nPogge addresses Islamist terror attacks in New York, London, and Madrid. The attackers may have justified their attacks seeking a greater good but the attacks of innocents failed the greater good test even among the attackers standards. He expands to state that the terrorists were wrong to attack in the name of religion and that the governments are also at fault for the war on terror because they inflict harm upon the innocents without considering the moral implications.\n\nThomas Pogge contends that we are violating our negative duty not to harm the poor by supporting oppressive regimes which further cements their position. Pogge states that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights gives people specific economic rights and including \"Everyone has a right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care.\", which is violated by the international economic system we now have.\n\nRuth Jack of \"The Kelvingrove Review\" states that Pogge's argument that world leaders not only allow the status quo to persist but actively and knowingly collude to maintain it for their own ends is not convincing while Pogge's statistical analysis of the depth of world poverty are accurate and should be noted.\n\nS. Subramanian states that the book makes for painful reading, not because of the author but because of the topic, it states many crimes against humanity, also described as \"unimaginable cost of lives as a result of injustices against the poor addressed by his work\".\n"}
{"id": "521597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521597", "title": "Project Blue Book", "text": "Project Blue Book\n\nProject Blue Book was one of a series of systematic studies of unidentified flying objects (UFOs) conducted by the United States Air Force. It started in 1952, and it was the third study of its kind (the first two were projects Sign (1947) and Grudge (1949)). A termination order was given for the study in December 1969, and all activity under its auspices ceased in January 1970.\n\nProject Blue Book had two goals:\nThousands of UFO reports were collected, analyzed and filed. As the result of the \"Condon Report\" (1968), which concluded there was nothing anomalous about UFOs, Project Blue Book was ordered shut down in December 1969 and the Air Force continues to provide the following summary of its investigations:\n\nBy the time Project Blue Book ended, it had collected 12,618 UFO reports, and concluded that most of them were misidentifications of natural phenomena (clouds, stars, etc.) or conventional aircraft. According to the National Reconnaissance Office a number of the reports could be explained by flights of the formerly secret reconnaissance planes U-2 and A-12. A small percentage of UFO reports were classified as unexplained, even after stringent analysis. The UFO reports were archived and are available under the Freedom of Information Act, but names and other personal information of all witnesses have been redacted.\n\nPublic USAF UFO studies were first initiated under Project Sign at the end of 1947, following many widely publicized UFO reports (see Kenneth Arnold). Project Sign was initiated specifically at the request of General Nathan Twining, chief of the Air Force Materiel Command at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Wright-Patterson was also to be the home of Project Sign and all subsequent official USAF public investigations.\n\nSign was officially inconclusive regarding the cause of the sightings. However, according to US Air Force Captain Edward J. Ruppelt (the first director of Project Blue Book), Sign's initial intelligence estimate (the so-called Estimate of the Situation) written in the late summer of 1948, concluded that the flying saucers were real craft, were not made by either the Soviet Union or United States, and were likely extraterrestrial in origin. (See also extraterrestrial hypothesis.) This estimate was forwarded to the Pentagon, but subsequently ordered destroyed by Gen. Hoyt Vandenberg, USAF Chief of Staff, citing a lack of physical proof. Vandenberg subsequently dismantled Project Sign.\n\nProject Sign was succeeded at the end of 1948 by Project Grudge, which was criticized as having a debunking mandate. Ruppelt referred to the era of Project Grudge as the \"dark ages\" of early USAF UFO investigation. Grudge concluded that all UFOs were natural phenomena or other misinterpretations, although it also stated that 23 percent of the reports could not be explained.\n\nAccording to Captain Edward J. Ruppelt, by the end of 1951, several high-ranking, very influential USAF generals were so dissatisfied with the state of Air Force UFO investigations that they dismantled Project Grudge and replaced it with Project Blue Book in March 1952. One of these men was Gen. Charles P. Cabell. Another important change came when General William Garland joined Cabell's staff; Garland thought the UFO question deserved serious scrutiny because he had witnessed a UFO.\n\nThe new name, Project Blue Book, was selected to refer to the blue booklets used for testing at some colleges and universities. The name was inspired, said Ruppelt, by the close attention that high-ranking officers were giving the new project; it felt as if the study of UFOs was as important as a college final exam. Blue Book was also upgraded in status from Project Grudge, with the creation of the Aerial Phenomenon Branch.\n\nRuppelt was the first head of the project. He was an experienced airman, having been decorated for his efforts with the Army Air Corps during World War II, and having afterward earned an aeronautics degree. He officially coined the term \"Unidentified Flying Object\", to replace the many terms (\"flying saucer\" \"flying disk\" and so on) the military had previously used; Ruppelt thought that \"unidentified flying object\" was a more neutral and accurate term. Ruppelt resigned from the Air Force some years later, and wrote the book \"The Report on Unidentified Flying Objects\", which described the study of UFOs by United States Air Force from 1947 to 1955. American scientist Michael D. Swords wrote that \"Ruppelt would lead the last genuine effort to analyze UFOs\".\n\nRuppelt implemented a number of changes: He streamlined the manner in which UFOs were reported to (and by) military officials, partly in hopes of alleviating the stigma and ridicule associated with UFO witnesses. Ruppelt also ordered the development of a standard questionnaire for UFO witnesses, hoping to uncover data which could be subject to statistical analysis. He commissioned the Battelle Memorial Institute to create the questionnaire and computerize the data. Using case reports and the computerized data, Battelle then conducted a massive scientific and statistical study of all Air Force UFO cases, completed in 1954 and known as \"Project Blue Book Special Report No. 14\" (see summary below).\n\nKnowing that factionalism had harmed the progress of Project Sign, Ruppelt did his best to avoid the kinds of open-ended speculation that had led to Sign's personnel being split among advocates and critics of the extraterrestrial hypothesis. As Michael Hall writes, \"Ruppelt not only took the job seriously but expected his staff to do so as well. If anyone under him either became too skeptical or too convinced of one particular theory, they soon found themselves off the project.\" In his book, Ruppelt reported that he fired three personnel very early in the project because they were either \"too pro\" or \"too con\" one hypothesis or another. Ruppelt sought the advice of many scientists and experts, and issued regular press releases (along with classified monthly reports for military intelligence).\n\nEach U.S. Air Force Base had a Blue Book officer to collect UFO reports and forward them to Ruppelt. During most of Ruppelt's tenure, he and his team were authorized to interview any and all military personnel who witnessed UFOs, and were not required to follow the chain of command. This unprecedented authority underlined the seriousness of Blue Book's investigation.\n\nUnder Ruppelt's direction, Blue Book investigated a number of well-known UFO cases, including the so-called Lubbock Lights, and a widely publicized 1952 radar/visual case over Washington D.C.. According to Jacques Vallee, Ruppelt started the trend, largely followed by later Blue Book investigations, of not giving serious consideration to numerous reports of UFO landings and/or interaction with purported UFO occupants.\n\nAstronomer Dr. J. Allen Hynek was the scientific consultant of the project, as he had been with Projects Sign and Grudge. He worked for the project up to its termination and initially created the categorization which has been extended and is known today as Close encounters. He was a pronounced skeptic when he started, but said that his feelings changed to a more wavering skepticism during the research, after encountering a minority of UFO reports he thought were unexplainable. \n\nRuppelt left Blue Book in February 1953 for a temporary reassignment. He returned a few months later to find his staff reduced from more than ten, to two subordinates. Frustrated, Ruppelt suggested that an Air Defense Command unit (the 4602nd Air Intelligence Service Squadron) be charged with UFO investigations.\n\nIn July 1952, after a build-up of hundreds of sightings over the previous few months, a series of radar detections coincident with visual sightings were observed near the National Airport in Washington, D.C. (see 1952 Washington D.C. UFO incident). Future Arizona Senator and 2008 presidential nominee John McCain is alleged to be one of these witnesses.\n\nAfter much publicity, these sightings led the Central Intelligence Agency to establish a panel of scientists headed by Dr. H. P. Robertson, a physicist of the California Institute of Technology, which included various physicists, meteorologists, and engineers, and one astronomer (Hynek). The Robertson Panel first met on January 14, 1953 in order to formulate a response to the overwhelming public interest in UFOs.\n\nRuppelt, Hynek, and others presented the best evidence, including movie footage, that had been collected by Blue Book. After spending 12 hours reviewing 6 years of data, the Robertson Panel concluded that most UFO reports had prosaic explanations, and that all could be explained with further investigation, which they deemed not worth the effort.\n\nIn their final report, they stressed that low-grade, unverifiable UFO reports were overloading intelligence channels, with the risk of missing a genuine conventional threat to the U.S. Therefore, they recommended the Air Force de-emphasize the subject of UFOs and embark on a debunking campaign to lessen public interest. They suggested debunkery through the mass media, including Walt Disney Productions, and using psychologists, astronomers, and celebrities to ridicule the phenomenon and put forward prosaic explanations. Furthermore, civilian UFO groups \"should be watched because of their potentially great influence on mass thinking… The apparent irresponsibility and the possible use of such groups for subversive purposes should be kept in mind.\"\n\nIt is the conclusion of many researchers that the Robertson Panel was recommending controlling public opinion through a program of official propaganda and spying. They also believe these recommendations helped shape Air Force policy regarding UFO study not only immediately afterward, but also into the present day. There is evidence that the Panel's recommendations were being carried out at least two decades after its conclusions were issued (see the main article for details and citations).\n\nIn December 1953, Joint Army-Navy-Air Force Regulation number 146 made it a crime for military personnel to discuss classified UFO reports with unauthorized persons. Violators faced up to two years in prison and/or fines of up to $10,000.\n\nIn his book (see external links) Ruppelt described the demoralization of the Blue Book staff and the stripping of their investigative duties following the Robertson Panel jurisdiction.\n\nAs an immediate consequence of the Robertson Panel recommendations, in February 1953, the Air Force issued Regulation 200-2, ordering air base officers to publicly discuss UFO incidents only if they were judged to have been solved, and to classify all the unsolved cases to keep them out of the public eye.\n\nThe same month, investigative duties started to be taken on by the newly formed 4602nd Air Intelligence Squadron (AISS) of the Air Defense Command. The 4602nd AISS was assigned the task of investigating only the most important UFO cases with intelligence or national security implications. These cases were deliberately siphoned away from Blue Book, leaving Blue Book to deal with the more trivial reports.\n\nGeneral Nathan Twining, who started Project Sign in 1947, was now Air Force Chief of Staff. In August 1954, he was to further codify the responsibilities of the 4602nd AISS by issuing an updated Air Force Regulation 200-2. In addition, UFOs (called \"UFOBs\") were defined as \"any airborne object which by performance, aerodynamic characteristics, or unusual features, does not conform to any presently known aircraft or missile type, or which cannot be positively identified as a familiar object.\" Investigation of UFOs was stated to be for the purposes of national security and to ascertain \"technical aspects.\" AFR 200-2 again stated that Blue Book could discuss UFO cases with the media only if they were regarded as having a conventional explanation. If they were unidentified, the media was to be told only that the situation was being analyzed. Blue Book was also ordered to reduce the number of unidentified to a minimum.\n\nAll this work was done secretly. The public face of Blue Book continued to be the official Air Force investigation of UFOs, but the reality was it had essentially been reduced to doing very little serious investigation, and had become almost solely a public relations outfit with a debunking mandate. To cite one example, by the end of 1956, the number of cases listed as unsolved had dipped to barely 0.4 percent, from the 20 to 30% only a few years earlier.\n\nEventually, Ruppelt requested reassignment; at his departure in August 1953, his staff had been reduced from more than ten (precise numbers of personnel varied) to just two subordinates and himself. His temporary replacement was a noncommissioned officer. Most who succeeded him as Blue Book director exhibited either apathy or outright hostility to the subject of UFOs, or were hampered by a lack of funding and official support.\n\nUFO investigators often regard Ruppelt's brief tenure at Blue Book as the high-water mark of public Air Force investigations of UFOs, when UFO investigations were treated seriously and had support at high levels. Thereafter, Project Blue Book descended into a new \"Dark Ages\" from which many UFO investigators argue it never emerged. However, Ruppelt later came to embrace the Blue Book perspective that there was nothing extraordinary about UFOs; he even labeled the subject a \"Space Age Myth.\"\n\nIn March 1954, Captain Charles Hardin was appointed the head of Blue Book; however, the 4602nd conducted most UFO investigations, and Hardin did not object. Ruppelt wrote that Hardin \"thinks that anyone who is even interested [in UFOs] is crazy. They bore him.\"\n\nIn 1955, the Air Force decided that the goal of Blue Book should not be to investigate UFO reports, but to minimize the number of unidentified UFO reports. By late 1956, the number of unidentified sightings had dropped from the 20-25% of the Ruppelt era, to less than 1%.\n\nCaptain George T. Gregory took over as Blue Book's director in 1956. Clark writes that Gregory led Blue Book \"in an even firmer anti-UFO direction than the apathetic Hardin.\" The 4602nd was dissolved, and the 1066th Air Intelligence Service Squadron was charged with UFO investigations.\n\nIn fact, there was actually little or no investigation of UFO reports; a revised AFR 200-2 issued during Gregory's tenure emphasized that unexplained UFO reports must be reduced to a minimum.\n\nOne way that Gregory reduced the number of unexplained UFOs was by simple reclassification. \"Possible cases\" became \"probable\", and \"probable\" cases were upgraded to certainties. By this logic, a \"possible\" comet became a \"probable\" comet, while a probable comet was flatly declared to have been a misidentified comet. Similarly, if a witness reported an observation of an unusual balloon-\"like\" object, Blue Book usually classified it as a balloon, with no research and qualification. These procedures became standard for most of Blue Book's later investigations; see Hynek's comments below.\n\nMajor Robert J. Friend was appointed the head of Blue Book in 1958. Friend made some attempts to reverse the direction Blue Book had taken since 1954. Clark writes that \"Friend's efforts to upgrade the files and catalog sightings according to various observed statistics were frustrated by a lack of funding and assistance.\"\n\nHeartened by Friend's efforts, Hynek organized the first of several meetings between Blue Book staffers and ATIC personnel in 1959. Hynek suggested that some older UFO reports should be reevaluated, with the ostensible aim of moving them from the \"unknown\" to the \"identified\" category. Hynek's plans came to naught.\n\nDuring Friend's tenure, ATIC contemplated passing oversight Blue Book to another Air Force agency, but neither the Air Research and Development Center, nor the Office of Information for the Secretary of the Air Force was interested.\n\nIn 1960, there were U.S. Congressional hearings regarding UFOs. Civilian UFO research group NICAP had publicly charged Blue Book with covering up UFO evidence, and had also acquired a few allies in the U.S. Congress. Blue Book was investigated by the Congress and the CIA, with critics—most notably the civilian UFO group NICAP asserting that Blue Book was lacking as a scientific study. In response, ATIC added personnel (increasing the total personnel to three military personnel, plus civilian secretaries) and increased Blue Book's budget. This seemed to mollify some of Blue Book's critics, that but it was only temporary. A few years later (see below), the criticism would be even louder.\n\nBy the time he was transferred from Blue Book in 1963, Friend thought that Blue Book was effectively useless and ought to be dissolved, even if it caused an outcry amongst the public.\n\nMajor Hector Quintanilla took over as Blue Book's leader in August 1963. He largely continued the debunking efforts, and it was under his direction that Blue Book received some of its sharpest criticism. UFO researcher Jerome Clark goes so far as to write that, by this time, Blue Book had \"lost all credibility.\"\n\nPhysicist and UFO researcher Dr. James E. McDonald once flatly declared that Quintanilla was \"not competent\" from either a scientific or an investigative perspective, although he also stressed that Quintanilla \"shouldn't be held accountable for it,\" as he was chosen for his position by a superior officer, and was following orders in directing Blue Book.\n\nBlue Book's explanations of UFO reports were not universally accepted, however, and critics — including some scientists — suggested that Project Blue Book performed questionable research or, worse, was perpetrating cover up. This criticism grew especially strong and widespread in the 1960s.\n\nTake, for example, the many mostly nighttime UFO reports from the midwestern and southeastern United States in the summer of 1965: Witnesses in Texas reported \"multicolored lights\" and large aerial objects shaped like eggs or diamonds. The Oklahoma Highway Patrol reported that Tinker Air Force Base (near Oklahoma City) had tracked up to four UFOs simultaneously, and that several of them had descended very rapidly: from about 22000 feet to about 4000 feet in just a few seconds, an action well beyond the capabilities of conventional aircraft of the era. John Shockley, a meteorologist from Wichita, Kansas, reported that, using the state Weather Bureau radar, he tracked a number of odd aerial objects flying at altitudes between about 6000 and 9000 feet. These and other reports received wide publicity.\n\nProject Blue Book officially determined the witnesses had mistaken Jupiter or bright stars (such as Rigel or Betelgeuse) for something else.\n\nBlue Book's explanation was widely criticized as inaccurate. Robert Riser, director of the Oklahoma Science and Art Foundation Planetarium offered a strongly worded rebuke of Project Blue Book that was widely circulated: “That is as far from the truth as you can get. These stars and planets are on the opposite side of the earth from Oklahoma City at this time of year. The Air Force must have had its star finder upside-down during August.\"\n\nA newspaper editorial from the \"Richmond News Leader\" opined that \"Attempts to dismiss the reported sightings under the rationale as exhibited by Project Bluebook (sic) won't solve the mystery … and serve only to heighten the suspicion that there's something out there that the air force doesn't want us to know about\", while a Wichita-based UPI reporter noted that \"Ordinary radar does not pick up planets and stars.\"\n\nAnother case that Blue Book's critics seized upon was the so-called Portage County UFO Chase, which began at about 5.00am, near Ravenna, Ohio on April 17, 1966. Police officers Dale Spaur and Wilbur Neff spotted what they described as a disc-shaped, silvery object with a bright light emanating from its underside, at about 1000 feet in altitude. They began following the object (which they reported sometimes descended as low as 50 feet), and police from several other jurisdictions were involved in the pursuit. The chase ended about 30 minutes later near Freedom, Pennsylvania, some 85 miles away.\n\nThe UFO chase made national news, and the police submitted detailed reports to Blue Book. Five days later, following brief interviews with only one of the police officers (but none of the other ground witnesses), Blue Book's director, Major Hector Quintanilla, announced their conclusions: The police (one of them an Air Force gunner during the Korean War) had first chased a communications satellite, then the planet Venus.\n\nThis conclusion was widely derided, and police officers strenuously rejected it. In his dissenting conclusion, Hynek described Blue Book's conclusions as absurd: in their reports, several of the police had unknowingly described the moon, Venus \"and\" the UFO, though they unknowingly described Venus as a bright \"star\" very near the moon. Ohio Congressman William Stanton said that \"The Air Force has suffered a great loss of prestige in this community … Once people entrusted with the public welfare no longer think the people can handle the truth, then the people, in return, will no longer trust the government.\"\n\nIn September 1968, Hynek received a letter from Colonel Raymond Sleeper of the Foreign Technology Division. Sleeper noted that Hynek had publicly accused Blue Book of shoddy science, and further asked Hynek to offer advice on how Blue Book could improve its scientific methods. Hynek was to later declare that Sleeper's letter was \"the first time in my 20 year association with the air force as scientific consultant that I had been officially asked for criticism and advice [regarding] … the UFO problem.\"\n\nHynek wrote a detailed response, dated October 7, 1968, suggesting several areas where Blue Book could improve. In part, he wrote:\n\nDespite Sleeper's request for criticism, none of Hynek's commentary resulted in any substantial changes in Blue Book.\n\nQuintanilla's own perspective on the project is documented in his manuscript, \"UFOs, An Air Force Dilemma.” Lt. Col Quintanilla wrote the manuscript in 1975, but it was not published until after his death. Quintanilla states in the text that he personally believed it arrogant to think human beings were the only intelligent life in the universe. Yet, while he found it highly likely that intelligent life existed beyond earth, he had no hard evidence of any extra terrestrial visitation.\n\nIn 1966, a string of UFO sightings in Massachusetts and New Hampshire provoked a Congressional Hearing by the House Committee on Armed Services. According to attachments to the hearing, the Air Force had at first stated that the sightings were the result of a training exercise happening in the area. But NICAP, the National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena, reported that there was no record of a plane flying at the time the sightings occurred. Another report alleged that the UFO was actually a flying billboard advertising gasoline. Raymond Fowler (of NICAP) added his own interviews with the locals, who saw Air Force officers confiscating newspapers with the story of UFOs and telling them not to report what they had seen. Two police officers who had witnessed the UFOs, Eugene Bertrand and David Hunt, wrote a letter to Major Quintanilla stating that they felt their reputations were destroyed by the Air Force. \"It was impossible to mistake what we saw for any kind of military operation, regardless of altitude,\" the irritated officers wrote, adding that there was no way it could have been a balloon or helicopter.\nAccording to Secretary Harold Brown of the Air Force, Blue Book consisted of three steps: investigation, analysis, and the distribution of information gathered to interested parties. After Brown gave permission, the press were invited into the hearing. \nBy the time of the hearing, Blue Book had identified and explained 95% of the reported UFO sightings. None of these were extraterrestrial or a threat to national security. Brown himself proclaimed, \"I know of no one of scientific standing or executive standing with a detailed knowledge of this, in our organization who believes that they came from extraterrestrial sources.\" Dr. J. Allen Hynek, a science consultant to Blue Book, suggested in an unedited statement that a \"civilian panel of physical and social scientists\" be formed \"for the express purpose of determining whether a major problem really exist\" in regards to UFOs. Hynek remarked that he has \"not seen any evidence to confirm\" extraterrestrials, \"nor do I know any competent scientist who has, or who believes that any kind of extraterrestrial intelligence is involved.\" \n\nCriticism of Blue Book continued to grow through the mid-1960s. NICAP's membership ballooned to about 15,000, and the group charged the U.S. Government with a cover-up of UFO evidence.\n\nFollowing U.S. Congressional hearings, the Condon Committee was established in 1966, ostensibly as a neutral scientific research body. However, the Committee became mired in controversy, with some members charging director Edward U. Condon with bias, and critics would question the validity and the scientific rigor of the Condon Report.\n\nIn the end, the Condon Committee suggested that there was nothing extraordinary about UFOs, and while it left a minority of cases unexplained, the report also argued that further research would not be likely to yield significant results.\n\nIn response to the Condon Committee's conclusions, Secretary of the Air Force Robert C. Seamans, Jr. announced that Blue Book would soon be closed, because further funding \"cannot be justified either on the grounds of national security or in the interest of science.\" The last publicly acknowledged day of Blue Book operations was December 17, 1969. However, researcher Brad Sparks, citing research from the May, 1970 issue of NICAP's \"UFO Investigator\", reports that the last day of Blue Book activity was actually January 30, 1970. According to Sparks, Air Force officials wanted to keep the Air Force's reaction to the UFO problem from overlapping into a fourth decade, and thus altered the date of Blue Book's closure in official files.\n\nBlue Book's files were sent to the Air Force Archives at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama. Major David Shea was to later claim that Maxwell was chosen because it was \"accessible yet not too inviting.\"\n\nUltimately, Project Blue Book stated that UFOs sightings were generated as a result of:\n\n\nIn April 2003, the USAF publicly indicated that there were no immediate plans to re-establish any official government UFO study programs. However, in December 2017 it was disclosed that a new secret UFO study titled the Advanced Aviation Threat Identification Program was funded at over 20 million dollars a year from 2007 to 2012.\n\nBelow is the United States Air Force's official statement regarding UFOs, as noted in USAF Fact Sheet 95-03:\n\nAn Air Force memorandum (released via the Freedom of Information Act) dated October 20, 1969 and signed by Brigadier General C.H. Bolander states that even after Blue Book was dissolved, that \"reports of UFOs\" would still \"continue to be handled through the standard Air Force procedure designed for this purpose.\" Furthermore, wrote Bolander, \"Reports of unidentified flying objects which could affect national security … are not part of the Blue Book system.\" To date, these other investigation channels, agencies or groups are unknown.\n\nAdditionally, Blum reports that Freedom of Information Act requests show that the U.S. Air Force has continued to catalog and track UFO sightings, particularly a series of dozens of UFO encounters from the late 1960s to the mid-1970s that occurred at U.S. military facilities with nuclear weapons. Blum writes that some of these official documents depart drastically from the normally dry and bureaucratic wording of government paperwork, making obvious the sense of \"terror\" that these UFO incidents inspired in many U.S.A.F. personnel.\n\nIn late December 1951, Ruppelt met with members of the Battelle Memorial Institute, a think tank based in Columbus, Ohio. Ruppelt wanted their experts to assist them in making the Air Force UFO study more scientific. It was the Battelle Institute that devised the standardized reporting form. Starting in late March 1952, the Institute started analyzing existing sighting reports and encoding about 30 report characteristics onto IBM punched cards for computer analysis.\n\nProject Blue Book Special Report No. 14 was their massive statistical analysis of Blue Book cases to date, some 3200 by the time the report was completed in 1954, after Ruppelt had left Blue Book. Even today, it represents the largest such study ever undertaken. Battelle employed four scientific analysts, who sought to divide cases into \"knowns\", \"unknowns\", and a third category of \"insufficient information.\" They also broke down knowns and unknowns into four categories of quality, from excellent to poor. E.g., cases deemed excellent might typically involve experienced witnesses such as airline pilots or trained military personnel, multiple witnesses, corroborating evidence such as radar contact or photographs, etc. In order for a case to be deemed a \"known\", only two analysts had to independently agree on a solution. However, for a case to be called an \"unknown\", all four analysts had to agree. Thus the criterion for an \"unknown\" was quite stringent.\n\nIn addition, sightings were broken down into six different characteristics — color, number, duration of observation, brightness, shape, and speed — and then these characteristics were compared between knowns and unknowns to see if there was a statistically significant difference.\n\nThe main results of the statistical analysis were:\n\n\nDespite this, the summary section of the Battelle Institute's final report declared it was \"highly improbable that any of the reports of unidentified aerial objects... represent observations of technological developments outside the range of present-day knowledge.\" A number of researchers, including Dr. Bruce Maccabee, who extensively reviewed the data, have noted that the conclusions of the analysts were usually at odds with their own statistical results, displayed in 240 charts, tables, graphs and maps. Some conjecture that the analysts may simply have had trouble accepting their own results or may have written the conclusions to satisfy the new political climate within Blue Book following the Robertson Panel.\n\nWhen the Air Force finally made Special Report #14 public in October 1955, it was claimed that the report scientifically proved that UFOs did not exist. Critics of this claim note that the report actually proved that the \"unknowns\" were distinctly different from the \"knowns\" at a very high statistical significance level. The Air Force also incorrectly claimed that only 3% of the cases studied were unknowns, instead of the actual 22%. They further claimed that the residual 3% would probably disappear if more complete data were available. Critics counter that this ignored the fact that the analysts had already thrown such cases into the category of \"insufficient information\", whereas both \"knowns\" and \"unknowns\" were deemed to have sufficient information to make a determination. Also the \"unknowns\" tended to represent the higher quality cases, q.e. reports that already had better information and witnesses.\n\nThe result of the monumental BMI study were echoed by a 1979 French GEPAN report which stated that about a quarter of over 1,600 closely studied UFO cases defied explanation, stating, in part, \"These cases … pose a real question.\" When GEPAN's successor SEPRA closed in 2004, 5800 cases had been analyzed, and the percentage of inexplicable unknowns had dropped to about 14%. The head of SEPRA, Dr. Jean-Jacques Velasco, found the evidence of extraterrestrial origins so convincing in these remaining unknowns, that he wrote a book about it in 2005.\n\nHynek was an associate member of the Robertson Panel, which recommended that UFOs needed debunking. A few years later, however, Hynek's opinions about UFOs changed, and he thought they represented an unsolved mystery deserving scientific scrutiny. As the only scientist involved with US Government UFO studies from the beginning to the end, he could offer a unique perspective on Projects Sign, Grudge, and Blue Book.\n\nAfter what he described as a promising beginning with a potential for scientific research, Hynek grew increasingly disenchanted with Blue Book during his tenure with the project, leveling accusations of indifference, incompetence, and of shoddy research on the part of Air Force personnel. Hynek notes that during its existence, critics dubbed Blue Book \"The Society for the Explanation of the Uninvestigated.\"\n\nBlue Book was headed by Ruppelt, then Captain Hardin, Captain Gregory, Major Friend, and finally Major Hector Quintanilla. Hynek had kind words only for Ruppelt and Friend. Of Ruppelt, he wrote \"In my contacts with him I found him to be honest and seriously puzzled about the whole phenomenon.\" Of Friend, he wrote \"Of all the officers I worked with in Blue Book, Colonel Friend earned my respect. Whatever private views he may have held, he was a total and practical realist, and sitting where he could see the scoreboard, he recognized the limitations of his office but conducted himself with dignity and a total lack of the bombast that characterized several of the other Blue Book heads.\"\n\nHe held Quintanilla in especially low regard: \"Quintanilla's method was simple: disregard any evidence that was counter to his hypothesis.\" Hynek wrote that during Air Force Major Hector Quintanilla's tenure as Blue Book's director, “the flag of the utter nonsense school was flying at its highest on the mast.” Hynek reported that Sergeant David Moody, one of Quintanilla's subordinates, “epitomized the conviction-before-trial method. Anything that he didn't understand or didn't like was immediately put into the psychological category, which meant ‘crackpot'.”\n\nHynek reported bitter exchanges with Moody when the latter refused to research UFO sightings thoroughly, describing Moody as “the master of the possible: possible balloon, possible aircraft, possible birds, which then became, by his own hand (and I argued with him violently at times) the probable.”\n\nProject Blue Book was the inspiration for the 1978–1979 TV show \"Project U.F.O.\" (which was known as \"Project Blue Book\" in some countries), which was supposedly based on Project Blue Book cases. However, the show frequently went against the actual project conclusions, suggesting on many occasions that some sightings were real extraterrestrials.\n\nProject Blue Book played a major role in the second season of the 1990–1991 TV series \"Twin Peaks\". Major Garland Briggs, an Air Force officer who worked on the program, approaches protagonist Dale Cooper and reveals that Cooper's name turned up in an otherwise nonsensical radio transmission intercepted by the Air Force, which inexplicably originated from the woods surrounding the town of Twin Peaks. As the season progresses, it is revealed that the source of the transmission is the transdimensional realm of the Black Lodge, inhabited by beings which feed on the human emotions of pain and suffering; it eventually comes out that Briggs worked with Cooper's rival, corrupt FBI agent Windom Earle, on Project Blue Book, and that the two men apparently uncovered evidence of the Lodge during the course of their work.\n\nEvery episode of the original \"Battlestar Galactica\" spin-off series \"Galactica 1980\" ended with a short statement about the U.S. Air Force's 1969 Project Blue Book findings that UFOs are not proven to exist and \"are not a threat to national security\".\n\nAn upcoming drama series slated to air on the History Channel late 2018, Project Blue Book is based on the true, top-secret investigations into Unidentified Flying Objects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43954795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43954795", "title": "Red rocket (shotgun slug)", "text": "Red rocket (shotgun slug)\n\nThe Red Rocket is a 3D printed solid shotgun projectile, or slug. made public around May 2013. It was printed using the Solidoodle 3 3-D printer. The slug was created by an American named Jeff Heeszel.\n\nThe printer used to create the bullet retails around $800 as of September 2014, and it took the printer about an hour to produce the slug. ABS thermoplastic material was used in the production of the slug. During testing, the slug fired from a Mossberg 590 shotgun, penetrated a 2×12 piece of pine wood, and created a hole in a wire reel.\n\nIt is considered as the first 3D printed bullet, according to the creator each plastic slug was 3D-printed but a small lead shot was then added to give the bullet weight and enable it to travel and pierce the target.\n\n"}
{"id": "620259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620259", "title": "Rhodesian Front", "text": "Rhodesian Front\n\nThe Rhodesian Front was a conservative political party in Rhodesia (or Southern Rhodesia) when the country was under white minority rule. Led first by Winston Field, and, from 1964, by Ian Smith, the Rhodesian Front was the successor to the Dominion Party, which was the main opposition party in Southern Rhodesia during the Federation period. The RF was formed in March 1962 by whites opposed to any immediate or short-term transition to black majority rule. It won power in the general election that December. In successive elections (in which 50 of the 66 parliamentary seats were reserved for A-Roll voters, who had to meet a higher standard of qualifications, increasing the proportion of white Africans who came under this roll) between 1964 and 1979, the RF was returned to office, with a large majority, with Smith as Prime Minister.\n\nThe RF had fifteen founding principles, which included the preservation of each racial group's right to maintain its own identity, the preservation of 'proper standards' through a policy of advancement through merit, the maintenance of the Land Apportionment Act, which formalised the racial imbalance in the ownership and distribution of land, opposition to compulsory racial integration, job protection for white workers, and maintenance of the government's right to provide separate amenities for different races.\n\nFollowing the elections leading to the country's independence in 1980, as the Republic of Zimbabwe, the RF won all 20 parliamentary seats reserved for whites in the power-sharing agreement that it had forged. On June 6, 1981, the party changed its name to the Republican Front, and on July 21, 1984 it became the Conservative Alliance of Zimbabwe. Eleven of its twenty parliamentarians defected over the following four years, but the party again won 15 of the 20 parliamentary seats reserved for whites in the 1985 election. In 1986, the CAZ opened its membership to Zimbabweans of all races. In 1987 the ruling government abolished all reserved seats for whites. When these were abolished many white MPs became independents or joined the ruling ZANU party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24364897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24364897", "title": "Richard Washburn Child", "text": "Richard Washburn Child\n\nRichard Washburn Child (August 5, 1881 – January 31, 1935) was an American author and diplomat.\n\nBorn in Worcester, Massachusetts, in 1881, Child went to Harvard University and Law School where he graduated in 1906 to become a business lawyer. Child founded the Progressive Republican League in Massachusetts, a forerunner of the Progressive Party. During World War I, he worked first as a correspondent in Europe and Russia, then for the U.S. Treasury, writing propaganda.\n\nIn 1916 he published a book, calling for U.S. investment in Russia. After the war he became editor of \"Collier's Weekly\" (1919). In 1920 he wrote campaign material for Presidential candidate Warren G. Harding, who rewarded him with the ambassadorship in Italy (from May 1921 to February 1924), where among other diplomatic activities he encouraged Benito Mussolini to start his March on Rome, as he records in his memoir \"A Diplomat looks at Europe\" (1925). He also promoted U.S. investment in Italy under Mussolini, especially from the J. P. Morgan bank. After his return to the United States, he became editor for \"The Saturday Evening Post\" and served on the National Crime Commission in 1925. In 1926 he divorced.\n\nIn 1928 he became a paid propaganda writer for Benito Mussolini, whose notes he ghostwrote and serialized as My Autobiography in \"The Saturday Evening Post\", and whose politics he praised in numerous articles for the Hearst press. Together with Thomas W. Lamont he rates as one of the most influential American promoters of Italian Fascism until his death in 1935. Child also wrote a number of crime stories and promotional tracts throughout his career. \n\nChild was a critic of spiritualism and skeptical of paranormal claims. In his article \"The Will to Believe\" he dismissed the medium Eusapia Palladino as a fraud.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43505", "title": "Ross Perot", "text": "Ross Perot\n\nHenry Ross Perot (; born June 27, 1930) is an American business magnate and former politician. As the founder of the successful Electronic Data Systems corporation, he became a billionaire. He ran an independent presidential campaign in 1992 and a third party campaign in 1996, establishing the Reform Party in the latter election. Both campaigns were among the strongest presidential showings by a third party or independent candidate in U.S. history.\n\nBorn in Texarkana, Texas, he became a salesman for IBM after serving in the United States Navy. In 1962, he founded Electronic Data Systems, a data processing service company. In 1984, General Motors bought a controlling interest in the company for $2.4 billion. Perot established Perot Systems in 1988 and was an angel investor for NeXT, a computer company founded by Steve Jobs after he left Apple. Perot also became heavily involved in the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue, arguing that hundreds of American servicemen were left behind in Southeast Asia after the Vietnam War. During President George H. W. Bush's tenure, Perot became increasingly active in politics and strongly opposed the Gulf War and ratification of the North American Free Trade Agreement.\n\nIn 1992, Perot announced his intention to run for president and advocated a balanced budget, an end to the outsourcing of jobs, and the enactment of electronic direct democracy. A June 1992 Gallup poll showed Perot leading a three-way race against President Bush and presumptive Democratic nominee Bill Clinton. Perot briefly withdrew from the race in July, but re-entered the race in early October after he qualified for all 50 state ballots. He chose Admiral James Stockdale as his running mate and appeared in the 1992 CPD debates with Bush and Clinton. In the election, Perot won 18.9% of the popular vote but did not win any electoral votes. He won support from across the ideological and partisan spectrum, but performed best among self-described moderates. Perot ran for president again in 1996, establishing the Reform Party as a vehicle for his campaign. He won 8.4% of the popular vote against President Clinton and Republican nominee Bob Dole.\n\nPerot did not seek public office again after 1996 and did not enter the 2000 Reform Party presidential primaries. He endorsed Republican George W. Bush over Reform nominee Pat Buchanan in the 2000 election and supported Republican Mitt Romney in 2008 and 2012. In 2009, Dell acquired Perot Systems for $3.9 billion. According to \"Forbes\", Perot was the 167th richest person in the United States in 2016.\n\nPerot was born in Texarkana, Texas, the son of Lula May Perot (née Ray) and Gabriel Ross Perot, a commodity broker specializing in cotton contracts. His patrilineal line traces back to an immigrant to French Louisiana in the 1740s. He attended a private school called Patty Hill. He graduated from Texas High School in Texarkana in 1947. One of Perot's childhood friends was Hayes McClerkin, who later became the Speaker of the Arkansas House of Representatives and a prominent lawyer in Texarkana, Arkansas.\n\nPerot joined the Boy Scouts of America and made Eagle Scout in 1942, after 13 months in the program. He is a recipient of the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award.\n\nFrom 1947 to 1949, he attended Texarkana Junior College, then entered the U.S. Naval Academy in 1949 and helped establish its honor system. Perot said his appointment notice to the academy—sent by telegram—was sent by W. Lee \"Pappy\" O'Daniel, Texas's 34th governor and former senator. Perot married Margot Birmingham of Greensburg, Pennsylvania, in 1956.\n\nAfter he left the Navy in 1957, Perot became a salesman for IBM. He quickly became a top employee (one year, he fulfilled his annual sales quota in a mere two weeks) and tried to pitch his ideas to supervisors, who largely ignored him. He left IBM in 1962 to found Electronic Data Systems (EDS) in Dallas, Texas, and courted large corporations for his data processing services. Perot was refused 77 times before he was given his first contract. EDS received lucrative contracts from the U.S. government in the 1960s, computerizing Medicare records. EDS went public in 1968 and the stock price rose from $16 a share to $160 within days. \"Fortune\" called Perot the \"fastest, richest Texan\" in a 1968 cover story. In 1984 General Motors bought controlling interest in EDS for $2.4 billion.\n\nIn 1974, Perot gained some press attention for being \"the biggest individual loser ever on the New York Stock Exchange\" when his EDS shares dropped $450 million in value in a single day in April 1970.\n\nJust prior to the 1979 Iranian Revolution, the government of Iran imprisoned two EDS employees in a contract dispute. Perot organized and sponsored their rescue. The rescue team was led by retired U.S. Army Special Forces Colonel Arthur D. \"Bull\" Simons. When the team was unable to find a way to extract the two prisoners, they decided to wait for a mob of pro-Ayatollah revolutionaries to storm the jail and free all 10,000 inmates, many of whom were political prisoners. The two prisoners then connected with the rescue team, and the team spirited them out of Iran via a risky border crossing into Turkey. The exploit was recounted in a book, \"On Wings of Eagles\" by Ken Follett, which became a best-seller. In the 1986 miniseries, Perot was portrayed by Richard Crenna.\n\nIn 1984, Perot bought a very early copy of Magna Carta, one of only a few to leave the United Kingdom. It was lent to the National Archives in Washington, D.C., where it was displayed alongside the Declaration of Independence and the United States Constitution. In 2007, it was sold by the Perot Foundation \"for medical research, for improving public education and for assisting wounded soldiers and their families.\" The document sold for US$21.3 million on Dec. 18, 2007, to David Rubenstein, managing director of the Carlyle Group, and is kept on display at the National Archives.\n\nAfter Steve Jobs lost the original power struggle at Apple and left to found NeXT, his angel investor was Perot, who invested over $20 million. Perot believed in Jobs and did not want to miss out, as he had with his chance to invest in Bill Gates's fledgling Microsoft.\n\nIn 1988, he founded Perot Systems Corporation, Inc. in Plano, Texas. His son, Ross Perot, Jr., eventually succeeded him as CEO. In September 2009, Perot Systems was acquired by Dell for $3.9 billion.\n\nPerot became heavily involved in the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue. He believed that hundreds of American servicemen were left behind in Southeast Asia at the end of the U.S. involvement in the war, and that government officials were covering up POW/MIA investigations to avoid revealing a drug-smuggling operation used to finance a secret war in Laos. Perot engaged in unauthorized back-channel discussions with Vietnamese officials in the late 1980s, which led to fractured relations between Perot and the Reagan and George H. W. Bush administrations. In 1990, Perot reached agreement with Vietnam's Foreign Ministry to become its business agent in the event that diplomatic relations were normalized. Perot also launched private investigations of, and attacks upon, U.S. Department of Defense official Richard Armitage.\nIn Florida in 1990, retired financial planner Jack Gargan funded a series of \"I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore\" (a reference to a famous quotation from the 1976 political and mass media satire movie, \"Network\") newspaper advertisements denouncing the U.S. Congress for voting for legislative pay raises at a time when average wages nationwide were not increasing. Gargan later founded \"Throw the Hypocritical Rascals Out\" (THRO), which Ross Perot supported.\n\nPerot did not support President George H. W. Bush, and vigorously opposed the United States' involvement in the 1990–1991 Persian Gulf War. He unsuccessfully urged Senators to vote against the war resolution, and began to consider his own presidential run.\n\nOn February 20, 1992, he appeared on CNN's \"Larry King Live\" and announced his intention to run as an independent if his supporters could get his name on the ballot in all 50 states. With such declared policies as balancing the federal budget, opposition to gun control, ending the outsourcing of jobs and enacting electronic direct democracy via \"electronic town halls,” he became a potential candidate and soon polled roughly even with the two major party candidates.\n\nPerot's candidacy received increasing media attention when the competitive phase of the primary season ended for the two major parties. With the insurgent candidacies of Republican Pat Buchanan and Democrat Jerry Brown winding down, Perot was the natural beneficiary of populist resentment toward establishment politicians. On May 25, 1992, he was featured on the cover of \"Time\" with the title \"Waiting for Perot\", an allusion to Samuel Beckett's play \"Waiting for Godot\".\n\nSeveral months before the Democratic and Republican conventions, Perot filled the vacuum of election news, as his supporters began petition drives to get him on the ballot in all 50 states. This sense of momentum was reinforced when Perot employed two savvy campaign managers in Democrat Hamilton Jordan and Republican Ed Rollins. In July, while Perot was pondering whether to run for office, his supporters established a campaign organization United We Stand America. Perot was late in making formal policy proposals, but most of what he did call for were intended to reduce the deficit, such as a gasoline tax increase and cutbacks to Social Security.\n\nIn June, Perot led a Gallup poll with 39% of the vote. By mid-July, the \"Washington Post\" reported that Perot's campaign managers were becoming increasingly disillusioned by his unwillingness to follow their advice to be more specific on issues, and his need to be in full control of operations with such tactics as forcing volunteers to sign loyalty oaths. Perot's poll numbers began to slip to 25%, and his advisers warned that if he continued to ignore them, he would fall into single digits. Co-manager Hamilton Jordan threatened to quit, and on July 15, Ed Rollins resigned after Perot fired advertisement specialist Hal Riney, who worked with Rollins on the Reagan campaign. Rollins would later claim that a member of the campaign accused him of being a Bush plant with ties to the CIA. Amid the chaos, Perot's support fell to 20%. The next day, Perot announced on \"Larry King Live\" that he would not seek the presidency. He explained that he did not want the House of Representatives to decide the election if the result caused the electoral college to be split. Perot eventually stated the reason was that he received threats that digitally altered photographs would be released by the Bush campaign to sabotage his daughter's wedding. Whatever his reasons for withdrawing, his reputation was badly damaged. Many of his supporters felt betrayed and public opinion polls subsequently showed a large negative view of Perot that was absent prior to his decision to end the campaign.\n\nIn September, he qualified for all 50 state ballots. On October 1, he announced his intention to re-enter the presidential race. He campaigned in 16 states and spent an estimated $12.3 million of his own money. Perot employed the innovative strategy of purchasing half-hour blocks of time on major networks for infomercial-type campaign advertisements; this advertising garnered more viewership than many sitcoms, with one Friday night program in October attracting 10.5 million viewers.\n\nAt one point in June, Perot led the polls with 39% (versus 31% for Bush and 25% for Clinton). Just prior to the debates, Perot received 7–9% support in nationwide polls. The debates likely played a significant role in his ultimate receipt of 19% of the popular vote. Although his answers during the debates were often general, many Democrats and Republicans conceded that Perot won at least the first debate. In the debate, he remarked:\n\nKeep in mind our Constitution predates the Industrial Revolution. Our founders did not know about electricity, the train, telephones, radio, television, automobiles, airplanes, rockets, nuclear weapons, satellites, or space exploration. There's a lot they didn't know about. It would be interesting to see what kind of document they'd draft today. Just keeping it frozen in time won't hack it.\nPerot denounced Congress for its inaction in his speech at the National Press Club in Washington, DC, on March 18, 1992. Perot said:\n\nIn the 1992 election, he received 18.9% of the popular vote, about 19,741,065 votes (but no electoral college votes), making him the most successful third-party presidential candidate in terms of the popular vote since Theodore Roosevelt in the 1912 election. Unlike Perot, however, some other third party candidates since Roosevelt have won electoral college votes. (Robert La Follette had 13 in 1924, Strom Thurmond had 39 in 1948, George Wallace had 46 in 1968 and John Hospers won one in 1972, albeit from a faithless elector). Compared with Thurmond and Wallace, who polled very strongly in a small number of states, Perot's vote was more evenly spread across the country. Perot managed to finish second in two states: In Maine, Perot received 30.44% of the vote to Bush's 30.39% (Clinton won Maine with 38.77%); in Utah, Perot received 27.34% of the vote to Clinton's 24.65% (Bush won Utah with 43.36%). Although Perot did not win a state, he received the most votes in some counties, including Trinity County, California.\n\nA detailed analysis of voting demographics revealed that Perot's support drew heavily from across the political spectrum, with 20% of his votes coming from self-described liberals, 27% from self-described conservatives, and 53% coming from self-described moderates. Economically, however, the majority of Perot voters (57%) were middle class, earning between $15,000 and $49,000 annually, with the bulk of the remainder drawing from the upper middle class (29% earning more than $50,000 annually). Exit polls also showed that Ross Perot drew 38% of his vote from Bush, and 38% of his vote from Clinton, though it's generally considered that he aided Clinton in defeating Bush.\n\nBased on his performance in the popular vote in 1992, Perot was entitled to receive federal election funding for 1996. Perot remained in the public eye after the election and championed opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), urging voters to listen for the \"giant sucking sound\" of American jobs heading south to Mexico should NAFTA be ratified.\n\nPerot tried to keep his movement alive through the mid-1990s, continuing to speak about the increasing national debt. He was a prominent campaigner against the NAFTA, and even debated with then Vice President Al Gore on the issue on \"Larry King Live\". Perot's behavior during the debate was a source of mirth thereafter, including his repeated pleas to \"let me finish\" in his southern drawl. The debate was seen by many as effectively ending Perot's political career. Support for NAFTA went from 34% to 57%.\n\nIn 1995, he founded the Reform Party and won their presidential nomination for the 1996 election. His vice presidential running mate was Pat Choate. Because of the ballot access laws, he had to run as an Independent on many state ballots. Perot received 8% of the popular vote in 1996, lower than in the 1992 race, but still an unusually successful third-party showing by U.S. standards. He spent much less of his own money in this race than he had four years before, and also allowed other people to contribute to his campaign, unlike his prior race. One common explanation for the decline was Perot's exclusion from the presidential debates, based on the preferences of the Democratic and Republican party candidates. Jamin B. Raskin of \"Open Debates\" filed a lawsuit about Perot's exclusion years later.\n\nLater in the 1990s, Perot's detractors accused him of not allowing the Reform Party to develop into a genuine national political party, but rather using it as a vehicle to promote himself. They cited as evidence the control of party offices by operatives from his presidential campaigns. Perot did not give an endorsement during Jesse Ventura's run for governor of Minnesota in the 1998 election, and this became suspicious to detractors when he made fun of Ventura at a conference after Ventura had a falling out with the press. The party leadership grew in tighter opposition to groups supporting Ventura and Jack Gargan. Evidence of this was demonstrated when Gargan was officially removed as Reform Party chairman by the Reform Party National Committee.\n\nIn the 2000 presidential election, Perot refused to become openly involved with the internal Reform Party dispute between supporters of Pat Buchanan and John Hagelin. Perot was reportedly unhappy with what he saw as the disintegration of the party, as well as his own portrayal in the press; thus, he chose to remain quiet. He appeared on \"Larry King Live\" four days before the election and endorsed George W. Bush for president. Despite his earlier opposition to NAFTA, Perot remained largely silent about expanded use of guest-worker visas in the United States, with Buchanan supporters attributing this silence to his corporate reliance on foreign workers. Some state parties affiliated with the new (Buchananite) America First Party.\nSince then, Perot has been largely silent on political issues, refusing to answer most questions from the press. When interviewed, he usually remains on the subject of his business career and refuses to answer specific questions on politics, candidates, or his past activities.\n\nOne exception to this came in 2005, when he was asked to testify before the Texas Legislature in support of proposals to extend technology to students, including making laptops available to them. He also supported changing the process of buying textbooks by making e-books available and by allowing schools to buy books at the local level instead of going through the state. In an April 2005 interview, Perot expressed concern about the state of progress on issues that he had raised in his presidential runs.\n\nTwo further exceptions came with his endorsements in the 2008 and 2012 elections. In January 2008, Perot publicly came out against Republican candidate John McCain and endorsed Mitt Romney for president. He also announced that he would soon be launching a new website with updated economic graphs and charts. In June 2008, this blog launched, focusing on entitlements (Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security), the U.S. national debt, and related issues. In 2012, Perot endorsed Romney for president again. Perot did not give any endorsements for the 2016 election.\n\nDuring Perot's political campaigns, he spoke less on social issues and instead focused on the fiscal issues of the time. Perot did not fit the typical stereotype of a conservative southerner, his views were seen as liberal and usually focused on his economic policy to keep support during his campaigns and gain support from both Democrats and Republican voters from his home state of Texas. Perot is pro-choice, supports gay rights, stricter gun controls such as an assault rifle ban and increased research in AIDS .\n\nSince 1992, Perot was a pro-choice activist, and a strong supporter of Planned Parenthood. He has stated poorer women in particular should have access to abortions via federal funding. Since 2000, he has been pro-choice reluctantly.\n\nPerot believes tax should be increased on the wealthy, while spending should be cut to help pay off the national debt. Perot also believes capital gains tax should be increased, while giving tax breaks to those starting new businesses.\n\nIn his book, Perot showed support for giving tax cuts for SME's, as opposed to larger corporations. Additionally, Perot has supported a balanced budget amendment, stating: \"spending should not exceed revenue for 27 consecutive years.\" On trade, Perot has stated that there is a trade deficit between Mexico and the U.S. and a loss of manufacturing jobs which he believes is caused by NAFTA. His position on Free Trade and NAFTA became his defining campaign principles of both the 1992 and 1996 presidential elections.\nRoss Perot argued:\nWe have got to stop sending jobs overseas. It's pretty simple: If you're paying $12, $13, $14 an hour for factory workers and you can move your factory South of the border, pay a dollar an hour for labor, ... have no health care—that's the most expensive single element in making a car— have no environmental controls, no pollution controls and no retirement, and you don't care about anything but making money, there will be a giant sucking sound going south.\nPerot and his wife Margot (née Birmingham) have five children (Ross Jr., Nancy, Suzanne, Carolyn, and Katherine). , the Perots had 16 grandchildren.\n\nWith an estimated net worth of about US$4.1 billion in 2017, he is ranked by \"Forbes\" as the 167th-richest person in the United States.\n\n\nUnited States presidential election, 1992\n\nUnited States presidential election, 1996\n\n\n"}
{"id": "425720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425720", "title": "Slovenian Democratic Party", "text": "Slovenian Democratic Party\n\nThe Slovenian Democratic Party (, SDS), formerly the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia (, SSS), is a liberal-conservative political party in Slovenia. Led by Janez Janša, the SDS is a member of the European People's Party (EPP), Centrist Democrat International and International Democrat Union.\n\nThe Slovenian Democratic Party has developed from the merger of two distinct political parties, being the legal successor of both of the Social Democratic Union of Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Union, two of the most influential parties of the Democratic Opposition of Slovenia—also known as the DEMOS coalition—which defeated the former Communist Party of Slovenia in the first open Slovenian election on April 1990, and carried out the democratization of Slovenia and its secession from Yugoslavia. The Social Democratic Union of Slovenia had emerged from an independent, anti-Communist trade union movement in the late 1980s. Its first president was the trade union leader France Tomšič, who in December 1987 organized the first successful large-scale workers strike in Communist Slovenia, following the example of Lech Wałęsa's Solidarity movement in Poland. Tomšič however resigned soon after the founding of the party, endorsing the leadership of Jože Pučnik, a former dissident who had been forced to emigrate to Germany in the 1960s. Under Pučnik's leadership, The Social Democratic Union of Slovenia gradually developed into a moderate social-democratic party, which combined the plea for a social market economy with the support of a welfare state based on a German, Austrian and Scandinavian social model.\n\nThe Slovenian Democratic Union, on the other hand, was founded in January 1989, as opposition to the Communist Party of Slovenia, emphasizing establishment of the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental political freedoms, respect for minority rights, and the inclusion of Slovenia in the Euro-Atlantic integrations (the European Union and NATO). It functioned as a broad but somehow fragmented coalition of several groups with different liberal, social-liberal and civic nationalist agendas.\n\nIn 1992, the Slovenian Democratic Union split into two parties: the social-liberal wing established the Democratic Party (DSS), while the conservative faction founded the National Democratic Party (NDS). Members who did not join one of these two parties decided to join the Social Democratic Party led by Jože Pučnik. Although the Social Democratic Party suffered a clear defeat in the 1992 election, barely securing its entry in the Parliament, it formed a coalition with the winning Liberal Democracy of Slovenia (LDS) and entered the cabinet of Janez Drnovšek.\n\nIn 1995, the National Democratic Party joined the party, which thus became one of the legal successors of the Slovenian Democratic Union.\n\nAfter the year 2000, the party applied for membership in the European People's Party (EPP), adopting a liberal economic policy and later pro-austerity measures upon the late-2000 economic crisis, while retaining an atlantist foreign policy.\n\nUpon being dismissed by Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek because of being involved in the attempts of the military interfering in civilian justice, the party's leader became Janez Janša, while Jože Pučnik resigned and became the honorary president of the party (a function he held until his death in January 2003). Janša was subsequently cleared, following an inquiry. The party unconditionally supported its new leader and decided to leave the coalition and stayed in opposition for the next ten years (except for a short period in 2000, when it entered a short-lived centre-right government led by Andrej Bajuk), in the meantime gaining in popularity among – as described by one of its former supporters, Peter Jambrek – \"lower, frustrated social strata\".\n\nThe party's radical populism, nationalistic and xenophobic rhetoric was noticed also by political scientists. Moreover, the local Slovenian Catholic Church supported it more than any other Slovenian political party. Even though not a nominally Christian party, the local church has stood fully and unconditionally behind it.\n\nOn 3 October 2004, SDS won the 2004 parliamentary election with 29.1% of the popular vote and 29 out of 88 seats. SDS then formed a coalition with New Slovenia (NSi), the Slovenian People's Party (SLS), and Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia (DeSUS), holding a total of 49 parliamentary seats (out of 90).\n\nThe SDS-led government passed several pro-business measures, initiated the regionalisation of the country by giving more power to local governments, and, in order to please its coalition party, DeSUS - introduced economically non-sustainable changes in the pension system.\n\nSDS has been accused of catering to the interests of the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church in exchange for political support. Nevertheless, the Church maintained a critical attitude towards some of the party's positions (the SDS-led Government has assumed a favourable attitude towards gambling tourism, stem cell research and passed a law recognizing same-sex civil unions, all opposed by the Roman Catholic Church).\n\nThe government introduced measures to supervise, and to curtail the powers of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. The measures were strongly rebuked by the opposition and segments of the press as an attempt to discredit the secret intelligence service and cast a negative shadow on the policies of previous governments.\n\nThe first SDS government was the target of widespread criticism due to allegations of meddling in the independence of the press. The first SDS government has been accused of politicising the independent press by appointing political allies to leadership and journalist positioned in the state Slovenian Press Agency, daily newspaper Delo, regional newspaper Primorske novice, and public media and broadcasting organisation, RTV Slovenia. State-owned companies also ceased purchasing adverts in the daily newspaper Dnevnik and weekly political magazine Mladina, two publications critical of the administration. By changing the laws governing the administration of the public broadcaster RTV Slovenia, the government enabled increased political control of the state media organisation's editorial board and its board of directors by increasing the number of board members appointed by the government. The law faced a referendum challenge, but was approved by a tight margin as it also promised to lower compulsory contributions for the broadcaster's funding. In 2007, over five hundred journalists launched a petition against political pressures on the media. The petition accused premier Janša of limiting press freedom in particular, but was aimed against all infringements against press freedom by either government, political actors in general, or media company owners. The International Press Institute voiced support for the petition and called on the government to create an independent body to investigate the claims of media influence.\n\nSDS rejected accusations of impropriety, claiming the media was in fact controlled by leftist opposition groups.\n\nThe first Cabinet of Janez Janša oversaw a period of rapid economic growth. GDP grew by nearly 5% between 2004 and 2006, reaching nearly 7% growth in 2007, making it the fastest-growing eurozone member for that year. The economic boom, however, was highly dependent on private debt, particularly corporate debt.\n\nThe Ministry of Finance, headed by Andrej Bajuk, passed comprehensive tax reform, lowering corporate taxes and taxes on juridical persons, and the tax burden on individual incomes, flattening income tax margin progression, and simplifying the tax code. It oversaw the implementation of the Euro, privatisation of state-owned NKBM bank, lowering public expenditure, and increasing budget surpluses.\n\nIn the 2008 parliamentary election (held on 21 September 2008) narrowly lost against the Social Democrats, until then the main opposition party. It also lost one seat in Slovenian Parliament, falling to 28.\n\nWith the election of the Social Democrat leader Borut Pahor as Prime Minister of Slovenia, the Slovenian Democratic Party officially declared it would stay in opposition and form a shadow cabinet. The shadow government was formed in late December 2008, and it includes several independent members as well as members from other conservative parties.\n\nIn the 2009 European election, the SDS was the most popular party in Slovenia with 26.9% of votes, more than eight points ahead of the second-most popular party, the ruling Social Democrats.\n\nIn 2009, the MP Franc Pukšič left the Slovenian Democratic Party and joined the Slovenian People's Party; the SDS parliamentary group was thus reduced from 28 to 27 MPs.\n\nIn the 2011 snap parliamentary election (held on 4 December after the centre-left governing coalition collapsed due to internal conflict and inefficacy in passing meaningful economic reforms), SDS won 26.19% of the vote, gaining 26 seats in the National Assembly, thus making SDS the second-largest parliamentary party after the newly formed centre-left party, Positive Slovenia (PS) (headed by Ljubljana mayor Zoran Janković), which won 28 MPs (28.5% of the total). However, SDS succeeded in forming a ruling four-party coalition government (which included the Civic List, New Slovenia, Slovenian People's Party, and Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia) (holding a combined total of 50 out of 90 parliamentary seats) some two months after the election after PS failed to form a coalition with a parliamentary majority. The coalition took power amid an alarming economic downturn (European debt crisis), the worst in the independent country's history. The country's economic woes were further exacerbated by credit agencies' lowering of Slovenia's credit rating amid the political tumult.\n\nThe coalition, headed by SDS, undertook drastic economic and financial reforms in an attempt to halt the economic downturn. Finance Minister Janez Šuštaršič pledged to speed up privatisation of state enterprises, cut public spending, and reduce budget shortfalls. Janša additionally pledged to cut taxes, remove regulations, lower the deficit, and raise the retirement age. The coalition passed laws transferring all state-owned enterprises into a single state holding company to accelerate privatisation efforts, and created a bad bank that would take on non-performing loans from the bad debt-ridden state-owned banks. It intended to cut profit and income taxes to boost the economy, and enact constitutional changes demanding balance budgets. It also passed sweeping and highly contentious austerity measures (the Law of Public Finance Balance (Slovene: \"Zakon o uravnovešenju javnih financ (ZUJF)\")), and reportedly planned further cuts to state spending. The ZUJF fiscal consolidation law included provisions lowering pensions (widely opposed by the public), cutting wages for public sector employees, reducing education funding, social transfers and benefits. The draft of the law sparked a public sector general strike, and the law faced the possibility of a referendum.\n\nThe SDS-led government proved impotent in stemming the economic troubles facing the nation. Despite the momentous reforms efforts, the economic troubles intensified, resulting in increasing levels of unemployment, plunging living standards, a fall in domestic spending, and large budget deficits. The fall in domestic demand, coupled with falling exports, resulted in a double dip recession. A later report alleges that the sharp downturn in Slovenian economic outlook was a result of Janša's overdramatic public statements regarding the economic fitness of the nation. Janša reportedly made such ominous claims for political purposes as means of solidifying political power and as a negotiating strategy to strengthen his hand during negotiations with public sector unions. The PM's eerie pronouncements were taken at face value by foreign observers, however, creating a self-fulfilling feedback loop where gloomy statements made by top Slovene officials created more panic and dismay in the foreign press and various organisations, and vice versa, resulting in falling credit ratings and asset prices, and excessive capital injections/bailouts with funds borrowed at excessively high interest rates.\n\nJanša also faced graft charges even before ascending to the premiership in 2012. He was one of the defendants being tried for corruption as result of a 2006 bribery scandal involving charges of accepting kickbacks to fund his party's electoral campaign.\n\nIn late 2012, protests began to take place in Slovenia's second largest city, Maribor, against its mayor and SDS ally, Franc Kangler, who was being investigated due to allegations of corruption. The protests soon picked up momentum and spread across the country, becoming the largest in the independent republic's history. Protestors' main grievances were the harsh austerity measures imposed by the ruling government, looming sale-offs of state enterprises, and allegations of widespread corruption among the ruling elite. The protests also saw the worst violence in the nation's history as an independent state, with small groups of young, violent extremists - likely members of far-right and hooligan groups - clashing with police. In early 2013, the instability and public resentment was compounded after the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption revealed both PM Janez Janša and the leader of the largest opposition party (PS), Zoran Janković, violated anti-corruption laws by failing to report or account for assets in their possession and received income/payments. Media reports alleging Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency was \"infiltrated\" by members of SDS also surfaced. Amid continuing anti-government protests, a strike of public sector workers, and the lowest public opinion ratings of any government in the nation's history, coalition partners began to depart from the coalition. The government finally collapsed after a vote of no confidence, and a PS consensus candidate, Alenka Bratušek, was appointed as PM despite continuing protests demanding a snap election.\n\nOn 20 March 2013, the second Janša cabinet was replaced by the cabinet of Alenka Bratušek, a four-party centre-left coalition led by the new leader of Positive Slovenia, Alenka Bratušek.\n\nIn June 2013, Janša was convicted in the Patria case, but appealed the verdict. In April 2014, the Higher Court upheld the two-year jail sentence passed on Janez Janša as result of the bribery conviction. In June of that year, Janša began serving out his sentence, 26 years after his imprisonment for leaking military secrets as a whistle-blower (his imprisonment, trial, and public reaction were a milestone in the Slovenian path to independence). Despite his imprisonment, Janša stood as candidate for MP.\n\nIn the May 2014 European Parliament election, SDS came in first place nationally, garnering 24.78% of the vote, and winning three MEP seats (out of eight allocated for Slovenia).\n\nThe party received 20.69% of the vote in the snap Slovenian parliamentary election held on 13 July 2014, and won 21 seats in parliament. The party remained in opposition, this time to the cabinet of Miro Cerar. Janez Janša was reelected as MP despite being imprisoned. The Constitutional Court decided not to deprive Janša of his MP mandate, and Janša was allowed leave while carrying out his political functions. The Constitutional Court suspended Janša's jail sentence in December, pending the ruling regarding his appeal of the Patria verdict. The Constitutional Court decided to annul the Higher Court's decision in April 2015, returning it to the lower courts for retrial. In September of the same year, the statute of limitations of the Patria case expired.\n\nSDS representatives expressed the belief that the trial was politically motivated and that the imprisonment of the party frontman unfairly hindered their election efforts, declaring the elections illegitimate and \"stolen\", and demanded fresh elections. In 2018, SDS sued the state for alleged financial damages the party incurred due to the alleged election \"theft\".\n\nWith a campaign largely based on anti-immigration populist rhetoric, SDS topped public opinion polls heading into the 2018 parliamentary election. The incendiary electoral campaign sparked a rally under the title \"Without Fear — Against the Politics of Hatred\", with some 2,000-3,000 heart-shaped balloon-carrying marchers in attendance.\n\nDuring the 2018 electoral campaign, SDS also begun to send postable questionnaires (\"voter consults\") to Slovene households. The questionnaires contained loaded questions and proposals (e.g. \"... Do you support SDS's proposal that the healthcare system be set in order?\"). The effort was apparently part of the party's electoral campaign, and likely fashioned on Hungarian \"national consultations\", which the country's ruling party has practiced for years.\n\nSDS once again emerged as winner in the 2018 parliamentary election, garnering 24.92% of the vote and winning 25 MP seats. President Borut Pahor announced he would afford Janša the mandate to form a coalition government, however, it appeared unlikely he would be successful in doing so, most parties having declared they do not intend to enter into a coalition with SDS. Janša declared he would be willing to relinquish his post as PM designate to some other SDS MP if this would ease tensions and enable SDS to form a coalition government. The second largest party, the List of Marjan Šarec, said it had already started informal talks to form a coalition excluding SDS days after the election. Some two weeks after the 2018 election, Janša again met with Hungarian PM Orban during a private visit in Budapest. Janša and Orban also held a conference call with US president Donald Trump during the meeting.\n\nIn July 2015 Slovenian Democratic Party, as the biggest party of the official opposition, formed The Shadow Cabinet, which is actually a party structure. Members of the Shadow Cabinet are the following:\n\nDuring the European migrant crisis, SDS sharply intensified its nationalist populist rhetoric. The party came out in opposition of migrant quotas and advocated shifting resources from non-governmental organisations to increase security spending. Janša furthermore lambasted the \"degenerate left\". The party's heated rhetoric and allegations of corrupt practices have led \"to concerns among international observers about the direction of Slovenia, which is generally regarded as a regional success story\" as SDS topped opinion polls heading into the 2018 parliamentary election.\n\nThe party has also co-opted US President Donald Trump's populist rhetoric, with Janša and the party frequently echoing Trump's catchphrases \"drain the swamp\", \"deep state\", and \"fake news\". The party has also proposed requiring that for each new regulation, two existing regulations must be repealed, a proposal notably advocated for and enacted by Trump. Janša has also used the phrase \"Slovenia first\" on several occasions.\n\nSDS has been described as broadly pro-market, and its economic policies have been characterised as neoliberal. SDS advocates for lower taxes and speeding up privatisation efforts.\n\nSDS introduced legislation allowing for same-sex civil unions while in government, but has opposed recognition of same-sex marriages.\n\nSDS advocates for the introduction of educational programs that would foster patriotism \"from kindergarten through high school\". The party supports full public financing of private school compulsory programs.\n\nIn early 2016, SDS proposed the establishment of a national guard composed of some 25,000 \"patriotic\" volunteers. The guard would replace all current reserve formations of the Slovene armed forces, would be under direct command of the general staff, and would be mobilised during natural disasters or during \"altered national security states\" (like the European refugee crisis, which was ongoing at the time). Both sexes could enlist. MP Žan Mahnič stated the establishment of the formation was a priority of the party's electoral platform. The proposal was prompted by worsening global national security prospects, in part due to the migrant crisis, a SDS representative said. Government representatives argued that such a formation is unnecessary as the current reserve formations are sufficient.\n\nSDS advocates for trials to be open to the public (except in special circumstances).\n\nSDS has long advocated for a change in the Slovene parliamentary electoral system, namely the shift from the current proportional electoral system to two-round plurality voting. SDS argues this would result in more stable and effective governments.\n\nSDS supports citizens' legal right to bear arms, and has come out in opposition to further restrictions. It strongly opposed new EU regulation of firearms which the European Commission moved to pass after the 2015 Paris terrorist attacks.\n\nSDS argues the current text to the Slovene national anthem—the 7th stanza of France Prešeren's A Toast (\"Blessed be all nations/Which yearn to see the light of day/When where'er the Sun doth wander/The lands' strife shall be cast away/And when free every kinsman will be/Not fiends, only neighbours in foreigners we'll see!\")—is \"too internationalistic, and insufficiently patriotic\", and advocates other stanzas from Prešeren's poem be added as text to the official anthem. The party also advocates banning \"all public expression of ideas through use of totalitarian symbols\" and \"all public displays of affection for totalitarian regimes\". The party has denied accusations that it is merely attempting to outlaw the red star, which was the symbol of the Slovene Partisans during WWII, and is still often used in the Slovenian public sphere, including as a symbol/logo of political and parliamentary parties. The proposed law would not, on the other hand, ban wearing Nazi uniforms in public or displaying symbols associated with the Nazi-aligned anti-Partisan Slovene Home Guard.\n\nThe party is pro-European, but staunchly anti-immigration and strongly opposed to EU asylum quotas.\n\nPerhaps the most peculiar aspect of SDS ideology are the unique beliefs and rhetoric frequently employed by members of the party. The central tenet of the party's view regarding the country's political situation is that a sinister clique composed mostly of leftist former communist party officials has retained significant control over the economic, financial, political, social, judicial, and journalistic aspects of Slovenian public life. Some of the beliefs and language used are also shared by other right-wing populist political actors, or have entered into the mainstream political discourse.\n\nSDS members and affiliates frequently employ particular phrases and concepts to represent their world-view, most notably:\n\nSome SDS members and functionaries have also been known to express other fringe beliefs. Slovene philosopher Slavoj Žižek, writing about the beliefs associated with the party while commenting on the 2018 parliamentary election results, quotes Bernard Brščič, characterising him as one of the party's \"main ideologists\". Brščič, writing in the SDS party publication, Demokracija, stated that Hungarian billionaire philanthropist George Soros (who is of Jewish descent) is \"one of the most depraved and dangerous people of our time\" as he is facilitating the \"invasion of the negroid and Semitic hordes and thereby for the twilight of the EU … as a typical talmudo-Zionist, he is a deadly enemy of the Western civilisation, nation state and white, European man.\" Continuing, Brščič writes that Soros is building a \"rainbow coalition composed of social marginals like faggots, feminists, Muslims and work-hating cultural Marxists\" to perform \"a deconstruction of the nation-state, and transform EU into a multicultural dystopia of the United States of Europe.\"\n\nBrščič has also caused controversy by denying the Holocaust in a TV appearance, drawing condemnation of the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. Brščič, speaking as a guest on Nova24TV, described the \"alleged\" Holocaust as a Jewish ploy intended to cause collective guilt so that a \"multicultural dystopia\" could be established. After widespread condemnation in the public sphere, Nova24TV web portal published two articles labeling the criticism as a \"pogrom\" against Brščič and claiming WWII was a ploy by Jewish bankers to help facilitate the establishment of a Jewish state by martyring fellow Jews. Brščič has also expressed a multitude of other questionable views, and has called for a replacement of the Slovenian \"vaseline right with an alternative, alt-right right\". Bernard Brščič is an economist and a former professor of economics at the Ljubljana School of Economics, a former state secretary of the Second Janša Cabinet, president of the board of the Jože Pučnik Institute, and one of the key supporters of SDS. Brščič is a frequent commentator and columnist, particularly in SDS-affiliated publications. He also wrote the foreword to \"Manifesto for the Homeland\", a book published by the Slovene branch of the alt-right Identitarian movement (the book was published by SDS-affiliated \"Nova obzorja\" publishing company).\n\nSDS MP Branko Grims, speaking to a gathering of a patriotic ultranationalist group in early 2018, said \"Now is the era of Trump. He is the greatest thorn in the foot of the globalists, who control the US mechanisms, with Soros at the helm. Soros is the symbol of this. But there's also the Rothschilds and many other wealthiest families of financial speculators.\" SDS MP Marijan Pojbič, in a 2017 Statehood Day address on Facebook, called for \"No more mayors that aren't real Slovenes, and even fewer national politicians who aren't real Slovenes by birth.\"\n\nAfter the 2011 parliamentary elections, which saw the victory of Ljubljana mayor Zoran Janković (who is of Serbian descent) and his party, a contribution published on the official SDS webpage by a \"Tomaž Majer\" caused considerable public outrage. Majer states that Janković was elected by \"well-disciplined new citizens\" living in \"high-rise neighbourhoods\", tracksuit-clad voters (in Slovenia, a common stereotype of immigrés from Southern republics) with foreign accents arriving at polling places in groups holding notes with instructions on who to vote for. These \"new citizens\" were allegedly mobilised by being admonished their citizenship will be revoked if \"the right\" is elected. Majer further states that one of his acquaintances (who is of Bosnian descent) was even offered monetary reward to vote for Janković. Majer also claims that the roughly 1/3 of Janković voters of Slovenian descent were ordered to vote for PS by Milan Kučan and Janez Stanovnik. Several media organisations attempted to identify the author, but were unsuccessful. It has been speculated that the real author of the text was in fact Janez Janša, based on similar known past statements (specifically, his 1993 commentary on the poor electoral performance of SDS during the 1992 elections). In the wake of the 2011 election, Janša and several other SDS MPs and candidates expressed similar but somewhat toned-down nationalistic sentiments while commenting on the election and its winner. The public reaction culminated in a \"March of the Tracksuits\", a rally where participants attended clothed in tracksuits to protest against division and intolerance.\n\nLucija Šikovec Ušaj, a prominent Slovene lawyer, SDS MP candidate during the 2018 parliamentary election, and regular columnist on SDS-affiliated Nova24TV has on multiple occasions voiced opinions favourable to neo-nazis through her tweets. After neo-nazis disrupted a controversial theatre performance by a Slovene theatre director in the Czech Republic in May 2018, Ušaj declared that \"Lately, neonazis have more brains and taste than anyone else!\" After propaganda posters bearing Nazi imagery (including Gothic script, and a swastika overlaid over the municipality seal) and the message \"For family, For country, For race\" were posted across Velenje in June 2018, Ušaj mused \"What's wrong with being for family, country, and race?\", going on to explain \"... regarding race, everyone probably supports one's own\" and \"migrants are not of my race\". She also retweeted an animated image of Ralph Fiennes shooting a sniper rifle (cut from a scene from the film \"Schindler's List\", where Fiennes portrays a concentration camp commandant shooting internees for sport) in July 2018, writing \"What a man...\". Additionally, Ušaj retweeted an anti-feminist tweet by \"Nazi sympathizer\" Mark Collett in June 2018, with Ušaj's retweet later also retweeted by Janša.\n\nAs of 2013, SDS membership numbered some 30,000 strong, more than any other political party in Slovenia. Slovenian Democratic Youth (, SDM) is the independent and autonomous youth wing of the party.\n\nThe party is affiliated with the Jože Pučnik Institute, the major liberal-conservative think tank in Slovenia. It is also closely affiliated with the civic platform Rally for the Republic (). Committee 2014 (Slovene: \"Odbor 2014\") is a civic organisation that was established to protest and demand the overturn of the corruption convictions in the Patria case, the freeing of SDS leader Janez Janša from prison (sentence resuling from the conviction), and the \"actual implementation of the rule of law, human rights, basic freedoms, and establishment of a democratic society\". Committee 2014 held regular protests in front of the Higher Court building in Ljubljana. The Alliance for the Values of Slovene Independence (Slovene: \"Združenje za vrednote Slovenske osamosvojitve\", VSO) is a patriotic veteran non-governmental organisation intended to commemorate the values of the Slovenian independence movement. VSO leadership consists of prominent SDS members and associates. The organisation holds public speaking events, commemorations, and is engaged in other activities as well.\n\nSDS has seen some support from the Slovene Catholic Church. The party is supported by and closely affiliated with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (Fidesz).\n\nSDS is also affiliated with several current and past publications, including its de facto party publication, Demokracija, and tabloid Škandal24 (both owned by \"Nova Obzorja\" (English: \"New Horizonts\") publishing company, which is in turn jointly owned by SDS and a Hungarian publishing company with close ties to Hungary's ruling party, Fidesz). The publishing company has profited from providing literature to, and advising the SDS parliamentary group/SDS MPs (activities for which parliamentary groups receive state funds), and has also benefited financially from doing business with government agencies, which were particularly bountiful while SDS was in government. Nova24TV, a media conglomerate consisting of a television channel and online news portal, was established by SDS MPs and members, and party sympathisers, and later also received financial injections from Hungarian Fidesz-affiliated companies. Additionally, the SDS-friendly political web portal Politikis is also owned and managed by a close SDS associate. Slovenski tednik and Ekspres, free newspapers distributed in the run-up to the 2008 parliamentary election, were also later found to have been directly linked to SDS and its electoral efforts. As with Slovenski tednik and Ekspres, Škandal24 announced it will cease print publication the day after the 2018 parliamentary election, only continuing as an online publication.\n\nThe party enjoys strong support in some Slovene conservative and classical liberal intellectual circles. Public figures who have publicly voiced support for SDS or affiliated themselves with the party include economist Ljubo Sirc (joined the party in 2010), philosopher Ivan Urbančič, historians Vasko Simoniti and Alenka Puhar, writer and essayist Drago Jančar, theologian and philosopher Janez Juhant, and poet Tone Kuntner. Public supporters of the party also include sportsmen Miran Pavlin, and Katja Koren, pop singer Marta Zore, designer and cartoonist Miki Muster, and actor Roman Končar.\n\nIn 2008, SDS was found to have falsely attributed \"supporter status\" to many prominent Slovenes on its webpage. The party sent a request to comment on the ruling government for its party newspaper to numerous notable public figures. Though they were never asked whether they support the party or informed they will be listed as supporters, SDS nevertheless listed them as such.\n\nFormer supporters or affiliated individuals, now party critics and dissidents, include one of the fathers of the current Slovenian Constitution, Peter Jambrek, the former chairman of Rally for the Republic and Civic List party leader Gregor Virant, and liberal economist Jože P. Damijan. Miha Brejc became \"persona non grata\" after his son-in-law Gregor Virant distanced himself from Janša and established the Civic List. Former public supporters also include sportsman Miran Pavlin.\n\nSDS has been criticised for alleged links to a neo-Nazi extremist group; the Slovene branch of Blood & Honour. The journalist who uncovered the links (Anuška Delić) was charged with leaking confidential information. The state intelligence agency, SOVA, headed by an SDS appointee at the time of the indictment, inadvertently confirmed allegations made by Delić by stating that the information revealed in the reports was consistent with findings of an ongoing investigation into the activities of the violent extremist group. SOVA argued that the information revealed in the reports could not have been obtained by any other means than by gaining access to information collected during the agency's covert investigations, and that the publication disrupted its efforts to monitor the group by alerting B & H of the monitoring efforts. Delić alleged the charges were \"politically motivated\".\n\nSome Blood & Honour members were allegedly also members of SDS, and formally met with SDS MP Branko Grims. The group (the members of which allegedly received training by members of the Slovenian armed forces on an army training area, borrowed army weaponry (a rocket launcher), attempted to purchase handguns, and were in direct correspondence with Anders Breivik by both mail and e-mail, with multiple B & H members receiving his manifesto before Breivik's killing spree) was allegedly intimately implicated in orchestrating the violent riots which took place amid the 2012–13 Slovenian protests. The organised group of violent agitators that disrupted a major protest in Ljubljana was also suspected of having been trained, hired, and compensated, possibly by a political party, according to unofficial sources within the police.\n\nMore recently, SDS has also fostered close ties with Generation Identity Slovenia, the Slovenian chapter of the far-right Identitarian movement organisations. In August 2018, the party's publishing company, New Horizons, anonymously published the Slovene Identitarians' alt-right book, \"Manifesto for the Homeland\". The book was also promoted by SDS-affiliated media organisations and individuals, including SDS leader Janez Janša, with SDS MP Žan Mahnič even going so far as to post on Twitter a photo of the book taken from his parliamentary seat, with the floor of the parliamentary chamber in the background.\n\nThe party has been accused of political self-dealing and nepotism, appointing relatives, allies, and friends to government (and other) positions. Many close relatives of prominent SDS members have found employment in the Slovenian and European parliaments, high ranking public sector positions, and state-owned companies (some despite not meeting the official job requirements).\n\nSDS has been accused of political firings and replacements in, and selective financing of many institutions under the public sphere, and creating an environment where politisation of the public workplace was permissible and pervasive while in power.\n\nSDS leader Janez Janša has continuously served as party head since 1993 without a single other contender for the post. Party members are extremely loyal to Janša, and it has often been noted that the party appears to resemble a cult, a view also shared by numerous past members of the party who claim any dissent within the party is strongly rebuked.\n\nIn the run-up to the 2018 Slovenian parliamentary election, SDS attempted to receive a loan of €450.000 from an individual residing in Bosnia and Herzegovina to fund its electoral campaign. The party came into contact with the individual via Nova obzorja publishing company (partially owned by SDS). SDS also put up its share in Nova obzorja as collateral. The sum borrowed exceeded limits set by campaign finance laws, however, and SDS was obliged to return the borrowed funds. A police and financial court investigation was also triggered after the terms of the loan became public. An investigation into the lender was also launched, based on suspicions of money laundering, tax avoidance, destruction and falsification of business documents, and overseeing dummy companies. The individual was allegedly a part of a criminal organisation managing dummy companies that received funds of undisclosed origins (including the funds later loaned to SDS).\n\nLess than a week before the 2018 parliamentary election took place, it was revealed that media/publishing companies closely affiliated and partially owned by SDS received some €800.000 from two Hungarian nationals (or, rather, their companies) - both with close ties to Hungarian president Viktor Orbán - months before the election, bringing the total amount SDS-affiliated media companies received from Hungarian entities to over €2.2M. The SDS-affiliated media companies that received the funds in turn purchased campaign adds for SDS. Nova obzorja publishing company also attempted to loan €60,000 to the party. The same Hungarian individuals also provided funds for political allies in Makedonia. It is furthermore also known that the loan SDS attempted to obtain from a Bosnian citizen some months earlier had a Hungarian connection.\n\nPresidents of the Social Democratic Party and Slovenian Democratic Party\n\n"}
{"id": "31541420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31541420", "title": "Suffrage in Australia", "text": "Suffrage in Australia\n\nSuffrage in Australia refers to the right to vote (usually referred to as franchise) for people living in Australia, including all its six component states (before 1901 called colonies) and territories, as well as local councils. The colonies of Australia began to grant universal male suffrage during the 1850s and women's suffrage followed between the 1890s and 1900s. Today, the right to vote at federal, state and local levels of government is enjoyed by all citizens of Australia over the age of 18 years.\n\nUpon first white settlement in New South Wales in 1788, the appointed Governors had autocratic powers within the colony, but agitation for representative government began soon after the settlement. A legislative body, the New South Wales Legislative Council, was created in 1825, which was an appointed body whose function was to advise the Governor. On 24 August 1824, 5 members were appointed to the Council, which increased to 7 members in 1825, and between 10 and 15 in 1829. Also in 1829, British sovereignty was extended to cover the whole of Australia, and everyone born in Australia, including Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, became British subjects by birth.\n\nThe first parliamentary elections in Australia took place in 1843 for the New South Wales Legislative Council under the \"New South Wales Constitution Act 1842\" (UK). The Council had 36 members, of which 12 were appointed by the Governor and the remainder were elected. The right to vote was limited to men with a freehold valued at £200 or a householder paying rent of £20 per year, both very large sums at the time.\n\nIn the 1850s, limited self-government was granted to South Australia (1856), Victoria (1857), New South Wales (1858) and Tasmania (1896): all adult (21 years) male British subjects became entitled to vote. This included indigenous people but they were not encouraged to enroll. Queensland gained self-government in 1859 and Western Australia in 1890, but these colonies denied indigenous people the vote. An innovative secret ballot was introduced in Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia.\n\nIn 1856, under a new Constitution, the New South Wales Parliament became bicameral with a fully elected Legislative Assembly and a fully appointed Legislative Council with a Government taking over most of the legislative powers of the Governor. On 22 May 1856, the newly constituted New South Wales Parliament opened and sat for the first time. The right to vote for Legislative Assembly was extended to all adult males in 1858.\n\nIn 1901, the six Australian colonies united to form the federal Commonwealth of Australia. The first election for the Commonwealth Parliament in 1901 was based on the electoral laws at that time of the six colonies, so that those who had the right to vote and to stand for Parliament at state level had the same rights for the 1901 Australian federal election. Only in South Australia (since 1895) and Western Australia (since 1899) did women have a vote. Tasmania retained a small property qualification for voting, but in the other states all male British subjects over 21 could vote. Only in South Australia (which included the Northern Territory) and Tasmania were indigenous Australians even theoretically entitled to vote. A few may have done so in South Australia. Western Australia and Queensland specifically barred indigenous people from voting.\n\nIn 1902, the Commonwealth Parliament passed the \"Commonwealth Franchise Act 1902\", which established a uniform franchise law for the federal Parliament. The Act declared that all British subjects over the age of 21 years who had been living in Australia for at least 6 months were entitled to a vote, whether male or female, and whether married or single. Besides granting Australian women the right to vote at a national level, it also allowed them to stand for election to federal Parliament. This meant that Australia was the second country, after New Zealand, to grant women's suffrage at a national level, and the first country to allow women to stand for Parliament. However, the Act also disqualified Indigenous people from Australia, Asia, Africa and the Pacific Islands, with the exception of Māori, from voting, even though they were British subjects and otherwise entitled to a vote. By this provision, Indian people, for example, were disqualified to vote. The only exception was in relation to those who were entitled under Section 41 of the Australian Constitution to a vote. Section 41 states that any individual who has gained a right to vote at a state level, must also have the right to vote in federal elections. The then Solicitor-General, Robert Garran, interpreted the provision to mean that Commonwealth voting rights were granted by section 41 only to people who were already State voters in 1902. The effect was not to enable those who subsequently acquired the right to vote at a State level, but who were expressly excluded from the franchise by the 1902 Act, such as Indigenous Australians, to also vote at the federal level. Also, those otherwise entitled voters who are subject to a crime which carries a penalty of over one year in prison are disqualified to vote. There was also no representation for any of the territories of Australia.\n\nIn the meantime, State franchise laws continued in force until each one chose to amend them.\n\nIn 1897, in South Australia, Catherine Helen Spence was the first woman to stand as a political candidate. The restrictions on voting by indigenous Australians were relaxed after World War II, and removed by the \"Commonwealth Electoral Act\" in 1962. Senator Neville Bonner became the first Aboriginal Australian to sit in the federal Parliament in 1971. Julia Gillard became the first female Prime Minister of Australia in 2010.\n\nTraditional Aboriginal society had been governed by councils of elders and a corporate decision making process, but the first European-style governments established after 1788 were autocratic and run by appointed governors - although English law was transplanted into the Australian colonies by virtue of the doctrine of reception, thus notions of the rights and processes established by the \"Magna Carta\" and the Bill of Rights 1689 were brought from Britain by the colonists. Agitation for representative government began soon after the settlement of the colonies.\n\nAdelaide City Council was established in 1840 and the City of Sydney in 1842. The right to stand for election was limited to men who possessed £1000 worth of property and wealthy landowners were permitted up to four votes each in elections.\n\nIn 1835, William Wentworth had established the Australian Patriotic Association which agitated for representative government for New South Wales and a broad franchise, a goal at least partially achieved in 1842. Despite opposition from conservative free settlers in the colony, who sought representative government but emancipists being disenfranchised, the colony's constitution of 1842 gave to emancipists the same political rights as free settlers, but which was subject to a property test. The right to vote was limited to men with a freehold valued at £200 or a householder paying rent of £20 per year, both very large sums at the time. Australia's first parliamentary elections were conducted for the New South Wales Legislative Council in 1843. Voter rights were extended in New South Wales in 1850 and elections for legislative councils were held in the colonies of Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania.\n\nBy the mid 19th century, there was a strong desire for representative and responsible government in the Australian colonies, fed by the democratic spirit of the goldfields evident at the Eureka Rebellion and the ideas of the great reform movements sweeping Europe, the United States and the British Empire, such as Chartism. The end of convict transportation accelerated reform in the 1840s and 1850s. \"The Australian Colonies Government Act\" [1850] was a landmark development which granted representative constitutions to New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania and the colonies enthusiastically set about writing constitutions which produced democratically progressive parliaments - though the constitutions generally maintained the role of the colonial upper houses as representative of social and economic \"interests\" and all established Constitutional Monarchies with the British monarch as the symbolic head of state. In 1855 South Australia granted the right to vote to all male British subjects (a term which extended to Indigenous males) 21 years or over. This right was extended to Victoria in 1857 and New South Wales the following year. The other colonies followed until, in 1896, Tasmania became the last colony to grant universal male suffrage, though some colonies explicitly excluded Indigenous males from the vote.\n\nThe female descendants of the Bounty mutineers who lived on Pitcairn Islands could vote from 1838, and this right transferred with their resettlement to Norfolk Island (now an Australian external territory) in 1856.\n\nPropertied women in the colony of South Australia were granted the vote in local elections (but not parliamentary elections) in 1861. \nHenrietta Dugdale formed the first Australian women's suffrage society in Melbourne, Victoria in 1884. Women in the other colonies soon followed forming their own societies. The international Women's Christian Temperance Union set up Womanhood Suffrage departments in each colony. The suffrage groups collected monster suffrage petitions to submit to the colonial parliaments, with varying success. For Queensland's three petitions, one for women and a second for men were collected in 1894, and a third arranged by the WCTU in 1897. Women in South Australia and the Northern Territory became eligible to vote for the Parliament of South Australia in 1895 and in 1897, Catherine Helen Spence became the first female political candidate for political office, unsuccessfully standing for election as a delegate to Federal Convention on Australian Federation. Western Australia granted voting rights to women in 1899.\n\nThe first election for the Parliament of the newly formed Commonwealth of Australia in 1901 was based on the electoral provisions of the six pre-existing colonies, so that women who had the vote and the right to stand for Parliament at state level, namely South Australia and Western Australia, had the same voting rights for the 1901 Australian federal election. The \"Commonwealth Franchise Act 1902\" set uniform rules across Australia, and gave all women the right to vote and stand for election for federal Parliament. Four women stood at the 1903 federal election, all of whom stood as independents and all of whom were unsuccessful. The Act did, however, specifically exclude 'natives' from Commonwealth franchise unless already enrolled in a state at the time. The other states followed suit granting women over 21 the vote soon after: New South Wales in 1902, Tasmania in 1903, Queensland in 1905 and Victoria in 1908, the last state to do so.\n\nThe year in which women obtained the right to vote in Australia are summarised as follows:\n\nIndigenous Australians began to be enfranchised within Parliamentary systems of the Australian colonies during the 1850s. However, the granting of voting rights was uneven and restricted altogether in some colonies (and later states). Vestigial legal discrimination against Indigenous voters was removed in the 1960s.\n\nWhen the colonial constitutions of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania were framed in the 1850s, voting rights were granted to all male British subjects over the age of 21, which included Aboriginal men. A few may have done so in South Australia. Western Australia and Queensland specifically barred indigenous people from voting. However, few Aborigines were aware of their rights and hence very few participated in elections. The situation became murkier when the \"Commonwealth Franchise Act\" was passed in 1902. The Act gave women a vote in federal elections but Aboriginal people and people from Asia, Africa or the Pacific Islands (except for Māori) were excluded unless entitled under Section 41 of the Australian Constitution. Section 41 states that any individual who has gained a right to vote at a state level, must also have the right to vote in federal elections. The Solicitor-General, Sir Robert Garran, interpreted it to mean that Commonwealth rights were granted only to people who were already State voters in 1902. What transpired was a situation where Aboriginals who had already enrolled to vote were able to continue to do so, whereas those who had not were denied the right. This interpretation was challenged in Victoria in 1924 by an Indian migrant, where the magistrate ruled that Section 2 meant that people who acquired State votes at any date were entitled to a Commonwealth vote. The Commonwealth government in 1925 changed the law to give natives of British India living in Australia the vote (there were only about 100 in Australia at the time), but continued to deny other non-white applicants.\n\nCampaigns for indigenous civil rights in Australia gathered momentum from the 1930s. In 1938, with the participation of leading indigenous activists like Douglas Nicholls, the \"Australian Aborigines' League\" organised a protest \"Day of Mourning\" to mark the 150th anniversary of the arrival of the First Fleet of British in Australia and launched its campaign for full civil rights for all Aborigines. In the 1940s, the conditions of life for Aborigines could be very poor. A permit system restricted movement and work opportunities for many Aboriginal people. In the 1950s, the government pursued a policy of \"assimilation\" which sought to achieve full civil rights for Aborigines but also wanted them to adopt the mode of life of other Australians (which very often was assumed to require suppression of cultural identity).\n\nIn 1949, the right to vote in federal elections was extended to all Indigenous people who had served in the armed forces, or were enrolled to vote in state elections (Queensland, Western Australian, and the Northern Territory still excluded indigenous people from the vote). Remaining federal restrictions were abolished in 1962, though enrolment was voluntary.\n\nIn the 1960s, reflecting the strong civil rights movements in the United States and South Africa, many changes in Aborigines’ rights and treatment followed, including removal of restrictions on voting rights. The Menzies Government \"Commonwealth Electoral Act\" of 1962 confirmed the Commonwealth vote for all Aborigines. Western Australia gave them State votes in the same year, and Queensland followed in 1965.\n\nThe 1967 referendum was held and electors overwhelmingly approved the amendment of the Constitution to remove discriminatory references and giving the national parliament the power to legislate specifically for Indigenous Australians. Contrary to frequently repeated mythology, this referendum did not cover citizenship for Indigenous people, nor did it give them the vote: they already had both. However, transferring this power away from the State parliaments did bring an end to the system of Indigenous Australian reserves which existed in each state, which allowed Indigenous people to move more freely, and exercise many of their citizenship rights for the first time. From the late 1960s a movement for Indigenous land rights also developed. In the mid 1960s, one of the earliest Aboriginal graduates from the University of Sydney, Charles Perkins, helped organise freedom rides into parts of Australia to expose discrimination and inequality. In 1966, the Gurindji people of Wave Hill station (owned by the Vestey Group) commenced strike action led by Vincent Lingiari in a quest for equal pay and recognition of land rights.\n\nIndigenous Australians began to take up representation in Australian parliaments during the 1970s. In 1971 Neville Bonner of the Liberal Party was appointed by the Queensland Parliament to replace a retiring senator, becoming the first Aborigine in Federal Parliament. Bonner was returned as a Senator at the 1972 election and remained until 1983. Hyacinth Tungutalum of the Country Liberal Party in the Northern Territory and Eric Deeral of the National Party of Queensland, became the first Indigenous people elected to territory and state legislatures in 1974. In 1976, Sir Douglas Nicholls was appointed Governor of South Australia, becoming the first Aborigine to hold vice-regal office in Australia. Aden Ridgeway of the Australian Democrats served as a senator during the 1990s, but no indigenous person was elected to the House of Representatives, until West Australian Liberal Ken Wyatt, in August 2010.\n\nUntil 1911, the Northern Territory was a part of South Australia. From 1863 to 1911, Territorians had the same voting rights for representatives in both Houses of the South Australian Parliament as people living in South Australia. The status of South Australian voters, which enfranchised both women and Indigenous Australians there to a vote, also qualified them to vote in elections for both Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament at the first federal elections in 1901. In 1911, however, the Northern Territory was transferred to the Commonwealth government, which also had the effect of depriving Territorians of all political representation. At the time of the Commonwealth takeover the Territory's population was only 3031.\n\nThe lack of representation became a significant factor in the trades union agitation that led to the recall of the first Commonwealth-appointed Administrator, Dr John Anderson Gilruth, in 1918 and the forced exit of his three leading officials eight months later. The Territory's population had increased to only 3572 by 1921.\n\nThe Commonwealth Constitution did not allow for Federal electorates to cross state borders, and national governments shied away from a hypothetical impasse where a few hundred Territory voters might some day hold the balance of power in an evenly divided Commonwealth Parliament. In 1922, the \"Northern Territory Representation Act 1922\" was passed by the Australian Parliament to give the Territory one Member in the House of Representatives, but did not allow the Member to vote. Before 1936, the Member for Northern Territory could speak in the House and take part in committee work, but could not vote, and did not count for the purpose of forming government. Between 1936 and 1959 the Member was only able to veto motions to disallow laws made for the Territory, and between 1959 and 1968, the Member could only vote on matters relating to the Territory alone. In 1968, the Member for Northern Territory acquired full voting rights.\n\nAfter the 1974 federal election, the Whitlam Labor Government legislation to give the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory representation in the Australian Senate, with two senators being elected from each, was passed by the subsequent Joint Sitting of parliament.\n\nInitially, voting in colonial elections was based on a property requirement. The Australian Constitution ensured that the right to vote for the Senate was granted to the same people as could vote for the House of Representatives. Some state upper houses were either appointed or kept a restricted franchise well into the last half of the 20th century. The South Australian Legislative Council was elected on a property-based franchise until 1973. The New South Wales Legislative Council was appointed until 1978. Since the 1970s, all the houses of Australian parliaments have been elected on a full adult franchise basis.\n\nThe property requirement was replaced for the lower houses of colonial Parliaments with a voting age of 21 years for men only, as follows: South Australia (1856), Victoria (1857), New South Wales (1858), Queensland (1872), Western Australia (1893), Tasmania (1896). Women of 21 years acquired the vote subsequently (see above). State voting age laws applied at the first federal election, and was legislated for federal elections in 1902, applying equally to men and women 21 years of age.\n\nThe exception was military service. In World War I, members of the armed services had the vote in some states, and in World War II, the Commonwealth and some states did the same.\n\nThe voting age for all federal elections was lowered from 21 to 18 in 1973. The states had lowered the voting age to 18 by 1973, the first being Western Australian in 1970.\n\nAt Federation, the \"Commonwealth Franchise Act 1902\" disenfranchised those \"attainted of treason, or who had been convicted and is under sentence or subject to be sentenced for any offence … punishable by imprisonment for one year or longer.\"\n\nIn 1983, this disenfranchisement was relaxed and prisoners serving a sentence for a crime punishable under the law for less than 5 years were allowed to vote. A further softening occurred in 1995 when the disenfranchisement was limited to those actually serving a sentence of 5 years or longer, although earlier that year the Keating Government had been planning legislation to extend voting rights to all prisoners. Disenfranchisement does not continue after release from jail/prison.\n\nThe Howard Government legislated in 2006 to ban all prisoners from voting; but in 2007, the High Court in \"Roach v Electoral Commissioner\" found that the Constitution enshrined a limited right to vote, which meant that citizens serving relatively short prison sentences (generally less than 3 years) cannot be barred from voting. The threshold of 3 years or more sentence will result in removal of the prisoner from the federal electoral roll, and the person must re-enrol upon release.\n\nEach state has its own prisoner disenfranchisement thresholds. For example, prisoners in New South Wales serving a sentence of longer than one year are not entitled to vote in State elections. In Victoria, persons are struck off the roll if serving a prison sentence of 5 years or more. There is no prisoner disenfranchisement in the Australian Capital Territory or South Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "43709768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43709768", "title": "USA–USSR Track and Field Dual Meet Series", "text": "USA–USSR Track and Field Dual Meet Series\n\nUSA-USSR Dual Track Meet Series was an athletics meeting between United States and Soviet Union. It was held 19 times during the Cold War era from 1958 to 1985. The meeting was arranged alternatively in both countries, exception being the last event in 1985 which was held in Tokyo, Japan. Seven indoor meetings were also competed in the 1970s. Although the meetings were foremost athletic competitions, they served as propaganda and foreign diplomacy tools as well.\n\nThe most classic meeting is considered the 1962 competition in Stanford, California, with an attendance of more than 150,000 on a two-day event, the largest ever on a non-Olympic track and field competition. Even the Soviet workouts attracted crowds of 5,000. The Stanford meeting was held just two months before the Cuban Missile Crisis but the American and Soviet athletes competed in harmony and mutual friendship. Two world records were set in Stanford, Valeriy Brumel on high jump and Hal Connolly on hammer throw.\n\n"}
{"id": "32745522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32745522", "title": "United People's Democratic Solidarity", "text": "United People's Democratic Solidarity\n\nUnited People's Democratic Solidarity was formed in March 1999 with the merger of two terrorist outfits in Assam's Karbi Anglong district, the Karbi National Volunteers (KNV) and Karbi People’s Front (KPF).\n\nThe outfit signed a cease-fire agreement for one year with the Union Government on May 23, 2002. However, this led to a split in the UPDS with one faction deciding to continue with its subversive activities while the other commenced negotiations with the Government. Currently, there are two factions: pro-talks and anti-talks. On May 16, 2004, the UPDS (Anti-Talks) rechristened itself as the Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front (KLNLF) and its armed wing as the Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Resistance Force (KNPR).\n\nKiri Rongphar was the founder ‘chairman’ of the outfit. He was arrested on October 22, 1999. On August 22, 2002, UPDS 'commander-in-chief' Long Kumar Kiling died of injuries sustained during a feline attack in the forests of Karbi Anglong district. Although this has not been proved.\n\nAt present, the outfit is headed by its Chairman Longder Singner alias H E Kathar and General Secretary Haren Sing Bey. T Nongloda is the outfit's Publicity Secretary and Lindok Ronghang its Finance Secretary.\n\nThe total cadre strength of the UPDS is estimated to be a little more than 150, of which at least 50 are believed to be armed with sophisticated weapons.\n\nThe outfit's main area of operations is in the Karbi Anglong district, with a relatively minor presence in Dima Hasao district.\n\nThe outfit is known to have grown with the active assistance of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Isak-Muivah (NSCN-IM), which provided it with arms and ammunition. It is reported to have procured arms and ammunition from Bhutan and Bangladesh.\n\nThe UPDS also shares a ‘working relationship’ with the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) and the United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA).\n\nAbductions for ransom and extortion are the main sources of income for the UPDS. The outfit generates a considerable amount of revenue by targeting the ginger producing Kukis in the Singhason Hills area. The non-Karbi traders are also targeted for extortion. In some cases, even Karbi's have been the targets.\n\nThe outfit held six rounds of peace talks with the State and Union Government representatives between 2002 and 2006. Tha last round of talks was held on July 26, 2006. Subsequently, the outfit pulled out of the talks process complaining of lack of progress on its core demands. The outfit's cadres are lodged in one Government guarded designated camp at Diphu with 60 cadres, two main camps and several sub-camps.\n\nOn August, 2011, The Government of India released a statement wherein it planned to sign peace pacts with UPDS.\n\nAs of November 25, 2011, the Outfit has signed a tripartite peace accord with the Government Of India for reorganizing the existing autonomous district (Karbi Anglong) under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution into four administrative districts for better administrative and developmental administration.\n\nAs part of the restructuring and empowerment process, the existing autonomous council will be renamed the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Territorial Council.\n\nThe proposed Karbi Anglong Autonomous Territorial Council will have 50 members to give greater representation to people living in remote and isolated clusters of villages.\n\nOf these, 44 will be elected members and six will be nominated by the governor of Assam.\n\nAccording to the MoS, the increase in seats will be applicable from subsequent elections, due in the year 2016-17 or mid-term poll, if any, whichever is earlier.\n\nAltogether 39 subjects will be transferred to the proposed Karbi Anglong Autonomous Territorial Council and its chief and deputy chief will have status equivalent to that of the cabinet minister and the other executive council members equivalent to the minister of state.\n\nIn the MoS, it was also mentioned that the state government would provide support for relief and rehabilitation of the members of the UPDS, besides organizing vocational classes for them.\n\nIt stated that special psychological counseling and career guidance classes would be also be held at the designated camps of UPDS to facilitate rehabilitation of its cadres.\n\nAs of 14 December 2014, The UPDS has formally disbanded following the mass surrender of all it cadres and leaders.\n"}
{"id": "2615272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2615272", "title": "V. M. Tarkunde", "text": "V. M. Tarkunde\n\nVithal Mahadeo Tarkunde (3 July 1909 in Saswad – 22 March 2004 in Delhi), was a prominent Indian lawyer, civil rights activist, and humanist leader and has been referred to as the \"Father of the Civil Liberties movement\" in India and a former judge of the Bombay High Court The Supreme Court of India also praised him as \"undoubtedly the most distinguished judge of the post-Chagla 1957 period\" in the Bombay High Court.\n\nVithal Mahadeo Tarkunde was born in Saswad, Pune District, Maharashtra on 3 July 1909. He was the 2nd of the five children of Mahadeo Rajaram Tarkunde, a popular lawyer and social reformer at Saswad,then headquarters of Purandar taluka adjoining Pune. His father, a Brahmin by caste, had fought against the practice of untouchability.\n\nIn 1920 he migrated from Saswad to Pune and joined the New English School, Pune. In the Matriculation examination of 1925 held by the Bombay University, he stood first in the erstwhile Bombay Presidency. He also secured the prestigious Jagannath Shankersheth Scholarship for Sanskrit. He then joined the Fergusson College for BA which he completed in 1929, subsequently moving to London, where he attended the Lincoln's Inn and qualified as a Barrister-at-Law in 1931. He also attended lectures in economics, political science and social anthropology at the London School of Economics(LSE) as an external student. He returned to India the next year in December and commenced his legal practice in Pune.\n\nTarkunde started practice at Pune soon after he returned to India in 1933. He continued there till 1942 when he gave up his practice to become a full-time member of the Radical Democratic Party. He resumed his legal practice in the Bombay High Court in 1948 after Independence and was elevated to the bench as a Judge of the Bombay High Court in September 1957. He stepped down voluntarily as Judge of the Bombay High Court in 1969 and set up practice in the Supreme Court of India where he continued till his resignation in 1977 at the age of 68. He was chiefly concerned with Public Interest Litigations and constitutional cases, most of which he conducted with little or no fees.\n\nIn 1933, he joined the Congress Socialist Party(CSP) and the Indian National Congress but later left the CSP disillusioned with their vote against Subhas Chandra Bose in the January 1939 Tripuri session of Congress. He then joined the League of Radical Congressmen led by his mentor M. N. Roy in April 1939.\n\nIn 1940, Roy and Tarkunde, along with several others, left the Congress after dissenting on the question of participation in the Second World War. Roy advocated participation in the war against the Axis powers, while simultaneously striving for Indian independence, and founded the Radical Democratic Party to further this cause.In 1942, Tarkunde gave up his legal practice to become a full-time member of the Radical Democratic Party and was elected General Secretary of the RDP in 1944, thereby migrating to Delhi. By 1946 Roy formulated the philosophy of New Humanism. By 1948 he and Roy decided that political parties were an inadequate instrument for promoting freedom of the people and so dissolved the RDP in December 1948. He returned to legal practice the same year.\n\nIn 1969, Tarkunde founded the Indian Radical Humanist Association as an organisation for radical humanists. He also began editing the \"Radical Humanist\" (founded in 1937 by Roy as \"Independent India\") in April 1970, supporting it initially with his own income. In 1973 he was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto.\n\nDuring the emergency, he worked closely with Jayaprakash Narayan, providing leadership to the NGOs Citizens for Democracy and People's Union for Civil Liberties, of which he was the founding president. He also worked on the Citizen's Justice Committee and played a principal part in resisting and investigating the excesses of the period, including the 1984 Anti-Sikh riots, and human rights violations in the Punjab, Kashmir, and the North-East. His refusal to consider kashmiri pandits who had fled valley in 1990 as human right victims caused much controversy and led to his dubbing as \" Terrorists' defender in chief\" as he regularly attacked Indian army for fake encounters and extra judicial killings.In 1995, he departed from his earlier stand of considering firing by police as human rights violation and defended UP government in Muzaffarnagar police firing and rape on Uttarakhand state demand activists on 2 October 1994 in Supreme Court.His volte face was noted by honourable bench with humour and he won the case with court ruling that there was not adequate evidence of wilful human rights violation by State government.But it led to his breaking ranks with radical humanists.\n\nTarkunde was a board member for the International Humanist and Ethical Union(IHEU), the world union of Humanist organisations for over 40 years.\n\nAt the 1978 London Congress of the IHEU, VM Tarkunde received the International Humanist Award 1978. The Government of India awarded him the civilian honour of the Padma Bhushan in 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32153498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32153498", "title": "You Deserve to Know", "text": "You Deserve to Know\n\nThe You Deserve To Know campaign, launched by The Agenda Project, featured a video on YouTube criticizing President Barack Obama for speaking with the United States Chamber of Commerce without acknowledging its status as the largest lobbyist in the United States and confronting it about its vehement opposition to vital economic reform. \n\nAgenda Project founder Erica Payne explained the campaign by stating, \"The Chamber claims to speak for American business, but half of the Chamber's budget is paid for by 45 big corporations. The President is well aware that the Chamber is in actuality just a high priced lobbyist for a small number of corporations. I hardly think the President will restore our faith in government by fawning over the banks at the center of the financial crisis, oil companies like BP who destroyed the Gulf, and insurance companies who secretly funneled $10 million through the Chamber to fight insurance reform.\" \n\nThe title of the video is a reference to the President's State of the Union address, during which he stated \"You deserve to know when your elected officials are meeting with lobbyists.\" \n\nThis brief campaign garnered attention from news sources such as:\n\n"}
