{"id": "51847967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51847967", "title": "After the Deluge (painting)", "text": "After the Deluge (painting)\n\nAfter the Deluge, also known as The Forty-First Day, is a Symbolist oil painting by English artist George Frederic Watts, first exhibited as The Sun in an incomplete form in 1886 and completed in 1891. It shows a scene from the story of Noah's Flood, in which after 40 days of rain Noah opens the window of his Ark to see that the rain has stopped. Watts felt that modern society was in decline owing to a lack of moral values, and he often painted works on the topic of the Flood and its cleansing of the unworthy from the world. The painting takes the form of a stylised seascape, dominated by a bright sunburst breaking through clouds. Although this was a theme Watts had depicted previously in \"The Genius of Greek Poetry\" in 1878, \"After the Deluge\" took a radically different approach. With this painting he intended to evoke a monotheistic God in the act of creation, but avoid depicting the Creator directly.\n\nThe unfinished painting was exhibited in Whitechapel in 1886, under the intentionally simplified title of \"The Sun\". Watts worked on the painting for a further five years, and the completed version was exhibited for the first time at the New Gallery in 1891. Between 1902 and 1906 the painting was exhibited around the United Kingdom, and it is now in the collection of the Watts Gallery in Compton, Surrey. As Watts did not include \"After the Deluge\" in his gift to the nation of what he considered his most significant works, it is not among his better-known paintings. However, it was greatly admired by many of Watts's fellow artists, and has been cited as an influence on numerous other painters who worked in the two decades following its initial exhibition.\n\nGeorge Frederic Watts was born in 1817, the son of a London musical instrument manufacturer. His two brothers died in 1823, and his mother in 1826, giving Watts an obsession with death throughout his life. Watts was apprenticed as a sculptor at the age of 10, and by his mid-teens was proficient enough as an artist to be earning a living as a portrait painter. At the age of 18 he gained admission to the Royal Academy schools, although he disliked their methods and his attendance was intermittent. From 1837, Watts was successful enough to devote himself full-time to painting.\n\nIn 1843 he travelled to Italy where he remained for four years. On his return to London he suffered from melancholia, and painted many notably gloomy works. His skills were widely celebrated, and in 1856 he decided to devote himself to portrait painting. His portraits were extremely highly regarded, and in 1867 he was elected to the Royal Academy, at the time the highest honour available to an artist, although he rapidly became disillusioned with its culture. From 1870 onwards he became widely renowned as a painter of allegorical and mythical subjects; by this time, he was one of the most highly regarded artists in the world. In 1881 he added a glass-roofed gallery to his home at Little Holland House, which was open to the public at weekends, further increasing his fame.\n\n\"After the Deluge\" depicts a scene from the story of Noah's Flood, in which Noah opens the window of the Ark to see that after forty days the rain has ended, but that the floodwaters have not yet subsided. Although his father's strict evangelical Christianity had instilled in Watts a strong dislike of organised religion, he had a deep knowledge of the Bible, and Noah and the Flood were both themes he regularly depicted throughout his career. \n\nWatts had a strong belief in the idea that modern society was prioritising wealth over social values, and that this attitude, which he described as \"the hypocritical veiling of the daily sacrifice made to this deity\", was leading to the decline of society. Hilary Underwood of the University of Surrey writes that Watts likely painted so many works on the theme of Noah as he saw modern parallels with the notion of the cleaning of a degenerate society while preserving those who still adhered to moral standards. Watts chose to depict the moment at which the sun became visible for the first time, after 40 days obscured by clouds.\n\nWatts illustrated the scene with a highly stylised seascape. Above the sea is a bright sunburst, with the light of the sun illuminating the surrounding clouds and bright rays projecting beyond the edges of the canvas.\nWatts's composition echoes J. M. W. Turner's 1843 treatment of the same topic, \"Light and Colour (Goethe's Theory)—The Morning after the Deluge—Moses Writing the Book of Genesis\", in primarily depicting a circle of bright light. However, Turner's painting depicts recognisable human figures, and no work by Turner ever came as close to pure abstract art as Watts's composition.\n\nIn this stage of his career Watts regularly painted images linking awe-inspiring natural events and the will of God. His focus on the sun reflects his longstanding interest in it as a divine symbol; \"The Sacrifice of Noah\", painted 1865, showed Noah sacrificing to the sun in thanks for his family's salvation. This interest in the sun possibly came from Watts's acquaintance Max Müller, who had written extensively on solar theories of mythology (the belief that the religions of Europe, the Middle East and southern Asia were all ultimately derived from Proto-Indo-European worship of the sun). Writing after Watts's death, his widow Mary Seton Watts wrote that:\n\nWatts had previously depicted an orange sun above a flat sea in his 1878 work \"The Genius of Greek Poetry\", but the theme and composition of \"After the Deluge\" was radically different. \"The Genius of Greek Poetry\" was intended to evoke pantheism, with figures representing the forces of nature in human form working and playing, while being watched by the large central figure of the Genius. \"After the Deluge\" was explicitly intended as a monotheistic image, evoking both the magnificence and the redemptive mercy of a single all-powerful God engaging in the act of creation. \n\n\"After the Deluge\" was exhibited in unfinished form in 1886 as \"The Sun\" at St Jude's Church, Whitechapel; Samuel Barnett, vicar of St Jude's, organised annual art exhibitions in east London in an effort to bring beauty into the lives of the poor; he had a close relationship with Watts, and regularly borrowed his works to display them to local residents. Following this exhibition Watts continued to work on the painting for a further five years.\n\nThe completed version of \"After the Deluge\" was exhibited at the New Gallery in 1891. On the occasion of its 1891 exhibition and at a later exhibition in 1897, also at the New Gallery, it was accompanied by an explanatory note (thought to have been written by Watts) explaining the image:\nBetween 1902 and 1906 it was exhibited around the country, being shown in Cork, Edinburgh, Manchester and Dublin, as well as at Watts's own gallery at Little Holland House. In 1904 it was transferred to the newly-opened Watts Gallery in Compton, Surrey, shortly before Watts's death later that year. Two years prior to this, Watts had returned to the theme of creation with \"The Sower of the Systems\", which for the first time in one of his works directly depicted God, and which he described as representing \"a great gesture into which everything that exists is woven\".\n\nAlthough Watts painted landscapes throughout his life, he did not consider such paintings to be major works, and when between 1886 and 1902 he donated what he felt to be his 23 most significant non-portrait works to the nation for public display, no landscape paintings were included. As a consequence of its omission from these gifts to the nation, \"After the Deluge\" is not among his better-known works, although it was greatly admired by many of Watts's fellow artists. Walter Bayes wrote in 1907 that \"After the Deluge\" was \"the sort of landscape that we connect with the name of Mr Watts, a landscape from which all that is coarse and material has been eliminated, and which offers a residuum that is a kind of sublimation of all the most poetic elements in nature\". It has been cited as an influence on many works painted in the two decades following its completion, including paintings of the sun by Maurice Chabas, Giuseppe Pellizza da Volpedo and Edvard Munch. \"After the Deluge\" remains in the collection of the Watts Gallery.\n\n"}
{"id": "55229170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55229170", "title": "Alexandra Theatre (London)", "text": "Alexandra Theatre (London)\n\nThe Alexandra Theatre was a theatre located in the Stoke Newington district of London. Built in 1897, it was located at 65 and 67 Stoke Newington Road where the present-day Alexandra Court now stands. The theatre was demolished in the 1960s.\n\nOpened on December 27, 1897 as \"The Alexandra Theatre and Opera House\", it was designed by theatre architect Frank Matcham for F. W. Purcell. Upon opening, the theatre had a capacity of 2,025, spread across pit, traditional circle and gallery seating. In 1904, city records list the theatre’s capacity as 1,710, along with an assessed value of £1,250.. The theatre's first performance was the December 27, 1897 staging of \"Dick Whittington\", an adaption of the pantomime Dick Whittington and His Cat.\n\nThe theatre was operated by F. W. Purcell until 1905 when he sold it to new owners. The theatre’s new owners changed its name to the Palace Theatre of Varieties. However, in 1909, it was sold again, this time to Stoll Moss Empires, Ltd., who reverted it back to its original name, the Alexandra Theatre and placed it under the management of Oswald Stoll. In the late 1910s Stoll had screens, projectors and other equipment needed for cinema projection installed and by 1922 cine-variety programs were being presented to audiences. The theatre also presented film matinees and on Sundays, on which, by law, no live performances could be done, the theatre screened films exclusively.\n\nIn 1932, the Alexandra was purchased by Standard Cinema Properties Ltd. and converted to screen films exclusively. However, in 1934 the theatre came under independent management and, in addition to reverting to featuring a mixture of live and film performances, a modern (for the time) sound system was installed. A few years later, the theatre closed with the entry of the United Kingdom into World War II. \n\nThe Alexandra reopened in 1945 after the war ended and subsisted on a variety of live performances, such as boxing matches, Yiddish theatre productions, and special events. During this period, the theatre hosted performances from the Motley Theatre Design Group, including a 1947 staging of an adaptation of Hans Christian Andersen's \"The Snow Queen\", adapted by Evgeny Schwartz. The Alexandra remained open and staging productions and events until finally closing its doors for good in 1950. Thereafter, the building stood empty for many years before being demolished in the early 1960s so that the Alexandra Court tenement could be built.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55899642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55899642", "title": "Anna (Once Upon a Time)", "text": "Anna (Once Upon a Time)\n\nAnna is a fictional character that appears in the fourth season of \"Once Upon a Time\", with actress Elizabeth Lail portraying the character. Anna is loosely based on the character with the same name from the 2013 animated film \"Frozen.\n\nFollowing the events of the film \"Frozen\", Anna is preparing to wed Kristoff when Elsa finds a diary from their mother stating their real reason for their parents' fatal trip. Determined to seek answers, Anna postpones her wedding and travels to the Enchanted Forest (known as Misthaven in Arendelle). Anna meets David, a friend of Kristoff's, and trains him in swordsmanship so he can defend his farm from the evil warlord Bo Peep. Following Bo Peep's defeat, David gives Anna his horse and David's mother gives Anna the name of Rumplestiltskin, a powerful wizard who she believes can give her the answers she is looking for. Anna visits Rumplestiltskin (Robert Carlyle) who tells her that the King and Queen of Arendelle came to him, and he will tell her what they said if she administers a potion to an old man. Anna is afraid the potion is poison and pours it into the old man's fire. She returns to Rumplestiltskin's lair and lies, saying she has given the man the potion, and quickly learns it was an antidote, not a poison. In not giving him the drink, Anna has broken her deal with Rumplestiltskin and subjected the man to turn into a mouse. The deal, when broken, meant that Anna had to be Rumplestiltskin's slave—but, alas, Anna gets control of the dagger that controls him, and orders him to never harm her or her sister, and to send her back home with Rumplestiltskin's weapon, a magic-stealing hat. Back in Arendelle, Anna admits to Kristoff that Rumplestiltskin told her that her parents were afraid of Elsa. She does not tell this to Elsa, but is shocked to see that Elsa is learning to control her power—due to a new woman by the name of Ingrid (Elizabeth Mitchell), who claims she is their mother's sister and also has magic snow powers like her sister Elsa. Anna never knew their mother had a sister, so she is immediately skeptical. She goes to meet Grand Pabbie and the rock trolls to find out if this is the truth. While purchasing supplies at Oaken's shop, Anna runs into Belle (Emilie de Ravin) and they become friends. Together, they journey to the rock trolls, where Anna learns that her mother had two sisters named Ingrid and Helga, but Grand Pabbie changed everyone's memory in all of Arendelle. On the return journey back to the castle, Anna and Belle run into Ingrid. Ingrid sees that Anna has Rumplestiltskin's magic-stealing hat and believes she will betray her, so she grabs hold of Anna and imprisons her. Ingrid tells Anna that she has nothing in common with either her or Elsa as she has no magic as they, and now Ingrid must replace her. Eventually, Anna reunites with her sister, helps Ingrid see the errors of her ways, and marries Kristoff.\n\nWith the introduction of \"Frozen\" characters, the season 4 of \"Once Upon a Time\" saw a 31-percent increase in ratings from the autumn of 2013 (9.3 million viewers), marking its best ratings in almost two years.\n"}
{"id": "31381685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31381685", "title": "Ashamed (2010 film)", "text": "Ashamed (2010 film)\n\nAshamed (), also known under the international title Life Is Peachy, is a South Korean queer film written and directed by Kim Soo-hyeon. This is Kim's second feature film after 2004's \"So Cute\". \"Ashamed\" was released in theaters on December 8, 2011, but had already been making the rounds on the festival circuit. The film had its world premiere in the New Currents section at the 15th Busan International Film Festival and screened in the Panorama section at the 61st Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nArts professor Jung Ji-woo (Kim Sang-hyun) is searching for a nude model for a video clip that she will play at her exhibition. When Hee-jin (Seo Hyun-jin), one of her students, recommends Yoon Ji-woo (Kim Hyo-jin) for the job, the three women head to the beach to shoot the video. As they spend time together, Yoon Ji-woo begins to share pieces of her past relationship with Kang Ji-woo (Kim Kkot-bi). The film weaves through the pasts and presents of the three Ji-woos and focuses on their intersecting relationships.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844810", "title": "Avaldsnes Church", "text": "Avaldsnes Church\n\nAvaldsnes Church (, formally \"St. Olav's Church at Avaldsnes\", ) is a parish church in Karmøy municipality in Rogaland county, Norway. The medieval stone church is located in the village of Avaldsnes on the northern part of the island of Karmøy. The first church located here was likely built before the year 1024 on the site of a royal estate. The present stone church was built in 1250 and it seats about 400 people. The church is part of the Avaldsnes parish in the Karmøy deanery in the Diocese of Stavanger.\n\nBefore this church was constructed, there was a wooden church on the same site around the year 1024. That church is assumed to have been built by Olav Trygvason, and it is possible that the present stone church is built around this church originally.\n\nThis church has been a landmark for seafarers passing through the Karmsundet strait for 750 years. King Håkon IV Håkonsson gave permission to build a church around the year 1250. It was not completed until nearly 1320, and was then the fourth largest in the country. The church was dedicated to St. Olav and received the status of \"Royal Chapel\". During the same period it became one of four \"college-churches\" (it appointed a council of theological and juridical scholars). Probably there was a group of four scholars and teachers in law and theology. There could be there was an octagonal house of stone in close proximity to the quire. Chapter Houses (\"Kapittelhus\") were common for English cathedrals. This is assumed to have been referenced by clergyman and historical writer in 1599. Remaining walls were visible as late as 1840, but are now completely gone.\n\nThe history of the church depicts a fine cross-section of Norway's history. Being one of the largest churches along the coast of Norway, it is certain to have been visited by many travelers on their pilgrimage to St. Olav's shrine in Trondheim.\n\nDecay started with the Black Death in 1349–1351. This disaster was followed by 400 years of Danish supremacy. In this period, the church gradually fell into a state of ruin due to lack of repair. By the 17th century a little wooden church was built inside the stone walls. This one was used for more than 200 years.\n\nThe first restoration work began in 1830. The old steeple was demolished, the nave was rebuilt, and a small wooden steeple was erected on the top. In the 1920s the church was once again restored in a manner which was more similar to its original architecture. A new stone steeple was built and the interior renewed.\n\nThe German occupation in World War II became dramatic for the church. The Germans asserted that the high steeple was used as a landmark for Allied planes, coming in over the strait of Karmsund to drop bombs in the water. German authorities demanded the steeple be demolished. Many people were engaged in the task of saving it, and they persuaded the Germans to let them camouflage the whole church with timber. This was to be done in 5 weeks, but the whole job lasted a year. The front of the church bears a couple of bullet holes.\n\nThe 700th anniversary of the church in 1950 was a big event for the community, with concerts and a historical outdoor play which pictured the Viking history of the place.\n\nThe stained glass windows were ordered for the anniversary. They were made by Bernhard Greve, a Norwegian painter, and present the most important events in the life of Christ: Baptism, passion, ascension, and resurrection.\n\nThe altar, font, and pulpit were designed by Eivind Moestue in the 1920s. The baptismal basin dates back to the 16th century.\n\nThe pointed arches, but thick walls and no pillars, suggest an early Gothic design. The walls are composed of ordinary gray stone in thickness about . The corners and frames around the doors and windows are of steatite (soapstone) from Tolgetjønn near Haugesund.\n\nMary's Needle, known in Norwegian as \"the sewing needle of Virgin Mary\" () is the only one remaining of several monumental stones which once stood around the church area. The stone has been somewhat taller, but, towering at it is still the next largest of its kind in Norway. The stone leans in towards the church wall—the distance to the wall is in fact only .\n\nA saga tells that \"the day of Judgement will come when the stone comes into contact with the church wall\". A popular story tells us about the minister in ages past climbing up the monument and cutting off a piece from the stone when it came dangerously near the church wall!\n\n\"Note: this list is not entirely complete, additionally medieval priests are only sporadically known.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18793477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18793477", "title": "Celtic coinage", "text": "Celtic coinage\n\nCeltic coinage was minted by the Celts from the late 4th century BC to the late 1st century BC. Celtic coins were influenced by trade with and the supply of mercenaries to the Greeks, and initially copied Greek designs, especially Macedonian coins from the time of Philip II of Macedon and his son, Alexander the Great.\n\nGreek coinage occurred in three Greek cities of Massalia, Emporiae and Rhoda, and was copied throughout southern Gaul.\n\nNorthern Gaulish coins were especially influenced by the coinage of Philip II of Macedon and his famous son Alexander the Great. Celtic coins often retained Greek subjects, such as the head of Apollo on the obverse and two-horse chariot on the reverse of the gold stater of Philip II, but developed their own style from that basis, allowing for the development of a Graeco-Celtic synthesis.\n\nAfter this first period in which Celtic coins rather faithfully reproduced Greek types, designs started to become more symbolic, as exemplified by the coinage of the Parisii in the Belgic region of northern France.\n\nThe Armorican Celtic style in northwestern Gaul also developed from Celtic designs from the Rhine valley, themselves derived from earlier Greek prototypes such as the wine scroll and split palmette.\nThe Boii gave their name to Bohemia and Bologna; a Celtic coin (Biatec) from Bratislava's mint is displayed on Slovak 5 koruna coin, which was in use until Slovakia joined the euro zone on January 1, 2009.\n\nThe images found on Celtic coins include giants trailing severed heads on rope, horsemen charging into battle, gods and goddesses, skulls and chariot wheels, thunderbolts and lightning, the sun and the moon. They are miniature masterpieces of surreal art.\n\nA tribe of Celts called Eburones minted gold coins with triple spirals (a Celtic good luck symbol) on the front, and horses on the back.\n\nThe coins were either 'struck' or 'cast'. Both methods required a substantial degree of knowledge. Striking a blank coin formed in a clay was one way. After forming the blank, it would have been flattened out before striking with a die made from iron or bronze. The tiny details engraved on dies were just a few millimeters in diameter. Casting a coin required a different technique. They were produced by pouring molten alloy into a set of molds which were broken apart when the metal had cooled.\n\nWith the Roman invasion of Gaul, Greek-inspired Celtic coinage started to incorporate Roman influence instead, until it disappeared to be completely replaced by Roman coinage.\n\nTraditional historians have tended to overlook the role played by Celtic coinage in the early history of British money. \n\nOver 45,000 of the ancient British and Gaulish coins discovered in Britain have been recorded at the Oxford Celtic Coin Index. The Trinovantian tribal oppidum of Camulodunon (modern Colchester) was minting large numbers of coins in the first centuries BC and AD, which have been found across Southern Britain. Common motifs on the Camulodunon coins included horses and wheat/barley sheafs, with the names of the rulers written mostly in Latin script, and more rarely in Greek.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21620664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21620664", "title": "Cholamandal Artists' Village", "text": "Cholamandal Artists' Village\n\nCholamandal Artists' Village, established in 1966, is the largest artists' commune in India. Its artists are credited for the Madras Movement of Art (1950s–1980s), which brought modernism to art in South India. Their work is widely recognized as some of the best art produced in postwar India and is shown regularly in galleries across the country. Several Cholamandal artists have also shown in Europe, the United States and South America.\n\nIn the village Injambakkam, 9 km from Chennai, India, it has over 20 resident painters and sculptors, who live as a community and pool their skills. They run the Artists Handicrafts Association, a cooperative which manages the village and sale of works through the permanent exhibition at the complex, which includes paintings, sketches, terra-cotta/stone/metal sculptures, batiks and handicrafts etc., making the village a self-supporting entity.\n\nThe community was founded by K. C. S. Paniker, the principal of the Madras School of Arts, along with his students and a few artists associated with the college. It used the `art-meets-craft' approach where artists made handicrafts for a living as they pursued their art. By the 1970s, the village became self-sufficient and grew into one of the most important meeting places for international artists in India. Today, it is one of the few artist-driven movements in India. Four decades on, it is one of the few artists' colonies in the world to survive successfully and its foundation remains one of the \"10 biggest art moments\" in India.\n\nMost of the original founding creative artists, painters and sculptors were students and artists associated with the Government School of Arts and Crafts, Chennai (Madras School of Arts), where [K.C.S. Paniker], noted metaphysical and abstract painter, was principal 1957 to 1967. These artists desired to form a congenial space for practising their art; 38 of them got together and formed the 'Artists Handicrafts Association' (AHA) in 1963 initially to sell the works of artists.\n\nGradually, the artists started working together, producing handicrafts in their spare time. They were among the first in the country to produce batik fabric; proceeds of their first batik exhibition went into buying the of land in 1966, which was to make up the village. By now K.C.S. Paniker had retired and founded the artists commune in April 1966.\n\nIt was named after the Chola dynasty, which is known to have encouraged arts and ruled the region, 9-13th century AD — called \"Cholamandalam\" in Tamil, which literally translated as \"the realm of the Cholas\". Chola also lends its name to the Coromandel Coast of Bay of Bengal, which is a short walk from the village. Paniker was \"worried that his students might deviate from art due to financial compulsions\".\n\nIn the same year six artists moved into live and work on their own land. In the 60s, while they could hardly sell their paintings, avant garde wood and leather work, batik, ceramics and metal craft, they found a good market. This sustained them, while the local buyers were familiarized to modernism, which their art represented.\n\nElectricity was provided in 1968 and till 1972 the mud road ended at Muttukadu. The village was on a lonely, bumpy road, now known as the East Coast Road highway to Mahabalipuram, from Adyar. Chennai was further away, though today, it is right at its door steps, and the road is busy with traffic and shops and commercial establishments. Over the years, built their houses, studios, exhibition gallery, theatre, workshop and kitchen, which they jointly owned along with all the infrastructure of the village.\n\nIt nurtured artists such as J. Sultan Ali, Dr. K.M. Gopal S. Kanniappan, K. Ramanujam, M. Reddeppa Naidu, S. P. Jayakar, K.R. Harie, P.S. Nandan, D. Venkatapathy, Haridasan, S. Nanda Gopal, S.G. Vasudev, K. Jayapala Panicker, Gopinath, Senathipathy, M.V. Devan and Richard Jesudas. Soon they formed a cooperative to look after the village and built a gallery, which displayed and sold their works; 20% of their sales went to the ‘Cholamandal Artists Handicrafts Association’, which used the funds for village upkeep. In time the cooperative became self-sufficient and held exhibitions of their work in major cities of India.\n\nK.C.S. Paniker died in 1977. By this time the module had proven sustainable. Over the years, work done by the artists at the village, initiated a period in south Indian art called the 'Madras Movement', which brought modernism to south Indian art. The Progressive Painters’ Association (P.P.A.), one of the oldest art associations in India founded by Paniker in Chennai in 1944; it was inactive for many year after Paniker's death. The association was revived in 2006 and a new committee formed. It is now being carried forward by artists at the village and an annually elected general council of members administers Cholamandal. The village continues to produce artists of great talent such as S. Ravi Shankar, A. Selveraj and Shailesh B.O. amongst many others.\n\nDuring his last days Paniker had offered his oeuvre to the Madras government on the condition that a separate gallery be created for his work. When no response came from the government, the Trivandrum Art Gallery took up the offer and now houses an important collection of Paniker's work. The artists at the village wanted a place to display the work of the Madras Movement, thus idea of the art museum took place.\n\nThe artists raised money from the private sector to fund a museum in the village, which would house a permanent collection of artworks representative of the Madras Movement. While the initial design was made by a visiting Dutch couple, the design for the art centre was made by architects Sheila Sri Prakash of Shilpa Architects and M. V. Devan. As the project gathered momentum help came in from artists and corporates alike.\n\nAfter three and half years of construction the building was finished — thus started a long search for works that exemplified the Madras Movement, which flourished between the early 50s and the 80s. Eventually about 60 per cent of the works were donated by senior artists and the rest were given on extended loan by art collectors around the country.\n\nThe Cholamandal Centre for Contemporary Art opened on 1 February 2009. It has a 'Museum of the Madras Movement', which display works of prominent artists of the movement (apart from that of Paniker) including J. Sultan Ali, Dr. K.M. Gopal M. Senathipathi, Late A.P. Santhanaraj, P.S. Nandhan, S.G. Vasudev, K.V. Haridasan, Thotta Tharani, Sculptor S. Nandagopal. The centre has two commercial galleries, 'Labernum' and 'Indigo', that can be rented free of commission charge, an art book store, and a craft shop. It is surrounded by tree-shaded sands which sport an international sculpture garden, displaying sculptures made by visiting artists from across India and the world through the decades.\n\nToday, the village houses art galleries, museums, and an open-air theatre for dance and theatre performances. The original Artists Handicrafts Association is still in charge of the colony, and Paniker's son, sculptor S. Nandagopal, is the secretary of the village. Out of the original 40 artists, many are no more, and some have moved out, only 21 remain today. Cholamandal does not accept new members, though it has at least a dozen artists living or working there at any time, plus many artists-in-residence are at work.\n\nThe village is open daily from 10am to 5pm. It is 10-minute walking distance from the Golden Beach. Local transport is easily available, and the Chennai International Airport is the nearest airport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6489084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6489084", "title": "Cripple Creek Theatre Company", "text": "Cripple Creek Theatre Company\n\nThe Cripple Creek Theatre Company is a grassroots, non-profit theatre company in New Orleans, LA, Louisiana, United States known for producing productions with large, diverse casts. The company was founded in December 2005 by Andrew Kingsley and Andrew Vaught for the purpose of instigating action toward social and economic justice in the South. The founders both attended Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio where they studied American history and theater. The theatre has been identified a driving force in the recovering city.\n\nIn March 2007, the theatre produced \"The Green, Gold and Purple Shuffle\" a satire of Louisiana politics featuring former governor Edwin Edwards and klansman David Duke. The production, performed in Washington Park in the Marigny, employed the device of invisible theatre. The City of New Orleans refused access to the Moon Walk adjacent Jackson Square because of the controversial subject matter.\n\n\"Bury the Dead\", an anti-war zombie play. The production was nominated for three Ambie Awards, including best drama. Andrew Vaught was nominated for best direction and Andrew Kingsley for best lighting design.\n\nThe company's production of the Inspector General by Nikolai Gogol and adapted by Andrew Kingsley was taped by CNN. The play coincided with the establishment of the City of New Orleans' Office of the Inspector General. Robert A. Cerasoli addressed the audience following many performances.\n\nThe theatre was asked to restage its inaugural production, Tennessee Williams' 'Kingdom of Earth' at the Tennessee Williams Festival in the spring of 2009.\n\nThe company also runs the Louisiana Stage Writers' Workshop which encourages playwright development in New Orleans.\n\n"}
{"id": "37803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37803", "title": "Cubism", "text": "Cubism\n\nCubism is an early-20th-century art movement which brought European painting and sculpture historically forward toward 20th century Modern art. Cubism in its various forms inspired related movements in literature and architecture. Cubism has been considered to be among the most influential art movements of the 20th century. The term is broadly used in association with a wide variety of art produced in Paris (Montmartre, Montparnasse and Puteaux) during the 1910s and throughout the 1920s.\n\nThe movement was pioneered by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque, joined by Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Robert Delaunay, Henri Le Fauconnier, and Fernand Léger. One primary influence that led to Cubism was the representation of three-dimensional form in the late works of Paul Cézanne. A retrospective of Cézanne's paintings had been held at the Salon d'Automne of 1904, current works were displayed at the 1905 and 1906 Salon d'Automne, followed by two commemorative retrospectives after his death in 1907. In Cubist artwork, objects are analyzed, broken up and reassembled in an abstracted form—instead of depicting objects from a single viewpoint, the artist depicts the subject from a multitude of viewpoints to represent the subject in a greater context.\n\nThe impact of Cubism was far-reaching and wide-ranging. In other countries Futurism, Suprematism, Dada, Constructivism, De Stijl and Art Deco developed in response to Cubism. Early Futurist paintings hold in common with Cubism the fusing of the past and the present, the representation of different views of the subject pictured at the same time, also called multiple perspective, simultaneity or multiplicity, while Constructivism was influenced by Picasso's technique of constructing sculpture from separate elements. Other common threads between these disparate movements include the faceting or simplification of geometric forms, and the association of mechanization and modern life.\n\nHistorians have divided the history of Cubism into phases. In one scheme, the first phase of Cubism, known as \"Analytic Cubism\", a phrase coined by Juan Gris a posteriori, was both radical and influential as a short but highly significant art movement between 1910 and 1912 in France. A second phase, \"Synthetic Cubism\", remained vital until around 1919, when the Surrealist movement gained popularity. English art historian Douglas Cooper proposed another scheme, describing three phases of Cubism in his book, \"The Cubist Epoch\". According to Cooper there was \"Early Cubism\", (from 1906 to 1908) when the movement was initially developed in the studios of Picasso and Braque; the second phase being called \"High Cubism\", (from 1909 to 1914) during which time Juan Gris emerged as an important exponent (after 1911); and finally Cooper referred to \"Late Cubism\" (from 1914 to 1921) as the last phase of Cubism as a radical avant-garde movement. Douglas Cooper's restrictive use of these terms to distinguish the work of Braque, Picasso, Gris (from 1911) and Léger (to a lesser extent) implied an intentional value judgement.\n\nCubism burgeoned between 1907 and 1911. Pablo Picasso's 1907 painting \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\" has often been considered a proto-Cubist work. Georges Braque's 1908 \"Houses at L’Estaque\" (and related works) prompted the critic Louis Vauxcelles, in \"Gil Blas\", 25 March 1909, to refer to \"bizarreries cubiques\" (cubic oddities). Gertrude Stein referred to landscapes made by Picasso in 1909, such as \"Reservoir at Horta de Ebro\", as the first Cubist paintings. The first organized group exhibition by Cubists took place at the Salon des Indépendants in Paris during the spring of 1911 in a room called 'Salle 41'; it included works by Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Fernand Léger, Robert Delaunay and Henri Le Fauconnier, yet no works by Picasso or Braque were exhibited.\n\nBy 1911 Picasso was recognized as the inventor of Cubism, while Braque’s importance and precedence was argued later, with respect to his treatment of space, volume and mass in the L’Estaque landscapes. But \"this view of Cubism is associated with a distinctly restrictive definition of which artists are properly to be called Cubists,\" wrote the art historian Christopher Green: \"Marginalizing the contribution of the artists who exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants in 1911 [...]\"\n\nThe assertion that the Cubist depiction of space, mass, time, and volume supports (rather than contradicts) the flatness of the canvas was made by Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler as early as 1920, but it was subject to criticism in the 1950s and 1960s, especially by Clement Greenberg.\n\nContemporary views of Cubism are complex, formed to some extent in response to the \"Salle 41\" Cubists, whose methods were too distinct from those of Picasso and Braque to be considered merely secondary to them. Alternative interpretations of Cubism have therefore developed. Wider views of Cubism include artists who were later associated with the \"Salle 41\" artists, e.g., Francis Picabia; the brothers Jacques Villon, Raymond Duchamp-Villon and Marcel Duchamp, who beginning in late 1911 formed the core of the Section d'Or (or the Puteaux Group); the sculptors Alexander Archipenko, Joseph Csaky and Ossip Zadkine as well as Jacques Lipchitz and Henri Laurens; and painters such as Louis Marcoussis, Roger de La Fresnaye, František Kupka, Diego Rivera, Léopold Survage, Auguste Herbin, André Lhote, Gino Severini (after 1916), María Blanchard (after 1916) and Georges Valmier (after 1918). More fundamentally, Christopher Green argues that Douglas Cooper's terms were \"later undermined by interpretations of the work of Picasso, Braque, Gris and Léger that stress iconographic and ideological questions rather than methods of representation.\"\n\nJohn Berger identifies the essence of Cubism with the mechanical diagram. \"The metaphorical model of Cubism is the diagram: The diagram being a visible symbolic representation of invisible processes, forces, structures. A diagram need not eschew certain aspects of appearance but these too will be treated as signs not as imitations or recreations.\"\n\nThere was a distinct difference between Kahnweiler’s Cubists and the Salon Cubists. Prior to 1914, Picasso, Braque, Gris and Léger (to a lesser extent) gained the support of a single committed art dealer in Paris, Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, who guaranteed them an annual income for the exclusive right to buy their works. Kahnweiler sold only to a small circle of connoisseurs. His support gave his artists the freedom to experiment in relative privacy. Picasso worked in Montmartre until 1912, while Braque and Gris remained there until after the First World War. Léger was based in Montparnasse.\n\nIn contrast, the Salon Cubists built their reputation primarily by exhibiting regularly at the Salon d'Automne and the Salon des Indépendants, both major non-academic Salons in Paris. They were inevitably more aware of public response and the need to communicate. Already in 1910 a group began to form which included Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay and Léger. They met regularly at Henri le Fauconnier's studio near the Boulevard de Montparnasse. These soirées often included writers such as Guillaume Apollinaire and André Salmon. Together with other young artists, the group wanted to emphasise a research into form, in opposition to the Neo-Impressionist emphasis on color.\n\nLouis Vauxcelles, in his review of the 26th Salon des Indépendants (1910), made a passing and imprecise reference to Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, Léger and Le Fauconnier as \"ignorant geometers, reducing the human body, the site, to pallid cubes.\" At the 1910 Salon d'Automne, a few months later, Metzinger exhibited his highly fractured \"Nu à la cheminée (Nude)\", which was subsequently reproduced in both \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" (1912) and \"Les Peintres Cubistes\" (1913).\n\nThe first public controversy generated by Cubism resulted from Salon showings at the Indépendants during the spring of 1911. This showing by Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, le Fauconnier and Léger brought Cubism to the attention of the general public for the first time. Amongst the Cubist works presented, Robert Delaunay exhibited his \"Eiffel Tower, Tour Eiffel\" (Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York).\nAt the Salon d'Automne of the same year, in addition to the Indépendants group of \"Salle 41\", were exhibited works by André Lhote, Marcel Duchamp, Jacques Villon, Roger de La Fresnaye, André Dunoyer de Segonzac and František Kupka. The exhibition was reviewed in the October 8, 1911 issue of \"The New York Times\". This article was published a year after Gelett Burgess' \"The Wild Men of Paris\", and two years prior to the Armory Show, which introduced astonished Americans, accustomed to realistic art, to the experimental styles of the European avant garde, including Fauvism, Cubism, and Futurism. The 1911 \"New York Times\" article portrayed works by Picasso, Matisse, Derain, Metzinger and others dated before 1909; not exhibited at the 1911 Salon. The article was titled \"The \"Cubists\" Dominate Paris' Fall Salon\" and subtitled \"Eccentric School of Painting Increases Its Vogue in the Current Art Exhibition - What Its Followers Attempt to Do.\"\n\nThe subsequent 1912 Salon des Indépendants was marked by the presentation of Marcel Duchamp's \"Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2\", which itself caused a scandal, even amongst the Cubists. It was in fact rejected by the hanging committee, which included his brothers and other Cubists. Although the work was shown in the Salon de la Section d'Or in October 1912 and the 1913 Armory Show in New York, Duchamp never forgave his brothers and former colleagues for censoring his work. Juan Gris, a new addition to the Salon scene, exhibited his \"Portrait of Picasso\" (Art Institute of Chicago), while Metzinger's two showings included \"La Femme au Cheval (Woman with a horse)\" 1911-1912 (National Gallery of Denmark). Delaunay's monumental \"La Ville de Paris\" (Musée d'art moderne de la Ville de Paris) and Léger's \"La Noce, The Wedding\" (Musée National d'Art Moderne, Paris) were also exhibited.\n\nThe Cubist contribution to the 1912 Salon d'Automne created scandal regarding the use of government owned buildings, such as the Grand Palais, to exhibit such artwork. The indignation of the politician Jean Pierre Philippe Lampué made the front page of \"Le Journal\", 5 October 1912. The controversy spread to the Municipal Council of Paris, leading to a debate in the Chambre des Députés about the use of public funds to provide the venue for such art. The Cubists were defended by the Socialist deputy, Marcel Sembat.\n\nIt was against this background of public anger that Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes wrote \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" (published by Eugène Figuière in 1912, translated to English and Russian in 1913). Among the works exhibited were Le Fauconnier's vast composition \"Les Montagnards attaqués par des ours (Mountaineers Attacked by Bears)\" now at Rhode Island School of Design Museum, Joseph Csaky's \"Deux Femme, Two Women\" (a sculpture now lost), in addition to the highly abstract paintings by Kupka, \"Amorpha\" (The National Gallery, Prague), and Picabia, \"La Source, The Spring\" (Museum of Modern Art, New York).\n\nThe most extreme forms of Cubism were not those practiced by Picasso and Braque, who resisted total abstraction. Other Cubists, by contrast, especially František Kupka, and those considered Orphists by Apollinaire (Delaunay, Léger, Picabia and Duchamp), accepted abstraction by removing visible subject matter entirely. Kupka’s two entries at the 1912 Salon d'Automne, \"Amorpha-Fugue à deux couleurs\" and \"Amorpha chromatique chaude\", were highly abstract (or nonrepresentational) and metaphysical in orientation. Both Duchamp in 1912 and Picabia from 1912 to 1914 developed an expressive and allusive abstraction dedicated to complex emotional and sexual themes. Beginning in 1912 Delaunay painted a series of paintings entitled \"Simultaneous Windows\", followed by a series entitled \"Formes Circulaires\", in which he combined planar structures with bright prismatic hues; based on the optical characteristics of juxtaposed colors his departure from reality in the depiction of imagery was quasi-complete. In 1913–14 Léger produced a series entitled \"Contrasts of Forms\", giving a similar stress to color, line and form. His Cubism, despite its abstract qualities, was associated with themes of mechanization and modern life. Apollinaire supported these early developments of abstract Cubism in \"Les Peintres cubistes\" (1913), writing of a new \"pure\" painting in which the subject was vacated. But in spite of his use of the term Orphism these works were so different that they defy attempts to place them in a single category.\n\nAlso labeled an Orphist by Apollinaire, Marcel Duchamp was responsible for another extreme development inspired by Cubism. The ready-made arose from a joint consideration that the work itself is considered an object (just as a painting), and that it uses the material detritus of the world (as collage and papier collé in the Cubist construction and Assemblage). The next logical step, for Duchamp, was to present an ordinary object as a self-sufficient work of art representing only itself. In 1913 he attached a bicycle wheel to a kitchen stool and in 1914 selected a bottle-drying rack as a sculpture in its own right.\n\nThe \"Section d'Or\", also known as \"Groupe de Puteaux\", founded by some of the most conspicuous Cubists, was a collective of painters, sculptors and critics associated with Cubism and Orphism, active from 1911 through about 1914, coming to prominence in the wake of their controversial showing at the 1911 Salon des Indépendants. The \"Salon de la Section d'Or\" at the \"Galerie La Boétie\" in Paris, October 1912, was arguably the most important pre-World War I Cubist exhibition; exposing Cubism to a wide audience. Over 200 works were displayed, and the fact that many of the artists showed artworks representative of their development from 1909 to 1912 gave the exhibition the allure of a Cubist retrospective.\n\nThe group seems to have adopted the name Section d'Or to distinguish themselves from the narrower definition of Cubism developed in parallel by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque in the Montmartre quarter of Paris, and to show that Cubism, rather than being an isolated art-form, represented the continuation of a grand tradition (indeed, the golden ratio had fascinated Western intellectuals of diverse interests for at least 2,400 years).\n\nThe idea of the Section d'Or originated in the course of conversations between Metzinger, Gleizes and Jacques Villon. The group's title was suggested by Villon, after reading a 1910 translation of Leonardo da Vinci's \"Trattato della Pittura\" by Joséphin Péladan.\n\nThe fact that the 1912 exhibition had been curated to show the successive stages through which Cubism had developed, and that \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" had been published for the occasion, indicates the artists' intention of making their work comprehensible to a wide audience (art critics, art collectors, art dealers and the general public). Undoubtedly, due to the great success of the exhibition, Cubism became recognized as a tendency, genre or style in art with a specific common philosophy or goal.\n\nA significant modification of Cubism between 1914 and 1916 was signaled by a shift towards a strong emphasis on large overlapping geometric planes and flat surface activity. This grouping of styles of painting and sculpture, especially significant between 1917 and 1920, was practiced by several artists; particularly those under contract with the art dealer and collector Léonce Rosenberg. The tightening of the compositions, the clarity and sense of order reflected in these works, led to its being referred to by the critic Maurice Raynal as 'crystal' Cubism. Considerations manifested by Cubists prior to the outset of World War I—such as the fourth dimension, dynamism of modern life, the occult, and Henri Bergson's concept of duration—had now been vacated, replaced by a purely formal frame of reference.\n\nCrystal Cubism, and its associative \"rappel à l’ordre\", has been linked with an inclination—by those who served the armed forces and by those who remained in the civilian sector—to escape the realities of the Great War, both during and directly following the conflict. The purifying of Cubism from 1914 through the mid-1920s, with its cohesive unity and voluntary constraints, has been linked to a much broader ideological transformation towards conservatism in both French society and French culture.\n\nThe most innovative period of Cubism was before 1914. After World War I, with the support given by the dealer Léonce Rosenberg, Cubism returned as a central issue for artists, and continued as such until the mid-1920s when its avant-garde status was rendered questionable by the emergence of geometric abstraction and Surrealism in Paris. Many Cubists, including Picasso, Braque, Gris, Léger, Gleizes, and Metzinger, while developing other styles, returned periodically to Cubism, even well after 1925. Cubism reemerged during the 1920s and the 1930s in the work of the American Stuart Davis and the Englishman Ben Nicholson. In France, however, Cubism experienced a decline beginning in about 1925. Léonce Rosenberg exhibited not only the artists stranded by Kahnweiler’s exile but others including Laurens, Lipchitz, Metzinger, Gleizes, Csaky, Herbin and Severini. In 1918 Rosenberg presented a series of Cubist exhibitions at his Galerie de l’Effort Moderne in Paris. Attempts were made by Louis Vauxcelles to claim that Cubism was dead, but these exhibitions, along with a well-organized Cubist show at the 1920 Salon des Indépendants and a revival of the Salon de la Section d’Or in the same year, demonstrated it was still alive.\n\nThe reemergence of Cubism coincided with the appearance from about 1917–24 of a coherent body of theoretical writing by Pierre Reverdy, Maurice Raynal and Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler and, among the artists, by Gris, Léger and Gleizes. The occasional return to classicism—figurative work either exclusively or alongside Cubist work—experienced by many artists during this period (called Neoclassicism) has been linked to the tendency to evade the realities of the war and also to the cultural dominance of a classical or Latin image of France during and immediately following the war. Cubism after 1918 can be seen as part of a wide ideological shift towards conservatism in both French society and culture. Yet, Cubism itself remained evolutionary both within the oeuvre of individual artists, such as Gris and Metzinger, and across the work of artists as different from each other as Braque, Léger and Gleizes. Cubism as a publicly debated movement became relatively unified and open to definition. Its theoretical purity made it a gauge against which such diverse tendencies as Realism or Naturalism, Dada, Surrealism and abstraction could be compared.\n\nThe Cubism of Picasso, Braque and Gris had more than a technical or formal significance, and the distinct attitudes and intentions of the Salon Cubists produced different kinds of Cubism, rather than a derivative of their work. \"It is by no means clear, in any case,\" wrote Christopher Green, \"to what extent these other Cubists depended on Picasso and Braque for their development of such techniques as faceting, 'passage' and multiple perspective; they could well have arrived at such practices with little knowledge of 'true' Cubism in its early stages, guided above all by their own understanding of Cézanne.\" The works exhibited by these Cubists at the 1911 and 1912 Salons extended beyond the conventional Cézanne-like subjects—the posed model, still-life and landscape—favored by Picasso and Braque to include large-scale modern-life subjects. Aimed at a large public, these works stressed the use of multiple perspective and complex planar faceting for expressive effect while preserving the eloquence of subjects endowed with literary and philosophical connotations.\n\nIn \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" Metzinger and Gleizes explicitly related the sense of time to multiple perspective, giving symbolic expression to the notion of ‘duration’ proposed by the philosopher Henri Bergson according to which life is subjectively experienced as a continuum, with the past flowing into the present and the present merging into the future. The Salon Cubists used the faceted treatment of solid and space and effects of multiple viewpoints to convey a physical and psychological sense of the fluidity of consciousness, blurring the distinctions between past, present and future. One of the major theoretical innovations made by the Salon Cubists, independently of Picasso and Braque, was that of \"simultaneity\", drawing to greater or lesser extent on theories of Henri Poincaré, Ernst Mach, Charles Henry, Maurice Princet, and Henri Bergson. With simultaneity, the concept of separate spatial and temporal dimensions was comprehensively challenged. Linear perspective developed during the Renaissance was vacated. The subject matter was no longer considered from a specific point of view at a moment in time, but built following a selection of successive viewpoints, i.e., as if viewed simultaneously from numerous angles (and in multiple dimensions) with the eye free to roam from one to the other.\n\nThis technique of representing simultaneity, multiple viewpoints (or relative motion) is pushed to a high degree of complexity in Gleizes' monumental \"Le Dépiquage des Moissons (Harvest Threshing)\", exhibited at the 1912 Salon de la Section d'Or, Le Fauconnier’s \"Abundance\" shown at the Indépendants of 1911, and Delaunay's \"City of Paris\", shown at the Indépendants in 1912. These ambitious works are some of the largest paintings in the history of Cubism. Léger’s \"The Wedding\", also shown at the Salon des Indépendants in 1912, gave form to the notion of simultaneity by presenting different motifs as occurring within a single temporal frame, where responses to the past and present interpenetrate with collective force. The conjunction of such subject matter with simultaneity aligns Salon Cubism with early Futurist paintings by Umberto Boccioni, Gino Severini and Carlo Carrà; themselves made in response to early Cubism.\n\nCubism and modern European art was introduced into the United States at the now legendary 1913 Armory Show in New York City, which then traveled to Chicago and Boston. In the Armory show Pablo Picasso exhibited \"La Femme au pot de moutarde\" (1910), the sculpture \"Head of a Woman (Fernande)\" (1909–10), \"Les Arbres\" (1907) amongst other cubist works. Jacques Villon exhibited seven important and large drypoints, while his brother Marcel Duchamp shocked the American public with his painting \"Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2\" (1912). Francis Picabia exhibited his abstractions \"La Danse à la source\" and \"La Procession, Seville\" (both of 1912). Albert Gleizes exhibited \"La Femme aux phlox\" (1910) and \"L'Homme au balcon\" (1912), two highly stylized and faceted cubist works. Georges Braque, Fernand Léger, Raymond Duchamp-Villon, Roger de La Fresnaye and Alexander Archipenko also contributed examples of their cubist works.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Europeans were discovering African, Polynesian, Micronesian and Native American art. Artists such as Paul Gauguin, Henri Matisse, and Pablo Picasso were intrigued and inspired by the stark power and simplicity of styles of those foreign cultures. Around 1906, Picasso met Matisse through Gertrude Stein, at a time when both artists had recently acquired an interest in primitivism, Iberian sculpture, African art and African tribal masks. They became friendly rivals and competed with each other throughout their careers, perhaps leading to Picasso entering a new period in his work by 1907, marked by the influence of Greek, Iberian and African art. Picasso's paintings of 1907 have been characterized as Protocubism, as notably seen in \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\", the antecedent of Cubism.\nThe art historian Douglas Cooper states that Paul Gauguin and Paul Cézanne \"were particularly influential to the formation of Cubism and especially important to the paintings of Picasso during 1906 and 1907\". Cooper goes on to say: \"The \"Demoiselles\" is generally referred to as the first Cubist picture. This is an exaggeration, for although it was a major first step towards Cubism it is not yet Cubist. The disruptive, expressionist element in it is even contrary to the spirit of Cubism, which looked at the world in a detached, realistic spirit. Nevertheless, the \"Demoiselles\" is the logical picture to take as the starting point for Cubism, because it marks the birth of a new pictorial idiom, because in it Picasso violently overturned established conventions and because all that followed grew out of it.\"\n\nThe most serious objection to regarding the \"Demoiselles\" as the origin of Cubism, with its evident influence of primitive art, is that \"such deductions are unhistorical\", wrote the art historian Daniel Robbins. This familiar explanation \"fails to give adequate consideration to the complexities of a flourishing art that existed just before and during the period when Picasso's new painting developed.\" Between 1905 and 1908, a conscious search for a new style caused rapid changes in art across France, Germany, Holland, Italy, and Russia. The Impressionists had used a double point of view, and both Les Nabis and the Symbolists (who also admired Cézanne) flattened the picture plane, reducing their subjects to simple geometric forms. Neo-Impressionist structure and subject matter, most notably to be seen in the works of Georges Seurat (e.g., \"Parade de Cirque\", \"Le Chahut\" and \"Le Cirque\"), was another important influence. There were also parallels in the development of literature and social thought.\n\nIn addition to Seurat, the roots of cubism are to be found in the two distinct tendencies of Cézanne's later work: first his breaking of the painted surface into small multifaceted areas of paint, thereby emphasizing the plural viewpoint given by binocular vision, and second his interest in the simplification of natural forms into cylinders, spheres, and cones. However, the cubists explored this concept further than Cézanne. They represented all the surfaces of depicted objects in a single picture plane, as if the objects had all their faces visible at the same time. This new kind of depiction revolutionized the way objects could be visualized in painting and art.\nThe historical study of Cubism began in the late 1920s, drawing at first from sources of limited data, namely the opinions of Guillaume Apollinaire. It came to rely heavily on Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler's book \"Der Weg zum Kubismus\" (published in 1920), which centered on the developments of Picasso, Braque, Léger, and Gris. The terms \"analytical\" and \"synthetic\" which subsequently emerged have been widely accepted since the mid-1930s. Both terms are historical impositions that occurred after the facts they identify. Neither phase was designated as such at the time corresponding works were created. \"If Kahnweiler considers Cubism as Picasso and Braque,\" wrote Daniel Robbins, \"our only fault is in subjecting other Cubists' works to the rigors of that limited definition.\"\n\nThe traditional interpretation of \"Cubism\", formulated \"post facto\" as a means of understanding the works of Braque and Picasso, has affected our appreciation of other twentieth-century artists. It is difficult to apply to painters such as Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Robert Delaunay and Henri Le Fauconnier, whose fundamental differences from traditional Cubism compelled Kahnweiler to question whether to call them Cubists at all. According to Daniel Robbins, \"To suggest that merely because these artists developed differently or varied from the traditional pattern they deserved to be relegated to a secondary or satellite role in Cubism is a profound mistake.\"\n\nThe history of the term \"Cubism\" usually stresses the fact that Matisse referred to \"cubes\" in connection with a painting by Braque in 1908, and that the term was published twice by the critic Louis Vauxcelles in a similar context. However, the word \"cube\" was used in 1906 by another critic, Louis Chassevent, with reference not to Picasso or Braque but rather to Metzinger and Delaunay:\n\nThe critical use of the word \"cube\" goes back at least to May 1901 when Jean Béral, reviewing the work of Henri-Edmond Cross at the Indépendants in \"Art et Littérature\", commented that he \"uses a large and square pointillism, giving the impression of mosaic. One even wonders why the artist has not used cubes of solid matter diversely colored: they would make pretty revetments.\" (Robert Herbert, 1968, p. 221)\n\nThe term Cubism did not come into general usage until 1911, mainly with reference to Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, and Léger. In 1911, the poet and critic Guillaume Apollinaire accepted the term on behalf of a group of artists invited to exhibit at the Brussels Indépendants. The following year, in preparation for the Salon de la Section d'Or, Metzinger and Gleizes wrote and published \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" in an effort to dispel the confusion raging around the word, and as a major defence of Cubism (which had caused a public scandal following the 1911 Salon des Indépendants and the 1912 Salon d'Automne in Paris). Clarifying their aims as artists, this work was the first theoretical treatise on Cubism and it still remains the clearest and most intelligible. The result, not solely a collaboration between its two authors, reflected discussions by the circle of artists who met in Puteaux and Courbevoie. It mirrored the attitudes of the \"artists of Passy\", which included Picabia and the Duchamp brothers, to whom sections of it were read prior to publication. The concept developed in \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" of observing a subject from different points in space and time simultaneously, i.e., the act of moving around an object to seize it from several successive angles fused into a single image (multiple viewpoints, mobile perspective, simultaneity or multiplicity), is a generally recognized device used by the Cubists.\n\nThe 1912 manifetso \"Du \"Cubisme\"\" by Metzinger and Gleizes was followed in 1913 by \"Les Peintres Cubistes\", a collection of reflections and commentaries by Guillaume Apollinaire. Apollinaire had been closely involved with Picasso beginning in 1905, and Braque beginning in 1907, but gave as much attention to artists such as Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, Picabia, and Duchamp.\n\nJust as in painting, Cubist sculpture is rooted in Paul Cézanne's reduction of painted objects into component planes and geometric solids (cubes, spheres, cylinders, and cones). And just as in painting, it became a pervasive influence and contributed fundamentally to Constructivism and Futurism.\n\nCubist sculpture developed in parallel to Cubist painting. During the autumn of 1909 Picasso sculpted \"Head of a Woman (Fernande)\" with positive features depicted by negative space and vice versa. According to Douglas Cooper: \"The first true Cubist sculpture was Picasso's impressive \"Woman's Head\", modeled in 1909–10, a counterpart in three dimensions to many similar analytical and faceted heads in his paintings at the time.\" These positive/negative reversals were ambitiously exploited by Alexander Archipenko in 1912–13, for example in \"Woman Walking\". Joseph Csaky, after Archipenko, was the first sculptor in Paris to join the Cubists, with whom he exhibited from 1911 onwards. They were followed by Raymond Duchamp-Villon and then in 1914 by Jacques Lipchitz, Henri Laurens and Ossip Zadkine.\n\nIndeed, Cubist construction was as influential as any pictorial Cubist innovation. It was the stimulus behind the proto-Constructivist work of both Naum Gabo and Vladimir Tatlin and thus the starting-point for the entire constructive tendency in 20th-century modernist sculpture.\n\nCubism formed an important link between early-20th-century art and architecture. The historical, theoretical, and socio-political relationships between avant-garde practices in painting, sculpture and architecture had early ramifications in France, Germany, the Netherlands and Czechoslovakia. Though there are many points of intersection between Cubism and architecture, only a few direct links between them can be drawn. Most often the connections are made by reference to shared formal characteristics: faceting of form, spatial ambiguity, transparency, and multiplicity.\n\nArchitectural interest in Cubism centered on the dissolution and reconstitution of three-dimensional form, using simple geometric shapes, juxtaposed without the illusions of classical perspective. Diverse elements could be superimposed, made transparent or penetrate one another, while retaining their spatial relationships. Cubism had become an influential factor in the development of modern architecture from 1912 (\"La Maison Cubiste\", by Raymond Duchamp-Villon and André Mare) onwards, developing in parallel with architects such as Peter Behrens and Walter Gropius, with the simplification of building design, the use of materials appropriate to industrial production, and the increased use of glass.\nCubism was relevant to an architecture seeking a style that needed not refer to the past. Thus, what had become a revolution in both painting and sculpture was applied as part of \"a profound reorientation towards a changed world\". The Cubo-Futurist ideas of Filippo Tommaso Marinetti influenced attitudes in avant-garde architecture. The influential De Stijl movement embraced the aesthetic principles of Neo-plasticism developed by Piet Mondrian under the influence of Cubism in Paris. De Stijl was also linked by Gino Severini to Cubist theory through the writings of Albert Gleizes. However, the linking of basic geometric forms with inherent beauty and ease of industrial application—which had been prefigured by Marcel Duchamp from 1914—was left to the founders of Purism, Amédée Ozenfant and Charles-Édouard Jeanneret (better known as Le Corbusier,) who exhibited paintings together in Paris and published \"Après le cubisme\" in 1918. Le Corbusier's ambition had been to translate the properties of his own style of Cubism to architecture. Between 1918 and 1922, Le Corbusier concentrated his efforts on Purist theory and painting. In 1922, Le Corbusier and his cousin Jeanneret opened a studio in Paris at 35 rue de Sèvres. His theoretical studies soon advanced into many different architectural projects.\n\nAt the 1912 Salon d'Automne an architectural installation was exhibited that quickly became known as \"Maison Cubiste\" (Cubist House), signed Raymond Duchamp-Villon and André Mare along with a group of collaborators. Metzinger and Gleizes in \"Du \"Cubisme\"\", written during the assemblage of the \"Maison Cubiste\", wrote about the autonomous nature of art, stressing the point that decorative considerations should not govern the spirit of art. Decorative work, to them, was the \"antithesis of the picture\". \"The true picture\" wrote Metzinger and Gleizes, \"bears its \"raison d'être\" within itself. It can be moved from a church to a drawing-room, from a museum to a study. Essentially independent, necessarily complete, it need not immediately satisfy the mind: on the contrary, it should lead it, little by little, towards the fictitious depths in which the coordinative light resides. It does not harmonize with this or that ensemble; it harmonizes with things in general, with the universe: it is an organism...\".\n\"Mare's ensembles were accepted as frames for Cubist works because they allowed paintings and sculptures their independence\", writes Christopher Green, \"creating a play of contrasts, hence the involvement not only of Gleizes and Metzinger themselves, but of Marie Laurencin, the Duchamp brothers (Raymond Duchamp-Villon designed the facade) and Mare's old friends Léger and Roger La Fresnaye\". \"La Maison Cubiste\" was a fully furnished house, with a staircase, wrought iron banisters, a living room—the \"Salon Bourgeois\", where paintings by Marcel Duchamp, Metzinger (\"Woman with a Fan\"), Gleizes, Laurencin and Léger were hung—and a bedroom. It was an example of \"L'art décoratif\", a home within which Cubist art could be displayed in the comfort and style of modern, bourgeois life. Spectators at the Salon d'Automne passed through the full-scale 10-by-3-meter plaster model of the ground floor of the facade, designed by Duchamp-Villon. This architectural installation was subsequently exhibited at the 1913 Armory Show, New York, Chicago and Boston, listed in the catalogue of the New York exhibit as Raymond Duchamp-Villon, number 609, and entitled \"Facade architectural, plaster\" (\"Façade architecturale\").\n\nSeveral years after World War I, in 1927, Cubists Joseph Csaky, Jacques Lipchitz, Louis Marcoussis, Henri Laurens, the sculptor Gustave Miklos, and others collaborated in the decoration of a Studio House, rue Saint-James, Neuilly-sur-Seine, designed by the architect Paul Ruaud and owned by the French fashion designer Jacques Doucet, also a collector of Post-Impressionist and Cubist paintings (including \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\", which he bought directly from Picasso's studio). Laurens designed the fountain, Csaky designed Doucet's staircase, Lipchitz made the fireplace mantel, and Marcoussis made a Cubist rug.\n\nThe original Cubist architecture is very rare. There is only one country in the world where Cubism was really applied to architecture – namely Bohemia (today Czech Republic) and especially its capital, Prague. Czech architects were the first and only ones in the world to ever design original Cubist buildings. Cubist architecture flourished for the most part between 1910–1914, but the Cubist or Cubism-influenced buildings were also built after the World War I. After the war, the architectural style called \"Rondo-Cubism\" was developed in Prague fusing the Cubist architecture with round shapes.\nIn their theoretical rules, the Cubist architects expressed the requirement of dynamism, which would surmount the matter and calm contained in it, through a creative idea, so that the result would evoke feelings of dynamism and expressive plasticity in the viewer. This should be achieved by shapes derived from pyramids, cubes and prisms, by arrangements and compositions of oblique surfaces, mainly triangular, sculpted facades in protruding crystal-like units, reminiscent of the so-called diamond cut, or even cavernous that are reminiscent of the late Gothic architecture. In this way, the entire surfaces of the facades including even the gables and dormers are sculpted. The grilles as well as other architectural ornaments attain a three-dimensional form. Thus, new forms of windows and doors were also created, e. g. hexagonal windows. Czech Cubist architects also designed Cubist furniture.\n\nThe leading Cubist architects were Pavel Janák, Josef Gočár, Vlastislav Hofman, Emil Králíček and Josef Chochol. They worked mostly in Prague but also in other Bohemian towns. The best-known Cubist building is the House of the Black Madonna in the Old Town of Prague built in 1912 by Josef Gočár with the only Cubist café in the world, Grand Café Orient. Vlastislav Hofman built the entrance pavilions of Ďáblice Cemetery in 1912–1914, Josef Chochol designed several residential houses under Vyšehrad. A Cubist streetlamp has also been preserved near the Wenceslas Square, designed by Emil Králíček in 1912, who also built the Diamond House in the New Town of Prague around 1913.\n\nThe influence of cubism extended to other artistic fields, outside painting and sculpture. In literature, the written works of Gertrude Stein employ repetition and repetitive phrases as building blocks in both passages and whole chapters. Most of Stein's important works utilize this technique, including the novel \"The Making of Americans\" (1906–08). Not only were they the first important patrons of Cubism, Gertrude Stein and her brother Leo were also important influences on Cubism as well. Picasso in turn was an important influence on Stein's writing.\n\nIn the field of American fiction, William Faulkner's 1930 novel \"As I Lay Dying\" can be read as an interaction with the cubist mode. The novel features narratives of the diverse experiences of 15 characters which, when taken together, produce a single cohesive body.\n\nThe poets generally associated with Cubism are Guillaume Apollinaire, Blaise Cendrars, Jean Cocteau, Max Jacob, André Salmon and Pierre Reverdy. As American poet Kenneth Rexroth explains, Cubism in poetry \"is the conscious, deliberate dissociation and recombination of elements into a new artistic entity made self-sufficient by its rigorous architecture. This is quite different from the free association of the Surrealists and the combination of unconscious utterance and political nihilism of Dada.\" Nonetheless, the Cubist poets' influence on both Cubism and the later movements of Dada and Surrealism was profound; Louis Aragon, founding member of Surrealism, said that for Breton, Soupault, Éluard and himself, Reverdy was \"our immediate elder, the exemplary poet.\" Though not as well remembered as the Cubist painters, these poets continue to influence and inspire; American poets John Ashbery and Ron Padgett have recently produced new translations of Reverdy's work. Wallace Stevens' \"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird\" is also said to demonstrate how cubism's multiple perspectives can be translated into poetry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39021271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39021271", "title": "DaDaFest", "text": "DaDaFest\n\nDaDaFest is a disability arts organisation based in Liverpool, UK. It delivers an international, biennial festival and organises other events to promote disability and deaf arts from a variety of cultural perspectives. Alongside the festival and events, DaDaFest organises opportunities for disabled and deaf people to gain access to the arts. This includes training and a youth focused programme.\n\nDaDaFest is funded by Arts Council England and Liverpool City Council as well as other private and public sector partners.\n\nDaDaFest was founded as \"Arts Integrated Merseyside\" (or AIM) as a part of the Shape Arts network in 1984. AIM was integral to the early campaign for greater equality and access for disabled people, but was not disability led.\n\nWith John McGrath as its Development Officer, the organisation became one of the UK's first disability control-led arts forums after it broke away from the Shape Network and set itself up as \"North West Disability Arts Forum\" (NWDAF) in 1986. It was formally constituted in 1990, with Mandy Colleran becoming its director. The organisation eventually re-branded itself to 'DaDa - Disability and Deaf Arts' in 2008 and again to 'DaDaFest' in 2012.\n\nDaDaFest delivered its first international festival in 2001 and continued to put on yearly festivals until 2010 when it became a biennial. The festival has since taken place in 2012 and 2014 (8 November 2014 – 11 January 2015). The next DaDaFest International festival will take place from 18 November to 3 December 2016.\n\nThe organisation works with a number of partners to deliver the festival. These include: National Museums Liverpool, Liverpool Biennial, The Bluecoat, Liverpool Everyman, Liverpool Playhouse, FACT, Unity Theatre and Royal Liverpool Philharmonic amongst others.\n\nDaDaFest International 2014 presented high quality and exciting work produced by artists close to their home in Liverpool as well as internationally that will challenge ideals and celebrate disability culture. An exciting programme of music, dance, live arts, comedy and much more was presented.\" Highlights included:\n\nDaDaFest International 2014 presented a \"breathtaking array of high quality disability and Deaf arts from around the world.\" Highlights included: \n\nThe 2012 festival brought together a large collection of exhibitions and performances. These included: \n\nIn 2010, DaDaFest celebrated their tenth year. The 2010 programme explored the theme of Objects of Curiosity and Desire, investigating identity and our place in an ever-changing world. \nHighlights included: \n\nWhile the festival every two years may be the main attention of the organisation, DaDaFest also organises various projects and initiatives outside of the festival programme.\nProjects that DaDaFest has organised or is currently organising are:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57626678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57626678", "title": "De Brug van Willebroek", "text": "De Brug van Willebroek\n\nDe Brug van Willebroek (\"The Bridge of Willebroek\") is a 1990 song by Wannes Van de Velde about the bridge near the Brussels–Scheldt Maritime Canal in the Flemish village Willebroek. The song has also been covered by the Antwerp band Katastroof. \n\nThe lyrics describe a man who has two appointments, one at the royal palace, another with Jane Fonda and yet another with the Flemish government who offer him a position in the Ministry of Culture. Yet he fails to get at each of these appointments, because he has to cross the canal and the bridge happens to be closed every time he reaches it. It frustrates him so much that he calls it a \"monster van ijzer and staal\" (\"a monster of iron and steel\"). The final lyrics have him reflect that if God ever tells him it's time to die he'll try to go the bridge of Willebroek, so he'll have an excuse why he was late. \n\nThe song is used as a waiting tune for the telephone lines of the city council of Willebroek. In 2011 there was talk of raising a statue of Van de Velde near the bridge of Willebroek, but his family vetoed the idea. \n"}
{"id": "49271092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49271092", "title": "Denise Epoté", "text": "Denise Epoté\n\nDenise Laurence Djengué Epoté, (born 22 November 1954 at Nkongsamba) in Cameroon is a Cameroonian journalist at the head of the Africa management of TV5 Monde.\n\nShe was the first journalist to present the news in French on national public television, Cameroon Television (CTV), which later became the Cameroon Radio Television (CRTV).\n\nBorn on 22 November 1954, her father, Jean Claude Epoté is official, and Financial Comptroller, and his mother worked Mizpah Florina Mbella treasure Douala. Both are now retired.\n\nEldest of a family of two girls and two boys, after her secondary education at Lycée Général Leclerc in Yaounde, she was admitted with flying colors at the prestigious International School of Journalism in Yaoundé (ESUY) today renowned Graduate School of Science and Yaounde techniques of information and communication. In 1991, she married the deputy director of the great works of Cameroon at the time, Mr. Durand; they were divorced.\n\nIn 1981, she began her career at Radio Cameroon. In 1985, she became the first female presenter of 8:30 p.m. on the Cameroon national chain. With its English-speaking colleague Eric Chinje, they will present the news from 1985 to 1993. After leaving the Cameroon Radio Television (CRTV) in 1993, she then moved to TV5 Monde and Radio France International.\n\nIn February 2010, she was invited and honored during the 4th edition of the Night of builders.\n\nSince 1999, Denise Epoté hosted a weekly show \"and if you tell me the whole truth.\" This show is a forum open to all those who are interested in the future of Africa. In this audiovisual sequence, Denise, accompanied by a guest, addresses the most current issues in Africa.\n\nIn 2009, to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the show, Denise receives President of Mali, Amadou Toumani Touré. At that time, the program has already passed 200 guests. Since its launch, she has interviewed numerous personalities including Andry Rajoelina, Omar Bongo Ondimba, James Alix Michel, General Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, and Aminata Traoré.\n\nShe also runs on TV5MONDE, \"Africa press\"; a program in which the floor is given to journalists from Libération Journal, where they discuss the news of the Africa.\n\nOn Sunday she shares her vision of the African news from the past week through weekly column \"Week Denise Epoté\" on Radio France Internationale.\n\nSince the beginning of her career, Denise Epoté has already received numerous awards. In 2001 in Abuja, Denise received the award for best television reporter Panafrican Broadcasting Heritage and Achievement Awards. In May 2013, she was raised in the Legion of Honor. A distinction that comes seven years after being awarded the title of Knight of the National Order of Merit.\nShe is also an officer of Arts and Letters from Burkina Faso, Knight of the Order of National Merit of Senegal and Cameroon Knight of the National Order of Merit.\nIn early 2014, it ranks among the hundred most influential personalities in the rankings in Forbes New African and Africa.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3076453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076453", "title": "Double church", "text": "Double church\n\nA Double church, or twin church, is a church design found in Byzantine architecture. The double church design of the Üçayak Byzantine Church features double naves standing side by side and separated by a common wall. The twin church design at Üçayak has two naves each with a separate semi-circular apse. Each apse includes a rectangular bay in front of it.\n"}
{"id": "23278552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23278552", "title": "Eadwine Psalter", "text": "Eadwine Psalter\n\nThe Eadwine Psalter or Eadwin Psalter is a heavily illuminated 12th-century psalter named after the scribe Eadwine, a monk of Christ Church, Canterbury (now Canterbury Cathedral), who was perhaps the \"project manager\" for the large and exceptional book. The manuscript belongs to Trinity College, Cambridge (MS R.17.1) and is kept in the Wren Library. It contains the Book of Psalms in three languages: three versions in Latin, with Old English & Anglo-Norman translations, and has been called the most ambitious manuscript produced in England in the twelfth century. As far as the images are concerned, most of the book is an adapted copy, using a more contemporary style, of the Carolingian Utrecht Psalter, which was at Canterbury for a period in the Middle Ages. There is also a very famous full-page miniature showing Eadwine at work, which is highly unusual and possibly a self-portrait.\n\nIn addition to this, there is a prefatory cycle of four folios, so eight pages, fully decorated with a series of miniatures in compartments showing the \"Life of Christ\", with parables and some Old Testament scenes. These pages, and perhaps at least one other, were removed from the main manuscript at some point and are now in the British Library, Victoria and Albert Museum (with one each), and two in the Morgan Library in New York.\n\nIt was produced around the mid-century, perhaps 1155–60, and perhaps in two main campaigns of work, one in the 1150s and the other the decade after. It was sometimes called the \"Canterbury Psalter\" in the past, as in the 1935 monograph by M. R. James, but this is now avoided, if only to avoid confusion with other manuscripts, including the closely related Harley Psalter and the Great Canterbury Psalter (or Anglo-Catalan Psalter, Paris Psalter), which are also copies made in Canterbury of the Utrecht Psalter.\n\nThe book is large, with 281 vellum folios or leaves (two-sided) in Cambridge, measuring an average . The four detached leaves have presumably been trimmed and are now 400–405 mm x 292–300 mm. The texts are: \"a calendar, triple Metrical Psalms ... canticles, two continuous commentaries, two prognostications\".\n\nThe three main different Latin versions of the Psalms are given side by side. In the order they occur on the verso pages, these are the \"Gallican\" version, a translation from the Greek Septuagint which was used by most of the Western church, the \"Roman\", the Gallican version as corrected by Saint Jerome from the Hebrew Bible, which was used by churches in Rome, but was also an Anglo-Saxon favourite, especially at Canterbury. Last comes the \"Hebrew\" version, or \"Versio juxta Hebraicum\", Jerome's translation from the Hebrew Bible. The columns reverse their sequence on recto pages, so that the Gallican column, which has a larger text size, is always nearest the edge of the page, and the Hebrew nearest the bound edge.\n\nBetween the lines of the text of the psalms, the \"Hebrew\" version has a translation into contemporary Norman-French, which represents the oldest surviving text of the psalms in French, the \"Roman\" version has a translation into Old English, and the \"Gallican\" version has Latin notes. The Hebrew version was \"a scholarly rather than a liturgical text\", and related more to continental scholarly interests, especially those at Fleury Abbey.\n\nThere are a number of Psalters with comparable Latin texts, and a number of luxury illuminated psalters, but the combination in a single manuscript of the scholarly \"psalterium triplex\" with a very large programme of illumination, and translations into two vernacular languages, is unique. The psalter was \"a tool for study and teaching\" rather than a display manuscript for the altar.\n\nThe Old English translation contains a number of errors which \"have been explained as the result of uncritical copying of an archaic text at a time when the language was no longer in current use\".\n\nThe manuscript is the most extensively decorated 12th-century English manuscript. There are 166 pen drawings with watercolour (a traditional Anglo-Saxon style), based on their counterparts in \"Utrecht\", which lack colour. There are also the four painted leaves, now detached, with the biblical cycle, with some 130 scenes; there may have been at least one more page originally. These may be referred to as the \"Picture Leaves\". At the end of the book there is the full-page portrait of Eadwine, followed by drawings with colour showing Christ Church, Canterbury and its water channels, one over a full opening, and the other more schematic and on a single page. These are thought to be at least afterthoughts, added to what were intended as blank flyleaves, as found in a number of other manuscripts. Throughout the text very many initials are decorated, with over 500 \"major\" initials fully painted with gold highlights, mostly at the first letter of each of the three text versions of each psalm.\n\nThe prefatory miniature cycle is divided stylistically. Of the eight pages, six and a half are in one style, but most of the Victoria and Albert folio in another. This is usually thought to mark a change of artist. The two styles can be related to those of the St Albans Psalter and the Lambeth Bible respectively. Though comparison with the \"Utrecht\"-derived images in Cambridge is complicated by the different technique and the many stylistic features retained from the original, the first artist seems closest to these.\n\nThe idea of such a cycle was already about, and one key exemplar was probably the 6th-century Italian St Augustine Gospels, a key relic of the founder of the cathedral's rival St Augustine's Abbey, Canterbury, where it then was, though it has also since found its way to a Cambridge college. This has one surviving page (of an original three, at least) with compartmented scenes of the life of Christ, which include many miracles and incidents from the ministry of Jesus rarely depicted by the High Middle Ages. The \"Eadwine\" pages include one of these scenes, from the start of Luke 9, 58 (and Matthew 8, 20): \"et ait illi Iesus vulpes foveas habent et volucres caeli nidos Filius autem hominis non habet ubi caput reclinet\" – \"Jesus said to him: The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air nests: but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.\" For the iconography of the prefatory cycle, see below.\n\nThe copies of \"Utrecht\" images are compressed to fit the different format, but generally rather close. However, the sense of the landscape setting suffers considerably. Kenneth Clark commented that \"the Utrecht Psalter is full of landscape motives taken from Hellenistic painting, and its impressionistic scribbles still imply a sense of light and space. There is no simpler way to show the triumph of symbol over sensation in the middle ages than to compare its pages with [their Eadwine Psalter equivalents].\"\n\nIt is unclear who Eadwine was and what role he played in the creation of the manuscript; the documentary traces of monastic Eadwines (and Edwins and Adwins etc) of about the right time and place are few, and hard to fit to the facts and statements of the manuscript. The inscription around the portrait declares that he is \"sriptorum princeps\" (sic), \"prince of scribes\" (or \"first among scribes\"), so he was probably one of the many scribes working on the manuscript, but probably also playing the main role in deciding the contents and organizing the work. He may also have paid for it, though he was certainly not the prior of Canterbury at the time, as these are all known, and Wybert or Wibert (r. 1153–1167) was prior for the most likely periods for the book's creation.\n\nHis portrait is clearly of the conventional type of an author portrait, at this period most often seen in evangelist portraits at the start of the Gospels. These look right or forward to the pages following containing their work. Eadwine's is placed at the end of the book, after the text, so he looks left, back over it.\n\nAs recorded by M. R. James:\"The following inscription in green and red capitals surrounds the picture beginning at the top on L.\nSCRIPTOR (supply loquitur). SRIPTORUM (sic) PRINCEPS EGO NEC OBITURA DEINCEPS\nLAVS MEA NEC FAMA. QVIS SIM MEA LITTERA CLAMA.\nLITTERA. TE TVA SRIPTVRA QUEM SIGNAT PICTA FIGURA Ɵ-\n(top L. again). -Ɵ PREDICAT EADWINVM FAMA PER SECULA VIVUM.\nINGENIUM CVIVS LIBRI DECUS INDICAT HVIVS.\nQVEM TIBI SEQUE DATVM MVNVS DEUS ACCIPE GRATVM.\"\n\nwhich translates as: \nScribe: I am the chief of scribes, and neither my praise nor fame shall die; shout out, oh my letter, who I may be. Letter: By its fame your script proclaims you, Eadwine, whom the painted figure represents, alive through the ages, whose genius the beauty of this book demonstrates. Receive, O God, the book and its donor as an acceptable gift.\n\nThe portrait, and the waterworks drawings that follow it, have sometimes been seen as later additions, though more recent scholarship is moving away from this view. The portrait might then be a memorial added to commemorate a notable figure of the monastery in a book he had been closely associated with, with the waterworks drawings also acting as a memorial to Prior Wibert, who had done considerable work on the water system. Some scholars see both aspects of the script and the portrait as evoking Eadwig Basan, the most famous of English scribes (and perhaps also the artist of the miniatures in his manuscripts), who was a monk at Christ Church Canterbury over a century earlier, in the last decades of Anglo-Saxon England.\n\nAt least ten scribes contributed to the texts, at least five of them contributing to the Old English text, and at least six artists, who may overlap with the scribes. It is difficult to tell many of these apart. It seems likely that Eadwine contributed to the scribing, but his hand cannot be confidently identified. However, at least according to T. A. Heslop, the bulk of the illumination, over 80% of the prefatory cycle and over 90% of the miniatures in the psalms and canticles, is by a single artist, who he calls the \"Principal Illuminator\". To Heslop, the diverse styles and limited \"guest appearances\" of the other artists suggests that they are mobile laymen employed for the task by the monastery, of the sort who were even at this early date beginning to take over the illumination of manuscripts.\n\nThe dating of the manuscript has been much discussed, mainly on stylistic grounds (regarding both the script and the illustrations), within the broad range 1130–1170. On folio 10 there is a marginal drawing of a comet, with a note in Old English (in which it is a \"hairy star\") that it is an augury; following the comet of 1066 the English evidently took comets seriously. This was thought to relate to the appearance of Halley's Comet in 1145, but another of 14 May 1147 is recorded in the Christ Church Annals, and the 1145 one is not. There were further comets recorded in 1165 and 1167, so the evidence from astronomy has not settled the question. Such a large undertaking would have taken many years to complete; the Anglo-Catalan Psalter was left unfinished in England, like many other ambitious manuscript projects.\n\nThe current broad consensus is to date most of the book to 1155–60, but the portrait of Eadwine and the waterworks drawings to perhaps a decade later. The large waterworks drawing shows the cathedral as it was before the major fire of 1174, which provoked the introduction of Gothic architecture to the cathedral, when William of Sens was brought in to rebuild the choir. The period also saw the momentous murder of Thomas Becket in 1170, and his rapid canonization as a saint in 1173; however his feast day is not included in the calendar.\n\nThe book is included in the catalogue of the library of Christ Church made in Prior Eastry's inventory in the early fourteenth-century. It was given by Thomas Nevile, Dean of Canterbury Cathedral, to Trinity College, Cambridge in the early seventeenth-century, presumably without the prefatory folios, which are thought to have been removed around this time. The binding is 17th-century.\nBy the early 19th century the detached folios were in the collection of William Young Ottley, the British Museum's print curator and a significant art collector, but no admirer of medieval art. At the sale in 1838, after his death in 1836, the sheets were individual lots and bought by different buyers. The Victoria and Albert Museum's sheet fetched two guineas (£2 and 2 shillings). It was bought by the museum in 1894. One of the two sheets in the Morgan Library passed through various hands and was bought by J.P. Morgan in 1911 and the other was added in 1927, after his death. The British Museum bought their sheet in 1857.\n\nAll the surviving parts of the original manuscript were reunited in the exhibition \"English Romanesque Art, 1066–1200\" in London in 1984, though the catalogue entries, by Michael Kauffmann, did not relate the loose sheets to the main Cambridge manuscript, although Hanns Swarzenski in 1938 and C. R. Dodwell in 1954 had already proposed this.\n\nThese pages \"contain by far the largest New Testament cycle produced in England or anywhere else in the 12th century\", with some 150 scenes. The emphasis on the miracles and parables of Christ was most untypical in Romanesque cycles in general, which concentrated almost exclusively on the events commemorated by the feast days of the liturgical calendar. Ottonian cycles such as that in the Codex Aureus of Echternach still show the miracles and parables, but the cycle here has more scenes than any Ottonian one. Sources for the selection of scenes are probably considerably older than the 12th century, and might possibly go back as far as the St Augustine Gospels, of about 600, which were then at Canterbury, and no doubt more complete than now, or a similar very early cycle.\n\nOn the other hand George Henderson argued that the cycle may have been planned specially for the Eadwine Psalter, based on direct reading of the bible, with the New Testament scenes sometimes \"following the sequence of a particular gospel, at times constructing an intelligent first-hand synthesis of more than one gospel.\"\n\nThere is usually thought to have been a fifth sheet covering the Book of Genesis, especially as there is one in the Great Canterbury/Anglo-Catalan Psalter, which has a closely similar cycle. The emphasis on the life of David, who appears in 5 scenes, as well as the Tree of Jesse, is appropriate for the figure regarded as the author of the psalms.\n\nAll the pages use a basic framework of twelve square compartments divided by borders, which may contain a single scene, or several. In the latter case, usually they are divided horizontally to give two wide spaces. Within these two or more scenes may be contained without formally interrupting the picture space. The scenes shown can be summarized as:\n\nMorgan Library, M 724\n\nBritish Library\n\nMorgan Library, M 521\n\nVictoria and Albert Museum\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40199750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40199750", "title": "Emamzadeh Haroun-e-Velayat", "text": "Emamzadeh Haroun-e-Velayat\n\nEmamzadeh Haroun-e-Velayat () is an imamzadeh in Isfahan, Iran. It is located opposite Ali minaret and belongs to the Ismail I era. There are many relations about the person, who is buried in it. Some say that he is the sixth Imam's son and some others say, he is the tenth Imam's son, but aside from the matter, who is buried in it, it is the most important historical structure related to the early Safavid era. Beyond the tomb it has also a portico, a tiled dome and a large yard. It seems that some repairments and improvements have been done in the Fath-Ali Shah era.\n"}
{"id": "43266369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43266369", "title": "Emamzadeh Panje Shah", "text": "Emamzadeh Panje Shah\n\nThe Emamzadeh Panje Shah is an imamzadeh in Kashan, Iran. The imamzadeh has been a sacred place since the early islamic centuries. It was also in the past one of the safest sanctuary places and if a criminal had taken sanctuary in the imamzadeh, nobody dared to take him out by force. The Emamzadeh Panje Shah belongs to the Seljuq era, but its internal decorations belong mostly to the Qajar era. this structure is apparently the buried place of one of the Musa al-Kadhim's son. It has a conical dome, a yard, an iwan, several porticoes and a big wooden sepulcher.\n\nThere is a minaret beside the northern portal of the yard. The entrance of the tomb has an marbly inscription. On the inscription, it has been written an ode for praising the buried Imamzadeh. There are also other old graves in the structure. Two of them are on the both sides of the portico. It is said that one of the graves belongs to the Malik al-Ashtar's daughter, Safieh Khatun.\n\n"}
{"id": "4668387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4668387", "title": "Hacks at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology", "text": "Hacks at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology\n\nHacks at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are practical jokes and pranks meant to prominently demonstrate technical aptitude and cleverness, or to commemorate popular culture and historical topics. The pranks are anonymously installed at night by hackers, usually, but not exclusively, undergraduate students. The actions of hackers are governed by an extensive and informal body of precedent, tradition, and ethics. Hacks can occur anywhere across campus, or occasionally off campus; many make use of the iconic Great Dome, Little Dome, Green Building tower, or other prominent architectural features of the MIT campus. Well-known hacker alumni include Nobel Laureates Richard P. Feynman and George F. Smoot. In October 2009, US President Barack Obama made a humorous reference to the MIT hacking tradition during an on-campus speech about clean energy.\n\nAlthough the practice is unsanctioned by the university, and students have sometimes been arraigned on trespassing charges for hacking, hacks have substantial significance to MIT's history and student culture. Student bloggers working for the MIT Admissions Office have often written about MIT hacks, including those occurring during Campus Preview Weekend (CPW), an event welcoming admitted prospective freshman students. Alumni bloggers on the MIT Alumni Association website also report and document some of the more memorable hacks. Since the mid-1970s, the student-written guide \"How To Get Around MIT (HowToGAMIT)\" has included a chapter on hacking, and discusses history, hacker groups, ethics, safety tips, and risks of the activity.\n\nFor a decade, the MIT Museum included a \"Hall of Hacks\" featuring famous MIT hacks, but the section was closed in 2001, temporarily returning for a 2003 exhibition. In 2011, the display space was reallocated to the \"MIT 150\" exhibition, a year-long show commemorating MIT's 150th anniversary. Although hacks were not featured in the exhibit, certain student activities such as the Annual Baker House Piano Drop were featured in the exhibition. The Museum's extensive collection of hacker artifacts and documentation continues to be preserved and expanded, with a selection of larger relics from past hacks plus explanatory panels and plaques semi-permanently displayed inside the Stata Center. This mini-exhibit on hacks is located on the ground floor of the Stata Center, near the cafeteria at the southeastern end of the complex, and may be viewed by visitors during normal office hours.\n\nFamous hacks include a weather balloon labeled \"MIT\" appearing at the 50-yard line at the Harvard/Yale football game in 1982, the placing of a campus police cruiser on the roof of the Great Dome, converting the Great Dome into R2-D2 or a large yellow ring to acknowledge the release of \"\" and \"\" respectively, or placing full-sized replicas of the Wright Flyer and a fire truck to acknowledge the anniversaries of first powered controlled flight and the September 11th attacks respectively.\n\nAt MIT, the terms \"hack\" and \"hacker\" have many shades of meaning, though they are closely linked historically and culturally with computer hacking (in its original non-computer-cracker sense), collegiate practical jokes, and even culture jamming. The origin of this usage is unknown, but it seems to have been widespread at MIT by the 1960s, and the hacker ethic has since spread into cyberculture and beyond. Over time, the term has been generalized to describe anybody who possesses great technical proficiency in any particular skill, usually combined with an offbeat sense of humor. The manifestation of hacker culture in the form of spectacular pranks is the most visible aspect of this culture to the world at large, but many hacker subcultures exist at MIT, and elsewhere. This article focuses mostly on prankish aspects; for a fuller description of hacker culture, see \"Hacker (term)\".\n\nRoof and tunnel hacking, a form of urban exploration, is also related to but not identical to \"hacking\" as described in this article. Some hacks do involve overcoming barriers to physical access (e.g. placing a half-scale Apollo Lunar Module atop the Great Dome), but many other stunts do not require such specialized skills.\n\nViewed from an anthropological perspective, hacking is a cultural tradition affirming group solidarity, but some hacks can also be viewed as individualistic creative or artistic expression. For example the \"Massachusetts Toolpike\" hack was a clear instance of installation art or environmental art. Hacks which involve staged public actions (e.g. a zombie march or the Time Traveler Convention of 2005) are clearly a form of performance art, often combined with body art and cosplay. Still other hacks have a strong conceptual art flavor, often satirizing other purported works of conceptual art. Sometimes the boundaries have been deliberately blurred, for example when a satirical work of \"conceptual art\" (\"No Knife: a study in mixed media earth tones, number three\") was surreptitiously added to a \"serious\" art gallery show at the List Visual Arts Center.\n\n\"Tribute\", \"memorial\", or \"commemorative\" hacks note the arrival, passing, or anniversary of some noteworthy person, tradition, institution, or idea (e.g. the 10th anniversary of Wikipedia). Another broad category of hacks contains strong elements of social commentary or street protest (e.g. \"Nth Annual Spontaneous Tuition Riot\") about events on campus or in the world at large. But the strongest element of many hacks is the sheer joy of conceptualizing something new, and then reifying it with effective engineering, both technical and social (e.g. installing a full-sized mockup solar-powered subway car on the parapet wall around the base of the Great Dome, and then \"driving it back and forth under remote wireless control\" from Killian Court, some five stories below, \"after sundown\").\nLike most art exhibitions, the great majority of hacks are temporary installations; most are removed within a day or so by MIT Physical Plant, the MIT Confined Space Rescue Team (CSRT), or occasionally by the hackers themselves. It is a traditional courtesy to leave a note or even engineering drawings behind, as an aid to safe de-installation of a hack. Sometimes, the hacks have been de-installed so quickly that members of the MIT community and the general public have had little opportunity to view them. On very rare occasions, community protests have caused the MIT administration to quietly allow a hack to be re-installed and left for a proper viewing interval. The results of certain hacks (often wall murals) have been considered \"permanent improvements\" to the campus environment, and have been left in place indefinitely, most notably the \"Smoot marks\" on the Harvard Bridge. The MIT Museum maintains an extensive collection of original hacker artifacts and documentation, and displays some larger items semi-permanently in the Stata Center.\n\nAlthough many traditional college pranks have involved maximizing embarrassment or inconvenience for a victim or target, such antics are usually disparaged by MIT hackers as \"unimaginative\" or \"boring\". Often the target of a hack is an abstract concept (e.g. bureaucracy or \"political correctness\", or entropy), and the prank may or may not be aimed at any specific individual. Even when an individual is targeted (e.g. the \"disappearing office\" of newly arrived MIT President Charles Vest), the jest is good-natured, often eliciting admiration rather than anger from the \"victim\".\n\nWriters for the third-party, independent Internet prankster site \"Zug\" once compared humorous responses at MIT and Harvard, by posting similar banners over main entrances to their respective campuses which proclaimed \"Institute of Nowlege\". Regarding Harvard, they concluded, \"The question: is the sense of humor still alive in modern-day Harvard students? The answer, it turns out, is \"no\".\" Regarding MIT, they said, \"So it's official: MIT students have a better sense of humor, hands down, than Harvard students. MIT students are more imaginative, more fun-loving, and probably smarter as well. Truly, MIT is the Institute of NOWLEGE.\" The \"Zug\" pranksters also noted and documented great differences in the reactions of campus police, maintenance workers, and passersby, upon seeing the ironically punned banners.\n\nMIT hacks can push the limits of technical skill, and sometimes fail in spite of meticulous planning. Even these engineering failures have been acknowledged to have educational value, and sometimes a follow-up attempt succeeds. One hack on the Great Dome is documented as having finally succeeded on the fourth try, after a complete re-engineering of both the installed artifact and the installation method.\n\nSmaller projects that can be completed by an individual student are sometimes accorded the honorific \"a great hack\" by other students, if they combine technical elegance with a hackish sense of humor. For example, an MIT undergrad transformed an ordinary grocery shopping cart into a high-performance electric vehicle, and had been frequently seen riding around campus in his \"LOLrioKart\". The shopping cart had a claimed top speed over , and also had a complex steering wheel linkage and a low turning radius for maneuverability in tight spaces. The student was a strong advocate of the Open Source Hardware philosophy, and incorporated detailed documentation of his projects and a tutorial on building custom wheel hub motors in his blog. The ersatz vehicle was prominently displayed at many MIT events, as well as at the Cambridge Science Festival. As a crowning mark of recognition by the outside world, the LOLrioKart driver once received a traffic ticket from the Cambridge Police, a copy of which was proudly displayed online.\n\nSome of the best large-scale hacks (e.g. the Caltech cannon heist) have involved multiple teams of hackers working on coordinated but diverse subtasks such as fund-raising, \"social engineering\", rigging, transportation logistics, gold electroplating, and precision numerical controlled machining, calling on a wide range of technical and management skills. Not surprisingly, some hacker teams have gone on to found start-up business ventures, though they may be reluctant to reveal their earlier exploits until many years have passed.\n\nOne classic hack involved a police car with its flashing warning lights operating. The unusual aspect of this hack was its position — on top of MIT's Great Dome. The car was found to be a gutted, junked, heavy Chevrolet, painted meticulously to match the MIT Campus Police patrol cars. The car's number was pi. Its license plate read \"IHTFP\", the abbreviation for MIT's unofficial slogan. A dummy dressed as a campus patrolman was seated inside with mug of coffee and a box of donuts. Some years later, the police car has now been semi-permanently re-installed in the Stata Center as an all-time classic.\n\nDue to MIT's proximity to Harvard, many hacks involve the annual Harvard-Yale football game. Because of the Cambridge rivalry between MIT and Harvard, hackers often are found at the games, and they have come up with some of the most famous hacks in the Institute's history.\n\nOne such notable hack attempt targeting the 1948 Harvard-Yale football game involved the use of primer cord. One night shortly before the game MIT students snuck into the Harvard stadium and buried primer cord just under the field. The plan was to burn the letters MIT into the middle of the field during the game. However, their work was uncovered by groundskeepers and disabled. During the game the hackers were apprehended while wearing heavy coats on a fair-weather day. The coats were lined with batteries, obviously intended to be used to detonate the primer cord. An apocryphal story is that an MIT dean came to their defense, opening his own battery-lined coat and claiming that \"all Tech men carry batteries\"; an MIT dean did show up, but he was not wearing batteries. This phrase has since become common among MIT students.\n\nThe Harvard-Yale football game was again the target of MIT hackers in 1982 when a large weather balloon painted with \"MIT\" all around was inflated, seemingly from nowhere, in the middle of the field. The next day the \"Boston Herald\" ran the headline \"MIT 1—Harvard-Yale 0: Tech Pranksters Steal the Show\". The 1982 Harvard-Yale hack earned acclaim as winner of \"Hack Madness\", a March Madness-themed contest sponsored by the MIT Alumni Association in 2014 to determine \"the greatest MIT hack of all time\".\n\nIn 1990 an MIT banner was successfully launched from an end zone using a model rocket engine shortly before Yale attempted a field goal kick. In 1996, the Harvard logos on the scoreboard were hacked from \"VE-RI-TAS\" to read \"HU-GE-EGO\" instead.\n\nAnother traditional hacking target has been the bronze statue of John Harvard, the namesake of Harvard University. The statue itself was sculpted by Daniel Chester French, a respected artist who studied at MIT, who is best known for his statue of \"Abraham Lincoln\" at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington DC. Because of its visible location in Harvard Yard and its symbolic significance, the John Harvard statue has been fitted with an unending sequence of \"accessories\". MIT hackers are hardly alone; Dartmouth College pranksters like to paint the statue green, Yale pranksters prefer blue, and others have dressed the statue in women's underwear. MIT hackers like to go a few steps further, fitting the statue with a plaster leg cast after a crushing football defeat, and disguising the statue as the Unabomber after that infamous Harvard alumnus was arrested. John Harvard has worn a Brass Rat from time to time, and has donned a Halo combat helmet and brandished a Halo assault rifle to mark the release of the \"Halo 3\" first-person shooter video game. In accordance with hacker ethics, great care is taken to ensure that the hacks can be removed without causing permanent damage to Harvard's treasured symbol.\n\nThe cleverness of many MIT hacks has even resulted in urban legends about supposed hacks that may not have occurred. One rumored hack involved a certain student's adherence to classical conditioning behavior response, as studied by Harvard Professor B. F. Skinner. Throughout the off-season, this supposed student visited the Harvard football stadium during his lunch break. He dressed in a black and white striped shirt and trousers, filled his pockets with bird-seed, then went on the field, blew a whistle, and spread his birdseed on the field. The result of all of this effort, the story goes, is that on opening day as the Harvard football team took the field to face their opponent, the referee blew his whistle to signal the start of the game, and the field was suddenly inundated by a flock of birds looking for their lunch. Despite sounding like a classic MIT hack, this particular prank has never been verified. The author of a 1990 book about pranks pulled by MIT students stated that he had not come across clear documentation of this tale during his years of research.\n\nOn the other hand, at least one hack involved a staged event that never occurred, when hackers convinced major news media that they had created an indoor snowstorm in Baker House dormitory.\n\nWhen MIT replaced older mercury-vapor lamps with high-efficiency LED lamps to illuminate the Great Dome, hackers started changing the color of the lights to reflect various occasions — Earth Day, the Fourth of July, etc. Although reprogramming the lights is technically straightforward, these Great Dome lighting hacks are very visible from Boston's Back Bay district, across the Charles River.\n\nIn September 2011, hackers installed 153 (= 9 x 17) custom-made wirelessly-controlled color-changing high-power LED lights into every window above the first floor of the 295-foot (90 m) tall MIT Green Building. They displayed a waving American flag throughout the evening of September 11, 2011 in remembrance of the September 11 attacks of 2001. For a short time in the early morning of September 12, the lights displayed a Tetris game, thus realizing a long-standing hack proposal, the \"Holy Grail\" of hacks. The display hardware had occasional glitches, and was removed as of September 13. The hardware and software designs were further developed and refined for better reliability. On April 20, 2012, MIT hackers successfully turned the Green Building into a huge playable Tetris game, operated from a wireless control podium at a comfortable viewing distance in front of the building. Visitors to Campus Preview Weekend (a gathering for admitted prospective freshman students) were invited to play the game on the colossal display grid (80 ft. wide x 250 ft. high), which was claimed to be the second-largest full-color video display in the US.\n\nInstead of a one-shot temporary installation, the hackers have designed and built a permanent facility that can be re-used repeatedly by the MIT community. An understanding has been reached with the EAPS Department, which is headquartered in the Green Building, to allow the light display hardware to remain installed in each window. To avoid annoying the occupants and to allow late-working staff to \"opt out\", each light display is equipped with a manual override button, which will disable the pixel lighting for that window for several hours after it is pressed. In addition, the hackers have released Open Source software tools used to develop new display patterns, so that others can design and deploy new stationary or animated images, in cooperation with the hacker engineers.\n\nIHTFP is an abbreviation which is part of the folklore at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It originally stood for \"I Hate This Fucking Place\" but, due to use of profanity, is often euphemized with other backronyms. Some of the more popular meanings include \"I Have The Fucking Power\" (Hacking), \"I Help Tutor Freshman Physics\", \"It's Hard To Fondle Penguins\", \"I'm Hankering To Find Paradise\", and \"Interesting Hacks To Fascinate People\", as well as \"I Have Truly Found Paradise\", \"Institute for Hacks, TomFoolery, and Pranks\" and \"Institute Has The Finest Professors.\" MIT leadership has even adapted the acronym, using it to encourage vaccination during the 2009–2010 flu season with a banner in the MIT medical building that read \"I Hate This Flu Pandemic\". The precise time of origin is unknown, though the term IHTFP was already widely used at MIT by 1960.\n\nThe letters \"IHTFP\" have been featured prominently on some hacks, but are more usually subtly embedded within other hacks as an inside joke. A very common motif in the MIT Brass Rat (class ring) prior to 2013 was the inclusion of the letters \"IHTFP\" hidden somewhere within the frame of the bezel.\n\nThe 2016 celebrations of MIT's 'crossing of the Charles' in 1916, featured a translations as 'I Honor Theory (and) Forgo Practice'. This was part of a play / sketch addressing the friction between theoretical and applied researchers.\n\nMIT and Caltech have been prank rivals since Spring 2005, when a group of Caltech students traveled to Cambridge to pull a string of pranks during \"Campus Preview Weekend\" (CPW) for prospective new MIT students. The stunts included covering up the word \"Massachusetts\" in the \"Massachusetts Institute of Technology\" engraving on the main building façade with a banner, so that it read \"That Other Institute of Technology\". A group of MIT hackers quickly responded by altering the banner so that the inscription read \"The Only Institute of Technology\".\n\nMIT students retaliated for CPW in April 2006, when students posing as the \"Howe & Ser Moving Co.\" abducted the 130-year-old, 1.7 ton Fleming House Cannon and moved it to their campus in Cambridge, Massachusetts, thus reprising a similar prank performed by Harvey Mudd College in 1986. To add a technical flourish, a 24K gold-plated precisely upscaled machined replica of the famed Brass Rat (MIT's graduation ring) was tightly fitted over the barrel of the cannon, which was carefully aimed in the direction of Caltech. Twenty-three members of Caltech Fleming House traveled to MIT to reclaim their cannon on April 10, 2006. They were greeted by a larger group of MIT students, who offered them a BBQ farewell party. In exchange, the Caltech students offered a small toy cannon, saying that this was \"more your size\".\n\nDuring MIT's CPW in 2007, Caltech distributed a complete fake edition of \"The Tech\" (MIT's student newspaper) with the headline article reading \"MIT Invents the Interweb\". Another article announced the discovery, \"Infinite Corridor Not Actually Infinite\", referring to MIT's iconic main thoroughfare. The edition included a mock weather forecast, referring often to how sunny Pasadena (where Caltech is located) is compared to Boston, as well as other satirical articles.\n\nIn 2008, Caltech students provided a \"Puzzle Zero\" in the MIT Mystery Hunt which when solved, told solvers to \"CALL 1-626-848-3780 ASAP\". When MIT students dialed the number, they heard, \"Thank you for calling the Caltech Admissions Office. If you are another MIT student wishing to transfer to Caltech, please download our transfer application form from www.caltech.edu. If you are an MIT student not wishing to transfer to Caltech, we wish you the best of luck, and hope you find happiness someday...\"\n\nAround Thanksgiving weekend in 2009, yet another fake edition of \"The Tech\" was released, alleging that MIT had been sold to Caltech and would become \"Caltech East: School of Humanities\". Students would be required to take a core of literature, history, philosophy, and economics, but science subjects would be eliminated.\n\nIn the past few years, MIT hackers have tended to ignore Caltech \"nuisance\" pranks, instead preferring to perform more imaginatively engineered hacks on their own home campus. In particular, the majority of documented hacks occurring during CPW have been perpetrated by MIT students themselves.\nMIT hackers have only rarely interfered with Caltech traditions, rituals, or celebrations. But some MIT hackers do occasionally engage in low-level \"sniping\" back and forth with Caltech pranksters. For example, hackers made a website http://www.mitrejects.com redirect to Caltech's homepage. Caltech then did the same, with https://web.archive.org/web/20110614193503/http://www.caltechrejects.com/ redirecting to the MIT homepage.\n\nA possible change in attitude started when a TARDIS, which hackers had placed on the MIT Little Dome (August 25, 2010) and the MIT Great Dome (August 30, 2010), was transported to the roof of Baxter Hall at Caltech (January 4, 2011) by MIT and Caltech pranksters, where it remained for several weeks. The traveling time-machine subsequently reappeared atop Birge Hall at the University of California, Berkeley (January 29, 2011), and then rematerialized on the Durand Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering Building at Stanford University (March 18, 2011). The TARDIS came complete with a helpful note explaining how to disassemble it, and suggesting passing it on to other unexplored destinations.\n\nThe MIT IHTFP Hack Gallery website has an extensive but far from complete catalog of past hacks related to MIT, including numerous documentary photos. More-complete coverage, especially of older hacks, appears in the books listed under Further Reading below, but these printed volumes appear only intermittently. The listing here only summarizes a few salient examples from MIT's long tradition of hacking.\n\nIn the early morning of April 26, 2017, recent graduate Nicholas William Paggi died while hacking the Great Dome. According to the MIT newspaper, The Tech, the brilliant computer scientist slipped and fell to his death.\n\nOn the evening of January 10, 2013, Pac-Man and Blinky appeared on the scaffolding covering the Great Dome during reconstruction. According to the MIT alumni blog \"Slice of MIT\", the Pac-Man vs. Blinky battle was intended to serve as a metaphor for the semester. \"Pac-Man represents the unquenchable search for knowledge, while Blinky represents the unforeseen distractions that may occur.\"\n\nAlthough it might not strictly be categorized as a hack, the MIT Gangnam Style parody video released October 27, 2012, was a major student-run project that involved coordinating hundreds of people and over 25 different student organizations. The music video closely follows the original version, and includes cameo appearances by MIT professors Donald Sadoway, recognized by \"Time Magazine\" in 2012 as one of the \"Top 100 Most Influential People in the World\", Eric Lander, who was co-chairman of President Barack Obama's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, and Noam Chomsky, a pioneer of modern linguistics. The parody quickly reached #1 most popular video in Entertainment and #6 overall on YouTube, was called the \"Best Gangnam Style Parody Yet\" by \"The Huffington Post\", and got an enthusiastic reaction from Psy, the star and producer of the original video.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41595496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41595496", "title": "Hargeysa International Book Fair", "text": "Hargeysa International Book Fair\n\nThe Hargeysa International Book Fair (HIBF) () is an annual cultural event in the northwestern Somaliland region of Somalia. It is one of the largest public book fairs in the Horn of Africa. Every summer, HIBF brings writers, poets, artists and thinkers from Somaliland and from all over the world gather to share and discuss their art and literary productions with a wider audience. The main goal of the festival is to promote a culture of reading and writing in the region by producing and publishing high quality Somali literature and translating international classical literature (including fiction, poetry and drama) into Somali. Organized by the Redsea Online Culture Foundation, the event aims to enable young people to access a range of cultural heritages, with the intention of stimulating the revival of all forms of art and human expression, including painting, poetry reciting, story-telling, drama composition and writing.\n\nThe Hargeysa International Book Fair was inaugurated in 2008 by Jama Musse Jama, who serves as Director. It grew from 200 to 10,000 participants over the following six years.\n\nHIBF targets not only a young audience, but wider sectors of society. It aims to help foster cultural understanding, tolerance, democracy, and an appreciation of the diversity of Somali culture and literature. In the past few years, the Redsea Online Culture Foundation's festivals have served to raise the profile of reading and writing in the Somaliland region, and also unite youth from different provinces in the area. The main goal of the book fair is to promote critically thinking cultural and creative writing, to facilitate the habit of reading, to display books, from both local and writers abroad, to encourage members in the public to browse, read, engage with authors, serve as an inspiration to young people, and the wider society.\n\n\"Somaliland Moving Library\": The Moving Library Tour is the Book Fair's flagship outreach event. An exciting initiative, it takes place a week before the opening of the festival in Hargeisa and is held across all regions of Somaliland. It aims to bring the ethos and principles of the Book Fair – of citizenship and creative freedoms – closer to aspiring writers and readers outside of the city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "695435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=695435", "title": "Higher Learning", "text": "Higher Learning\n\nHigher Learning is a 1995 American drama film written and directed by John Singleton and starring an ensemble cast. The film follows the changing lives of three incoming freshmen at the fictional Columbus University: Malik Williams (Omar Epps), a black track star who struggles with academics; Kristen Connor (Kristy Swanson), a shy and naive girl; and Remy (Michael Rapaport), a lonely and confused man seemingly out of place in his new environment.\n\nThe film also featured Tyra Banks' first performance in a theatrical film. Laurence Fishburne won an NAACP Image Award for \"Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture\"; Ice Cube was also nominated for the award. This was the last film appearance of Dedrick D. Gobert, who was shot dead in 1994 prior to the film's release.\n\nThe exterior shots and outdoor scenes were shot on the campus of University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) while the interiors were shot at Sony Pictures Studios.\n\nAt fictitious Columbus University, students Malik Williams, a black track athlete, Kristen Connor, a white woman, and Remy, a white young man, are starting their freshman year.\n\nKristen's roommate is Monet, a black student. Malik's roommate is Wayne, a white student. Both sets of roommates generally get along. Monet and Malik attend a dorm party hosted by Fudge, an Afrocentric and militant senior. Remy, Fudge's roommate, is upset at the loud rap music being played so late. He flags down an all-white campus security patrol to break up the party. Fudge is upset that lead Officer Bradley comes down hard on the black students, but allows the room down the hall to continue their loud \"hillbilly\" music. Kristen, while walking home, meets Taryn, a junior as well as an openly lesbian student. Taryn warns her about walking alone late at night and invites her to a student group.\n\nMalik and Kristen's introductory political science class is taught by Professor Maurice Phipps, a conservative black man from the West Indies. Professor Phipps challenges the class to determine who they are for themselves and not let others categorize them.\n\nFudge and his friend Dreads play loud music, disrupting Remy's studying. When Remy complains, Fudge mocks and threatens him, causing Remy to move in with a new roommate, Jewish student David. Later, Remy loses at a video game to Malik, who further mocks him.\n\nFrat boy Billy rapes a drunken Kristen. Monet finds Kristen crying on her bed, then fields a racially charged call from Billy. Angered, Monet turns to Fudge, who recruits his friends to confront him at a frat party. Kristen points out Billy to the black students, who pull him outside and force him to apologize to Monet (not knowing that he raped Kristen).\n\nKristen joins Taryn's student group on harmony between different races and cliques. With time, she eventually opens up to Taryn about her rape, with Taryn encouraging her to report it and attempting to console her. As days pass, Kristen slowly realizes her growing attraction to Taryn.\n\nRemy has become more isolated. He is invited for a drink by Scott Moss, a white supremacist and neo-Nazi skinhead, along with Scott's skinhead friends: Erik, James, and the weight-lifting, hulking Knocko.\n\nMalik confronts Phipps about a paper, arguing for a better grade. When Phipps shows him the various spelling and grammar errors, Malik calls him a sellout for the \"white establishment\". Phipps angrily responds that the world owes Malik nothing and he must work for his own good to make a difference in the world. When Malik's teammates confront him for a poor performance at a track meet, he responds with Fudge's militant Afrocentric ideology. He walks away and flirts with fellow runner Deja. With time they become a couple, and Deja helps Malik with his essay and spelling errors.\n\nRemy spends more time with Scott and his gang. Scott preaches his racist beliefs, and the troubled Remy is slowly being convinced that \"the white man is endangered\", agreeing to shave his head and join Scott's group.\n\nAfter attending a rape awareness rally with Taryn, Kristen asks to spend the night. Taryn rebuffs her, wanting Kristen to be sure. Kristen eventually starts separate relationships with Wayne and Taryn, who are unaware that Kristen is sleeping with both of them.\n\nRemy confronts Malik with racial slurs. Remy later pulls a handgun on Malik and David, hurling racial slurs at them both as he packs his belongings and drops out of the university. Again, Officer Bradley and the all-white campus security assume Malik is at fault, letting Remy escape. Malik decides to move in with Fudge and his like-minded black friends, while Remy moves in with Scott and the neo-Nazi skinheads. After Malik and his black friends win a fistfight against Remy and his skinhead friends, Scott first tells Remy he should not drop out of school because they do not just need soldiers, but also educated people like lawyers to fight for their cause. However Remy, feeling punked by Malik, just wants to turn to violence. So after Remy insists that he is \"for real\", Scott sighs and shows Remy the sniper rifle. He challenges Remy to kill for the white race.\n\nKristen organizes a peace festival with Monet to calm down the students. Malik and Deja attend, and are caught in the frenzy when Remy opens fire from the rooftop of a nearby building. Two students are killed, including Deja, who dies in Malik's arms. Malik runs into the building and attacks Remy, trying to choke him to death when Officer Bradley and his campus guards intervene and beat Malik while letting Remy go. The campus guards finally approach Remy, who looks and apologizes to Malik for everything that he did and commits suicide.\n\nA few days later, Malik and Phipps discuss his future at the university, with Phipps saying he trusts Malik's judgment. Later, Malik and Kristen are seen talking, for the first time, at an impromptu memorial site. Kristen feels guilty about the deaths because she started the Peace Fest, but Malik assuages her guilt.\n\nAs Phipps leaves his office, the final shot shows the United States flag fluttering in the wind as the caption \"unlearn\" appears over it, fading to the closing credits.\n\n\nThe band Eve's Plum performs, as themselves, at the Peace Fest.\n\nAccording to Box Office Mojo, \"Higher Learning\" grossed $38,290,723 in the United States, with $20,200,000 in rentals. It ranked #44 for yearly domestic gross and #17 amongst R-rated films in 1995.\nUnder the category of Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture for the 1996 Image Award, Ice Cube was nominated for his role in Higher Learning. The award was won by fellow cast member Laurence Fishburne.\n\nThe film received mixed reviews. Roger Ebert commended John Singleton's direction of the film: \"He sees with a clear eye and a strong will, and is not persuaded by fashionable ideologies. His movies are thought-provoking because he uses familiar kinds of characters and then asks hard questions about them.\" He awarded the film 3 out of 4 stars. \"TimeOut Magazine\" wrote: \"a stylish, intelligent film-maker, Singleton interweaves the threads of his demographic tapestry with assurance, passion and a welcome awareness of the complexities of the college community's contradictory impulses towards integration and separatism.\"\n\n\"Reel Film Reviews\" wrote that the film is \"consistently entertaining and well-acted all around. While it's not a perfect movie – Cube's character disappears for a 30-minute stretch and Singleton's approach often veers into heavy-handedness – it is nevertheless an intriguing look at the differences between races and how such differences can clash\" and awarded it 3.5 stars out of 4.\n\n\"Higher Learning\" currently holds a 49% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 35 reviews, with an average rating of 5.3/10.\n\nThe soundtrack, containing hip hop, R&B, rock and jazz music was released on January 3, 1995 by Epic Records. It peaked at #39 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and #9 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums.\nIn addition to \"Higher\", performed by Ice Cube, the soundtrack includes original music by OutKast, Liz Phair, Tori Amos and Rage Against the Machine.\n\n"}
{"id": "35954219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35954219", "title": "History of scrolls", "text": "History of scrolls\n\nA scroll (from the Old French \"escroe\" or \"escroue\"), is a roll of papyrus, parchment, or paper containing writing. The history of scrolls dates back to ancient Egypt. In most ancient literate cultures scrolls were the earliest format for longer documents written in ink or paint on a flexible background, preceding bound books; rigid media such as clay tablets were also used but had many disadvantages in comparison. For most purposes scrolls have long been superseded by the codex book format, but they are still produced for some ceremonial or religious purposes, notably for the Jewish Torah scroll for use in synagogues.\n\nScrolls were the first form of editable record keeping texts, used in Eastern Mediterranean ancient Egyptian civilizations.\n\nParchment scrolls were used by several early civilizations before the codex or bound book with pages and was invented by the Romans in the 1st century AD. Nevertheless, scrolls were more highly regarded than codices until well into Roman times where they were usually written in single latitudinal column.\n\nThe Hebrew tradition assumes that the Torah was copied by Moses onto a scroll (in about 1200 BCE) made from skin of a kosher animal, rather than papyrus as in Dynastic Egypt. Since there is no historical evidence for Moses and the events related in the Torah, there is no reliable way to know the time when Hebrews started using scrolls for their religious books.\n\nFollowing Jewish tradition, since that time scrolls, which are very durable with examples known to be hundreds of years old such as the 800-year-old Sephardic Sefer Torah from Spain, are copied from one to another.\n\nThe meticulous process of hand-copying a scroll takes about 2,000 person-hours (about one year at 40 hours per week). \n\nThe Torah scroll contains 304,805 letters (or approximately 79,000 words). \nOther books of the Tanakh are also written in scroll form, as well as the small mezuzah scrolls found in the door frames of most orthodox, conservative and reform Jewish households. Some Jewish families own their own Megillah scroll for use during Purim.\n\nThere is a difference between the כְּתִיב (\"Ketiv\"), what is and must be written (in consonantal text, with vowels omitted), and the קְרֵי (\"Qere\"), what is read.\n\nThe Jewish communities in these countries used the same techniques to manufacture scrolls, but using deer skins. The scrolls from these areas were known for their quality and durability, and were later imported into European and Indian communities.\n\nNon-Jewish vellum manufacturing also took place after the 3rd century BC.\n\nScrolls were used by the ancient Greeks. In Roman usage the scrolls were written latitudinally, usually placed on podiums with roll holders from which the rolls were unwound.\n\nThe Romans eventually found the scroll too cumbersome for lengthy works and developed the codex, which is the formal name for the modern style of book, with individual pages bound together.\n\nScrolls continued to be used at times during the Early Church era until the Early Middle Ages, but Christianity was an early adopter of the codex. It is often thought that this reflects the background in trade of many early Christians, who were used to codex notebooks, and less attached to the form that was traditional among the Roman elite and religious Jews.\n\nScrolls virtually ceased to be used for books and documents in Europe during the Middle Ages, and were reintroduced for rare use in official treaties and other international documents of great significance during and after the Baroque Era of the 0th century. These were usually written on high quality vellum, and stored in elaborate silver and gold cases inscribed with names of participants. Earlier examples were written in Latin. Scrolls continued in use for administrative and accounting purposes all over Europe. In English they were often referred to as \"rolls\", hence the Great Rolls of the English Exchequer, and titles such as Master of the Rolls (a senior judge), still used in the 21st century. The official copy of English, now British, legislation was still printed on vellum in a roll format and stored in the Palace of Westminster until 2017, when the use of Vellum was replaced with archival paper. The Exultet Scroll from Southern Italy and Byzantine Joshua Scroll were prestige objects that used the old form in a revivalist spirit.\n\nScrolls continued in use longer in the Islamic world, often elaborately decorated in calligraphic writing that included use of gold embossing and pigments when used for the writing of the Qur'an.\n\nScrolls continued in use longer in East Asian cultures like China, Korea and Japan.\n\nThe Chinese invented and perfected 'Indian Ink' for use in writing, including scrolls. Originally designed for blacking the surfaces of raised stone-carved hieroglyphics, the ink was a mixture of soot from pine smoke and lamp oil mixed with the gelatin of donkey skin and musk. The ink invented by the Chinese philosopher, Tien-Lcheu (2697 B.C.), became common by the year 1200 B.C.\n\nLater other formats came into use in China, firstly the \"sutra\" or \"scripture\" binding, a scroll folded concertina-style, which avoids the need to unroll to find a passage in the middle. By about 1,000 CE, sheet-based formats were introduced, although scrolls continued to have a place. Traditional painting and calligraphy in East Asia is often still performed on relatively short latitudinal paper scrolls displayed vertically as a hanging scroll on a wall or horizontally and flat as a handscroll.\n\nThe codex was a new format for reading the written word, consisting of individual pages loosely attached to each other at one side and bound with boards or cloth. It came to replace the scroll thanks to several problems that limited the scroll's function and readability. For one, scrolls were very long, sometimes as long as ten meters. This made them hard to hold open and read, a difficulty not helped by the fact that most scrolls in that era were read horizontally, instead of vertically as scrolling virtual documents are read now. The text on a scroll was continuous, without page breaks, which made indexing and bookmarking impossible. Conversely, the codex was easier to hold open, separate pages made it possible to index sections and mark a page, and the protective covers kept the fragile pages intact better than scrolls generally stayed. This last made it particularly attractive for important religious texts.\n\nAnother aspect that made the codex more attractive than the scroll was ease of copying. It was possible to hold open a codex with one hand and write notes- or copy the text- with the other. For early Christendom this was an invaluable asset, as the ability to mass reproduce their gospels was in high demand. Early Medieval Christians were some of the first to adopt the codex over the scroll.\n\nThe codex began to replace the scroll almost as soon as it was invented. For example, in Egypt by the fifth century, the codex outnumbered the scroll or roll by ten to one based on surviving examples, and by the sixth century the scroll had almost vanished from use as a vehicle for literature. However, in other places the scroll lingered. As mentioned above, English monarchs used so called “statute rolls” to record important legislation until well into the Middle Ages. Scrolls were also commonly used in theater productions, a practice from which the term “actor’s roll” was coined.\n\nTorah Scrolls are still used today in Jewish religious observance with almost insignificant changes despite the thousands of years in practice.\n\nSome cultures use scrolls as ceremonial texts or for decoration—such as a hanging scroll—without any obvious division of the text into columns. In some scroll-using cultures painted illustrations were used as header decorations above the text columns, either in a continuous band or broken into scenes above either a single or double column of text.\n\nOne of the few modern texts the original of which was written on what is effectively a scroll is the manuscript of Jack Kerouac's \"On the Road\", typed onto what he called \"the scroll\", made of taped-together sheets of paper.\n\nThe verb \"to scroll\" is much used in the age of screen displays—computer displays, rolling credits in films and so on—with the screen filled with text moving (scrolling) up or down or sideways, appearing at one edge of the display and disappearing at the other as if being unrolled from one side of a scroll and rolled up at the other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1377460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1377460", "title": "Joy to the World (Three Dog Night song)", "text": "Joy to the World (Three Dog Night song)\n\n\"Joy to the World\" is a song written by Hoyt Axton and made famous by the band Three Dog Night. The song is also popularly known by its opening lyric, \"Jeremiah was a bullfrog.\" Three Dog Night originally released the song on their fourth studio album, \"Naturally\", in November 1970, and subsequently released an edited version of the song as a single in February 1971.\n\nThe song, which has been described by members of Three Dog Night as a \"kid's song\" and a \"silly song,\" topped the singles charts in North America, was certified gold by the RIAA, and has since been covered by multiple artists.\n\nThe song is featured prominently in the film \"The Big Chill\". It is sung by a child character at the beginning and the Three Dog Night recording is played over the end credits.\n\nIt is also played at the end of every Denver Broncos home victory. Notable playings of this song after Broncos victories included then-Chicago Bears head coach Abe Gibron's singing along with the song in 1973; and at the end of Super Bowl XXXII, played at Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego. It was also played at the end of Super Bowl XXXIII at Pro Player (now Hard Rock) Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida and Super Bowl 50 in Santa Clara, California.\n\nSome of the words are nonsensical. Axton wanted to persuade his record producers to record a new melody he had written and the producers asked him to sing any words to the tune. A member of Three Dog Night said that the original lyrics to the song were \"Jeremiah was a prophet\" but no one liked it.\n\nWhen Hoyt Axton performed the song to the group, two of the three main vocalists – Danny Hutton and Cory Wells – rejected the song, but Chuck Negron felt that the band needed a \"silly song\" to help bring the band back together as a working unit. Negron also felt that the song \"wasn't even close to our best record, but it might have been one of our most honest.\"\n\nThe song was recorded by Three Dog Night at American Recording Company, produced by Richard Podolor, and engineered by Bill Cooper. Unlike most Three Dog Night songs recorded at that point, instead of having just the three main vocalists singing harmony, the song was recorded with all seven members of the band singing. Drummer Floyd Sneed sings the deep lyric \"I wanna tell you\" towards the end of the song.\n\nWhen the song hit #1 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in 1971, Axton and his mother, Mae Axton, became the first mother and son to each have written a number one pop single in the rock era. Mae Axton co-wrote \"Heartbreak Hotel\", which was the first number one hit for Elvis Presley.\n\nIn a 1994 case, David P. Jackson filed suit claiming co-authorship of the song and alleging that Axton fraudulently claimed sole authorship. In the suit, Jackson claimed that Axton regularly credited him with co-authorship.\n\nThe single had been out less than two months, when on April 9, 1971, \"Joy to the World\" was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America, for shipments of over 1,000,000 units across the United States. The record was also given a Gold Leaf award by \"RPM\" magazine for sales of over a million units. The record won the award for the Best Selling Hit Single Record by the National Association of Recording Merchandisers in March 1972.\nIt was also ranked by \"Billboard\" magazine as the #1 pop single of 1971. The song was also nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Pop Vocal Performance by a Duo Or Group during the 14th Grammy Awards.\nThe single went on to sell 5 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling singles of all time.\n\n"}
{"id": "30938682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30938682", "title": "La maschera e il volto", "text": "La maschera e il volto\n\nLa maschera e il volto is a comedy of grotesque genre by Luigi Chiarelli. Written in 1913 and first presented in 1916, it is historically significant for starting the contemporary grotesque theatre. It had a great success first in Italy and then internationally, and continues to be represented. Several movies have been adapted from the play.\n\n"}
{"id": "5933707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5933707", "title": "Limner", "text": "Limner\n\nA limner is an illuminator of manuscripts, or more generally, a painter of ornamental decoration. One of the earliest mentions of a limner's work is found in the book \"Methods and Materials of Painting\" by Charles Lock Eastlake (1793–1865).\n\nIn London in the mid-19th century the limner David Laurent de Lara established himself as a modern illuminator of manuscripts and documents. His work broke new ground and helped establish the idea of illumination as a contemporary artform in its own right, rather than as a historical artform.\n\nThe office of Her Majesty's Painter and Limner is a position within the Royal Household unique to Scotland. It is currently held by Dame Elizabeth Blackadder. The position of portrait painter to the royal household is honorary and for life.\n\nIn early 19th-century America, a limner artist was one who had little if any formal training and would travel from place to place to solicit commissions.\n\nAmong colonial America's rising mercantile class, a limner was an unattributed portrait commissioned as a status symbol. The local landowners and merchants who commissioned these portraits posed in their finest clothes, in well-appointed interiors, or in landscapes that identified their position, property, good taste, and sophistication.\n\nA late named artist who began in this genre is the Maine landscape artist Charles Codman, who in Eastern Argus (April 1, 1831) is described as an \"ornamental and sign painter\" or \"limner\" who practiced \"Military, Standard, Fancy, Ornamental, Masonic and Sign Painting\".\n\nThe Victoria Limners Society was a group of artists working in Victoria, British Columbia from 1971 through 2008. They worked within a variety of artistic styles and mediums, such as painting, sculpting, pottery, and other forms of visual art. The artists include Maxwell Bates, Pat Martin Bates, Richard Ciccimarra, Robert De Castro, Colin Graham, Helga Grove, Jan Grove, Elza Mayhew, Myfanwy Pavelic, Carole Sabiston, Herbert Siebner, Robin Skelton, and Karl Spreitz.\n\n"}
{"id": "1521166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1521166", "title": "List of Chinese musical instruments", "text": "List of Chinese musical instruments\n\nChinese musical instruments were traditionally grouped into 8 categories known as \"bayin\" (八音). The eight categories are: silk, bamboo, wood, stone, metal, clay, gourd and skin. There are other instruments which may not fit these groups. This is one of the first musical groups ever devised.\n\nSilk instruments are mostly stringed instruments (including those that are plucked, bowed, and struck). Since ancient times the Chinese have used twisted silk for strings, though today metal or nylon are more frequently used. Instruments in the silk category include:\n\n\n\n\nBamboo mainly refers to woodwind instruments, which includes;\n\n\n\n\n\nMost wood instruments are of the ancient variety:\n\n\n\nThe \"stone\" category comprises various forms of stone chimes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nChinese instruments are either played solo, collectively in large orchestras (as in the former imperial court) or in smaller ensembles (in teahouses or public gatherings). Normally, there is no conductor in traditional Chinese music, nor any use of musical scores or tablature in performance. Music was generally learned aurally and memorized by the musician(s) beforehand, then played without aid. As of the 20th century, musical scores have become more common, as has the use of conductors in larger orchestral-type ensembles.\n\nThese watercolour illustrations, made in China in the 1800s, show several types of musical instruments being played:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "348826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348826", "title": "List of statues", "text": "List of statues\n\nThis is a list of the most famous statues worldwide, past and present that already have articles about them in Wikipedia or are referred to or pictured in other articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLost statues in Hong Kong include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEngland\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54542037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54542037", "title": "Lux Aeterna Theatre", "text": "Lux Aeterna Theatre\n\nLux Aeterna Theater is a blend of art and entertainment with a unique self-created method. It is a theater of laser and sound, which presents new synthetic art forms for almost 40 years. Although the equipment Lux Aeterna Theater uses is meant for holographic ads, laser support of pop concerts and a variety of other shows, according to the founders of this method, their technique provides the ability to visualize the tone, harmony, tonality and nature of music, allowing to illustrate, emphasize and deepen the thematic development, and thus the whole dramaturgy of the performance. \n\nLux Aeterna Theater has no stationary location and operates internationally; it can be easily assembled on various sites. The premises must include a projection surface (planetarium, dome hemisphere, panoramic projection screen, etc.), seats, and an optical pad behind the seats, projectors, and remote control. The optical pad is a metal plate with drilled holes in the grid and with threaded openings. The drives are positioning the optical elements into the beam or slow-acting control beam with a set of lines. Each line of the laser creates a separate image. The method, resulting in interference patterns on flat surfaces, is based on the use of accidental phase modulation, which occurs when a laser beam passing through optically heterogeneous mediums is refracted at different points and angles along its way, resulting in interference patterns projected on a screen that change in contour and texture with each change in medium. The medium is made of solid transparent matter (e.g. moving plates of non-uniform structure -usually round discs mounted in a revolving cassette. And as a result, a wide selection of visual character, image, shapes, effect appears on a screen. Or/and an additional lens is used to concentrate the light field. Or/and transfocators are mounted at the beam's point of exit. These form-building methods can be used in the same cassettes (to increase image possibilities) with diffraction gratings, curvilinear reflectors or a large moving lens (for the deformation of light imago). Lighting plot involves complex abstract light ductile movements. The projection tool allows receiving on-screen a very complex dynamics of light colorful shapes, to create a light accompaniment by colorful, graphic, structural visualization of thematic development, to unite music, musical sounds, and musical noises with light content. It also allows the spatial separation and motion of different audio content, voices, melody and musical instruments.\n\nTheater was founded in 1982 by Daniel Fridman, a professional theater lighting director and sound engineer, in Uzhhorod, Transcarpathia, former USSR and now territory of Ukraine. Under the roof of the local House of Culture, Lux Aeterna became an independent half state funded legal entity with Daniel Fridman as its first artistic director. The theater team consisted of Victor Schurov, chief designer and engineer, Vasiliy Makara, engineer, Ferenc Pejchy, lighting designer, Pavel Gladovskiy, engineer, Ihor Skalskiy, laser designer and engineer. The theater hall was divided into two parts. In one part there was a spectator room for 70 seats. In another - the so-called \"light mine\". The light mine is known to have a special space, the walls, the ceiling and the floor of which are painted to matte black color, so that there is not the slightest reflection of light as well as a set of light projection equipment. Various light, light-projecting devices, mirror surfaces of small and large formats, reflective films, a large set of glass and film color filters, transparent cuvettes with water, helium-neon and helium-cadmium lasers, an optical pad saturated with various optical elements and lenses of large sizes. With the help of these technical means, the theater's artists were able to create complex dynamic light images, shapes, characters on a special homemade projection screen made of film-tracing paper. \n\nAccording to Daniel Fridman, the founder of the theater, the works of the Russian composer Alexander Scriabin, the art of Kazimir Malevich, the poetry of the early twentieth century poets were his sources of inspiration. \n\nIn the summer of 1985 Lux Aeterna Theater projected the rays of the most powerful at that time stage lasers (2,5 W krypton and 6,5 W argon) on the night clouds over the Moscow Dynamo stadium at the 12th World Festival of Youth and Students. This equipment had a couple of hundred kilograms of weight, a water cooling system with a bunch of inconveniences in tens of meters of hoses for supply and discharge of water. From 1987 The Light and Sound Theater operated in the Transcarpathian Regional Music and Drama Theater. \n\nIn 2003 the Lux Aeterna came to Kiev with a new concept to create a stationary light and sound theater under the cupola of the Kiev Planetarium. In Kiev Aleksandr Kasian, student physicist, and musician Yevhen Khalaf, joined their theater group. During 2003 to 2007 they premiered three acclaimed performances - Gravitation: Zero, Exhilaration of the Milky Ways and Night of the Longest Kiss. More than 600 séances were held during that period and the theater became one of the most visited sights in the city. Furthermore, Lux Aeterna introduced scent design to their performances, adding aromas and experimenting with affecting one more of the human senses - the sense of smell. In the beginning of June 2007 collaboration between Lux Aeterna and Theater of Voice (Duo Zikr band) called The Sound of Magic premiered at the Kiev Planetarium. Its creator’s united visual effects with wide range of live vocal techniques, like throat singing, in a show. \n\nIn late spring 2017 Lux Aeterna takes part in the Tessart project, a center of art and immersive technologies in St. Petersburg, Russia. The theater group, joined by Nikolay Matveev, an associate professor of light design, creates a space called LuxAeterna 360°+ for the project. It is a mobile dome for 15 spectators, built for a real-time deep relaxation and visual art experience. \n\nAt the moment Lux Aeterna Theater is creating a medical approach to light and sound performances. The theater group, joined by a stress expert Vladimir Brody, are further developing the relaxation effects their seances have on the spectators. The VGoray Project is about eliminating stress and work-related health problems. Studies to determine the mechanisms of the theater's impact on the humans' psycho-emotional state and the development of methods for the formation of a restoring audio-visual environment are conducted at the Higher School of Light Design of the ITMO University, at the Department of General and Clinical Psychology of First Pavlov State Medical University of St. Petersburg and at the Medical Faculty of the University of Debrecen . \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16917906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16917906", "title": "Madhumalati", "text": "Madhumalati\n\nManjhan Madhumalati is an Indian Sufi text, written in 1545 by Mir Sayyid Manjhan Shattari Rajgiri. \n"}
{"id": "2894361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2894361", "title": "Marion Fairfax", "text": "Marion Fairfax\n\nMarion Fairfax (October 24, 1875 – October 2, 1970) was an American screenwriter and playwright. Born as Marion Neiswanger in Richmond, Virginia, After she graduated from Chicago's South Division High School, she enrolled in Emerson College in Boston, Massachusetts. She was married to actor Tully Marshall for forty-three years. Fairfax worked as a company director, director, editor, editorial director, playwright, producer, screenwriter and theatre actress.\n\nFairfax first started her career as a stage actress, just like many other women did in that era. By 1901 she was appearing on Broadway and soon after that her own plays started appearing on Broadway. Before she went into pictures she was known for being one of the most distinguished stage authors in the United States, writing Broadway hits such as \"The Builders\" (1907), \"The Chaperon\" (1908), \"The Talker\" (1912), \"A Modern Girl\" (1914), In 1915 The Lasky Feature Play Company entered into a contract with Fairfax. This opportunity gave Fairfax the chance to work under William C. DeMille who is known as the author for many successful plays such as \"The Warrens of Virginia\" and \"The Woman.\" The success of Fairfax comes through wide knowledge of dramatic values, not only from an author's perspective but also from that of the artist.\n\nFairfax's production career began with the Paramount Company. During her time there she wrote the scripts to multiple successful photoplays such as \"The Clown\", \"The Honor of His House\", \"The Valley of the Giants\", \"The Westerner\", \"The Sowers\", \"The Immigrant\" and many more. In October 1920 Fairfax renewed a contract with Marshall Neilan. After building a successful resume with Neilan, which included the production and script writing of films such as \"Don't ever marry\", \"The Rivers End\", \"Dinty\" and \"Go and Get it\", Fairfax was in charge of Neilan's next four films. Her first project is based on a Ben Ames Williams magazine story called \"Not a Drum Was Heard\".\n\nAfter spending her early career with Neilan, Fairfax soon developed her own production company in 1921. At this point in her career Fairfax was known for being a famous playwright and a very successful screenwriter. Many other women have attempted to pursue careers in film at this point but it was Lois Weber and Fairfax proving that women can survive in the film industry. Exhibitors Herald asked Fairfax about the start of her own company and she had this to say: \"The formation of Marion Fairfax Productions is not the result of a sudden decision or and overnight idea. It is the realization of a plan that I have studied and worked out for over a year. I believe there is a place for the combination of literary effort and motion picture presentation just as there is a place for the combination of literary achievement and stage presentation.\" With a new production company at her disposal Fairfax began working on a highly anticipated film called \"The Lying Truth\" which starred Marjorie Daw, J. Pat O'Malley, Noah Beery, Sr., and Tully Marshall. Released in July 1922 \"The Lying Truth\" was quickly recognized as a masterpiece.\n\nFairfax's success with her own production company provided her with enough experience and credibility in the film industry to progress even further. In September 1923 she was signed to the writing staff of Associated First National Pictures, Inc. Acquiring Fairfax gave First National Picture a popular writer who at the time was specializing in original stories and adaptions of popular plays. After two years of writing for First National Editorial, Fairfax resigned from her post to enter the production field again. At the time Fairfax was one of the most accomplished playwrights in New York Theater and an author scenarist, editorial and production supervisor of film plays. Her previous experience and success as the head of Marion Fairfax Production made this transition effortless.\n\nNot long after her separation from First National Picture Inc. Fairfax formed an alliance with Sam E. Rork that would cut the production cost for two producers working together. Ideally the plan would allow both producers to have shared access to technical staff by way of production scheduling. While one producer is cutting a picture and preparing for their next project the other would be utilizing the designated \"shooting staff.\" This dual production plan allows these two independent producers to have access to a permanent technical organization. With out a dual partnership these two producers would have a very hard time trying to afford such an imperative function of film production. In 1926 Fairfax produced \"The Blonde Saint\" (1926) and then disappeared from filmmaking. Tully Marshall died in 1943 and Fairfax died October 2, 1970.\n\n"}
{"id": "44548397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44548397", "title": "Memorial for the Victims of Nazi Military Justice", "text": "Memorial for the Victims of Nazi Military Justice\n\nThe Memorial for the Victims of Nazi Military Justice was inaugurated on 24 October 2014. It is located at the Ballhausplatz in the centre of Vienna, opposite the President's office and the Austrian Chancellory. The monument was created by German conceptual artist Olaf Nicolai. The inscription atop the three-step sculpture features the poem by Scottish poet Ian Hamilton Finlay consisting of just two words: \"all alone\".\n\nOf the Germans and Austrians who deserted the Wehrmacht, 15,000 men were executed. In contrast only 18 Germans who deserted in the first world war were executed. Approximately 10 percent of all victims of Nazi Military Justice were Austrians.\n\nIn June 1988 the Initiative for the Creation of a Memorial to Deserters came to life in Ulm and Neu Ulm. A central idea was, \"Desertion is not reprehensible, war is\".\n"}
{"id": "23407994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23407994", "title": "Minced oaths in media", "text": "Minced oaths in media\n\nIt is common to find minced oaths in literature and media. Writers often include minced oaths instead of profanity in their writing so that they do not offend audiences or incur censorship.\n\nW. Somerset Maugham referred to this problem in his 1919 novel \"The Moon and Sixpence\", where he admitted:\n\nStrickland, according to Captain Nichols, did not use exactly the words I have given, but since this book is meant for family reading, I thought it better—at the expense of truth—to put into his mouth language familiar to the domestic circle.\n\nIn particular, authors of children's fiction sometimes put minced oaths into the mouths of characters who swear a lot, as a way of depicting a part of their behaviour that would be unconvincing not to represent, but also avoiding the use of swear words which would be considered unsuitable for children to read.\n\nIn 1851, Charles Dickens wrote:\nBark's parts of speech are of an awful sort—principally adjectives. I won't, says Bark, have no adjective police and adjective strangers in my adjective premises! I won't, by adjective and substantive! ... Give me, says Bark, my adjective trousers!\n\nThe term \"dickens\" itself, probably from the surname, became a minced oath when referring to the devil.\n\nNorman Mailer's novel \"The Naked and the Dead\" uses \"fug\" in place of \"fuck\" throughout.\n\nMystery writer Fran Rizer deploys \"kindergarten cussin'\" in her Callie Parrish series, where the main character can be heard muttering, \"Dalmatian!\" and \"Shih Tzu!\"\n\nIn Robert Jordan's \"The Wheel of Time\" series, characters use oaths such as \"flaming\" or \"blood and ashes\" or the interjection \"light\" in the same strength as a curse word, without having to print swear words.\n\nScience Fiction writer John Brunner, in novels such as \"The Shockwave Rider\" and \"Stand on Zanzibar\", uses 'Shiv' and 'slit' to refer to male and female body parts (and sometimes males and females) respectively.\n\nThe lead characters of Anthony Crowley (a demon) and Aziraphale (an angel) from \"Good Omens\", by Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman, both use minced oaths on a number of occasions, though for different reasons (Aziraphale genuinely means to avoid offense, while Crowley, being a demon, simply finds it more acceptable to his post to say 'gosh' instead of 'God').\n\nIn Stephen King's 2006 novel \"Lisey's Story\", the main characters, Lisey and Scott Landon, use the word \"smuck\" instead of \"fuck\", replacing it wherever \"fuck\" would be conceivably used: \"smucking, mothersmucker, smucked up\", etc.\n\nIn the \"Gaunt's Ghosts\" series by Dan Abnett, the Imperial Guardsmen use the word \"feth\" as a general all-purpose swear word, primarily to replace the word \"fuck\".\n\nIn the series \"TZA\", John Spencer uses \"spash\" in place of most curses from the second book forth.\n\nThroughout his comic novel \"Myron\", Gore Vidal replaces various obscenities with the names of judges who were involved in an obscenity trial.\n\nIn the \"Codex Alera\" series, by Jim Butcher, most obscenities are replaced with a variation of the word crow, e.g. crows or crowbegotten.\n\nTerry Pratchett uses minced oaths for comic effect, for example in Mort: \"\"A wizard. I hate ----ing wizards.\" \"Well, you shouldn't ---- them then,\" replied the second, effortlessly pronouncing a row of dashes.\" In a later book, The Truth, the character Mr Tulip habitually and persistently uses a similarly diagetic form of pseudo-profane interjection throughout his dialogue.\n\nIn Stephen King's 2009 novel \"Under the Dome\", the character 'Big Jim' Rennie avoids swearing by replacing words such as \"fucking and clusterfuck\" with \"cottonpicking and clustermug\".\n\nErnest Hemingway substituted muck for that with which it rhymes in 'Across the River and into the Trees ' and fornicate for that with which it doesn't rhyme in 'For Whom the Bell Tolls.' It makes for some awkward constructions in the latter.\n\nSpider Robinson, in his science fiction novels, consistently uses \"kark\" in place of \"fuck\", and \"taken slot\" in place of \"fucking slut\" -- \"slot\" perhaps being also a reference to the female anatomy as receptacle.\n\nWarriors features the minced oaths of \"mouse-dung\" and rarely \"fox-dung,\" and others relevant to the forest are used in place of curses.\n\nIn the Judge Dredd comic strip featured in \"2000 AD\", the futuristic justice department approved the terms \"Stomm\", \"Drokk\", and \"Grud\". This last is a clear reference to the Christian God as it is accompanied by the apparatus of an organized religion, including \"Church of Grud\" and similar. Use of the terms includes the colorful \"Grud on a Greenie!\". From 1977 to 1979, \"2000 AD\" also featured a \"Dan Dare\" comic strip, loosely set in the same continuity as \"Judge Dredd\", and these strips too used such parlance as \"Stomm\" and \"Drokk\".\n\nIn comic series \"Johnny the Homicidal Maniac\", the characters sometimes use the word \"fook\" in place of \"fuck\".\n\nThe DC Comics character Lobo, an invulnerable, intergalactic bounty hunter uses the term \"bastich\" or \"bastiches\" as a combination of bastard and bitch. i.e. \"Take that you lousy bastiches!\"\n\nCaptain Haddock, from \"The Adventures of Tintin\", swears unlike a real sailor with sesquipedalian ejaculations like \"billions of blistering blue barnacles\" and \"thundering typhoons\".\n\nIn the Al Pacino epic \"Scarface\", the title character Tony Montana, played by Pacino, is warned by his Colombian accomplice in the censored version of the film, \"Don't fool with me, Tony\", and \"I warned you not to fool with me, you foolish little monkey\". Otherwise, the film, especially in its uncensored version, is filled with use of the word 'fuck', and the censored TV version replaces these in their dozens with 'fool'.\n\n\"Napoleon Dynamite\", in the film of the same name, which is rated PG, uses minced oaths to a particularly comical effect.\n\nIn the 1945 war film \"A Walk in the Sun\", the screenplay substitutes \"loving\" for \"fucking\" (the universal American soldier's descriptor).\n\nIn \"A Christmas Story\", the character Ralphie is punished by his parents for saying \"Oh, fuck,\" although the offensive word is replaced with \"fudge\" in the film. The narrator, an adult version of Ralphie (voiced by Jean Shepherd), explains that \"I didn't say fudge. I said THE word...the queen mother of dirty words: the F-dash-dash-dash word.\"\n\nIn the 1984 film \"Johnny Dangerously\", the character Roman Maronie is known for butchering the English language, especially English vulgarities:\n\nOne of the more infamous TV edits is that of John McClane's iconic line from \"Die Hard\", \"Yippee-ki-yay, motherfucker\" is changed to \"Yippee-ki-yay, Mr. Falcon\".\n\nThe TV edit of the film \"The Usual Suspects\", instead of having the police lineup say, \"Give me the keys, you fucking cocksucker\", they say \"Give me the keys, you fairy godmother\".\n\nIn the 1998 film \"The Big Lebowski\", a well-known television edit exists of one profane-heavy scene altered. \"See what happens when you fuck a stranger in the ass\" is changed to \"See what happens when you find a stranger in the alps\" and \"this is what happens when you feed a stoner scrambled eggs\".\n\nA television edit of the film \"Repo Man\" contains the injunction \"Flip you, melon farmer!\" (Fuck you, motherfucker!)\n\nA censored version of the 2004 film Shaun of the Dead contains a scene where \"fuck\" and \"prick\" are changed to \"funk\" and \"prink\", respectively. This leads to an exchange of minced oaths beginning, \"it's four in the funking morning!\" and ending with \"it's not hip-hop, it's electro. Prink\".\n\nIn Disney's 2016 animated film \"Zootopia\", Officer Judy Hopps uses the minced oath \"Oh sweet cheese and crackers\".\nThe televised version of the 2006 film \"Snakes on a Plane\" received the following edits to two of Samuel L. Jackson's lines: The line \"I've had with these motherfucking snakes on this motherfucking plane\" was changed to \"I've had it with these monkey-fighting snakes on this Monday-to-Friday plane\", and a later use of \"fucking\" is replaced with \"freaking\".\n\nLate Elizabethan drama contains a profusion of minced oaths, probably due to Puritan opposition to swearing. Seven new minced oaths are first recorded between 1598 and 1602, including \"<nowiki>'sblood</nowiki>\" for \"By God's blood\" from Shakespeare, \"<nowiki>'slight</nowiki>\" for \"God's light\" from Ben Jonson, and \"<nowiki>'snails</nowiki>\" for \"By God's nails\" from the historian John Hayward. Swearing on stage was officially banned by the Act to Restraine Abuses of Players in 1606, and a general ban on swearing followed in 1623.\n\nIn some cases the original meanings of these minced oaths were forgotten; \"<nowiki>'struth</nowiki>\" (\"By God's truth\") came to be spelled \"<nowiki>'strewth</nowiki>\" and \"zounds\" changed pronunciation so that it no longer sounded like \"By God's wounds\". Other examples from this period include \"<nowiki>'slid</nowiki>\" for \"By God's eyelid\" (1598) and \"sfoot\" for \"By God's foot\" (1602). \"Gadzooks\" for \"by God's hooks\" (the nails on Christ's cross) followed in the 1650s, \"egad\" for \"oh God\" in the late 17th century, and \"ods bodikins\" for \"by God's little body\" in 1709. This is similar to the use popularized in the 1950s of \"gee whiz\" as an oath for \"Jesus' wisdom\".\n\nIn modern times, the gang members in the musical \"West Side Story\" talk in an invented 1950s-style slang that includes several minced oaths. At the end of the \"Jet Song,\" they sing \"We're gonna beat / Every last buggin' gang / On the whole buggin' street / On the whole ever-mother-lovin' street!\" where \"buggin\" and \"mother-lovin\" are obvious minced oaths.\n\n\"Freaking\" (or sometimes \"fricking\") is often employed on U.S. over-the-air television entertainment programming as an alternative to the adjective \"fucking\", as in \"where's my freaking food?\" It is rarely used to replace \"fucking\" as a term for sexual intercourse.\n\nIn the \"Father Ted\" episode \"The Old Grey Whistle Theft\", Ted's picnic at the local picnic area is disturbed by people claiming that he is in their \"fupping spot\". The man yells out \"Fup off, ya grasshole\" and when Ted asks them why they are talking like that, the man points to a list of picnic area rules, one of which is \"No Swearing\". The man finishes by yelling out \"Fup off, ya pedrophile.\" In every single episode of \"Father Ted\" no Irish character utters the word \"fuck\", apart from one scene in \"Chirpy Burpy Cheap Sheep\" where the phrase \"fucking hell\" is shouted twice; although its attenuated alternative \"feck\" is heard repeatedly throughout.\n\nIn both incarnations of the television series \"Battlestar Galactica\", characters use the word \"frack\" (original) or \"frak\" (re-imagined) in place of \"fuck\" in every sense of the word, as an interjection, as an alternative to the adjective \"fucking\", as in \"where's my fracking food?\" as well as \"fuck\" or \"fucking\" as a term for sexual intercourse. Characters in the original series also use \"felgercarb\" in place of \"shit\". Characters on \"Veronica Mars\" then adopted \"frak\" from \"Battlestar Galactica\".\n\nIn the TV series \"Farscape\" the characters use the word \"frell\" as a combination of \"frig\", \"fuck\", and \"hell\" (as in \"What the frell is going on?\"), and the word \"dren\" instead of \"shit\". \"Hezmana\" and \"yotz\" are also used as rough replacements for \"hell\" and \"crap\" respectively.\n\nIn the TV series \"Firefly\", characters often use the word \"gorram\" in place of \"goddam\" or \"god damned.\" Further, the word \"fuck\" and its variants is replaced variously by \"hump\", \"humped\" or \"rutting\". For example, \"I would appreciate it if one person on this boat would not assume I'm an evil, lecherous hump,\" \"If they find us at all, we're humped.\" and \"It's the chain I go get and beat you with 'til you understand who's in ruttin' command here.\" Additionally, the characters do much of their cursing in Mandarin Chinese. This keeps the show unobjectionable enough to air on network television, yet at the same time maintain a realistic level of profanity for a show about outlaws, inspired by the wild west.\n\nLikewise, in \"Red Dwarf\", characters use a series of minced oaths regularly. Two such are used moderately, \"Gimboid\" and \"goit\" are derivations of \"gimp\" and \"git\" respectively (although \"git\" is frequently used also), but the final is a series trademark, \"smeg\". Although it is said to have derived from \"smegma\", the show's writers have said it is just a coincidence, as its similarity to the label of an Italian white-goods manufacturer. In any case, it has evolved into a word almost entirely specific to the Red Dwarf universe and numerous alterations were used in the show, such as: \"smeg-head\", \"smeg-for-brains\", \"smegging\", etc.\n\nIn \"South Park\" the word \"fudge\" (instead of \"fuck\") is frequently used, especially in the episode \"Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls\", where Chef sells chocolate fudge delicacies called \"Fudge 'Ems\", \"Fudge This\", \"Go Fudge Yourself\", \"I Don't Give a Flying Fudge\" and \"I Just Went and Fudged Your Momma\". \"Lover\" and \"loving\" are used in place of \"fuck\" through the \"South Park\" episode \"Chickenlover\". This is explained in the episode to be for the purpose of protecting young news viewers.\n\nThe television series \"A Bit of Fry and Laurie\" contains a sketch in which Fry and Laurie employ minced oaths; it is situated in a courthouse, and Laurie plays a policeman reciting the words of an offender. Examples include, \"I apprehended the accused and advised him of his rights. He replied \"Why don't you ram it up your pim-hole, you fusking cloff prunker.\"\" and \"Skank off, you cloffing cuck, you're all a load of shote-bag fuskers, so prunk that up your prime-ministering pim-hole.\" The sketch ends with Fry asking of Laurie's response to this language, and Laurie proclaiming, \"I told him to mind his fucking language, m'lud.\"\n\nIn the Nickelodeon children's show \"iCarly\", characters often use the term \"chizz\" as a general purpose expletive, most often used in place of 'shit'.  \"iCarly\" is notorious for its thinly veiled adult humor.  Likewise, in the spinoff \"Sam & Cat\", the term \"wazz\" is used in place of 'piss'.\n\nCharacters in the series \"The Good Place\" find themselves in an afterlife where they are incapable of using profanity. When they intend to curse, the word instead comes out as a benign minced oath such as \"fork\" for \"fuck\", \"shirt\" for \"shit\", or \"bench\" for \"bitch\".\n\nDubbing of movies for television often replaces \"Fuck you!\" with \"Forget you!\", \"bastard\" with \"buzzard\", \"fucking\" with \"stinking\", and \"prick\" with \"pig\".\n\nThe Fugs, a mid-1960s band named by Tuli Kupferberg, used a euphemism for \"fuck\" found in Norman Mailer's novel (above), \"The Naked and the Dead\".\n\nIn a discussion of profanity, writer Leigh Lundin uses the glyph ƒ. He further discusses being \"nannied\" by Internet software, noting that words like cockatoo, pussycat, and even Hummer may be flagged, which has become known as the Scunthorpe problem.\n\nIn that vein, ProBoards forums replace the word \"cock\" with \"thingy\", thereby transforming the statement \"cock his shotgun\" into \"thingy his shotgun\". Similarly, the Something Awful forums, filters replace \"fuck\" with the phrase \"gently caress\" and \"shit\" with \"poo-poo\" for unregistered users, and the Fark website replaces words such as \"fuck\" with \"fark\".\n\nOnline, alternative typographical glyphs are sometimes used to evade profanity filters (such as $hit or $#!+ instead of shit, @$$ or @rse instead of ass or arse).\n\n\"fsck\", from \"filesystem check\", is commonly used on Usenet and in other technology-related circles to replace \"fuck\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34269647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34269647", "title": "Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children", "text": "Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children\n\nMiss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children is a contemporary fantasy debut novel by American author Ransom Riggs. The story is told through a combination of narrative and vernacular photographs from the personal archives of collectors listed by the author.\n\nThis young adult book was originally intended to be a picture book featuring photographs Riggs had collected, but on the advice of an editor at Quirk Books, he used the photographs as a guide from which to put together a narrative. Riggs was a collector of photographs, but needed more for his novel. He met Leonard Lightfoot, a well-known collector at the Rose Bowl Flea Market, and was introduced to other collectors. The result was a story about a boy who follows clues from his grandfather's old photographs, tales, and his grandfather's last words which lead him on an adventure that takes him to a large abandoned orphanage on Cairnholm, a fictional Welsh island.\n\nThe book has been a \"New York Times\" best seller. It reached the #1 spot on the Children's Chapter Books list on April 29, 2012, after being on the list for 45 weeks, remaining there until 20 May, when it dropped to the fourth spot on the list. Critics have generally praised the book for creative use of vintage photographs in the sepia style and surrealist form, as well as good characterization and settings.\n\nAs a child, Jacob Magellan Portman has been fascinated with his grandfather Abraham's stories about surviving as a Jew during World War II, running from man-eating monsters, and living with peculiar children in a secret home guarded by \"a wise old bird\". As Jacob grows older, he begins to doubt the stories until the arrival of his grandfather's death. Blood-strewn, exhausted, and lying in his back garden on the outskirts of Florida Woods, Abraham's last words are a mystery: \"...find the bird in the loop on the other side of the old man's grave on September 3, 1940, and tell them what happened.\" As he dies, Jacob catches sight of a horrific monster just like the ones described in Abraham's stories. Soon, he starts experiencing trauma and being plagued with nightmares relating to those monsters. Believing their son to be going crazy, Jacob's parents take him to Dr. Golan, a psychiatrist, who suggests that Jacob go to Cairnholm, Wales, the location of his grandfather's children's home to confront the place of his trauma. Accompanied by his father, Jacob locates and explores the old house only to find it empty and everything caked in dust. According to the local people, the place is haunted and a bomb had killed all its inhabitants many years ago, on September 3, 1940.\n\nSensing a connection, Jacob refuses to give up and returns to the house one more time, where he encounters a mysterious girl who can conjure fire with her hands whom he follows, trying to question her after hearing her call out his grandfather's name. They reach the bogs surrounding the house before Jacob realizes that the people of Cairnholm are different, including the patrons at the inn and his father is not there. Luckily, a confused Jacob is rescued by the girl from before and an invisible boy, who introduce themselves as Emma Bloom and Millard Nullings respectively. A suspicious Emma holds him captive and brings him to the children's home, where he finds it magically transformed to the paradise of his grandfather's stories, complete with the peculiar children and the \"wise old bird\", who is in fact the headmistress Miss Alma LeFay Peregrine. There Jacob is also introduced to other peculiar children apart from Emma and Millard: Bronwyn Bruntley, a girl with incredible strength, Claire Densmore, a little girl with an extra mouth at the back of her head, Olive Abroholos Elephanta, a little girl who can levitate, Enoch O'Connor, a boy who can raise the dead by transplanting hearts for a short amount of time, Hugh Apiston, a boy with bees living in his stomach, Fiona Frauenfeld, a girl with an affinity for growing plants, and Horace Somnusson, a boy with prophetic dreams. Shocked and befuddled by the state of the place, Olive and Millard explain that they are currently existing in a time loop, a place where time is constantly reversed and where they all relive the same day everyday, September 3, 1940. This is all thanks to Miss Peregrine, a special type of peculiar being known as an \"ymbryne\", one who can shapeshift into birds and manipulate time. Apart from keeping them alive (if not the bomb would have killed them), this time loop also protects the peculiar children from being hunted by hollowgast — humanoid, tentacle-mouthed creatures that devour peculiars. That experiment occurred in the Siberian tundra, which was marked by a cataclysmic explosion, and from there the hollowgast were born. In addition to hollowgast being a threat, hollows who have consumed enough peculiars are evolved into wights, beings who resemble humans in every aspect save their eyes, which have no pupils. These wights' ultimate goal is to gain power from the peculiars, as well as morph every one of their fellow hollowgast into wights that will rule the world.\n\nSoon, Miss Peregrine's former mentor Miss Avocet arrives at the loop mad with grief over the kidnapping of her wards to wights, who have executed their plan of raiding loops. Fearing for the children's safety, Jacob is tasked with the job of reporting any suspicious information going on in the outside world. With his comings and goings, Jacob and Emma begin to develop feelings for each other, as well as get a glimpse into his own peculiar self: he can see the hollows while other peculiars can't, just like his grandfather. Miss Peregrine's fears are confirmed when eyeless sheep bodies begin to pile up, and Martin, a worker in the Cairnholm Local Museum, is killed. Going against Miss Peregrine's orders to not leave the house, Enoch, Bronwyn, Emma, Jacob and Millard escape, and Enoch uses a sheep heart to briefly bring Martin back to life. Martin manages to inform the group of the presence of a wight on the island, but by then it is too late as one appears right behind them along with a hollow companion. To Jacob's shock, he reveals himself to be Dr. Golan, as well as Jacob's family's hired lawn gardener, and Jacob's middle school bus driver. Jacob refuses Golan's offer to join him in finding peculiars, and decides to stay with his friends. Golan sends his hollow after the group, and Emma and Jacob split up from the rest. After a brief scuffle, Jacob kills it with a pair of sheep shears. They make their way back to the orphanage, but discover that Golan has kidnapped Miss Peregrine and Miss Avocet and locked the rest of the children in the house.\n\nDr. Golan warns them not to attempt to rescue Miss Peregrine and leaves the loop, but Millard manages to sneak out invisibly and follow him. Jacob and his friends follow Millard's tracks and find Golan near a lighthouse trying to catch a boat with his other wight comrades. During the process of saving Miss Peregrine, who is trapped in her bird form, Millard is wounded from a gunshot, but Golan is ultimately killed by Jacob. Just then, the other wights arrive and even though they are able to rescue Miss Peregrine, Miss Avocet is taken away. Returning to the orphanage, they find it destroyed, leaving them having to track down the wights and discover how to help Miss Peregrine. It is then Jacob decides to follow his friends and returns to the present to say goodbye to his father, but promises to return when his mission is finished. Guided by only a prophetic dream from Horace, they set sail to find help.\n\nOtherwise known as \"syndrigast\" (a word meaning \"peculiar spirit\" in the Old Peculiar language, which is in turn the author's adaptation of Old English, or Anglo-Saxon language), peculiar folk are a branch of humanity possessing a second soul which manifests itself in strange ways such as abnormal characteristics and abilities commonly referred to as \"peculiarities\". Very rarely are peculiar children born to peculiar parents as the essence or gene of peculiarity often skips entire generations, making peculiar population vastly less than that of normal people.\n\nAn ymbryne (pronounced \"IMM-brinn\") is a specific kind of female peculiar who can transform into distinct birds, control and manipulate time as she sees fit, and govern the peculiar world. Most essentially, the ability to control time lets these women possess a period of historical time by looping it, creating a potentially eternal sanctuary for peculiars. They often set out into the present-day world to rescue peculiars in dire situations or to search for those without an ymbryne. \"Ymbryne\" means \"revolution\" or \"circuit\" in Old Peculiar.\n\nThe Council of Ymbrynes is the official government and law of peculiardom. Their responsibilities include the maintenance of loop order, the writing or amending of laws on a regular basis, and the determination of sentences for those convicted of a crime. Members are not specified.\n\nTime loops are the fabric of the peculiar world, often referred to as peculiardom. Similar to towns, cities, states, and countries, they act as specific locations. Together they create a vast and quite complex world of varying whereabouts and dates only peculiars are able to enter. Within these loops, peculiars live indefinitely without aging or reliving previous experiences, even as the day around them repeats itself. While it may appear to be a form of eternal youth, it is the suspension of time inevitable. In reality, many, if not all, of Miss Peregrine's children are over fifty years old, but the loop detains them as teenagers and small children physically and mentally. A loop must be reset daily or it will collapse, leaving all peculiars within it exposed to the outside world.\n\nAs a result of time loops, those who reside in them may not be able to return to the present day, depending on how long they've been there. In a mere matter of hours outside of the loop, the amount of time evaded will catch up. An example of this is Miss Peregrine's own former ward, a young girl named Charlotte who left the loop while Miss Peregrine was away. She was discovered by police in the mid-1980s and sent to a welfare agency. When Miss Peregrine found her just two days later, she'd already aged thirty-five years. Although she survived the ordeal, the unnatural aging process had caused Charlotte a great deal of mental disorder, and she was sent to live with Miss Nightjar, an ymbryne more suited for her care. The same process of deterioration applies to anything taken out of time loops as another instance was an apple Jacob took back to the inn where he and his father were staying in the present day. He left it on the nightstand next to his bed as he fell asleep that night, but by morning, found it had rotted to the point of disintegrating.\n\nA word meaning \"empty spirit\". The hollowgast are monsters who feed on peculiars. They were created by a freak-accident in an unethical and illegal experiment conducted by Miss Peregrine's two brothers. Hundreds had joined their cause, and with the aid of misguided but powerful ymbrynes, it was intended to achieve immortality without the limitations of time loops. Instead, it led to a catastrophic collapse that destroyed half of Siberia where the experiment took place. Everyone involved was presumed dead, but their corpses became deformed and crawled back to a lesser, animalistic state of life. Apart from their shadows, hollows are invisible to all but a gifted few including Abraham and Jacob Portman. They are also identified by the groups of large tentacle-like tongues that occupy their grotesquely stretched mouths. It is speculated that this outcome was the result of being reverse-aged to a time before their souls existed, thus the word \"hollowgast\". Their souls having been erased, hollows possess no form of peculiarity and cannot enter time loops.\n\nIf a hollow consumes enough peculiar souls, its original human form is restored, with the exception of irises and pupils leaving the eyes entirely white. Because of this, peculiars refer to these evolved creatures as wights. They possess no extraordinary abilities but are highly skilled in posing as normal people under multiple identities and can even pass into time loops. Much of their existence revolves around procuring peculiars for remaining hollows to devour.\n\n\nAll ymbrynes take on last names which correspond to the type of bird into which they can shapeshift (e.g., Miss Peregrine can turn into a peregrine falcon).\n\n\n\n\"Miss Peregrine's\" spent seventy weeks on \"The New York Times\" Best Sellers list for children's chapter books. It reached the number one spot on the list on April 29, 2012 after being on the list for forty-five weeks. It remained there until 20 May, when it dropped to the fourth spot on the list. The book dropped off the list on September 9, 2012, after sixty-three weeks.\n\nAccording to Deborah Netburn for the \"Los Angeles Times\", the best part of the novel is \"a series of black-and-white photos sprinkled throughout the book\". \"Publishers Weekly\" called the book \"an enjoyable, eccentric read distinguished by well-developed characters, a believable Welsh setting, and some very creepy monsters.\"\n\nA sequel, titled \"Hollow City\", was released on January 14, 2014. The novel is set immediately after the first, and sees Jacob and his friends fleeing from Miss Peregrine's to the \"peculiar capital of the world\", London.\n\nThe third installment in the Miss Peregrine's series, titled \"Library of Souls\", was announced in early 2015. It was released on September 22, 2015.\n\n\"A Map of Days\", the first installment of a new trilogy set in the United States and featuring the main protagonists from the original trilogy, was released on October 2, 2018 by Dutton Books for Young Readers (a division of Penguin Group).\n\nAn original graphic novel adaptation by Cassandra Jean was released in November 2013.\n\nA film adaptation of the book was released in the United States on September 30, 2016. It was directed by Tim Burton from a screenplay by Jane Goldman. Eva Green played Miss Peregrine in the film, along with Asa Butterfield as Jacob, and Ella Purnell as Emma Bloom.\n"}
{"id": "14600683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14600683", "title": "Music Together", "text": "Music Together\n\nMusic Together is a music and movement program for children aged newborn through second grade. First offered to the public in 1987, the program is now offered in over 3000 communities in the United States, as well as over 40 other countries around the world. This expansion has been accomplished through independent centers which are licensed to use the program. All teachers must attend and pass a Music Together teacher training.\n\nSince its inception, Music Together has emphasized the importance of having parents and caregivers actively participate in class with their children. This is based in part on the work of early childhood educator Lilian Katz, who noted that while children can learn skills and knowledge from any adult, they learn dispositions only from their loved ones; by participating in class as musical role-models, parents and caregivers help impart to their children the disposition to become lifelong music-makers.\n\nMusic Together starts with the premise that all children are musical, and that they can achieve basic music competence provided their music environment is sufficiently rich. All class activities are based on Developmentally Appropriate Practice, an approach to learning that takes into account how children really learn at different developmental stages in their lives. Because very young children learn primarily through play, the program provides a fun, relaxed environment with a nonformal teaching approach.\n\nSome critics of this and other early childhood music programs have questioned whether an organized class is necessary to teach children a basic life skill such as singing. However, children can no longer reliably learn music skills from their surrounding environment, as they could several generations ago, due to a steady decrease in live music-making activities available to them. A study done by Levinowitz showed that fewer than 50% of first-graders could sing in tune.\n\nMusic learning is in many ways analogous to language learning; just as the child seems to teach their self language through interacting with a language environment, they teach their self music through being in a music environment. When adults model active singing and movement behaviors, the child imitates and learns. The combination of classroom activities and at-home music-making inspired by a recording and songbook help children learn music skills naturally and effortlessly.\n\nMusic Together is noted for a repertoire which emphasizes the use of a wide variety of musical modes (tonalities) and metres. With much of the music of our culture—especially “children’s music”—using predominantly major scales and duple metre, it is difficult for children to gain a breadth of music experience. The Music Together repertoire includes songs in such tonalities as Phrygian mode, aeolian mode, Mixolydian mode, and Dorian mode. Children are also introduced to songs using triple metre and “unusual” metres such as 5/4 or 7/8. In this way, the Music Together repertoire helps strengthen children’s audiation, a termed coined by learning theorist Edwin Gordon to describe the process by which we mentally hear and comprehend music. The ability to audiate is essential to any meaningful music learning.\n\nThere are nine non-sequential Music Together song collections, named Bongos, Bells, Triangle, Fiddle, Drum, Tambourine, Flutes, Sticks and Maracas, forming a three-year cycle taught in fall, winter, and spring semesters. There are also three summer collections, named Summer Songs I, Summer Songs II, and Summer Songs III, which are compilations carefully designed not to include songs from the spring collections before them or the fall collections after them. Families receive one CD and a code to download all of the songs each semester, along with an accompanying illustrated songbook, to facilitate at-home family music-making. The recordings are professionally produced and richly orchestrated, and feature a “family” of singers, representing a mother, father, child, grandmother, and uncle.\n\nMusic Together was founded by Kenneth K. Guilmartin, a composer and musician certified in Dalcroze Eurhythmics. In 1985 Guilmartin founded the Center for Music and Young Children (CMYC) to research and develop early childhood music programs for Birch Tree Group, Ltd., publishers of the Suzuki Method.\n\nIn 1986 Guilmartin began to collaborate with Lili M. Levinowitz, Ph.D., at that time a doctoral student directing the Children’s Music Development Program at Temple University. Levinowitz was a student of learning theorist Edwin Gordon, known for his Music Learning Theory. Guilmartin and Levinowitz were influenced by Gordon’s work, and included tonal patterns and rhythm patterns based on his work in their new program.\n\nMusic Together was first offered to the public in 1987 in a suburb of Philadelphia. After a brief residence at Westminster Conservatory of Music in Princeton, NJ, the company moved to a studio on Nassau Street in Princeton in 1989, the same year that it offered its first teacher training. In 1997, the year of its tenth anniversary, the company moved to 66 Witherspoon St. in Princeton, with room for its lab school as well as offices. In 2006, the company moved into a newly renovated building in Hopewell, NJ, just outside Princeton.\n\nGuilmartin, Kenneth K., and Lili M. Levinowitz. \"Music and Your Child: A Guide for Parents and Caregivers.\" Princeton, NJ: Center for Music and Young Children, 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "17343536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17343536", "title": "New Music Economy", "text": "New Music Economy\n\nNew Music Economy is a term describing the emergent social, technical, political and economic context of the creative industries. This shift in context has been fueled by concurrent evolution within an ecosystem of interdependent technologies, institutions, and individuals; the result of which impacts the nature of creative property, identity, production, distribution and imagination.\n\nThe term New Music Economy is evolving out of new consumer behavior, methods of promotion and sales.\n\nNotable changes in the economic stability of the music industry started in the late 1990s with the advent of P2P file sharing. The Long Tail theory is a benchmark in the music industry for new economic concepts. The nuance of infinite shelf space opened up economic opportunity for independent record labels around the world. The term New Music Economy first emerged in 2007.\n\n\"Music Licensing\" \nBands, artists & labels are able to utilize music licensing for opportunity. Businesses are legally required to pay for the music they use to promote their product. Music has a positive effect on consumer behavior\n\n\"Co-Marketing\" \nBrands and bands joining together to market their product in sync\n\n\"Branding\"\nBands, artists & record labels using digital tools such as widgets, social networks, avatars, and icons\n\n\"Non Traditional Retail Space\"\nSelling music in businesses that don't normally sell music\n\n\"Digital Distribution\" \n(For sale and marketing purposes), including music, merchandise, video, concert tickets\n\n\"Internet Specific Content\"\nCreating and using content online to drive fans toward exclusive content of economic value to the band/ artist/ label\n\n\"Fan Artist Relationship Management\" \nCreation, moderation and maintenance of fan groups, fan sites and fan activities which includes exchanges of data ranging from email addresses to shared taste in music. Increased interaction between fans and artists/ bands/ labels with the use of blogs, fan clubs, forums, SMS, geo tagging\n\n\"Quality Control\"\nBoutique licensing agencies, promotional companies, licensees, record labels and broadcasters focusing on curation & quality\n\n\"Content Management Systems\" \nContent Management Systems (CMS) for bands, labels & artists, building development platforms for artist content and aggregating data for artist usability\n\n\"Legal Structures\" \nExploration, interpretation and invocation of music law to accommodate real changes in technology (example: DMCA)\n\n\"Live Performance\" \nBands & artists utilize new tools to book shows, accrue audiences who will attend shows, communicate tour dates to fans, sell tickets to fans, broadcast performances to fans who are unable to attend, provide attendees with immediate recordings of live performances, perform in creative venues ranging from vineyards (Wente Vineyards) to virtual worlds such as \"Second Life\".\n\n\"Incorporation of Attention Economy Principles in Marketing Strategies\"\nMonitoring attention of consumers online with new metrics and measurements of consumption, rating systems and time spent\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1046676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1046676", "title": "Nicholas Wolterstorff", "text": "Nicholas Wolterstorff\n\nNicholas Wolterstorff (born January 21, 1932) is an American philosopher. A prolific writer with wide-ranging philosophical and theological interests, he has written books on aesthetics, epistemology, political philosophy, philosophy of religion, metaphysics, and philosophy of education. In \"Faith and Rationality,\" Wolterstorff, Alvin Plantinga, and William Alston developed and expanded upon a view of religious epistemology that has come to be known as Reformed epistemology. He also helped to establish the journal \"Faith and Philosophy\" and the Society of Christian Philosophers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNicholas Wolterstorff lives in Grand Rapids, Michigan with his wife Claire. He has 4 grown children and 1 that died at age 25 while mountain climbing in Austria. He has seven grandchildren.\n\nWhile an undergraduate at Calvin College, Wolterstorff was greatly influenced by professors William Harry Jellema, Henry Stob and Henry Zylstra, who introduced him to schools of thought that have dominated his mature thinking: Reformed theology and common sense philosophy (these have also influenced the thinking of Wolterstorff's friend and colleague Alvin Plantinga, another alumnus of Calvin College).\n\nWolterstorff builds upon the ideas of the Scottish common sense philosopher Thomas Reid, who approached knowledge \"from the bottom-up\". Instead of reasoning about transcendental conditions of knowledge, Wolterstorff suggests that knowledge and our knowing faculties are not the subject of our research but have to be seen as its starting point. Wolterstorff rejects classical foundationalism and instead sees knowledge as based upon insights in reality which are direct and indubitable.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12482001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12482001", "title": "Norwegian Design and Architecture Centre", "text": "Norwegian Design and Architecture Centre\n\nNorwegian Design Council () was a Norwegian state-controlled foundation that encouraged good design of Norwegian products as a key to improved innovation and the products international reputation and sales.\n\nAmong the activities of the Norwegian Design Council were awarding the \"Merket for God Design\" and \"Design Effekt\" awards. It also cooperated closely with Innovation Norway concerning new ventures. The council worked as a competence centre and was funded by the Norwegian Ministry of Trade and Industry, through consulting and through other projects. \nThe Norwegian Design Council was founded in 1963 by the Norwegian Export Council and the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise. In 2014, the Norwegian Design and Architecture Centre (\"Norsk design- og arkitektursenter\") was established as a fusion of the Norwegian Design Council with the Norwegian Form (\"Norsk Form\"), a national institution working in the fields of design, architecture, and urban development. The combined entity is housed in two renovated industrial buildings by the Aker River on Hausmanns gate in Oslo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7601841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7601841", "title": "Pathfinder Mural", "text": "Pathfinder Mural\n\nThe Pathfinder Mural is a work of art formerly located at 410 West Street in the New York City neighborhood known as the West Village. It was conceived of by artist Mike Alewitz in 1988 and painted as a collaboration among eighty artists from twenty nations, who painted it on the side of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) building housing the Pathfinder Press, the publishing arm of the Pathfinder tendency, a left-wing organization.\n\nThe mural consisted of a red-colored printing press in the center, out of which seemed to flow posters of revolutionary heroes, with crowds of people depicted above and below the press. Well-known activists and political figures included Martin Luther King, Jr., Sojourner Truth, Malcolm X, Fidel Castro, Stephen Biko, and Harriet Tubman. The press itself is printing Fidel Castro's words, \"The truth must not be only the truth--it must also be told.\"\n\nThe SWP commissioned the mural at the suggestion of Alewitz, a long-time member of the party. \n\nParticipants in the project included artists such as Armand Vaillancourt, Dumile Feni, Arnoldo Guillien and Carlos Montenegro. There were also other, anonymous contributors with revolutionary and/or working-class backgrounds. \n\nIn an interview with the New York Times dated September 7, 1997, Alewitz said of the mural \"I wanted to do this one because Pathfinder represents the tradition of publishing important revolutionary ideas. I'm critical of the New York art scene. I find that much of the art taught in the schools and produced through the gallery system reflects the values of the cynical and confused middle class. Basically, a stronger art is produced in those societies--like Cuba and Nicaragua--where there's a pulling together, an optimism about going forward.\"\n\nPolitical conflicts, however, beset the project. From the right, Patrick Buchanan attacked it in the Washington Times as \"a six-story shrine to communism, a Marxist Mount Rushmore in Greenwich Village.\" More disruptive to the project were criticisms from the SWP itself who criticized Alewitz' vision of a work that would depict revolutionary heroes as human beings and insisted on an homage to the party's heroes and attempted to micromanage the project by issuing directives on matters such as how large Leon Trotsky's head should be. \n\nA quotation from Eugene Debs' famous anti-war speech made in Canton, Ohio were replaced with words from Fidel Castro. Also removed were personal touches by Alewitz such as depictions of two students killed by the National Guard at Kent State University in 1970, one of whom had been a close friend of Alewitz’s.\n\nAlewitz was expelled from the SWP prior to the project's conclusion and was excluded from its opening ceremony.\n\nIn 1996, the mural was permanently removed in order to repair cracks in the exterior wall of the Pathfinder building.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "423343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423343", "title": "Plastic arts", "text": "Plastic arts\n\nPlastic arts are art forms which involve physical manipulation of a plastic medium by molding or modeling such as sculpture or ceramics. \n\nLess often, and less usefully, the term may be used broadly for all the visual arts (such as painting, sculpture, film and photography), as opposed to literature and music.\n\nMaterials for use in the plastic arts, in the narrower definition, include those that can be carved or shaped, such as stone or wood, concrete, glass, or metal.\n\nThe term \"plastic\" has been used to mean certain synthetic organic resins ever since they were invented, but the term \"plastic arts\" long preceded them. \n\nThe term should not be confused, either, with Piet Mondrian's concept of \"Neoplasticism\".\n\nIn contrast to the limiting of 'plastic arts' to sculpture and architecture by Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling in 1807, the German critic August Wilhelm Schlegel (1767-1845) applied the concept not only to visual arts, but also poetry. \n\nClassical poetry lines he saw utilizing plastic isolation, and rhyme falling under the Romantic (domain). . \n\nIn Schlegel's Viennese lectures (1809-1811), published in 1827 as \"On the Theory and History of the Plastic Arts\", he contrasted the plasticism of Classical Art with picturesque Romanticism. He These distinctions were carried over into Russian Romanticism aesthetics, \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48084927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48084927", "title": "Pomological Watercolor Collection", "text": "Pomological Watercolor Collection\n\nThe U.S. Department of Agriculture's Pomological Watercolor Collection is an archive of some 7500 botanical watercolors created for the USDA between the years 1886 and 1942 by around five dozen artists. Housed by the United States National Agricultural Library, it is a unique resource documenting existing fruit and nut cultivars, new introductions, and specimens discovered by USDA's plant explorers, representing 38 plant families in all. It has been called \"one of the world's most unusual holdings of late 19th and early 20th century American botanical illustrations\".\n\nThe archive spans the years in which American agriculture greatly expanded the range of fruits and vegetables grown on a commercial scale and developed many new cultivars. The USDA artists created the watercolors in an effort to catalog these cultivars—many of which went under different names in different regions of the United States—and to show the damage resulting from typical diseases and pests of specific fruits. During this period, many of the watercolors were issued as lithographic illustrations in USDA bulletins and the department's annual yearbooks.\n\nThe period between 1886 and 1916—when most of these watercolors were painted—was a time when the major fruit-producing regions in the United States were just beginning to emerge, as farmers worked with the USDA to establish orchards for expanding markets. Photography was not yet in widespread use as a documentary medium, so the government relied on artists to produce technically accurate drawings of cultivars for its publications.\n\nSome 65 different artists are represented in the collection, of whom one-third were women; working as a government illustrator was one of the few artists' jobs open to women at a time when they were just beginning to be able to gain formal training at American art schools. All but a handful of the collection's 7584 watercolors were created by just nine of the artists, of whom six were women. The top three contributors were Deborah Griscom Passmore, Amanda Almira Newton, and Mary Daisy Arnold, who each painted over 1000 watercolors and between them are responsible for half the collection. Passmore's watercolors in particular have been called the finest done by the early USDA illustrators and a national treasure. Among the other most prolific artists were Royal Charles Steadman (over 850 watercolors), J. Marion Shull (who later became a noted plant breeder; over 750 watercolors), Ellen Isham Schutt (over 700), Bertha Heiges (over 600), Elsie E. Lower (over 250), William Henry Prestele (over 100), and the noted mycologist Louis Charles Christopher Krieger. \n\nSlightly over half of the watercolors show apple cultivars, a good many of which are no longer cultivated. The remainder range from common types of fruits and nuts (grapes, berries, stone fruit, melons, citrus, walnuts, hickory nuts) to lesser-known native fruits (Eastern shadbush) and species newly introduced in the United States or not yet grown there: cherimoya, avocado, natal plum, sweetsop, etc. The specimens depicted were collected throughout the United States and its territories and in nearly 30 other countries as well. The typical watercolor in the collection depicts the whole fruit (sometimes with its leaves) together with a half-view showing its flesh and seeds; some show the fruit in a diseased state.\n\n"}
{"id": "25239725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25239725", "title": "Proletarian Film League of Japan", "text": "Proletarian Film League of Japan\n\nThe was a left-wing film organization, known as Prokino for short, active in the late 1920s and early 1930s in Japan. Associated with the proletarian arts movement in Japan, it primarily used small gauge films such as 16mm film and 9.5mm film to record demonstrations and workers' lives and show them in organized events or, using mobile projection teams, at factories and mines. It also published its own journals. Most of its films were documentaries or newsreels, but Prokino also made fiction films and animated films. Prominent members included Akira Iwasaki and Genjū Sasa, although in its list of supporters one finds such figures as Daisuke Itō, Kenji Mizoguchi, Shigeharu Nakano, Tomoyoshi Murayama, Kiyohiko Ushihara, Kogo Noda, Takiji Kobayashi, Sōichi Ōya, Fuyuhiko Kitagawa, Tokihiko Okada, Matsuo Kishi, Kiyoshi Miki, Denmei Suzuki, Teppei Kataoka, and Shigeyoshi Suzuki. The movement was eventually suppressed by the police under the Peace Preservation Law, but many former members became prominent figures in the Japanese documentary and fiction film industries.\n\n"}
{"id": "22629237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22629237", "title": "Protestant church of Tabriz", "text": "Protestant church of Tabriz\n\nThe Protestant Church is a Christian church in Tabriz in the northwestern Iranian region Iranian Azerbaijan. \n\nIt is located in south Shahnaz street, near the Ararat Cultural Complex of the city.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "47303066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47303066", "title": "Qatari art", "text": "Qatari art\n\nThe modern Qatari art movement emerged in the mid-20th century, as a result of the new-found wealth acquired from oil exports and subsequent modernization of Qatari society. Because of Islam's non-inclusive stance of depictions of sentient beings in visual arts, paintings historically played an insignificant role in the country's culture. Other visual art forms such as calligraphy, architecture and textiles were more highly regarded in the Bedouin tradition.\n\nThe art scene in Qatar witnessed substantial development in the mid- and late 1950s. Initially, arts were overseen by the Ministry of Education, with art exhibitions being hosted in its facilities. In 1972, the government started providing increased funding to aid the development of arts within the country. The father of modern artists in Qatar is Jassim Zaini (1943–2012), whose work explored diversity in techniques and documented the changing society from traditional local life to a global style. The Qatari Fine Arts Society was established in 1980 with the objective of promoting the works of Qatari artists. In 1998, the National Council for Culture, Arts and Heritage was established. \n\nQatar Museums was established in the early 2000s to build and connect all museums and collections in Qatar. Two major museums lead the institution: the Museum of Islamic Art opened in 2008, and the , opened in Education City by Qatar Foundation in 2010.\n\nAncient rock carvings have been discovered in eight separate locations in Qatar: Jebel Jassassiyeh, Jabel Fuwayrit, Freiha, Al Ghariyah, Al Jumail, Simaisma, Al Wakrah and Al Kassar. Most of these sites were discovered by Danish archaeological teams in the 1950s and 1960s. The carvings are classified in a number of categories, including human and animal representation, boat representation, cup-marks, large cavities, geometric designs, tribal marks, and hand- and footprints.\n\nA large number of rock carvings were discovered in Jebel Jassassiyeh, in northeast Qatar, in 1961. Variations in motifs and technique indicate that the carvings were made through various historical periods. Cup-marks are the most common forms of art among the nearly 900 carvings. Other carvings include ships, animals, foot-prints and tribal marks (known as \"wasum\"). Different animals are depicted, such as ostriches, turtles and fish. A large number of the carvings illustrate boats, and this is the only site in Qatar where boat depictions have been recorded. The boats are of different sizes and types, and some contain oars while others do not.\n\nGeometrical designs were recorded at Freiha in four places. They measure 11 to 15 cm in width and 11 to 12 cm in height. Danish archaeologist Peter Glob believed that they were carved by an ancient fertility cult. This theory was disputed by Muhammad Abdul Nayeem, who believes that they are simply abstract symbols or tribal marks.\n\nWeaving and dyeing played a substantial role in Bedouin culture. The process of spinning sheep's and camel's wool to produce cloth was laborious. The wool was first disentangled and tied to a bobbin, which would serve as a core and keep the fibers rigid. This was followed by spinning the wool by hand on a spindle known as a \"noul\". They were then placed on a vertical loom constructed from wood whereupon women would use a stick to beat the weft into place.\n\nThe resulting cloths were used in rugs, carpets and tents. Tents were usually made up of naturally colored cloth, whereas rugs and carpets used dyed cloth, mainly red and yellow. The dyes were made from desert herbs, with simple geometrical designs being employed. The art lost popularity in the 19th century as dyes and cloth were increasingly imported from other regions in Asia.\n\nA simple form of embroidery practiced by Qatari women was known as \"kurar\". It involved four women, each carrying four threads, who braided the threads on articles of clothing, mainly \"thawbs\" or \"abayas\". The braids, varying in color, were sewn vertically. It was similar to heavy chain stitch embroidery. Gold threads, known as \"zari\", were commonly used. They were usually imported from India.\n\nAnother type of embroidery involved the designing of caps called \"gohfiahs\". They were made from cotton and were pierced with thorns from palm-trees to allow the women to sew between the holes. This form of embroidery declined in popularity after the country began importing the caps.\n\n\"Khiyat al madrasa\", translated as 'school embroidery', involved the stitching of furnishings by satin stitching. Prior to the stitching process, a shape was drawn onto the fabric by a skilled artist. The most common designs were birds and flowers.\n\nThe numerous forts found throughout the Qatari peninsula are a testament to the country's ancient construction methods. Most forts were constructed using mainly limestone, with other constituents such as mud and clay brick also being used. A type of mixture consisting of mud and clay brick known locally as \"lubnah\" was sometimes used in the construction of forts, such as in Ar Rakiyat Fort.\n\nMost traditional houses in the capital Doha were tightly packed and arranged around a central courtyard. A number of rooms were situated in the courtyard, most often including a \"majilis\", bathroom and store room. The houses were made from limestone quarried from local sources. Walls surrounding the compounds were made up of compressed mud, gravel and small stones. As they were heavily susceptible to natural erosion, they were protected by gypsum plaster. Mangrove poles wrapped in jute rope provided structural support for the windows and doors.\nRoofs were typically flat and were supported by mangrove poles. The poles were covered with a layer of split bamboo and a palm mat locally called \"manghrour\". The mangrove poles often extended past the exterior walls for decorative purposes. Doors were made of metal or wood. Colored glass employing geometrical designs was sometimes used in windows.\n\nSeveral methods were used in traditional architecture to alleviate the harsh climate of the country. Windows were seldom used in order to reduce heat conduction. The \"badgheer\" construction method allowed air to be channeled into houses for ventilation purposes. This was accomplished by several methods, including horizontal air gaps in rooms and parapets, and vertical openings in wind towers called \"hawaya\" which drew air into the courtyards. Wind towers, however, were not as common in Doha as they were in other parts of the country.\n\nShortly after Qatar gained independence, many of the districts of old Doha, including Al Najada, Al Asmakh and Old Al Hitmi, faced gradual decline, and as a result much of their historical architecture has been demolished. A number of schemes have been taken to preserve the city's cultural and architectural heritage, such as the Qatar Museums Authority's 'Al Turath al Hai' ('living heritage') initiative.\n\nHistorically, paintings were not common in Qatari society. Instead, other art forms such as calligraphy and architecture were preferred. After the oil boom in the mid-20th century, paintings gained popularity. Common themes during this period were related to Islamic and Arabic heritage. Art exhibitions were held under the auspices of the Ministry of Education until 1972. The Ministry of Education integrated art education into the school system and allocated facilities for art workshops.\n\nAs an initiative to develop the local artist base, the ministry began offering scholarships to study art abroad. Jassim Zaini became the first Qatari art student to study abroad on a scholarship in 1962 after he enrolled in the University of Baghdad. Several more artists were sent abroad on art scholarships during the 1960s and 1970s, including Wafika Sultan, Hassan Al Mulla and Yousef Ahmad. The latter became the first artist to receive an M.A. in 1981. Yousef Ahmad was the first artist to hold a solo exhibition in 1977. Under its director Nasser Al-Othman, the Culture and Arts Department inaugurated the country's first art gallery in 1977–78.\n\nYousef Ahmad, Hassan Al Mulla and Muhammad Ali established the country's first art group in 1977, \"The Three Friends Group\". In 1980, the Qatari Fine Arts Society was established with the objective of promoting the works of Qatari artists. That year, an art workshop was opened for women with the aim of providing them with an opportunity to hone their artistic skills. The Qatari Fine Arts Society held their first exhibition in 1981. In December 1982, the country's first art exhibition for females was held.\nFive main art movements emerged in the country by the late 20th century: surrealism, realism, expressionism, abstract art, and calligraphy.\n\nA member of the ruling family, Hassan bin Mohamed bin Ali Al Thani, has been an instrumental figure in developing Qatar's modern art industry since the 1980s. Among his art-related activities was establishing his own museum which doubled as a residency space for Doha-based artists in 1994, and establishing the in 2010 to which he donated his entire art collection, which he had begun assembling in 1986.\n\nWhen a quartet comprising Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Bahrain and Egypt severed all ties with and imposed a blockade of Qatar on 5 June 2017, Qatari artist Ahmed Al-Maadheed created an illustration known as \"Tamim Almajd\", which translates to \"Tamim the Glorious\". A simple black and white sketch of Emir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, beneath of which is the text \"Tamim Almajd\" in the style of Arabic calligraphy, the illustration has become symbolic of Qatari nationalism. The image is now displayed prominently on buildings, in media and in art in Qatar.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55336997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55336997", "title": "Sappho and Alcaeus", "text": "Sappho and Alcaeus\n\nSappho and Alcaeus is an 1881 oil painting by Lawrence Alma-Tadema. It is held by the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore.\n\nThe painting measures . It depicts a concert in the late 7th century BC, with the poet Alcaeus of Mytilene playing the kithara. In the audience is fellow Lesbian poet Sappho, accompanied by several of her female friends. Sappho is paying close attention to the performance, resting her arm on a cushion which bears a laurel wreath, presumably intended for the performer. The painting illustrates a passage by the poet Hermesianax, recorded by Athenaeus in his \"Deipnosophistae\" (\"The Philosophers' Banquet\"), book 13, page 598.\n\nThe location, with tiers of white marble seating, is based on the Theatre of Dionysus in Athens, but Alma-Tadema has replaced the original inscribed names of Athenians with the names of Sappho's friends. In the background, the Aegean Sea can be seen through some trees.\n\nThe painting was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1881, and depicted in William Powell Frith's \"A Private View at the Royal Academy, 1881\", to the far right, being inspected byJohn Everett Millais. It was highly praised by critics: \"Punch\" described it as \"marbellous\". It was acquired by William Thompson Walters of Baltimore, and on his death in 1894 it was inherited by his son Henry Walters, who left it to the Walters Art Museum on his own death in 1931.\n\n"}
{"id": "22565066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22565066", "title": "The Best American Short Stories 2004", "text": "The Best American Short Stories 2004\n\nThe Best American Short Stories 2004, a volume in \"The Best American Short Stories series\", was edited by Katrina Kennison and by guest editor Lorrie Moore.\n\nAmong the other notable writers whose stories were among the \"100 Other Distinguished Stories of 2003\" were Max Apple, Kevin Brockmeier, Dan Chaon, Stephen King, Arthur Miller, Joyce Carol Oates and Joy Williams.\n"}
{"id": "1462927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1462927", "title": "User expectations", "text": "User expectations\n\nUser expectations refers to the consistency that users expect from products. Interaction design is very concerned with this topic. For example, our user expectations for traffic behavior is one of the more consistent ones because it is governed by traffic laws that are enforced. Software, or even worse small consumer electronics, on the other hand, can have widely varying degrees of consistency.\n\nA good rule of thumb or \"design principle\" to use in interaction design is to follow the \"Principle of least astonishment\". In the case of interactive software applications, for example, users form expectations based on their experience with similar kinds of software. Effective software design aims to conform with prevailing norms for aspects of behavior such as the software's user interface and its responsiveness.\n\nA commonly noted sign of poor usability and human factors due to the violation of user expectations is when signs are needed for common things like doors. This was made famous by Donald A. Norman in his seminal book The Psychology of Everyday Things. There is also a website devoted to such Bad Designs .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44208988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44208988", "title": "Visual Focus Depth Art", "text": "Visual Focus Depth Art\n\nVisual focus depth art (VFDA) is a form of mixed media collage that places an emphasis on the use of three-dimensional application to individual creations of single one-of-a-kind art pieces to emphasize individual meaning in the work. It is a derivative of \"assemblage\", \"collage\" and \"decollage\". The concept is similar to the basic mixed-media collage idea of building up various levels of the piece for emphasis. Known in this medium as projections, the artist tries in a variety of ways to create a visual image that causes the viewer to focus on certain areas of the art framework that would ordinarily be overlooked or relegated to the background rather than to randomly layer structure creating a whole image of the work.\n\nWhile the exact origins of VFDA are unknown, the first artwork of its nature began to appear around 2010 in the street art of various cities in Europe, including Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam. This appears to have been a response to the expanding use of computer generation in art to both design and create mixed-media collage works that could be essentially pre-designed and mass-produced. Since that time, various artists have produced series of works-known as ensembles—that are individually unique and limited in scope. Common themes of these ensembles range widely from ideological ideas like bohemianism, libertine and socially relevant matters to historical perspective, such as the interpretation of various time periods and eras.\n\nThe floor/design base of the piece is used to create a theme or story about the subject. Sections of the work are then raised to provide emphasis and act as an accent to substantiate the message. VFDA is usually created in single pieces or via limited series depending upon the artist involved and is also generally confined to canvass or wooden framework. Larger scale pieces, such as architectural interpretations, are generally not considered part of this medium. Each VFDA piece is unique is not duplicated in any way with the exception of limited prints. While some artists offer limited prints of the original artwork, the number offered is very limited in scope.\n\nThe backgrounds used in VFDA range widely from the use of true vintage pieces such as original period sheet music, fractional currency, foreign money or other items that set the time frame for the piece. Each of the items used relate the overall, theme of the art. The background can also be structured in segmented form-through the use of linear script—composed of simply drawn lines with little attempt at pictorial representation, mathematic symbolism—such as the use of angles and formulas and via free-form application—concepts chosen by the artist to represent the underlying theme in the work.\n\nVFDA is based on the unique aspect of every piece being created by the artist. Materials used to emphasize the projections include wooden palates measured to the frame, various forms of corkboard, balsa wood and other materials that are hand-cut or machined by the artist to help raise the projections to the level desired. The use of preformed shapes, three-dimensional printing and advanced computer generation of any kind used to map the work or create the projections is not considered to be part of this art form because the work can be saved, duplicated and even mass-produced.\n"}
{"id": "26345101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26345101", "title": "Vonnegut, Wright &amp; Yeager", "text": "Vonnegut, Wright &amp; Yeager\n\nVonnegut, Wright & Yeager was an architectural firm active in mid-twentieth-century Indiana. The firm was organized in 1946 as a partnership between the surviving partners of three Indiana firms: Kurt Vonnegut Sr. (1884–1957) of Vonnegut, Bohn & Mueller Architects; George Caleb Wright (b. April 25, 1889) of Pierre & Wright; and Ralph Oscar Yeager (b. August 16, 1892) of Miller & Yeager. It was located at 1126 Hume Mansur Building, Indianapolis, Indiana and 402 Opera House Building, Terre Haute, Indiana.\n\nVonnegut, Wright & Yeager was formed in 1946. In 1957, after the death of partner Kurt Vonnegut Sr., George Caleb Wright left the firm to become senior partner in the Indianapolis firm Wright, Porteus & Lowe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9788926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9788926", "title": "Werewere Liking", "text": "Werewere Liking\n\nWerewere Liking (born 1950, Cameroon) is a writer, playwright and performer based in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. She established the Ki-Yi Mbock theatre troupe in 1980 and founded the Ki-Yi village in 1985 for the artistic education of young people.\n\nHer novel \"Elle sera de jaspe et de corail\" is a song-novel recounted by a \"misovire\" (a post-gender being) in writing a journal on nine themes.\n\nShe received a Prince Claus Award in 2000 for her contributions to culture and society, and the Noma Award in 2005 for her book \"La mémoire amputée\".\n\nHer books and plays include:\n\n"}
{"id": "47069543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47069543", "title": "Yves Apollinaire Pede", "text": "Yves Apollinaire Pede\n\nYves Apollinaire Pede (born 1959, in Abomey) is a Beninois Vodou artist. After being commissioned to reproduce reliefs for the Abomey Museum, he made sand paintings of well-known personalities such as Nelson Mandela. He gradually became oriented towards textile art, looking to Haitian and Cuban Vodou artists for inspiration. He is also noted for his large cement sculptures and bas-reliefs, and is stated to have a \"special interest\" in Kulito, a Fon word which literally means \"the one from the path of death\". He is based in Ouidah, the world centre for Vodun art, which has an annual festival.\n"}
{"id": "37317462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37317462", "title": "Z Space", "text": "Z Space\n\nZ Space is a regional theater and performing arts company located in the Mission District of San Francisco, California. Z Space is one of the leading laboratories for developing new voices, new works, and new opportunities in the American theater. In addition to commissioning and producing its own works, Z Space also presents productions created by other organizations. \n\nIt was founded in 1993 by David Dower, as the outgrowth of earlier theatrical productions staged by artists known as the Z Collective, and was known for a time as the Z Space Studio. Dower was succeeded in 2007 by Lisa Steindler, who currently serves as Z Space’s executive artistic director.\n\nIn its first 15 years, Z Space developed and produced artistic works that were staged in a variety of San Francisco Bay Area theaters. Throughout the 90s and early 00s, Z Space worked with such artists as Josh Kornbluth, Anne Galjour, Randall Wong, and Brian Thorstensen. In 2009, Z Space moved into its own full-time facility in San Francisco’s Mission district, situated at 450 Florida Street. The 13,000-square-foot facility originally was constructed in the 1920s as a tooling factory for the American Can Company. During World War II, the building was converted into military use, making airplane parts. The building's interior was transformed into the Project Artaud Theater in 1971. In 2013, Z Space expanded into Z Below (formerly The Traveling Jewish Theater), an 86-seat complement to the 230-seat warehouse above. \n\nZ Space’s performances span a variety of disciplines, including theater, dance, visual art, music and performance art. Through its Z Space New Works program, the organization develops unique works from initial concept to on-stage production; it also provides technical residencies in which artists can make use of the entire facility, including the stage, lights and sound system to test and develop their concepts. \n\nOther signature programs at Z Space include Word for Word, an in-house theater company that transforms works of literature verbatim to the stage, and Youth Arts, Z Space's outreach to schools, which promotes literacy and engages students’ creativity. \n\nIn 2013, Z Space received a three-year grant from Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to sponsor a resident playwright, Peter Sinn Nachtrieb. That grant was renewed in 2016, giving Peter a stable artistic home for another three years. Since Peter’s residency began, Z Space has produced three of his plays, \"The Totalitarians\" in 2014, \"A House Tour of the Infamous Porter Family Mansion with Tour Guide Weston Ludlow Londonderry\" in 2016, and \"The Making of a Great Moment\" in 2017.\n\nZ Space has presented Bay Area premieres of internationally acclaimed performance ensembles The Wooster Group (2015), Elevator Repair Service (2014), Rude Mechs (2015), and Theatre Mitu (2015). Other notable presentations include works by Joe Goode Performance Group, Killing My Lobster, Big Art Group, Mugwumpin, LEVYdance, The Killbanes, piece by piece productions, and The Paul Dresher Ensemble. In 2014, Z Space presented The Bengson's \"Hundred Days\", which they also commissioned, developed, and produced. In 2015 Composers, Inc. presented the premiere of Allen Shearer's opera \"Middlemarch in Spring\" at Z Space.\n\nDuring the past decade, productions originating at Z Space have won national recognition including the Helen Hayes Award and the Kesselring Prize. From 2001 through 2005, 15 productions developed by Z Space earned Critics Circle nominations. In 2005, \"The People’s Temple\" was awarded the Will Glickman Award for “Best New Play.” That work was developed during more than four years at Z Space; it premiered at the Berkeley Repertory Theatre. In 2007, \"American $uicide\", by Mark Jackson, was nominated by the American Theatre Critics Association for the annual ATCA/Steinberg New Play Award, honoring new scripts produced outside New York City. \n\nZ Space's 2017 year garnered the organization title of \"Best Performance Space\" by Best of The Bay (of which they were also awarded for the 2016 year) and \"Best Literary Remix\" by San Francisco Magazine. Also in 2017, \"The Town Hall Affair\" by The Wooster Group presented at Z Space was listed by KQED as part of \"The Best Bay Area Theater of 2017.\" \n\n"}
