{"id": "4748742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4748742", "title": "Acronym Institute for Disarmament Diplomacy", "text": "Acronym Institute for Disarmament Diplomacy\n\nThe Acronym Institute for Disarmament Diplomacy was founded in 1995 by Dr. Rebecca Johnson, senior advisor to the United Nations' \"United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission\" chaired by Dr. Hans Blix from January 2000 to June 2003. It states as its goal \"to promote effective approaches to international security, disarmament and arms control. ... Engaging with governments and civil society, Acronym provides reporting, analysis and strategic thinking on a range of issues relevant to peace and security, with special emphasis on treaties and multilateral initiatives.\"\n\nThe Acronym Institute has published the journal \"Disarmament Diplomacy\" since 1997 on a bi-monthly basis, with an overview of events relating to weapons proliferation and disarmament.\n\nThe Acronym Institute was founded by Dr. Johnson as continuation of her work for \"The Acronym Consortium\" (VERTIC, ISIS, BASIC and Dfax), which had dissolved into its constituent parts in October 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "57693891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57693891", "title": "Athletic–Barcelona clásico", "text": "Athletic–Barcelona clásico\n\nThe Athletic–Barcelona clásico refers to football matches between Athletic Bilbao and FC Barcelona, two clubs competing in Spanish football competitions.\n\nThe two clubs are among the oldest in the country, and have participated in every season of the national championship, La Liga. Owing to this, as well as contesting eight finals of the Copa del Rey (in which they are the two most successful clubs), it is the third most-played football fixture in Spain, after the meetings of each with the third constant member of the league, Real Madrid. Due to this, it has been referred to as a \"Clásico\", the modern Spanish term for a significant and traditional fixture (a \"classic\") which is not a \"derbi\" based on geographical proximity.\n\nThe relationship between Athletic and Barcelona has historically been fairly healthy aside from certain periods when competitiveness became hostility, such as in the early 1980s. By the turn of the 21st century, the rivalry had largely become a historical concept due to the disparity in the fortunes of the clubs and the lack of a local element, but their frequent meetings in matches of importance, including three Copa del Rey finals, restored some relevancy to the fixture.\n\nAthletic Bilbao and Barcelona are both owned by their \"socios\" (members) who elect a president to oversee club affairs. They also place great importance in developing local players through their \"cantera\" (youth systems), and were among the last major clubs to adopt a commercial sponsor logo on their jerseys (Athletic doing so in 2008 and Barcelona three years later).\n\nAs the most successful clubs in their native regions (the Basque Country for Athletic and Catalonia for Barcelona) and seen by many of their supporters as the sporting embodiment of the native population, the clubs have important and similar roles in the national football culture, with Athletic's adherence to a unique 'Basque only' player policy and Barcelona's efforts to become the world's best while maintaining and promoting a distinct Catalan identity exemplifying two diverse approaches to being a sporting symbol of their homelands.\n\nBarcelona in particular have a far more intense rivalry with Real Madrid – perceived to represent the dominant Castile region and the Spanish royal family – sometimes known as the \"Gran Clásico\", it has become simply El Clásico; they also contest a local derby in Greater Barcelona against Espanyol which too has political aspects. Athletic Bilbao's attitude towards Real Madrid is also more frosty than their relationship with Barcelona due to the differences in the political and cultural identity of the clubs, and they have a significant local rivalry in the Basque autonomous region with Real Sociedad.\n\nThe date of the first meeting between the two clubs is a matter of debate. The final of the 1902 Copa de la Coronación was played between Barcelona and Club Biscaya (a combined team of Athletic Club and , which merged the following year); Biscaya won the match 2–1. Athletic regard themselves as the successor to the Biscaya team and the Copa Coronación as the first edition of the Copa del Rey, including it with later wins in their official honours. However, the Spanish Federation gives 1903 as the commencement date for the Copa del Rey, disregarding the previous year's tournament in its records, so it has never been fully established if they regard Biscaya and Athletic as the same club or not. Barcelona's team in the final also included players from Hispania AC, meaning theirs was also something of a combined force rather than a single club entity.\n\nAthletic and Barcelona were both successful in the early years of the national cup: between 1903 and 1920, the Basques won seven \"Copas\" and the Catalans three (including wins for both in the 1910 edition where two competitions were held, both considered official retrospectively), but they did not face each other at any stage of the tournament until their first undisputed meeting in the 1920 Final held in Gijón, which Barcelona won 2–0. In the following edition, Barcelona withdrew in protest after the federation changed the venue of the final to Bilbao, and it was the 'home' club who eventually took the trophy.\n\nRegional qualifying leagues were introduced, and Athletic became the dominant club in the Biscay Championship (from 1913) while Barça were the strongest in the Catalan football championship (its earliest version was held in 1901). In that period, the two clubs introduced measures which led to them becoming important symbols of their respective homelands, Athletic implementing a policy of using only local Basque players in response to being criticised by opponents for selecting too many foreigners, and Barça adopting Catalan as their official language. In that era, matches were played by representative teams from each of the regional leagues, including several fixtures between Catalonia and the Basque Country.\n\nThe teams did not meet again prior to the establishment in 1929 of a national professional league championship, La Liga, which would see them meet regularly and become rivals for the title: Barcelona won the first edition but failed to make much impact thereafter, suffering the humiliation of a 12–1 defeat at the hands of Athletic Bilbao in 1931 (Bata scoring seven in what still ranks as the biggest win in the history of the competition) and also losing the 1932 Copa del Rey Final to the \"Lions\". Athletic were champions four times in the following seven seasons up to the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War in 1936.\nIn broad terms, Catalonia and the Basque Country fought on the losing Republican side in the conflict, and the victorious Nationalist regime soon introduced measures against regional languages and cultures. In 1941, football teams with 'foreign names' and symbols were required to amend them to a Spanish equivalent, thus \"Club de Fútbol Barcelona\" and \"Atlético de Bilbao\" became the official titles of the historic clubs and the Catalan flag was replaced with the Spanish on Barcelona's crest (the short-lived Republic had done the same with Royalist symbols in the previous decade, altering the names of clubs such as Real Madrid and Real Sociedad and removing crowns from their crests). This oppressive centralist atmosphere in society contributed to the clubs becoming even more important to the local populations, the stadium being one of the few places where they could speak their language and express themselves freely. In this regard, the clubs had much in common and meetings between them were akin to an international fixture, with the regional representative teams also having been disbanded.\nIn the domestic league, the performances of Barcelona and Athletic were comparable until the 1960s, with the Basques winning only two titles during the period from 1939 to 1960 compared to seven for the Catalans, but both finishing near the top of the table most years. Athletic won seven cups to Barcelona's six, although the finals between them in 1942 and 1953 both went the way of the \"Blaugrana\". The Barça coach in the latter match, Ferdinand Daučík, soon took over at Athletic, and won trophies with both clubs. \n\nDaučík had moved to Spain at the same time as his son-in-law and the club's star of the period, the Hungarian László Kubala, who was the first of several foreign imports to make an impact (although the vast majority of players would remain Spanish until much later), winning the league several times plus two Inter-Cities Fairs Cups and a Latin Cup, and enduring a narrow defeat in the 1961 European Cup Final; during his stay, the club also opened their massive ambitious Camp Nou stadium, the cost of which would weaken the club economically for many years. Real Madrid had moved to a larger ground a few years earlier, and they too signed talent from Eastern Europe and South America as well as from around Spain which propelled them to further domestic and continental success, with the positive international exposure pleasing the regime.\n\nAthletic had a talented forward line in that era, spearheaded by prolific striker Zarra who set multiple goalscoring records including most goals in a season, most overall league goals, most hat-tricks, most goals by an opposition player against Real Madrid, and most goals in the Athletic vs Barcelona fixture. However, just prior to the introduction of regular continental competitions, he and his peers passed their peak, and from that time on the club were unable to consistently compete with their old foes for honours. They continued to use only Basque players, and chose to redevelop their San Mamés stadium rather than constructing a replacement, with much of the funding sourced from the transfer of their defender Jesús Garay to Barcelona in 1960.\n\nAthletic and Barcelona both took part in the 1976–77 UEFA Cup having won only one league title between them in almost two decades (Barça in 1974), and both eager for glory in Europe. They were drawn together in the quarter-finals; it was the first time Athletic had played another Spanish team in a continental tournament. The two clubs had already played both league fixtures that season, the Catalans winning 3–1 in Bilbao and the Basques claiming a 2–0 victory at the Camp Nou ten days before their UEFA Cup tie. The tie was played in an unusually friendly atmosphere due to the similar regional identity of the two clubs, whose supporters were excited by the prospect of a brighter future for their respective territories after the death of dictator General Franco and the weakening of his regime. By that point, the clubs' original names and identity were restored.\nIn the tie, Athletic held on for a 2–1 lead at San Mamés and led by the same scoreline by half time in the second leg thanks to a brace of away goals from Javier Irureta, requiring Barça to score three more times in the last 45 minutes. They could only manage one, through Johan Cruijff, so the \"Lions \" qualified for the penultimate stage of a European tournament for the first time. They reached the final, but lost to Juventus.\n\nBy the early 1980s, Barcelona were becoming desperate for major success. They had still not won La Liga since 1974, and in addition to Real Madrid and Atlético Madrid who usually had talented squads, Real Sociedad from the Basque city of San Sebastián had assembled a strong team composed entirely of local homegrown talent, who finished above Barça in 1979 and continued to improve, being runners-up the following year before winning back-to-back titles in 1981 and 1982, overtaking Barcelona in the closing stages of the latter campaign. The Catalans hired famous coaches Helenio Herrera and Udo Lattek, but were left unsatisfied even with Copa victories in 1978 and 1981 (after overcoming Athletic in the semi0-finals) followed by UEFA Cup Winners' Cups in 1979 and 1982. They had paid a world record transfer fee to bring Argentina star Diego Maradona to the club, followed in 1983 by his compatriot and mentor César Luis Menotti as head coach.\n\nHowever, besides Real Sociedad (who were weakened when midfielder Perico Alonso moved to Barça after their second title), it was also a strong period for Athletic Bilbao, who developed a group of talented but highly aggressive and physical players under coach Javier Clemente. Athletic took the title in 1983 (their first championship for 27 years) just ahead of Real Madrid, while Barcelona defeated their biggest rivals from the capital in the cup final. It was clear that the following season could be a close affair between the three clubs, with the added elements of a clash in style and personality between Menotti and Clemente, who were not afraid of expressing their opinions to the press, and the pervading feeling in Barcelona that their 1982 title bid had been ruined by a serious knee injury to influential midfielder Bernd Schuster sustained in a challenge from Athletic defender Andoni Goikoetxea.\n\nThe season would be remembered for two of the most notorious incidents in Spanish football history, amidst a backdrop of serious tension in society, much of it due to terrorism committed by Basque separatists ETA. The league schedule paired Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao at Camp Nou in the fourth round of fixtures in September 1983, and the home side were two goals ahead by the interval; early in the second half, Goikoetxea was angered by a hard tackle from Schuster, prompting Maradona to suggest that he calm down, but a short time later, Maradona dribbled into space in midfield and was tackled crudely from behind by Goikoetxea, who appeared to make little attempt to play the ball and snapped Maradona's ankle. Despite the recklessness of the challenge, Goikoetxea was only cautioned. Barcelona went on to win 4–0, but lost Maradona until January 1984. The Athletic bus was stoned as it left the city. Goikoetxea, from then on widely referred to as the \"Butcher of Bilbao\" after the incident became widely publicised, was given an 18-match ban which was then reduced to nine then six, meaning he returned in the November, and his importance to the team was underlined by the fact those were the only league matches he missed all season.\n\nNeither player took part in either leg of the autumn 1983 Supercopa de España between the sides, won 3–2 by Barcelona on aggregate, but both were back in place for the league game at San Mamés in late January, in which Maradona, still recovering from the injury, scored both his team's goals in their 2–1 victory. However, points dropped by the Catalans in other matches meant they were never able to pull ahead of Real Madrid or Athletic, and in one of the tightest finishes in the competition's history, the Basques retained the title by dint of a superior head-to-head record over the \"Merengues\", with both a point ahead of Barcelona in the final table, leading their followers to ponder how many they might have collected with Maradona available and fully fit; they would have only required one to overtake Athletic having won both meetings with them.\n\nA week later, the 1984 Copa del Rey Final brought Athletic and Barcelona together at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium for their fifth meeting of the campaign. In a predictably physical game, Athletic won 1–0 through Endika to clinch the double for the first time since 1956. Upon the final whistle, Maradona (who had been insulted by Clemente in the build-up and was fouled repeatedly during the match, particularly by his marker Iñigo Liceranzu) was goaded by Miguel Sola and reacted by launching a flying kick. Several players from both teams waded in, including Goikoetxea as well as Migueli, Miguel de Andrés, Patxi Salinas, Paco Clos and others, and a chaotic brawl ensued. All the aforementioned were sanctioned, further verbal insults were exchanged by both camps, and Maradona never played for the club again, transferring to Napoli for another world record fee.\n\nThe following campaign brought change for both clubs. At that time, the Supercopa was given automatically to any 'double' winners (rather than meeting the cup runners-up again, as was the case in later eras), thus Athletic were given the 1984 honour and another potentially hostile clash between the sides early in the season was avoided. Barcelona, having replaced Maradona and Menotti with Scottish striker Steve Archibald and English manager Terry Venables, finally won the league title. Athletic reached the cup final again but lost to Atlético Madrid, and they would not reach another for a generation as a gradual decline set in.\n\nThe 1986 Copa semi-finals again saw Athletic and Barcelona drawn together, and the second leg at San Mamés (won 2–1 by Barcelona) saw incidents of objects being thrown by the crowd, a pitch invasion and insults made to the referee by Bilbao staff members, resulting in their stadium being closed for the next fixture, the first time this had occurred; however, the hostile environment and disorder resulted largely from anger at the decisions and behaviour of the officials (who appeared to miss a foul during a Barça goal and failed to award a penalty to the home side) rather than hostility towards the opposition.\n\nA month later, Barcelona made it to the 1986 European Cup Final held on Spanish soil, but unexpectedly lost to Steaua București. They had just confirmed the signing of Athletic's goalkeeper Andoni Zubizarreta who would be an important figure in the years to come. Thereafter, both clubs suffered as Real Madrid, led by 'La Quinta del Buitre', won five championships in a row.\n\nBy the 1990s, the clubs were no longer competing at the same level of performance. Under Johan Cruijff as coach, Barcelona introduced innovative methods to be used at all levels of the club, which would still be in effect decades later. In addition to four successive league titles, they won another Cup Winners' Cup in 1989 then finally achieved their aim of winning the European Cup in 1992 (defeating Sampdoria on both occasions); the \"Dream Team\" built by Cruijff included several Basques, such as Valverde (whose next move was to Bilbao and later coached both clubs), the former Athletic players Alexanko, Zubizarreta and Julio Salinas, and a winger known as Andoni Goikoetxea (a different man from the defender who had injured Maradona). Athletic, who finished above Barcelona only once following their double win – in 1988 – continued to produce some good players, with Julen Guerrero considered the best of the era, but usually had to content themselves with finishing mid-table.\n\nFollowing the 1996 Bosman ruling, the gap widened further; with no limitations on signing players from the European Union, clubs such as Barcelona could and did bring in the best talent from across the continent – their squad in 1999, their centenary season included eight Dutch internationals as well as three Brazilians, an Argentine, a Portuguese and five who had represented Spain. Both clubs competed in the 1998–99 UEFA Champions League group stage after the previous domestic league was won by Barça with Athletic runners-up (in their centenary year), marking their best finish since 1984 which they have not matched since as the league took on an increasingly international profile, becoming the strongest in Europe by the end of the turn of the millennium.\n\nEntering the 21st century, Athletic endured some struggles with relegation while Barcelona also had a relatively disappointing period but then recovered and continued to grow increasingly more rich, popular and successful, attracting several of the world's top players and drawing among the biggest crowds in Europe to their stadium. Under Frank Rijkaard, Barcelona won the Champions League in 2006 while also developing a highly talented group from their Cruijff-inspired youth system who would lead them to even greater success including three more continental titles, led by forward Leo Messi who broke virtually all of Zarra's longstanding records. At international level, the revived Basque and Catalan representative teams (described as State of Origin squads) met four times between 2006 and 2015, with several Barcelona and Athletic players involved each time.\nAmong their many successes were three fairly comfortable Copa del Rey final wins over Athletic Bilbao: 2009 (4–1 in Valencia), 2012 (3–0 in Madrid), and 2015 (3–1 in Barcelona). All the finals included the pre-match Spanish national anthem being booed and whistled by both sets of supporters, which eventually drew fines for the clubs from the Spanish Sports Council in 2015. During the post-match celebrations in both 2009 and 2012, Barça captains Carles Puyol and Xavi endeared themselves to the Athletic fans by parading the Ikurriña (Basque flag) alongside their Catalan Senyera, while another connection between the squads in 2012 was the admiration openly expressed by Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola for the tactical methods of Marcelo Bielsa, his counterpart at Athletic Bilbao. However, some of that goodwill was eroded in 2015 when Neymar indulged in 'showboating' in the closing stages of the match including flicking the ball over his opponent's head, which enraged the Athletic players as they considered it to be unsportsmanlike conduct.\nDue to Barcelona also winning the league title in 2009 and 2015 (as well as the Champions League in both those years to achieve trebles), the subsequent Supercopa finals were also played between the sides; in the first, it was another straightforward win for the \"Blaugrana\" (5–1 on aggregate), but Athletic surprised many with a 4–0 home win in the first leg of the latter tie, eventually securing a 5–1 victory of their own. It was their first trophy of any kind since 1984, having endured a painful defeat to Atlético Madrid in the 2012 UEFA Europa League Final in addition to the losses to Barcelona, and so was celebrated with great enthusiasm by the supporters who crowded the streets of Bilbao city centre in their thousands for an open top bus parade normally reserved for much greater triumphs.\n\nMessi was a scorer in each of the five finals, with his first in the 2015 Copa del Rey considered one of the best ever in the competition. Combined with another three two-legged cup ties – all won by Barcelona – it was one of Europe's most-played fixtures in the decade with 33 individual matches played between 2008–09 and 2017–18.\n\nThe league results demonstrate the consistently wide gulf between the two clubs, with Athletic collecting no points at all from visits to the Camp Nou between 2004 and September 2018, when they finally secured a draw, and only winning twice at San Mamés in the same period. In 2017, Barcelona chose to appoint Ernesto Valverde as manager after four years in charge of Athletic Bilbao, despite his inability to arrest the poor sequence against the \"Blaugrana\".\n\nIn October 2017, a referendum was held in Catalonia on the subject of the region becoming independent from Spain, which the organisers claimed had resulted in the majority voting for independence; the process was declared illegal by the Spanish state both before and after it was held, with widespread disorder on polling day including violence by security forces against civilians in the city of Barcelona; in the midst of this, FC Barcelona took the decision to close their stadium for a league fixture scheduled for the same day after a request to postpone it was rejected by the LFP – the match against Las Palmas was played behind closed doors.\n\nMany of Barcelona's supporters within Catalonia, and several members of the club's hierarchy, are in favour of the region becoming independent from Spain, with banners and other slogans to this effect frequently seen at matches. Their visit to Bilbao at the end of that month was one of the few occasions when they were not met with open hostility from opposition fans for their perceived role as the club of the independence movement.\n\nWere Catalonia to gain independence, the consequence for its clubs could be expulsion from the Spanish system, as stated on more than one occasion by the league's president Javier Tebas, potentially leading to Barcelona and Espanyol competing in a 'Catalan League' alongside very small clubs from the current third and fourth Spanish tiers. FIFA did not comment on the \"potential future scenario\".\n\nSimilarly, Basque independence is an issue which continues to occupy the political scene in that region, with nationalist parties consistently receiving high percentages in elections. As with Barcelona, independence is a concept which is favoured by many of the Athletic Bilbao supporters in a wider context, but its implementation could result in their club being the largest in a hypothetical 'Basque League' with only a small number of professional teams, as well as bringing to an end their proud record of longevity competing in the Spanish league.\n\nRelegation (which has not concerned Barcelona for many years) is the other, more straightforward, issue for Athletic which could end that sequence. The club's poor performance in the 2017–18 La Liga recalled more serious concerns over losing their league place a decade earlier. Due to so few eligible players being available under the limitations of their policy, they cannot simply buy their way out of trouble in a bad run of form. Previous surveys with supporters indicated the vast majority would rather see the team relegated than abandon their self-imposed restrictions on players.\n\n13 goals:\n12 goals:\n9 goals:\n8 goals:\n\n11 goal margin:\n7 goal margin:\n6 goal margin:\n5 goal margin:\n\nOver their long histories, only fifteen players have played for both clubs in \"La Liga\" (others did so in the years prior to its introduction, including Félix Sesúmaga):\n\n\nFour coaches have been at the helm of both clubs:\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "28159114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28159114", "title": "Bavarian Senate", "text": "Bavarian Senate\n\nThe Bavarian Senate (German \"Bayerischer Senat\") was the corporative upper chamber of Bavaria's parliamentary system from 1946 to 1999, when it was abolished by a popular vote (referendum) changing the constitution of this State of the German federation.\n\nThe 60 members of the Senate had to be 40 years of age and could not be a member of the Landtag (the other and more important chamber of the Bavarian parliament). Every other year, a third of the Senate's members would be elected by corporations representing social, economic, municipal or cultural groups or appointed by religious denominations for a term of six years. The number of seats representing each group was fixed by the constitution of Bavaria:\n\n\nInternationally, the Senate's composition was similar to the Vocational panels in the Irish senate. It also bore remnants of council-democratic ideas.\n\nThe Senate's main role was consulting other state institutions and delivering legal opinion. It also had the power to delay state legislation passed by the Landtag within a month (one week for urgent acts). However, the Landtag could overturn the veto by a simple majority, the same majority required to pass a law in the first place.\n\nIn the 1990s, public opinion in Germany turned towards leaner government. The Senate, due to being essentially powerless, was regarded by many as an unnecessary expenditure.\n\nIn June 1997, a popular initiative petition sponsored by the Ecological Democratic Party gained 927,047 signatures (10.5% of those entitled to vote). In the following referendum on 8 February 1998, which yielded a turnout of 39.9%, a majority of 69.2% voted for the law amending the State Constitution to abolish the Senate. A counter-proposal by the ruling Christian Social Union, which would have changed the composition of the Senate, only received 23.6%.\n\nOn 1 January 2000, the law abolishing the Senate came into effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10917174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10917174", "title": "Cannabis Party (Spain)", "text": "Cannabis Party (Spain)\n\nThe Partido Cannabis por la Legalización y la Normalización (PCLYN; ) was formed at the end of 2003 in Valencia, Spain, although its first Congress was held in January 2004. At the beginning it was promoted by a Spanish association called Cannabis Culture Association (Asociación de la Cultura Cannábica also called \"La Barraca de María\"), the Cannabis internet cafe association, A.I.C.C. (Asociación de Internautas Cannabis Café -Association of Cannabis Caffe Internauters), and the Federation of Cannabis Associations (F.A.C. Federación de Asociaciones Cannábicas - Federation of associations) among others.\n\nIn its early days the party suffered a split, with those belonging to the AICC resigning from the party in February 2004. Other members became dissatisfied with the leadership of the party and its internal electoral processes following the partys first general meeting in May 2003. The splits caused logistical problems for the party which also suffered external attacks such as a denial of service attack on their web host on 16 May 2004. Nonetheless the party continued its activities, holding meetings with groups such as Republican Left (ERPV) or the Confederation of the Greens and with Rastafari members. Subsequently, the party was reformed and reorganised.\n\nIn October 2006, the original members of the party announced its reformation. They were led by the afiliated nº155 called deLambsy, a surrealist artist who had been a member of the party since July 2004 when he was studying Arts in Valencia.\n\n\n- (Valladolid): 1,836 votes. Senate: 7,938 votes.\n\n- (Alicante): 5,446 votes. Senate: 13,240 votes.\n\n- (Valencia): 9,563 votes. Senate: 35,278 votes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92855", "title": "Chen Duxiu", "text": "Chen Duxiu\n\nChen Duxiu (; October 8, 1879 – May 27, 1942) was a Chinese revolutionary socialist, educator, philosopher, and author, who co-founded the Chinese Communist Party (with Li Dazhao) in 1921, serving from 1921 to 1927 as its first General Secretary. Chen was a leading figure in the Xinhai Revolution that overthrew the Qing dynasty and the May Fourth Movement for scientific and democratic developments in early Republic of China. Expelled from the Communist Party in 1929, he was for a time the leader of China's small Trotskyist movement.\n\nChen's ancestral home was in Anqing, Anhui, where he established the influential vernacular Chinese periodical \"New Youth (Xin Qingnian)\".\n\n\nChen Duxiu was born in the city of Anqing, in Anhui province. He was born to a wealthy family of officials, the youngest of four children. In his youth, he was described as volatile, emotional, intuitive, non-intellectual, and a defender of the underdog. His father died when Chen was two years old, and he was raised primarily by his grandfather; and, later, by his older brother.\n\nChen was given a traditional Confucian education by his grandfather, several private tutors, and his elder brother. A thorough knowledge of Confucian literary and philosophical works was the pre-requisites for civil service in Imperial China. Chen was an exceptional student, but his poor experiences taking the Confucian civil service exams resulted in a lifelong tendency to advocate unconventional beliefs and to criticize traditional ideas.\n\nChen took and passed the county-level imperial examination (乡试/鄉試) in 1896, and succeeded in the provincial-level examination (省试/省試) the following year. He later wrote a sardonic memoir in which he reminisced about the filthy conditions, the dishonesty, and the incompetence that he observed when taking the official examinations. 1898, he passed the entrance exam and became a student of Qiushi Academy (currently Zhejiang University) in Hangzhou, where he studied French, English, and naval architecture. He moved to Nanjing in 1902, after he was reported to have given speeches attacking the Qing government, and then to Japan the same year under a scholarship from the government to study at the Tokyo Shimbu Gakko, a military preparatory academy. It was in Japan where Chen became influenced by socialism and the growing Chinese dissident movement. While studying in Japan, Chen helped to found two radical political parties, but refused to join Sun Yat-sen's Tongmenghui Revolutionary Alliance, which he regarded as narrowly racist. In 1908, he accepted a teaching position at the Army Elementary School in Hangzhou.\n\nFrom the late 19th century through the early the 20th century, the Qing Dynasty had suffered a series of military defeats against the colonial foreign powers, most recently in the First Sino-Japanese War (1894-1895) and the war against the Alliance of Eight Nations that invaded China in reaction to the 1901 Boxer Rebellion. At the same time, widespread corruption within the Qing bureaucracy had left the empire in a state of total economic paralysis. Against this background Chen Duxiu became an increasingly influential activist in the revolutionary movement against both foreign imperialism and the Qing government itself.\n\nInfluenced by his time in Japan, Chen founded the Anhui Patriotic Association in 1903 and the Yuewang Hui in 1905. He was an outspoken writer and political leader by the time of the Wuchang Uprising of 1911, which started the Xinhai Revolution and led to the collapse of the Qing Dynasty. In 1912, Chen became secretary general to the new military governor of Anhui, while also serving as the dean of a local high school. However, Chen fled to Japan again in 1913 following the short-lived \"Second Revolution\" against Yuan Shikai, but returned to China soon afterwards.\n\nIn 1915, Chen founded the journal \"Youth\" in Shanghai. In 1916 the name was changed to \"New Youth.\" It quickly became the most popular and widely distributed journal in China. This journal published articles attacking conservative Chinese morality and promoting individualism. The journal was highly critical of Confucianism, and carried articles promoting the adoption of a Western moral system valuing human rights, democracy, and science, which he believed Confucianism opposed. Chen used the journal to promote vernacular writing at the expense of traditional Confucian writing conventions.\n\nChen joined the faculty of Peking University in 1917 as the university's dean, at the invitation of Cai Yuanpei, who also paid for moving Chen's journal to Beijing. A Marxist study group at the university, led by Li Dazhao, attracted his attention in 1919. At the time, \"New Youth\" was highly popular, and Chen decided to run a special edition on Marxism with Li Dazhao as the edition's general editor. The edition of this magazine was the most detailed analysis of Marxism then published in China, and achieved wide readership due to the journal's popularity. Chen's decision to run this edition, and his activities in the May Fourth Movement that same year, motivated conservative opponents within the university to force his resignation in the fall of 1919. Around the time that he was forced out of Peking University, he was jailed for three months for distributing literature that Peking authorities considered inflammatory, demanding that all pro-Japanese ministers resign, and that the government guarantee freedom of speech and assembly. After his release, Chen moved to Shanghai and became more interested in Marxism and the promotion of rapid social change. His settlement in the French Concession. allowed him to pursue his intellectual and scholarly interests free from official persecution.\n\nIn 1921, Chen Duxiu, Li Dazhao and other prominent revolutionary leaders founded the Communist Party of China (CPC). It has been generally asserted that Chen, Li and the other Chinese radicals of the time (including future chairman Mao Zedong) formed the CPC out of diligent study of Marxist theories, inspired by the Russian Revolution of 1917. Many of the prominent members of the party in 1920 had a very poor understanding of Marxist theory. Over time, the more prominent revolutionaries attracted to the early Chinese Communist Party eventually adopted a more orthodox interpretation of Communism, and were organized through the influence of a Comintern advisor, Grigori Voitinsky, who made a tour of China during 1920-21.\n\nAt the First Congress of the Communist Party in Shanghai, Chen was elected (in absentia) as the party's first General Secretary; and, with the assistance of Li Dazhao, he developed what would become a crucial cooperative relationship with the International Communist Movement, the Comintern. This cooperation with the Comintern would later prove to be a problem for the fledgling CPC over the next decade, as aggressive foreign Comintern advisors would try to force policy according to the wishes of Moscow and against the will of many prominent CPC leaders, often for the national interest of the USSR. By 1922, the size of the entire Communist Party in China was only about 200 members, not counting those overseas. Chen remained as the undisputed leader of the Chinese Communist Party until 1927, and was often referred to as \"China's Lenin\" during this period.\n\nSoon after the founding of the Chinese Communist Party, in 1921, Chen accepted an invitation from Chen Jiongming to serve on the education board in Guangzhou in the aftermath of the June 16 Incident, but this position dissolved when Guangzhou was recaptured by the Kuomintang. At the direction of the Comintern, Chen and the Chinese Communists formed an alliance with Sun Yat-sen and the Kuomintang (KMT or Nationalist Party) in 1922. Although Chen was not convinced of the utility of collaborating with the Kuomintang, he reluctantly carried out the Comintern's orders to do so. Pursuing collaboration with the Kuomintang, he was elected into that party's Central Committee in January, 1924.\n\nIn 1927, he and other high-ranking Communists, including Mao Zedong and Mikhail Borodin, collaborated closely with Wang Jingwei's Nationalist government in Wuhan, convincing Wang's regime to adopt various proto-Communist policies. The Wuhan government's subsequent land reform policies were considered provocative enough to influence various KMT-aligned generals to attack Wang's regime, suppressing it. Chen was forced to resign as General Secretary in 1927, due to his public dissatisfaction with the Comintern order to disarm during the April 12 Incident, which had led to the deaths of thousands of Communists - now known as the Shanghai massacre of 1927, and because of his disagreement with the Comintern's new focus on peasant rebellions.\n\nChen came into conflict with Mao Zedong in 1925 over Mao's essay \"An Analysis of Classes in Chinese Society\". Mao, promoted by Stalin against the old leadership of the party from the time of Lenin, opposed Chen's analyses of China. While Chen believed that the focus of revolutionary struggle in China should primarily concern the workers, Mao had started to theorize about the primacy of the peasants. According to Han Suyin in \"Mortal Flower\", Chen \"opposed the opinions expressed [in Mao's analysis], denied that a radical land policy and the vigorous organization of the rural areas under the Communist party was necessary, and refused the publication of the essay in the central executive organs of publicity.\"\n\nAlthough he recognized the value of Mao's interpretation of Marxism in inciting the Chinese peasants and labourers to revolution, Chen opposed Mao's rejection of the strong role of the bourgeoisie that Chen had hoped to achieve. During the last years of his life, Chen denounced Stalin's dictatorship, and held that various democratic institutions, including independent judiciaries, opposition parties, a free press, and free elections, were important and valuable. Because of Chen's opposition to Mao's interpretation of Communism, Mao believed that Chen was incapable of providing a robust historical materialist analysis of China. This dispute would eventually lead to the end of Chen and Mao's friendship and political association.\n\nAfter the collaboration between the Communist Party and the KMT fell apart in 1927, the Comintern blamed Chen, and systematically removed him from all positions of leadership. In November 1929, he was expelled. Afterwards, Chen became associated with the International Left Opposition of Leon Trotsky. Like Chen, Trotsky opposed many of the policies of the Comintern, and publicly criticized the Comintern's effort to collaborate with the Nationalists. Chen eventually became the voice of the Trotskyists in China, attempting to regain support and influence within the party, but failed. Chen continued to oppose measures like \"New Democracy\" and the \"Bloc of Four Classes\" advocated by Mao Zedong.\n\nIn 1932, Chen was arrested by the government of the Shanghai International Settlement, where he had been living since 1927, and extradited to Nanjing. Chen was then tried and sentenced to fifteen years in prison by the Nationalist government. Chen was released on parole in 1937, after the outbreak of the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\nChen was one of the few early leaders of the Communist party to survive the turmoil of the 1930s, but he was never able to regain any influence within the party he had founded. For the last decade of his life, he faded into obscurity. \nAt the time that he was released, both the supporters of Chen and the pro-Comintern leaders who opposed him had either been killed or had fallen out of favor with the Communist membership. The Chinese Communist Party only managed to survive the purges by fleeing to the northern frontier in the Long March of 1934-5, during which Mao Zedong emerged as leader. If only for sheer survival, the Communists had to flee the cities where China's fledgling industrial working class was concentrated, seek refuge in remote rural areas, and there mobilize the support of peasants; this was naturally taken as a vindication of Mao's position in his debate with Chen. Mao and this new generation of Communists would lead the party in China for the next fifty years.\n\nOn August 23rd Chen was released from prison and refused multiple offers of positions from the Guomindang saying that despite the importance of the war effort \"Chiang Kai-shek killed many of my comrades he also killed my two sons, he and I are absolutely irreconcilable\". In August 1937, Chen met with the heads of the Chinese Communist Party Office in Nanjing. This led to a concerted attempt by Luo Han and Ye Jianying to allow Chen to return to the Party. In September Mao responded saying that Chen could rejoin the party if he agreed to publicly renounce Trotskyism and express support for the United Front against Japan. Chen responded by letter to the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party that he agreed with its line of resistance but would not renounce Trotskyism. This was the end of the last serious attempt to rejoin the CCP.\n\nChen then travelled from place to place until the summer of 1938, when he arrived at the wartime capital of Chongqing and took a position teaching at a junior high school. In poor health and with few remaining friends, Chen Duxiu later retired to Jiangjin, a small town west of Chongqing, where he died in 1942 at the age of 62. Today, he is buried at his birthplace of Anqing.\n\nAfter the founding of the PRC in 1949, Chen's example was used to warn Communist Party members not to deviate from party orthodoxy. In the Hundred Flowers Campaign, the example of Chen in collaborating with Wang Jingwei's Wuhan government, leading to the ostracism of his peers and the failure of Communist policies at the time, was used by Peng Zhen as a warning never to \"forgive\" anti-Maoists. After Mao died in 1976, Hua Guofeng gave a speech praising Mao's suppression of \"Right and 'Left' Opportunist lines of the Party\" as one of the late Chairman's greatest achievements: Chen was the first person to be named as being correctly suppressed; Deng Xiaoping was the last.\n\nIn 1951 Hu Qiaomu's \"Thirty Years of the Chinese Communist Party\" was published and deemed by the Party to be its authoritative history. In it Chen was denounced as: 1) Bourgeois democracy opportunist 2) Right opportunist 3) Right capitulationist 4) Factionalist 5) anti-Soviet 6) anti-Comintern 7) Anti-Party 8) Counter-revolutionary 9) Traitor to China and 10) Turncoat. In 1956 Mao Zedong said that Chen represented the gravest of all of the Right deviations in the party's history to that time. Chen's contributions to the Party have subsequently been reassessed, however. Hong Kong historian Tang Baolin called Hu's verdict on Chen the greatest miscarriage of justice in the Party's history and although his reassessment of Chen has not been officially endorsed by the Party, it was published in 2009 by the Chinese Literature and History Press which is run by the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.\n\nChen felt that his articles should reflect the needs of society. He believed that the progress of society could not be achieved without those who accurately report social weaknesses and sicknesses.\n\nChen's articles were always expressive. He criticized the traditional Chinese officials as corrupt and guilty of other wrongdoings. He was under constant attack from conservatives in China, and had to flee to Japan four times. In China, he spent much of his life in the French Concession and the Shanghai International Settlement in order to pursue his writing and scholarly activities free from official harassment.\n\nChen's articles strove to attract publicity, and often arouse discussion by using hyperbole. He emphasized his sadness about the backwardness and corruption in China so that people suffering would be willing to send him their opinions. In \"New Youth\", he wrote various articles using pseudonyms to form \"discussions\", in order to arouse public interest.\n\nChen's publications emphasized the responses from their audience. In \"New Youth\" there were forums and citizens' columns. On average, there were 6 letters from the public in each issue. Whether in praise or strong opposition, Chen encouraged all to write. He also thought that teamwork was very important in journalism, and consequently asked for help from many talented authors and journalists, including Hu Shih and Lu Xun.\n\nOn March 31, 1904, Chen founded \"Anhui Suhua Bao\", a newspaper that he established with Fang Zhiwu and Wu Shou in Tokyo to promote revolutionary ideas using vernacular Chinese, which was simple to understand and easy for the general public to read. While Chen was the chief secretary of the newspaper, its circulation increased from only a thousand copies to more than three times that figure in less than half a year, becoming one of the most popular vernacular Chinese newspapers in print at that time. During 1904 and 1905, a total of twenty-three issues were published. Each issue had 40 pages - about 15,000 words. However, due to political pressures, the paper was barred from publishing in 1905.\n\nChen had three main objectives in publishing \"Anhui Suhua Bao\": to let his countrymen in Anhui keep abreast of the politics of the Qing Dynasty; to spread knowledge to the paper's readers through vernacular Chinese; and, to promote revolutionary ideas to the public. Chen believed that most Chinese believed that the importance of the family was greater than that of the state, and that this limited their interest in political events. He also found Chinese people in general to be excessively superstitious. Chen urged Chinese people to participate in politics through the publication of \"Anhui Suhua Bao\". After its sixteenth issue, the newspaper added an extra 16 columns; the most popular were on military events, Chinese philosophy, hygiene, and astronomy. Almost all of these additional topics were written by Chen. His pen-name was San'ai (三爱/三愛). At least 50 articles were published under this name.\n\nIn early 1914, Chen went to Japan, where he worked as an editor and writer in the \"Tokyo Jiayin Magazine\", which was published by Zhang Shizhao. Chen once wrote an article entitled \"Self Consciousness on Patriotism\" (爱国心与自觉/愛國心與自覺) which conveyed a strong sense of patriotism and encouraged people to fight for their freedom. It promoted the idea that those who love their country should spare no pains to protect it, and should fight for the rights of its citizens. This group of people should work together towards the same goal harmoniously. The article was threatening to Yuan Shikai's government, as it tried to arouse the self-consciousness of the Chinese people. This preliminary magazine was released for 10 issues in total, before it was prevented from publishing. The magazine was resumed in 1925 in Beijing with the new name \"Tokyo Jiayin Weekly\".\n\nIn 1915, Chen started an influential monthly periodical in the French Concession of Shanghai, \"The Youth Magazine\" (青年杂志/青年雜誌), which was later renamed \"New Youth (Xin Qingnian)\" (新青年, literally \"New Youth\"). It became one of the most influential magazines among the students who participated in the May Fourth Movement. Chen was the chief editor of this periodical. It was published by Qunyi shushe, and ended publication in 1926. The magazine mainly advocated the use of vernacular language, socialism, and Marxism, and was strongly against feudalism.\n\nIn 1917, Chen became a lecturer of Chinese Literature, and a Dean of Peking University. Having the approval from the Cai Yuanpei, the Chancellor of the Peking University, Chen collected the writings of the students which he appreciated most, which especially included Li Dazhao, Hu Shih, Lu Xun and Qian Yuan. In order to expand the editorial department, \"New Youth\" was moved to Beijing at this time, and in February 1917, Chen used \"New Youth\" to promote science, democracy and modern literature, and to discourage the study of paleography and classical Chinese literature. The magazine began to advocate the use of the scientific method and Logical arguments towards the achievement of political, economic, social, ethical, and democratic goals.\n\n\"New Youth\" focused on different concerns during various phases of its development. From 1915 to 1918 it opposed Chinese conservatism (especially conservatism associated with Confucianism) and promoted the development of democracy. During this phase, it became influential among the New Culture Movement. From 1919 to 1921, until the formation of the Chinese Communist Party, it focused on promoting socialism, and Marxism. From 1921 to 1926, it published and disseminated the prevailing views of the members of the Communist Party.\n\nThe Shanghai local government banned the sale of a publication called \"\"Guomin Ribao\" (国民日报/國民日報) on December 1, 1903. After this, Chen twice planned to found a paper called \"Aiguo Xinbao\"\" but failed because of pressure from different groups. Chen continued to express his discontent towards the government in his later publications. When \"Anhui Suhua Bao\" was published on March 31, 1904, Chen was responsible for all editing and distribution.\n\nOn November 27, 1918, Chen started another magazine, the \"Weekly Review\" (每周评论/每週評論) with Li Dazhao in order to criticize the politics of his time in a more direct way and to promote democracy, science, and modern literature. Chen also edited \"Tokyo Jiayin Magazine\" (甲寅杂志/甲寅雜誌) and \"Science Magazine\" (科学杂志/科學雜誌). Later, he became the Editor-in-Chief of the newspapers \"Minli Bao\" (民立报/民立報) and \"Shenzhou Daily\" (神州日报/神州日報).\n\nFrom 1908 to 1910, two students at Peking University, Deng Zhongxia and Xu Deheng, founded the \"Guomin\" magazine and invited Li Dazhao to be a consultant for the magazine. From 1912 to 1913, Chen, with the assistance of Luo Jialun and Fu Sinian, published a paper named \"Xinchao She\".\n\nChen set a precedent for future writers via the intentionally controversial nature of his publications. He insisted on telling the truth to the Chinese people and strengthening the Chinese media for later generations. By publishing newspapers and magazines concerning political issues, Chen provided a channel for the general public to express their ideas or discontent towards the existing government. Chen believed that the purpose of mass media was to reveal the truth. At a young age, Chen had already established his first periodical, Guomin Ribao, in which he criticized many social and political problems evident in the late Qing Dynasty. With a view to the things mentioned above, his contribution was said to be influential to journalism as a whole. Chen's writing brought the standards of Chinese journalism closer to those of other, more liberal societies of his time.\n\nIn 1918, \"New Youth\" published contemporary poetry by Hu Shih and Liu Bannong, written in vernacular Chinese, becoming one of the first publications in China to encourage poetry in vernacular Chinese. Eventually, every article in \"New Youth\" was written in vernacular Chinese. \"New Youth\" was one of the first publications in China to adopt and use punctuations marks, and popularized their use through its popularity and wide readership.\n\nGregor Benton compiled and translated into English the last of Chen Duxiu's writings, publishing them under the title \"Chen Duxiu's last articles and letters, 1937-1942\".\n\nIn the second edition of \"New Youth,\" Chen prepared to publish Cai Yuanpei's speech, the \"Speech on Freedom of Religion\" (蔡元培先生在信教自由会之演说/蔡元培先生在信教自由會之演說), along with an editorial interpreting its meaning and significance. Before its appearance in \"New Youth\", Cai criticized Chen for misinterpreting this speech. Chen later admitted that \"the publication of my speech in \"New Youth\" included a number of mistakes.\" Fortunately, Cai did not become angry with Chen and the publication was then amended before publishing.\n\nThis crisis was about the political stand of \"New Youth\". Hu Shih insisted that \"New Youth\" should be politically neutral and the publication should be concerned with Chinese philosophy. Chen attacked his rationale by publishing \"Talking Politics\" (谈政治/談政治) in the 8th edition. Because Chen was invited by Chen Jiongming to be the Education officer in Guangzhou in mid-December 1920, he decided to assign the publication to Mao Dun, who belonged to the Shanghai Communist Party.\n\nHu Shih was dissatisfied with this responsibility and their friendship and professional relationship ended. Later, Chen wrote to Hu Shih about his dissatisfaction with Hu's intimacy with many conservative faculty members of Peking University. Especially troubling to Chen was Hu's relationship with Liang Qichao, a supporter of the Duan Qirui government and their anti-new wave ideology, which made Chen greatly dissatisfied.\n\nChen suggested six guiding principles in \"New Youth\" with an article called \"Warning the youth\" (敬告青年). This article was aimed at removing the old beliefs of Confucianism. \"Warning the Youth\" promoted six values:\n\n\n\"New Youth\" was one of the most influential magazines in early modern Chinese history. Chen introduced many new ideas into popular Chinese culture, including individualism, democracy, humanism, and the use of the scientific method, and he advocated the abandonment of Confucianism for the adoption Communism.\n\nSeen in this light, \"New Youth\" found itself in a position to provide an alternative intellectual influence for many young people. Under the banners of democracy and science, traditional Confucian ethics became the target of attack from \"New Youth\". In its first issue, Chen called for young generation to struggle against Confucianism by \"theories of literary revolution\" (文学革命论/文學革命論).\n\nTo Chen, Confucianism was to be rooted out because:\n\n\nChen called for the destruction of tradition, and his attacks on traditionalism gave new options to the youth of his time. New Youth was a major influence within the May Fourth Movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1302833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1302833", "title": "Committee of 100 (United Kingdom)", "text": "Committee of 100 (United Kingdom)\n\nThe Committee of 100 was a British anti-war group. It was set up in 1960 with a hundred public signatories by Bertrand Russell, Ralph Schoenman and Reverend Michael Scott and others. Its supporters used mass nonviolent resistance and civil disobedience to achieve their aims.\n\nThe idea of a mass civil disobedience campaign against nuclear weapons emerged early in 1960 in discussions between Ralph Schoenman (an activist in the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND)), and Hugh Brock, April Carter (both of the Direct Action Committee against nuclear war), Ralph Miliband, Alan Lovell and Stuart Hall. Schoenman approached Bertrand Russell, the president of CND, with the idea. Russell resigned from the presidency of CND in order to form the Committee of 100, which was launched at a meeting in London on 22 October 1960 with a hundred signatures. Russell was elected as president and Michael Randle of the Direct Action Committee was appointed secretary.\n\nRussell explained his reasons for setting up the Committee of 100 in an article in the \"New Statesman\" in February 1961:\n\nMany in the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, including some of its founders, supported the Committee of 100's campaign of civil disobedience and in its first year it received more in donations than CND had received in its first year. Several of the early CND's activists, including some members of its executive committee, had been supporters of the Direct Action Committee and in 1958 CND had cautiously accepted direct action as a possible method of campaigning; but, largely under the influence of Canon John Collins, the CND chairman, the CND leadership opposed any sort of unlawful protest, and the Committee of 100 was created as a separate organisation partly for that reason and partly because of personal animosity between Collins and Russell. It has been suggested that this separation weakened the campaign against nuclear weapons.\n\nThe Committee's campaign tactic was to organise sit-down demonstrations, which were not to be undertaken without at least 2,000 volunteers pledging to take part. Many eminent people participated in the sit-downs but few of the 100 signatories took part in the Committee's activities. Demonstrators were required to adopt a discipline of non-violence. In a briefing document the Committee of 100 said, \"We ask you not to shout slogans and to avoid provocation of any sort. The demonstrations must be carried out in a quiet, orderly way. Although we want massive support for these demonstrations, we ask you to come only if you are willing to accept this non-violent discipline.\" Demonstrators were recommended to remain limp if arrested and to refuse to co-operate in any way until inside the police station.\n\nAt first, the Committee of 100 differed from CND only in its methods, and they had the same objectives. Within the Committee, however, there were different ideas about civil disobedience, direct action and non-violence. Bertrand Russell saw mass civil disobedience merely as a way of getting publicity for the unilateralist cause. Those from the Direct Action Committee were absolute pacifists (some of them Christians) who followed Gandhi, and they regarded direct action as a way of creating a non-violent society. Ralph Schoenman and others, including the anarchists who later led the organisation, saw direct action as a sort of insurrection that could force the state to give up nuclear weapons. These factions argued among themselves about whether non-violence was a matter of principle or just a tactic and whether the Committee should limit itself to demonstrations or adopt a more thoroughgoing anarchist programme. Nicolas Walter, a prominent member of the Committee, said later that it had been an anarchist organisation from its inception and that the hundred signatories were, in effect, a front.\n\nThe Committee's first act of civil disobedience on 18 February 1961 was a sit-down demonstration at the Ministry of Defence in Whitehall, London, to coincide with the expected arrival of on the River Clyde. (Picture) Between 1,000 and 6,000 people took part. Somewhat to the surprise of the Committee, there were no arrests. At the next sit-down demonstration, on 29 April in Parliament Square, the police arrested 826 people. There were also marches and sit-downs against nuclear testing and demonstrations at the US and Soviet embassies in London and at the Polaris submarine base.\n\nOn 17 September, Battle of Britain Day, supporters blocked the pierheads at Holy Loch and the approaches to Trafalgar Square. (Picture) The September demonstration is regarded as the high-water mark of the Committee of 100. A week before the demonstration, the hundred committee members were summoned to court without charge under the Justices of the Peace Act of 1361 because they \"incited members of the public to commit breaches of the peace\" and were likely to continue to do so. The court bound them to a promise of good behaviour for twelve months; thirty-two, including Bertrand Russell, then aged 89, refused and chose to go to prison instead. It is estimated that 12,000 to 15,000 attended the demonstration despite the invocation of the Public Order Act, which effectively made it illegal to be in the vicinity of central London that day. Several thousand sat down and there were 1,314 arrests, but no violence from demonstrators despite allegations of police brutality.\n\nThe success of the September demonstration encouraged the Committee to move from symbolic sit-down demonstrations in London to mass direct action at the places where nuclear weapons would be deployed, and they planned simultaneous demonstrations on 9 December to walk on to air force bases at Wethersfield, Ruislip, Brize Norton, Cardiff to sit on the runways and to prevent planes from taking off, and street sit-downs in Bristol, Manchester and York. By this time the authorities had begun to take the Committee of 100 more seriously. The official response had escalated from prosecution for incitement to breach of the peace to prosecution for the much more serious offences of conspiracy and incitement to breach the Official Secrets Act. Six organisers, the \"Wethersfield Six\", were charged with these offences and five later imprisoned for eighteen months: Ian Dixon, Terry Chandler, Trevor Hatton, Michael Randle, Pat Pottle; and the sixth, Helen Allegranza, to twelve months. (Picture) Bertrand Russell said that he was equally responsible, but the authorities ignored him and concentrated on the six young, unknown Committee of 100 officers. 3,000 military and civilian police were mobilised at Wethersfield. 5,000 demonstrated there and 850 were arrested. The Wethersfield demonstration was regarded by many as a failure and it was the Committee's last act of large-scale civil disobedience. There were recriminations within the Committee, one internal memorandum saying that its policies had turned it into \"a public spectacle, a group isolated from the general body of public opinion and feeling.\" Herbert Read resigned from the Committee, saying that the action was \"strategically foolish\". The Committee was weakened by the imprisonment of its officers.\n\nThe force used by the police at sit-down demonstrations surprised many of the demonstrators, which, with the Committee's insistence on nonviolence and the use of pre-emptive arrests for conspiracy, discouraged many, and support dwindled. The Committee's plan to \"fill the jails\" by means of mass civil disobedience, and thus compel the government to respond to their demands, was frustrated by the authorities imprisoning a few important members and ignoring the rest. The harsh sentences on the Wethersfield Six \"brought home to the Committee its inadequacy when faced with the might of the State,\" and some of the Committee's leaders were not willing to \"fill the jails\", mounting strenuous appeals against conviction or, in the case of Pat Pottle, going on the run.\n\nBy 1962, half of the original 100 signatories had resigned and had been replaced. The Committee was in debt and had to face the failure of its mass civil-disobedience campaign. It was dissolved and the campaign was decentralized, thirteen regional committees, each with a hundred members, becoming responsible for organizing demonstrations, with a co-ordinating National Committee. Of the regional committees, the London Committee of 100 was the most active and influential. A national magazine was launched by the London Committee in April 1963, published under the name \"Resistance\" from January 1964. Like CND, the Committee of 100 had begun with a self-appointed and unelected leadership, and, like CND, it faced pressure for greater participation by supporters. This re-organisation was intended to involve more people in decision making and to spread demonstrations throughout the country and had been anticipated in the creation of a number of subgroups in December 1961. Although Bertrand Russell opposed it, he wrote that \"The Committee has found that its support, named and on file, is so extensive that regional committees are required to accommodate this strength,\" But supporters became exhausted by the number of demonstrations they attended and \"neither London nor the regional committees had their full complement of a hundred.\"\n\nIn March 1962 Russell addressed a sit-down demonstration in Parliament Square against the sentences on the Wethersfield Six. All the 1,172 protesters were arrested, but there was a growing feeling that such demonstrations were becoming an end in themselves and would not now create a mass movement against nuclear weapons. (Contemporary research showed that public support for the unilateralist cause actually declined in the period when the Committee of 100 was most active.) A sit-down of 7,000 outside the Air Ministry planned for the following September had to be called off because of lack of support, a \"public assembly\" being held instead.\n\nTo underline its opposition to Russian nuclear weapons as well as those of the West, the Committee held a demonstration in Red Square, Moscow, at an international congress of the World Peace Council in the summer of 1962 calling for the abolition of all nuclear weapons and attacking the Soviet system.\n\nFrom 1962 onwards, the Committee became increasingly radical and extended its campaigns to issues other than nuclear weapons. Peter Cadogan, an officer of the Committee, said it was \"trying to go in 12 directions at once\", including campaigning for civil liberties in Greece, against Harold Wilson's failure to produce a promised Vietnam peace initiative and against siting London's third airport at Stansted. Diana Shelley, a member of the London Committee of 100, said that as the Committee adopted objectives other than nuclear disarmament it became \"less non-violent\". In 1963 Russell resigned, though he remained in sympathy with the early aims and activities of the Committee and was careful not to denigrate it publicly. Following his departure, the public image of the Committee deteriorated, many signatories also resigned and \"the Committee of 100 ventured even further into the wilderness of libertarian politics\".\n\nMembers of the Committee were responsible for the Spies for Peace revelations in 1963 about the Regional Seats of Government, a network of secret government bunkers, and later for the escape of George Blake from Wormwood Scrubs Prison.\n\nThe Committee's interest in Greek politics was sparked by the banning of a march by the Greek \"Bertrand Russell Committee of 100\" in Easter 1963, by the expulsion of some of the British Committee of 100's members when they attempted to join the march, and by the murder of Grigoris Lambrakis, a Greek MP and peace activist. Plans to protest against the London visit by King Paul and Queen Frederika in July 1963 were met by official attempts to prevent the demonstrations and draconian prison sentences on demonstrators. The government was criticized in the press for the severity of its treatment of the demonstrators and eventually there were embarrassing climb-downs. Some of the sentences were overturned on appeal and the Home Secretary, Henry Brooke, had to offer financial compensation. One of the demonstrators, Donald Rooum, proved that an offensive weapon had been planted on him and forced a public inquiry that criticized the police and led to the eventual imprisonment of three officers. But a nine-months sentence on Terry Chandler, secretary of the London Committee, was upheld on appeal. Diana Shelley said that the imprisonment of Chandler, \"the force which had driven\" the Committee throughout the summer, had a profoundly damaging effect. Four years after these events, following the 1967 military coup in Greece, a \"non-violent invasion\" of the Greek embassy resulted in prison sentences of up to fifteen months for Committee of 100 demonstrators.\n\nThe Committee of 100 was wound up in October 1968.\n\nAccording to Christopher Driver, the name was suggested by Gustav Metzger and Ralph Schoenman, who derived it from the Guelph Council of 100.\n\nBefore the Committee of 100 came on the scene, civil disobedience on this scale was virtually unknown in Britain, although the researches of its advocates uncovered it as a strand of protest throughout the centuries. The Committee of 100, and comparable movements outside the UK (not least the Civil Rights Movement in the United States), made it a common method of social action, now familiar in environmental, animal rights and peace protests. However, the Committee's strict insistence on nonviolence is rare. The Committee also popularized a new method of organization derived from anarchism and hitherto unfamiliar to those in traditional political parties: without formal membership and based on decentralization and autonomous, self-selected \"working groups\" rather than elected executive committees.\n\n\n\n\n\nMany of the original signatories were later replaced. The list did not include its president, Bertrand Russell, the original officers, Helen Allegranza, Terry Chandler, Ian Dixon, Trevor Hatton, Pat Pottle and Michael Randle, or the later officers, Brian McGee, Jon Tinker, Peter Moule, William Hetherington or Peter Cadogan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29055038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29055038", "title": "Common-interest development", "text": "Common-interest development\n\nCommon-interest development (CID) is the fastest growing form of housing in the world today. They are commonly known as condominiums, timeshares, and planned developments. The ownership benefits of a CID are having rights to an undivided interest in common areas and amenities which might prove to be too expensive to be solely owned. For example, an owner would like to have a pool but cannot afford one. When buying a condominium with a pool in a CID of one hundred units, an owner would have use of that pool for basically one-hundredth the cost due to sharing the cost with the other 99 owners. Timeshare, or vacation ownership, is the same concept. Where buying a second home for vacation purposes might not be financially possible, buying a week or two can be when sharing the overall costs with other participants.\n\nWithin the United States, when a CID is developed, the developer is required to incorporate (in form) a homeowner association (HOA) prior to any property sales. The role of the HOA is to manage the CID once control is transferred from the developer. The HOA governs the CID based upon the incorporated covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) which were recorded when the property was subdivided. The CC&Rs will outline the financial budgeting guideline for the HOA in determining the dollar amount in maintenance fees for assessing the owners. In a wholly owned CID, maintenance fees would normally be assessed on a monthly basis.\n"}
{"id": "45577544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45577544", "title": "Comptroller and Auditor General of Ireland", "text": "Comptroller and Auditor General of Ireland\n\nThe Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) () is the constitutional officer responsible for public audit in Ireland. The Office of the Comptroller and Auditor General is the public audit body for the Republic of Ireland and is headed by the C&AG.\n\nThe Comptroller and Auditor General is ex-officio member of the Standards in Public Office Commission and of the Referendum Commission.\n\nThe C&AG is a member of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions.\n\nThe current Comptroller and Auditor-General is Seamus McCarthy (since 28 May 2012).\n\nThe office of Comptroller and Auditor General was established under Article 33 of the Constitution of Ireland. The C&AG is appointed by the President on the nomination of Dáil Éireann. The office has its origins in Article 62 of the Constitution of the Irish Free State of 1922 as implemented by the Comptroller and Auditor-General Act 1923, which provided that the Comptroller and Auditor-General () (as the office was then known) was to be appointed by Dáil Éireann. The 1923 Act and the Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act 1993 are the two principal legislative instruments governing the C&AG. Both the Constitutional and legislative provisions ensure the absolute independence of the C&AG and the Office of the C&AG to operate independently of government. The C&AG makes reports to Dáil Éireann on the accounts of bodies falling within its remit, essentially the State or State bodies and certain specified agencies or bodies receiving State funds. The reports are examined in detail by the Dáil Committee of Public Accounts ().\n\nThe Comptroller and Auditor General audits and reports on the use of public funds. It establishes that they are legal and used appropriately. It also examines the internal audit systems of public bodies and applies tests for value for money and effectiveness.\n\nThe bodies to be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General are laid down by law. The Comptroller and Auditor General may receive new audit mandates from time to time regarding specific State bodies. It may lose its functions when bodies are dissolved, merged or rationalised.\n\nThe C&AG may not audit all recipients of State funding but only where audits of the recipient bodies are permitted or required by law. As a result, some bodies which receive a large amount of State funding or even are reliant on it, may not be subject to audit by the C&AG. This also has consequences for the remit of the Dáil Dáil Committee of Public Accounts.\n\nThe C&AG makes an Annual Report under the heading \"Accounts of the Public Services\" on funding granted by the Oireachtas. This includes the accounts of 41 Government Departments and offices, including the establishment of the President of Ireland, as well as bodies such as the Garda Síochána, prisons service, and the secret service. It publishes the relevant annual Appropriation Accounts together with the Annual Reports.\n\nThe C&AG is responsible for auditing institutions in the health sector such as the Health Service Executive (HSE) and all Regional Health Boards. It also audits specified hospitals, and a variety of health-related State agencies. It does not audit privately owned hospitals even though they may be in receipt of, or even reliant on, public funds.\n\nIf the C&AG considers problematic issues arise in relation to a Regional Health Board which merit a public accountability, it may issue what is known as a Section 6 Report, authorised by Section 6 of the Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act 1993.\n\nIn the education sector, the C&AG audits all Irish Universities, Institutes of Technology and other specified third-level educational institutions such as the National College of Art and Design. It audits all Vocational Educational Committees. It also audits specified State bodies related to education such as the Higher Education Authority and the Royal Irish Academy.\n\nIf the C&AG considers problematic issues arise in relation to a Vocational Education Committee which merit a public accountability, it may issue what is known as a Section 7 Report, authorized by Section 7 of the Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act 1993.\n\nThe Comptroller and Auditor General audits 25 State bodies in the financial sector including the National Treasury Management Agency (NTMA) and the National Asset Management Agency (NAMA).\n\nThe Comptroller and Auditor General audits a very wide variety (115 in 2012) of State bodies or agencies as diverse as the National Library of Ireland, the Road Safety Authority and the Abbey Theatre.\n\nIt audits all 35 County Enterprise Boards.\n\nThe Comptroller and Auditor General carries out audits of the annual accounts of designated North/South public bodies with cross-border functions or activities relating to both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. These reports are prepared jointly with the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland.\n\nWhere it is considered that an issue of public accountability arises, a report is drawn up.\n\nAn interesting example of cross-border cooperation between the two Comptrollers and Auditors General is seen in the Bytel cross-border broadband project where the Northern Ireland Audit Office and the Office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of Ireland made a coordinated examination of the Bytel project. Although the two Comptrollers and Auditors General issued separate reports, they were issued simultaneously on 3 March 2015 and the report of each Comptroller and Auditor General was annexed to the report of the other. This coordinated examination was the first time this approach has been used.\n\nThe Office publishes special reports on Value for Money according to orthodox value for money criteria (efficiency, economy, effectiveness evaluation systems, procedures, practices) used by public audit bodies.\n\nThe C&AG from time to time publishes Special Reports on specific or general issues arising from audits, inspections or examinations carried out by him or his Office.\n\nThe C&AG does not audit commercial semi-State bodies even when these are overwhelmingly owned by the State. Examples include the ESB (Electricity Supply Board) or Bord na Móna (the Peat Board) both of which are 95% owned by the State. Likewise it does not audit the accounts of Irish Water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52242232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52242232", "title": "Consultative Council on National Health Insurance", "text": "Consultative Council on National Health Insurance\n\nThe Consultative Council on National Health Insurance was established under the Ministry of Health Act 1919 along with the National Health Insurance Joint Committee.\n\nSir Thomas Neill was chair until 1924 and was knighted for his services in the 1920 New Year Honours In 1934 the chair was Mr. J. W. Shaw, of the Order of Druids Friendly Society.\n\nRecords of the Councils and their subcommittees are held in the National Archives.\n"}
{"id": "46744395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46744395", "title": "Corruption in Singapore", "text": "Corruption in Singapore\n\nCorruption in Singapore is generally perceived as low. Cases are mostly handled by the Singapore Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB), a government agency in Singapore that investigates and prosecutes corruption in the public and private sectors.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 6th place out of 180 countries. The highest corruption risk area are identified by Government Defence Anti-Corruption Index as Operations followed by Finance.\n\nBusiness executives surveyed in the World Economic Forum's 2014–2015 Global Competitiveness Report reported no problems doing business in Singapore.\n\nThe political reasoning behind why Singaporean corruption is perceived as being low is due to the fact that compared to neighboring nations such as Thailand or Indonesia, there is a theory that the powers of the state were able to pressure private interests into funneling capital into sectors that would ultimately benefit the public in the long term.\n\nFormer Singapore Land Authority (SLA) deputy director of technology and infrastructure, Koh Seah Wee, and former SLA manager, Christopher Lim Chai Meng, were sentenced to jail by the High Court on cheating and money laundering charges. Koh was sentenced to 22 years of jail after admitting to 59 charges and Lim was sentenced to 15 years imprisonment after admitting to 49 charges. Of the $12.2 million laundered, $7.5 million was recovered from Koh. Koh and Lim cheated SLA by using false invoices issued by ex-swim coach Ho Yen Teck who set up seven sole proprietorships to provide fake IT maintenance services and goods that were not delivered. Ho was jailed for 10 years for the conspiracy.\n\nIn January 2012, two senior civil servants were arrested under graft charges. Former head of the Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF), Peter Lim Sin Pang, was arrested on 19 December 2011, while Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) chief, Ng Boon Gay, was taken in for questioning on 4 January 2012.\nBoth men were arrested in connection with the Prevention of Corruption Act relating to an IT contract, and in late January 2012, it was announced that both men are also facing disciplinary action by the Public Service Commission, which oversees the conduct of civil servants. After being interdicted, a step only taken when an individual “faces serious offences for which 'criminal proceedings or proceedings for his dismissal or reduction in rank are being contemplated'”, the case provoked comment from Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong who promised to punish both men if they are guilty of misconduct.\nThe CPIB’s silence on this investigation came under the scrutiny of a number of MPs during a parliamentary sitting in February 2012. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Home Affairs, Teo Chee Hean then defended the CPIB, stating that any announcement on the outcome of the probe would have been premature and may have compromised the investigation. He also assured concerned MPs that all the findings of the investigation would be publicly reported once they had been finalised.\nPeter Lim Sin Pang was eventually dismissed from service formally in August 2013 and found guilty while Ng Boon Gay retired after being acquitted.\n\nIn July 2012, National Parks Board's (NParks) purchase of 26 Brompton bikes costing $2,200 each sparked a nationwide uproar after it was revealed by a whistleblower on online forum HardwareZone of possible corruption due numerous red flags in the way the procurement was done. Khaw, who initially defended NPark's purchase of the high-end foldable bikes, was criticised for handling the saga poorly. Subsequent investigation by the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau resulted in National Parks Board assistant director Bernard Lim Yong Soon being fined $5,000 for lying to auditors about his relationship with the bicycle firm which was awarded the tender.\n\nOn 23 July 2013, Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB) assistant director Edwin Yeo Seow Hionh was charged with misappropriating at least $1.7 million from the anti-graft agency between 2008 and 2012. Yeo was interdicted from his position as head of field research and technical support at CPIB to assist in a Commercial Affairs Department (CAD) probe into his suspected financial impropriety. Eight of the charges were for misappropriating funds and criminal breach of trust, one was for forgery and the rest were in using part of his ill-gotten gains to gamble at the Marina Bay Sands (MBS) casino. On 20 February 2014, Yeo was sentenced to 10 years jail.\n\nOn 20 February 2014, former Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) protocol chief Lim Cheng Hoe, 61, was sentenced to 15 months' jail for cheating. From February 2008 to May 2012, Lim made false claims for $89,000 worth of pineapple tarts and wine as gifts for foreign diplomats.\n\nGeneral manager and secretary of Ang Mo Kio Town Council (AMKTC), Victor Wong Chee Meng, was removed from his position and placed under investigation by CPIB, after a complaint was lodged in September 2016 over \"the way he handles contracts and dealings in the town council\". Wong, a Public Service Medal recipient, was concurrently an employee of CPG Facilities Management, which is the appointed managing agent of the town council. On 14 March 2018, Wong is charged with 55 counts of corruption offence for receiving some $107,000 in bribes from Chia Sin Lan and Yip Fong Yin, directors of two building and repair companies.\n\nAccording to US prosecutors, Keppel’s offshore and marine arm, Keppel O&M, agreed to pay a US$422 million settlement to avoid a criminal trial for bribing Brazilian officials. Court documents released by the US justice department revealed that Keppel O&M paid US$55 million in bribes between 2001 and 2014, to win 13 contracts with Petrobras and Sete Brasil – two Brazilian oil companies deeply mired in the country’s wide-ranging Operation Car Wash graft scandal. Keppel Corporation is one of the Government-Linked Companies (GLCs) under Temasek Holdings. It is currently the biggest corruption case involving a GLC in Singapore’s history.\n\nRajkumar Padmanathan, 49, was jailed 25 months and six weeks on 27 July 2018 for 28 counts of corruption, cheating and breaching the Official Secrets Act while working at Tengah Air Base and Sembawang Air Base. He leaked tender quotations in order to secure contracts for companies set up by his wife, Jayashree, friend, Jeevan Arumugam, and acquaintance, Kamal Kishore. The total value of contracts awarded to GAS, EFAS, Duratech and GTW set up for the scam was $1,817,379.87 over the period from 2008 to 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "56440875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56440875", "title": "Country (identity)", "text": "Country (identity)\n\nCountry, as an identity or descriptive quality, is the state or character of being rural regardless of environment. It can be at direct odds with quantitative measures of ruralness such as those used by governments for statistical analysis. Country is subjective and often intuitive. It encompasses a broad base of ideas and perceptions that may differ at local, regional or national levels. The term country can be used to refer to individuals both in singular and plural, while the term countryfolk is exclusively used collectively.\n\nIdentity has the tendency to be more localized within relatively isolated populations. Such populations, having distinct traditions of their own, can often be viewed as an outgroup and marginalized by the dominant culture. Accordingly, contrast between rural and urban realities not only produces measurable differences politically and economically, but also affects populations in terms of social identification. Country conceptualization shifts the focus away from the prevailing forces in society (usually centered in larger, metropolitan regions) and towards those on the periphery of society (remote areas and small towns). Consequently, this transition causes rural populations to feel less ignored, better connected with rural diaspora and significantly more empowered. By extension this transition highlights that rural culture is pervasive and does not necessarily depend on residing in a rural area. As a result country conceptualization often assists in reversing the psychological consequences of frequent marginalization.\n\nCountry is a subjective state that perceives the rural experience as focal and inseparable to ones identity, regardless of location. This is often expressed in the demarginalization of ideas, values or lifestyles held as being representative of such a character. A concise understanding of Country as an overarching concept is difficult due to the tendency by observers to equate it with frequently associated elements. As well, by individuals and groups denoting Country with classification that limits in such terms (IE \"rural working-class culture\" or \"southern culture\"). However it is perhaps best epitomized not in objective elements, as place, class or environment, but rather in its subjective symbolism and by the perception that individuals can continue to retain a sense of \"ruralness\" even in urbanized areas. As there is no definitive, scholarly consensus on precisely what constitutes as Country, much of its discourse can be attributed to the artistic community who describe it in romanticized ways. In her master thesis, \"Manifestations of Collective Identity in Country Music - Cultural, Regional, National\", Stephanie Schäfer denotes that country music is important tool for reinforcing this collective identity.\n\nThis emphasis of non-material culture over material resonates with the rural experience as being represented through material elements rather than solely consisting of them. Within the United States country frequently transcends a close relationship with the Culture of the Southern United States as a source of unity and empowerment of local, marginalized peoples who feel left out from the dominant culture. The preference to identify as country before more tradition means of classification, such as race or class, is reflected of self-determination theory. As human beings have an inherent drive to better their association with others they consistently try to do so more effectively. Country identification is one way in that an individual strives for this realization by identifying in ways that are more advantageous to rural populations and not necessarily in ways dictated by mainstream society.\n"}
{"id": "56433035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56433035", "title": "David Mayhew (banker)", "text": "David Mayhew (banker)\n\nDavid Lionel Mayhew CBE (born May 1940) is a British banker, chairman of JP Morgan Cazenove until 2011.\n\nDavid Lionel Mayhew was born in May 1940. He was educated at Eton, and left with 4 O levels.\n\nMayhew joined the merchant bank Cazenove as a partner in 1968, and worked there for more than 40 years. On standing down as chairman of JP Morgan Cazenove in November 2011, the \"New York Times\" called him \"one of Britain’s most respected bankers\". Mayhew subsequently became a vice chairman of global investment banking for JPMorgan Chase. He was appointed CBE in the 2011 Birthday Honours.\n\nMayhew is married to Ginny, a former model, they have three children, and live in Hampshire. He collects art, and is a member of Boodle's and the City of London club. In May 2017, he gave £25,000 to the Conservative Party.\n"}
{"id": "2269282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2269282", "title": "Dmitry Karakozov", "text": "Dmitry Karakozov\n\nDmitry Vladimirovich Karakozov (\"Дми́трий Влади́мирович Карако́зов\" in Russian) (October 23 Old Style (November 4 New Style), 1840 – September 3 Old Style (September 15 New Style), 1866) was the first Russian revolutionary to make an attempt on the life of a tsar. The attempt to assassinate tsar Alexander II failed and Karakozov was executed.\n\nKarakozov was born in the family of a minor nobility in Kostroma. He grew to hate his class because all they did was \"suck the peasants' blood.\" He studied at Kazan University 1861-64 and at Moscow State University 1864-66. He was expelled from both which led to depression and a suicide attempt. In early 1866 he became a member of the \"revolutionary wing\" of the Ishutin Society, founded by his cousin Nikolai Ishutin in Moscow in 1863. \n\nIn the spring of 1866, Karakozov arrived in St Petersburg to assassinate Alexander II. He circulated his hand-written proclamation called \"Друзьям-рабочим\" (\"To Friends-Workers\"), in which he incited people to revolt. He wrote a manifesto to the St Petersburg governor blaming the Tsar for the suffering of the poor:\n\"I have decided to destroy the evil Tsar, and to die for my beloved people.\" This note never reached anyone; it was lost in the mail.\n\nIt is possible 1866 was the year chosen because of the character of Rakhmetov in \"What Is to Be Done?\". This fictional inspiration of revolutionary youth plans for a revolution to coincide with the apocalypse according to Newton-1866.\n\nOn 4 April 1866, Dmitry Karakozov made an unsuccessful attempt on the life of Tsar Alexander II at the gates of the Summer Garden in St Petersburg. As the Tsar was leaving, Dmitry rushed forward to fire. The attempt was thwarted by Ossip Komissarov, a peasant-born hatter's apprentice, who jostled Karakozov's elbow just before the shot was fired. Contemporary monarchists argued that Komissarov's action proved the people's love for their tsar, while contemporary radicals and later Soviet historians argued that Komissarov's involvement in the event was either an accident or an outright government fabrication. Komissarov was ennobled and given a generous allowance, but proved to be an embarrassment to the government due to his boorishness and incoherence and had to be politely removed to the countryside.\n\nKarakozov tried to flee instead of using the second cartridge in his double-barrelled gun, but was easily caught by the guards. He kept one hand in his jacket. It was revealed later to be holding morphine and strychnine to kill himself and prussic acid to disfigure his face. Alexander asked him \"What do you want?\" \"Nothing, nothing,\" he replied. \n\nKarakozov was taken to the Peter and Paul Fortress. He begged for forgiveness and converted to Russian Orthodoxy. The Supreme Criminal Court sentenced him to death by hanging and he was executed in St. Petersburg on 3 September 1866. Ten of his accomplices were sentenced to hard labor, another 25 were acquitted. As a result of the assassination attempt, the Tsar punished St Petersburg University. Students could no longer form any kind of organisation, no matter how harmless (Ishutin's organisation had officially been to set up sewing cooperatives). They were subjected to constant surveillance and periodic searches.\n\nKarakozov was an inspiration for the radical nihilists Sergei Nechaev and Vera Zasulich. Alexander II was assassinated in 1881.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56286103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56286103", "title": "Ende Gelände 2017", "text": "Ende Gelände 2017\n\nEnde Gelände 2017 was a large civil disobedience protest movement in Germany to limit global warming through fossil fuel phase-out.\n\n3,000-6,000 environmental activists from several countries blocked two German open-pit coal mines:\n\n\nOn 15 August 2015, in the first year of Ende Gelände, 1,500 activists blocked the Garzweiler surface mine owned by RWE (Ende Gelände 2015).\n\nOn 13 to 15 May 2016, with Ende Gelände 2016, 4,000 activists blocked the Welzow-Süd open-pit coal mine and the coal-fired Schwarze Pumpe power station, then owned by Vattenfall (Spremberg).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6001385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6001385", "title": "European Institute of Cultural Routes", "text": "European Institute of Cultural Routes\n\nThe European Institute of Cultural Routes is a non-profit association based in Luxembourg whose aim is to help the Council of Europe, as a technical body, in the establishment of European Cultural Routes.\n\nIt was established in 1998 and its role is:\n\nThe Council of Europe:\n\nThe European Institute of Cultural Routes\n\nThe European Institute of Cultural Routes (EICR) was established as a European public service and technical body as part of a political agreement between the Council of Europe and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (Ministry of Culture, Further Education and Research). Since 1988 the Institute has worked in close collaboration with the Council of Europe in carrying out its responsibilities, namely to ensure the continuity and development of the programme of the Cultural Routes in the 51 signatory countries of the European Cultural Convention and, depending on the geographical and historical requirements of the themes, in those countries which have had and continue to have close relations with Europe.\n\nThe EICR resides in the Centre Culturel de Rencontre – Abbaye de Neumünster, in Luxembourg. It retains all relevant documentation and maintains a specialist library on the routes. The Institute regularly welcomes those in charge of the networks of the routes as well as project managers, researchers, students and members of the general public. The EICR is also charged with participating in European training, research and analysis programmes concerning cultural tourism, for the European Commission and various governments and project managers. The Institute organises themed symposiums and specialist training, collaborates in the setting up and running of the Routes, and participates in specialist exhibitions while promoting a greater awareness of the links between culture, tourism and the environment.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2006 the Institute managed the visibility and communication work of the European research programme PICTURE (Proactive management of the impact of cultural tourism on urban resources and economies).\n\nIn 2008 the European Commission (Directorate-General Education and Culture) named the EICR as a body active on a European level in the field of Culture, in recognition for its essential role in creating a coherent programme of sustainable cultural tourism initiatives promoting the “Destination Europe” and encouraging Europeans to discover their common roots and history through travel and the exploration of material and immaterial heritage.\n\nThe Institute is a member of NECSTOUR, an association of European regions working to develop competitive and sustainable tourism, and has signed an agreement with the Cité de la Culture et du Tourisme durable to provide distance-learning and to study the sustainability of introducing tourism to the cultural routes. The Institute is currently working with the Council of Europe and the Tourism Unit of the European Commission on a study into the impact of the cultural routes on small and medium businesses.\n\nIn 2011 the Institute welcome a Partial Agreement aimed at combining the voluntary contributions of those member countries of the Council of Europe who wish to increase the funds available to the cultural routes.\n\nSince the opening up of Europe to the East, the Cultural Routes have enabled, and continue to enable (particularly by expanding to include the Southern Caucasus), the creation of a real dialogue between Eastern and Western Europeans. The opening of a resource centre for the Cultural Routes in Sibiu, in the Casa Luxembourg, in liaison with the European Institute of Cultural Routes in Luxembourg and the Mioritics Association is testament to this.\n\nStefano DOMINIONI is the current Director of the Institute and Executive Secretary of the Enlarged Partial Agreement on Cultural Routes of the Council of Europe. Michel Tomas Penette and Penelope Denu directed the Institute from 1998 to 2011 and from 2011 to 2015 respectively.\n\nColette FLESCH is President of the Institute since 2013. She replaced Erna Hennicot-Schoepges and Guy Dockendorf.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46587938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46587938", "title": "Faith-based organization", "text": "Faith-based organization\n\nA Faith-based organization is an organization whose values are based on faith and/or beliefs, which has a mission based on social values of the particular faith, and which most often draws its activists (leaders, staff, volunteers) from a particular faith group. The faith to which the organization is relating to does not have to be academically classified as religion. The term \"faith-based organization\" is more inclusive than the term \"religious organization\" as it refers also to the non-congregation faith beliefs.\n\nFaith-based organizations are grass-root organizations active locally but also on an international scale. Their funding comes from member donations, but they are also eligible for state or international grants.\n\nCurrently, this terminology is widely used in governmental, inter-governmental, and non-governmental settings. World Bank prepared a list of international faith-based organizations.\n"}
{"id": "5084736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5084736", "title": "Fourth Polish Republic", "text": "Fourth Polish Republic\n\nFourth Polish Republic ( or \"IV RP\"), a plan for moral revolution and political change put forth in 1997 by the Polish conservative philosopher Rafał Matyja in the magazine \"Nowe Państwo\" (\"New Country\"). \"Fourth Republic\" was a political slogan used by the right-leaning Prawo i Sprawiedliwość (PiS) party in the 2005 Polish parliamentary election.\n\nAccording to PiS, the current Third Polish Republic is a post-communist creation whose very foundations must be changed to create a truly democratic state free of its past.\n\n“IV RP”, along with it's derivate, “V RP” (\"Fifth Polish Republic\"), has also been used by the critics to satirize the concept of unnecessary constitutional changes made for arbitrary reasons.\n\n2. http://www.pis.org.pl/doc.php?d=unit&id=7 the project of constitution IV RP made by Prawo i Sprawiedliwość (document in polish)\n"}
{"id": "7240070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7240070", "title": "Gamla Riksarkivet", "text": "Gamla Riksarkivet\n\nGamla Riksarkivet (Old National Archives) is a building at Arkivgatan 3 on Riddarholmen in Stockholm, Sweden. Riksarkivet, the Swedish National Archives, were located in the building until 1968.\n\nThe 19th century Brick Romanesque architecture of the building is alluding to the medieval history of Riddarholmen. The plan of the building is, however, typical for public buildings of its era, the grand style central portion clearly articulated in the façade together with the huge windows of the reading-room. The building is connected to the Stenbock Palace where the archive was once started in 1863. It is also similar in style to the Norstedt Building located just north of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "596797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596797", "title": "German Peace Society", "text": "German Peace Society\n\nThe German Peace Society ( (DFG)) was founded in 1892 in Berlin. In 1900 it moved its headquarters to Stuttgart. It still exists and is known as the \"Deutsche Friedensgesellschaft - Vereinigte KriegsdienstgegnerInnen\" (DFG-VK; German Peace Society - United War Resisters).\n\nPersons associated with it historically include Nobel Peace Prize winners Alfred Hermann Fried and Bertha von Suttner, as well as Ludwig Quidde, Richard Grelling and Carl von Ossietzky. Suppressed by the Nazis, it was refounded in November 1945.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19780839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19780839", "title": "History of the Kuomintang", "text": "History of the Kuomintang\n\nThe Kuomintang (Traditional Chinese: 中國國民黨; Simplified Chinese: 中国国民党; Hanyu Pinyin: Zhōngguó Guómíndǎng; Initials: KMT or GMD) is a Chinese political party that ruled China 1927–48 and then moved to Taiwan. The name translates as \"China's National People's Party\" and was historically referred to as the Chinese Nationalists. The Party was initially founded on 25 August 1912, by Sun Yat-sen but dissolved in November 1913. It reformed on October 10th 1919, again led by Sun Yat-sen, and became the ruling party in China. After Sun's death, the party was dominated from 1927 to 1975 by Chiang Kai-shek. Though the KMT lost the civil war with the Communist Party of China in 1949, the party took control of Taiwan and remains a major political party of the Republic of China based in Taiwan.\n\nFounded in 1912 by Sun Yat-sen, the KMT helped topple the Qing Emperor and promoted modernization along Western lines. The party played a significant part in the first Chinese first National Assembly where it was the majority party. However the KMT failed to achieve complete control. The post of president was given to Yuan Shikai (1859–1916) as reward for his part in the revolution. Yuan Shikai abused his powers, overriding the constitution and creating strong tensions between himself and the other parties. In July 1913, the KMT staged a 'Second Revolution' to depose Yuan. This failed and the following crack down by Yuan led to the dissolution of the KMT and the exile of its leadership, mostly to Japan. Subsequently, Yuan Shikai had himself made Emperor of China.\n\nIn exile, Sun Yat-sen and other former KMT members founded several revolutionary parties under various names but with little success. These parties were united by Sun in 1919 under the title \"The Kuomintang of China\". The new party returned to Guangzhou in China in 1920 where it set up a government but failed to achieve control of all of China. After the death of Yuan Shikai in 1916, China fractured into many regions controlled by warlords. To strengthen the party's position, it accepted aid and support from the Soviet Union and its Comintern. The fledgling Communist Party of China was encouraged to join the KMT and thus formed the First United Front. The KMT gradually increased its sphere of influence from its Guangzhou base. Sun Yat-sen died in 1925 and Chiang Kai-shek (1887–1975) became the KMT strong man. In 1926 Chiang led a military operation known as the Northern Expedition against the warlords that controlled much of the country. In 1927, Chiang instigated the April 12 Incident in Shanghai in which the Communist Party of China and Communist elements of the KMT were purged. The Northern Expedition proved successful and the KMT party came to power throughout China (except Manchuria) in 1927 under the leadership of Chiang. The capital of China was moved to Nanjing in order to be closer to the party's strong base in southern China.\n\nThe party was always concerned with strengthening Chinese identity at the same time it was discarding old traditions in the name of modernity. In 1929, the KMT government suppressed the textbook \"Modern Chinese History,\" widely used in secondary education. The Nationalists were concerned that, by not admitting the existence of the earliest emperors in ancient Chinese history, the book would weaken the foundation of the state. The case of the \"Modern Chinese History\" textbook reflects the symptoms of the period: banning the textbook strengthened the Nationalists' ideological control but also revealed their fear of the New Culture Movement and its more liberal ideological implications. The KMT tried to destroy the Communist party of Mao Zedong, but was unable to stop the invasion by Japan, which controlled most of the coastline and major cities, 1937–1945. Chiang Kai-shek secured massive military and economic aid from the United States, and in 1945 became one of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council, with a veto. The KMT governed most of China until it was defeated in the civil war by the Communists in 1949.\n\nThe leadership, the remaining army, and hundreds of thousands of businessmen and other supporters, two million in all, fled to Taiwan. They continued to operate there as the \"Republic of China\" and dreamed of invading and reconquering what they called \"Mainland China\". The United States, however, set up a naval cordon after 1950 that has since prevented an invasion in either direction. The KMT regime kept the island under martial law for 38 years, killing up to 30,000 opponents during its dictatorial rule by Chiang Kai-shek and his son Chiang Ching-kuo (1910–1988). As the original leadership died off, it had to hold elections, allowed democracy, with full election of parliament in the early 1990s and first direct presidential election in 1996. After a defeat by the Democratic Progressive Party in 2000, the KMT returned to power in the elections of 2008 and 2012.\n\nThe Kuomintang traces its roots to the Revive China Society, which was founded in 1895 and merged with several other anti-monarchist societies as the Revolutionary Alliance in 1905. After the overthrow of the Qing Dynasty in the 1911 Xinhai Revolution and the founding of the Republic of China, the Kuomintang was formally established on 25 August 1912 at the Huguang Guild Hall in Beijing where the Revolutionary Alliance and several smaller revolutionary groups joined together to contest the first National Assembly elections.\n\nSun Yat-sen, who had just stepped down as provisional president of the Republic of China, was chosen as its overall leader under the title of premier (), and Huang Xing was chosen as Sun's deputy. However, the most influential member of the party was the third ranking Song Jiaoren, who mobilized mass support from gentry and merchants for the KMT on a platform of promoting constitutional parliamentary democracy. Though the party had an overwhelming majority in the first National Assembly, President Yuan Shikai started ignoring the parliamentary body in making presidential decisions, counter to the Constitution, and assassinated its parliamentary leader Song Jiaoren in Shanghai in 1913. Members of the KMT led by Sun Yat-sen staged the Second Revolution in July 1913, a poorly planned and ill-supported armed rising to overthrow Yuan, and failed. Yuan dissolved the KMT in November (whose members had largely fled into exile in Japan) and dismissed the parliament early in 1914. Yuan Shikai proclaimed himself emperor in December 1915.\nWhile exiled in Japan in 1914, Sun established the Chinese Revolutionary Party, but many of his old revolutionary comrades, including Huang Xing, Wang Jingwei, Hu Hanmin and Chen Jiongming, refused to join him or support his efforts in inciting armed uprising against Yuan Shikai. In order to join the Chinese Revolutionary Party, members must take an oath of personal loyalty to Sun, which many old revolutionaries regarded as undemocratic and contrary to the spirit of the revolution. Thus, many old revolutionaries did not join Sun's new organization, and he was largely sidelined within the Republican movement during this period. Sun returned to China in 1917 to establish a rival government in Guangzhou, but was soon forced out of office and exiled to Shanghai. There, with renewed support, he resurrected the KMT on 10 October 1919, but under the name of the \"Chinese\" Kuomintang, as the old party had simply been called the Kuomintang. In 1920, Sun and the KMT were restored in Guangdong. In 1923, the KMT and its government accepted aid from the Soviet Union after being denied recognition by the western powers. Soviet advisers – the most prominent of whom was Mikhail Borodin, an agent of the Comintern – began to arrive in China in 1923 to aid in the reorganization and consolidation of the KMT along the lines of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, establishing a Leninist party structure that lasted into the 1990s. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) was under Comintern instructions to cooperate with the KMT, and its members were encouraged to join while maintaining their separate party identities, forming the First United Front between the two parties.\n\nSoviet advisers also helped the Nationalists set up a political institute to train propagandists in mass mobilization techniques, and in 1923 Chiang Kai-shek, one of Sun's lieutenants from the Tongmenghui days, was sent to Moscow for several months' military and political study. At the first party congress in 1924, which included non-KMT delegates such as members of the CCP, they adopted Sun's political theory, which included the Three Principles of the People – nationalism, democracy, and people's livelihood.\n\nFollowing the death of Sun Yat-sen, General Chiang Kai-shek emerged as the KMT leader and launched the Northern Expedition in 1926 to defeat the northern warlords and unite China under the party. He halted briefly in Shanghai in 1927 to purge the Communists who had been allied with the KMT, which sparked the Chinese Civil War. When Kuomintang forces took Beijing, as the city was the \"de jure\" internationally recognized capital, though previously controlled by the feuding warlords, this event allowed the Kuomintang to receive widespread diplomatic recognition in the same year. The capital was moved from Beijing to Nanjing, the original capital of the Ming Dynasty, and thus a symbolic purge of the final Qing elements. This period of KMT rule in China between 1927 and 1937 became known as the Nanjing decade.\n\nIn sum, the KMT began as a heterogeneous group advocating American-inspired federalism and provincial independence. However, after its reorganization along Soviet lines, the party aimed to establish a centralized one-party state with one ideology – Three Principles of the People. This was even more evident following Sun's elevation into a cult figure after his death. The control by one single party began the period of \"political tutelage,\" whereby the party was to control the government while instructing the people on how to participate in a democratic system. After several military campaigns and with the help of German military advisors (German planned fifth \"extermination campaign\"), the Communists were forced to withdraw from their bases in southern and central China into the mountains in a massive military retreat known famously as the Long March, an undertaking which would eventually increase their reputation among the peasants. Out of the 86,000 Communist soldiers that broke out of the pocket, only 20,000 would make the 10,000 km march to Shaanxi province. The Kuomintang continued to attack the Communists. This was in line with Chiang's policy of solving internal conflicts (warlords and communists) before fighting external invasions (Japan). However, Zhang Xueliang, who believed that the Japanese invasion constituted the greater prevailing threat, took Chiang hostage during the Xi'an Incident in 1937 and forced Chiang to agree to an alliance with the Communists in the total war against the Japanese. The Second Sino-Japanese War had officially started, and would last until the Japanese surrender in 1945. However, in many situations the alliance was in name only; after a brief period of cooperation, the armies began to fight the Japanese separately, rather than as coordinated allies. Conflicts between KMT and communists were still common during the war, and documented claims of Communist attacks upon the KMT forces, and vice versa, abound.\n\nIn these incidents, it should be noted that The KMT armies typically utilized more traditional tactics while the Communists chose guerilla tactics, leading to KMT claims that the Communists often refused to support the KMT troops, choosing to withdraw and let the KMT troops take the brunt of Japanese attacks. These same guerilla tactics, honed against the Japanese forces, were used to great success later during open civil war, as well as the Allied forces in the Korean War and the U.S. forces in the Vietnam War.\n\nFull-scale civil war between the Communists and KMT resumed after the defeat of Japan. The Communist armies, previously a minor faction, grew rapidly in influence and power due to several errors on the KMT's part: first, the KMT reduced troop levels precipitously after the Japanese surrender, leaving large numbers of able-bodied, trained fighting men who became unemployed and disgruntled with the KMT as prime recruits for the Communists.\n\nSecond, the collapse of the KMT regime can in part be attributed to the government's economic policies, which triggered capital flight among the businessmen who had been the KMT's strongest supporters. The cotton textile industry was the leading sector of Chinese industry, but in 1948, shortages of raw cotton plunged the industry into dire straits. The KMT government responded with an aggressive control policy that directly procured cotton from producers to ensure a sufficient supply and established a price freeze on cotton thread and textiles. This policy failed because of resistance from cotton textile industrialists, who relocated textile facilities and capital to Hong Kong or Taiwan around the end of 1948 and early 1949 when prices soared and inflation spiraled out of control. Their withdrawal of support was a shattering blow to the morale of the KMT.\n\nAmong the most despised and ineffective efforts it undertook to contain inflation was the conversion to the gold standard for the national treasury and the Gold Standard Script () in August 1948, outlawing private ownership of gold, silver, and foreign exchange, collecting all such precious metals and foreign exchange from the people and issuing the Gold Standard Script in exchange. The new script became worthless in only ten months and greatly reinforced the nationwide perception of KMT as a corrupt or at best inept entity. Third, Chiang Kai-shek ordered his forces to defend the urbanized cities. This decision gave the Communists a chance to move freely through the countryside. At first, the KMT had the edge with the aid of weapons and ammunition from the United States. However, with hyperinflation and other economic ills, widespread corruption, the KMT continued to lose popular support. At the same time, the suspension of American aid and tens of thousands of deserted or decommissioned soldiers being recruited to the Communist cause tipped the balance of power quickly to the Communist side, and the overwhelming popular support for the Communists in most of the country made it all but impossible for the KMT forces to carry out successful assaults against the Communists. By the end of 1949, the Communists controlled almost all of mainland China, as the KMT retreated to Taiwan with a significant amount of China's national treasures and 2 million people, including military forces and refugees. Some party members stayed in the mainland and broke away from the main KMT to found the Revolutionary Committee of the Kuomintang, which still currently exists as one of the eight minor registered parties in the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe Kuomintang was a nationalist revolutionary party, which had been supported by the Soviet Union. It was organized on Leninism.\n\nThe Kuomintang had several influences left upon its ideology by revolutionary thinking. The Kuomintang and Chiang Kai-shek used the words feudal and counterrevolutionary as synonyms for evil, and backwardness, and proudly proclaimed themselves to be revolutionary. Chiang called the warlords feudalists, and called for feudalism and counterrevolutionaries to be stamped out by the Kuomintang. Chiang showed extreme rage when he was called a warlord, because of its negative, feudal connotations. Ma Bufang was forced to defend himself against the accusations, and stated to the news media that his army was a part of \"National army, people's power\".\n\nChiang Kai-shek, the head of the Kuomintang, warned the Soviet Union and other foreign countries about interfering in Chinese affairs. He was personally angry at the way China was treated by foreigners, mainly by the Soviet Union, Britain, and the United States. He and his New Life Movement called for the crushing of Soviet, Western, American and other foreign influences in China. Chen Lifu, a CC Clique member in the KMT, said \"Communism originated from Soviet imperialism, which has encroached on our country.\" It was also noted that \"the white bear of the North Pole is known for its viciousness and cruelty.\"\n\nThe Blue Shirts Society, a fascist paramilitary organization within the Kuomintang modeled after Mussolini's blackshirts, was anti-foreign and anticommunist, and stated that its agenda was to expel foreign (Japanese and Western) imperialists from China, crush Communism, and eliminate feudalism. In addition to being anticommunist, some Kuomintang members, like Chiang Kaishek's right-hand man Dai Li were anti-American, and wanted to expel American influence.\n\nKuomintang leaders across China adopted nationalist rhetoric. The Chinese Muslim general Ma Bufang of Qinghai presented himself as a Chinese nationalist to the people of China, fighting against British imperialism, to deflect criticism by opponents that his government was feudal and oppressed minorities like Tibetans and Buddhist Mongols. He used his Chinese nationalist credentials to his advantage to keep himself in power.\n\nThe Kuomintang pursued a sinicization policy, it was stated that \"the time had come to set about the business of making all natives either turn Chinese or get out\" by foreign observers of Kuomintang policy. It was noted that \"Chinese colonization\" of \"Mongolia and Manchuria\" led to the conclusion \"to a conviction that the day of the barbarian was finally over.\"\n\nDr. Sun Yat-sen, the founding father of the Republic of China and of the Kuomintang party praised the Boxers in the Boxer Rebellion for fighting against Western Imperialism. He said the Boxers were courageous and fearless, fighting to the death against the Western armies, Dr. Sun specifically cited the Battle of Yangcun.\n\nDuring the Northern Expedition, the Kuomintang incited anti-foreign, anti-western sentiment. Portraits of Sun Yatsen replaced the crucifix in several churches, KMT posters proclaimed- \"Jesus Christ is dead. Why not worship something alive such as Nationalism?\". Foreign missionaries were attacked and anti foreign riots broke out.\n\nThe Kuomintang branch in Guangxi province, led by the New Guangxi Clique implemented anti-imperialist, anti-religious, and anti-foreign policies.\n\nDuring the Northern Expedition, in 1926 in Guangxi, Muslim General Bai Chongxi led his troops in destroying Buddhist temples and smashing idols, turning the temples into schools and Kuomintang party headquarters. It was reported that almost all of Buddhist monasteries in Guangxi were destroyed by Bai in this manner. The monks were removed. Bai led an anti-foreign wave in Guangxi, attacking American, European, and other foreigners and missionaries, and generally making the province unsafe for non-natives. Westerners fled from the province, and some Chinese Christians were also attacked as imperialist agents.\n\nThe three goals of his movement were anti-foreign, anti-imperialism, and anti-religion. Bai led the anti-religious movement, against superstition. Huang Shaoxiong, also a Kuomintang member of the New Guangxi Clique, supported Bai's campaign, and Huang was not a Muslim, the anti religious campaign was agreed upon by all Guangxi Kuomintang members.\n\nAs a Kuomintang member, Bai and the other Guangxi clique members allowed the Communists to continue attacking foreigners and smash idols, since they shared the goal of expelling the foreign powers from China, but they stopped Communists from initiating social change.\n\nGeneral Bai also wanted to aggressively expel foreign powers from other areas of China. Bai gave a speech in which he said that the minorities of china were suffering under foreign oppression. He cited specific examples, such as the Tibetans under the British, the Manchus under the Japanese, the Mongols under the Outer Mongolian People's Republic, and the Uyghurs of Xinjiang under the Soviet Union. Bai called upon China to assist them in expelling the foreigners from those lands. He personally wanted to lead an expedition to seize back Xinjiang to bring it under Chinese control, in the style that Zuo Zongtang led during the Dungan revolt.\n\nDuring the Kuomintang Pacification of Qinghai the Muslim General Ma Bufang destroyed Tibetan Buddhist monasteries with support from the Kuomintang government.\n\nGeneral Ma Bufang, a Sufi, who backed the Yihewani Muslims, and persecuted the Fundamentalist Salafi/Wahhabi Muslim sect. The Yihewani forced the Salafis into hiding. They were not allowed to move or worship openly. The Yihewani had become secular and Chinese nationalist, and they considered the Salafiyya to be \"Heterodox\" (xie jiao), and people who followed foreigner's teachings (waidao). Only after the Communists took over were the Salafis allowed to come out and worship openly.\n\nThe Kuomintang had a left wing and a right wing, the left being more radical in its pro Soviet policies, but both wings equally persecuted merchants, accusing them of being counterrevolutionaries and reactionaries. The right wing under Chiang Kaishek prevailed, and continued radical policies against private merchants and industrialists, even as they denounced communism.\n\nOne of the Three Principles of the People of the Kuomintang, Mínshēng, was defined as socialism as Dr. Sun Yatsen. He defined this principle of saying in his last days \"it's socialism and it's communism.\". The concept may be understood as social welfare as well. Sun understood it as an industrial economy and equality of land holdings for the Chinese peasant farmers. Here he was influenced by the American thinker Henry George (see Georgism) and German thinker Karl Marx; the land value tax in Taiwan is a legacy thereof. He divided livelihood into four areas: food, clothing, housing, and transportation; and planned out how an ideal (Chinese) government can take care of these for its people.\n\nThe Kuomintang was referred to having a socialist ideology. \"Equalization of land rights\" was a clause included by Dr. Sun in the original Tongmenhui. The Kuomintang's revolutionary ideology in the 1920s incorporated unique Chinese Socialism as part of its ideology.\n\nThe Soviet Union trained Kuomintang revolutionaries in the Moscow Sun Yat-sen University. In the West and in the Soviet Union, Chiang was known as the \"Red General\". Movie theaters in the Soviet Union showed newsreels and clips of Chiang, at Moscow Sun Yat-sen University Portraits of Chiang were hung on the walls, and in the Soviet May Day Parades that year, Chiang's portrait was to be carried along with the portraits of Karl Marx, Lenin, Stalin, and other socialist leaders.\n\nThe Kuomintang attempted to levy taxes upon merchants in Canton, and the merchants resisted by raising an army, the Merchant's volunteer corps. Dr. Sun initiated this anti merchant policy, and Chiang Kai-shek enforced it, Chiang led his army of Whampoa Military Academy graduates to defeat the merchant's army. Chiang was assisted by Soviet advisors, who supplied him with weapons, while the merchants were supplied with weapons from the Western countries.\n\nThe Kuomintang were accused of leading a \"Red Revolution\"in Canton. The merchants were conservative and reactionary, and their Volunteer Corp leader Chen Lianbao was a prominent comprador trader.\n\nThe merchants were supported by the foreign, western Imperialists such as the British, who led an international flotilla to support them against Dr. Sun. Chiang seized the western supplied weapons from the merchants, and battled against them. A Kuomintang General executed several merchants, and the Kuomintang formed a Soviet inspired Revolutionary Committee. The British Communist party congratulated Dr. Sun for his war against foreign imperialists and capitalists.\n\nIn 1948, the Kuomintang again attacked the merchants of Shanghai, Chiang Kaishek sent his son Chiang Ching-kuo to restore economic order. Ching-kuo copied Soviet methods, which he learned during his stay there, to start a social revolution by attacking middle class merchants. He also enforced low prices on all goods to raise support from the Proletariat.\n\nAs riots broke out and savings were ruined, bankrupting shopowners, Ching-kuo began to attack the wealthy, seizing assets and placing them under arrest. The son of the gangster Du Yuesheng was arrested by him. Ching-kuo ordered Kuomintang agents to raid the Yangtze Development Corporation's warehouses, which was privately owned by H.H. Kung and his family. H.H. Kung's wife was Soong Ai-ling, the sister of Soong Mei-ling who was Ching-kuo's stepmother. H.H. Kung's son David was arrested, the Kung's responded by blackmailing the Chiang's, threatening to release information about them, eventually he was freed after negotiations, and Ching-kuo resigned, ending the terror on the Shanghainese merchants.\n\nThe Kuomintang also promotes Government-owned corporations. The Kuomintang founder Sun Yat-sen, was heavily influenced by the economic ideas of Henry George, who believed that the rents extracted from natural monopolies or the usage of land belonged to the public. Dr. Sun argued for Georgism and emphasized the importance of a mixed economy, which he termed \"The Principle of Minsheng\" in his Three Principles of the People.\n\n\"The railroads, public utilities, canals, and forests should be nationalized, and all income from the land and mines should be in the hands of the State. With this money in hand, the State can therefore finance the social welfare programs.\"\n\nThe Kuomintang Muslim Governor of Ningxia, Ma Hongkui promoted state owned monopoly companies. His government had a company, Fu Ning Company, which had a monopoly over commercial and industry in Ningxia.\n\nThe Kuomintang Muslim Governor of Qinghai, General Ma Bufang was described as a socialist. An American scholar and government advisor, A. Doak Barnett, praised Ma Bufang's government as \"one of the most efficient in China, and one of the most energetic. While most of China is bogged down, almost inevitably, by Civil War, Chinghai is attempting to carry our small-scale, but nevertheless ambitious, development and reconstruction schemes on its own initiative\"\n\nGeneral Ma started a state run and controlled industrialization project, directly creating educational, medical, agricultural, and sanitation projects, run or assisted by the state. The state provided money for food and uniforms in all schools, state run or private. Roads and a theater were constructed. The state controlled all the press, no freedom was allowed for independent journalists. His regime was dictatoral in its political system. Barnett admitted that the regime had \"stern authoritarianism\" and \"little room for personal freedom\".\n\nCorporations such as CSBC Corporation, Taiwan, CPC Corporation, Taiwan and Aerospace Industrial Development Corporation are owned by the state in the Republic of China.\n\nMarxists also existed in the Kuomintang party. They viewed the Chinese revolution in different terms than the Communists, claiming that China already went past its feudal stage and in a stagnation period rather than in another mode of production. These Marxists in the Kuomintang opposed the Chinese communist party ideology.\n\nThe Kuomintang used traditional Chinese religious ceremonies, the souls of Party martyrs who died fighting for the Kuomintang and the revolution and the party founder Dr. Sun Yatsen were sent to heaven according to the Kuomintang party. Chiang Kaishek believed that these martyrs witnessed events on earth from heaven.\n\nWhen the Northern Expedition was complete, Kuomintang Generals led by Chiang Kaishek paid tribute to Dr. Sun's soul in heaven with a sacrificial ceremony at the Xiangshan Temple in Beijing in July 1928, among the Kuomintang Generals present were the Muslim Generals Bai Chongxi and Ma Fuxiang.\n\nThe Kuomintang backed the New Life Movement, which promoted Confucianism, and it was also against westernization.\n\nThe Kuomintang leaders also opposed the May Fourth Movement. Chiang Kai-shek, as a nationalist, and Confucianist, was against the iconoclasm of the May Fourth Movement. He viewed some western ideas as foreign, as a Chinese nationalist, and that the introduction of western ideas and literature that the May Fourth Movement wanted was not welcome. He and Dr. Sun Yat-sen criticized these May Fourth intellectuals for corrupting morals of youth.\n\nImams sponsored by the Kuomintang called for Muslims to go on Jihad to become shaheed (Muslim term for martyr) in battle, where Muslims believed they would go automatically to heaven. Becoming a shaheed in the Jihad for the country was encouraged by the Kuomintang, which was called \"glorious death for the state\" and a hadith promoting nationalism was spread. A song written by Xue Wenbo at the Muslim Chengda school, which was controlled by the Kuomintang, called for martyrdom in battle for China against Japan.\n\nThe Kuomintang also incorporated Confucianism in its jurisprudence. It pardoned Shi Jianqiao for murdering Sun Chuanfang, because she did it in revenge since Sun executed her father Shi Congbin, which was an example of Filial piety to one's parents in Confucianism. The Kuomintang encouraged filial revenge killings and extended pardons to those who performed them.\n\nHistorians until the 1990s often portrayed the KMT simply as a band of corrupt leaders who colluded with rich financiers and industrialists and cared little for China's workers and peasants, contrasting it with the supposed broad base of popular support for the communists. However, as Bodenhorn (2002) shows, scholars are coming to an appreciation of its efforts to build a vibrant and dynamic state, before it lost on the battlefield to the Communists, but then had a second chance on Taiwan where they did succeed.\n\nThe KMT promoted science and industry, and tried to eradicate such traditional practices as footbinding, and extravagant marriage and funerary customs. The KMT had a complicated relationship to Christian missionary activity. Many high officials (including Chiang) were Christians and American public opinion that favored China was based on the missionaries. At the same time in the villages the KMT criticized missionary activity as an egregious example of imperialism. No significant action against the churches was taken but criticizing them was a much safer way to spread the anti-imperialist message of the KMT than taking on foreign firms or the U.S. The anti-Christian movements were important tactically for gaining the support of students and others in society who were angry at the influence of outsiders in China.\n\nThe Kuomintang purged China's education system of western ideas, introducing Confucianism into the curriculum. Education came under the total control of state, which meant, in effect, the Kuomintang party, via the Ministry of Education. Military and political classes on the Kuomintang's Three principles of the people were added. Textbooks, exams, degrees and educational instructors were all controlled by the state, as were all universities.\n\nChiang Ching-kuo, appointed as Kuomintang director of Secret Police in 1950, was educated in the Soviet Union, and initiated Soviet style military organization in the Republic of China Military, reorganizing and Sovietizing the political officer corps, surveillance, and Kuomintang party activities were propagated throughout the military. Opposed to this was Sun Li-jen, who was educated at the American Virginia Military Institute. Chiang Ching-kuo then arrested Sun Li-jen, charging him of conspiring with the American CIA of plotting to overthrow Chiang Kai-shek and the Kuomintang, Sun was placed under house arrest in 1955.\n\nIn 1895, Taiwan, including the Pescadores, became a Japanese colony, a concession by the Qing Empire after it lost the First Sino-Japanese War. After Japan's defeat at the end of World War II in 1945, General Order No. 1 instructed Japan, who surrendered to the US, to surrender its troops in Taiwan to the forces of the Republic of China Kuomintang.\n\nTaiwan was placed under the administrative control of the Republic of China by the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA), and the ROC put Taiwan under military occupation. Tensions between the local Taiwanese and mainlanders from mainland China increased in the intervening years culminating in a flashpoint on 27 February 1947 in Taipei when a dispute between a female cigarette vendor and an anti-smuggling officer triggered civil disorder and protests that would last for days. The uprising turned bloody and was shortly put down by the ROC Army in the February 28 Incident.\n\nFollowing the establishment of the People's Republic of China (PRC) on 1 October 1949, the commanders of the PRC People's Liberation Army believed that Kinmen and Matsu had to be taken before a final assault on Taiwan. KMT fought the Battle of Kuningtou and stopped the invasion. In 1950 Chiang took office in Taipei under the Temporary Provisions Effective During the Period of Communist Rebellion. The provision declared martial law in Taiwan and halted some democratic processes, including presidential and parliamentary elections, until the mainland could be recovered from the Communists. KMT estimated it would take 3 years to defeat the Communists. The slogan was \"prepare in the first year, start fighting in the second, and conquer in the third year.\" However, various factors, including international pressure, are believed to have prevented the KMT from militarily engaging the Communists full-scale. A cold war with a couple of minor military conflicts was resulted in the early years. The various government bodies previously in Nanjing were re-established in Taipei as the KMT-controlled government actively claimed sovereignty over all China. The Republic of China in Taiwan retained China's seat in the United Nations until 1971 .\n\nUntil the 1970s, KMT successfully pushed ahead with land reforms, developed the economy, implemented a democratic system in a lower level of the government, improved cross-Taiwan Strait relations, and created the Taiwan economic miracle. However KMT controlled the government under a one-party authoritarian state until reforms in the late 1970s through the 1990s. As a result of the February 28 Incident in 1947, Taiwanese people had to endure what is called the \"White Terror\", a KMT-led political repression. The ROC in Taiwan was once referred to synonymously with the KMT and known simply as \"Nationalist China\" after its ruling party. In the 1970s, the KMT began to allow for \"supplemental elections\" in Taiwan to fill the seats of the aging representatives in parliament. Although opposition parties were not permitted, Tangwai (or, \"outside the party\") representatives were tolerated. In the 1980s, the KMT focused on transforming the government from a one-party system to a multi-party democracy one and embracing \"Taiwanizing\". With the founding of the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) in 1986, the KMT started competing against the DPP in Parliamentary elections. In 1991, martial law ceased when President Lee Teng-Hui terminated the Temporary Provisions Effective During the Period of Communist Rebellion. All parties started to be allowed to compete at all levels of elections, including the presidential election. Lee Teng-hui, the ROC's first democratically elected President and the leader of the KMT during the 1990s, announced his advocacy of \"special state-to-state relations\" with the PRC. The PRC associated it with Taiwan independence.\n\nThe KMT faced a split in 1994 that led to the formation of the Chinese New Party, alleged to be a result of Lee's \"corruptive ruling style\". The New Party has, since the purging of Lee, largely reintegrated into KMT. A much more serious split in the party occurred as a result of the 2000 Presidential election. Upset at the choice of Lien Chan as the party's presidential nominee, former party Secretary-General James Soong launched an independent bid, which resulted in the expulsion of Soong and his supporters and the formation of the People's First Party (PFP). The KMT candidate placed third behind Soong in the elections. After the election, Lee's strong relationship with the opponent became apparent. In order to prevent defections to the PFP, Lien moved the party away from Lee's pro-independence policies and became more favorable toward Chinese reunification. This shift led to Lee's expulsion from the party and the formation of the Taiwan Solidarity Union.\n\nAs the ruling party on Taiwan, the KMT amassed a vast business empire of banks, investment companies, petrochemical firms, and television and radio stations, thought to have made it the world's richest political party, with assets once estimated to be around US$2–10 billion. Although this war chest appeared to help the KMT until the mid-1990s, it later led to accusations of corruption (see Black gold (politics)). After 2000, the KMT's financial holdings appeared to be more of a liability than a benefit, and the KMT started to divest its assets. However, the transactions were not disclosed and the whereabouts of the money earned from selling assets (if it has gone anywhere) is unknown. There were accusations in the 2004 presidential election that the KMT retained assets that were illegally acquired. Currently, there is a law proposed by the DPP in the Legislative Yuan to recover illegally acquired party assets and return them to the government; however, since the pan-Blue alliance, the KMT and its smaller partner PFP, control the legislature, it is very unlikely to be passed. The KMT also acknowledged that part of its assets were acquired through extra-legal means and thus promised to \"retro-endow\" them to the government. However, the quantity of the assets which should be classified as illegal are still under heated debate; DPP, in its capacity as ruling party from 2000–2008, claimed that there is much more that the KMT has yet to acknowledge. Also, the KMT actively sold assets under its title in order to quench its recent financial difficulties, which the DPP argues is illegal. Former KMT Chairman Ma Ying-Jeou's position is that the KMT will sell some of its properties at below market rates rather than return them to the government and that the details of these transactions will not be publicly disclosed.\n\nIn December 2003, then-KMT chairman (present chairman emeritus) and presidential candidate Lien Chan initiated what appeared to some to be a major shift in the party's position on the linked questions of Chinese reunification and Taiwan independence. Speaking to foreign journalists, Lien said that while the KMT was opposed to \"immediate independence,\" it did not wish to be classed as \"pro-reunificationist\" either.\n\nAt the same time, Wang Jin-pyng, speaker of the Legislative Yuan and the Pan-Blue Coalition's campaign manager in the 2004 presidential election, said that the party no longer opposed Taiwan's \"eventual independence.\" This statement was later clarified as meaning that the KMT opposes any immediate decision on unification and independence and would like to have this issue resolved by future generations. The KMT's position on the cross-strait relationship was redefined as hoping to remain in the current neither-independent-nor-united situation.\n\nIn 2005, then-party chairman Lien Chan announced that he was to leave his office. The two leading contenders for the position include Ma Ying-jeou and Wang Jin-pyng. On 5 April 2005, Taipei Mayor Ma Ying-jeou said he wished to lead the opposition Kuomintang with Wang Jin-pyng. On 16 July 2005, Ma was elected as KMT chairman in the first contested leadership in Kuomintang's 93-year history. Some 54 percent of the party's 1.04 million members cast their ballots. Ma Ying-jeou garnered 72.4 percent of vote share, or 375,056 votes, against Wang Jin-pyng's 27.6 percent, or 143,268 votes. After failing to convince Wang to stay on as a vice chairman, Ma named holdovers Wu Po-hsiung (吳伯雄), Chiang Pin-kung (江丙坤), and Lin Cheng-chi (林澄枝), as well as long-time party administrator and strategist John Kuan (關中), as vice-chairmen; all appointments were approved by a hand count of party delegates.\n\nThere has been a recent warming of relations between the pan-blue coalition and the PRC, with prominent members of both the KMT and PFP in active discussions with officials on the Mainland. In February 2004, it appeared that KMT had opened a campaign office for the Lien-Soong ticket in Shanghai targeting Taiwanese businessmen. However, after an adverse reaction in Taiwan, the KMT quickly declared that the office was opened without official knowledge or authorization. In addition, the PRC issued a statement forbidding open campaigning in the Mainland and formally stated that it had no preference as to which candidate won and cared only about the positions of the winning candidate.\n\nOn 28 March 2005, thirty members of the Kuomintang (KMT), led by KMT vice chairman Chiang Pin-kung, arrived in mainland China. This marked the first official visit by the KMT to the mainland since it was defeated by communist forces in 1949 (although KMT members including Chiang had made individual visits in the past). The delegates began their itinerary by paying homage to the revolutionary martyrs of the Tenth Uprising at Huanghuagang. They subsequently flew to the former ROC capital of Nanjing to commemorate Sun Yat-sen. During the trip KMT signed a 10-points agreement with the CPC. The opponents regarded this visit as the prelude of the third KMT-CPC cooperation. Weeks afterwards, in May, Chairman Lien Chan visited the mainland and met with Hu Jintao. No agreements were signed because Chen Shui-bian's government threatened to prosecute the KMT delegation for treason and violation of R.O.C. laws prohibiting citizens from collaborating with Communists.\n\nOn 13 February 2007, Ma was indicted by the Taiwan High Prosecutors Office on charges of allegedly embezzling approximately NT$11 million (US$339,000), regarding the issue of \"special expenses\" while he was mayor of Taipei. Shortly after the indictment, he submitted his resignation as chairman of the Kuomintang at the same press conference at which he formally announced his candidacy for President. Ma argued that it was customary for officials to use the special expense fund for personal expenses undertaken in the course of their official duties. In December 2007, Ma was acquitted of all charges and immediately filed suit against the prosecutors who are also appealing the acquittal.\n\n"}
{"id": "21918361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21918361", "title": "Honors music", "text": "Honors music\n\nThe honors music for a person, office or rank is music played on formal or ceremonial occasions in the presence of the person, office-holder, or rank-holder, especially by a military band. The head of state in many countries is honored with a prescribed piece of music; in some countries the national anthem serves this purpose, while others have a separate royal, presidential, or, historically, imperial anthem. Other officials may also have anthems, such as the vice-regal salute in several Commonwealth realms for the Governor-General, Governor, or Lieutenant Governor. Ruffles and flourishes may be played instead of, or preceding, honors music.\n\nCountries where the national anthem is also the royal anthem include Jamaica, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norfolk Island, Spain, the United Kingdom, Jordan, Brunei and Cambodia. Additionally, the royal anthems of both Denmark and New Zealand have co-official status as national anthem along with a separate national anthem.\n\nInstances of honors music other than the relevant national anthem include the following:\n"}
{"id": "17603008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17603008", "title": "Human Security Report Project", "text": "Human Security Report Project\n\nThe Human Security Report Project (HSRP) is a peace and conflict studies research group. The Project is presently based at Simon Fraser University's School for International Studies at Harbour Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, having formerly been based at the University of British Columbia's Liu Institute for Global Issues in the Human Security Centre.\n\nThe Project is known primarily for the \"Human Security Report 2005\", which provided evidence that, according to the Project's data and definitions, there had been a large decline in the number of wars, genocides, and international crises since the end of the Cold War. The reduction in armed conflict in recent history has been referred to as the Long Peace, and there is general agreement among experts that the frequency of war has declined since at least the 1950s, despite a widespread misperception that the world has become more dangerous.\n\nSubsequently, the Project published the \"Human Security Brief 2006\", updating the core global trend data from the 2005 \"Report\", and the \"Human Security Brief 2007\". The 2007 \"Brief\" demonstrated that there had been a sharp decline in the incidence of terrorist violence (measured in terms of numbers of fatalities) around the world. If fatalities from political violence against civilians perpetrated by non-state groups in Iraq are counted as deaths from terrorism, the decline dated mid-2007. This claim was disputed in a press release from the University of Maryland's National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START). However, START at that time only had incident data to 2004. Subsequent START reports confirmed the large decline in fatalities from terrorism in 2007. One problem with the START project's dataset is that it counts politically motivated killings of civilians in civil war by non-state actors as terrorism in some contexts, but not in others. In Iraq, for example, such killings are counted as acts of terrorism, but the very large number of comparable killings in Sub-Saharan Africa's civil wars in the 1990s are not. Subsequent to the publication of the 2007 \"Brief\", the incidence of global terrorism has again increased, with most of the increase being in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Further, the 2007 \"Brief\" suggested positive change in Sub-Saharan Africa's security landscape; the number of conflicts being waged in the region more than halved between 1999 and 2006.\n\nIn late October 2008, the Project published, in conjunction with the World Bank, the \"miniAtlas of Human Security\". This publication was produced in three languages and is an \"at-a-glance guide to global security issues\", using a selection of maps and graphics to illustrate security trends, and is part of the World Bank's \"miniAtlas\" series. There have been subsequent translations of the \"miniAtlas\" into Russian, Japanese, and Arabic.\n\nIn 2010, the Project launched the \"Human Security Report 2009/2010\" at the United Nations. Part I of the \"Report\" examines \"The Causes of Peace\" since the end of World War II. Part II examines \"The Shrinking Costs of War\", paying particular attention to \"indirect deaths\" from war-exacerbated disease and malnutrition. Part III reviews recent trends in organized violence around the world. A hard copy version of the \"Report\" was published by Oxford University Press early in 2011. The text of the \"Report\" is freely available online at www.hsrgroup.org.\n\nIn addition to its publications, the Project runs several free e-services available in a number of delivery formats:\n\n\nThe Project works closely with a number of the world's leading research groups in peace and conflict studies, including:\n\n\nIt has received funding from a number of governments, including:\n\n\nThe Project is a principal partner of the International Relations and Security Network.\n\nLack of robust conflict data remains a major problem with all attempts to track conflict numbers and fatality trends. The Uppsala Conflict Data Program's has an acknowledged tendency to undercount fatalities. But the tendency to undercount does not obscure trends, and both researchers and policymakers who focus on the causes of war and peace are more concerned with trends––are the number of wars/battle deaths increasing or decreasing?––than in absolute numbers. For truth and reconciliation commissions, the reverse is true. There are various methodologies that can be used to estimate war deaths––incident-based reporting like that undertaken by the Uppsala Conflict Data Program, nationwide retrospective mortality surveys like those undertaken in Iraq and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and censuses. Each has strengths and weaknesses. Uppsala's methodology is, however, the only one that permits timely annual updates for all conflict-affected countries. There are ongoing debates on the validity of data compiling and counting methodology. Part III of the \"Human Security Report 2009/2010\" contains a discussion of these debates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "291399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291399", "title": "Legislative assemblies of the Roman Republic", "text": "Legislative assemblies of the Roman Republic\n\nThe legislative assemblies of the Roman Republic were political institutions in the ancient Roman Republic. According to the contemporary historian Polybius, it was the people (and thus the assemblies) who had the final say regarding the election of magistrates, the enactment of Roman laws, the carrying out of capital punishment, the declaration of war and peace, and the creation (or dissolution) of alliances. Under the Constitution of the Roman Republic, the people (and thus the assemblies) held the ultimate source of sovereignty.\n\nSince the Romans used a form of direct democracy, citizens, and not elected representatives, voted before each assembly. As such, the citizen-electors had no power, other than to cast a vote. Each assembly was presided over by a single Roman Magistrate, and as such, it was the presiding magistrate who made all decisions on matters of procedure and legality. Ultimately, the presiding magistrate's power over the assembly was nearly absolute. The only check on that power came in the form of vetoes handed down by other magistrates.\n\nIn the Roman system of direct democracy, two primary types of gatherings were used to vote on legislative, electoral, and judicial matters. The first was the Assembly (\"comitia\"), which was a gathering that was deemed to represent the entire Roman people, even if it did not contain all of the Roman citizens or, like the \"comitia curiata\", excluded a particular class of Roman citizens (the plebs). The second was the Council (\"concilium\"), which was a gathering of citizens of a specific class. In contrast, the Convention was an unofficial forum for communication. Conventions were simply forums where Romans met for specific unofficial purposes, such as, for example, to hear a political speech. Voters always assembled first into Conventions to hear debates and conduct other business before voting, and then into Assemblies or Councils to actually vote.\n\nThere were no set dates to hold assemblies, but notice had to be given beforehand if the assembly was to be considered formal. Elections had to be announced 17 days before the election took place. Likewise, 17 days had to pass between the proposal of legislation and its enactment by an assembly. \nIn addition to the presiding magistrate, several additional magistrates were often present to act as assistants. There were also religious officials known as augurs either in attendance or on-call, who would be available to help interpret any signs from the gods (omens). On several known occasions, presiding magistrates used the claim of unfavorable omens as an excuse to suspend a session that was not going the way they wanted. Any decision made by a presiding magistrate could be vetoed by a magistrate known as a \"Plebeian Tribune\". In addition, decisions made by presiding magistrates could also be vetoed by higher-ranking magistrates.\n\nOn the day of the vote, the electors first assembled into their conventions for debate and campaigning. In the Conventions, the electors were not sorted into their respective units (\"curia\", \"centuries\" or \"tribes\"). Speeches from private citizens were only heard if the issue to be voted upon was a legislative or judicial matter. If the purpose of the ultimate vote was for an election, no speeches from private citizens were heard, and instead, the candidates for office used the Convention to campaign. During the Convention, the bill to be voted upon was read to the assembly by an officer known as a \"Herald\". Then, if the assembly was composed of Tribes, the order of the vote had to be determined. A Plebeian Tribune could use his veto against pending legislation until the point when the order of the vote was determined.\n\nThe electors were then told to break up the Convention and assemble into the formal Assembly or Council. The electors voted by placing a pebble or written ballot into an appropriate jar. The baskets that held the votes were watched by specific officers, who then counted the ballots, and reported the results to the presiding magistrate. The majority of votes in any Curia, Tribe, or Century decided how that Curia, Tribe, or Century voted. Each Curia, Tribe, or Century received one vote, regardless of how many electors each Tribe or Century held. Once a majority of Curiae, Tribes, or Centuries voted in the same way on a given measure, the voting ended, and the matter was decided.\n\nIf a law was passed in violation of proper procedures (such as failing to wait 17 days before voting on a law), the Senate could declare the law nonbinding.\n\nThe \"Curiate Assembly\" (\"comitia curiata\") was the principal assembly during the first two decades of the Roman Republic. The Curiate Assembly was organized as an Assembly, and not as a Council even though only patricians were members. During these first decades, the People of Rome were organized into thirty units called \"Curiae\". The Curiae were ethnic in nature, and thus were organized on the basis of the early Roman family, or, more specifically, on the basis of the thirty original \"Patrician\" (aristocratic) clans. The Curiae assembled into the Curiate Assembly, for legislative, electoral, and judicial purposes. The Curiate Assembly passed laws, elected \"Consuls\" (the only elected magistrates at the time), and tried judicial cases. Consuls always presided over the assembly.\n\nShortly after the founding of the republic, most of the powers of the Curiate Assembly were transferred to the \"Centuriate Assembly\" and the \"Tribal Assembly\". While it then fell into disuse, it did retain some theoretical powers, most importantly, the power to ratify elections of the top-ranking Roman Magistrates (Consuls and Praetors) by passing the statute that gave them their legal command authority, the \"lex curiata de imperio\". In practice, however, they actually received this authority from the Centuriate Assembly (which formally elected them), and as such, this functioned as nothing more than a reminder of Rome's regal heritage. Other acts that the Curiate Assembly voted on were mostly symbolic and usually in the affirmative. At one point, possibly as early as 218 BC, the Curiate Assembly's thirty Curia were abolished, and replaced with thirty lictors, one from each of the original Patrician clans. Since the Curia had always been organized on the basis of the Roman family, the Curiate Assembly actually retained jurisdiction over clan matters even after the fall of the Roman Republic in 27 BC. Under the presidency of the Pontifex Maximus, it witnessed wills and ratified adoptions, inaugurated certain priests, and transferred citizens from Patrician class to Plebeian class (or vice versa). In 44 BC, for example, it ratified the will of Julius Caesar, and with it Caesar's adoption of his nephew Gaius Octavian (the future Roman emperor Augustus) as his son and heir. However, this might not have been the \"comitia curiata\" but instead the \"comitia calata\".\n\nThe \"Centuriate Assembly\" (\"comitia centuriata\" or \"Army Assembly\") of the Roman Republic was originally the democratic assembly of the Roman soldiers. The Centuriate Assembly organized the Roman citizens into classes, which were defined by a means test and were economic in nature. The Roman army was divided into units called \"Centuries\", and these gathered into the Centuriate Assembly for legislative, electoral, and judicial purposes. However, since the number of centuries in each class was fixed, centuries could contain far more than 100 men. Only this assembly could declare war or elect the highest-ranking Roman Magistrates: \"Consuls\", \"Praetors\" and \"Censors\". The Centuriate Assembly could also pass a statute that granted constitutional command authority to Consuls and Praetors, and Censorial powers to Censors. In addition, the Centuriate Assembly served as the highest court of appeal in certain judicial cases, and ratified the results of the Census. While the voters in this assembly wore white undecorated togas and were unarmed, while taking part in the Assembly they were classified as soldiers, and as such they could not meet inside of the physical boundary of the city of Rome. The president of the Centuriate Assembly was usually a Consul (although sometimes a Praetor). Only Consuls (the highest-ranking of all Roman Magistrates) could preside over the Centuriate Assembly during elections because the higher-ranking Consuls were always elected together with the lower-ranking Praetors. Once every five years, after the new Consuls for the year took office, they presided over the Centuriate Assembly as it elected the two Censors.\n\nThe Centuriate Assembly was supposedly founded by the legendary Roman King Servius Tullius, less than a century before the founding of the Roman Republic in 509 BC. As such, the original design of the Centuriate Assembly was known as the \"Servian organization\". Under this organization, the assembly was supposedly designed to mirror the Roman army during the time of the Roman Kingdom. Soldiers in the Roman army were classified on the basis of the amount of property that they owned, and as such, soldiers with more property had more influence than soldiers with less property. The 193 Centuries in the assembly under the Servian Organization were each divided into one of three different grades: the officer class, the enlisted class, and a class of unarmed adjuncts. The officer class was grouped into eighteen Centuries. The enlisted class was grouped into five separate property classes, for a total of 170 Centuries. The unarmed soldiers were divided into the final five Centuries. Of five enlisted classes, the wealthiest controlled 80 of the votes. During a vote, all of the Centuries of one class had to vote before the Centuries of the next lower class could vote. The first candidate to reach a majority of 97 votes was victorious. When a measure or candidate received 97 votes, a majority of the centuries, the voting ended, and as such, many lower ranking Centuries rarely if ever had a chance to actually vote. Combined the 18 equites and the 80 centuries of the first property class had one more century than needed, and a unanimous vote from the elite would thus elect a candidate.\n\nIn 241 BC, the assembly was reorganized, though the exact details are uncertain. Some sources have a new total of 373 Centuries, but Cicero still writes of 193 centuries in his era, and most scholars still use that number It known that the first property class was reduced form 80 to 70 centuries, and the order of voting was changed so that the first class would go first, and be followed by the equites.\n\nThe lowest ranking Century in the Centuriate Assembly was the fifth Century (called the \"proletarii\") of the unarmed adjunct class. This Century was the only Century composed of soldiers who had no property, and since it was always the last Century to vote, it never had any real influence on elections. In 107 BC, in response to high unemployment and a severe manpower shortage in the army, the general and Consul Gaius Marius reformed the organization of the army, and allowed individuals with no property to enlist. As a consequence of these reforms, this fifth unarmed Century came to encompass almost the entire Roman army. This mass disenfranchisement of most of the soldiers in the army played an important role in the chaos that led to the fall of the Roman Republic in 27 BC.\n\nDuring his dictatorship from 82 BC until 80 BC, Lucius Cornelius Sulla restored the old Servian Organization to this assembly. Sulla died in 78 BC, and in 70 BC, the Consuls Pompey Magnus and Marcus Licinius Crassus repealed Sulla's constitutional reforms, including his restoration of the Servian Organization to this assembly. Thus, they restored the newer organization that had originated in 241 BC. The organization of the Centuriate Assembly was not changed again until its powers were all transferred to the Roman Senate by the first Roman Emperor, Augustus, after the fall of the Roman Republic in 27 BC.\n\nThe \"Tribal Assembly\" (\"comitia populi tributa\") of the Roman Republic was the democratic assembly of Roman citizens. The Tribal Assembly was organized as an Assembly, and not as a Council. During the years of the Roman Republic, citizens were organized on the basis of thirty-five Tribes which included patricians and plebeians. The Tribes gathered into the Tribal Assembly for legislative, electoral, and judicial purposes. The president of the Tribal Assembly was usually either a \"Consul\" (the highest ranking Roman Magistrate) or a \"Praetor\" (the second-highest ranking Roman Magistrate). The Tribal Assembly elected three different magistrates: \"Quaestors\", \"Curule Aediles\", and \"Military Tribunes\". The Tribal Assembly also had the power to try judicial cases.\n\nThe thirty-five Tribes were not ethnic or kinship groups, but rather a generic division into which Roman citizens were distributed. When the Tribes were created the divisions were geographical, similar to modern Parliamentary constituencies. However, since one joined the same Tribe that one's father belonged to, the geographical distinctions were eventually lost. The order that the 35 Tribes voted in was selected randomly by lot. The order was not chosen at once, and after each Tribe had voted, a lot was used to determine which Tribe should vote next. The first Tribe selected was usually the most important Tribe, because it often decided the matter. It was believed that the order of the lot was chosen by the Gods, and thus, that the position held by the early voting Tribes was the position of the Gods. Once a majority of Tribes had voted the same way, voting ended.\n\nThe \"Plebeian Council\" (\"concilium plebis\") was the principal popular gathering of the Roman Republic. As the name suggests, the Plebeian Council was organized as a Council, and not as an Assembly. It functioned as a gathering through which the Plebeians (commoners) could pass laws, elect magistrates, and try judicial cases. This council had no political power until the offices of \"Plebeian Tribune\" and \"Plebeian Aedile\" were created in 494 BC, due to the \"Plebeian Secession\" that year.\n\nAccording to legend, the Roman King Servius Tullius enacted a series of constitutional reforms in the 6th century BC. One of these reforms resulted in the creation of a new organizational unit with which to divide citizens. This unit, the \"Tribe\", was based on geography rather than family, and was created to assist in future reorganizations of the army. In 471 BC, a law was passed which allowed the Plebeians to begin organizing by Tribe. Before this point, they had organized on the basis of the \"Curia\". The only difference between the Plebeian Council after 471 BC and the ordinary \"Tribal Assembly\" (which also organized on the basis of the Tribes) was that the Tribes of the Plebeian Council only included Plebeians, whereas the Tribes of the Tribal Assembly included both Plebeians and Patricians.\n\nThe Plebeian Council elected two 'Plebeian Magistrates', the \"Plebeian Tribunes\" and the \"Plebeian Aediles\". Usually the Plebeian Tribune presided over the assembly, although the Plebeian Aedile sometimes did as well. Originally, statutes passed by the Plebeian Council (\"Plebiscites\") only applied to Plebeians. However, in 449 BC, a statute of an Assembly was passed which gave Plebiscites the full force of law over all Romans (Plebeians and Patricians). It was not until 287 BC, however, that the last mechanism which allowed the Roman Senate to veto acts of the Plebeian Council was revoked. After this point, almost all domestic legislation came out of the Plebeian Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15839429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15839429", "title": "List of terrorism films", "text": "List of terrorism films\n\nThis is a list of terrorism films based \non actual and fictional events.\n\nThese films are about or based on actual events, they are either live-action and/or documentary.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese films are about fictional events. They are selected on the criteria based on either (1) the plots involve the use of actual or fictitious terror groups and events, or (2) the overall storyline incorporates the essence of a terror attack. (i.e. \"Goldfinger\" \"(1964)\" was not a terror attack on Ft. Knox, but rather a means for financial gains. \"Thunderball (1965)\", although is also based on financial gains, the plot involved the use of ransom and terror to achieve this goal.)\n"}
{"id": "23490033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23490033", "title": "Lok Adalat", "text": "Lok Adalat\n\nLok Adalat (People's Court) is one of the Alternative dispute resolution mechanisms in India, it is a forum where cases pending or at pre litigation stage in a court of law are settled. They have been given statutory status under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. Under this Act, the award (decision) made by the Lok Adalats is deemed to be a decree of a civil court and is final and binding on all parties and no appeal against such an award lies before any court of law. If the parties are not satisfied with the award of the Lok Adalat (though there is no provision for an appeal against such an award), they are free to initiate litigation by approaching the court of appropriate jurisdiction.\n\nLok Adalat is very effective in settlement of money claims. Disputes like partition suits, damages and matrimonial cases can also be easily settled before Lok Adalat, as the scope for compromise through an approach of give and take is high in these cases. A Lok Adalat can take up civil cases (including marriage, and family disputes) and compoundable criminal cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "1675510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1675510", "title": "Lucjan Żeligowski", "text": "Lucjan Żeligowski\n\nLucjan Żeligowski (; 1865–1947) was a Polish general, politician, military commander and veteran of World War I, the Polish-Soviet War and World War II. He is mostly remembered for his role in Żeligowski's Mutiny and as head of a short-lived Republic of Central Lithuania.\n\nLucjan Żeligowski was born on October 17, 1865, in Oszmiana, in the Russian Empire (modern Ashmiany in Belarus) to Polish parents Gustaw Żeligowski and Władysława Żeligowska née Traczewska. Before the Partitions of Poland in the late 18th century the town was part of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. After graduating from military officers' school located in Riga (1885), Żeligowski joined the Imperial Russian Army, where he served at various staff and command posts. He then married Tatiana Pietrowna and had two children.\nŻeligowski fought in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-1905. During the First World War he served as a lieutenant colonel and commanding officer of an Imperial Russian rifle regiment.\n\nAfter the February Revolution of 1917, Żeligowski became one of the organizers of the Polish Army in the former Russian Empire. Initially commander of an infantry regiment in the ranks of the Polish 1st Corps, he was quickly promoted and given command over a brigade. In 1918 he started the creation of a Polish unit in the area of Kuban, which eventually became the 4th Polish Rifle Division. As part of the Polish Army, his unit fought alongside the Denikin's Whites in the Russian Civil War. In October of the same year he became the Commander in Chief of all the Polish units fighting in Russia.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the Polish-Bolshevik War and the defeat of Denikin, Żeligowski's unit was ordered to retreat to Romanian Bessarabia, where it took part in defence of the border against Bolshevik raids. Finally, in April 1919, the division was withdrawn to the newly established Second Polish Republic, where it was incorporated into the Polish Army and renamed to Polish 10th Infantry Division.\n\nDuring the war against the Bolshevist Russia, Żeligowski, a personal friend of Polish Marshal Józef Piłsudski, was quickly promoted to general and given the command over an operational group of his name, composed of his 10th division and additional units, mostly of partisan origin. As such, he soon became the commanding officer of the entire \"Lithuanian-Belarusian Front\", operating in the area of Polesie and the Pinsk Marshes. During the Battle of Warsaw in 1920 his unit was attached to the 3rd Polish Army and took part in the pursuit of fleeing Bolshevik and Soviet forces at the Battle of the Niemen.\n\nIn October 1920, Żeligowski, a native of historical lands of Lithuania, was chosen to command the 1st Lithuanian-Belarusian Infantry Division, composed mainly of P.O.W. members, volunteers and partisans from the territory of modern Belarus and Lithuania. On October 8, 1920, after a staged coup, he defected with his unit and took control over the city of Wilno (modern-day Vilnius) and its area. The coup, named after him, would be remembered as the defining moments of his life. On October 12 he proclaimed independence of the said area as Republic of Central Lithuania, with Wilno as its capital. Initially a \"de facto\" military dictator, after the parliamentary elections he passed his powers to the newly elected parliament, which in turn decided to submit the area to Poland.\n\nAfter the annexation of Central Lithuania to Poland, Żeligowski continued his service in the Polish Army. Promoted to three-star general in 1923, he served as an \"army inspector\", or a commander of a military district of the capital city of Warsaw. In 1925 he also became the Polish Minister of Military Affairs. Ousted by Piłsudski's coup d'état (the May Coup), he was soon returned to the post. He retired the following year and settled in his family manor in Andrzejewo near Wilno.\n\nIn 1930 he published a book containing his memoirs of the Polish-Bolshevik War named \"War of 1920: Memories and thoughts\" (\"Wojna w roku 1920. Wspomnienia i rozważania\"). He also wrote numerous articles on the conflicts of early 20th century for a variety of Polish newspapers. In 1935 he was elected a member of parliament and remained in the Sejm until the outbreak of World War II in 1939.\n\nDuring the Invasion of Poland, Żeligowski volunteered for the Polish Armed Forces, but was not accepted due to his old age (he was 74 at that time) and poor health. Nevertheless, he served as an advisor to the command of the Polish southern front. After the Polish defeat, he evaded being captured by the Germans and the Soviets and managed to reach France, where he joined the Polish Government in Exile headed by General Władysław Sikorski. An active member of the \"Polish National Council\", an advisory body, he escaped to London after the French defeat in 1940.\n\nAfter the end of Second World War Żeligowski declared he would return to Poland, but he suddenly died on July 9, 1947, in London. His body was brought back to Poland, and Żeligowski was buried in the Powązki Military Cemetery in Warsaw.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4350399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4350399", "title": "Man of Peace", "text": "Man of Peace\n\nThe title Man of Peace was created in 1999 by the annual World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates in Rome. The purpose of the award is to recognize individuals who \"from personalities from the world of culture and entertainment who have stood up for human rights and for the spread of the principles of Peace and Solidarity in the world, made an outstanding contribution to international social justice and peace\".\n\nAn initiative by former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, himself a winner of a Nobel Peace Prize, the award is presented in Rome's Campidoglio (Capitoline Hill) by President Gorbachev, Walter Veltroni, Mayor of Rome, and the Nobel Peace Prize Laureates attending the annual summit meeting. \n\nIn its early years the award was referred to as both the \"Man for Peace\" in Europe and \"Man of Peace\" in the United States. In 2006 its title was officially changed to \"Man of Peace\", also \"Peace Summit Award\". \n\n\nIn addition, the conference also awarded the \"Peace Summit Award for Social Activism\" to \"associations which have distinguished themselves for their outstanding contribution to international peace and social justice\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25904520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25904520", "title": "May First/People Link", "text": "May First/People Link\n\nMay First/People Link (MF/PL) is a non-profit membership organization that uses mutual aid to provide Internet services, such as web hosting to progressive organizations and individuals. Founded in 1995 and based in New York City, MF/PL is one of the Internet's oldest progressive organizations. A member of Association for Progressive Communications, MF/PL directors, leaders, and members agree upon principles of progressive use of technology, outlined by a Statement of Unity.\n\nFrom the MF/PL website:\n\n...an organization that redefines the concept of \"Internet Service Provider\" in a collective, progressive and collaborative way. The members of May First/People Link are like a coop: we pay dues, buy equipment and then we all use that equipment as we need to for websites, email, email lists, and just about everything else we do on the Internet...\nMay First/People Link, Local 1180 CWA AFL-CIO members, was formed from the merge between two progressive providers in 2005. People Link began providing organizations with hosting in 1995. May First Technology Collective supported progressive organizations' technology needs in 1999. MF/PL's history as one of the world's oldest and largest politically progressive Information and communication technologies (ICTs) began in support of alternative media during the years leading up to the anti-globalization movement.\n\nThe current co-directors of May First/People Link are Alfredo Lopez and Jamie McClelland. Founding members and other members of MF/PL leadership are represented by organizations including The Praxis Project, NACLA, Progressive Technology Project, and The Brecht Forum.\n\nNotable MF/PL members include The Yes Men, Independent Media Centers, Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting, and \"Left Turn\" magazine. Over 500 members represent organizations such as food cooperatives, indigenous networks, grassroots organizations, unions, and schools.\n\nMF/PL organized collaborative technology for the 2009 World Social Forum in Belem, Brazil. For the United States Social Forum, MF/PL was included in the leadership of technology organizing for Atlanta, Georgia in 2007 and National Planning Committee members for the Information, Communications, and Technology working group leading up to Detroit, Michigan's event in 2010.\n\nProtecting fair use and free speech online against the DMCA together with the Electronic Frontier Foundation is essential for its hundreds of members' rights to organize online.\n\nCollaborative Democracy software was written for a workshop at the USSF in 2007 on the topic of Internet Bill of Rights. It has engaged many hundreds of people from all over the world to participate interactively and simultaneously on topics such as economic rights, technology principles, and participatory governance. It was performed simultaneously in Guatemala City and New York City during the Social Forum of the Americas in 2008, and in four countries, between youth, in Guatemala, Quebec, New York, and Brazil for the 2009 WSF.\n\nMF/PL is a community member of Drupal website development and fully supports the use of Free and Open Source Software.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4447641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4447641", "title": "Michel Roussin", "text": "Michel Roussin\n\nMichel Roussin (born May 3, 1939 in Rabat, Morocco) was the chief of staff of Alexandre de Marenches, who directed the SDECE French secret service until the May 1981 election of François Mitterrand as President of France. Michel Roussin has also been chief of staff of Jacques Chirac when he was mayor of Paris and also when he was prime minister.\n\nRoussin then became minister of cooperation under Edouard Balladur's government. However, he had to resign, in accordance with the so-called Balladur jurisprudence because of suspected involvement in various affairs concerning the illegal funding of Chirac's Rally for the Republic (RPR) party. Jailed for a time, Roussin was afterwards acquitted. However, on October 26, 2005, he was condemned to four years of prison on probation and a 50,000 EUR fine for his role in the corruption affair concerning high schools in the Paris region.\n\nNamed to the direction of SAE International, a construction firm linked to Paribas bank, Roussin in 1997 followed this function with his presidency of the Africa committee of the MEDEF, the French employers organization; the \"francophonie\" delegation at Paris's municipal hall. He also presented himself as candidate to the presidency of the Elf Aquitaine oil company. Roussin is also allegedly a member of the masonic lodge \"Grande Loge Nationale Française\" (GLNF).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32570823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32570823", "title": "Ministry of Health (Serbia)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Serbia)\n\nThe Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia () is the ministry in the Government of Serbia which is in the charge of healthcare. The current minister is Zlatibor Lončar, in office since 27 April 2014.\n\nThe Ministry was established on 11 February 1991.\n\nThere are several agencies and institutions that operate within the scope of the Ministry:\n\nPolitical Party:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44437125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44437125", "title": "Ministry of Health and Public Hygiene (Guinea)", "text": "Ministry of Health and Public Hygiene (Guinea)\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Public Hygiene is a ministry of the government of Guinea, with its headquarters in the capital city Conakry.\n\n, the Minister of Health is Colonel Remy Lamah.\n\n"}
{"id": "57340747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57340747", "title": "Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism (Austria)", "text": "Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism (Austria)\n\nIn Austrian politics, the Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism (German: \"Bundesministerium für Nachhaltigkeit und Tourismus\" or \"BMNT\", although often called \"Nachhaltigkeitsministerium\" )\nis the ministry in charge of agricultural policy, forestry, hunting, fishing, viticulture and wine law, environmental protection, energy, mining, animal welfare, and the tourism industry. \nThe Ministry was first created in 2000 through a merger of the Ministry of Agriculture (\"Landwirtschaftsministerium\") and the Ministry of Environment (\"Umweltministerium\"); it gained responsibility for the energy sector, mining, and tourism under the Kurz cabinet in 2018.\n\nThe current Minister of Sustainability and Tourism is Elisabeth Köstinger.\n\nThe Ministry's earliest precursor was the Cisleithanian Ministry of Agriculture (\"Ackerbauministerium\"), created in 1867. In additional to agriculture, the Ministry was responsible for regulating hunting, fishing, and hydraulic engineering, excluding hydraulic engineering of military importance.\nThe organization was renamed to Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (\"Ministerium für Land- und Forstwirtschaft\") in 1918 and was briefly called a department (\"Staatsamt\") rather than a ministry during the two periods of constitutional transition following the two World Wars. Except for the name, however, the Ministry survived mostly in its original form until 2000.\n\nIn 1972, Austria established the Ministry of Health and the Environment (\"Ministerium für Gesundheit und Umweltschutz\", usually called \"Gesundheitsministerium\" or \"Umweltministerium\" for short). In 1987, family affairs were added to its portfolio, turning it into the Ministry of Environment, Youth and Family Affairs (\"Ministerium für Umwelt, Jugend und Familie\") \n\nIn 2000, the two ministries were combined to form the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management (\"Ministerium für Land- und Forstwirtschaft, Umwelt und Wasserwirtschaft\", although often called \"Lebensministerium\"). Responsibility for family affairs was moved to the Ministry of Social Affairs (\"Sozialministerium\") at the time.\n\nWhen the Kurz cabinet took office in December 2017, the ministry was put in charge of the energy sector, mining, and tourism in addition to its existing powers and duties; it also gained its current designation.\nThe additional responsibilities created an institution with exceptionally broad authority; the new ministry has been described as a \"super ministry\" (\"Superministerium\") and a \"behemoth\" (\"Riese\"); the cabinet had difficulties finding a new name that would adequately reflect its extensive purview, the present minister has noted.\nThe move was not completely uncontroversial.\n\nAs of January 2018, the Ministry is charged with regulating, supervising, or managing, respectively:\n\nAs of May 2018, the ministry consists of the Minister and her personal staff (\"Kabinett\"), the office of the general secretary, a special coordination department, and six numbered regular departments (\"Sektionen\"):\n\nThe Minister and her staff are political appointees; the general secretary and the section heads are career civil servants.\n\n"}
{"id": "27306436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27306436", "title": "Ministry of Tourism, Culture and Sport (Ontario)", "text": "Ministry of Tourism, Culture and Sport (Ontario)\n\nThe Ministry of Tourism, Culture and Sport was created on January 18, 2010 when the Ministry of Culture and the Minstry of Tourism were combined under one ministry. Sport was added to the portfolio in 2011. It is responsible for the development of policies and programs and the operation of programs related to tourism, arts, cultural industries, heritage sectors and libraries, in Ontario. The Ministry works in partnership with its agencies, attractions, boards and commissions and the private sector to maximize the economic, cultural and social contributions of its agencies and attractions, while promoting the tourism industry and preserving Ontario's culture and heritage. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe ministry structure includes:\n\nCultural agencies overseen by the ministry include:\n\nTourism agencies and attractions overseen by the ministry include:\n\n"}
{"id": "27975662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27975662", "title": "Mungyeong Massacre", "text": "Mungyeong Massacre\n\nThe Mungyeong Massacre (, Hanja: 聞慶良民虐殺事件) was a massacre conducted by 2nd and 3rd\nplatoon, 7th company, 3rd battalion, 25th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division of the South Korean Army on 24 December 1949 of 86 to 88 unarmed citizens in Mungyeong, North Gyeongsang district of South Korea, all of whom were civilians and a majority of whom were children and elderly people. The victims included 32 children. The victims were massacred because they were suspected communist supporters or collaborators.However, the South Korean government blamed the crime on communist guerrillas for decades.\n\nOn 26 June 2006, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of South Korea concluded that the massacre was committed by the South Korean Army. However, a South Korean local court decided that charging the South Korean government with the massacre was barred by statute of limitations, as the five-year prescription ended in December 1954. On 10 February 2009, the South Korean high court also dismissed the victim's family complaint. In June 2011, the Supreme Court of South Korea decided that the South Korean government should compensate victims of the inhumane crimes it had committed regardless of the deadline to make the claim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28892136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28892136", "title": "National Agrarian Party", "text": "National Agrarian Party\n\nThe National Agrarian Party ( or \"Partidul Național-Agrarian\", PNA) was a right-wing agrarian party active in Romania during the early 1930s. Established and led by poet Octavian Goga, it was originally a schism from the more moderate People's Party, espousing national conservatism, monarchism, agrarianism, antisemitism, and Germanophilia; Goga was also positively impressed by fascism, but there is disagreement in the scholarly community as to whether the PNA was itself fascist. Its antisemitic rhetoric was also contrasted by the PNA's acceptance of some Jewish members, including Tudor Vianu and Henric Streitman. The group was generally suspicious of Romania's other ethnic minorities, but in practice accepted members and external collaborators of many ethnic backgrounds, including the Romani Gheorghe A. Lăzăreanu-Lăzurică.\n\nThe National Agrarianist economic and social program rested on the protection of smallholders, with echoes of dirigisme and promises of debt relief. It was strongly opposed to the more left-wing National Peasants' Party, describing it as corrupt and denouncing its autonomist-regionalist tendencies. In Parliament, PNA representatives, largely inherited from the People's Party, collaborated mostly with two other anti-establishment groups: the Georgist Liberals and the Lupist Peasantists. The PNA was able to absorb some National Peasantist sections, primarily in Bucharest and Transylvania.\n\nThe PNA registered its best result nationally in the December 1933 election, when it took 4.1% of the vote. Despite its relative insignificance, its leader Goga was often perceived as a likely contender for the office of Prime Minister. The PNA had contacts in Nazi Germany, who regarded it as a political ally. While cautious about the Nazis' take on international politics, Goga traveled to Berlin in late 1933, meeting Adolf Hitler and returning as an enthusiastic admirer. Moving closer to the far-right and abandoning his own membership in the Romanian Freemasonry, Goga sought alliances with the more radical movements. The PNA tried but failed to unite with the Iron Guard and the Romanian Front, finally merging with the slightly more powerful National-Christian Defense League in July 1935. \n\nThe resulting National Christian Party offered a venue for conservative antisemites with fascist sympathies, but was rejected by PNA moderates, as well as by some of the League's radicals. A splinter group, led by Ion Al. Vasilescu-Valjean and centered on Romanați County, continued to call itself PNA, surviving to at least 1937.\n\nThe party emerged with a split in the more mainstream People's Party (PP), which was led by General Alexandru Averescu. This followed a major dispute between Averescu and Goga, prompted by the latter's unconditional support for Romania's authoritarian King, Carol II. Historian Adolf Minuț argues that Carol personally intervened to create a rift between the two men, this being one of a \"web of Carlist machinations\" to isolate his constitutionalist adversaries. The same is noted by memoirist Vasile Netea, who describes Carol as performing \"scissiparity\" on the old parties. In January 1932, Goga had vaguely announced his bid for the PP chairmanship, while also hinting that he was prepared to leave with his partisans if his candidacy were to be rejected. On March 3, Averescu formally denounced Goga's maneuvers in a circular letter to regional affiliates, noting that a conspiracy was in place to break up the PP. In response, Goga accused Averescu of tarnishing the crown's prestige. \n\nThe split also consecrated the independence of Goga's faction of the PP, which was also situated on the extreme of Romanian nationalism, with \"some sympathies toward fascism\". However, the new group was also able to absorb more moderate sections of the PP, leaving Averescu's group severely weakened. Averescu and his colleague, Grigore Trancu-Iași, fought back by asking for all dissidents still holding seats in the Assembly of Deputies to be deposed. This proposal was eventually defeated by a vote, during which the National Liberal Party voted in Goga's favor.\n\nGoga's party originated with a PP congress at Enescu restaurant on March 12, attended by 45 of 65 sections, which proclaimed Goga as People's Party chairman. By March 21, Averescu was able to regain control over most PP chapters, though he lost all presence in places such as Argeș, Cluj, and Mehedinți. Following this confrontation, Goga announced he would take on the \"painful task\" of leaving Averescu's group. As noted by scholar Armin Heinen, the National Agrarians' genesis coincided with the parallel rise of the Nazi Party in Weimar Germany: the PNA began organizing during Weimar's presidential election, in which Adolf Hitler came second. \n\nGoga's \"general staff\" included former minister Ion Petrovici, alongside Ion Al. Vasilescu-Valjean and C. Brăescu, who had been Vice Presidents of the Deputies' Assembly. Three other prominent Averescu supporters, Leon Scridon, Silviu Dragomir and Ioan Lupaș, also joined Goga during his departure. Early defectors also included a large part of the PP eminences in Transylvania and the Banat: Eugen P. Barbul, Sebastian Bornemisa, Laurian Gabor, and Petru Nemoianu. This remained \"the most painful\" of all schisms endured by the PP. On April 10, 1932, this dissidence held its congress at Rio Cinema, Bucharest. Its first presidium included Lupaș, General Constantin Iancovescu, Stan Ghițescu, Ilie Rădulescu, and Iancu Isvoranu; Goga was reconfirmed as People's Party chairman, before the party changed names. The \"PNA\" name was adopted hours later, following a motion submitted by deputy D. D. Burileanu—having been first submitted for discussion a week earlier, during a more private meeting of party leaders. The group registered as its electoral symbol \"two dots within a circumference\", sometimes described as a circle with \"two eyes\". Whether intentionally or not, this symbol closely resembled the circle used by a more democratic agrarian group, the National Peasants' Party (PNȚ). Transylvanian defectors from the PNȚ initially organized some of the PNA branches, but, in June 1932, returned to their old party. More dedicated support came from the former PNȚ chapters in Ilfov County and the \"Black\" (northeastern) sector of Bucharest, which were absorbed into Goga's new movement. \n\nPNA cadres included four important figures in Romania's commercial and industrial life, who, as Netea writes, were especially treasured by Goga. These were Ghițescu, Tilică Ioanid, I. D. Enescu, and Leon Gigurtu. The group also reached out of its PP constituency, and had traction among people not previously involved in party politics, such as Virgil Molin, a journalist and president of the Craiova chamber of labor. Also joining the PNA were the literary critic Tudor Vianu and his brother, the essayist Alexandru Vianu, alongside poet Sandu Tudor and philosopher Alexandru Mironescu. \"Țara Noastră\", put out from Transylvania by Ion Gorun, endured as the central party organ, with another party newspaper of the same name appearing at Buzău. While establishing itself regionally, Goga's party took over or established several regional newspapers: \"Cuvântul Poporului\", put out by Elie Mărgeanu of Sibiu; \"Agrarul Vâlcei\", published by Dumitru Zeana in Râmnicu Vâlcea; \"Cârma Vremii\" of Iași and \"Chemarea\" of Vaslui; as well as two sheets in Brăila and Constanța, both named \"Brazda Nouă\".\n\nAs Heinen notes, the PNA was one of several groups channeling popular discontent following the Great Depression; it was also the most authentic, and a \"remarkable force.\" Historian Stanley G. Payne describes the splinter group as authoritarian nationalist and \"rightist\", or \"rather more overtly right radical\" than Mihail Manoilescu's own dissident faction. The issue of its labeling has caused some disputes in the community of experts. Nicholas Nagy-Talavera viewed Goga as a \"bourgeois fascist\", but his assessment was challenged by Heinen, according to whom the PNA's \"radical nationalism\" was \"entirely devoid of that revolutionary pathos which set apart all the fascist parties.\" Overall, \"too many PNA members were still tied to the People's Party directives in both manners and ideas of political combat.\" However, according to scholar Irina Livezeanu, Goga was in the process of migrating \"across the conservative-radical divide\". \n\nWhile reaching out to the far-right, the PNA was also staunchly monarchist—according to Heinen, Goga was a \"national conservative\" among the \"Carlists\". The National Agrarians adopted \"Dumnezeu, Patrie, Rege\" (\"God, Fatherland, King\") as their slogan, a rallying cry already associated with Goga before the party's formation. The group's rejection of democracy had its roots in Goga's 1927 book, \"Mustul care fierbe\" (\"The Frothing Must\"), which argued that the masses needed a \"moral eminence\" to \"inspire in them tranquility and safety.\" The PNA suggested modifying Romania's Constitution of 1923, reducing Parliament to an \"orderly and useful instrument\", reformed around a corporative representation.\n\nIn time, the PNA adopted another slogan: \"Rod mult, bun și cu preț\" (\"More, better, valuable bearings\"). This notion reflected its commitment to an agrarian economy, which Goga identified as the core of Romania's potential for export, in tandem with the Romanianization of labor and capital. Goga's agrarianism rested on the notion that peasants were a unifying factor, their shared culture transcending regional divisions. In 1935, Valjean similarly proclaimed that all classes were \"subordinate to the plowmen\". His PNA intended to make the smallholders key players in Romania's economy, encouraging credit unions and land purchase, as well as describing a future in which labor and its product would be more expensive; it also promised to enact agricultural dirigisme, with tools such as a state plan for developing agriculture, pomology, sericulture, and handicrafts. \nWhile seeking ways to improve the peasants' economic status, the party pledged itself to administrative reform and a full clampdown on corruption. By October 1932, its deputies were engaged in a public confrontation with the PNȚ cabinet, headed by Alexandru Vaida-Voevod, over the issue of debt relief. Goga wanted most of the small- and mid-sized plots to be cleared of debt with state support, and wanted to extend that principle to public debt held by urban localities. Such proposals were balanced out by the PNA's adversity toward decentralizing projects, in which Goga saw evidence of pushes for Transylvanian autonomism, as endorsed by the PNȚ. Historian Oltea Rășcanu Gramaticu, who focused on the politics of Tutova County, noted that the PNA enjoyed \"some popularity\", due to its \"radical solutions for revitalizing small plots owned by the peasants\". However, as argued by researchers Cornel Popescu and George Daniel Ungureanu, the PNA was agrarian \"in name\", and had a mostly right-wing program.\n\nThe party's stances evidenced Goga's conversion to antisemitism, which he had not explicitly embraced before 1932; within that framework, Goga was arguing that Jews were endorsing \"Magyarization\" in Transylvania. However, already in the 1910s Goga was modelling himself on Karl Lueger, Cisleithania's antisemitic doctrinaire. In the 1920s, his \"Țara Noastră\" had expressed sympathy with the growing antisemitic trend among students, and indirectly with the Iron Guard. In \"Mustul care fierbe\", Goga further hinted that Jews were to blame for the ills of modernity. He voiced alarm about Greater Romania being invaded by \"parasites\" and \"guess... who\". However, he framed his support for the students in terms of social rejuvenation, and noted that violent antisemitism was perhaps an \"incorrect slogan\". During the elections of 1926, Goga, as Minister of the Interior, had obtained favors for A. C. Cuza's National-Christian Defense League (LANC), which was virulently antisemitic. However, his assistance proved a moderating influence, obliging Cuza to purge the LANC of radicals such as Ion Zelea Codreanu, Valer Pop, and Traian Brăileanu.\n\nIn 1931, Goga was still reassuring his readers that he was not an antisemite. According to Minuț, his subsequent drift was a consequence of his taking money from antisemitic industrialists, and in particular from Ion Gigurtu. Xenophobic radicalization was additionally enhanced by the PNA–PNȚ conflict: Goga castigated his adversaries for their alleged grafting during the \"Škoda Affair\", which had profited the Polish industrialist Bruno Seletzky. However, Minuț notes, Goga was \"contradictory\" even at this late stage, sometimes stating his belief in the minorities' integration, but often decrying their participation in public life.\n\nThe PNA nevertheless had at least three Jewish affiliates: the Vianus, who probably believed that membership would compliment their assimilation, and journalist Henric Streitman, who was primarily motivated by anticommunism. While Tudor Vianu co-chaired the PNA Studies Circle, alongside Petrovici, Streitman was appointed on the PNA's Executive Committee. \n\nThe party remained open to other ethnic minorities: its branch in Durostor County, organized by M. Magiari and Pericle Papahagi, counted Turks, Bulgarians and Aromanians among its members. PNA sections in Bukovina were led by Petro Ivanciuc, Andriv Zemliuc and Necolai Palli, who were probably Ukrainian. Goga also had contacts within the Romani community, including activist Gheorghe A. Lăzăreanu-Lăzurică, who acted as an electoral agent for both the PNA and the Iron Guard. This issue highlighted the schism between the two Romani organizations, respectively led by Lăzăreanu and Calinic Șerboianu. At the time, Șerboianu accused his rival of being Goga's puppet.\n\nAccording to Heinen, the PNA can be grouped into an \"antisemitic [and] markedly right-wing\" segment, alongside the LANC and the Citizen Bloc—but distinct from the more radical Iron Guard. The three parties had 9% of the vote in the July 1932 election, with the PNA itself at 3.64% (or 4% and 108,857 ballots, in Minuț's count). The leading candidates included Dragomir, Ghițescu, Gorun, Ioanid, Lupaș, Nemoianu, Scridon, Valjean, Sergiu Niță, I. C. Atanasiu, Dumitru Topciu, as well as the party leader and his brother Eugen Goga. Eight were elected, including Octavian Goga for Mureș, Ioanid for Mehedinți, Ghițescu for Teleorman, Pavel Cuciujna for Orhei, and Valjean for Romanați; Scridon also entered the Assembly by taking the second seat in Năsăud County, with 2,069 votes. According to Netea's first-hand account, Goga's victory was hard-won: peasants rounded up to mock him during his campaign tour at Deda.\n\nSpeaking for his party, Ghițescu accused Premier Vaida of having falsified the vote. The PNA chose not to compete in the by-elections of September, announcing that it was too caught up organizing its base. Vaida's paper, \"Gazeta Transilvaniei\", ridiculed this decision, noting that Goga had been \"shamed\" and was not risking further embarrassment. In December, Carol asked Vaida to step down, and the National Liberals took over, with Ion G. Duca at the helm. Duca then approached the PNA leadership to establish a coalition, conditioned on Goga toning down his nationalism; Goga refused. The National Agrianists had cultivated a relationship with two other splinter groups of the classical parties: the Georgist Liberal Party and the Lupist Peasantists. It developed into a working alliance.\n\nOn June 26, 1933, the PNA held a large rally on a high plain outside Târgoviște. Goga used this venue to announce his contempt for the PNȚ, describing its leader, Iuliu Maniu, as \"responsible for all misfortunes that have fallen upon this country.\" The 1932 performance was closely mirrored in the December 1933 election, when the PNA managed 4.1%, with its family of parties again at 9%. The PNA had nine mandates: Goga, Scridon, Ioanid and Ghițescu held on to their seats; Valjean was also elected, but for Caraș, with Petrovici taking his post in Romanați. Topciu also won a seat, at Tighina, while physician Gheorghe Banu was elected at Ialomița. Another new recruit, Vasile Goldiș, failed to win the race for Arad, as did Ion Demetrescu-Agraru in Baia, while Lupaș lost at Sibiu and Nemoianu at Severin. Overall, the PNA had some 122,000 votes, which was enough to earn it an extra seat.\n\nBetween these two races, Germany had come under Nazi control, and the PNA found itself intensely courted by the new regime, which pursued Eastern European alliances. Goga was a regular guest at the German Legation, and accepted offers for collaboration; however, he also insisted that Nazi Germany vouch for Greater Romania's borders. During those months, the PNA, represented by Valjean, joined the \"Antirevisionist League\", a civic movement for the Little Entente and against Hungarian irredentism. In its electoral program of 1933, the PNA proposed measures to supervise Romania's minorities, and in particular their \"ideological imports\".\n\nNonetheless, in March 1933, the Nazi agent of influence, Friedrich Weber, described Goga as a \"man of the future\", one who could bring Hitler's ideology to Romania. A far-right politico, Nae Ionescu, allegedly regarded Goga as a potential Prime Minister of an Iron Guard cabinet. According to this version, Goga was tasked with enacting the \"Hitlerian\" program, including antisemitism and anti-Masonry. This pronouncement anticipated Goga's own departure from the Romanian Freemasonry, of which he was still a member in summer 1933. In September, Goga and Ștefan Tătărescu of the Romanian National Socialists were both received by Hitler in Berlin. As historian Francisco Veiga notes, visits to Germany and the Kingdom of Italy made Goga \"enthusiastic\" and \"completed [his] political evolution\".\n\nThe PNA and the LANC both repeatedly tried, but failed, to persuade the Iron Guard into a merger. King Carol also proposed that the Guard be co-opted into a government coalition of \"national forces\", centered on the PP and the PNA. This tendency was curbed by Premier Duca, who outlawed the Guard. Goga and the PNA reacted with public protests, viewing the measure as unwarranted. Reportedly, after Duca's assassination by Guardist \"Nicadori\", Goga sent boots to all those convicted for the murder. PNA deputies publicly called for an end to the anti-Guard wave of arrests, suggesting that it was unjustified. Nevertheless, according to writer Al. Gherghel, in August 1933 the PNA still viewed itself as standing against \"right- and left-wing extremes\", its platform one of \"moderate progress\". In mid 1935, Goga also approached Vaida's new far-right party, called Romanian Front (FR), with offers of alliance or merger. Reportedly, Goga offered to fuse the PNA group into the FR, asking that he be assigned vice-chairmanship; Vaida refused, since he had promised that role to a long-time collaborator of his, Aurel Vlad.\n\nThe National Agrarianists held their second and final congress on April 7, 1935, again at Rio Cinema. On July 14, the PNA merged with the LANC to form the National Christian Party, a hard-line antisemitic group. It used as its most popular symbol the LANC swastika, which Goga himself acknowledged as standing for the \"Aryan race\". This new party had a shared presidency, with Cuza and Goga as co-chairs. It sought to challenge the Iron Guard whilst remaining close to more mainstream conservative forces. The merger was partly motivated by Cuza's political calculations, since the LANC had only taken 4.5% of the vote in 1933. Nichifor Crainic, who oversaw the LANC's paramilitary youth (or \"Lăncieri\"), boasted an important role in negotiating the Goga–Cuza rapprochement. However, as Heinen suggests, Carol was also directly involved in pushing for the merger. Additional pressure had come from the office of Alfred Rosenberg in Nazi Germany, where a stronger antisemitic party in Romania was seen as desirable. \n\nAs noted by historian Lucian T. Butaru, Goga proved a worthy replacement for Cuza's first associate, Nicolae Paulescu, who had died after disease in 1931. Nevertheless, the new party faced immediate difficulties. A far-left antifascist, Scarlat Callimachi, noted in September 1935 that the PNC was made up from regional chapters that had no common ideological ground, the entire enterprise having been engineered by Hitler. The fusion resulted in another split: after being sidelined in favor of a Goga favorite, Ion V. Emilian quit the PNC and formed his own movement, called \"Fire Swastika\". Valjean also opposed the merger, and made a point of not attending the PNC's constitutive congress. His own National Agrarian Party, centered on Romanați, counted among its members poet Horia Furtună, sculptor Dumitru Pavelescu-Dimo, and businessman Sterie Ionescu (formerly of the League Against Usury). Valjean's party still existed during the general election of December 1937, when it ran under a \"T\" logo, the old PNA symbol having been withdrawn and made unavailable for use. \n\nOf the PNA moderates, Lupaș no longer joined the PNC, whereas his colleague Dragomir did. Tudor Vianu left before the unification and the adoption of full-on antisemitism, with his brother resigning in 1935; by contrast, Streitman remained an outside ally, serving as the PNC's electoral agent. Goga himself became more explicitly antisemitic. Appointed Carol's Prime Minister after the 1937 election, he introduced a set of antisemitic laws. However, he continued to view himself as a moderate, censuring PNC radicals—including Gheorghe Cuza, who took pride in fomenting violence. Virulent antisemitism was also embraced by the Romani caucus of Craiova, whose leader, Lăzăreanu-Lăzurică, finally joined the PNC in February 1938.\n\n"}
{"id": "284003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284003", "title": "Neutral country", "text": "Neutral country\n\nA neutral country is a state which is neutral towards belligerents in a specific war, or holds itself as permanently neutral in all future conflicts (including avoiding entering into military alliances such as NATO). As a type of non-combatant status, neutral nationals enjoy protection under the law of war from belligerent actions to a greater extent than other non-combatants such as enemy civilians and prisoners of war. The exact nature of neutrality can differ between the interpretations of various countries. Some, such as Costa Rica, have demilitarized; whereas Switzerland holds to \"armed neutrality\" in which it deters aggression with a sizeable military, while barring itself from foreign deployment. Not all neutral countries avoid any foreign deployment or alliances, however, as Austria, Ireland, Finland and Sweden have active UN peacekeeping forces and a political alliance within the European Union. Sweden is not a truly \"neutral\" country: the traditional Swedish policy is not to participate in military alliances, with the intention of staying neutral in the case of war. Immediately before World War II, the Nordic countries stated their neutrality, but Sweden changed its position to that of non-belligerent at the start of the Winter War.\n\n\nBelligerents may not invade neutral territory, and a neutral power's resisting any such attempt does not compromise its neutrality.\n\nA neutral power must intern belligerent troops who reach its territory, but not escaped prisoners of war. Belligerent armies may not recruit neutral citizens, but they may go abroad to enlist. Belligerent armies' personnel and material may not be transported across neutral territory, but the wounded may be. A neutral power may supply communication facilities to belligerents, but not war material, although it need not prevent export of such material.\n\nBelligerent naval vessels may use neutral ports for a maximum of 24 hours, though neutrals may impose different restrictions. Exceptions are to make repairs—only the minimum necessary to put back to sea—or if an opposing belligerent's vessel is already in port, in which case it must have a 24-hour head start. A prize ship captured by a belligerent in the territorial waters of a neutral power must be surrendered by the belligerent to the neutral, which must intern its crew.\n\nNeutrality has been recognised in different ways, and sometimes involves a formal guarantor. For example, Austria has its neutrality guaranteed by its four former occupying powers, Switzerland by the signatories of the Congress of Vienna and Finland by the Soviet Union during the Cold War. The form of recognition varies, often by bilateral treaty (Finland), multilateral treaty (Austria) or a UN declaration (Turkmenistan). These treaties can in some ways be forced on a country (Austria's neutrality was insisted upon by the Soviet Union) but in other cases it is an active policy of the country concerned to respond to a geopolitical situation (Ireland in the Second World War).\n\nFor the country concerned, the policy is usually codified beyond the treaty itself. Austria and Japan codify their neutrality in their constitutions, but they do so with different levels of detail. Some details of neutrality are left to be interpreted by the government while others are explicitly stated, for example Austria may not host any foreign bases and Japan cannot participate in foreign wars. Yet Sweden, lacking formal codification, was more flexible during the Second World War in allowing troops to pass through its territory.\n\nArmed neutrality is the posture of a state or group of states that has no alliance with either side in a war, but asserts that it will defend itself against resulting incursions from any party. This may include:\n\n\nSweden and Switzerland are, independent of each other, famed for their armed neutrality, which they maintained throughout both World War I and World War II. The Swiss have a long history of neutrality: it has not been in a state of war internationally since 1815 and did not join the United Nations until 2002. It pursues, however, an active foreign policy and is frequently involved in peace-building processes around the world. According to Edwin Reischauer, \"To be neutral you must be ready to be highly militarized, like Switzerland or Sweden.\"\n\nIn contrast, other neutral states may abandon military power (examples of states doing this include Costa Rica and Liechtenstein) or reduce it, but rather uses it for the express purpose of home defence and the maintenance of its neutrality. But not having a military does not result in neutrality as many countries, such as Iceland, replaced a standing military with a military guarantee from a stronger power.\n\nThe phrase \"armed neutrality\" sometimes refers specifically to one of the \"Leagues of Armed Neutrality\".\n\n\nFor many states, such as Ireland and Sweden, neutrality does not mean the absence of any foreign interventionism. Peacekeeping missions for the United Nations are seen as intertwined with it. The Swiss electorate rejected a 1994 proposal to join UN peacekeeping operations. Despite this, 23 Swiss observers and police have been deployed around the world in UN projects.\n\nThe legitimacy of whether some states are as neutral as they claim has been questioned in some circles, although this depends largely on a state's interpretation of its form of neutrality.\n\nThere are five members of the European Union that still describe themselves as a neutral country in some form: Austria, Ireland, Finland, Malta and Sweden. With the development of the EU's Common Security and Defence Policy, the extent to which they are, or should be, neutral is debated. For example former Finnish Prime Minister, Matti Vanhanen, on 5 July 2006, stated that Finland was no longer neutral:\n\n\"Mr Pflüger described Finland as neutral. I must correct him on that: Finland is a member of the EU. We were at one time a politically neutral country, during the time of the Iron Curtain. Now we are a member of the Union, part of this community of values, which has a common policy and, moreover, a common foreign policy.\"\n\nHowever, Finnish Prime Minister Juha Sipila on 5 December 2017 still described the country as \"militarily non-aligned\" and that it should remain so. Ireland, which sought guarantees for its neutrality in EU treaties, argues that its neutrality does not mean that Ireland should avoid engagement in international affairs such as peacekeeping operations.\n\nSince the enactment of the Lisbon Treaty, EU members are bound by , which obliges states to assist a fellow member that is the victim of armed aggression. It accords \n\"an obligation of aid and assistance by all the means in [other member states'] power\" but would \"not prejudice the specific character of the security and defence policy of certain Member States\" (neutral policies), allowing members to respond with non-military aid.\n\nWith the launch of Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO) in defence at the end of 2017, the EU's activity on military matters has increased. The policy was designed to be inclusive and allows for states to opt in or out of specific forms of military cooperation. That has allowed most of the neutral states to participate, but opinions still vary. Some members of the Irish Parliament considered Ireland's joining PESCO as an abandonment of neutrality. It was passed with the government arguing that its opt-in nature allowed Ireland to \"join elements of PESCO that were beneficial such as counter-terrorism, cyber security and peace keeping... what we are not going to be doing is buying aircraft carriers and fighter jets\". Malta, as of December 2017, is the only neutral state not to participate in PESCO. The Maltese government argued that it was going to wait and see how PESCO develops to see whether it would compromise Maltese neutrality.\n\nThe neutrality of Republic of Moldova is an interesting case. According to Ion Marandici, Moldova has chosen neutrality in order to avoid Russian security schemes and Russian military presence on its territory. Even if the country is constitutionally neutral, some researchers argue that de facto this former Soviet republic never was neutral, because parts of the Russian 14th army are present at Bendery. The same author suggests that one solution in order to avoid unnecessary contradictions and deepen at the same time the relations with NATO would be \"to interpret the concept of permanent neutrality in a flexible manner\".\n\nMany countries made neutrality declarations during World War II. Most, however, became occupied, and in the end only the states of Andorra, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland (with Liechtenstein), and Vatican (the Holy See) remained neutral of the European countries closest to the war. Their fulfillment to the letter of the rules of neutrality have been questioned: Ireland supplied important secret information to the Allies; for instance, the date of D-Day was decided on the basis of incoming Atlantic weather information secretly supplied to them by Ireland but kept from Germany. Axis or Allied pilots who crash landed in Ireland were interned.\n\nSweden and Switzerland, as embedded within Nazi Germany and its occupied territory, similarly made some concessions to Nazi requests as well as to Allied requests. Sweden was also involved in intelligence operations with the Allies, including listening stations in Sweden and espionage in Germany, as well as secret military training of Norwegian and Danish soldiers in Sweden. Spain also pursued a policy of \"non-alignment\" and sent a volunteer combat division to aid the Nazi war effort. Portugal officially stayed neutral, but actively supported both the Allies by providing overseas naval bases and Germany by keeping its war machine alight with the extensive sale of tungsten.\n\nThe United States was initially neutral during the war and was initially bound Neutrality Acts of 1936 not to sell war materiels to belligerents. Once war broke out, US President Franklin Delano Roosevelt succeeded in getting Congress to replace the act with the Cash and carry program that allowed the US to provide military aid to the allies, despite opposition from isolationist members.\n\n\"Note: Some countries may occasionally claim to be \"neutral\" but not comply with the internationally agreed upon definition of neutrality as listed above.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53909503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53909503", "title": "Northern Ireland Assembly Opposition", "text": "Northern Ireland Assembly Opposition\n\nThe role of official opposition in the Northern Ireland Assembly can be taken by larger political parties who do not participate in Northern Ireland's consociational power-sharing Executive. Forming an Assembly Opposition empowers opposition parties to scrutinise the work of government, giving them financial assistance, enhanced speaking rights in the chamber and the right to chair certain committees.\n\nWhile the Assembly and Executive had been in operation since 1998 and 1999, respectively (following the Good Friday Agreement), the Assembly Opposition was only established in 2016, as part of the Fresh Start Agreement. The opportunity was first taken by the Ulster Unionist Party and Social Democratic and Labour Party for the Assembly's fifth term, following the May 2016 assembly election.\n\nNorthern Ireland was governed from 1921 to 1972 by a bicameral Parliament, where in the lower House of Commons the largest and therefore the governing party was consistently the Ulster Unionist Party. It could have been expected, following the Westminster system, that the role of official Opposition would be taken by largest party outside of government, which was consistently an Irish nationalist party (jointly Sinn Féin and the Nationalist Party in the Parliament's first term from 1921 to 1925, and thereafter the Nationalist Party). However, during this time members of the nationalist opposition often practised a policy of abstentionism where they would run for seats in the parliament but refuse to take them if elected, in order not to give legitimacy to British rule or the partition of the island. Nationalist Party members refused to take their seats in the legislature until 1924, and resumed the abstentionist policy in the 1930s to protest the abolition of proportional representation. From 1937, Thomas Joseph Campbell and Richard Byrne were the only Nationalist MPs to take their seats until Byrne's death in 1942 and Campbell's resignation in 1945.\n\nIt was not until February 1965 that the Nationalist Party agreed to accept recognition as the Official Opposition in the House of Commons. Eddie McAteer served as Leader of the Opposition for the remainder of the tenth term and through the eleventh term until he lost his seat in the 1969 election. Roderick O'Connor succeeded McAteer as Nationalist Party leader but the party again withdrew from its role as Official Opposition for the twelfth and final term.\n\nThe majority-rule Parliament was abolished and replaced in 1973 by a unicameral Northern Ireland Assembly. An Executive was formed in which unionist, nationalist and cross-community parties shared power for the first time. However, that government only lasted from January to May 1974, and from then until the Good Friday Agreement in 1998 Northern Ireland was ruled directly by the British Government.\n\nThe legal basis for the Assembly Opposition was established by the Assembly and Executive Reform (Assembly Opposition) Act (Northern Ireland) 2016. Under section 2, a party may join the official Opposition if it meets one or both of two criteria:\nThe UUP and SDLP consistently fulfil both criteria, while Alliance fulfilled the second in the 2017 election having returned eight members. Meanwhile, the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin would currently be excluded from entering opposition if they wished to, because as the largest unionist and largest nationalist party they must participate in the Executive.\n\nThe Assembly Opposition Act recognises the offices of Leader of the Largest Non-Executive Party and Leader of the Second-Largest Non-Executive Party, although these positions may be given alternative names (section 5).\n\nFollowing the Assembly Opposition Act, the standing orders which regulate how the Assembly conducts its business were amended on 14 March 2016 to provide the Assembly Opposition with:\nThe Assembly Opposition Act also required standing orders to grant:\nand amended the Financial Assistance for Political Parties Act (Northern Ireland) 2000 to give Assembly Opposition parties additional funding (section 11).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7015182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7015182", "title": "Participatory technology development", "text": "Participatory technology development\n\nParticipatory technology development (PTD) is an approach to learning and innovation that is used in international development as part of projects and programmes relating to sustainable agriculture. The approach involves collaboration between researchers and farmers in the analysis of agricultural problems and testing of alternative farming practices.\n\nThe origins of Participatory Technology Development can be found in a number of approaches, concepts and techniques that became popular in the 1970s and 1980s: \n\n\nOne of the leading authorities on this process is the \"Centre for learning on sustainable agriculture - ILEIA\" based in the Netherlands. ILEIA has described PTD as “a process between local communities and outside facilitators which involves: \n\nPTD facilitators are usually researchers, sometimes consisting of a team that includes both biological and social scientists. While PTD is closely linked to research, it often crosses the boundary into agricultural extension because it involves learning activities with farmers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7239809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7239809", "title": "Peace Gardens", "text": "Peace Gardens\n\nThe Peace Gardens are an inner city square in Sheffield, England. It was created as part of the Heart of the City project by Sheffield City Council.\n\nThe Gardens themselves front onto Sheffield's gothic town hall—not to be confused with the Sheffield City Hall, a concert venue.\n\nThe Gardens were first laid out in 1938, following the demolition of St Paul's Church. Originally named St Paul's Gardens, they were immediately nicknamed the \"Peace Gardens\", marking the contemporary signing of the Munich Agreement. The Gardens were originally intended to be replaced by an extension to the Town Hall, but due to World War II, this was never built. In 1985, the space was formally renamed the \"Peace Gardens\". The Sheffield gardens are a fine example of the network of similar gardens created between the two world wars and presage later gardens and community spaces in London and other urban centres.\n\nIn 1997 work commenced to remove the former St Pauls graveyard, and the whole space was re-modeled. Water features and a central fountain were introduced, with the channels representing the rivers of Sheffield. The construction work was carried out by Tilbury Douglas Construction (now Interserve) under a Management form of Contract, with the design work carried out mainly by Sheffield City Council. The \"topping out ceremony\" was carried out by Prince Charles, and a plaque on Pinstone Street was unveiled to mark this event. The Peace Gardens were substantially completed by the end of 1998, then the Sheffield Millennium Galleries works commenced and the old egg-box council offices were then demolished. This allowed the remained of the Peace Gardens to be completed in a second phase.\n\nPublic Consultation showed strong support for a garden rather than the multi purpose open square which had been earlier advised by architectural consultants. It has fountains at the centre, and cascades around the outside. These are to represent the flowing molten steel, which made Sheffield famous, and also the water of Sheffield's rivers, the Sheaf, River Don, River Rivelin, River Loxley and Porter Brook, which were used to power the mills which drove Sheffield's industry.\n\nThe site contains several memorials for Sheffielders who served in wars, including in the Spanish Civil War and another plaque commemorating Sheffielders who gave their lives in all conflicts, including the Korean War. It also contains a memorial to Hiroshima, unveiled on Hiroshima Day, 8 August 1985, in the presence of three survivors of the atomic devastation. Other memorials include the Holberry Cascades, named for local Chartist leader Samuel Holberry, the Bochum Bell, donated by Sheffield's German twin city Bochum, and a set of standard measures.\n\n"}
{"id": "11164661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11164661", "title": "Polish governments and their composition", "text": "Polish governments and their composition\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlternative government-in-exile, created by Juliusz Nowina-Sokolnicki\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4769018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4769018", "title": "Public hospital", "text": "Public hospital\n\nA public hospital or government hospital is a hospital which is owned by a government and receives government funding. In some countries, this type of hospital provides medical care free of charge, the cost of which is covered by government reimbursement.\n\nIn Australia, public hospitals are operated and funded by each individual state's health department. The federal government also contributes funding. Services in public hospitals for all Australian citizens and permanent residents are fully subsidized by the federal government's Medicare Universal Healthcare program. Hospitals in Australia treat all Australian citizens and permanent residents regardless of their age, income, or social status.\n\nEmergency Departments are almost exclusively found in public hospitals. Private hospitals rarely operate emergency departments, and patients treated at these private facilities are billed for care. Some costs, however (\"pathology, X-ray\") may qualify for billing under Medicare.\n\nWhere patients hold private health insurance, after initial treatment by a public hospital's emergency department, the patient has the option of being transferred to a private hospital.\n\nThe Brazilian health system is a mix composed by public hospitals, non-profit philanthropic hospitals, and private hospitals. The majority of the low and medium-income population uses services provided by public hospitals run by either by the State or the municipality. Since the inception of 1988 Federal Constitution, health care is a universal right for everyone living in Brazil: citizens, permanent residents, and foreigners. To provide this service, the Brazilian government created a national public health insurance system called SUS (Sistema Unico de Saúde, Unified Health System) in which all publicly funded hospitals (public and philanthropic entities) receive payments based on the number of patients and procedures performed. The construction and operation of hospitals and health clinics are also a responsibility of the government.\n\nThe system provides universal coverage to all patients, including emergency care, preventive medicine, diagnostic procedures, surgeries (except cosmetic procedures) and medicine necessary to treat their condition. However, given budget constraints, these services are often unavailable in the majority of the country with the exception of major metropolitan regions, and even in those cities access to complex procedures may be delayed because of long lines. Despite this scenario, some patients were able to successfully sue the government for full SUS coverage for procedures performed in non-public facilities.\n\nRecently, new legislation has been enacted forbidding private hospitals to refuse treatment to patients with insufficient funds in case of life-threatening emergencies. The law also determines that the healthcare costs in this situation are to be paid by the SUS.\n\nIn Canada all hospitals are funded through Medicare, Canada's publicly funded universal health insurance system and operated by the provincial governments. Hospitals in Canada treat all Canadian citizens and permanent residents regardless of their age, income, or social status.\n\nIn India, public hospitals (called Government Hospitals) provide health care free at the point of use for any Indian citizen. These are usually individual state funded. However, hospitals funded by the central (federal) government also exist. State hospitals are run by the state (local) government and may be dispensaries, peripheral health centers, rural hospital, district hospitals or medical college hospitals (hospitals with affiliated medical college). In \nmany states (like Tamil Nadu) the hospital bill is entirely funded by the state government with patient not having to pay anything for treatment. However, other hospitals will charge nominal amounts for admission to special rooms and for medical and surgical consumables. The reliability and approachability of doctors and staff in private hospitals have resulted in preference of people from the public to private health centers. However state owned hospitals in India are known for high patient load and there is persistent claims of incident relating to physical abuse on doctors and staff.\n\nIn Norway, all public hospitals are funded from the national budget and run by four Regional Health Authorities (RHA) owned by the Ministry of Health and Care Services. In addition to the public hospitals, a few privately owned health clinics are operating. The four Regional Health Authorities are: Northern Norway Regional Health Authority, Central Norway Regional Health Authority, Western Norway Regional Health Authority, and South-eastern Norway Regional Health Authority. All citizens are eligible for treatment free of charge in the public hospital system. According to The Patients' Rights Act, all citizens have the right to Free Hospital Choices.\n\nSouth Africa has private and public hospitals. Public hospitals are funded by the Department of Health. The majority of the patients use public hospitals in which patients pay a nominal fee, roughly $3–5. The patients point of entry usually is through primary health care (Clinics) usually run by nurses. The next level of care would be district hospitals which have General Practitioners and basic radiographs. The next level of care would be Regional hospitals which have general practitioners, specialists and ICU's, and CT SCANS. The highest level of care is Tertiary which includes super specialists, MRI scans, and nuclear medicine scans.\n\nPrivate patients either have healthcare insurance, known as medical aid, or have to pay the full amount privately if uninsured.\n\nIn the UK public hospitals provide health care free at the point of use for the patient. Private health care is used by less than 8 percent of the population. The UK system is known as the National Health Service (NHS) and has been funded from general taxation since 1948.\n\nIn the United States, two thirds of all urban hospitals are non-profit. The remaining third is split between for-profit and public, public hospitals not necessarily being not-for-profit hospital corporations. The urban public hospitals are often associated with medical schools. The largest public hospital system in the U.S. is NYC Health + Hospitals.\n\nThe safety-net role of public hospitals has evolved since 1700s when the first U.S. public hospital sheltered and provided medical healthcare to the poor. Until the late 20th century, public hospitals represented the \"poor house\" that undertook social welfare roles. The \"poor house\" also provided secondarily medical care, specifically during epidemics. For this reason, these \"poor houses\" were later known as \"pest\" houses. Following this phase was the \"practitioner period\" during which, the then welfare oriented urban public hospitals changed their focus to medical care and formalized nursing care. This new phase was highlighted by the private physicians providing care to patients outside their private practices into inpatient hospital settings. To put into practice the demands of the Flexner Report published in 1910, public hospitals later benefitted from the best medical care technology to hire full-time staff members, instruct medical and nursing students during the \"academic period\". The privatization of public hospitals was often contemplated during this period and stalled once an infectious disease outbreak such as influenza in 1918, tuberculosis in the early 1900s, and the polio epidemic in the 1950s hit the U.S.. At this time, with the goal to improve people's health and welfare by allowing for effective health planning and the creation of neighborhood health centers, health policies like the Social Security Act were enacted. This was followed by Medicare and Medicaid Act in 1965 that gave poor people in the U.S., access to inpatient and outpatient medical care from public hospitals after racial segregation ended in the South. With their mandate to care for low income patients, the public hospital started engaging in leadership roles in the communities they care for since the 1980s.\n\nIn the U.S., public hospitals receive significant funding from local, state, and/or federal governments. Currently, many urban public hospitals in the U.S. playing the role of safety-net hospitals, which do not turn away the underinsured and uninsured such as the vulnerable ethnic minorities, may charge Medicaid, Medicare, and private insurers for the care of patients. Public hospitals, especially in urban areas, have a high concentration of uncompensated care and graduate medical education as compared to all other American hospitals. 23% of emergency care, 63% of burn care and 40% of trauma care are handled by public hospitals in the urban cities of the United States. Many public hospitals also develop programs for illness prevention with the goal of reducing the cost of care for low-income patients and the hospital, involving Community Health Needs Assessment and identifying and addressing the social, economic, environmental, and individual behavioral determinants of health.\n\nFor-profit hospitals were more likely to provide profitable medical services and less likely to provide medical services that were relatively unprofitable. Government or public hospitals were more likely to offer relatively unprofitable medical services. Not-for-profit hospitals often fell in the middle between public and for-profit hospitals in the types of medical services they provided. For-profit hospitals were quicker to respond to changes in profitability of medical services than the other two types of hospitals.\n\nPublic hospitals in America are closing at a much faster rate than hospitals overall. The number of public hospitals in major suburbs declined 27% (134 to 98) from 1996 to 2002. Much research has proven the increase in uninsured and Medicaid enrollment entwined to unmet needs for disproportionate share subsidies to be associated with the challenges faced by public hospitals to maintain their financial viability as they compete with the private sector for paying patients. Since the creation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2010, 15 million of the 48 million previously uninsured receive Medicaid. It is projected that this number will grow to about 33 million by 2018. The provision of good quality ambulatory specialty care for these uninsured and Medicaid enrolled patients has particularly been a challenge for many urban public hospitals. This accounts for many factors ranging from a shortage of specialists who are more likely to practice in the more profitable sectors than in the safety-net, to the lack of clinical space. To overcome this challenge, some public hospitals have adopted disease prevention methods, the increase of specialty providers and clinics, deployment of nurse practitioners and physician assistants in specialty clinics, asynchronous electronic consultations, telehealth, the integration of Primary Care Providers (PCP) in the specialty clinics, and referral by PCP's to specialists.\n\n"}
{"id": "33695994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33695994", "title": "Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994", "text": "Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994\n\nThe Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 [IBBEA] amended the laws governing federally chartered banks in order to restore the laws' competitiveness with the recently relaxed laws governing \"state\"-chartered banks. The goal was the return to a balance between the benefits of a state bank charter versus a federal bank charter. Among other notable changes, the Act stipulated that a federally chartered bank wishing to expand must first undergo a review of its Community Reinvestment Act compliance. \n\nThree sections of the IBBEA address and expand the Community Reinvestment Act.\n\nIn section 107 (\"EQUALIZING COMPETITIVE OPPORTUNITIES FOR UNITED STATES AND FOREIGN BANKS\"):\n\nIn section 109 (\"PROHIBITION AGAINST DEPOSIT PRODUCTION OFFICES\"):\n\nSection 110 (\"COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT EVALUATION OF BANKS WITH INTERSTATE BRANCHES\") amends the Community Reinvestment Act itself to include a new section regarding the method of evaluating the compliance of banks with branches in more than one state.\n\nNewly formed firms used less outside debt financing and invested less, suggesting that greater banking competition increased financial constraints for these firms. These effects diminished and ultimately reversed as firms aged.\n\nhttp://www.ct.gov/dob/cwp/view.asp?a=2235&q=297892\n"}
{"id": "57393329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57393329", "title": "Right of Irish expatriates to vote", "text": "Right of Irish expatriates to vote\n\nAt most elections in the Republic of Ireland the electoral register is based on residential address, and the only nonresident voters are those serving abroad on government business; this includes Irish diplomats and their spouses, and Defence Forces and Garda Síochána personnel but not their spouses. An exception is in elections to the Seanad (upper house) for which graduates voting in the university constituencies (National University of Ireland and University of Dublin) may be nonresident. Expatriates intending to return to Ireland within eighteen months may retain their Irish address for electoral purposes, but must be present to vote in person. Maintenance of the electoral register is inefficient and emigrants often remain listed years after leaving; some return specifically to vote, which is technically illegal but difficult to enforce.\n\nThere is no requirement of residency for public representatives. Martin McGuinness as a Derry resident could not vote in the 2011 presidential election in which he came third of five candidates. Chicago resident Billy Lawless was a Taoiseach's nominee to the 25th Seanad.\n\nSince the 1990s there have been proposals to allow emigrants to vote in elections to the Dáil (lower house) or Seanad, generally via a dedicated (single transferable vote multi-seat) constituency. Groups established by economic emigrants leaving the 1980s recession have advocated for change. A related issue is a proposed right of people in Northern Ireland to vote in the Republic. Arguments in favour of expatriates voting include the economic and cultural importance of the Irish diaspora and the potential benefits of increasing its engagement with the state, and a moral debt owed to reluctant emigrants. Arguments against include the possibility of the emigrant vote swamping residents, and that emigrants' views may conflict with residents', as evinced by Irish American support for NORAID during the Troubles in Northern Ireland. Of 70 million nonresidents claiming Irish ancestry, 3 million have Irish citizenship including 1 million who have lived in Ireland. Most proposals would enfranchise only the subset of this 1 million who left Ireland a limited time before. The number is still large relative to a resident population (including children) of 4.8 million; however, Iseult Honohan suggests that swamping could be prevented by making emigrants vote in a dedicated emigrants' constituency rather than in the constituency of their last Irish residence, so that expatriates would have lower apportionment than residents. The Irish government is responsible to the Dáil, so proposals to allow expatriates to vote for the Seanad or the figurehead office of President would provide symbolic inclusion without jeopardising government stability.\n\nThe Oireachtas (parliament) committee on the constitution considered the matter in 2002; it recommended no extension of the franchise, but that among the senators nominated by the Taoiseach (prime minister) should be \"a person or persons with an awareness of emigrant issues\". The Constitutional Convention in 2013 recommended allowing expatriate citizens to vote in presidential elections; In 2017 the government agreed to this, published a position paper listing seven options for eligibility criteria and associated implementation measures, and promised a constitutional referendum on whichever option it would select, to be held alongside the 2019 local election. In 2014, the Oireachtas joint committee on European Union affairs considered a European Commission communication on \"the consequences of disenfranchisement of Union citizens exercising their right to free movement\", and recommended that Irish citizens abroad should have the right to vote in Dáil elections. In 2015, a report on reform of the Seanad commissioned by the Taoiseach Enda Kenny recommended that senators on vocational panels should be directly rather than indirectly elected, from an electorate extended \"to Irish citizens in Northern Ireland and to holders of Irish passports living overseas\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34832274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34832274", "title": "Robert A. Vitas", "text": "Robert A. Vitas\n\nRobert A. Vitas is a scholar of civil-military relations, national security strategy, and Lithuania studies. He was an army officer in the U.S. Army Reserve and a visiting scholar at Northwestern University. He is currently the executive director of the Inter-University Seminar on Armed Forces & Society. He is also the chairman of the Lithuanian Research and Studies Center. He received his PhD from Loyola University Chicago and has produced scholarship with other notable civil-military relations scholars such as John Allen Williams and Sam C. Sarkesian.\n\n"}
{"id": "30495856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30495856", "title": "Rudolf Elmer", "text": "Rudolf Elmer\n\nRudolf Elmer (born 1 November 1955) is a Swiss private banker, whistleblower, and activist. He worked as a banker at Julius Bär from the 1980s to his dismissal in 2002. At the time of his leaving, he was head of the bank's Caribbean operations for eight years. After initial, unsuccessful attempts to disclose client information in 2005, he was arrested by Zürich authorities and held for 30 days. \n\nIn 2008, Elmer illegally disclosed confidential bank documents to WikiLeaks detailing the activities of Julius Bär in the Cayman Islands and its role in alleged tax evasion. In January 2011, he was convicted in Switzerland of breaching secrecy laws and other offenses. He was rearrested immediately thereafter for having again distributed illegally obtained data to WikiLeaks. Julius Bär as well as select Swiss and German newspapers alleges that Elmer has doctored evidence to suggest the bank engaged in tax evasion.\n\nElmer was hired by Swiss bank Julius Bär during the early 1980s as a private banker in their Zürich offices. He worked at the bank as a private banker throughout the 1980s and 1990s before leading the bank's Caribbean operations from 1994 to 2002. In late 2001, Julius Bär internal security discovered that internal data had been stolen and required that every employee take a lie detector test for involvement. Elmer did not take the test the first time around due to his health and then later failed. He was then released from employment on these grounds, although he was still in possession of backup copies of data. According to the bank it was \"data theft committed with criminal intent\". After his resignation, he sent documents to various media, whereupon the bank called for an investigation of him and his family. In 2005, Elmer sold a Swiss business newspaper a CD with 169 megabytes of customer data, but was arrested shortly afterwards in Zurich on suspicion of violating Swiss banking secrecy law. He sat 30 days in custody. Soon after his parole he started a website for whistleblowers.\n\nOn 3 March 2008 the German magazine \"Der Spiegel\" revealed that Elmer was the source of documents that appeared some weeks earlier on WikiLeaks; \"Der Spiegel\" referred to them as partly authentic and partly fake. A California judge had the service provider of WikiLeaks block the site's domain (wikileaks.org) on behalf of Julius Bär on 18 February 2008, although the bank only wanted the documents to be removed. According Swiss television documentary show Rundschau, Elmer accused his bank of evading taxes by declaring bank work to have been carried out in the Cayman Islands, whereas the work was actually done in Switzerland. In 2008, Elmer released internal bank documents with customer data and other sensitive details to the Wikileaks website. According to these allegations, Julius Bär held their customers funds by funneling through investment frameworks of offshore accounts to increase profits for themselves and circumvent the Swiss tax authorities. Julius Bär denied this in a statement saying that all of its activities in the Cayman Islands were legal and did not violate of Swiss banking regulations. On 17 January 2011, Elmer met with Julian Assange of WikiLeaks at a press conference at London's Frontline Club to hand over two disks in public view of reporters. The records included information on 2000 account holders and came from three financial institutions, including Julius Bär. Assange said the data would be reviewed and published in full. A month later, Elmer stated in court that the disks were empty and thus contained no bank customer data.\n\nOn 19 January 2011, Elmer was ordered to answer before the Zurich District Court for breach of banking and business secrecy laws as well as a charge of coercion. Elmer was accused several times by bank employees to have harmed \"by violence and the threat of serious consequences\" and supposedly a bomb threat against the main building of the bank. In addition, he was tried for 2004 accusations of attempting to blackmail the bank of US$50,000, which did not respond to his offer. The publications on WikiLeaks were not part of the prosecution. The prosecutor demanded a prison term of eight months without parole and a fine of 2,000 Swiss francs. Elmer was sentenced to probation for a period of two years and fined about 5,600 euros on multiple counts of attempted coercion, threats and breaching of banking secrecy. He also was ordered to pay three-quarters of the court fees in the amount of 5,000 francs (about 3,900 euros). The presiding judge believed that Elmer had not become a whistleblower for ethical reasons, but for personal revenge: \"You were for many years part of the banking world and have benefited from it.\" On the same day of his conviction Elmer was arrested on renewed suspicion of violation of Swiss banking secrecy. Elmer had two days earlier handed over two disks with data of suspected bank customers to Julian Assange of WikiLeaks for publication as well as remanded data collection, which was published on WikiLeaks. On 22 January 2011, Elmer was brought into custody on the grounds of urgent suspicion and risk of collusion. Elmer appealed to the Supreme Court of the Canton of Zurich against the detention order. Elmer was summoned on 16 February 2011 before the court and testified that the disks were empty and thus contained no bank customer data. The court found Elmer's presentation as \"totally unbelievable\" and rejected the appeal due to the danger of collusion. In July 2011, the remanding was extended until October 2011. On 25 July 2011, Elmer was released from custody. After he left court he was re-arrested in connection with handing data to WikiLeaks only two days earlier, a move that was described by the prosecutor of the first case as contempt of court. On 25 July 2011, Elmer was set free.\n\nOn 17 November 2011, an appeal hearing was held at the Supreme Court of the Canton of Zurich. The Court made no judgment and sent the indictment back to the prosecutor and that it must review the investigation and supplement if necessary. As justification, the court stated that besides Elmer and the Bank, no one knew if this data actually existed in reality on the disks. It was difficult to decipher what data was actually on the disks. The judgment depends on whether the data from Swiss customers are from Switzerland, or those of the Cayman Islands, where the Swiss banking secrecy rights could not be applied. Thus, the bank was asked to explain the exact content of the CDs, which it had not done before. If Elmer is correct and dealing with \"Cayman - data\" he would be acquitted of charges of bank secrecy violation. Banking secrecy in the Cayman Islands is potentially punishable, although not \"per se\" in Switzerland.\n\nFurthermore, the court found that there was insufficient evidence that Elmer authored a \"significant threat\" against a legal services employee of the bank. In an e-mail from Mauritius, the sender threatened the employee, and claimed he was a killer and recognized him. It was not enough that Elmer had then lived and worked in Mauritius. It must be clarified where the email was sent directly from and who sent it. It is up to the prosecutor to obtain the necessary evidence. Elmer began a protest display outside the bank. While outside the bank he was routinely under surveillance by private detectives. It is alleged that the bank offered Elmer a monetary incentive to end his display. In May 2012, the Zurich High Court ruled in an interim decision that three CDs that Elmer is said to have sent to the tax authorities or the business newspaper \"Cash\" may be unsealed and evaluated by the prosecution. The bank renounced the possibility of lodging an appeal against this decision.\n\nThe criminal chamber of the Federal Court on 10 October 2018 - after a public hearing before judges (lasting 150 minutes - without the parties present) - by 3 votes to 2 gave a groundbreaking judgment in the case of Rudolf Elmer regarding violation of bank secrecy, and other matters. Most importantly, the charge of violation of Swiss bank secrecy alleged against the well-known whistleblower Elmer brought by the Higher Prosecution Office of the canton of Zurich was rejected by the Federal court and the acquittal of Rudolf Elmer by the High Court of the Canton of Zurich was confirmed. The Federal Court also upheld the complaint by Rudolf Elmer concerning the imposition of an advance payment for the release of confiscated data and documents as well as the modalities for the return of the personal data of the Elmer family. His complaint against the imposition of three-quarters of the costs of the case, including the investigation costs, in the amount of CHF 320,000, and against the penalty for convictions for document forgery and threatening behaviour, were rejected by the Federal court.https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-10-10/baer-whistleblower-to-learn-fate-in-war-over-cayman-data-leak, https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2018/10/18/a-court-ruling-knocks-another-hole-in-swiss-banking-secrecy\n\nThe Swiss newspaper \"Der Sonntag\" wrote in a December 2010 article that Elmer had confessed to threatening to kill several bank employees. Elmer said: \"I have certainly made mistakes. My emotions have been out of control.\" The newspaper also alleged that Elmer had forged several documents, which would damage his credibility as a whistleblower. Also, the bank alleged that erroneous data about customers was given to WikiLeaks. WikiLeaks had to apologize in at least one case to an individual involved. On his computer a letter to the right-wing party NPD in Germany was found, in which Elmer offered the party certain documents. Elmer reported the letter was never sent.\n\nConstantin Seibt wrote in the \"Tages-Anzeiger\": \"Rudolf Elmer is the model case of a whistleblower. He is no angel. Almost all whistleblowers are complex cases. They betray their companies not only from a sense of justice, but also for other reasons, such as wounded pride and grievances. And get caught up in it. The more that the case involves their lives, the more destructive is their struggle: dismissal, years of court cases, divorces, financial ruin - the impact of whistleblowing has similar consequences to a serious crime than a good deed\".\n\nIn July 2012, the Swiss Press Council received a complaint from Elmer on the weekly magazine \"World Week\" (WW). Journalist Alex Baur dubbed Elmer as a \"thief\" and \"blackmailer\" and sought to confront him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28944728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28944728", "title": "Short time", "text": "Short time\n\n\"For the films, see Short Time.\"\n\nShort-time working, short time, or short-timers are terms used in both civilian employee and in U.S. military contexts.\n\nShort-time working or short time is a situation or system in which civilian employees agree to or are forced to accept a reduction in working time and pay. The term can refer to short-term, recession-related programs operating in several European countries in which companies have entered into an agreement to avoid laying off any of their employees by instead reducing the working hours of all or most of their employees, with the government making up some of the employees' lost income. Employees who undergo training programs during their extra time off can often maintain their former incomes.\n\nIn Austria, the introduction of short time (' in German) requires a special arrangement between what are called the 'social partners' of Austrian collective bargaining (which is to say, the Chamber of Commerce and the labour unions), who negotiate on behalf of the employer and affected staff the scope of the ' arrangement in terms of the staff covered, the maximum period of its application, the conditions for any lay-offs during the arrangement, and the scope of any professional training or re-training courses included.\n\nIn 2009, the German government had budgeted 5.1 billion euros on the program, which replaced some of the lost income of over 1.4 million workers. The program was favorably cited in a 2009 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) report, which stated that it had saved nearly 500,000 jobs during the recession. Besides helping to avoid mass layoffs, proponents of the program also cite its keeping skilled work groups together and avoiding the atrophy of their skills during extended layoffs, while critics have expressed concerns about its expense and that it might prop up non-viable firms.\n\nIn U.S. military parlance, the term \"short\" or \"short-timer\" was coined during the Vietnam War era to describe personnel approaching the end of their tour and/or term of service. In \"Bloods: An Oral History of the Vietnam War by Black Veterans\" (1984), Specialist 5 Harold \"Light Bulb\" Bryant, Combat Engineer with the 1st Cavalry Division of the U.S. Army in An Khe from February 1966-February 1967 relates: \n\"We were in a fire fight one morning. We had our mad minute at six o'clock. We received some fire, and so we just started shooting. I guess maybe about eight o'clock a dust-off came in to take out a wounded guy. And they came and asked for me, and they told me that I was rotating. Going home right in the middle of the fire fight. I hadn't kept up with my days. I didn't have a short-time calendar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18180538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18180538", "title": "Social rights (social contract theory)", "text": "Social rights (social contract theory)\n\nSocial rights are those rights arising from the social contract, in contrast to natural rights which arise from the natural law, but before the establishment of legal rights by positive law. For example, James Madison advocated that a right such as trial by jury arose neither from nature nor from a constitution of government, but from reified implications of the social contract.\n\nCecile Fabre argues that \"it is legitimate to constrain democratic majorities, by way of the constitution, to respect and promote those fundamental rights of ours that protect the secure exercise of our autonomy and enable us to achieve well-being. Insofar as, by virtue of Ch. 1, social rights are such fundamental rights, it follows that they should be constitutionalized.\"\n\nFrom a legal standpoint several approaches exercise and guarantee social rights; social rights under the constitution are rights of subjects or \"subject rights\". This assures that the public receives equal distribution of collective and private interests.\n"}
{"id": "25244278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25244278", "title": "Symphony of Dialogue", "text": "Symphony of Dialogue\n\nSymphony of Dialogue (2009) by the Turkish composer Evrim Demirel reflects the composer's influences on both contemporary Western and traditional Turkish music. The piece based on the dialogue of diverse cultures; it embraces Christianity, Judaism and Islam in one work of art and conveys their peaceful messages through the music. The novelty of the “Symphony of Dialogue” is having a traditional Qur'an singer in a western way of composed music.\n\n“Symphony of Dialogue” is a pure message of peace and love through the music, which is entirely humanistic in its nature.\n\nMusical voyage starts on a steady sustained chord which appears throughout the piece. Stationary chord is interrupted by the timpani hits amplified with the piano. Interruptions evolve new textures and drag the piece into the more anxious musical territories. Steady and unsteady musical structures interact each other through the piece and the singers endeavor to keep music in a more restful atmosphere.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA symbolic expression from the birth to the death of the human being is moulded the form of the work. First tenor solo salutes people by singing a masnavi poem “ Merhaba” which is a part of Mawlid written by Süleyman Çelebi, refers to the observance of the birth of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. Then soprano delivers the message from the Bible that says “ I become a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal if I have no love”. Restful messages of the religions continues through the voice of the baritone who vocalize a Psalm from the Old Testament that expresses, “love will follow me all the days of my life”. Eventually three vocalists conclude the music with a poem by Yunus Emre.\n\n33 Min.\nThe piece commissioned by \"Het Nederlands Fonds voor Podiumkunsten\" and premiered by [\"Symfonieorkest De Philarmonie]www.dephilharmonie.nl\" conducted by \"Daan Admiraal\" in Muziekgebouw aan't IJ, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.\n\"Symphony of Dialogue\" is dedicated to Daan Admiraal\n\nTexts taken from New Testament, Old Testament, Qur'an as well as The Means of Salvation, (Vesîletü'n-Necât) or known as Mawlid by Süleyman Çelebi.\nCitation of “Tekbir” have been used from traditional Islamic culture as it is composed by Buhurizade Itri\n\nPoem called “Hak cihana doludur“ by Yunus Emre together with English version translated by Talât Sait Halman\n\nTexts from New Testament used in Latin, from Old Testament used in Hebrew, from Qur'an used in Arabic, from Mawlid in Turkish. During the piece fives languages take part including: Turkish, Latin, Hebrew, Arabic and English in the final.\n"}
{"id": "41691744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41691744", "title": "The Rats (video game)", "text": "The Rats (video game)\n\nThe Rats is a government simulation game and survival horror text adventure game that runs on the Commodore 64 and ZX Spectrum computers. It is based on the novel of the same name by James Herbert. The game was programmed by GXT (Five Ways Software), and published by Hodder & Stoughton, who were the publishers of James Herbert's book \"The Rats\". An Amstrad CPC version was planned, but was never released.\n\nThe game is generally played as a simulation that allow the player to strategically send emergency forces (rat exterminators, police men, fire men and eventually army troops) to areas where the rat threat has spread and provide them with available equipment. Also the player can get ten available researchers to develop addition weapons, defences and super weapons to keep the rats at bay and to provide useful information to progress in the game. Should the rat threat reach beyond the London limits, the Research centre, the Government centre or Harris' apartment or if all emergency forces are lost, the game is over.\n\nIn between the simulation game play, the game will suddenly switch to the role of a playable character in a randomly chosen text adventure scenario. The player has to select one or more verbal options to perform actions to allow the character to survive against the rat threat and avoid getting killed. While it is not crucial to keep the characters alive, saving them grants the player additional reinforcements and research to aid against the rat threat. However, if one of the main characters Harris, Howard or Foskins dies, the game is over.\n\nThe ZX Spectrum version of \"The Rats\" was well-received on release in 1985, gaining a 5-star rating in Sinclair User, a 4-star rating in Popular Computing Weekly, and a 5-star rating in ZX Computing. Crash awarded it 70% in its \"Frontline\" strategy section, giving the gameplay element 90% but marking the game down over issues to do with the loading sequence. It awarded it 7/10 in its \"Adventure Trail\" section of the same issue, again marking the game down for its loading sequence, but unlike the review in the strategy section, also for the gameplay.\n\nThe Commodore 64 version had mixed reviews, with a 79% in Zzap!64, 6/10 in Computer and Video Games, and 13/20 in Computer Gamer. Eurogamer published a retro game review on the C64 version in 2007, giving it 9/10.\n\nIt has been described as one of the first horror games, being games that seek to frighten players.\n\n"}
{"id": "56415421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56415421", "title": "Thurrock Independents", "text": "Thurrock Independents\n\nThurrock Independents is a group of British politicians in Thurrock, Essex that was formed after its members broke away from the UK Independence Party (UKIP) in January 2018. The group had seventeen members, including UKIP MEP Tim Aker, and forms the opposition group on Thurrock Council. The group was created after all seventeen members of the council's UKIP group left the party, saying they had \"had enough of the aggressive and bitter reality of party politics\". \n\nIn 2018, the former party leadership defected to the Conservative party; and were followed soon after by two incumbent councillors who joined the Conservative Group in November 2018. Following losses in the 2018 local election, this left the party with just ten councillors. \n\nAlthough Tim Aker joined his council colleagues in the new group, he subsequently stated that he would continue to represent UKIP in the European Parliament for the purposes of Brexit: \"UKIP has a job to do in the European Parliament in seeing we get the Brexit we voted for. I will stay as a UKIP MEP. But to better represent my constituents in Aveley, I had no choice but to follow my colleagues and represent the Thurrock Independents.\" This situation led to some uncertainty about the status of some of the group's members as a number of them work for Aker.\n"}
