{"id": "32491074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32491074", "title": "2011 Israeli social justice protests", "text": "2011 Israeli social justice protests\n\nThe 2011 Israeli social justice protests (), which are also referred to by various other names in the media, were a series of demonstrations in Israel beginning in July 2011 involving hundreds of thousands of protesters from a variety of socio-economic and religious backgrounds opposing the continuing rise in the cost of living (particularly housing) and the deterioration of public services such as health and education. A common rallying cry at the demonstrations was the chant; \"The people demand social justice!\".\n\nAs the protests expanded during August 2011, the demonstrations began to also focus on other related issues relating to the social order and power structure in Israel.\n\nThe housing protests which sparked the first demonstrations began as a result of a Facebook protest group that initially led hundreds of people to establish tents in the Rothschild Boulevard in the center of Tel Aviv, an act which soon gained momentum, media attention and began a public discourse in Israel regarding the high cost of housing and living expenses. Soon afterwards, the protests spread to many other major cities in Israel as thousands of Israeli protesters began establishing tents in the middle of central streets in major cities as a means of protest. As part of the protests, several mass demonstrations have been held across the country, in which hundreds of thousands of people have participated.\n\nA major focus of the protests have been what organizers have termed \"social justice\". Part of the movement is about changing the social order, and the economic system. Calls to topple the government were made by some parts of the protests. Criticism of the protests includes accusations of a political agenda rather than a social one with revelations of funding from specific left-wing individuals and organizations like S. Daniel Abraham and the New Israel Fund. Maariv journalist Kalman Libeskind claimed that the spontaneous protests had actually been three months in the planning by Stan Greenberg and orchestrated by left-wing organizations and the National Left. Criticism within the protests accused the 'protest leaders' of not publicizing specific goals, the lack of visibility of their goals, and the damaging impact of media focus being on a few activists.\n\nFollowing the first large-scale protests in early August, the government announced that a series of measures would be taken to solve the housing shortage, some of which were already under preparation and ratification, and some which were new measures proposed in response to the demands of the protest movement leadership. In addition, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu appointed a team of ministers and senior staff members from his office, headed by Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz, to negotiate with the protest leaders as well as the Trajtenberg Committee. Since that time, there was significant criticism of the Prime Minister's perceived insensitivity to the public sentiment, prompting speculation that general sympathy for the protest movement may cause one or more members of the governing coalition to leave the government, triggering national elections.\n\nOn 22 June 2012, Daphne Leaf and several other activists tried to restart the housing protests by re-erecting a tent encampment on Rothschild Boulevard. The municipality had not given a permit and as a result Leaf, along with eleven other activists, were arrested when they resisted the twenty policemen and municipal inspectors who arrived to dismantle the tents which were confiscated.\n\nThe most common name for the protests in Israel (both during and after the protests) was \"The social protest\" ( Ham\"echaa Hahevratit\") the protests have also been referred to as the Housing Protest ( \"Mechaat HaDiyur\"), Social justice protest ( \"Mechaat Tzedek Hevrati\"), the Cost of Living protest ( \"Mechaat Yoker HaMekhiya\"), the Real estate protest ( \"Mechaat HaNadlan\"), the Tents protest ( \"Mechaat HaOhalim\") and less frequently the middle class protest ( \"Mechaat Maamad HaBeynaim\").\n\nNumerous factors have led to the protests, in particular rising cost of housing and living expenses in Israel, but also various ongoing issues such as government corruption, rising poverty rates which the OECD defined as being twice the average of other developed countries, and a widening gap between rich and poor.\n\nDemographic structural factors, such as a large percentage of educated but dissatisfied youth within the population, extreme poverty in the haredi Jewish sector, and high unemployment in the Arab-Israeli population have spread the cause of the protests amongst a wide swathe of the Israeli population. Many have also blamed the erosion of Israel's traditional egalitarian socio-economic model for the rise in public dissatisfaction, claiming that the rise of American-style social structures in Israel is incompatible with Zionist ideology(The word Zion does not exist in the referred article).\n\nA major catalyst for public anger has been the significant rise in the cost of living, particularly for the lower and middle class. Although average salaries in Israel tend to be lower than those in the Western world, the cost of many consumer goods is relatively high – particularly basic necessities on which long established price controls have gradually been lifted. Since 2007, Israel has also experienced a gradual rise in housing prices. This increase followed a decade-long period of low housing costs, between 1996 and 2005, as well as a long history of significant government involvement in the public housing sector. According to data from the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics, from 2005 to 2011 apartment rental prices rose 34% on average, 49% in the Gush Dan region around Tel Aviv. A survey published by the Housing and Construction Minister of Israel revealed that in 2010, 129 average monthly salaries were required for the purchase of an average priced apartment, an amount significantly higher than countries in the Western world.\n\nIn April 2011, about three months before the cost of living protests began, Boaz Gaon, son of prominent Israeli businessman Benny Gaon, presented activists with a ten-point plan by Democratic pollster and political strategist Stan Greenberg to defeat the right-wing. It was recommended that not one organization should coordinate the struggle, rather to divide up the effort with as many initiatives in as many locations as possible. Maariv journalist Kalman Libeskind suggested that the protests were a result of this plan.\n\nDuring June 2011, a month before the housing protest began, another significant large scale demonstration took place in Israel. Commonly referred to by the media as the cottage cheese boycott, this event saw the Israeli public protest against the high cost of many products in Israel and specifically in this case, the high price of cottage cheese. The protest was successful and led to a drop in the retail price of cottage cheese. This was the first time in Israel that a public protest organized by means of social networking had such a wide public effect in Israel.\n\nIn July 2011, 25-year-old Israeli video editor Daphne Leef had to vacate the central Tel Aviv apartment where she had lived for three years due to major renovations in her building. Leef soon found out that apartment rental prices in the Tel Aviv metropolitan area had skyrocketed. Consequently, she initiated a small-scale public tent protest. Leef opened a Facebook protest page, inviting others to join her protest, and pitched a tent in Habima Square in Tel Aviv. In response, protesters gathered in the streets around Rothschild Boulevard in Tel Aviv, as well as in Zion Square in Jerusalem.\n\nThe use of Protest camps have been described by the protest leaders as being inspired by the Hooverville tent cities in the Central Park of New York City and in many other cities throughout the United States in which many Americans were forced to live during the Great Depression in the United States.\n\nThe use of social networks for public protests began to increase in the early 2010s, with the most significant one being the large-scale demonstrations in Arab countries in the Middle East that led to a change of government in several countries such as Egypt (see 2011 Egyptian revolution). Some see a connection between the Arab Spring protests and the 2011 Israeli housing protests, as the common denominator is, firstly, the use of social networking to organize public protests, and secondly the fact that these two waves of protests stem from the increase in the cost of living, that they were organized mostly by young people, and that the protesters claims include not only economic demands but also demands for changes in the policies and practices of the ruling government.\n\n\n\n\nTel Aviv has been at the epicenter of much of the crisis and has experienced ongoing protests every day from 14 July 2011 onwards. The largest protests were held in downtown Tel Aviv, which has been considered the protest movement's most effective symbol. Hundreds of thousands of people have been estimated to participate in the protests rallies in Tel Aviv. By late 2015, the social protest camp in Tel-Aviv, near the Arlozorov train station, is the only one remaining in Israel \nSome tents were established at Rishon-Lezion's municipal park already in late July 2011.\n\nOn 13 August 2011 circa 25,000 people turned out to demonstrate in the Haifa downtown protest with leading local activists, deputy mayor of haifa, Shai Abuhatsira and chairman of the university of Haifa students union, Yossi Shalom.\n\nOn 13 August 2011 more than 20,000 people turned out to demonstrate in Beersheba.\n\nThere were approximately 10 illegally built shacks in Jessie Cohen neighborhood in Holon, built by people from the lower class. On 7 September the shacks were evacuated.\n\nEven though the protest ebbed in late 2011, it was revived in 2012. From early 2012, plans were made by various groups to revive the protest. This time the municipality of Tel-Aviv made a preemptive move by warning about no tolerance for any tents being placed on Rothschild St., so tents were instead placed near the railway station in Tel-Aviv. This time protesters were divided in two major camps, as some activists criticized Leef for using upper class donors to finance her protest.\n\nOn 22 June 2012, Daphni Leef was arrested at a demonstration in Tel Aviv while her arm was broken. On the following day, her supporters held a massive demonstration where 85 protesters were arrested and glass windows of banks were smashed.\n\nAs a result of the split within the protest movement, two separate social justice demonstrations were held in Tel-Aviv on 14 July 2012, to commemorate the first anniversary of the social justice protest.\n\nThe Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu initially reacted to the protests by stating that he is aware of the crisis, and that \"the government is working to fix the plague that haunts us for many years. We are a small country, there is great demand and not enough apartments. Help me pass the reform in the Israel Lands Administration\". Netanyahu also clarified that \"It would take between a year to three years until we would begin seeing results.\"\n\nOn 26 July 2011, Prime Minister Netanyahu announced a new housing plan, including significant incentives for contractors who build smaller apartments, rent-earmarked housing and student housing, and plans to add 50,000 apartments to Israel's housing market over the next two years. The plan would allow contractors to purchase land from the Israel Land Administration up to 50% cheaper if they agree to build small apartments. Contractors bidding on rent-earmarked housing projects would be obligated to rent out 50% of their apartments built for a period of at least ten years, at 30% of their current value, and would be allowed to sell the other 50% of apartments at a price they can set. Contractors would be allowed to raise rent rates annually, in accordance with the consumer price index. Contractors and land developers who build student housing would be given land for free, but would have to agree to government-supervised rent rates for twenty years. Netanyahu's plan also called for six newly appointed national housing boards to authorize housing projects with little bureaucracy. The boards' mandate would be reviewed every eighteen months. Netanyahu also said that the government would promote the construction of 10,000 housing units for students, and would subsidize students' transportation to allow them to seek housing further away from universities.\n\nOn 8 August 2011, Prime Minister Netanyahu appointed a committee to pinpoint and propose solutions to Israel's socioeconomic problems. The committee's task was to hold discussions with \"different groups and sectors within the public\", and subsequently make proposals to the government's socioeconomic cabinet, headed by Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz. Professor Manuel Trajtenberg, chairman of the Planning and Budgeting Committee of the Council for Higher Education, former head of the National Economic Council, and the former Chief Economic Adviser to the Prime Minister, was appointed to head the committee. The committee consists of 14 members, 10 of whom are government or public officials.\n\nThe 2011 Israeli housing protests have no formal leadership.\n\nAmongst the most prominent activists in the protests are Daphne Leef, Stav Shaffir, Yigal Rambam, Jonathan Levy, Orly Weisselberg, Roee Neuman, Jonathan Miller, Regev Kontas, Adam Dovz'insky,Itzik Shmuli, Baroch Oren and Boaz Gaon. Actively contributing and supporting the protests were newspaper columnists Roy Arad and Shlomo Kraus.\n\nAdam Dovz'insky, who took a prominent part at the beginning of the protests with a hunger strike that ended when he collapsed and needed medical attention, would later declare that the Rothschild Blvd leadership does not want solutions but rather to topple the Netanyahu government, that the protests seemed to be the end themselves, not a means toward achieve negotiations. Dovz'insky also said he had information connected the protests with European anarchists.\n\nThe initial objective of the leaders of the protest movement focused on reducing the costs of housing in Israel. For the most part, the protest leadership has declared that they would not offer any concrete solutions to the crisis on the grounds that it is not their role, but the government's role. However, the demonstrators in Tel Aviv have promised to work together with the Knesset members and other decision makers to promote legislation aimed at protecting apartment renters against exploitation of their hardships by landlords, in a way that would correspond to similar legislation worldwide. At some of the public events, protesters call revolution, for Netanyahu's resignation, and the downfall of the government.\n\nNevertheless, in August 2011, as the protests grew significantly, the demands became more radical as they began to call for a sweeping overhaul of the Israeli economy and society which would change the current Neo liberal approach of the Netanyahu government to a more social approach. The list of demands for broader changes in the Israeli society and governance, articulated by protesters and activists, includes the following:\n\nMany movements and organizations have joined the protest. According to the Israeli newspaper \"Israel HaYom\", two weeks prior to the protest, the Israeli social movement \"the National Left\" sought people on Facebook \"who have unreasonable rent fees\" to start a campaign to lower the cost of housing for young people. On the day on which the protest began, \"the National Left\" movement called its activists to get to the Rothschild Boulevard, and organized the delivery of 20 tents to the encampment. In an interview with the Israeli morning show \"HaOlam HaBoker\" the chairman of the movement, Eldad Yaniv, addressed \"Israel HaYom\"'s report and explained that the movement \"organizes many protests like this throughout country and it just happened that this one became popular\". Several activists posted Daphne Leef's call on the movement's web site and invited their friends to join the encampment. The movement also initiated the establishment of a website to accompany the protest and assisted in managing the encampment, in part by the introduction of \"popular assemblies\" for making decisions on the conduct of the protest.\n\nThe protest also gained support from the National Union of Israeli Students and the local student unions throughout Israel, who helped establish the encampments and organized transportation to the demonstration in Tel Aviv. The Jewish U.S.-based non-profit organization \"New Israel Fund\" gave guidance and logistical support to the encampments in Kiryat Shmona, Be'er Sheva and elsewhere. The head of the Shatil activist wing of the New Israel Fund admitted that the group was working behind the scenes and coordinating multiple tent locations and published a report on its activities. Most of the protests were financed by online donations.\n\nThe Zionist extra-parliamentary group \"Im Tirtzu\", which initially supported the protests, later announced that it would stop its involvement due to the participation of the \"New Israel Fund\". The Bnei Akiva and the \"Rannim\" movements (both of the religious Zionism) announced that they would also stop their involvement in the protests in Tel Aviv. The \"Rannim\" movement later announced it would continue its participation in the protest but only in the Jerusalem encampment.\n\nThe protests were also joined by \"The Coalition for Affordable Housing\" and \"The Headquarters for a Liable Housing\" who bind the following organizations: Association for Civil Rights in Israel, Bimkom, Women Lawyers for Social Justice, Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel, Movement for Quality Government in Israel, Greenpeace Israel, Mizrahi Democratic Rainbow Coalition and the Israel Union for Environmental Defense. Additional organizations who joined the protests include the Koach La Ovdim General trade union, the Socialist–Zionist youth movements HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed and Hashomer Hatzair, the non-Zionist left-wing organization Ma'avak Sotzialisti the Israeli human rights organization Rabbis for Human Rights, Physicians for Human Rights-Israel, and the political parties Meretz and Hadash.\n\nThe protests also gained the support of various Israeli mayors and local councils, including the mayor of Tel Aviv Ron Huldai, the mayor of Jerusalem Nir Barkat and the chairman of the Union of Local Authorities in Israel, Shlomo Bohbot. Knesset members from both the coalition and the opposition have expressed their support for the struggle; some even visited the various protest encampments. Two weeks after the start of the protest, the chairman of the Histadrut, Ofer Eini, met with protest leaders and announced that the Histadrut would assist them in their contacts with the government.\n\nJimmy Wales, a co-founder of Wikipedia, visited the tent cities in Tel Aviv where the protests were taking place. He said, \"It's wonderful that in the democracy here, people have the right to go out and express their opinion. I do not know if I agree with the protest or not, because I'm not familiar with the economic and social situation in Israel, but the very fact that freedom of speech and discourse are free in Israel is remarkable.\"\n\nThe New Israel Fund had originally denied its role in the development of the protests, but in a January 2012 message, it says that the protestors \"organized themselves in new and existing organizations, virtual and community initiatives, local and national groups. Mapping the initiatives, which were initiated by Shatil and the New Israel Fund, outlines the role of this 'big bang'.\"\n\nAccording to a poll by Channel 10 on 2 August 2011, there is broad public support for the protesters, including 98% of Kadima supporters, and 85% of Netanyahu's Likud supporters.\n\nAlong with the massive support the housing protest has gained, as the protest kept developing and, various public figures and organizations, mostly affiliated with the political right in Israel, gradually increased their criticism of the protests and their organizers. Most of the criticism has focused on the allegations that the protests were not spontaneous, and that they were scheduled and planned by various left-wing media and political organizations in Israel. It is alleged that these organizations exploited the protests initiated by Daphne Leef as well as the economic distress that exists among large sections of the Israeli public in order to promote a political agenda that they finance, and which is primarily designed to overthrow the current right-wing government headed by Benjamin Netanyahu; it is alleged that finding actual solutions to the housing crises in Israel is only a secondary concern. The Tel-Aviv city hall was criticized for indirectly supporting the protests at 40,000ILS per day, price including electricity and clean services. While the protests in general have been peaceful, some incidents of violence have been reported. On 4 August 2011, two activists were arrested following an attempt to burn down the tent of right-wing activists participating at the Rothschild location. At a press conference held on 26 July 2011 Daphne Leef responded to the various allegations made against her and the protest organizers and stated the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3153225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3153225", "title": "Academic tenure", "text": "Academic tenure\n\nA tenured appointment is an indefinite academic appointment that can be terminated only for cause or under extraordinary circumstances, such as financial exigency or program discontinuation. Tenure is a means of defending the principle of academic freedom, which holds that it is beneficial for society in the long run if scholars are free to hold and examine a variety of views.\n\nThe modern conception of tenure in US higher education originated with the American Association of University Professors' (AAUP) 1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure. Jointly formulated and endorsed by the AAUP and the Association of American Colleges and Universities (AAC&U), the 1940 Statement is endorsed by over 250 scholarly and higher education organizations and is widely adopted into faculty handbooks and collective bargaining agreements at institutions of higher education throughout the United States. This statement holds that, \"The common good depends upon the free search for truth and its free exposition\" and stresses that academic freedom is essential in teaching and research in this regard.\n\nUnder the tenure systems adopted by many universities and colleges in the United States and Canada, some faculty positions have tenure and some do not. Typical systems (such as the widely adopted \"1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure\" of the American Association of University Professors) allow only a limited period to establish a record of published research, ability to attract grant funding, academic visibility, teaching excellence, and administrative or community service. They limit the number of years that any employee can remain employed as a non-tenured instructor or professor, compelling the institution to grant tenure to or terminate an individual, with significant advance notice, at the end of a specified time period. Some institutions require promotion to Associate Professor as a condition of tenure. An institution may also offer other academic positions that are not time-limited, with titles such as Lecturer, Adjunct Professor, or Research Professor, but these positions do not carry the possibility of tenure and are said to not be \"tenure track.\" Typically, they have higher teaching loads, lower compensation, little influence within the institution, few if any benefits, and little protection of academic freedom.\n\nAcademic tenure was eliminated in the United Kingdom in 1988. In its place there is the distinction between permanent and temporary contracts for academics. A permanent lecturer in UK universities usually holds an open-ended position that covers teaching, research, and administrative responsibilities.\n\nResearch lecturers (where they are permanent appointments) are the equivalent in rank of lecturers and senior lecturers, but reflect a research-intensive orientation. Research lecturers are common in fields such as medicine, engineering, and biological and physical sciences.\n\nAcademics are divided into two classes. On the one hand, professors (C2/W2 positions in the old/new system of pay grades) are employed as civil servants of the state and hold tenure as a highly safeguarded employment for life. On the other, there is a much bigger group of \"junior staff\" on fixed-term contracts, research grants, fellowships, and part-time jobs. In 2010, 9% of academic staff were professors, 66% were \"junior staff\" (including doctoral candidates on contracts), and 25% were other academic staff in secondary employment. Permanent research, teaching and management positions below professorship as an \"Akademischer Rat\" (a civil service position salaried like high school teachers) have become relatively rare compared to the 1970s and 1980s and are often no longer refilled after a retirement. In order to attain the position of Professor an academic must usually complete a \"Habilitation\" (a kind of broader second PhD thesis), after which she or he is eligible for tenureship. This means that, compared to other countries, academics in Germany obtain tenure at a relatively late age, as on average one becomes an Academic Assistant at the age of 42. In 2002 the \"Juniorprofessur\" position (comparable to an assistant professor in the US, but rarely endowed with a tenure track) was introduced as an alternative to \"Habilitation\". However, the degree of formal equivalence between a \"Habilitation\" and a successfully completed \"Juniorprofessur\" varies across the different states (\"Bundesländer\"), and the informal recognition of having served as a \"Juniorprofessur\" as a replacement for the \"Habilitation\" in the appointment procedures for professorships varies greatly between disciplines.\n\nDue to a university system that guarantees universities relative academic freedom, the position of professor in Germany is stronger and more independent than, for instance, in France. As civil servants, professors have a series of attendant rights and benefits, yet this status is subject to discussion; for example, the question of relating professorial pay to performance rather than merely to age is now being considered.\n\nMany argue, among other things, that the job security granted by tenure is necessary to recruit talented individuals into professorships, because in many fields private industry jobs pay significantly more. \n\nSome have argued that modern tenure systems diminish academic freedom, forcing those seeking tenured positions to profess conformance to the level of mediocrity as those awarding the tenured professorships. For example, according to physicist Lee Smolin, \"...it is practically career suicide for a young theoretical physicist not to join the field of string theory.\" \n\nEconomist Steven Levitt, who recommends the elimination of tenure in order to incentivize higher performance among professors, also points out that a pay increase may be required to compensate faculty members for the lost job security.\n\nSome U.S. states have considered legislation to remove tenure at public universities. \n\nA further criticism of tenure is that it rewards complacency. Once a professor is awarded tenure, he or she may begin putting reduced effort into their job, knowing that their removal is difficult or expensive to the institution.\n"}
{"id": "2669783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2669783", "title": "Alan Fletcher (graphic designer)", "text": "Alan Fletcher (graphic designer)\n\nAlan Gerard Fletcher (27 September 1931 – 21 September 2006) was a British graphic designer. In his obituary, he was described by \"The Daily Telegraph\" as \"the most highly regarded graphic designer of his generation, and probably one of the most prolific\".\n\nBorn in Nairobi, Kenya, Fletcher moved to England at age five, and studied at four art schools: Hammersmith School of Art, Central School of Art, Royal College of Art (1953–1956) and lastly Yale School of Art and Architecture at Yale University in 1956.\n\nFletcher was born in Nairobi, where his father was a civil servant. When his father was terminally ill he returned to England at the age of five with the rest of his family. He lived with his grandparents in Shepherd's Bush in West London, before being evacuated in 1939 to Christ's Hospital in Horsham.\n\nHe studied at the Hammersmith School of Art from 1949, then at the Central School of Art, where he studied under noted typographer Anthony Froshaug and befriended Colin Forbes, Terence Conran, David Hicks, Peter Firmin, Theo Crosby, Derek Birdsall and Ken Garland. After a year teaching English at Berlitz Language School in Barcelona, he returned to London to study at the Royal College of Art from 1953 to 1956, where he met Peter Blake, Joe Tilson, Len Deighton, Denis Bailey, David Gentleman and Dick Smith.\n\nHe married Paola Biagi, an Italian national, in 1956 (they met with a heated discussion about if orange and pink were a good or bad colour pair). He then took up a scholarship to study at the Yale School of Art and Architecture at Yale University, under Alvin Eisenman, Norman Ives, Herbert Matter, Bradbury Thompson, Josef Albers and Paul Rand. He visited Robert Brownjohn, Ivan Chermayeff and Tom Geismar in New York, became friends with Bob Gill, and was commissioned by Leo Lionni to design a cover for Fortune magazine in 1958. After a visit to Venezuela, he returned to London in 1959, having worked briefly for Saul Bass in Los Angeles and Pirelli in Milan.\n\nHe founded a design firm called 'Fletcher/Forbes/Gill' with Colin Forbes and Bob Gill in 1962. An early product was their 1963 book \"Graphic Design: A Visual Comparison\" in John Lewis's Studio Paperbacks series.\n\nClients included Pirelli, Cunard, Penguin Books and Olivetti. Gill left the partnership in 1965 and was replaced by Theo Crosby, so the firm became Crosby/Fletcher/Forbes. Two new partners joined, and the partnership evolved into Pentagram in 1972, with Forbes, Crosby, Kenneth Grange and Mervyn Kurlansky, with clients including Lloyd's of London and Daimler Benz. \n\nMuch of his work is still in use: a logo for Reuters made up of 84 dots, which he created in 1965, was retired in 1992, but his 1989 \"V&A\" logo for Victoria and Albert Museum, and his \"IoD\" logo for the Institute of Directors remain in use. In last years he designed the logo for the Italian School of Architecture \"Facolta' di Architettura di Alghero\", (University of Sassari). In 1962, he co-founded British Design & Art Direction, along with David Bailey, Terence Donovan, which was later renamed Designers and Art Directors Association (D&AD).\n\nHe left Pentagram in 1992, and worked from the home in Notting Hill that he had occupied since the early 1960s, where he was assisted by his daughter Raffaella Fletcher, Leah Klein and Sarah Copplestone, and worked for new clients, such as Novartis. Much of his later work was as art director for the publisher Phaidon Press, which he joined in 1993. For him, life and work were inseparable: \"Design is not a thing you do. It's a way of life.\" (quoted in his obituary in \"The Times\"). He would continue working, even on holiday, drawing on a notepad with a pencil.\n\nA book of his designs, \"Beware Wet Paint\", was published by Jeremy Myerson in 1994. Fletcher also wrote several books about graphic design and visual thinking, most notably \"The Art of Looking Sideways\" (2001), which had taken him 18 years to finish.\n\nAn exhibition of his life's work was displayed at the Design Museum in London between 11 November 2006 until 18 February 2007, alongside the posthumous publication of a book, \"Picturing and Poeting\". The exhibition went on tour in 2008. It was installed at the Ginza Graphic Gallery in Tokyo between the 9 and 31 May 2008, and was installed at the Pitzhanger Manor Gallery in Ealing, West London, between 14 November 2008 and 3 January 2009.\n\nHe won the 1993 Prince Philip Designers Prize given by the Design Council, was President of the D&AD (Designers and Art Directors Association) in 1973 and International President of the Alliance Graphique Internationale from 1982 to 1985. He was elected to the Hall of Fame of the New York Art Directors Club in 1994, was a senior fellow of the Royal College of Art in 1989 and became an honorary fellow of the London Institute in 2000.\n\nThe December 2006 limited-edition cover of Wallpaper* magazine featured one of his last works omitting his calligraphic signature in the compliments slip accompanying his completed work for he was too frail by then.\n\nHe died of cancer in London, and is survived by his wife and daughter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41777975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41777975", "title": "Aleksa Asanovic", "text": "Aleksa Asanovic\n\nAleksa Asanovic is professor of cello and solo cellist, teacher, conductor, director and founder of the first school of music for strings in Montenegro. \n\nAsanovic was born on 14 May 1945, in Podgorica (Montenegro). He graduated from the Music Academy in the class of Victor Jakovčić in Belgrade and then in the class of André Navarra in Skopje. \n\nHe has worked as a leader of symphonic orchestras, and was the director of \"Music Production RTCG\" and \"Symphony Orchestra RTCG.\" He has performed with more than 40 renowned pianists and conductors in Europe and America. Records for the purpose of broadcasting centers. He has received over 100 \"Golden Lira\", \"December awards liberation Podgorica\", \"Oktoih-a\", \"Legion of Honor\" medal \"Knight of literature and the arts\" and others. Asanovic has been a guest soloist with the UCO Symphony Orchestra. In April 2013 he performed several pieces at the Podgorica Spring Time Chamber Music Festival, celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Andre Navarra Music School.\n"}
{"id": "45317855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45317855", "title": "Altmetric", "text": "Altmetric\n\nAltmetric, or altmetric.com, is a data science company that tracks where published research is mentioned online, and provides tools and services to institutions, publishers, researchers, funders and other organisations to monitor this activity, commonly referred to as altmetrics. Altmetric was recognized by European Commissioner Máire Geoghegan-Quinn in 2014 as a company challenging the traditional reputation systems.\n\nAltmetric is a portfolio company of Digital Science, which is owned by Holtzbrinck Publishing Group.\n\nAltmetric was founded by Euan Adie in 2011. Previously a researcher, Adie had already worked on Postgenomic.com, an open source scientific blog aggregator founded in 2006. In 2011 Adie entered an altmetrics app into Elsevier’s Apps for Science competition and won. The prize money enabled Altmetric to develop a full version of the Altmetric Explorer, released in February 2012.\n\nIn July 2012 Altmetric took on additional investment from Digital Science and is still a part of the group today, with offices in London, Germany, the United States and Australia.\n\nA term first coined in the altmetrics manifesto in 2010, altmetrics (also known as ‘alternative metrics’) were developed to provide authors and other stakeholders a more comprehensive record of engagement with scholarly work, particularly that which takes place beyond the academy amongst a broader audience.\nIn order to do this, Altmetric tracks a range of online sites and sources looking for ‘mentions’ (links or written references) to scholarly outputs (which include journal articles, blogs, data sets and more). Sources of the attention include the mainstream media, public policy documents, social and academic networks, post-publication peer-review forums and, more recently, Wikipedia and the Open Syllabus Project.\n\nThe data are tracked in real-time and collated in the Altmetric details pages, which provide a clickable summary of all of the online attention relating to a single research output.\n\nAltmetric employs an algorithm to assign each item an automatically calculated score. Based on the volume and source of attention an item has received, the score is intended to reflect the reach or popularity of the research output. A multicolored ‘donut’ visualization is also generated to provide a summary of the sources of the attention that an item has received (red for news, light blue for Twitter, etc.).\nAltmetric make the data available via the Altmetric Bookmarklet, a browser plugin, the Explorer platform, a cloud-hosted database, and API.\n\nThe sources include academic citations and academic platforms, patents, posts on social media and web forums, Wikipedia artilces, users on Mendeley.\n\nMany publishers, including John Wiley & Sons, Taylor and Francis, The JAMA Network and Springer Nature embed the Altmetric ‘Donut’ Badges into their journal article and book pages to show the Altmetric score for individual items from within the publisher platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "1449711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449711", "title": "Andrei Shleifer", "text": "Andrei Shleifer\n\nAndrei Shleifer ( ; born February 20, 1961) is a Russian American economist and Professor of Economics at Harvard University, where he has taught since 1991. Shleifer was awarded the biennial John Bates Clark Medal in 1999 for his seminal works in three fields: corporate finance (corporate governance, law and finance), the economics of financial markets (deviations from efficient markets), and the economics of transition.\n\nIDEAS/RePEc has ranked him as the top economist in the world, and he is also listed as #1 on the list of \"Most-Cited Scientists in Economics & Business\". He served as project director of the Harvard Institute for International Development's Russian aid project from its inauguration in 1992 until 1997, where he and his associates made Russian investments, and settled a lawsuit from the U.S. government for such a violation of HIID's contract.\n\nHe was born to a Jewish family in the Soviet Union and emigrated to Rochester, New York, as a teenager in 1976, where he attended an inner-city school and learned English from episodes of \"Charlie's Angels\". He then studied mathematics, obtaining his B.A. from Harvard University in 1982. Following this, he went to graduate school in economics, acquiring his Ph.D. from MIT in 1986. As a freshman at Harvard, Shleifer took Math 55 with Brad DeLong; he has said that the course made him realize he was not destined to be a mathematician, but the experience gave him a future co-author. Shleifer also met his mentor and professor, Lawrence Summers, during his undergraduate education at Harvard. The two went on to be co-authors, joint grant recipients, and faculty colleagues.\n\nHe has held a tenured position in the Department of Economics at Harvard University since 1991 and was, from 2001 through 2006, the Whipple V. N. Jones Professor of Economics. Previously, he taught at the Graduate School of Business at The University of Chicago and briefly at Princeton University.\n\nShleifer's earliest work was in financial economics, where he has contributed to the field of behavioral finance. He has also written influential papers on political economy, the economics of transition, and economic development, collaborating with his former colleagues in Chicago, Kevin M. Murphy and Robert W. Vishny. Their paper \"Industrialization and the Big Push\" was credited by Paul Krugman as a major breakthrough which ended a \"long slump in development theory\".\n\nWith coauthors Rafael La Porta, Simeon Djankov and Florencio Lopez de Silanes, Shleifer has also made significant contributions to the study of corporate governance.\n\nIn recent years, his research has focused on the legal origins theory (also sometimes known as \"law and finance\" theory), which claims that the legal tradition a country adheres to (such as common law or various types of civil law) is an important determining factor for a country's development, most of all financial development.\n\nThe Clark medal citation described him as a \"superb economist, working in the old Chicago tradition of building simple models, emphasizing basic economic mechanisms, and carefully looking at the evidence... A recurring theme of his research is the respective role of markets, institutions, and governments.\"\n\nIn 1994 Shleifer founded with fellow academics—and behavioral finance specialists—Josef Lakonishok and Robert Vishny a Chicago-based money management firm known as LSV Asset Management. As of February 2006, it managed about $50 billion in quantitative value equity portfolios, though, according to the firm's website, Shleifer has sold his ownership stake.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, Andrei Shleifer headed a Harvard project under the auspices of the Harvard Institute for International Development (HIID) that invested U.S. government funds in the development of Russia's economy. Schleifer was also a direct advisor to Anatoly Chubais, then vice-premier of Russia, who managed the Rosimushchestvo (Committee for the Management of State Property) portfolio and was a primary engineer of Russian privatization. Shleifer was also tasked with establishing a stock market for Russia that would be a world-class capital market. In 1996 complaints about the Harvard project led Congress to launch a General Accounting Office investigation, which stated that the Harvard Institute for International Development (HIID) was given \"substantial control of the U.S. assistance program.”\n\nIn 1997, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) canceled most of its funding for the Harvard project after investigations showed that top HIID officials Andre Shleifer and Jonathan Hay had used their positions and insider information to profit from investments in the Russian securities markets. Among other things, the Institute for a Law Based Economy (ILBE) was allegedly used to assist Shleifer's wife, Nancy Zimmerman, who operated a hedge fund which speculated in Russian bonds.\n\nIn August 2005, Harvard University, Shleifer and the Department of Justice reached an agreement under which the university paid $26.5 million to settle the five-year-old lawsuit. Shleifer was also responsible for paying $2 million worth of damages, though he did not admit any wrongdoing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4134235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4134235", "title": "Barristers' Ball", "text": "Barristers' Ball\n\nThe Barristers' Ball is an annual event held at most law schools in common law countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia, and the United Kingdom. It is generally a formal/semi-formal affair, often near the end of the academic year, conducted by the institution's Student Bar Association as a school-wide gathering.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27417419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27417419", "title": "CCIE Certification", "text": "CCIE Certification\n\nThe Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert, or CCIE, is a technical certification offered by Cisco Systems. \nThe Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert (CCIE) and Cisco Certified Design Expert (CCDE) certifications were established to assist the industry in distinguishing the top echelon of internetworking experts worldwide and to assess Expert-level infrastructure network design skills worldwide. These certifications are generally accepted worldwide as the most prestigious networking certifications in the industry. The CCIE and CCDE community has established a reputation of leading the networking industry in deep technical networking knowledge and are deployed into the most technically challenging network assignments. The Expert-level certification program continually updates and revises its testing tools and methodologies to ensure and maintain program quality, relevance and value. Through a rigorous written exam and a performance-based lab exam, these expert-level certification programs set the standard for internetworking expertise.\n\nThe program is currently divided into six different areas of expertise or \"tracks\". One may choose to pursue multiple CCIE tracks in several different categories of Cisco technology: Routing & Switching, Service Provider, Security, Collaboration, Data Center, and Wireless.\n\nCCIE candidates must first pass a written qualification exam and then the corresponding hands-on lab exam. Though there are no formal requirements to take a CCIE certification exam, an in-depth understanding of the topics on the exams and three to five years of job experience are expected before attempting certification. \n\nThere are two test sets for the requirement for certification \nDetails: The CCIE Routing and Switching Lab exam consists of a 2 hour Troubleshooting section, a 30 minute Diagnostic section, and a 5 hour and 30 minute Configuration section. The format differs per track.\n\nThe eight-hour lab exam tests your ability to configure actual equipment and troubleshoot the network in a timed test situation. You must make an initial attempt at the CCIE lab exam within 18-months of passing the CCIE written exam. Candidates who do not pass must reattempt the lab exam within 12 months of their last scored attempt in order for their written exam to remain valid. If you do not pass the lab exam within three years of passing the written exam, you must retake the written exam before being allowed to attempt the lab exam again.\n\nThe CCIE lab exam was first introduced in 1993 with a two-day test. As there was the overwhelming demand to CCIE, the waiting time for taking the lab exam was at least six months. \nIn October 2001, Cisco updated the two days lab exam to one day by removing some of the testing measures like diagramming, IP addressing and troubleshooting. \n\nWhen the CCIE lap test was two days: \n\nTo configure the devices correctly, you should be aware of the core technologies, \nThere are various hazards which you should understand the basic networking knowledge including practical experience. The Proctor would observe your process and let you know whether you can attend the afternoon exam session for the troubleshooting field before the end of the day. \n\nThe current CCIE exam consists of eight hours within a day. \n\nYou would receive the result of the lab exam within 48 hours. The failing score reports incorporate the details of your mark on the primary topic ranges. If you pass your lab exam, you will receive the pass result without the details of the statement.\n\nThere are seven tracks of Expert Level certifications. It was designed for the requirement of the industry. It was updated over time, and the latest tracks should be verified on CCIE official website. \n\n\nActive CCIE holders are able to apply for CCIE Emeritus status when they pass their ten year anniversary of CCIE certification.\n\nThe Continuing Education Program is alternative way of re-certification for the CCIE license instead of passing the written exam. \nThis program is managed according to three core principles: Flexibility, Diversity and Integrity. \n\nRegarding a new approach to networking with software-defined networking,\nthere are some critics about CCIE certifications that challenge corner-case scenarios of written and lab exams. \nHowever, the principle of networking is still the same and a router or a switch is a physical device or just a piece of software, the fundamental networking operations remain the same in the real-world internetworking. CCIE holders are still relevant to the software-defined networking era. \n\n"}
{"id": "28774110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28774110", "title": "Canadian Accredited Independent Schools", "text": "Canadian Accredited Independent Schools\n\nCanadian Accredited Independent Schools (CAIS) is a national organization for independent schools in Canada. The Canadian Association of Independent Schools (also known as CAIS) was established in 1981 as a national network for member schools supporting collaborative initiatives in leadership, education, management and governance. Its key activities included organizing, co-ordinating, and facilitating conferences, benchmarking, senior management compensation surveys, and advocacy. \n\nIn parallel, the Canadian Educational Standards Institute (CESI) was established in 1986 as an organization to develop and promote educational excellence and school improvement in independent schools. Its key activities were to establish national Standards/Best Practices and accreditation process, conducting 10 accreditation visits per year, and research and targeted Professional Development. In October 2009, votes were held at the Annual General Meetings for CAIS and CESI to create a new national organization, and after extensive consultation with membership, the organization changed its name to Standards in Excellence and Learning (SEAL Canada). However, in February 2011, the organization changed its name to Canadian Accredited Independent Schools (CAIS). Canadian Accredited Independent Schools (CAIS) in February 2011. Until \n\nCAIS encompasses 91 accredited independent schools, and its aim is to collaborate in the pursuit of exemplary leadership training, research and international standards of educational excellence. The stated vision of the organization is to be \"the voice of excellence in learning and leadership, we shape the future of education in Canada and the world.\" According to the CAIS website, there are two CAIS-accredited schools in Bermuda and one in Switzerland.\n\n"}
{"id": "4032963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4032963", "title": "Charles Franklin Phillips", "text": "Charles Franklin Phillips\n\nCharles Franklin Phillips (May 25, 1910 – March 3, 1998) was an American economist who served as the fourth President of Bates College from March 1944 to November 1967. Previous to his assumption of the Bates presidency, he was the deputy administrator of the U.S. Office of Price Administration from March 1937 to July 1941.\n\nUpon being elected the youngest president in Bates history at 34, he increased the student body to 1,004, created the college's study-abroad program, and added $5 million to the endowment, more than quadrupling it. At his death he left $9 million to the college in his will and testament. He was known for employing economic principles of competition and market share when dealing with students which ultimately lead him to be successful institutionally but unpopular with students.\n\nPhillips was born in Nelson, Pennsylvania on May 25, 1910. He went on to earn a bachelor's degree in economics from Colgate University and a Ph.D. from Harvard University. Phillips then went on to teach, research, and write as an economics professor at Colgate. He served as the deputy administrator in the United States Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supplies from March 10, 1937 to July 1, 1941.\n\nHe was a full professor at Colgate and a leading economist before coming to Bates.\n\nAt age 34, Phillips became the fourth president of Bates College, on March 1, 1944. As president, Phillips initiated the core study program and 3/4 option allowing students to graduate in three years. He also initiated the study abroad program, oversaw the construction of many new buildings at Bates, and had the college's observatory demolished. He is known for initiating the Bates academic program of Education, championing the most traditional strength of the Bates: the liberal arts which featured a core curriculum of liberal arts. He also championed \"3/4 option,” permitting a three-year degree from Bates. Phillips expanded the campus with the additions of Memorial Commons (now known as Chase Hall), Health Center, Dana Chemistry Hall, Lane Hall, Page Hall, and Schaeffer Theater.\n\nCharles Franklin Phillips died on March 3, 1998 in Auburn, Maine.\n\nUpon his death, he and his wife, Evelyn, left $9,000,000 to Bates in his will and testament. This bequest was used to fund the Phillips Fellowships, which are granted to students for research abroad. Phillip's donation is believed to be the largest bequest by an American college president to a college that he did not attend.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21887930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21887930", "title": "Cognitive strategy", "text": "Cognitive strategy\n\nCognitive strategies are the specific methods that people use to solve problems, including all sorts of reasoning, planning, arithmetic, etc. Importantly, a cognitive strategy need not be all \"in the head\", but will almost always interact with various aspects of what might be called the \"execution context\".\n\nA commonly used and elegant example of cognitive strategies comes from small-number addition. There are numerous different ways (i.e., different strategies) by which one can get the sum of two (let's say) one digit numbers, for example 3+4 (=7). The way that most adults would solve this problem is by simply remembering the answer (a \"memory\" strategy), but a toddler would probably use one of a number of different finger-counting strategies. For example, one can represent the first addend (3) on one's left hand by raising three fingers, and then do the same with four fingers on the right hand, and then count up the number of fingers that are raised. But there are many other ways to do this. For example, one can do the same first step (raise three fingers on one's left hand), and then start counting from 4 as one raises four more fingers one at a time on either the right hand, or even starting from the fourth finger on the left hand (which would require continuing from 6 on the right hand). Different strategies may have very different characteristics in terms of their time and space complexity, memory requirements, etc., and therefore in terms of their error characteristics.\n\n"}
{"id": "35561389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35561389", "title": "Commission Nationale de la Certification Professionnelle", "text": "Commission Nationale de la Certification Professionnelle\n\nThe Commission nationale de la certification professionnelle (CNCP, in English National Commission for Vocational Certification) is a French inter-ministerial commission, interprofessional and interagency. It has been created by the social modernization law (No. 2002-73). It is under the authority of the Minister responsible for vocational training.\nIt is composed of sixteen departmental officials, ten social partners, three elected representatives of chambers, three elected representatives of regions and twelve qualified persons. These commissioners are appointed by order of the Prime Minister for a period of five years renewable.\nIt replaces the \"Commission technique d’homologation des titres et diplômes de l’enseignement technologique\" (Technical Commission for approval of foreign education qualifications technological).\n\nThe commission has several missions:\n\nThe CNCP is based on the work of a specialized committee, a permanent secretariat and a network of regional correspondents. It contributes to the international work the transparency of qualifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6870340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6870340", "title": "Commissioner's Academic Challenge", "text": "Commissioner's Academic Challenge\n\nThe Commissioner's Academic Challenge (CAC) is Florida's statewide high school quiz bowl-like academic tournament. It has been held at the Grand Floridian Resort in Walt Disney World each spring, usually in April, since 2015 (previously, it was held at the Contemporary Resort). Each county school board in Florida is asked to send a team composed of six high school students. Participating counties are separated into three divisions based on their full-time enrollment numbers for grades 9-12.\n\nTeams compete in up to four untimed matches, with each match consisting of 1) the 5-point question round of 20 \"Button\" questions, followed by a 10-point Team Question, 2) the 10-point question round of 20 \"Button\" questions, followed by a 20-point Team Question, and 3) the 15-point round of 25 \"Button\" questions followed by a 30-point Team Question. Button questions are quick-response toss-ups, answered by only one team, with correct answers earning points and incorrect answers losing points. The Team Questions are written worksheets, completed by each team, requiring several minutes to complete. Teams earn points for each correct answer, and are not subject to losing points for incorrect answers as they are in Button questions. The questions asked become progressively harder in each round and cover a variety of fields including English, math, science, social studies, art, music, foreign language (French and Spanish), technology, and multi-subject. The questions take a variety of forms, such as matching, multiple choice, fill-in-the-blank, and free response.\n\nOnly four players may compete during a given round, but coaches are allowed to make substitutions between rounds. Most matches feature somewhere between four and six teams competing at the same time. A panel of judges is present in each competition room to deliberate if a challenge is declared by a team. These judges are experts in their field of study. A Reader reads most of the questions, aloud, to all the teams in the competition. Some questions, such as foreign language, music, art and physics are written and are distributed on handouts, simultaneously, to all participants. Others, such as music, are played as audio tracks, and some, such as foreign language are displayed as video tracks. A Coordinating Judge manages the competition in the match, which, although untimed, generally runs about two hours.\n\nThe CAC is unlike many other quizbowl tournaments in that it is a slower-paced, more team-oriented competition. Team members are allowed to converse with each other at all times, and instead of having individual buzzers, each team is provided with only one or two buzzers that they must share. The CAC also differs from most tournaments in that there is no \"rebounding.\" This means that once a team has buzzed in on a question, that question is finished regardless of whether the team gave a correct or incorrect response.\n\nAt the conclusion of the tournament, the top three teams in each division receive rings from Herff Jones, while the championship and second place teams also receive trophies and medallions from the Florida High School Athletic Association.\n\nIn addition, one winning player from each of the three championship counties, and three other players selected \"at large,\" are chosen to serve on Team Florida, which competes at the National Tournament of Academic Excellence in June.\n\nThe tournament began in 1986 and changed names several times before settling on its present title in 1997. The following is a list of winning counties:\n\n"}
{"id": "1170640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170640", "title": "Core Curriculum (Columbia College)", "text": "Core Curriculum (Columbia College)\n\nThe Core Curriculum was originally developed as the main curriculum used by Columbia University's Columbia College in 1919. Today, customized versions of the Core Curriculum are also completed by students in the School of Engineering and Applied Science and the School of General Studies (the other two undergraduate colleges of Columbia University).\n\nThe curriculum began in 1919 with \"Contemporary Civilization\", about the origins of western civilization. It became the framework for many similar educational models throughout the United States. Later in its history, especially in the 1990s, it became a heavily contested form of learning, seen by some as an appropriate foundation of a liberal arts education, and by others as a tool of promoting a Eurocentric or Anglocentric society by solely focusing on the works of \"dead white men\". In response, the College added requirements for courses in \"major cultures\" during the 1980s. Recent controversy over the \"Core\" has been related to whether visiting artists to Columbia should have their works added to the syllabus, as was the case with a play by Václav Havel in Fall 2006. A major addition to the core was made in the 2000s, when a science literacy course was added.\n\nUS universities, including Harvard, had seen a trend towards more elective programs during the late 19th century. Columbia's president Frederick Augustus Porter Barnard supported this trend, but his stance lost ground at the College over the following decades. Previously, a liberal arts education rarely focused directly on a major, but would focus on both Greek and Latin classics. The changes were first initiated in the 1880s with the inclusion of courses in study of a \"modern language\". This change, along with a latter change in campus location preceding World War I set the stage for a major change in curricula focus after the war. The \"Contemporary Civilization\" course of the time has also been described as a direct response to the US entry into the war, seeking to encourage US involvement by stressing the importance of Western civilization. Its persistence has been attributed to the College's wish to retain authority and autonomy with regard to the university's more specialized graduate programs.\n\nIn the later half of the 20th century US universities moved towards a more elective system. Some historians see the change as a response to social activism - the civil rights, feminist, and various other social movements saw the core curriculum as an inflexible way to promote the canon of \"dead white males\" and as a failure to acknowledge the essential contributions of other global cultures. Others interpret it as a concession to increasing calls for earlier specialization to prepare students for post-graduate scientific and professional studies.\n\nThe Core Curriculum at Columbia has been extended to consider \"Major Cultures\" as well as greater depth of study in art and music. While Columbia has maintained its Core Curriculum, other undergraduate institutions have either abandoned or modified similar approaches, turning from a prescribed set of courses to \"distribution\" requirements that aim to ensure educational breadth. The latter are sometimes described as a \"core curriculum\"; Harvard's review of its requirements illustrates this approach.\nThe most recent addition to the Core (2004) is Frontiers of Science. Frontiers attempts to break the \"pyramid\" of science education: years of chemistry, math and physics as prerequisites to courses on current scientific research. One aim of Frontiers is to teach \"Scientific Habits of Mind\", a set of analytical approaches that apply to all disciplines of science. Frontiers is taught as four, 3 week units: two from the physical sciences (for example, Astronomy and Geology) and two from the life sciences (for example, Neuroscience and Biodiversity). Outside of Columbia, Frontiers has evoked widespread interest from colleges and universities seeking to initiate or modify a general education science course. Material developed for Frontiers of Science are available online.\n\nThe Core Curriculum is an example of what was adopted by many educational institutions in the years following its introduction. All first-year students in the college must take the year-long \"Masterpieces of Western Literature\" course (known as \"Literature Humanities\" or Lit Hum), the semester-long \"University Writing\", and the semester-long \"Frontiers of Science\". All sophomores are required to take a year of \"Contemporary Civilization\" (known as CC). The other requirements, which can be completed any year, include a semester of \"Music Humanities\"; a semester of \"Art Humanities\"; two semesters of science, four semesters of a foreign language, two semester-long courses about non-Western major cultures, and two semesters of physical education. Students are also required to pass a swimming test before receiving their diplomas, a common feature among Ivy League colleges.\n"}
{"id": "58262068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58262068", "title": "Eau Claire Vocational School", "text": "Eau Claire Vocational School\n\nThe Eau Claire Vocational School is located in Eau Claire, Wisconsin.\n\nThe building served as a factory for several years for companies that built trunks, suitcases, telescope cases and phonographs. After being used as a warehouse, it was converted into a vocational school by the National Youth Administration in the early 1940s. During World War II, women were trained at the school to build equipment for the war effort.\n\nIn 1967, the school moved to larger facility and was later renamed the Chippewa Valley Technical College. Its former site would be used by the city to house its parks and recreation department. In 2014, it was added to the State and the National Register of Historic Places.\n"}
{"id": "1487194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1487194", "title": "Education in Korea", "text": "Education in Korea\n\nHistorically, Korea was differently ruled and named. The official records on organised education start with Three Kingdoms period.\n\n\nSince 1945, Korea has been divided into two separate countries\n"}
{"id": "18103326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103326", "title": "Education in Tunisia", "text": "Education in Tunisia\n\nSince gaining independence from France in 1956, the government of Tunisia has focused on developing an education system which produces a solid human capital base that could respond to the changing needs of a developing nation. Sustained structural reform efforts since the early 1990s, prudent macroeconomic policies, and deeper trade integration in the global economy have created an enabling environment for growth. This environment has been conducive to attain positive achievements in the education sector which placed Tunisia ahead of countries with similar income levels, and in a good position to achieve MDGs.\nAccording to the HDI 2007, Tunisia is ranked 90 out of 182 countries and is ranked 4th in MENA region just below Israel, Lebanon, and Jordan. Education is the number one priority of the government of Tunisia, with more than 20 percent of government’s budget allocated for education in 2005/06. As of 2006 the public education expenditure as a percentage of GDP stood at 7 percent.\nTunisian education system was built on the French model, therefore, the focus of the education reformers was to Arabize curriculum and faculty at nation’s schools and universities. Tunisia adopted a phased approach towards Arabization. Given the number of Francophone nationals and the absence of qualified Arabized teachers to teach scientific subjects, policy makers maintained French both as a foreign language and as a medium of instruction for math and science in primary education. Humanities and social sciences were Arabized incrementally, initially in primary and subsequently in secondary education. In the 1970s, the decision was made to extend Arabization to all subjects in post-primary education, except vocational, professional, and technical tracks. At the university level, French was maintained as the language of instruction in technical institutes and science faculties.\nThere have also been several other reforms since independence to further improve the education system at all levels:\n\n1)Education is an important Law that actually passed in 1958 emphasized technical and vocational education, and the training of a new breed of educators who are qualified to teach the new curriculum emphasizing Arabic language, literature, Islamic thought and history and geography of the Tunisian and North African region.\n\n2)Then a Higher Education Law was passed that placed all government recognized institutions of higher learning and scientific research under the umbrella of University of Tunis, an institute that was established in 1960, by incorporating several existing higher schools and institutes.\n\n3)In the academic year of 1990-91, the New Education Act introduced an increased length of instruction at the primary and secondary levels from 12 to a total of 13 years. It also made it mandatory for students of ages between 6–16 years of age to attain basic education training.\n\n4)Tunisia introduced competency-based approach in school curriculum in 2000, and revised textbooks accordingly.\n\n5) The 2002 Education Act emphasized the importance of ICT in the education sector.\n\nThe academic year runs from September to June and examinations are held in late June or early July.\n\nThe Tunisian government has shown strong commitment towards pre-school education. Pre-school education is to be imparted in establishments or specifically designated places to the children from three to six years of age.\nIn Tunisia the pre-school education is provided primarily in three settings:\n\n\"Kindergartens\"- These are socio-educational institutions that come under the supervision of Ministry of Women, Family, and Childhood and they belong to either private sector, the quasi-public local authorities or specialist associations. There has been considerable improvement in the coverage of kindergartens from 7.1 percent in 1990 to 14 percent in 2000.But this rate is still low primarily because most 3 to 6-year-olds do not attend kindergarten.\n\n\"Kouttabs\" - These religious institutions also cater for children between 3 and 5 years of age. Their task is to initiate them into learning the Quran as well as reading, writing, and arithmetic. They are under the supervision of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Reforms have enabled to increase the number of these schools from 378 in 1987 to 961 in 2007. These Kottabs host 25,194 children,11,138 of whom are girls. They are run by mold dibs(teachers)among whom 121 hold degrees in Islamic Sciences, and 60 hold university degrees. A presidential project, “Tomorrow Tunisia”, has been launched to further support Kouttabs so that they fulfill their education mission of consolidating values of religion.\n\n\"Preparatory year's is also an integral part of basic education but it is not compulsory. It is supervised by the Ministry of Education and Training and is provided in public, private and quasi-public primary schools.\nThe gross enrollment rate at pre-primary has increased steadily since 2000 from 15 percent to 22 percent in 2003.\n\n\"Enseignement de base\" consists of nine years of school education and is divided into two distinct stages: 6 years of primary and 3 years of preparatory education (lower secondary). At the end of 9 years students sit for \"examen national de fin d’Études de l’enseignement de base\", success in which leads to the \"Diplôme de Fin d’Études de l’Enseignement.\"\nStudents are required to score above 50 percent at the end of sixth grade to progress to the lower secondary level. Although there is a high percentage of students who fail the important grade 6 examinations. Now due to government efforts, the number of students who have to repeat grade 6 is decreasing. In 1991-92, 26 percent of students had to repeat grade 6. But in 1999-2000 that number has dropped to 18 percent. The drop out rate at the primary level is 6 percent and it halved from the drop out the percentage of 12 percent in 2000. The gross enrollment ratio at primary and secondary is greater than 1 which shows that more girls than boys are enrolled at these two education levels. The share of private enrollment at primary level has been slowly increasing from 0.7 percent in 2000 to 0.9 percent in 2003 and in 2007 the private enrollment share was 1.4 percent. The gross enrollment ratio at lower secondary level in 2007 stood at 113 percent, a jump of about 7 percentage points from the GER in 2006.\n\nAlso at the beginning of the 2007/208 school year, 9 Pioneer middle schools were launched to offer gifted students early care that will allow them to pursue their studies in pioneer schools in scientific, literary and art fields, with competent and experienced teachers.\n\nThe four years of secondary education are open to all holders of Diplôme de Fin d'etudes de l’Enseignement de Base where the students focus on entering university level or join the workforce after completion. The Enseignement secondary is divided into two stages: general academic and specialized.\n\nIn the academic stream all students follow a common curriculum for one year after which they choose one of the five specializations from language arts, sciences, and economics and management in case the student is specializing in science at the end of the second year he must choose again but this time between math,experimental sciences, computer sciences or technical sciences . The language of instruction in technical, scientific and mathematics fields is French. At the end of the fourth year of secondary studies, students take Examen National du Baccalauréat. Students are tested on average on six subjects. Those students who complete the secondary cycle, but fail the baccalaureate are awarded a certificate of completion that can later be used for entry into the workforce or for entry to further studies in a private school. In 1995 42.5 percent of baccalaureate takers were successful. However, Tunisia has been appearing in TIMSS since 1999 and has been one of the top performing countries in the Arab region. In 2007, Tunisia ranked second in mathematics and third in science in all of the Arab countries appearing in TIMSS\n, inInternationalwith scores 420 and 445 respectively. The gender parity index of gross enrollment ratio at the secondary level was 1.1 percent in 2006, implying higher female enrollment than male enrollment at the secondary level.\n\nProfessional and vocational programs are administered by the Ministry of Employment, and in more specific disciplines by individual ministries such as agriculture and tourism.\nStudents can opt to enroll in a two-year vocational program leading to the award of dice the Certificat d’Aptitude Professionnelle. These students who have completed the first two years of secondary education may enroll in two-year vocational programs leading to the award of the \"Brevet de Technicien Professionnel\", which in turn gives access to two-year \"Brevet de Technicien Supérieur\" programs. The enrollment in TVET at the secondary level has also been rising since 2004.The current(2007) enrollment ratio in TVET is almost 10 percent, with a higher percentage of males enrolled in these programs.\n\nThe higher education system in Tunisia has experienced a rapid expansion and the number of students has more than tripled over the past 10 years from approximately 102,000 in 1995 to 365,000 in 2005.The gross enrollment rate at the tertiary level in 2007 was 31 percent, with gender parity index of GER of 1.5. The private university system in Tunisia, accounting for about one percent of students, remains small because the regulatory environment does not encourage foreign investment or the use of part-time teachers in private universities.\n\nIn Tunisia in 2005–2006, there were 178 public institutions of higher education among which there were 13 universities, 24 higher institutes of technological studies and six higher institutes of teachers' training. The Higher Education Ministry (HEM) supervises 155 institutions and 23 are under the co-supervision of the HEM and other ministries. In addition HEM recognizes 20 university-level private institutions. The public university system is virtually free and student loans are not available for students enrolled in a private university, making it difficult for private universities to attract students who cannot afford to pay the fees.\n\nDuring the last decade, in addition to creating seven new universities, the Government of Tunisia (GOT) has made progress in i)in improving the internal efficiency of programs and pass rates in applied science programs and selected short-term programs such as at the higher institutes of technology (Instituts supérieurs des études technologiques) (ZSETS) (ii)introducing shorter term professional programs with more relevance; and(iii)granting greater autonomy to universities to give them the flexibility to respond to the changing environment and adapt academic programs to the needs of the economy.\n\nAccess to post secondary education is guaranteed to all students holding the Diploma zdu Baccalaureat. The admission process is centrally controlled through the national university orientation system. Although this centralized system has been criticized for its rigidity as it leaves students unsatisfied by the disciplines they have been placed in. The pass rate of the Baccalaureate is not very high in Tunisia. On average 60 percent of students fail the baccalaureate each year. Recently since 2005–06, the government has been trying to implement reform that is based on the European three-tier model of bachelor’s, master's and doctoral degrees.This reform is known as LCD :licence (three years) master’s (two-years), doctorate(five years). The new academic credit hour system is meant to give students greater flexibility in designing their study tracks, while allowing them to earn and transfer credits between institutions both domestically and internationally.\n\nAt the university level the first cycle of studies in the academic stream is of two years, which leads to the award of Diploma d’Etudes Universitaires du Premier Cycle. This first degree is regarded as a preparatory one. Then in most other fields, the second cycle leads to the award of Maitrise, which is considered the first degree in Tunisian university system. Later the Diplome d’Etudes Approfondies (DEA) is awarded to Maitrise holders after a further two-year study and the preparation and defense of a thesis. DEA is also a prerequisite for entry into a doctoral program.\n\nDespite this progress, however, numerous challenges remain, as student enrollments in public universities are projected to increase by about 6.6 percent annually, reaching approximately 470,000 (all categories) in 2010, while at the same time, the quality and relevance of education are in need of updating. At 2 percent of GDP, public spending on higher education is already higher than in most countries in the world. Unemployment among university graduates is increasing and the employability of graduates in modern, export-oriented sectors is weak. Mechanisms and incentives to promote quality at the university level are for the most part inadequate and universities cannot fully exercise the autonomy that will help them to better respond to the changes in the labor markets and requirements of a global economy. In sum, due to the projected increase in enrollment, the GOT is faced with a challenge of meeting public demand for higher education in an equitable way, and improving quality in a cost-efficient manner, while responding to existing and new labor market needs.\n\nTunisia is supported by international organizations (e.g., the World Bank, Microsoft, and Apple in incorporating ICT at all levels of education. These organizations provide support to the government in implementing ICT staff training programs, supporting professional development, providing networking opportunities; researching, developing and evaluating new policy approaches in setting up ICT infrastructure in the country. Some of the innovative projects were the Mobile laboratories and Mobile Internet Buses connected to the internet via satellites to target schools in rural and remote areas so as to reduce the digital divide. Then launched in 1999Global. Teenager Project was launched that led to global classroom debates in cyber space. Tunisia also hosted the second phase of the world summit on information systems.\n\nIn 2004, there were 22,000 computer (0.28 computers for every class), but by 2006 there were 57,000 computers(0.71 computers for every class).Although the presidential election program is working towards achieving 1 computer per class by 2009.It is foreseen that the number of trained teachers will increase to 80,000 in 2009 from 60,000 in 2006.\nAll higher education institutes are connected to the internet by El Khawarizmi Calculus Center, which is the official public internet service provider to higher education institutes. The integration of ICT in education is further reinforced by Tunisian Virtual School and the Virtual University of Tunis.\n\nTunisia was one of the first countries in North Africa and Arab countries to pioneer in the field of distance education and e-learning through the launch of TVS in January 2002. It provides fee interactive courses, revision modules, assistance and ICT training.\n\nIt was established as a government initiative in 2003, and it now provides 20 percent of the courses through e-learning. It does not cover all specialties but it does award diplomas and certificates. There are 207 modules, representing more than 8,000 hours, that are ready for use. The university currently has 10 functional access centers, and by 2009 there will be 200.\n\nThe Tunisian government introduced the National Program for Adult Literacy (PNEA) in April 2000. It is supervised by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Solidarity. To support this program various civil society organizations and NGO’s have contributed immensely to ensure that adults could gain skills useful in the current job market. For example, in 2006-2007, 5000 young people aged below 30, 40 of whom women, took part in introductory vocational training courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "51099104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51099104", "title": "Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes (Honduras)", "text": "Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes (Honduras)\n\nThe Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes (ENBA, or National School of Fine Arts) is the main centre of education and training of artists in the republic of Honduras.\n\nOn 15 April 1878, the first antecedent is registered in this field with the establishment of a Drawing School and Paint located in Tegucigalpa; the Academy of Fine Arts and Applied Drawing to the Industrial Arts is created in 1890, founded and directed by Mr. Tomás Mur, of Spanish nationality. The National Academy of Drawing \"Claroscuro al Natual\" is created in 1934, under the direction of Carlos Zúñiga Figueroa, and by 1938 the School of Arts and Crafts emerges, in this same year, the section of Artistic Drawing is opened, that suggests the creation of the National School of Fine Arts.\n\nThe National School of Fine Arts (ENBA in Spanish) was founded in 1940 by the President of the Republic, Doctor and General, Tiburcio Carias Andino.\n\nCarias Andino awarded the artists Arturo López Rodezno, Maximiliano Ramírez Euceda, Samuel Salgado, and Salvador Posadas, since a year before through a government mandate, the creation of a School of Arts; said characters had proposed themselves the creation of such school in accordance with the president. The same year they were located in the arts building of the \"ENBA\", street 6, Avenue 2 and 3, in front of \"La Libertad\" park in Comayagüela, Central District. In its beginnings, the National School of Fine Arts (ENBA), the students received drawing, painting, and sculpture classes; some models that were painted came in its majority from Europe, and, captured by the students in a canvas mounted on an easel.\n\nThe ENBA is an educational institution that offers specialized services in the visual arts at middle level, formal and non-formal; to contribute with the development of Honduran plastic arts, the appreciation of art, national and universal culture.\n\nThe ENBA pretends to be a leader institution in the artistic-visual formation in every level of the National Educational System, promoting at the same time the different manifestations of the visual arts and cultures through the activities of teaching, investigation, and extension. Regarding their policies of cultural, academic growth and support for the teaching-learning process, the following are proposed goals in the short, medium, and long term: specify a process of reform that defines the administrative and academic regultaions. Establish a mechanism of financial self-management to strenghten the academic process and cultural extension of the institution. To formulate and push a proposal for the creation of a bachelor's degree in the career of Visual Arts with different specialties. To achieve the costruction of a new building that houses the facilities of what will be the New School of Fine Arts, and the creation of an interactive-didactic Museum of the visual arts.\n\nIn 1940, the National School of Fine Arts is created, ascribed to the Ministry of Development, Commerce and Industry, offering courses and diplomas to the graduates of the sixth grade in the modalities of: drawing, perspective, paint, sculpture, ceramic, wood carving and religiuos sculpture, studied in five years.\n\nIn 1953, the school becomes part of the Ministry of Education. In 1956, the Plan for Bachelors and Professors of Primary Education is created, granting the title of Teacher of Drawing and Modeling, that is done in two years. This plan of studies dissapears in 1965.\n\nIn 1966, the Plan of Teacher of Plastic Arts initiates for graduates of the common cycle of General Culture. This modality replaces the one of Teacher of Drawing and Modeling and is extended until the year of 1975; in this same year the agreement of Legalization of Titles and Diplomas granted since 1940 is issued.\n\nIn 1976, the National School of Fine Arts is created by law and that same year, the Master Plan in Plastic Arts is created, that worked until 2005. In 1980, the bachelor's degree in graphic arts is created. In 1993, the Plastic Arts Plan for baccalaureates began, which is currently  working. In 2003, the Bachelor of Science with Orientation in Plastic Education was created within the framework of the Transformation of the National Schools, replacing the above mentioned Master Plan in Plastic Arts.\n\nThe National School of Fine Arts is an educational public institution of plastic-artistic training of medium level, unique in its genre and academic degree. Depends on the Secretary of Education through the Departmental Direction of Education of Francisco Morazán and the District Direction No. 9. Its curricula is composed by three modalities of study at a diversified level:\n\n\nIn the framework of the non-formal education it offers the following modalities:\n\n\nThis educational center, in its trajectory, has been very important in the Honduran society because of its contribution to the development of visual arts and national culture. It has formed more than 90% of the creators, contemplators, and educators of art.\n\nThe formal academic activity is done through three modalities of study.\n\n<br>\"Bachelor's degree in Plastic Arts:\" this plan of studies pretends to endow its students of the basic and practical theoretical-artistic knowledge that allow them the elaboration of the work of art, aiming them to become the representative artists of the national plastic arts. In addition to training them as professionals in this field, it prepares them to face their future personal challenges, of participation in society and to opt to higher studies. The aspects on which this plan is based are: aesthetic creativity, plastic artistic promoter, human relations and professional ethics, critical judgement, national identity; and democratic attitude.\n\n\"Bachelor's degree in Graphic Arts:\" This plan aims to provide to its students of technical-artistic and scientific knowledge that allows them to develop as professionals in the field of visual communication performing as graphic designers, it also forms them in the scientific-humanist area, which will enable them to opt for higher studies.\n\n\"Schoolteaching in Plastic Arts:\" plan of studies that aims to provide its students of pedagogical, artistic, and scientific  knowledge to initiate them in the development of neccesary skills in the teaching of plastic art, besides preparing them to continue with higher studies in this field. Through these study modalities since year 1977 until 2006 they have graduated 1,034 young people coming from the different departments of the country. In the established study modalities in the 1957 to 1976 period graduated 154 young people, making a total of 1,188 professionals in this field.\n\nThe ENBA designs and executes curricular models in response to social demands and to specific historical moments. In the first years of its operation the ENBA offers courses and diplomas to sixth grade graduates in the modalities or sections of: drawing, perspective, painting, sculpture, decoration, ceramic, carving in wood and religious sculpture. These were developed with a duration of five years. \n\nBy 1956, the Plan for Bachelors and Teachers of Primary Education is created. Giving them the title of Teacher of Drawing and Modeling, this plan was completed in two years. In 1966, the Teacher of Plastic Arts initiates for graduates of the common cycle of General Culture, this modality replaces to one of Teacher of Drawing and Modeling and extends to the year 1975. This plan was completed in three years. In 1976, the plan of Teachers of Plastic Arts initiates which works until 2005. In 1975 the agreement of Legalization of Titles and Diplomas granted from 1940 until 1975 is issued and it is \"created\" by law the National School of Fine Arts, ascribed to the Executive Department of Artistic and Normal.\n\nIn 2003 the Bachelor's Degree of Sciences with Orientation in Plastic Education (BEP in Spanish) in the framework of the reforms of the normal and artistic education, presented by the Secretary of Education. This process lasted only five years.\n\nIn 2008 under the agreement 1710- SE-2008, starts again the teacher training under the Teachers of Primary Education in Plastic Arts, which is completed in a three year period, running to date. Since 2005, this institution has pretended to elevate the dormation of its modalities of studies on a higher level.\n\nIn 2015, bachelor's conversion to Professional Technician bachelor in three fields or areas initiates; B.T.P on Design, B.T.P on Cultural and Educational Management, and B.T.P in Plastic Arts.\n\nThe National School of Fine arts, makes the following events.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Annual exhibitions of visual arts of his students, graduates and invited.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Ensenarte Project.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Academic travels\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Preparation of artistic projects in the frame of Social Educational Works.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Technical Practices and Professional Practices.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Develop Workshops of plastic qualification to educational.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Preparation and publication of magazine, manual. Educational texts and didactic material.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Participation in two Meetings of plastic artists to Latin American and worldwide level.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Organisation and development of conferences on subjects of Art, Culture and Social dictated by stood out plastic artists, sociologists and national and international writers.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Participation in exhibitions and contests to national and international level.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Form part of the Jury of the National Prize of Art, Pablo Zelaya. Form part of the Jury of distinct biennial to national level.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Creation and awarding of Prize ITZAMNA, by a space of six consecutive years. Organisation of three meetings of National and international artist.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Collaboration in the organisation and setting of the Biennial of the Autonomous National University of Honduras, the Honduran Institute of Inter-American Culture, IHCI and the Anthology of the Plastic Arts.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Demonstrations in public places of the country of the processes of preparation of the artistic work.\n\nIt is the national prize that awards this school of arts to the stood out national artists that manage in his respective disciplines. \n\nBetween the teachers of the And.N.B.To. They stand out Alfredo Ruiz Barrier, Arturo López Rodezno, Carlos Zuñiga Figueroa, Carlos Garay, Dante Lazzaroni Andean, José Rony Castle, Horace Reina, Mario M. Castle, Mario Mejía Turcios, Maximiliano Ramírez Euceda, Pablo Zelaya Sierra, Raúl Fiallos, Teresa Victoria Fortín Franco, and Pastor Sabillón Fernández among others.\n\nInside a new generation of artists and educational that acuerpan the school encontramosBlas Aguilar, Gabriel Zaldibar, Víctor López, Oscar Mendoza, Víctor Hugo Cruz, Gilberto Videz, Teresa Silva, Marcia Ney Rivera, Delmer Mejia, Antonio Baquedano, Luis Enrique Cruz, Juan Sunday Torres Q.D.D.G., Ernesto Argueta, Luci Martínez, Rafael Cáceres, Daniel Rivera, Kelvin Kings, Medardo Cardona, among others.\n\nBetween the artists graduated in the And.N.B.To. They stand out Álvaro Channels, Ánibal Cruz, Armando Lara, Mario Zamora Alcantara, Miguel Ángel Ruiz Matute, Moses Becerra, Nury Reina of Toffe, Ricardo Aguilar, Virgil To. Guardiola, Leonel Benítez Efraín, Jesús Antonio Zelaya, Arturo Moon, Delmer Mejía, Luis Hernán Padilla, Ezequiel Padilla Ayestas, Julio Visquerra, Margarita Velásquez, Dino Mario Fanconi Moncada, Isabel Membreño, Hermes Armijo Maletz, José Joaquín Urquía García and Francis Spanish of Ayala, Patricia Toledo Bautista, among others.\n\nThe National School of Fine arts (And. N. B. To.) survive with a small support of institutions and of the government, although his greater contribution to continue existing, bases in the fees paid by students.\n\nInitiated in the anniversary of the 50 years of the school, of 1990 to the 2007, the National School of Fine arts together with the Cultural Centre of Spain in Tegucigalpa and the Office of Culture, Arts and Sports, summoned each 15 November the Anthology of the Plastic and Visual Arts of Honduras for incentivar and document the annual creativity, as well as improve the social projection of the And.N.B.To. Equally, every year it surrendered homage to a teacher of the plastic Honduran.\n\nIn the 2009 the number of alumni was of 260 students and it went to lower levels in 2015, when National School of Fine arts only has 236 students, in spite of the scholarships and helps awarded.\n\nThe institution offers artistic degrees that are a combination of art type and academic level.\n\nThe government of Honduras decided to invest an additional 18 billion Lempiras (US$933 million) between 2001 and 2015, towards social projects in education, health and culture amounting to 35% of the budget for the reducing poverty strategy.\n\nThis investment is one more component of the already decided and pre-established budget for these sectors, something the government has not made, instead maintaining the National School of Fine Arts working with a lowered budget and as of the date of May, 2014 has not delivered the 2013 budget, besides the scholarship of $15/month assigned for each student in school. Art has been ignored in Honduras, for example the maximum prize that a national artist can aspire to win is the National Prize of Art Pablo Zelaya Sierra, which only has an annual monetary reward of US$500 to the first place.\n\n"}
{"id": "749896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=749896", "title": "Further and Higher Education Act 1992", "text": "Further and Higher Education Act 1992\n\nThe Further and Higher Education Act 1992 made changes in the funding and administration of further education and higher education within England and Wales with consequential effects on associated matters in Scotland which had previously been governed by the same legislation as England and Wales. It was introduced during the First Major ministry.\n\nThe most visible result was to allow thirty-five polytechnics to become universities (often referred to as the \"new universities\" or \"post-1992 universities\"). In addition the Act created bodies to fund higher education in England—HEFCE—and further education—FEFC. Universities in Scotland and Wales which had previously been funded by one UK-wide Universities Funding Council were the subject of other Acts that created higher education funding councils in each country. The act abolished binary line, created national unitary funding councils, removed colleges of further education from local government control, and created quality assessment arrangements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54632646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54632646", "title": "Gavari", "text": "Gavari\n\nGavari is a 40-day ecstatic dance drama tradition dedicated to the Shakti avatar \"Gavari\" (aka \"Gavri\" or \"Gauri\"), the principal deity of Mewar's Bhil tribe in Rajasthan, India. The Mewari Bhils honor Gavari as the creative protective spirit animating all life; and they perform this ritual annually to invoke, experience and celebrate Her powers. This centuries-old ceremonial cycle employs austere discipline, enraptured trance, and wild theatrics to also convey ancient myths, historic events, tribal lore, and satiric political commentary. Among all the world’s folk performance traditions, it is quite unique, especially with respect to its epiphanous energy, scale, duration, ascetic rigour and inspirational messaging as well as its still mysterious provenance and genesis.\n\nEach year, \"bhopa\" shamans from Mewar's Bhil communities petition the Goddess to permit their villagers to perform the Gavari ritual and to accompany them for the weeks of touring. The average wait time for her consent is about 4–5 years, and once the ritual cycle begins, she must also be successfully invoked before each daily ceremony. Only when she visibly possesses one or more troupe members can the dance dramas begin and the ritual proceed.\n\nEach of the 25-25 participating communities forms and dispatches its own Gavari company of 20-80 members. The troupes crisscross Mewar performing more than 600 day-long village ceremonies in all. In total, Gavari troupes in total can play to over a quarter of a million people annually.\n\nDuring the 40-day Gavari season, all players practice strict austerities to maintain reverent contact with the living earth and the immanent spirit. They avoid not only sex, alcohol and meat, but also shoes, beds, bathing, and eating greens (which might harm insect life). They eat only a single meal each day during the season.\n\nIn the final days, each troupe returns to its home village for a last performance and closing ceremonies. The cycle ends with an immersion rite to return the Goddess’s fertility to their waters and all night raucous celebrations.\n\nA Gavari troupe repertoire may include 10-15 classic traditional tales and new ones are still evolving, but the overarching themes are the sacredness of the natural world, radical human equality, and the feminine nature of the divine. These values are reflected in traditional Bhil society where the environment is revered, hierarchy is abhorred, and women enjoy greater rights and status than in communities outside.\n\nAmong Gavari’s many mythic dramas, two of the most popular and often repeated are \"Badalya Hindawa\" (The Banyan Swing) and \"Bhilurana\" (King of the Bhils).\n\n\"Badalya Hindawa\" recounts how the Goddess re-greened the Earth after a life-erasing flood and fiercely defends it thereafter from greed, stupidity and harm. The playlet features a powerful guru who loses his disciples beneath a sacred banyan tree and demands that the local king destroy it as an illicit source of power. The unnerved king complies and has the tree cut down. The Goddess and her devi sisters are outraged at this desecration and slip into his court disguised as acrobatic dancers to exact revenge. They lure the king close with their artistry, reveal their true nature, indict him for cowardice and sacrilege, and mortally terminate his reign.\n\nBoth plays end with celebration, salutations to the Goddess, and clear warnings to interlopers to never violate Nature or their sovereignty again.\n\nGavari drama emphasis inspired improvisation over rehearsal and memorisation. The beginnings and ends of Gavari dramas are known, but how things transpire in between is highly mutable. There are no scripts and many players are illiterate farmers and labourers. Individual plays can continue for hours, contain long soliloquies and dialogues, and are only performed by a particular troupe once on four or five years. This intuitive improvisational approach fosters great creative diversity and different villages may present the same stories in many very different ways. Players strive to perform in a receptive trance known as \"bhava\", which resembles the fluid creative state that musicians and athletes call \"flow\" or \"the zone\".\n\nDepending on the day and the plays selected a single Gavari troupe can present dozens of different characters - goddess avatars, gods, demons, historical figures, sacred animals, corrupt officials, etc. The only constant roles, which exist outside the dramas, are the Budia figure, his twin Rai devi consorts and Kutkadia, the master of ceremonies.\n\nWomen are not allowed to tour as actors with the troupe due to the 4-5 day menstrual isolation Bhil women observe each month. Consequently, all female characters are portrayed by men.\n\nBudia embodies a powerful fusion of Shaivite and demonic energies and is a vital protective Gavari figure. He is distinguished by his dramatic horse hair-fringed mask, sacred staff and twin Rai consorts. In each day’s Gavari ceremony the Budia character has three main duties: circling the arena during opening invocations in the opposite direction as the dancers to seal in and protect the energy field they are generating; patrolling the arena perimeter during dance drama sequences to prevent audience members from entering the players' area or shaman circle unless they are clearly entranced; and periodically holding court at the arena’s edge with his Rai escorts to accept offerings on behalf of the troupe and confer blessings.\n\nEvery Gavari village has its own iconic Budia mask, which is treated as a sacred object and often handed down for generations.\n\nOne of India’s oldest and largest tribes, the Bhil people have primarily lived in the belt extending across contemporary Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh for at least 4,000 years. About 10 million Bhils live in India today, but only the ±7% who reside in Mewar participate in the Gavari tradition.\n\nThere are many speculative theories about Gavari's genesis, but its true age and origin are unknown.\n\nAccording to one hypothesis, it may have begun in rural Mewar at the end of the 16th century, when Mewaris largely regained control of their lands and lives from the Mughals in 1579, the Rajput court gratefully awarded their mountain-dwelling Bhil brethren both unprecedented recognition and vast tracts of fertile agricultural land. The latter boon gradually drew most Bhils out of their forest encampments and began their transition to village agriculture. The 16th century hypothesis thus holds that this settling down of a semi-nomadic people created a nostalgia for their more adventurous heritage. Others assert that Gavari began in the 3rd or 4th century in Gujarat, and still others that it as old as Bhil culture itself and dates back four millennia.\n\nGavari troupes perform two distinct invocation rituals. The first is used to ask the Goddess to permit a village to perform the Gavari cycle. This invocation is held in every Mewari Bhil community on or shortly before the full moon in the Hindu month of \"Shravana\", which usually falls in August as the monsoon planting season ends.\n\nThe second is to confirm Her presence and participation at the start of each day's performance. Both invocations require incense, flowers. chanting, \"madal\" drum and \"thali\" cymbal music, a Shaivite trishula, and the kindling of a \"dhuni fire\".\n\nInitial sanction invocations are usually held in a darkened sanctuary attended by a small group of \"bhopa\" shamans, village elders and veteran Gavari players. Other villagers gather outside to await Her decision which is delivered by a possessed trembling \"bhopa\". He proceeds to channel Her spirit as She explains why She will or won't allow them to perform this year. Typical reasons for refusal include discord in the village, shrine disrepair, a poor monsoon, a crop blight, etc., which must be dealt with satisfactorily before petitioning Her again.\n\nDaily confirmation invocations are performed around an altar in the centre of the Gavari arena where shamans, musicians and senior players gather in a tight circle. The rest of the players and occasionally villagers dance counterclockwise around this core to create a welcoming energy field. A guardian Budia figure circles the dancers in the opposite direction to seal in their energy and protect it from misuse. The Goddess spirit's arrival and presence is signaled by one or more \"bhopas\" falling into trembling \"bhava\" trance.\n\nOther requisite ritual instruments used after Her manifestation include peacock feather sceptres to dramatize and distribute possession's quivering energetic power, and heavy \"saankal\" chains with which trance-elated participants often beat their backs.\n\nSuccessful invocations have several visible effects. First they connect the village shaman(s) to the Goddess spirit so they can audibly articuiate Her concerns, requests and will. Second, they infuse the Gavari players with creative inspiration to ably enact their roles. Finally, they can overwhelm some villagers with a sense of wonder, grace and bliss. Entranced villagers may be welcomed into the shaman circle or approached for healings and blessings by other members of the crowd. Those possessed often later report feelings of great exhilaration and selfless unity with all surrounding life. Such experiences reinforce Bhils' belief in Gavari's power, their own inalienable equality, and the sacredness of the natural world.\n\nIn Gavari, the beauty and power of the natural world are the ultimate expression of divinity. Wilful or heedless damage to its diversity, health or future is thus regarded as not only short-sighted and suicidal, but also criminal and blasphemous. Such views are the seed Seven generation sustainability among many indigenous tribes and their current widespread battles to safeguard water resources, endangered ecosystems and biocultural diversity.\n\nGavari is righteously egalitarian and disrespectful of unjust authority. Its dramas vividly depict and celebrate the dispatching of powerful officials, gurus and merchants either by the mocking scorn of villagers or the sword of the Goddess in a protective maternal rage. No authority figure is spared and some playlets happily lampoon kings, Hindu gods like Krishna, and even charlatan \"Bhopa\" shamans. The healthy skepticism such skits reflected and encouraged in rural Mewar, along with other similar art forms/practices in the subcontinent helped birth India's 2005 Right to Information Act, which has been journalistically hailed as \"the most significant change to Indian democracy since Independence\" \n\nGavari's itinerant format continues to closely network and promote solidarity among Mewar's scattered rural villages as well as their constituent castes and religious communities. Its rich mythic and historical repertoire also helps keep tribal youth aware of their heritage.\n\nGavari’s comedic skits on farm finance, greedy middlemen and corrupt merchants offer villagers wry lessons in real world commerce and economic self-defense, especially with regard to crop brokers, moneylenders, credit scams, and urban conceptions of wealth.\n\nGavari tightens inter-community bonds with its month of itinerant village visitations and solidifies Bhils’ sense of responsibility for a world far beyond their neighboring fields. Although only Bhils play roles in the ceremony, Gavari performances also internally solidify communities by involving all castes, communities and age groups in the preparations and audience delight.\n\nThe Gavari tradition at home has fallen on hard times Rajasthan's government schools now forbid Bhil students to be truant to accompany their village Gavari troupes on their month-long pilgrimages. This alone is potentially lethal since Gavari has no scripts or schools and the only way to learn its ceremonies, arts and stories is as an apprentice participant. \nAdd to this the accelerating exodus of working age youth to metro centers in search of employment and the average size and number of rural Gavari troupes continues decline.\n\nThere are also positives. Local Bhil organizations are also becoming more active in promoting Gavari and its core values. The first English language introduction to Gavari is now available; lobbying is underway for Sangeet Nakat Akademi and UNESCO recognition of Gavari as a globally significant Intangible Cultural Heritage treasure; an increasing number of Gavari clips are appearing on Youtube and Japanese scholars have initiated innovative economic studies of Gavari's societal benefits\n\nUdaipur's West Zone Cultural Centre has started presenting films and samples of Gavari artistry; and local eco-festivals are also introducing the tradition to urban audiences. In 2016 the Udaipur District Collector and Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje mobilized local agencies and NGOs to create \"Rediscovering Gavari\", a multi-year program to promote \"Gavari as an ancient folk art miracle... spiritually arousing, artistically surprising and historically mysterious.\"\n\nThe Rediscovering Gavari program invited 12 rural troupes to perform the ceremony on different days in iconic Udaipur settings. These unprecedented events exposed thousands of tourists and townsfolk to Gavari for the first time and sparked a rare blaze of media attention. This was followed by the first Gavari presentation in Delhi at the 2016 National Tribal Carnival, which was attended by Prime Minister Modi who offered lavish praise and encouragement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35523081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35523081", "title": "Gradual release of responsibility", "text": "Gradual release of responsibility\n\nThe gradual release of responsibility model or GRR model is a particular style of teaching which is a structured method of pedagogy framed around a process devolving responsibility within the learning process from the teacher to the eventual independence of the learner. This instructional model requires that the teacher, by design, transitions from assuming \"all the responsibility for performing a task...to a situation in which the students assume all of the responsibility\". The ideal result is a confident learner who accepts responsibility for their own learning and directs this learning through the cognitive processes involved, moving through the academic spectrum, to independent choice (personalised learning). As Buehl (2005) stated, the GRR model \"emphasizes instruction that mentors students into becoming capable thinkers and learners when handling the tasks with which they have not yet developed expertise\".\n\nWhile similar models have been identified and represented throughout the study and development of teaching and learning as a construct, it was Pearson & Gallagher (1983) who coined the phrase \"gradual release of responsibility\" to describe this dynamic in the classroom. Basing their model on the ideas of the Russian educational theorist Lev Vygotsky, Pearson and Gallagher envisioned instruction that moved from explicit modeling and instruction to guided practice and then to activities that incrementally positioned students into becoming independent learners. The teacher guides the students to a point of 'planned obsolescence' on the part of the teacher \"...where the student accepts total responsibility for the task, including the responsibility for determining whether or not she is applying the strategy appropriately (i.e, self monitoring).\"\n\nOne element which is crucial to the success of the GRR model is the notion related to 'instructional scaffolding', which is grounded in Vygotsky's concept of the \"zone of proximal development\" (ZPD). This is described as the distance between the actual developmental level of a learner as determined by their independent problem solving abilities and the level of potential development through problem-solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers. That is, the distance between what the children can do without assistance and what they can accomplish with the assistance of more capable peers. The zone of proximal development can be applied as an umbrella over the entire GRR model. Students are given support in the form of scaffolding and differentiate instruction throughout all four phases of the process. Teachers may offer more challenging material to high-achieving students, and assist lower-achieving students in needs-based groups. Teachers will support students as needed throughout all four steps finally allowing for the eventual independence of each student. The GRR model \"...assumes that [the student] will need some guidance in reaching that stage of independence and that it is precisely the teacher's role to provide such guidance\".\n\nVygotsky (1978) believed that guided interactions, with an adult, or a more skilled peer, could facilitate a higher level of thinking within the zone. In Vygotsky's theory, this person is referred to as the \"More Knowledgeable Other (MKO)\". The four phases of the GRR Model are: Focus Lesson – \"I do it\", Guided Instruction – \"We do it\", Collaborative – \"You do it together\", and Independent – \"You do it alone\" (Fisher & Frey 2006). In the GRR model, the MKO exists in the person of the teacher-guide in the \"I do it\" and \"We do it\" phases. The MKO resurfaces again in the collaborative process where peers may assist each other as expertise, personal experience, and/or understanding allows.\n\nThere have been a number of ways of describing and representing the ways in which adults or more experienced others may assist novice learners within their ZPD. Rogoff (1990) recognised that this could be achieved through guided participation, and this is similar to the concept of Tharp and Gallimore's theory (1991), of \"means of assisting\" and to that of the practice of reciprocal teaching recognised by Brown and Palincsar. Others have recognised the similarities between this method of instruction and the integrated approach of collaboration in conceptual change (Rochelle, 1992) and the cognitive apprenticeship model of Collins, Brown, and Newman (1989).\n\nThis term 'scaffolding' is a useful metaphor that is used to symbolise the process of supporting a learner in the early stages of the learning process – as the walls get higher – until there is sufficient evidence of knowledge and skills having been acquired, to then be able to remove that scaffolding so the learner is able to 'stand alone', or be effectively independent enough to continue learning 'alone'. In a similar way, there is a gradual dismantling of the scaffolding as the 'job' becomes more secure and so there is a gradual release of responsibility from the teacher to the learner. As scaffolding is temporary, so too are the lessons that are constructed to help students as they embark into unfamiliar thinking. As noted by Pearson and Gallagher, \"The critical stage of the model is the 'guided practice,' the stage in which the teacher gradually releases task responsibility to the students.\" As such, these lessons eventually fade away as students become gradually more comfortable with the learning and are able to work without the necessary guidance of the teacher.\n\nAlthough based on the work of Piaget, the influence of Vygotsky's 'constructivist theory' and learning in the classroom has become more popular because it considers the influence of group processes and social contexts that are, in themselves, influenced by such constructs as cultural diversity and stages of development.\n\nThe GRR model emphasizes instruction that supports and mentors students into becoming capable thinkers and learners when handling tasks with which they have yet to develop expertise in.\nIt is a successful model and has been documented as an effective approach in teaching many subject areas and a variety of content, from writing achievement, reading comprehension, and literacy outcomes for English language learners (Kong & Pearson, 2003).\n\nFocus lessons are a time for students to hear the teacher and not answer questions about their own thinking. This is the time for students to actively listen, take notes and ask for clarification. \"I think...\", or \"I wonder...\", or \"I predict...\" are the types of statements students will hear. \nAccording to Fisher and Frey, Modeling follows a precise pattern:\n\n\"Once students have a skill or strategy modeled, they gain a deeper understanding for when to apply it, what to watch for, and how to analyze their success.\" Students can then be given time to talk and practice with a partner. Students need to be provided with examples for them to be successful.\n\n\"The key to a quality focus lesson is in the direct explaining and modeling of the skill, strategies, and task.\"\n\nThe goal of guided instruction in the gradual release of responsibility model is to guide students toward using different skills, strategies and procedures independently. The student will assume more responsibility with less support from the teacher. Lessons are created as to ensure student success. Oftentimes when students are struggling with a concept in the classroom, they do not need more teacher modelling, what they really need is guidance and support to meet high expectations.\n\nTeachers meet with needs based groups which are created based on the feedback from formative assessment with the aim being for students to progress toward completing the outcome or skill independently. Formative assessments are planned in accordance with specific outcomes, which make it easier for teachers to group students. Groups may change frequently and are not static groups for the entire school year. Student groups change throughout the year based on assessed performance and not on teacher perceived ability. Each group has a purpose and the teacher plans instructional lessons based on the common needs of the group. Guided instruction gives the teacher an opportunity to differentiated instruction small group instruction, vary the level of prompting and also vary the end product. The teacher must be flexible since the instructional goal of the group may change throughout the sessions.\n\nIn a classroom there may be many different guided instruction groups. Each group may be working on a different skill or at a different level. Fisher's model recommends meeting with groups 1–3 times per week, with some groups meeting more frequently and other stronger groups meeting less often. The size of the groups will also vary depending on how much face time is required for the particular skill. It is a common misconception that guided instruction is only for struggling students. This is an opportunity for teachers to provide enrichment for strong students. Guided instruction is based on the pedagogical principles of scaffolding.\n\nA study by Conklin and Wilkins shows growth and advances in reading levels among elementary students when using a guided reading approach. Working with the teacher in small groups gave students a chance to work on specific skills, at their reading level. Students gained confidence when reading 'just right' texts. Since they were not struggling with the text they were able to develop vocabulary, reading comprehension skills and oral language skills. Gabl, Kaiser, Long and Roemer found similar results when providing reading intervention in the form of guided reading groups to grade two and grade four students. The results showed an increase in reading fluency and comprehension after using flexible grouping in guided reading.\n\nImprovement in writing can also be seen when teachers implement a guided writing aspect to their literacy based lessons. Gibson notes that providing immediate instructional scaffolding to specific groups of students increases performance. The teacher chooses the instructional goals based on observation and formative assessment. Regardless of subject matter, students who are taught and then grouped according to need and re-taught based on their needs commonly show improvement.\n\nCollaborative learning is the third component of the gradual release of responsibility model where students work in small heterogeneous groups on activities that allow them to deepen their understanding through application of the concept being learned. This stage of the model is the beginning of the transfer of responsibility from the teacher to the students. The collaborative learning component requires that each student is accountable for their participation by producing an independent product while engaged with his peers.\n\nThere are five key features of collaborative or cooperative learning that researchers have found essential to produce effective learning. They are positive interdependence, face-to-face interaction, individual and group accountability, interpersonal and small group skills, and group processing.\nPositive interdependence within a collaborative learning environment means that each member of the group contributes an individual effort to the task which is necessary for the whole group's success. The interdependence of this structure creates an environment in which all individuals are important to the group as a whole, and the sharing of understandings, processes and ideas among members is common.\nFace-to-face interaction is another key component of collaborative learning where students interact within their group about their task, providing support, encouragement and praise as needed to reach the goal. In the face to face groups students can check understanding through discussions of the concepts and ideas of the content being studied.\nIndividual and group accountability requires that each member of the collaborative group be responsible for contributing their share of the work. This can be done with clear goals, and assessment that is measurable in terms of achieving goals and the efforts of the group members.\n\nCollaborative or cooperative learning requires students to act as a members of a team. A skill set that includes leadership, active listening, decision making, turn taking and trust making are useful in collaborative learning. These teamwork skills need to be purposely taught as part of the gradual release of responsibility model.\nThe final key of collaborative learning is group processing. This refers to the members reflecting on how they are as a group reaching the collaborative learning task, and how as individuals they are learning. Reflection on the workings of the group, what worked and what improvements could be made is also a part of the group processing.\n\nThe last phase of gradual release of responsibility provides students with the opportunity to employ what they have learned in a new situation. Students can be given a variety of independent tasks but the assignments should reflect the other phases of instructional content. While students are working, the teacher's role is to circulate the room listening and making observations.\n\nDue to time restrictions in the classroom, independent work must be completed by the student at home. According to the Nova Scotia Department of Education, homework is \"an assigned activity that students complete outside of regular class time. When assignments are purposeful, engaging, of high quality, and given in moderation, the assignment of homework by teachers is positively associated with student learning success\".\n\nResearch by Harris Cooper, Jorgianne C. Robinson, and Erika A. Patall has proven, \"with only rare exceptions, the relationship between the amount of homework students do and their achievement outcomes was found to be positive and statistically significant\". In a survey sponsored by MetLife, the majority of teachers surveyed said they used homework to \"improve skills in the classroom and for improving life skills beyond high school\".\n\nStudies have shown that classroom instruction and homework can complement one another to result in deeper understanding and improved skills. The Nova Scotia Department of Education provides the following recommendation for maximum daily homework for all subjects:\nSome strategies suggested for students to start self-monitoring and recording of time spent on homework. Douglas Fisher and Nancy Frey use their research to create a four tiered progression of how homework can benefit students throughout their learning process:\n\n\nHomework is problematic when teachers' observations from the independent phase are not employed when determining how much and what kinds of expectations will be placed on students to accomplish for the next class. There is a concern that homework tasks are assigned prematurely in the instructional process and as a result, students learn things incorrectly. This is extremely problematic since it takes even more time to unlearn misconceptions and misunderstandings.\n\nThe Nova Scotia Department of Education states that \"students learn to assume responsibility for the independent completion of homework through a process of successive and structured release of responsibility. It is therefore important that homework assignments are geared to the realities of students' developing skills to avoid undue frustration and disengagement.\"\n\nIn the same survey sponsored by MetLife, 26% of secondary teachers said they often assign homework due to time restrictions which Fisher and Frey suggest to be problematic because this implies that students are regularly given homework assignments for which they are not adequately prepared.\n\nHomework can be a meaningful part of the independent phase of learning when administered thoughtfully based on the observations made during the independent phase of the gradual release of responsibility framework.\n\n"}
{"id": "53800178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53800178", "title": "Hans Grischkat", "text": "Hans Grischkat\n\nHans Adolf Karl Wilhelm Grischkat (29 August 1903 – 10 January 1977) was a German conductor, especially a choral conductor, also a church musician and academic teacher. He founded the choir for pioneering concerts and recordings of works by Bach and Monteverdi in the spirit of historically informed performance. He was the church musician of the in Reutlingen, published Bach cantatas for Hänssler, and was from 1950 a professor of choral conducting at the Musikhochschule Stuttgart.\n\nGrischkat was born in Hamburg. He studied at the University of Tübingen, first natural sciences, then musicology. He studied at the Musikhochschule Stuttgart with .\n\nGrischkat was active in the . He founded in 1924 the \"Reutlinger Singkreis\", in 1931 the and in 1936 in Stuttgart the \"Grischkat-Singkreis\". In 1945, he founded the orchestra \"Schwäbisches Symphonie-Orchester Reutlingen\" which is now known as the \"\", serving as the conductor until 1950.\n\nGrischkat was in 1926 the first in Württemberg to perform Bach's \"St John Passion\" without cuts, and with period instruments. In 1935 he conducted Bach's \"St Matthew Passion\" in historically informed performance, which became influential in southern Germany.\n\nTo celebrate Bach's bicentenary of death in 1950, Grischkat compiled single cantata movements, with new texts, to a concert \"Vom Reiche Gottes\" (Of God's Kingdom), following an idea by Albert Schweitzer.\n\nGrischkat was at the same time the church musician of the in Reutlingen and from 1950 a professor of choral conducting at the Musikhochschule Stuttgart. Among his students were Frieder Bernius, Wolfgang Gönnenwein, and Helmuth Rilling.\n\nHe edited and published for Hänssler the series \"Die Kantate\", offering sheet music of sacred works and background. He died in Stuttgart.\n\nGrischkat recorded many Bach cantatas with the Schwäbischer Singkreis, beginning in 1951 with \"Jauchzet Gott in allen Landen\", BWV 51, with soloist Margot Guilleaume and the Bach-Orchester Stuttgart. He led in 1953 an early recording of Monteverdi's Vespers of 1610, at least of several movements, with soloists including Margot Guilleaume, Friederike Sailer, Lotte Wolf-Matthäus, Heinz Marten, Werner Hohmann and Franz Kelch. He conducted Bach's \"Christmas Oratorio\" in 1972, with Maria Friesenhausen, Hildegard Laurich, Peter Wetzler, Bruce Abel, Schwäbischer Singkreis and Südwestdeutsches Kammerorchester Pforzheim. He performed and recorded Bach's Mass in B minor in 1958, with Friederike Sailer, Margarethe Bence, Fritz Wunderlich and Erich Wenk, Schwäbischer Singkreis and the orchestra of the 35th Deutsches Bachfest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46448316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46448316", "title": "Hari Raoji Chiplunkar", "text": "Hari Raoji Chiplunkar\n\nRao Bahadur Hari Raoji Chiplunkar (1842-1896) Honorary Magistrate and President of the Landlord's Association in Pune, was a reformer, activist, and philanthropist, and close friend of intellectual and reformer, and founder of Satyashodhak Samaj, Jyotirao Phule. A prominent figure in the social and intellectual circles of Maharashtra, primarily Pune, Chiplunkar donated his land and funds, enabling Savitri and Jyotirao Phule to start the first girls schools in India in 1851 on Chiplunkar's estate, including donating a building for the primary education of lower caste children in 1864, currently operating as the Bholagir School, Municipal School No. 4.\n\nOn 19 March 1883 Chiplunkar was appointed as a member of the Poona Municipal Corporation where he effected administrative reform currently practiced, an honor given to twelve distinguished citizens including Gopal Krishna Gokhale, Jyotirao Phule, Dr. R.P. Paranjpe (KCIE), Hari Narayan Apte, Dr. Vishram Ramji Ghole, and Sir M Visvesvaraya.\n\nChiplunkar was a founding member of the Deccan Education Society, Pune, and Fergusson College, and remained an active member of the Satyashodhak Samaj from 1858-1883.\n\nKnown for his charismatic personality and affable nature, Hari Raoji Chiplunkar struck a friendship with the Duke of Connaught for whom he hosted a reception and banquet in 1888. Chiplunkar built the Connaught House in what is known today as Sadhu Vaswani Chowk, where the Duke and Duchess of Connaught were given a red carpet reception. It was at this banquet, on 2 March 1888 where among the royal guests, dignitaries, industrialists and preeminent families from Bombay and Pune, Mahatma Phule chose to appear as a poor farmer wearing only a short dhoti, an old shirt, and worn out shoes. He proceeded to make a stirring speech on the destitution of the untouchables and lower classes, encouraged the Duke to visit the villages of India and witness the conditions shared by nearly nineteen crore Indians living in abject poverty. He also asked the Duke convey to Queen Victoria his message about emancipating the masses through education.\n\nSocial reformer Savitribai Phule was present at Hari Raoji Chiplunkar's funeral in 1896. In 1991, the City of Pune, named the Hari Raoji Chowk commemorating Chiplunkar in Somwar Peth.\n"}
{"id": "1970847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1970847", "title": "Heino Eller Tartu Music College", "text": "Heino Eller Tartu Music College\n\nThe Heino Eller Tartu Music College is a music school in Tartu, Estonia, founded in 1919. It got its current name in 1971, after the Estonian composer and music teacher Heino Eller, who taught in the school from 1920 until 1940.\n\nHeino Eller's return to Tartu in 1920, to teach in the Tartu Music School, led to the development in the 1920s–1930s of the Tartu school of composition\n\nThose identified with the school included: \n"}
{"id": "1273488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1273488", "title": "Higher education in Iran", "text": "Higher education in Iran\n\nIran has a large network of private, public, and state affiliated universities offering degrees in higher education. State-run universities of Iran are under the direct supervision of Iran's Ministry of Science, Research and Technology (for non-medical universities) and Ministry of Health and Medical Education (for medical schools). According to article 3 of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iran guarantees \"free education and physical training for everyone at all levels, and the facilitation and expansion of higher education.\"\n\nThe existence of pre-Islamic era universities such as the School of Nisibis, Sarouyeh, Reishahr, and The Academy of Gundishapur provide examples of precedence of academic institutions of science that date back to ancient times.\n\nThe traditions and heritage of these centers of higher learning were later carried on to schools such as Iran's Nizamiyya, and Baghdad's House of Wisdom, during the Islamic era.\n\nIt was Abbas Mirza who first dispatched Iranian students to Europe for a western education.\n\nThe history of the establishment of \"western style\" academic universities in Iran (Persia) dates back to 1851 with the establishment of Darolfonoon – which was founded as a result of the efforts of the royal vizier \"Mirza Taghi Khan Amir Kabir\", aimed at training and teaching Iranian experts in many fields of science and technology.\n\nIn 1855 \"The Ministry of Science\" was first established, and Ali Gholi Mirza I'tizad al-saltaneh (علیقلی میرزا اعتضاد السلطنه) was appointed Iran's first Minister of Science by Nasereddin Shah.\n\nBy the 1890s Darolfonoon was competing with other prominent institutions of modern learning. The \"Military College of Tehran\" (Madraseh-ye Nezam), established in 1885 with a budget of 10,000-12,000 tomans, was its first rival; and in 1899 the \"College of political sciences\" (Madraseh-ye olum-e siyasi) was organized within the Foreign ministry.\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education, which oversees the operation of all institutes of higher education in Iran, was established in 1967. However, it was back in 1928 that Iran's first university, as we know it today, was proposed by an Iranian physicist, Mahmoud Hessaby. The University of Tehran (or Tehran University) was designed by French architect Andre Godard, and built in 1934. Today, Tehran University is Iran's largest university with over 32,000 students.\n\nIn the medical field, it was Joseph Cochran who first founded a professional school in Iran in 1878, and who is often credited for founding Iran’s \"first contemporary medical college\", as well as founding one of Iran's first modern hospitals (\"Westminster Hospital\") in Urmia. The medical faculty Cochran established at Urmia University was joined by several other Americans, namely Drs. Wright, Homlz, van Nourdon, and Miller. They were all buried in Urmia as their resting place after serving the area for many years.\n\nIn Tehran, Samuel M. Jordan, whom \"Jordan Ave.\" in Tehran is named after, also was directly responsible for the expansion of the American College in Tehran. The school received a permanent charter from the Board of Regents of the State University of New York in 1932.\nBy the end of the first Pahlavi period in 1941, the University of Tehran was still the only modern university in the country. Hence, the ministry of science commenced the establishment of other universities in Isfahan, Tabriz, Ahvaz, and Shiraz, with special emphasis given to the medical and veterinary sciences. Charles Oberling was highly instrumental in this regard.\n\nIn 1953, there were four universities with 14,500 undergraduate students whereas in 1977 there were 16 universities with 154,315 undergraduate students.\n\nThe Shah soon initiated projects to build Iranian universities modeled after American schools. Thus \"Pahlavi University\" (Shiraz University today), Sharif University of Technology, and Isfahan University of Technology, three of Iran's top academic universities were all directly modeled on American institutions such as the University of Illinois at Chicago, MIT, and the University of Pennsylvania. The Shah in return was generous in awarding American universities with financial gifts. For example, the University of Southern California received a gift from the Shah in the form of an endowed chair of petroleum engineering, and a million dollar donation was given to the George Washington University to create an Iranian Studies program.\n\nThe Iranian revolution put an end to the massive US-Iran academic relations. In 1980, a major overhaul in the academia and higher education system of Iran initiated by Ayatollah Khomeini led to what is referred to in Iran as \"Iran's Cultural Revolution\". However, all universities in the country were closed down from 1980 to 1983. In addition, Islamic curricula and Islamic educational setting were introduced when the universities were reopened.\n\nIn 1986, the ministry of higher education handed over supervision and overseeing of education in the medical sciences in Iran to the ministry of health, treatment and medical education. This was to optimize use of the medical resources in the country, and to promote health, treatment, teaching, and research more efficiently in the field.\n\nAfter the Iran–Iraq War, some new universities were founded and doctoral programs were developed in the previous universities. The number of university students is now more than six times as many as in 1979 (when Shah was overthrown), so that critics debate whether the national entrance exam is useful anymore or not.\n\nIn 2008, Iran had over 3.5 million students enrolled in universities. Some 1.7 million in various programs in Islamic Azad university and the remainder in State universities. In addition the new enrollment numbers for the academic year 2004 were 290 thousand in Azad universities, and 250 thousand in state universities. Iran has 54 state operated universities, and 42 state medical schools. These are primarily the top choice for students in national entrance exams, and have the largest and most prestigious programs. There are 289 major private universities operating as well.\nIn addition there are over 40,000 students engaged in master's programs and 20,000 students in PhD programs. In all these schools, except for private universities such as the Islamic Azad University system, tuition and room and board is mostly paid for by the government. The universities themselves largely operate on state budgets. There are also institutes like Payame Noor University that offer degrees remotely or online.\n\nSome schools offer degrees in conjunction with European universities. The International University of Chabahar for example offers programs under the guidance of London School of Economics and Political Science Goldsmiths University of London, and Royal Holloway. Other schools such as the Institute for Advanced Studies in Basic Sciences in Zanjan, have close collaboration with The International Centre for Theoretical Physics in Trieste, Italy for workshops, seminars, and summer schools. The Iranian government also offers intensely competitive but fully paid scholarships for successful applicants to pursue PhD-level studies in several foreign countries, mostly Great Britain.\n\nBy early 2000, Iran allocated around 0.4% of its GDP to R&D, which ranks it \"far behind industrialized societies\" and the world average of 1.4%. By 2009 this ratio of research to GDP reached 0.87% and the set target is 2.5%.\n\n\"U.S. News & World Report\" published a global ranking for universities and institutes of higher education in 2018. The best global universities in Iran were ranked as follows:\nRanking of Iranian universities\nIn terms of the number of papers published via Institute for Scientific Information (ISI), the 2007 ranking of medical and non-medical universities of Iran is as follows:\nRanking by number of publications\nThe most papers published in the following fields by order: \n\nReports for 2003 and 2005 are also available.\n\nISC's most recent list of the highest-ranked universities in the medical field for 2012 is:\n\n\nAccording to the 2007 rankings the top five rated schools in the dental field in Iran are:\n\nAccording to the 2010 rankings the top three rated schools in the pharmaceutical field in Iran are:\n\nAccording to the 2016 university ranking of Islamic countries the top-ranked engineering schools in the engineering field in Iran are:\n\nLarge libraries existed in Iran both before and after the advent of Islam and throughout many periods in Iran's history, including the libraries at Gondeshapur, School of Nisibis, and Sarouyeh during the pre-Islamic era of Iran.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, many schools of Nizamiyya harbored large collections of manuscripts and treatises. In Maragheh, Nasīr al-Dīn al-Tūsī built a library that reportedly contained some 40,000 volumes which was well financed and the royal library of the Samanid court in which Avicenna was granted special access to, is yet another fine example.\n\nThe first prototype of a modern national library in Iran was the Library of Dar al-Funun College established in 1851. In 1899 another library called the Nation's Library was inaugurated in Tehran. Finally, the National Library of Iran was inaugurated in 1937.\n\nIran's major national libraries today are:\n\nUnder the rule of the Islamic theocracy in Iran since 1979 revolution, the status of science and education has been dramatically affected in the country. In particular, following the so-called Iranian Cultural Revolution and Islamization of universities after a shutdown period, the quality of science and technology required for development dropped significantly but has since been revived, so much so that Iran ranked 40th in science production and first in scientific growth in the world in 2011.\n\nStudents of some minority religions have been barred from entering tertiary education institutions in Iran, particularly those of the Baha'i Faith. Since the Iranian Revolution of 1979 Baha'i students have been excluded from universities regardless of their national university examination results on basis of their religion. See Bahá'í Institute for Higher Education.\n\nAdditionally, in August 2012, 36 universities declared that 77 BA and BSc courses in 2012–2012 academic year would be \"single gender\" and effectively exclusive to men, limiting the options of female undergraduate students.\n\nIn accordance with the third five-year development plan, the “entrepreneurship development plan in Iranian universities”, (known as KARAD Plan) was developed, and launched in twelve universities across the country, under the supervision of Management and Planning Organization and the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology.\n\nIran tops the world countries in the brain drain phenomenon. In 2002, the CIA estimated that 77% of Iran's population aged 15 and over can read and write. By 2008, the adult literacy rate had reached 80.6%. A significant majority of this population is at or approaching collegiate levels. Of this population, nearly 150,000 are estimated to exit Iran every year.\n\nAccording to the Iranian government, in 2013, 12,000 foreign students were studying at Iranian universities while 55,686 Iranian students were studying abroad. Out of this number, 8,883 students were studying in Malaysia, 7,341 in the United States, 5,638 in Canada, 3,504 in Germany, 3,364 in Turkey, 3,228 in Britain, and the rest in other countries. But according to a newer estimate by the Minister of education, between 350 and 500 thousand Iranians were studying outside of the country in 2014. The difference remains unexplained. As of 2015, 42% of recent/young graduates were unemployed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4598933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4598933", "title": "Interdiscipline", "text": "Interdiscipline\n\nThe term interdiscipline or inter-discipline means an organizational unit that involves two or more academic disciplines, but which have the formal criteria of disciplines such as dedicated research journals, conferences and university departments. It is related to interdisciplinarity, but it is a noun used for a certain kind of unit (academic discipline). As shown in the example of demography below a field may be both a discipline and an interdiscipline at the same time. The example of Information science demonstrates that a field may be regarded as a discipline in some countries but an interdiscipline in other countries.\n\nGiesecke (1981) says about educational research (\"Pedagogy\") that is an \"aporetic science\", i.e. an interdiscipline.\n\nTengström (1993) emphases that cross-disciplinary research is a process, not a state or structure. He differentiates three levels of ambition regarding cross-disciplinary research:\n\n\nWhat is described here is a view of social fields as dynamic and changing. Library and information science is viewed as a field that started as a multidisciplinary approach based on literature, psychology, sociology, management, computer science etc., which is developing towards an academic discipline in its own right.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28053427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28053427", "title": "Kepler Museum", "text": "Kepler Museum\n\nThe Kepler Museum is a museum of astronomy in Prague, Czech Republic, named for the German astronomer Johannes Kepler. It was founded in 2009, the International Year of Astronomy, with financial support from the Magistrate of the Capital City of Prague and Agentura ProVas, professional and organisational support from the Czech Astronomic Society and using premises owned by Jitka Steinwaldová.\n\nThe three circles in the logo of the Kepler Museum represent the planet Mars, the Earth, and the Sun, the bodies whose mutual positions were studied by Johannes Kepler while he was in the city. The entrance tickets to the museum feature the astronomic dial of the Prague Astronomical Clock with the exact moment of entry to the museum, with the same data also expressed in the Old Bohemian and in the Babylonian manner. The sidereal time is also included. The entrance tickets were designed by Vojtěch Sedláček, CEO of Agentura ProVás.\n\nOn 31 December 2017, the Kepler Museum in the Old Town closed after eight years, to be taken over by the National Technical Museum (NTM). The Kepler Museum exhibition is being transferred to NTM premises on Letná. The scheduled opening Summer 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "35050740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35050740", "title": "Language planning and policy in Singapore", "text": "Language planning and policy in Singapore\n\nIn Singapore, language planning is associated with government planning. In this top-down approach, the government influences the acquisition of languages and their respective functions within the speech community through the education system. Language planning aims to facilitate effective communication within the speech community, which can result in a language shift or language assimilation. The goals of language planning are very much dependent on the political and social forces present in Singapore during two distinct periods: Colonisation by the British and the Post-Independence period after 1965.\n\nSingapore is a linguistically and ethnically diverse country with a population of about 5 million.\n\nOfficially, its ethnic composition is approximately 76.8% Chinese, 13.9% Malay, 7.9% Indian, while the remaining 1.4% are mainly Others, a miscellaneous category.\n\nGiven this diversity, the language policy in Singapore aims at cultivating amongst its citizens a bilingual proficiency in the English language and a mother tongue that is officially assigned to the specific ethnic communities.\n\nAlthough the English language is excluded from the list of official mother tongues (Mandarin, Bahasa Melayu, Tamil), it is still recognised as an official language for practical reasons such as ensuring socio-economic mobility. This is because the ethnically neutral status of English helps to ensure that the distribution of economic advantages is not seen as unduly privileging or benefiting a specific ethnic group, which would otherwise raise the danger of inter-ethnic tension. Additionally, the English language represents the idea of 'modernity' and its association with progress, science, technology and capitalism.\n\nAfter political independence in 1959, the Singapore Government officially accepted Malay as the national Language of Singapore. However, its importance gradually declined as a result of the social, political and economic developments that had taken place. When vernacular schools were closed in 1987, the Ministry of Education implemented the National System of Education.\n\nThe Bilingual Policy encourages Singaporeans to be proficient in both the English language, and in their respective ethnic mother tongues, which include Chinese Mandarin, Malay, and Tamil. Bilingual education is provided by the Ministry of Education in Singapore.\n\nThe Bilingual Policy also aims to promote better understanding amongst the three ethnic groups in line with the effort of nation building. Additionally, there was also the growing concern that Singapore was facing increasing Western influences, effecting a potential threat of the de-Asianisation or de-culturalisation of the people. Due to the increasing importance of English as an international language, many Singaporeans have started to pay more attention to the learning of the English language and focus less on the learning of their own mother tongue. The Bilingual Policy was then enacted to safeguard Asian identities and values. Alongside English, the Singapore Government aims to promote Mandarin Chinese, Malay and Tamil so as to prevent the erosion of culture and heritage of the three ethnic groups\n\nRacial harmony is a stated policy of the Singaporean government, and a racial harmony day is even celebrated. Usage of four official languages is an element of policy designed to promote racial harmony, as is bilingualism in accordance with the belief that the ethnic language is the \"carrier of culture\" while English is the \"language of commerce\", a choice motivated by the fact that English had historically been the language of the colonial administration, while being the native language of few Singaporeans at the time of the policy's implementation. With English as the lingua franca, no one ethnicity is favored, but the cultures are preserved. The idea behind this policy is that treating all languages as standard and thus equally prestigious will result in the speakers of each language being treated equally.\n\nWhile the Singaporean government promotes Standard Singapore English as a \"lingua franca\", it heavily discourages the usage of Singlish, a Chinese- and Malay-influenced, English-based creole language, widely spoken by Singaporeans, but virtually unintelligible to foreign speakers of English. Governments including those of Lee Hsien Loong, Lee Kuan Yew, and Goh Chok Tong have campaigned against the usage of Singlish, declaring it an obstacle to communication with the rest of the English-speaking world, and a substandard, \"broken English\", that ought not be part of Singapore's identity. A Speak Good English campaign aims \"to encourage Singaporeans to speak grammatically correct English that is universally understood\", while urging citizens to purge Singlish from their speech. In line with government policy, schools emphasize standard English, and try to minimize the usage of Singlish in the classroom, holding that Singlish hinders the learning of \"proper\" English. The Media Development Authority, a statutory board of the government, urges Singaporean mass media to use as little Singlish as possible, declaring it appropriate only for \"interviews, where the interviewee speaks only Singlish\". Despite these policies, however, the usage of Singlish outside formal, institutional contexts remains widespread.\n\nThe Singaporean government also promotes a single, standardized form of Chinese, discouraging the usage of dialects. While the Chinese community of Singapore historically spoke several varieties of Chinese, most of them mutually unintelligible, such as Cantonese, Teochew, and Hokkien, the government has promoted Standard Mandarin, both as a means of unifying Chinese Singaporeans under a common language, and to facilitate communication with Chinese people from outside Singapore. Since 1979, the Speak Mandarin Campaign has promoted use of Mandarin.\n\nThere were two prominent language ideologies that the Singapore government adopted:\n\n\nAfter independence, the Singapore government gave English Language, Mandarin Chinese, Malay Language and Tamil Language shared official status.\n\nThe Singapore government attempts to shun away from linguistic assimilation, as it believes it must acknowledge the need to embrace the co-existence of the four official languages in the context of a multi-racial Singapore.\n\nStatus Planning suggests that a particular language or variety may be chosen for specific purposes and given official status. This may result in a language policy which is a product of language planning, and can be comprehended within the discourse of language politics and society, or the more informal but powerful political and social aspects of language planning. In this view, one can argue that language status planning issues are related to political issues as status planning focuses on legislative decisions that affect the reallocation of language functions. Language status can also mean the position or standing of a language vis-à-vis other languages.\n\nThe Singapore Government recognises the importance of the English language for a multi-racial society and therefore it has been attributed the status of an official language and a de facto national language. The government has been active in promoting status planning in Singapore. One of the most distinct changes in the linguistic landscape of Singapore after independence was promoting the status of the English language. This is done by allocating resources to develop English in various functional domains such as the government, law, business, administration, and in particular, the medium of instruction in schools—even though time is allocated for the learning of Mother tongue languages.\n\nEnglish is the international lingua franca, it was no longer viewed as a colonial language but rather an international language permitting universal communication. The economic rewards of being proficient in English was emphasised upon perpetuating the mindset that English is the superior language in Singapore. Besides government administrative domains where English is widely practised, English has gradually been inculcated into social, family and individual habitats as well. Despite the government's attempt to maintain symbolic and cultural capital in the Mother tongues, English has been deeply integrated into the local linguistic landscape of Singapore.\n\nIt is evident that English has acquired a significant role in the linguistic landscape of Singapore, as Singapore is the only (non-native speaker) country which has adopted English as a working language, short of Singapore, no other country has channelled its language policies into churning out a population that is bi-literate in English and another official language.\n\nThe Speak Good English Movement is a government-initiated campaign which aims \"to encourage Singaporeans to speak grammatically correct English that is universally understood\".\n\nThe Singapore government sees Singlish as a variety whose increasing popularity might threaten the ability of Singaporeans to acquire competence in 'good' English. The latter is prized as a linguistic resource in a world of global economic competition, and the government fears that the presence of Singlish might actually undermine English language proficiency. This led the government, in 2000, to initiate the Speak Good English Movement (SGEM).\n\nOn 15 August 1999, \"The Sunday Times\" reported Lee Kuan Yew, Singapore's first Prime Minister, commented on Singlish as a 'handicap':\nThose Singaporeans who can speak good English should help to create a good environment for speaking English, rather than advocate, as some do, the use of Singlish… Singlish is a handicap we must not wish on Singaporeans.\nWhile the Speak Good English Movement has seen progress through its engagement via radio shows, on television programmes, and in giving out the 'Inspiring Teacher of English' award, it has controversy as well. Despite the government's label of Singlish as a 'handicap', the latter endorsed the usage of Singlish on more than one occasion.\n\nWhen the SARS crisis broke out in 2003, the Singapore government commissioned a SARS rap song (sometimes known as the \"SAR-vivor Rap\") to emphasise the importance of proper hygiene. The lyrics of the SARS rap song are heavily Singlish, containing terms such as \"lah\", \"leh\", and \"kiasu\".\n\nTo answer its contradictory stance, the Singapore government provided a rationale that \"Singlish was considered necessary in order to communicate with less-educated Singaporeans\".\n\nSingapore Day is a cultural-cum-cuisine-based event organised by the Prime Minister's Office Overseas Singaporean Unit. It is aimed at engaging Singaporeans residing overseas. It is held in different cities with a significant community of overseas Singaporeans.\n\nAccording to a report by \"The Sunday Times\" on 26 April 2009, the event made occasional use of Singlish, such as the lexical item 'chope', which is used to indicate the reservation of a seat. The intended audience there is not the 'less-educated', since most of the overseas Singaporeans are working professionals or university students pursuing a degree abroad.\n\nAcquisition Planning can be defined as the co-ordination of the language planning goals of the official parties involved in the implementation and integration of a language policy to ensure its timely and cost effective acquisition.\n\nIn Singapore, the government has sole control over the acquisition planning of language. This form of language planning is often done in line with status planning. The government aims to influence aspects of the language, status, distribution and literacy through the education system. Acquisition planning is often incorporated into language planning processes in which the statuses of languages are evaluated,corpuses are revised and these revisions are implemented in society through the education system.\n\nThe Curriculum Development Institute of Singapore (CDIS) was formed in 1980 as a division under the Ministry of Education. The institute had the sole task of producing teaching packages under the syllabuses prepared by the Curriculum Planning Division. In 1998, the Ministry of Education recognised a need to incorporate innovative changes to its Education system besides the current Bilingual Policy. The Ministry introduced three important national initiatives: 1)National Education, 2)Information Technology and 3)Thinking Skills, to the school curriculum The Curriculum Planning Division reduced the content of the existing syllabuses to integrate the three national initiatives into the school curriculum.\n\nUnder the Bilingual Policy, all students are educated in English as their first language. The Ministry of Education ensures that the Bilingual Policy is met by students in Primary and Secondary schools- not only are they required to master English as their first language, they also have to learn their Mother Tongue as a second language. They are offered Mandarin Chinese, Malay or Tamil depending on their father's ethnicity.\n\nWhile English is the core language of instruction in government schools, mother tongue languages are taught on a weekly basis. While \"mother tongue\" typically correlates to the first language (L1) overseas, in Singapore, the Ministry of Education refers to it as the \"ethnic language\" or the second language (L2). Singapore's language planning is known as exogenous planning, whereby a foreign language takes on the role as the main language of communication against the indigenous languages in the country. The education system aims to create a workforce that is bi-literate in English and Chinese/Malay/Tamil.\n\nDespite the intentions of the bilingual policy, there has been an inherent and significant shift from a predominant use of Mandarin Chinese to English within the Chinese community. The 1980 Population Census revealed that the use of Malay Language has dropped from 96.7% to 94.3%. The use of English Language in Malay households has increased from 2.3% to 5.5%.\n\nReport on the Ministry of Education, 1978: Assessment of Bilingual Policy:\n\nFormed in April 1978 and led by Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Goh Keng Swee, the Goh Report assessed the bilingual education programme in Singapore.The Ministry of Education saw its Bilingualism policy as not being universally effective. The Goh Report critiqued the Bilingual policy as ineffective bilingualism leading to the main cause of language education problems in Singapore. Although the Bilingual policy resulted in a rise in overall literacy rate, statistics reveal that less than 40% of the School-going Students had the minimum competency level in two languages at a time.\n\nUnder the review of Singapore’s education system:\n\n\nAn increasing number of Singaporeans are speaking and using English at home, leading to declining standards in the command of Mother Tongue. The impact of the bilingualism policy however, differs from one ethnic group to another.\n\nReport on the Ministry of Education (1978): Assessment of Bilingual policy for three ethnic groups; The Chinese community, the Malay Community, the Indian Community\n\nThe Chinese community struggled with learning two languages; English and Mandarin Chinese. When Chinese students were exposed to Mandarin Chinese in school, they felt that the language was foreign and hard to grasp. The home context did not favour the learning of Mandarin Chinese because Chinese dialects; Hokkien, Teochew, Cantonese, Hainanese, Hakka were the dominant mode of communication at home depending on dialectal group. The Ministry of Education only allowed Mandarin Chinese in the classroom, Chinese dialects were seen as inferior in status and were an impediment to learning Mandarin Chinese.\n\nIn light of the difficulties faced by the Chinese community, the government made several amendments to the educational system to help Chinese students cope with acquiring Mandarin Chinese:\n\n\nMalay is valued as the means for transmitting familial and religious values. Malay is widely practised in mosques and religious schools also known as '’Madrasahs'’. The use of Malay language has been largely reduced to religious and classroom domains only. The increase in the number of contexts of which English is being practised has resulted in a large proportion of the Malays assimilating to English.\n\nAs a result, the ML 'B' programme was introduced in 2000 to help less linguistically inclined students cope with acquiring the Malay language at oral- language proficiency levels. However, the ML 'B' programme was available only at secondary levels and was not offered at pre-university levels.\n\nUnder the Bilingualism Policy, Singaporean Indians only had the option of Tamil for their Mother Tongue. Non-Tamil Indian Students were thus at a disadvantage. In recognition of this, the Ministry of Education revised the Bilingual Policy in 1989 to allow Indian Students to choose between Bengali, Hindi, Punjabi, Gujarati and Urdu as their Mother Tongue.\n\nThe development and implementation of the Bilingual Policy is an example of acquisition planning.The Bilingual policy places excessive demands on average students. Most students tackle two foreign languages at primary school level because most of them speak Chinese dialects at home and Mandarin Chinese is used in schools for Chinese lessons. The Ministry of Education felt that resources were not effectively employed to meet the goals of the policy. Therefore, amendments were made to allow for more flexibility and to cater to the diverse linguistic needs of the population:\n\n\nUnder this new curriculum, the diverse needs of the students could be met and they could effectively maximise their linguistic capabilities. However, the issue of the lack of command in English was highlighted again in the \"Report for Moral Education\" in 1979.\n\nCorpus planning focuses on changes by deliberate planning to the actual corpus or shape of a language. It deals with codification, and can play a significant role in implementation and elaboration stages. Elaboration can be considered as a language task resulting in increased sophistication of the chosen code.\n\nCorpus planning is often undertaken by planners with great linguistic expertise. Corpus planning is also referred as making language planning decisions to engineer changes in the structure of a language. The Singapore Government has been active in status planning and acquisition planning however with regards to corpus planning in English, nothing has been done.The government modelled Singaporean English after Standard British English, without recognising the internal issues of English which must be specific to the local context. Due to the lack of a government body that deals with language issues such as codification and purification, there is negligence to local English, it becomes difficult to ascertain whether there is a Standard Singapore English.\n\nWith respect to Chinese language, the government selected Mandarin Chinese as the variety of Chinese language that takes precedence over other social and regional dialects i.e., Hokkien, Teochew, Cantonese, Hainanese, Hakka. Standardization generally entails increasing the uniformity of the norm, as well as of the norm. The government adopted Mandarin Chinese as one of the four official languages in Singapore and it is mandatory that the Chinese population in Singapore learn Mandarin Chinese as their mother tongue in schools. In addition the government launched the Speak Mandarin Campaign to promote the prestige of Mandarin Chinese against other Chinese dialects.\n\nThe Speak Mandarin Campaign was launched by then Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew in 1979. The campaign seeks to encourage the use of Mandarin and to discourage the use of dialects, characterising the latter as 'burdens,' as summarized in Goh Chok Tong's (then First Deputy Prime Minister) speech marking the 1986 Speak Mandarin Campaign:\nParents know that our bilingual education system is here to stay, when they drop dialects in conversation with their children they are recognising that the continued use of dialects will add to the learning burden of their children. \nThe success of the campaign was evident 20 years from the launch of the campaign. The campaign has significantly reduced the number of dialect speakers in Singapore. The use of Chinese dialect at home dropped from 81.4% in 1980 to 30.7% in 2000. Meanwhile, households that claimed to use Mandarin as the dominant language at home increased from 10.2% in 1980 to 35% in 2000.\n\nAlthough the campaign is successful in reducing the number of dialect speakers in Singapore, it is not always received positively. This is due to two key reasons:\n\n\nThe reason why Mandarin has been chosen among the various Chinese dialects is that it is supposedly able to unite the different dialect groups, and it is also supposedly the variety associated with ancient Chinese culture and its values.\nThis is not to say that the government considers the dialects to be totally without cultural value. The government does at times acknowledge that the dialects are also capable of conveying traditional Chinese values.\n\nExcerpted from a speech made by then Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong during the 1991 Speak Mandarin Campaign:\nAlthough Chinese literature, idioms and proverb can be translated into English, their full meaning may be lost in the process. A Chinese Singaporean who does not know Chinese- either Mandarin or dialect- runs the risk of losing the collective wisdom of the Chinese civilization.\nNon-Mandarin Chinese language speakers have complained that their children have to study two foreign languages — English and Mandarin. This is contrasted to a possible alternative policy of English and their native language, and that the emphasis on Mandarin threatens family ties, as older generations are often not conversant in Mandarin (unless it is their native tongue). Some critics include that the Mandarin education system's goal of promoting cultural identity has left many younger generations of Mandarin speakers unable to communicate with their non-Mandarin Chinese language-speaking grandparents.\n\nSingapore's Bilingual Policy has been commended on contributing to the country's economic success. The social and political stability that Singapore has enjoyed all these years has also been attributed to the Bilingual policy. There are however, a lot existing issues and potential problems underlying the bilingual policy, while the English language was useful in attaining national cohesion within the Multi-racial Country, Mandarin Chinese, Malay Language, Tamil Language have lost their prestige in the society. To rectify these issues, the government, the policy makers and the teaching professions should co-operate with one another. As front-line practitioners, local teachers have direct experience on the needs and difficulties of students. Parents and peers are \"invisible planners\" who have power to determine the success of the government's language policy. The collective collaboration of the government, policy makers, local teachers, parents and peers more effective and indigenised language policy can be designed.\n\nPolicy discourse in Singapore has largely overlooked the fact that the linguistic market consists of permeable boundaries and the value of linguistic capital for each language changes as internal and external factors interact together. The Ministry of Education was critiqued as failing to recognise that perceptions regarding linguistic capital can change, therefore Language Policy implementation (Bilingual Policy) need to consider the feelings and willingness of the recipients as this ultimately determines the final acceptance and success of the policy. Language Policy and implementations need to consider bottom up processes (Individuals and Unofficial Institutions), and not just designed from the top (Government and Official Agencies). The population’s perceptions regarding prestige and image of Ethnic Languages are important parameters that need to be established and analysed in accordance with the Government’s Language Policies plans to account for a multicultural country like Singapore.\n\nThe political advantages that English has to offer cannot be denied. While the bilingual policy aims to educate its population in enhancing communication in the international market, it is also able to protect the cultural identities of the indigenous groups by embracing multiculturalism.However, the processes of globalisation exert increasing pressure on the population to assimilate towards English at the expense of their mother tongues. While diversity breeds potential threats to globalisation, long-term language planning must be sensitive enough to tackle the precarious linguistic situation to protect Mandarin Chinese, Malay and Tamil, perhaps even Hindi, Punjabi, Gujarati and Urdu alongside English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4514708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4514708", "title": "Liceo scientifico", "text": "Liceo scientifico\n\nLiceo scientifico (literally \"scientific lyceum\") is a type of secondary school in Italy. It is designed to give students the skills to progress to any university or higher educational institution. Students can attend the \"liceo scientifico\" after successfully completing middle school (\"scuola media\").\n\nThe curriculum is devised by the Ministry of Education, and emphasises the link between the humanistic tradition and scientific culture. It covers a complete and widespread range of disciplines, including Italian language and literature, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, history, philosophy, Latin language and culture, English language and culture, art history and technical drawing. Students typically study for five years, and attend the school from the age of 14 to 19. At the end of the fifth year all students sit for the \"esame di Stato\", a final examination which leads to the \"maturità scientifica\".\n\nA student attending a \"liceo\" is called \"liceale\", although the more generic terms \"studente\" (male) and \"studentessa\" (female) are also in common use. Teachers are known as \"professore\" (male) or \"professoressa\" (female).\n\n\"Liceo scientifico\" was created with the Gentile reform in 1923. Originally, students attended the school for four years and the curriculum was derived from that of the \"ginnasio\", a humanity-centered type of secondary school similar to today's liceo classico. \n\nThis meant that, despite its name, the \"liceo scientifico\" had more teaching hours dedicated to Latin language and literature than mathematics. Moreover, students that completed the school were not allowed to progress to university courses in the humanities or jurisprudence, while students that completed the \"liceo classico\" were allowed to progress to any university course. These limitations drew several criticisms from the academic world.\n\nThe curriculum and structure underwent several changes over the course of the following century. Most importantly, in 1969 the ban preventing students of the \"liceo scientifico\" from entering many university courses was finally lifted. \nIn 1991 and again later in 1995, school reforms introduced an alternative curriculum, \"Piano Nazionale di Informatica\" (PNI, literally \"National Plan of Computer Studies\"). The new curriculum differed from the old one not only by including computer programming, but also in having more teaching hours dedicated to mathematics and physics. This new curriculum was optional for schools to implement. Other alternative curricula were also made available for schools to choose from, such as a bilingual curriculum introducing the teaching of a second language in addition to English.\n\nThe latest major reform, in 2008, eliminated all previous alternative curricula. It significantly increased the teaching hours dedicated to scientific subjects and decreased those dedicated to Latin. In addition to the standard curriculum, it also created the alternative curriculum \"opzione scienze applicate\" (\"applied sciences option\") which involves more teaching and laboratory hours for the sciences and does not include Latin.\n\nThe tables below show the hours of teaching dedicated to each subject per week for the two available curricula.\n\nThe final exam is officially called \"esame di Stato\", although the old name \"esame di maturità\" is still in common use. \nIt is composed of three written and one oral part: \n\nStudents are examined by an exam committee which is formed in equal parts by their own teachers and teachers coming from other schools. The first and second tests are written by the Ministry of Education, while the third test and the oral exam are prepared and administered by the exam committee.\n\nThe final grade is given as a number out of 100, and is the sum of the points obtained by students in the final exam and the credits they accumulated over the previous years.\n\n"}
{"id": "42770787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42770787", "title": "Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education", "text": "Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education\n\nThe Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education (MSBTE) is an autonomous board of education in the state of Maharashtra, India. It designs and implements diploma, post diploma and advanced diploma programs to affiliated institutions. The board was established in 1963 to cater the increasing needs of affiliated institutions and their students.\n\nThe establishment of a separate board responsible for higher education dates back to 1963. Before the country's independence for British Raj, diploma courses in Engineering and Technology were provided institutions like the College of Engineering, Pune, Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute, Mumbai, Cusrow Wadia Institute of Technology, Pune and Government Polytechnic, Nagpur. A Directorate of Technical Education was set up in 1948 to control technical education in all levels. As industrial development increased, the demand for diploma courses also did, and the government established a separate Board of Technical Examinations in August 1963. It was later renamed to Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education and given an autonomous status in 1999.\n\nMSBTE conduct Summer and Winter Exams every six months. The Summer exams are held during April/May Month and Winter exams are held during November/December month.\n\nAll polytechnic institutes in the maharashtra are affiliated to MSBTE, out of which 43 are Government Polytechnic institutes.\nA total of 25 institutes are affiliated to the board for the academic year 2013-2014.\n"}
{"id": "3916557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3916557", "title": "Mahe v Alberta", "text": "Mahe v Alberta\n\nMahe v Alberta, [1990] 1 S.C.R. 342 is a leading decision of the Supreme Court of Canada. The ruling is notable because the court established that section 23 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" requires that parents of the official-language minority in each province have the right either to be represented on the school board, or to have a school board of their own, in order to provide adequate protection for the education rights of their children.\n\nThree Edmonton citizens, Jean-Claude Mahe, Angeline Martel and Paul Dubé, were dissatisfied with the quality of the French language schools provided by the Alberta government. In 1982 they submitted a proposal to the Minister of Education for a new French elementary school that would be administered by a committee of parents within an autonomous French school board.\n\nThe Minister of Education told them that it was not in their policy to make such arrangements and so they suggested they try to do it through the public school board. The board rejected them. Mahé and the others brought an action against the government of Alberta for violating their right to a Francophone-run education system under section 23 of the \"Charter\".\n\nThe questions before the Supreme Court were:\n\nThe Court held that section 23 guarantees representation on the school board, and exclusive control over the children's education with respect to culture; or it can guarantee a separate school board. However, there must be sufficient minority language population to warrant either level of protection. In this particular case, the Court decided representation on an existing school board would be sufficient, and held that this did not interfere with denominational school rights under section 29 of the \"Charter\" since it merely affected language.\n\nThe Court's unanimous decision was given by Chief Justice Brian Dickson He began by examining the purpose of section 23 which is to \"preserve and promote the two official languages of Canada, and their respective cultures\". The section was intended to be remedial so as to prevent the loss of a minority group's language and cultural identity and so must be interpreted in light of section 15 and 27 of the \"Charter\".\n"}
{"id": "1160651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160651", "title": "Marathon Reading", "text": "Marathon Reading\n\nMarathon Reading is a yearly program put on by the UCLA department of English, where a group of students, faculty, community members, alumni, and often even celebrities read a novel (or two) out loud non-stop for a 24-hour period.\n\nTexas Tech University also hosts an annual marathon reading, coordinated by Dr. Rich Rice, Assistant Professor of English. Other higher-learning institutions that put on annual marathon readings include James Madison College at Michigan State University, Cleveland State University, Grand Valley State University, and Ball State University, Dr. Rice's doctoral alma mater.\n\nThe New Bedford Whaling Museum in Massachusetts hosts an annual nonstop reading aloud of Moby-Dick, the novel by Herman Melville. Held each January since 1995, the event marks the anniversary of Melville’s 1841 departure from the Port of New Bedford and Fairhaven aboard the whale ship Acushnet. Hundreds attend the approximately 25-hour multimedia event, which is live-streamed on the Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "52284097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52284097", "title": "Mosenson Youth Village", "text": "Mosenson Youth Village\n\nThe Mosenson Youth Village is a youth village in Hod HaSharon, Israel. The youth village was named after Ben Zion Mossensohn, a teacher, public figure and one of the founders of Tel Aviv.\n\nMosinzon school was established as a school for agriculture, and was part of a network of schools of the Zionist Youth Movement. Its goal was to teach the young immigrants (\"olim\") arriving from the diaspora, along with Israeli youth from around the country, for life of labor, creativity and self-fulfillment, in science, technology, arts and sports. To this end, a boarding school was established, and exists until these days, as part of the youth village.\n\nBy the end of World War II, the youth village received young Holocaust survivors who immigrated to Israel. In 1943 the first class of the survivors graduated.\n\nComprehensive studies started in 1967 in collaboration with the local municipality of Hod-Hasharon.\n\nCurrently the youth village consists of a high-school and a boarding school. The school hosts the children of the local communities, and offers technological and comprehensive studies. Its present principal is Nurit Cohen.\n\nThe school was awarded by the Ministry of Education best absorption of new education workers in 2015-16. In addition, it received the Education Award for cultural collaboration from the Teachers' Association.\n\nThe boarding school admits students from all around Israel as well as students from abroad. It is considered to be one of the leading boarding schools in Israel, and recently has received Best Boarding School Education Award.\n\nMosenson high school offers a variety of unique classes, including sports – such as dancing, swimming, basketball, football and personal sports. It also offers classes of biomedicine, electronics, film, \"Nachshon Program\" and general studies.\n\nStudents of the Naale program, from North America, Europe, South Africa, and other countries study at the youth village, where there is also a special program for students who do not speak Hebrew, to enable them to become part of the Israeli society.\n\n"}
{"id": "7851183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7851183", "title": "National Commission on Excellence in Education", "text": "National Commission on Excellence in Education\n\nThe National Commission on Excellence in Education produced the 1983 report titled A Nation at Risk. It was chaired by David P. Gardner and included prominent members such as Nobel prize-winning chemist Glenn T. Seaborg.\n\nIt produced a short summary of its findings called The United States System of Education in which it gives a short history of education since colonial days and, after a Preface, gives an overall view on control and financing of education, organization and structure, statistical data and conclusions. \n\nIn 1983, the New York Times published an article that cited a passage from the “Pursuit of Excellence: Education and the Future of America” by the Rockefeller Brothers’ Fund’s panel, “America at Mid-Century.” At that time, the “Pursuit of Excellence” was the slogan of American politicians. In the same way, Excellence was a popular axiom after the landmark report entitled, “Nation at Risk” by the National Commission on Excellence in Education. \n\nThe article emphasized among several points the observation that teachers are frequently regarded as identical units of a factory assembly line in the education sector. Mentors regardless of competence teach the same subjects in the same grade, use one kind of textbook, deal with the same number of pupils, and receive equal salaries. This trend has not changed since 1958. The late John W. Gardner who used to be Education Secretary of former President Lyndon Johnson and afterwards Chairman of the Commission insisted that students with academic proficiency should take an additional three years each of mathematics, science, and one foreign language which did not happen. \n\nThe 36-page Nation at Risk Report criticized the state of schools in the United States and clamored for numerous reforms to rectify supposed flaws in the country’s public education system at that time. The commentary described education in America as mediocre. There were few indications of assurance because of test scores that were declining at a rapid pace, low salaries of teachers, and substandard training programs for educators. The turnover rate of teachers became alarmingly high. Statistics showed that some 23 million American grownups did not have sufficient reading and writing skills. This report gained plenty of attention from media. \n\n"}
{"id": "2166199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2166199", "title": "National Széchényi Library", "text": "National Széchényi Library\n\nThe National Széchényi Library () (OSZK) is a library in Budapest, Hungary. It is one of two Hungarian national libraries, the other being University of Debrecen Library.\n\nThe library was founded in 1802 by the highly patriotic Hungarian aristocrat Count Ferenc Széchényi. Széchényi traveled the world buying Hungarian books, which he assembled and donated to the nation. In the following year the public library was opened in Pest. Széchényi's example resulted in a nationwide movement of book donations to the library.\n\nIn 1808, the Hungarian National Assembly (\"Diet\") created the Hungarian National Museum to collect the historical, archaeological and natural relics of Hungary. The Museum was merged into the Library and for the last 200 years this is how it has existed, a national depository for written, printed and objective relics of the Hungarian past.\n\nIn 1846, the Hungarian National Museum moved into its new building but it was not until 1949 that the Library became a separate entity again, with its current name. In 1985, the library moved to its new home at the Buda Castle Palace. The NSZL works on its catalogue's semantic availability.\n\n\n\nIn 2014, a Hungarian librarian discovered four pages of Mozart's original score (autograph) of the sonata in Budapest's National Széchényi Library. Until then, only the last page of the autograph survived. The paper and handwriting of the four pages matched that of the final page of the score, held in Salzburg. Zoltán Kocsis gave the first performance of the discovered score in September 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37477280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37477280", "title": "Polytech Nice Sophia", "text": "Polytech Nice Sophia\n\nPolytech Nice Sophia is the Nice Sophia Antipolis University Engineering School called \"Grande Ecole d'Ingenieur Française\". Polytech Nice Sophia is based in the middle of the French Silicon Valley : Sophia Antipolis, where there is a synergy between Education - Research - Industry.\n\nThe school is currently hosting 989 engineering students, 50 doctoral students, 75 faculty members, 22 administrative and technical staff and 7 research laboratories associated. More than 200 engineers graduate each year.\n\nPolytech Nice Sophia is membership of the Polytech Group Network.\n\nPolytech Nice Sophia School is created as a result of the association of the Engineering Schools of ESINSA, ESSI and Magisterium of Pharmacology at the publication of Decree No. 2005 - 219 at the French \"Journal Officiel\" on March 10, 2005.\nPolytech Nice Sophia is the Polytechnic Engineering school of Nice Sophia University (UNS). Its operation is governed by Articles L.713-2 and L.713-9 of the French education Code.\n\nThe new Sophie-Politan campus of Nice Sophia University was inaugurated on September 2012, while the project is still not finished. Polytech campus is based on two separate area :\n\nThe new school is a member of Polytech Group was managed by Francis Rocca until the September 1st, 2007.\nPhilippe Gourbesville succeeds to Roger Marlin and seat as the Director of Polytech Nice Sophia considering the agreement of the School Administrative Council (AC) on July 2, 2007. Philippe Gourbesville was re-elected on July 11, 2012 for a term of 5 more years.\n"}
{"id": "19953211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19953211", "title": "Princess Grace Foundation-USA", "text": "Princess Grace Foundation-USA\n\nThe Princess Grace Foundation-USA is a national foundation in the United States which is dedicated to identifying and assisting emerging talent in theater, dance, and film by awarding grants in the form of scholarships, apprenticeships, and fellowships. \n\nIt was named after Grace Kelly, Princess of Monaco. The Foundation has awarded over $8 million to nearly 500 theater, dance, and film artists nationwide. It continues to fund its inaugural disciplines and has expanded its grants program to include playwriting and choreography grants within the theater and dance categories. \n\nPrince Rainier of Monaco established the program to keep helping emerging artists realize their career goals as Princess Grace did during her lifetime. Prince Rainier's children continue to assist in the program in its 28th year. Notable supporters of the Foundation during its inception include Gant Gaither, Frank Sinatra, Cary Grant, John Johnson, William P. Rogers, Mary Wells Lawrence, and Lynn Wyatt.\n\nIn 1982, the Board of Trustees, under Robert Hausman, incorporated Princess Grace Foundation-USA as a not-for-profit public charity. In 1984, after the initial fund raising phase was complete, financial grants in the form of scholarships, apprenticeships, and fellowships were awarded to artists associated with schools or companies in the dance and theater disciplines. An arts advisory board composed of distinguished professionals in each of those fields was appointed to choose the most talented applicants as Awards recipients. President Reagan and his wife oversaw the first gala in Washington, D.C.; a tradition now continued annually in the Awards Gala in New York City.\n\nIn 2008, the AAB formed a partnership with Baryshnikov Arts Center (BAC) to provide further support for Princess Grace Awards winners. The Works in Progress Residency provides a cash award of around $25,000 and residence at the Baryshnikov Arts Center, in support of the multimedia and interdisciplinary artistic pursuits of Princess Grace Awards winners. The Residency enables these artists to explore, experiment, and push the boundaries of their work in an environment that focuses on process over product. In 2010, three artists received BAC Residencies: two in Theater and one in Dance.\n\nIn 2009, the AAB formed a partnership with Steppenwolf Theatre Company to provide further support for its Theater Awards winners. The goal of this alliance is to provide a Princess Grace Theater Awards winner with an opportunity to learn from a more established Awards winner by serving as a Co-Assistant Director on a production scheduled as a part of the Steppenwolf season. The partnership has paired Alex Torra with Anna D. Shapiro on a production of UP! in 2009 and plans to pair another director with Tina Landau on a production of Hot L Baltimore in 2011.\n\nCurrently, John F. Lehman, Jr. is at the helm, Albert II, Prince of Monaco, serves as Vice-Chairman, and Toby Boshak, who has been with the Foundation for fourteen years, is the Executive Director. \n\nPast winners of the Awards who distinguish themselves in their artistic disciplines since receiving their initial Princess Grace Awards are eligible to win the Foundation’s highest honor, the Princess Grace Statue Award. In addition to a $25,000 unrestricted cash gift, these awardees are presented with a bronze statuette of Princess Grace created by the Dutch artist Kees Verkade. To date, fifty-one artists have received this award.\n\nIn 2005, the board of trustees inaugurated the Prince Rainier III Award, in honor of the man who helped begin the Foundation. This Award is presented to eminent artists who have not only been highly successful in their careers, but have made significant humanitarian contributions to their fields. To date, Mikhail Baryshnikov (2005), Twyla Tharp (2006), George Lucas (2007), Glenn Close (2008), Mandy Patinkin (2009), Denzel Washington and Pauletta Washington (2010) and Julie Andrews (2011) Dick Van Dyke (2014) Robert Redford and Sibylle Redford (2015) have received this honor, which includes a grant to the philanthropic organization of their choice.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52459571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52459571", "title": "Professor Watchlist", "text": "Professor Watchlist\n\nProfessor Watchlist is a website run by Turning Point USA that lists U.S. professors deemed to \"discriminate against conservative students, promote anti-American values and advance leftist propaganda in the classroom.\" It was launched in 2016. As of December 2016, the website included about 200 professors.\n\nThe list's claims about the people it includes have been contested as misleading or inaccurate, and its existence has been criticized as a threat to academic freedom.\n\nCampus Reform, a part of the Leadership Institute, and Discover the Networks, a website run by the David Horowitz Freedom Center, were the sources for most of the professors on the Professor Watchlist.\n\n\"Slate\" columnist Rebecca Schuman described the website as \"abjectly terrifying\" and said that she feared for the safety of the listed professors. Some have criticized the website as a threat to academic freedom; Hans-Joerg Tiede, the associate secretary for the American Association of University Professors' department of academic freedom, tenure and governance, told \"The\" \"New York Times\": \"There is a continuing cycle of these sorts of things. They serve the same purpose: to intimidate individuals from speaking plainly in their classrooms or in their publications.\"\n\nCritics including Peter Dreier of Occidental College—who is listed on the site for having criticized the National Rifle Association and using Howard Zinn's \"A People's History of the United States\" as a required text—have pointed out errors of fact that may make Professor Watchlist less than reliable as a source of information. Dreier's entry in the website lists him as a former employee of the Industrial Areas Foundation and as the man who inspired college student Barack Obama to become a community organizer. Dreier identifies these claims about him as \"complete fantasy\". He also noted elements of his biography that the website completely omitted, such as his work with labor unions, his activism in favor of a minimum wage, and the books which he has authored. \n\nKent State professor Julio Pino told \"The New York Times\" the site is \"a kind of normalizing of prosecuting professors, shaming professors, defaming professors.\"\n\nThe website's organizers have responded by claiming that it simply provides conservative students with a guide to their professors, akin to Ratemyprofessors.com, enabling them to avoid left-wing classes.\n\nOver one hundred University of Notre Dame faculty members signed an open letter asking to be included in the site, saying in part:\nIn response to the Notre Dame letter, University of Chicago psychology professor Leslie Kay started the website \"Free Academics\". This website lists the names of professors across the United States who have signed it to ask for their names to be added to the list. As of December 2016, it had over 1,500 signatories.\n\n"}
{"id": "14781921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14781921", "title": "Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills", "text": "Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills\n\nQualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status is a designation awarded to teachers in the Further Education and Post-Compulsory Education & Training sectors by the Education & Training Foundation (ETF) in the United Kingdom.\n\nSince 1 April 2012, teachers with Qualified Teacher Learning and Skills (QTLS) status have also been recognised as qualified to teach in schools.\n\nHolders of QTLS who are members of the Society for Education & Training (SET) may be appointed to permanent positions as qualified teachers, without any further induction requirements.\n\nQTLS is therefore recognised as equivalent to QTS . \n\nFrom November 2014, QTLS has been offered by the Education & Training Foundation (ETF) to members of the Society for Education & Training (SET) for a fee of £485. In order to obtain QTLS, the candidate is required to register with SET, undertake annual Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and complete SET's 'Professional Formation' process. \n\nPrior to November 2014, QTLS was offered by the Institute for Learning (IfL) which was absorbed into the Education & Training Foundation (ETF) on 31 October 2014.\n\nQTLS is equivalent to QTS. Should an individual want to teach in maintained schools, the same way as any other teacher, then they must hold QTLS, currently be, and remain a member of the Society for Education & Training (SET).\n\nThe PGCE in Post-Compulsory Education & Training and the Diploma in Education and Training (including its predecessors, e.g. DTLLS) are the qualifications which qualify a teacher to attain QTLS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10632568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10632568", "title": "Rōnin (student)", "text": "Rōnin (student)\n\nIn Japan, a is a student who has graduated from middle school or high school but has failed to enter a school at the next level, and consequently is studying outside of the school system for entrance in a future year. \"Rōnin\" may study at a \"yobikō\".\n\nThe term \"rōnin\" is colloquial; the word is more formal. The term derives from their having no school to attend, as a \"rōnin\", a masterless samurai, had no leader to serve.\n\nSometimes, the term 二浪 (short form) or 二年浪人 (full form, 二年 - second year) is used for student who failed exams twice.\n\n\"Rōnin\" appear frequently in fiction and Japanese popular culture. As an example, the manga and anime series \"Love Hina\" features three main characters, Keitaro Urashima, Naru Narusegawa, and Mutsumi Otohime, who are described as \"rōnin\" throughout most of the series. In the manga and anime series \"Chobits\", the protagonist, Hideki Motosuwa, is a \"rōnin\" studying at a preparatory school to get into college. \"Maison Ikkoku\" also features a \"rōnin\" as its main character; the series centers around his studying for exams as he is distracted by others that he lives with.\nThe protagonist of \"Sekirei\", Minato Sahashi, is also a \"rōnin\". \"Kanamemo\"'s Hinata Azuma is a roninsei as well due to her love of gambling and money making, activities which hinder her studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54925445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54925445", "title": "Sarah Mundell Crane", "text": "Sarah Mundell Crane\n\nSarah Mundell Crane (1855 – January 4, 1914) known professionally as Mrs. A. Ogden Crane, was an American concert singer and musical educator. She toured with her three sisters and niece, who were known as the Mundell or Amphlon Quartet, and later became a successful music instructor.\n\nSarah E. Mundell was born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1855, to Alfred Mundell and Sarah A. Robert. The family house was at 77 New York Avenue, Brooklyn. The Mundells had five daughters other than Sarah: Mrs G. F. Underhill, Lavinia A. Sutcliffe (b. 1860), Martha Louise (b. 1862), Isabelle F. (b. 1865) and Ida May (b. 1858). They had also one son, Willie P. (b. 1866). On April 20, 1896 the Mundells celebrated their 50th anniversary with a party worthy of notice in local newspapers.\n\nShe received her musical education in New York, her own mother had a fine voice and was for many years a soloist in a prominent church in Brooklyn. She studied for six years under Antonio Barilli and for five years under William Courtney.\n\nMrs. Ogden Crane adopted the pure Italian method and Style of singing. Her voice was a dramatic soprano of wide range. \nShe was a member of the choirs in the South Congregational Church, Brooklyn, in St. Ann Church, the Church of the Puritans and St. James's Methodist Episcopal Church, New York. \n\nShe was well known on the concert stage, having traveled over nearly every state in the union, and in 1890 made a tour through the South with her three sisters and niece, who were known as the Mundell or Amphlon Quartet: M. Louise Mundell, Lavinia A. Sutcliffe, Isabel Mundell and Juliet Underhill. M. Louise and Isabelle F. never married and lived for all their life in Brooklyn.\n\nHer repertory of oratorios and standard concert pieces was large, and she won an enviable reputation. As an instructor she had a large number of pupils, both professional and amateur, from all parts of the country.\n\nIn 1894 she performed \"Columbia\" at the dedication of the newly built City Hall in Bayonne, New Jersey. \nIn April 1894 her pupils gave the operetta \"Coronation of the Rose\", under Mrs. Crane's direction, at Hardman Hall, New York.\nIn 1896 she performed in the \"Doctor of Alcantara: Opera Bouffe in Two Acts\".\n\nCrane lived at the Carnegie Hall Apartments, Manhattan, where she had a music studio on the 11th floor for 15 years. Previously she had a vocal studio and private concert-room at 3 East 14th Street. She had one son, Harry Ogden Crane (September 1, 1873, Brooklyn, New York – May 14, 1940 in Hollywood, California), a minor silent film actor mostly known for his appearance in \"The Lost Freight Car\" (1911), \"The Grey Sisterhood\" (1916) and \"Her Five-Foot Highness\" (1920); Harry Ogden Crane married Grace Benham (June 25, 1876, Kansas – November 19, 1968, Pasadena, California), a silent film actress.\n\nShe died suddenly on January 4, 1914, while visiting a friend, Marie Birdslee, at the Van Courtlandt Hotel, 142 West 49th Street.\n"}
{"id": "30459919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30459919", "title": "Speech Buddies", "text": "Speech Buddies\n\nSpeech Buddies are a series of speech therapy tools that are used to remediate articulation and speech sound disorders using the widely accepted teaching method of tactile feedback. Articulation, or speech sound disorders occur when a person has difficulty producing a sound correctly. Sounds may be left off, substituted, added or changed, making it difficult to be understood. Often occurring when children are learning to speak, these errors are considered a disorder if they persist after a certain developmental age. A developmental age at which a child should be able to correctly produce a certain sound is different depending on the difficulty of the sound. The B-sound is one of the first mastered, while the R-sound is more difficult and may not be mastered until several years later. Most articulation disorders are of no known cause, though many can be attributed to other disorders such as autism, or hearing impairment.\n\nSpeech Buddies help treat articulation disorders. There are five different Speech Buddies, each one addressing an individual sound: R, S, L, CH or SH. These tools teach correct tongue placement when trying to produce problem sounds. This type of learning is called tactile feedback, which uses the sense of touch to promote learning.\n\nPreliminary research results from a single blind randomized controlled trial suggest that they may increase the speed in which a child can learn to correct his speech sound disorder. Ongoing research is exploring the use of Speech Buddies to help in other speech therapy applications including foreign accent reduction, developmental verbal dyspraxia, acquired apraxia of speech from stroke or traumatic brain injury (TBI). Experts have published clinical experiences using Speech Buddies for articulation disorders and apraxia in industry blogs such as Play on Words, Mommy Speech Therapy and traditional publications such as the Chicago Tribune. On May 31, 2011, Dr. Max Gomez of WCBS-NY reported on how Speech Buddies are being used to reduce overall cost and treatment time of speech therapy.\n\nSpeech Buddies were invented by Articulate Technologies, Inc., in San Francisco, CA. Speech Buddies® and Speech Buddy™ are trademarks of Articulate Technologies, Inc. They are FDA listed medical devices.\n\n"}
{"id": "971177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=971177", "title": "Staffroom", "text": "Staffroom\n\nA staffroom, also known as a teachers' lounge outside Great Britain, is a room in a primary school, middle school, high school or college where teachers have their desk and prepare their lessons, as opposed to the faculty lounge in United States and Canadian universities and to the common room in British independent schools, where the teachers and/or school staff talk to each other, discuss work, eat, drink and socialise while not in class. In primary school, there is usually just one common room, while in middle school, high school, college and/or university, there can be multiple common rooms. Faculty lounges and common rooms may have kitchens, desks, and television sets.\n\nThe term is not used to refer to a general kitchen area, for example in an office.\n\n"}
{"id": "4946662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4946662", "title": "The Cortège", "text": "The Cortège\n\nThe Cortège (), or The Chalmers Cortège (Swedish: \"Chalmerscortègen\") is an annual carnival parade held on Walpurgis Night (30 April) by students of the Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg. The Cortège consists of around 600 students and around 50 truck carriages, each carriage depicting—in a satirical and comic way—significant events that have taken place since the previous parade. The procession makes its way through the city centre, where it is seen by around 250,000 people each year.\n\n Before the first Cortège was arranged, students at Chalmers walked the streets with one foot on the pavement and one foot in the gutter each year on 30 April, the day when Chalmers students traditionally exchange their black student caps for white caps. In 1909, the students decided to gather all the horse carriages in the city to travel the distance they usually walked. The next year, the Chalmers Students' Union decided to organize a parade of student culture jokes. In the year 1911 a committee, \"Chalmers Cortège Committé\" (CCC), was created to organize the whole procession. Ever since, except for 1912 due to exam scheduling conflicts, as well as 1940 due to World War II, CCC has arranged The Cortège.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3949326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3949326", "title": "The Student School", "text": "The Student School\n\nThe Student School, stylised THESTUDENTSCHOOL, is an alternative high school in the Toronto District School Board founded in 1979. It has approximately 160 students and generally offers 11th and 12th grade academic courses. It is in the same building as Western Technical-Commercial School and Ursula Franklin Academy.\n\nThe school is based loosely on the principles of participatory democracy. It allows students to vote on significant school policies and actions taken on by the school community in bi-weekly general assemblies. Notably, students and teachers alike receive one vote. Furthermore, students are encouraged to take an active role in community and global politics through various committees and organizations present at school.\n\nIt is well known for its support of social justice causes and boycotts. For example, it has a yearly auction that works as a fundraiser for women living in shelters over the holiday season. Also it is home to a community-run garden, a kitchen collective that provides subsidized lunches and free breakfasts to students, and a number of student-run associations.\n\nThe school has a number of unique course offerings that correspond to various standard course codes recognized by the Toronto District School Board, for example, \"a history of imperialism and protest,\" \"women and gender studies,\" or \"alternative economic models.\"\n\nThe school also has a unique absence system, where students are not penalized for absences until the fifteenth one, at which point they must appeal to a teacher council in order to receive course credit.\n\nMuch like several other alternative schools, teachers are on a first name basis with students.\n\n"}
{"id": "5273201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5273201", "title": "The Waldorf School", "text": "The Waldorf School\n\nEstablished in 1971, the Waldorf School of Lexington in Lexington, Massachusetts is a co-ed pre-K through grade 8 independent school. As of September 2015, the school serves over 230 students with 50 full- and part-time faculty and staff members.\n\nThe Waldorf School is accredited by the Association of Waldorf Schools of North America and the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. It is also a member of the Association of Independent Schools of New England.\n\nGuided by the educational philosophy of Rudolf Steiner, the Waldorf School opened in 1971 as a kindergarten and day care center with a handful of children in a Cambridge church basement. In its third year, the school's three faculty members decided to apply for membership in the Association of Waldorf Schools of North America (AWSNA). For six years the school was sponsored by the Waldorf School of Garden City, NY. By the end of the decade, the school had expanded to sixth grade and had become a full member of AWSNA.\nIn 1980, the school rented the historic Adams School building in Lexington to accommodate the growing number of students. From 1981 to 1984, enrollment increased significantly and the school purchased the Adams building from the town of Lexington in 1983. In 1982, the first eighth grade graduated.\n\nIn 1990, a formal Waldorf Parent-Teacher Association was formed, and in 1991 the Board of Trustees elected a parent as its first non-faculty president. During this year, the school was accepted into the Association of Independent Schools of New England (AISNE).\n\nDuring the 1995-96 school year, the faculty and Board developed a new long-range plan. It established a goal of founding a high school, while keeping the elementary strong. The high school started out in the basement of the Follen Church at 755 Massachusetts Avenue, with ten students in ninth grade.\n\nIn 1998, the school successfully conducted a capital campaign to purchase the historic building adjacent to the existing site. Beginning in October, the building at 703 Massachusetts Avenue was gutted and renovated to house up to 56 students on three floors. The High School moved into its new quarters in the spring of 1999, and in June 2000, the first twelfth grade graduated.\n\nIn 2002, the school was evaluated by a team from AWSNA and NEASC (New England Association of Schools and Colleges.) The school received accreditation from both organizations.\n\nIn 2003, it was decided that the high school would become a separate entity. The high school formed its own board of trustees and is now the Waldorf High School of Massachusetts Bay. The high school moved to Belmont, MA, in July 2004 to accommodate its growing enrollment.\n\nThe school's second building at 703 Massachusetts Avenue, which dates to 1828 and is the oldest brick structure in Lexington, was renovated in 2005 to house the expanded nursery and after-school programs.\n\nAs of 2016, the school offers programs for children from birth through eighth grade, including:\n- a range of parent-child programs for children from 0–3 years\n- play-based nursery and kindergarten\n- an arts-integrated academic program for grades 1–8, including 2 foreign languages\n- after-school athletics\n- after-school programs\n- summer camp\n- summer storytime\n"}
{"id": "1934521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1934521", "title": "Transactional distance", "text": "Transactional distance\n\nTransactional distance theory was developed in the 1970s by Dr. Michael G. Moore, Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Education at the Pennsylvania State University (Moore, 1980). It is the first pedagogical theory specifically derived from analysis of teaching and learning conducted through technology as opposed to the many theories developed in the classroom. It is considered by some to be one of the few, if not the only, theory in distance education that can be used to test hypotheses. It can be used to frame experiments in tutoring or other learner support activities to assess what change there is in the outcomes of student learning, often judged by student completion (Tait, 2017). Like any theory, the transactional distance model serves as a heuristic device, a means of identifying questions for research and also a very practical instrument to be used in making these difficult instructional design decisions.\n\nThe theory consists of a set of principles and a model that defines the pedagogical aspects of education (as contrasted with others such as management and policy) in three sets of variables. The first set consists of elements describing the structure of what is designed to be learned, the second in the interaction or dialog between teacher and learners when that structured program is implemented, and the third is the idiosyncrasies of each individual learner with priority given to the potential self-management or autonomy of the students who interact with teachers within the designed structure (Moore & Kearsley, 2012).\nTransactional distance theory states that when an instructional designer makes decisions, these decisions will result in a certain amount of structure, dialog and autonomy. These amounts can be either unwitting consequences of the instructional design process, or the result of conscious instructional design decisions. Regardless, these variables interact to create transactional distance which Michael G. Moore defines as “a psychological and communication space to be crossed, a space of potential misunderstanding between the inputs of instructor and those of the learner.” Thus, the utility of the theory is that it provides guidance to instructional designers as to how to design the course: e.g. how much structure, dialog, and autonomy to build into the course, so as to minimize transactional distances and thereby maximize learning outcomes.\n\nA number of researchers have used Moore’s theory as the theoretical underpinning for the development of a number of statistically valid and reliable scales to measure transactional distances. Some of these are listed below together with a brief description.\n\n\"Zhang’s Scale of Transactional Distance (2003):\" By the turn of the millennium, distance education had evolved from being synonymous with correspondence courses to being largely web-based. Aixu (Monica) Zhang built on Michael G. Moore’s theory by proposing that transactional distance could be viewed as a measure of the student’s difficulty in becoming actively engaged with their online learning environment. She defined transactional distance by four sets of variables (the Transactional Distance between Students and Students (TDSS), the Transactional Distance between Students and the Teacher (TDST), the Transactional Distance between the Student and the Content (TDSC), and the Transactional Distance between the Student and the Instructional Technology (TDSI). She found that these four sets of variables were highly and statistically correlated with Student Satisfaction, which she adopted as her surrogate measure for Transactional Distance. Her work lead to a 31 element statistically reliable and significant Scale of Transactional Distance.\n\n\"Relative Proximity Theory (Swart et al., 2013):\" Zhang’s Scale of Transactional Distance provides a numerical measure for transactional distance based on a five point Likert Scale. Such a measure assumes meaning only when compared to another similar measure such as, for example, in a statistical pre –post intervention comparison. Many studies do not lend themselves to pre-post intervention comparisons. Relative Proximity Theory borrows from gap, or needs analysis (Kaufman & Guerra, 2013) to yield the transactional distance between an actual and desired state. For example, the transactional distance between an actual class and an ideal class.\n\n\"Revised Scale of Transactional Distance (Paul et al., 2015):\" There are many changes in the educational environment that have occurred since Zhang developed her Scale of Transactional Distance: Online education is the fastest growing segment of higher education, mobile computing has become ubiquitous, MOOC’s provide an unprecedented amount of online content to learners and instructors alike. Zhang’s model was re-evaluated in light of these changes. The results provided a 12 element parsimonious version of Zhang’s scale which has excellent factorial validity and reliability, yields better fit statistics, and is easier and less time consuming to apply than the original scale.\n\n\"Coll-TD Scale (Wengrowicz et al., 2014):\" This scale builds on Michael G. Moore’s Theory of Transactional Distance to measure the transactional distances of students who are conducting research in virtual group collaborative environments. It defines Transactional Distance as composed of six sets of variables (Communication between Peers, Understanding between Peers, Communication between Peers and Instructor, Understanding between Peers and Instructor, Prior Attitude toward Collaboration, and Satisfaction). This yielded a 40 element statistically reliable and valid instrument.\n\n\"Coll-TD/F Scale (Swart et al., 2015):\" This instrument extends the Coll-TD Scale to Flipped Classrooms where collaboration takes place both f2f, during interactive group learning sessions, and outside class (virtual or f2f) during collaboration on projects or take home exams. This 46 element scale was also shown to be statistically valid and reliable. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24438588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24438588", "title": "Waldman v. Canada", "text": "Waldman v. Canada\n\nWaldman v. Canada (Communication No. 694/1996) was a case decided by the UN Human Rights Committee in 1999.\n\nUnder the Education Act of Ontario every separate school was entitled to full public funding. Separate schools were defined as Roman Catholic schools. The Education Act stated: \"1. (1) \"separate school board\" means a board that operates a school board for Roman Catholics; ... 122. (1) Every separate school shall share in the legislative grants in like manner as a public school\". As a result, Roman Catholic schools were the only religious schools entitled to the same public funding as the public secular schools. The Supreme Court of Canada confirmed the law in two cases, including Adler v. Ontario.\n\nMr. Waldman wished to provide his children with a Jewish education, and he faced therefore a financial hardship, which was not experienced by a Roman Catholic parent. He contended that the Education Act violated Articles 2, 18, 26, 27 of the Covenant.\n\nThe Committee held that \"the Covenant does not oblige States parties to fund schools which are established on a religious basis. However, if a State party chooses to provide public funding to religious schools, it should make this funding available without discrimination. This means that providing funding for the schools of one religious group and not for another must be based on reasonable and objective criteria. In the instant case, the Committee concludes that the material before it does not show that the differential treatment between the Roman Catholic faith and the author's religious denomination is based on such criteria\". Therefore, it has found violation of Article 26 (prohibition of discrimination) in the case. The Committee decided that in view of its conclusions in regard to article 26, no additional issue arises for its consideration under articles 18, 27 and 2.\n\nCommittee's member Martin Scheinin filed a concurring opinion, noting that \"Providing for publicly funded education in minority languages for those who wish to receive such education is not as such discriminatory, although care must of course be taken that possible distinctions between different minority languages are based on objective and reasonable grounds. The same rule applies in relation to religious education in minority religions. In order to avoid discrimination in funding religious (or linguistic) education for some but not all minorities States may legitimately base themselves on whether there is a constant demand for such education\".\n\nA day before \"Waldman\" decision, HRC rejected a similar complaint from several Canadians as inadmissible, pointing that \"the authors while claiming to be victims of discrimination, do not seek publicly funded religious schools for their children, but on the contrary seek the removal of the public funding to Roman Catholic separate schools. Thus, if this were to happen, the authors' personal situation in respect of funding for religious education would not be improved. The authors have not sufficiently substantiated how the public funding given to the Roman Catholic separate schools at present causes them any disadvantage\". Four HRC members, however, submitted a separate opinion, considering the case to be admissible and drawing parallel with \"Waldman v. Canada\".\n\nIn November 2005, HRC repeated that Canada should adopt steps in order to \"eliminate discrimination on the basis of religion in the funding of schools in Ontario.\" This was later published in their concluding observations about Canada on April 20, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "13432916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13432916", "title": "Yossi Dagan", "text": "Yossi Dagan\n\nYossi Dagan (Hebrew: יוסי דגן) Israeli grassroots community organizer is a leader of Homesh First, a grassroots organization dedicated to re-settling and re-building Homesh. Homesh First was formed after the homes of the Jewish residents of Homesh were razed and the Jewish community was evicted as part of Israel's disengagement in August 2005. Dagan himself was a resident of Sanur, which was also demolished and evacuated as part of the 2005 disengagement plan. He is married, and father to three small children. He lives in Shavi Shomron, a Jewish town or settlement to the west of Shechem/Nablus. He has a master's degree in Law, and is an officer in the IDF reserves. In August 2015, Dagan was elected as Head of the Shomron Regional Council, replacing Gershon Mesika, who resigned from his post following involvement in the Yisrael Beteynu scandal. He received the support of 63% of the voters in general elections that were held for the Shomron Regional Municipal government on Aug. 6, 2015.\n\nDagan was active in actions of civil disobedience as a method of protesting the Disengagement Plan. Dagan helped to organize the 2007 Yom Ha'atzmaut march to Homesh. During Sukkot of the same year, Dagan organized a pilgrimage to Homesh. Many former residents and sympathetic Israelis camped out on the grounds where Homesh houses were demolished. The Christian Science Monitor quoted Dagan as warning against the disengagement: \"You'll be creating a terror state that would threaten most of the country with Qassam [missiles].\"\n\nIn 2013, Dagan helped to spearhead a public relations campaign focused on welcoming Israelis to the West Bank. Dagan hoped to counter what he said were \"radical left-wing Israeli groups\" that promote hatred against settlements in Israel and Europe.\n\nIn January 2015, he became involved in an international incident between the U.S State Department and Israel. In January 2015, Jewish settlers at the \"Adei Ad illegal outpost\" threw stones at diplomats from a U.S. delegation who had arrived to inspect vandalism reported at a grove of Palestinian-owned trees in the occupied West Bank. It was reported that recently, settlers were suspected of uprooting thousands of olive tree saplings, some of which had been planted in honor of senior Palestinian official Ziad Abu Ein, who collapsed and died after an altercation with an Israeli soldier. The American consulate came to inspect the grove because some of the land owners claim U.S. citizenship. No injuries were reported. A U.S. State Department spokesman, Jeff Rathke, said, \"We can confirm a vehicle from the Consulate General was pelted with stones and confronted by a group of armed settlers today in the West Bank, near the Palestinian village of Turmus Ayya.\" He added that the U.S. is \"deeply concerned\" about the attack, and that the Israeli authorities recognize \"the seriousness of the incident\". A police spokeswoman said the police were investigating the incident, and no arrests had been made. The U.S. State Department has offered the Israeli authorities a videotape of the incident showing no American drew weapons. Yossi Dagan, in his role as Head of the Shomron Regional Council, urged Interior Minister Gilad Erdan to expel the American delegation, claiming they were spies.\n\nIn the end of October 2017 Yossi Dagan, Head of Shomron Regional Council lead a three week long protest outside of the Prime Minister's Residence in Jerusalem. Together with leaders of other municipalities in Judea and Samaria (West Bank) and families of victims of terror. The protesters demanded that the government approve with no delay funding to improve roads and security for the Jewish towns in the region. During the last week they declared a hunger strike. On Friday Nov. 9, the group held a press conference on site together with MK David Bitan who represented PM Netanyahu in negotiations, they announced that their demands were accepted and that the PM had signed a letter to the effect.\n\nThrough cooperation and protection of the IDF command The Shomron Regional Council organizes periodic visits and events at Joseph's Tomb in Nablus Shechem which in Area A under the full control of the Palestinian Authority. This area is normally of limits to Israeli and Jewish people. On such a visit in December 2017 the site was found vandalized, something that has occurred repeatedly under the PA. Yossi Dagan called on the government of Israel to retake and protect the Jewish holy place.\n\n"}
