{"id": "32501079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32501079", "title": "A-Lin", "text": "A-Lin\n\nA-Lin (), also known by her birth name Huang Li-ling and her Amis name Lisang Pacidal Koyouan, is an aboriginal Taiwanese pop singer, lyricist, and occasional composer of Amis descent.\n\nIn 1999, when A-Lin was 16 years old and taught children to sing the hymn “Amazing Grace” after the 921 earthquake in Nantou County, she was discovered by her former agent. However, he was not available when she wanted to give him contact information. Fortunately, four years later, A-Lin met him again in a bar where she sang regularly. She was officially offered a singing contract.\n\nA-Lin made her debut in the world of music at the end of 2006, achieving rapid commercial success. She has been called the next A-Mei, who is an aboriginal singer of Puyuma descent. She also got the nickname 天生歌姬, meaning \"A Born Diva\". A-Lin was often quoted as saying that A-Mei is highly influential to her music and often covers A-Mei's songs in music shows and concerts. A-Lin has won numerous music awards and is extremely popular within Mandarin-speaking world.\n\nA-Lin has performed internationally and at a sold-out concert with Xiao Yu and Shin in 2012 at the Sydney Town Hall. It was her first visit to Sydney and people flew in from different cities just to see her.\n\nIn 2013, with Avex Taiwan exiting the market due to overall poor sales from the records, all singers under Avex like Huang Li-ling were allowed to terminate their contracts early.\n\nAfter terminating her contract, A-Lin signed with her new label Sony Music. In December 2014, she released her first album after leaving Avex. This album was nominated for Best Mandarin Female Singer, making her fourth nomination without any win.\n\nIn 2015, she participated in the third season of I Am a Singer and came in sixth on the finale held in March 2015. As a result, her singing ability was recognized by more people and provided a boost to her career.\n\nWhile A-Lin considers herself as an Contralto, she has been noted to have an extremely wide vocal range closely identical to that of Amanda Seyfried, as noted in many of her songs to have over two octaves or more, and in the concert in Auckland, New Zealand, she was suffering from illnesses that made her unable to hit her falsetto range. She has also notably performed \"Remember\", by A-Mei, in infantile speech.\n\nA-Lin is the youngest in her family, her parents are Roman Catholics and love music.\nA-Lin's older sister is Taiwanese model Lea Huang, who herself entered the Super Star competition in Taiwan in July 2013 as an aspiring singer in her own right. In 2015, after A-Lin entered I Am A Singer, Lea became a contestant for ‘The most beautiful harmonies’ (最美和聲). They also have an older brother, and A-Lin's cousin-in-law is her fitness coach and also a guitarist. A-Lin was extremely popular as a student and the confidence she gained from this led to her decision to compete in a 'Singing Strength Elite Rivalry Competition' [歌唱實力精英角逐比賽]. She chose the hit song 'At least you are still there' [至少還有你], by Sandy Lam, and the competition allowed A-Lin to believe she had a future as a professional singer. In reference to talent shows being readily accessible to young people these days, A-Lin commented, \"I am impressed that there is now a \"Million Star\"-type of singing platform, which allows both everyone who enjoys singing and those who are talented singers a tough but realistic chance - an accomplished dream.\" They also have a brother.\n\nIn 1 July 2007, A-Lin married Huang Kan-lin, a well-known Taiwanese baseball player. They have a daughter, Huang Qiaoyu. (A-Lin said: \"At the first time Huang Kan-lin requested a song \"How Do I Live\" by LeAnn Rimes in her Tainan Pub Session. However, at that time because of his poor English, he wrote “Good Do A-Lin \" on a piece of paper and then spelled the song in homophonic Mandarin. The implication was that he wanted to chase after A-Lin because of her rich lips. Eventually, Huang Kan-lin proposed to A-Lin successfully by a new recorded song \" 愛情問怎麼走 (How Love Will Go)\".)\n\n"}
{"id": "12200474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12200474", "title": "Ancestral sin", "text": "Ancestral sin\n\nAncestral fault (Greek , ) is the doctrine that the sins of the forefathers lead to punishment of their descendants.\nIn Christian hamartiology, the concept is also known as ancestral sin ( or ).\n\nMartin West (1999) draws a distinction between inherited guilt (ancestral fault or ancestral sin in the narrow sense) and ancestral curses (in the form of genetic corruption or general \"persistent but unexplained adversity\").\n\nThe most detailed discussion of the concept is found in Proclus' \"De decem dubitationibus circa Providentiam\", a propaedeutic handbook for students at the Neoplatonic Academy in Athens. Proclus makes clear that the concept is of hallowed antiquity, and making sense of the apparent paradox is presented as a defense of ancient Greek religion. The main point made is that a city or a family is to be seen as a single living being (\"animal unum\", \"zoion hen\") more sacred than any individual human life.\n\nThe doctrine of ancestral fault is similarly presented as a tradition of immemorial antiquity in ancient Greek religion by Celsus in his \"True Doctrine\", a polemic against Christianity. Celsus is quoted as attributing to \"a priest of Apollo or of Zeus\" the saying that \"the mills of the gods grind slowly, even to children's children, and to those who are born after them\". The idea of divine justice taking the form of collective punishment is also ubiquitous in the Hebrew Bible, e.g. the Ten Plagues of Egypt, the destruction of Shechem, etc. and most notably the recurring punishments inflicted on the Israelites for lapsing from Yahwism.\n\nThe formalized Christian doctrine of original sin is a direct extension of the concept of ancestral sin (imagined as inflicted on a number of succeeding generations), arguing that the sin of Adam and Eve is inflicted on all their descendents indefinitely, i.e. on the entire human race. \nIt was first developed in the 2nd century by Irenaeus, the Bishop of Lyons, in his struggle against Gnosticism. Irenaeus contrasted their doctrine with the view that the Fall was a step in the wrong direction by Adam, with whom, Irenaeus believed, his descendants had some solidarity or identity.\n\nAncestral sin is the object of a Christian doctrine taught by the Orthodox Church as well as other Eastern Christians. Some identify it as \"inclination towards sin, a heritage from the sin of our progenitors\". But most distinguish it from this tendency that remains even in baptized persons, since ancestral sin \"is removed through baptism\".\n\nSt. Gregory Palamas taught that, as a result of ancestral sin (called \"original sin\" in the West), man's image was tarnished, disfigured, as a consequence of Adam's disobedience.\nThe Greek theologian John Karmiris writes that \"the sin of the first man, together with all of its consequences and penalties, is transferred by means of natural heredity to the entire human race. Since every human being is a descendant of the first man, 'no one of us is free from the spot of sin, even if he should manage to live a completely sinless day'. ... Original Sin not only constitutes 'an accident' of the soul; but its results, together with its penalties, are transplanted by natural heredity to the generations to come ... And thus, from the one historical event of the first sin of the first-born man, came the present situation of sin being imparted, together with all of the consequences thereof, to all natural descendants of Adam.\"\n\nThe \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", the Greek translation of which uses \"προπατορική αμαρτία\" (literally, \"ancestral sin\") where the Latin text has \"peccatum originale\", states: \"Original sin is called 'sin' only in an analogical sense: it is a sin 'contracted' and not 'committed' – a state and not an act. Although it is proper to each individual, original sin does not have the character of a personal fault in any of Adam's descendants.\" Eastern Orthodox teaching likewise says: \"It can be said that while we have not inherited the guilt of Adam's personal sin, because his sin is also of a generic nature, and because the entire human race is possessed of an essential, ontological unity, we participate in it by virtue of our participation in the human race. 'The imparting of Original Sin by means of natural heredity should be understood in terms of the unity of the entire human nature, and of the \"homoousiotitos\" of all men, who, connected by nature, constitute one mystic whole. Inasmuch as human nature is indeed unique and unbreakable, the imparting of sin from the first-born to the entire human race descended from him is rendered explicable: \"Explicitly, as from the root, the sickness proceeded to the rest of the tree, Adam being the root who had suffered corruption\" (St. Cyril of Alexandria).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56695079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56695079", "title": "Ancient Egyptian afterlife beliefs", "text": "Ancient Egyptian afterlife beliefs\n\nAncient Egyptian afterlife beliefs were centered around a variety of complex rituals, that were influenced by many aspects of Egyptian culture. Religion was a major contributor, since it was an important social practice that bound all Egyptians together. For instance, many of the Egyptian gods played roles in guiding the souls of the dead through the afterlife. With the evolution of writing, religious ideals were recorded and quickly spread throughout the Egyptian community. The solidification and commencement of these doctrines were formed in the creation of afterlife texts which illustrated and explained what the dead would needed to know in order to complete the journey safely.\n\nEgyptian religious doctrines included three basic afterlife ideologies; belief in an underworld, eternal life, and rebirth of the soul. The underworld, also known as the Duat had only one entrance that could be reached by traveling through the tomb of the deceased. The initial image a soul would be presented with upon entering this realm was a corridor lined with an array of fascinating statues, including a variation of the famous hawk headed god, Horus. It must also be noted that the path taken to the underworld may have varied between kings and common people. After entry, spirits were presented to another prominent god, Osiris. Osiris would determine the virtue of the deceased's soul and grant those deemed deserving a peaceful afterlife. The Egyptian concept of 'eternal life' was often seen as being reborn indefinitely. Therefore, the souls who had lived their life elegantly and were guided to Osiris to be born again.\n\nIn order to achieve the ideal afterlife, many practices must be performed during one's life. This may have included acting justly and following the beliefs of Egyptian creed. Additionally, the Egyptians stressed the rituals completed after an individual's life has ended. In other words, it was the responsibility of the living to carry out the final traditions required so the dead could promptly meet their final fate. Ultimately, maintaining high religious morals by both the living and the dead, as well as complying to a variety of traditions guaranteed the deceased a smoother transition into the underworld.\n\nThere were many challenges the dead had to face before they were able to enter into the final stages of the afterlife. However, through the support of the living, the dead had access to the protection and knowledge they would need to be reborn in the netherworld.\n\nThe design and scale of Egyptian burial tombs varied from period to period, even though their function remained the same. While most tombs were built during the lifetime of the person it was meant for, Egyptian tombs were constructed to house the body of the dead, but also functioned to transmit the soul to the underworld. Most of the what was found in a tomb depended on the status of the person buried within it. However, in order to assist the dead, most tombs were decorated with afterlife texts meant to help guide the deceased's soul to the afterlife, something that was attainable to all.\n\nThroughout the centuries, the Egyptian people decorated their tombs and coffins with religious spells and texts hoping to help the dead in the afterlife. As Egyptian culture developed these texts, too, evolved, becoming more complex and extensive in nature.\n\nThe Pyramid Texts were the first religious spells to be carved into the walls of royal ancient Egyptian pyramids. Beginning in the Old Kingdom period, these texts were used exclusively by the Egyptian pharaohs to decorate the walls of their tombs. However, Egyptian Queens and high-ranking government officials soon began to use Pyramid Texts in their burial tombs as well. The purpose of these texts were to help the pharaoh successfully complete his journey through the afterlife, by conveying knowledge to the deceased about the paths he should take and the dangers he might face along the way.\n\nIn the Middle Kingdom period the Pyramid texts were replaced by the Coffin Texts. The Coffin Texts were spells that were inscribed into the coffins of the dead. They were meant to protect the deceased in the afterlife and provide them with the transformation magic they would need along their journey. These Coffin Texts were generally more attainable, providing the common people of Egypt the opportunity to attain a proper afterlife. It is also important to note that the collection of Coffin Texts known as The Book of Two Ways functioned as the earliest manual to the afterlife.\n\nThe Book of the Dead was an extensive collection of spells that included material from both the Pyramid Texts and the Coffin Texts. In the New Kingdom period, papyrus was normally what the Book of the Dead was recorded on. However, it could also be found on the tomb walls, coffins and the wrappings of mummies. Like the Coffin Texts, the spells illustrated within the Book of the Dead were used by everyone. These spells offered advice, protection and knowledge to the dead as they journeyed through the netherworld.\n\nThe Books of the Netherworld contained multiple texts that provided the deceased with a description of the underworld and served as a guide to help the dead during their final journey. Since the deceased were often seen replicating the rebirth cycle of Ra as they traveled through the afterlife, these texts primarily focused on the second half of the sun god's journey, which took him through the underworld at night. The earlier Books of the Netherworld, which include the Amduat and the Book of Gates, divided their narratives into twelve parts, symbolizing the twelve hours the sun god spent in the underworld. Later books such as the Book of Caverns and the Book of the Earth used a more sectionalized approach when presenting their narratives. All of these books also contained complex illustrations of the netherworld, which could often be seen etched in to coffins and the walls of burial tombs.\n\nThe Books of Sky consisted of three afterlife texts titled, the Book of Nut, the Book of Day and the Book of Night. Carved into the ceiling of tombs these texts emphasized the role the goddess Nut played in the Egyptian Afterlife.\n\nCoffins in Egyptian culture date back to the Old Kingdom. During this era, coffins were relatively simple; they were equilateral makings with minor details. These included three openings, one that the Ka was intended to pass through and two that represented eyes. However, as time passed coffins and their structures evolved. By the New Kingdom, coffins had not only become more popular around the area, but were distributed for sale. The deceased's body was now represented by the coffin as it held a shape and was decorated with features that resembled the individual inside it. The deceased were also often depicted in white clothes, because it represented the soul's purity after it had passed through judgement, in the Hall of Maat. Additionally, the orientation of the deceased was very important to ancient Egyptians. In early periods, the body would have laid promptly on their side with their head directed to the south. This later shifted and with the body flat on its back, the north became a more favorable position for the dead's head to lie.\n\nMummification was a practice that the Ancient Egyptians adopted because they believed that the body needed to be preserved in order for the dead to be reborn in the afterlife. Initially, Egyptians thought that like Ra, their physical bodies or Khat, would reawaken after they completed their journey through the underworld. Once the Egyptians realized that the bodies of their dead would eventually decay, they started to see the remains of the dead as a vassal for the deceased's spirit. The body was dismembered and wrapped in bandages to safeguard it, if the soul decided to return.\n\nTo many Egyptians the tomb was seen as a home for the dead, so it was customary to leave offerings near the body of the deceased. Egyptians believed that even after one's death their spirit would live because their life force was a separate entity that could detach itself from the body. This life force was called the Ka, and was consider to be one part of what the Egyptian believed to be the immortal soul. The Ba was another part of the soul that had increased mobility and dwelled within the Ka. Offerings that were left for the dead included clothing and valuable ornaments. However, the most important offering was food, because even though the Ka was separated from the body it could still starve.\n\nAncient Egyptians theorized the passage to the afterlife in a series of stages. The first phase was believed to encompass the vehicle of transportation, which would eventually direct their departed souls to immortality. Individuals were subjected to a multitude of passages; but the choice of route was not theirs, it was dependent on their status. The aspect that was most universally influential in determining what passage was taken was one's position among their leaders. Despite the differences between voyagers, beliefs concerning the afterlife are astronomically reliant on religious ideologies. For example, early people often used religion to understand and comprehend, as well as relate to natural occurrences since science had not yet defined everyday incidents. To demonstrate, there was no justification for the sun's orbit, so religious myths redefined and answered the questions prehistoric people had. Yet, since natural incidences were explained by religious beliefs, other realms of creed mimicked the natural patterns of life. For instance, the general ideology associated with the path to the underworld was believed that as night overshadowed the land, the deceased would begin their journey. And with the rising of the sun, a new day was not only thought to have begun, but a new life as well.\n\nBoat passages to the underworld were strictly reserved for pharaohs who had died. The Egyptian sun god, Ra, was believed to travel to the underworld by boat as the sun set. As a way to mimic Ra's daily expedition, the ancient people of Egypt would construct model boats, ranging in many sizes in which they would bury alongside their Pharaohs. For example, next to the Pyramid of Khufu, researchers uncovered a boat the size of traditional ships, which displayed not only the extreme devotion Egyptians had for their leader, but their dedication to obtaining eternity for all. In other words, a great deal of the requirements for the deceased to properly reach the underworld rested on the living. In order for Pharaohs to arrive at their final destination, his people had to construct a variety of boats to ensure his departure. As a result, communities had to come together to support each other, otherwise their perspective of immortality, as well as their beliefs would end indefinitely. Therefore, commitment to helping others achieve eternity was a vital component to Egyptian culture, as demonstrated by the gallant boats buried with their rulers.\n\nAdditionally, an alternate vehicle for entrance to the underworld was the coffin. While king's often used coffins in addition to, or in substitution of the boat belief, everyday citizens had less choice. Therefore, this method was more universal while alluding to a different, more ‘frequent’ path of entry. To compare, while passages by boat directed the deceased to the sun god, Ra, coffins were thought to guide individuals to the sky goddess, Nut. Each coffin was uniquely attributed to the person who rested in it. In other words, every coffin was subject to a variety of interpretations, all of which were intended to promote the deceased in obtaining eternity.\n\nHowever, not all who died were presented with the opportunity to travel to the underworld. Since the living were obligated to ensure that the deceased could travel to the afterlife, it was also in their control to eliminate one's chance in achieving eternity. Therefore, the living had an array of options that prevented a second life to an unworthy individual who had passed away. The most famous included decapitation, which when executed, “killed a person twice.” As a result, the second death associated with decapitation was also assumed to have annihilated the chance at another life. As noted in Egyptian texts, this instance was incredibly feared, but happened most often to those who rebelled or disobeyed the king.\n\nTo the Ancient Egyptians, the judgement of the dead was the process that allowed the Egyptian gods to judge the worthiness of the souls of the deceased. Deeply rooted in the Egyptian belief of immortality, judgement was one of the most important parts of the journey through the afterlife. As such, many variations of judgement scenes appear in the Egyptian Afterlife Texts. Each soul that entered the afterlife was handled individually during judgement. Once the deceased finished their journey through the underworld, they arrived at the Hall of Maat. Here their purity would be the determining factor in whether they would be allowed to enter the Kingdom of Osiris.\n\nThe deceased's first task was to correctly address each of the forty-two judges, by name, while reciting the sins they did not commit during their lifetime. This process allowed the dead to demonstrate that they knew each of the judges’ names or Ren and established that they were pure, and free of sin. After confirming that they were sinless, the deceased was presented with the balance that was used to weight their heart against the feather of Maat. Anubis was the god often seen administering this test. If the deceased's heart balanced with the feather of Maat, Thoth would record the result and they would be presented to Osiris, who admitted them into the Sekhet-Aaru. However, if their heart was heavier than the feather, it was to be devoured by the Goddess Ammit, permanently destroying the soul of the deceased.\n\nThere were numerous ways for Egyptians to secure their fate. Many of the actions Egyptian people took after death were to influence the god's decision in allowing for another life. For example, scholars have concluded that ancient Egyptian women were forced to redefine their gender by encompassing more masculine features. Osiris, who was the ultimate ruler of the underworld, was applauded for his incredible superiority as a result of his virility. Additionally, the overall theme associated with gods connected their male attributes to resurrection, and goddesses were much more vigilant. This ideology was conspired from original doctrines, which denoted the overall creator a male. Statues and other forms of display made significant notice of their creator's masculine qualities, more specifically pointing out his erect penis. Therefore, to appease their god's preferences women's tombs and coffins displayed male qualities. Examples of male modifications included name combinations, in which women engraved “Osiris” before their own name on their coffins. This demonstrated the collaboration of women and a god who was capable of rebirth, because alone her sex restricted her. These displays of gender transformation are just one of many ways that people of today are able to identify the idea of rebirth after death in Egyptian practices.\n\nAfter judgement, entities were thought to return to the Mother Goddess' womb. During this stage, the soul meets its former body that is restored. To demonstrate, in the Book of Dead there is a series of lines that read as follows, \"I unite your limbs, I hold your discharges together, I surround your flesh, I drive away the fluids of your decay, I sweep away your b3w, I wipe away your tears, I heal all your limbs, each being united with the other; I surround you with the work of the weaving goddess, I complete you and form you as Re.\" The belief continues as the nude being approaches the Goddess and enters her womb as her son. To compare, this dogma is deeply related to the birth of the sun god Ra, who enters the goddess's womb every night, and is reborn as the sun rises. Ra's relation to the afterlife is very connected through the religious components that justify the rising and setting of the sun.\n\nUltimately, the immortality desired by ancient Egyptians was reflected in endless lives. By doing worthy deeds in their current life, they would be granted a second life for all of eternity.\n\nSekhet-Aaru, or commonly recognized as the \"Field of Reeds,” was the final destination for all souls who had been granted rebirth. This ideology evolved in the Fifth Dynasty. Sekhet-Aaru was essentially thought to be paradise and encompassed this visualization. To further elaborate, the Field of Reeds were visualized as a very lush region, filled with waterfalls among other natural wonders. Egyptian images, such as Papyrus of Nebseni, depicted the land to be divided into numerous sections. Each division was imagined to resemble island structures, in which travel by boat is necessary.\n\nThose who were granted access to the Field of Reeds included both gods and righteous souls. The fertility of the land was greatly emphasized as this possessed two of the major rewards in obtaining immortality: access to the Nile, and the ability to farm foods. As a result, the deceased ate and drank the same delicacies devoured by their gods. In turn, this promoted the belief that by obtaining immortality, individuals also accumulated aspects that resembled gods. Additionally, a third notable honor of residing in Sekhet-Aaru was the means of communication. The deceased were able to convey thoughts to one another, the gods, and those they had previously lost.\n"}
{"id": "12687474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12687474", "title": "Anna S. Hall", "text": "Anna S. Hall\n\nAnna S. Hall (died 1924) was a leading figure in the movement to legalize euthanasia in the United States during the first decade of the twentieth century. Miss Hall was the daughter and heir of noted Arctic explorer Charles Francis Hall. Her letter-writing campaign attracted such prominent women as New York Times columnist Lurana Shelton and Co-Founder of Volunteers of America and former Salvation Army officer Maud Ballington Booth to the euthanasia cause. As a result of her efforts, the Ohio state legislature came within 54 votes of legalizing the practice in 1906.\n\n"}
{"id": "24339111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24339111", "title": "Arabian oryx reintroduction", "text": "Arabian oryx reintroduction\n\nThe Arabian oryx (\"Oryx leucoryx\"), also called the white oryx, was extinct in the wild as of 1972, but was reintroduced to the wild starting in 1982. Initial reintroduction was primarily from two herds: the \"World Herd\" originally started at the Phoenix Zoo in 1963 from only nine oryx and the Saudi Arabian herd started in 1986 from private collections and some \"World Herd\" stock by the Saudi National Wildlife Research Center (NWRC). As of 2009 there have been reintroductions in Oman, Saudi Arabia, Israel, the United Arab Emirates, and Jordan, and as of 2013 the IUCN Red List classifies the species as vulnerable.<ref name=\"redlist/oryx/details\"></ref>\n\nThe Arabian oryx was known to be in decline since the early 1900s in the Arabian Peninsula. By the 1930 there were two separate populations isolated from each other. In 1960, Lee Talbot reported that Arabian oryx appeared to be extinct in its former range along the southern edge of Ar-Rub' al-Khali. He believed that any oryx still existing would be exterminated within the next few years and recommended that a captive breeding program be started to save the species.<ref name=\"lee/talbot\">Talbot, Lee: \"A Look at Threatened Species\". Fauna and Flora Preservation Society, 1960.</ref> Michael Crouch, then Assistant Adviser in the Eastern Aden Protectorate, drew attention to the fact that each spring, small groups of oryx still emerged onto the gravel plains in the northeast corner of the Protectorate, where he thought a capture attempt would be possible.\n\nOperation Oryx was a program of the Phoenix Zoo and the Fauna and Flora Preservation Society of London (now Fauna and Flora International), with financial help from the World Wide Fund for Nature. One of the first captive breeding programs at any zoo, this program had the specific goal of saving and then reintroducing Arabian oryx in the wild.\n\nThe initial plan of the Fauna and Flora Preservation Society was to establish a herd in Kenya where another species of oryx already lived and flourished. The Kenyan plan was dropped because of an outbreak of hoof-and-mouth disease, and the oryx destined for Kenya were shipped to the Phoenix Zoo instead.\n\nThere were originally four individuals captured and seven donated for this project. The four were captured in Aden (now Yemen) near the border of Oman by an expedition led by the late Major Ian Grimwood, then chief game warden of Kenya, with help from Manahil and Mahra tribesmen. One male from this group later died of capture stress. The seven donated oryx were: one from the London Zoo, two from Sheikh Jaber Abdullah al-Sabah, and two pairs from the collection of King Saud bin Abdul Aziz. One of the oryx from Sheikh Jaber Abdullah al-Sabah died before delivery as well, leaving nine oryx to start the \"World Herd.\"\n\nFive Arabian oryx were delivered to the Phoenix Zoo in 1963 (four in June and one in September). A baby was born to the herd in October 1963 from a conception en route, and another was born in the spring of 1964, bringing the starting population of the Phoenix Zoo herd to seven. The four oryx donated by King Saud arrived at the Phoenix Zoo in July 1964, bringing the population of the \"World Herd\" to 11.<ref name=\"colin/tudge\"></ref>\n\nThe breeding program at the Phoenix Zoo was very successful, and the zoo celebrated its 225th Arabian oryx birth in 2002. From Phoenix, individuals were sent to other zoos and parks (including the San Diego Wild Animal Park) to start their herds. Most of the Arabian oryx in the wild today have ancestors from the Phoenix Zoo.\n\nReintroductions started in 1982 in Oman. As of 2009 there have been reintroductions in Oman, Saudi Arabia, Israel, the United Arab Emirates, and Jordan. At this time, populations in the United Arab Emirates and Jordan are still not considered in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List wild oryx count. The population in Oman is still receiving supplementary forage, and the introduction into Jordan was after the last update of the Red List.\n\nBy 1980 the number of Arabian oryx in captivity had increased to the point that reintroduction to Oman was attempted from the San Diego Wild Animal Park to Jaaluni in the Jiddat al-Harasis. The oryx were initially kept in large pens outdoors, but were released to the wild on January 31, 1982 in the Omani Central Desert and Coastal Hills.\n\nThese oryx became the core of the Oman herd in the wild, though there were several other releases of captive bred animals over the next two decades. The area of their release became the Arabian Oryx Sanctuary.\n\nOn June 28, 2007, Oman's Arabian Oryx Sanctuary was the first site to be removed from the UNESCO World Heritage List. UNESCO cited the Omani government's decision to open 90% of the site to oil prospecting as the main reason for this decision. The Arabian oryx population on the site has been reduced from 450 oryx in 1996 to only 65 in 2007, mostly due to poaching and illegal live capture. There are now fewer than four breeding pairs left on the site.\n\nOrganized captive breeding of the Arabian oryx in Saudi Arabia began in April 1986, when 57 oryx from the farm of the late King Khalid bin Abdul Aziz in Ath-Thumamah (now the King Khalid Wildlife Research Center or KKWRC) were brought to the National Wildlife Research Center (NWRC) near At-Ta'if.<ref name=\"captive/breeding/saudi\"></ref>\n\nBetween the initial 1986 founding and 1996, 33 additional oryx (including some from the \"World Herd\") have been introduced to the founder generation of Arabian oryx at the NWRC. Since 1996, all additions to the population have been through births.\n\nDue to an outbreak of \"Mycobacterium bovis\" (bovine tuberculosis) in the founder generation, a \"buffer generation\" was introduced in the herd. Since then, calves produced by the founder herd are removed from their dam immediately after birth and hand-reared. These hand-reared second generation oryx are regularly tested for tuberculosis and a variety of other pathogenic agents, and join the breeding nucleus only when tests are consecutively negative. After breeding, they produce the third generation of oryx, which are tuberculosis free and mother-reared, and of which more than 80% are reintroduced into the wild.\n\nReintroduction of a wild population began in 1995 in the 'Uruq Bani Ma'arid Protected Area. The reserve covers about at the western edge of the Rubʿ al-Khali desert or \"Empty Quarter\". As of 2009, the IUCN Red List estimates the oryx population on this reserve at 160 individuals.\n\nA free ranging herd was established in the newly created Mahazat as-Sayd Protected Area in 1989. This fenced reserve is home to reintroduced oryx, gazelle and the houbara bustard.<ref name=\"arabian/oryx/project/regional\"></ref> As of 2009, the IUCN Red List estimates the oryx population on this reserve at about 800 individuals. There is currently some debate about whether animals in this reserve should be considered \"wild.\"\n\nIn Israel the reintroduction program was established in 1978 when four pairs of Arabian oryx were purchased. At this time the IUCN Redbook reported wild populations totaling 90-100 animals in 3 locations in Northern Arava and the Negev Desert. As of 2014 there are there are around 130 animals in the Aravah, and in 2013 they began to spread to the central Negev and the population keeps increasing. In addition to the natural population increase, every year around six animals are released to the wild in Israel. Israel is the only country in which the Arabian oryx was reintroduced where poaching prohibition can be enforced, and because of this the Israeli population grows annually. Apart from the wild oryx population in Israel, there are few dozen oryx in the Yotvata Hai-Bar Nature Reserve, a few breeding couples in the Jerusalem Biblical Zoo and a small herd in the Ramat Gan Safari. The reintroduction of oryx in Israel is one of a few successful programs reintroducing animals into nature in Israel; others include the introduction of the Persian onager (a proxy for the extinct Syrian onager), and the very successful reintroduction of Persian fallow deer.\n\nIn the early 1960s, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan directed the capture of two breeding pairs of the Arabian oryx for the nucleus of a captive-breeding program in Al Ain. In 2007 the United Arab Emirates started releasing animals into Umm Al Zumul. As of 2009 there have been about 100 animals released.\n\nAs part of this initiative, a similar program is being developed to reintroduce this extinct species into its natural habitats in Yemen and Iraq.\n\nSince March 1999, Abu Dhabi has been host to an inter-governmental body known as The Coordinating Committee for the Conservation of the Arabian Oryx, which oversees the coordination of conservation efforts for this species within the Arabian Peninsula.\nIn 2012, GSCAO carried out an Arabian Oryx Disease Survey which was funded by the Environment Agency – Abu Dhabi (EAD), in the range states.\n\nThe reintroduction project for Jordan began when the Environment Agency - Abu Dhabi (EAD) and the Al Aqaba Special Economic Zone Authority signed a sponsorship agreement in April 2007. Under this agreement, EAD is sponsoring the million three-year project which includes reintroduction of the Arabian oryx into the Wadi Rum Protected Area, rehabilitating the habitat, and helping local residents to improve their living standards.\n\nTwenty oryx (12 males and 8 females) were released into the Wadi Rum Protected Area in July 2009.\n\nIn 1986, as a result of the reintroduction efforts, the IUCN re-listed the Arabian oryx from extinct in the wild to endangered. By 2009, the Arabian oryx was protected by law in all areas where it appears.\n\nIn June 2011, the Arabian oryx was re-listed as vulnerable by the IUCN Red List. The IUCN estimates there are more than 1000 Arabian oryx in the wild, with 6000-7000 held in captivity worldwide in zoos, preserves, and private collections. Some of these are in large fenced enclosures (free-roaming), including those in Syria (Al Talila), Bahrain, Qatar, and UAE. This is the first time the IUCN has re-classified a species as vulnerable after it had been listed as extinct in the wild. The Arabian oryx is also listed in CITES Appendix I.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44421184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44421184", "title": "Azzopardi phenomenon", "text": "Azzopardi phenomenon\n\nThe Azzopardi phenomenon, or Azzopardi effect, is the presence of DNA in necrotic venules. It can occur in small cell carcinomas and in some high-grade malignant neoplasms. The effect is well known in diagnostic surgical pathology. The phenomenon is named after the pathologist, John G. Azzopardi. \n\nAzzopardi was able to correctly characterize the effect as due to DNA; it had been thought previously but incorrectly to be calcium. Necrosis results in the release of cellular DNA, which adheres in patches to the walls of blood vessels, showing as intensely basophilic material on hematoxylin-eosin stain. \n\nThe Azzopardi phenomenon is distinguished from the similar basophilic hematoxylin body.(add refs)\n\n"}
{"id": "1591693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591693", "title": "Basilideans", "text": "Basilideans\n\nThe Basilidians or Basilideans were a Gnostic sect founded by Basilides of Alexandria in the 2nd century. Basilides claimed to have been taught his doctrines by Glaucus, a disciple of St. Peter.\n\nOf the customs of the Basilidians, we know no more than that Basilides enjoined on his followers, like Pythagoras, a silence of five years; that they kept the anniversary of the day of the baptism of Jesus as a feast day and spent the eve of it in reading; that their master told them not to scruple eating things offered to idols. The sect had three grades – material, intellectual and spiritual – and possessed two allegorical statues, male and female. The sect's doctrines were often similar to those of the Ophites and later Jewish Kabbalism.\n\nBasilidianism survived until the end of the 4th century as Epiphanius knew of Basilidians living in the Nile Delta. It was however almost exclusively limited to Egypt, though according to Sulpicius Severus it seems to have found an entrance into Spain through a certain Mark from Memphis. St. Jerome states that the Priscillianists were infected with it.\n\nThe descriptions of the Basilidian system given by our chief informants, Irenaeus (\"Adversus Haereses\") and Hippolytus (\"Philosophumena\"), are so strongly divergent that they seem to many quite irreconcilable. According to Hippolytus, Basilides was apparently a pantheistic evolutionist; and according to Irenaeus, a dualist and an emanationist. Historians such as Philip Shaff have the opinion that \"Irenaeus described a form of Basilidianism which was not the original, but a later corruption of the system. On the other hand, Clement of Alexandria surely, and Hippolytus, in the fuller account of his Philosophumena, probably drew their knowledge of the system directly from Basilides' own work, the Exegetica, and hence represent the form of doctrine taught by Basilides himself\".\n\nThe fundamental theme of the Basilidian system is the question concerning the origin of evil and how to overcome it. A cosmographical feature common to many forms of Gnosticism is the idea that the \"Logos Spermatikos\" is scattered into the sensible cosmos, where it is the duty of the Gnostics, by whatever means, to recollect these scattered seed-members of the Logos and return them to their proper places (cf. the \"Gospel of Eve\"). \"Their whole system,\" says Clement, \"is a confusion of the \"Panspermia\" (All-seed) with the \"Phylokrinesis\" (Difference-in-kind) and the return of things thus confused to their own places.\"\n\nAccording to Hippolytus, Basilides asserted the beginning of all things to have been pure nothing. He uses every device of language to express absolute nonentity. Nothing then being in existence, \"not-being God\" willed to make a not-being world out of not-being things. This not-being world was only \"a single seed containing within itself all the \"seed-mass\" of the world,\" as the mustard seed contains the branches and leaves of the tree. Within this seed-mass were three parts, or sonships, and were consubstantial with the not-being God. This was the one origin of all future growths; these future growths did not use pre-existing matter, but rather these future growths came into being out of nothing by the voice of the not-being God.\n\nPart subtle of substance. The first part of the seed-mass burst through and ascended to the not-being God.\n\nPart coarse of substance. The second part of the seed-mass to burst forth could not mount up of itself, but it took to itself as a wing of the Holy Spirit, each bearing up the other with mutual benefit. But when it came near the place of the first part of the seed-mass and the not-being God, it could take the Holy Spirit no further, it not being consubstantial with the Holy Spirit. There the Holy Spirit remained, as a firmament dividing things above the world from the world itself below.\n\nPart needing purification. From the third part of the seed-mass burst forth into being the Great Archon, \"the head of the world, a beauty and greatness and power that cannot be uttered.\" He too ascended until he reached the firmament which he supposed to be the upward end of all things. There he \"made to himself and begat out of the things below a son far better and wiser than himself\". Then he became wiser and every way better than all other cosmical things except the seed-mass left below. Smitten with wonder at his son's beauty, he set him at his right hand. \"This is what they call the Ogdoad, where the Great Archon is sitting.\" Then all the heavenly or ethereal creation, as far down as the moon, was made by the Great Archon, inspired by his wiser son.\n\nAnother Archon arose out of the seed-mass, inferior to the first Archon, but superior to all else below except the seed-mass; and he likewise made to himself a son wiser than himself, and became the creator and governor of the aerial world. This region is called the Hebdomad. On the other hand, all these events occurred according to the plan of the not-being God.\n\nThe Basilidians believed in a very different Gospel to that of orthodox Christians. Hippolytus summed up the Basilidians' Gospel by saying: \"According to them the Gospel is the knowledge of things above the world, which knowledge the Great Archon understood not: when then it was shewn to him that there exists the Holy Spirit, and the [three parts of the seed-mass] and a God Who is the author of all these things, even the not-being One, he rejoiced at what was told him, and was exceeding glad: this is according to them the Gospel.\"\n\nThat is, the Basilidians believed from Adam until Moses the Great Archon supposed himself to be God alone, and to have nothing above him. But it was thought to enlighten the Great Archon that there were beings above him, so through the Holy Spirit the Gospel was conveyed to the Great Archon. First, the son of the Great Archon received the Gospel, and he in turn instructed the Great Archon himself, by whose side he was sitting. Then the Great Archon learned that he was not God of the universe, but had above him yet higher beings; and confessed his sin in having magnified himself. From him the Gospel had next to pass to the Archon of the Hebdomad. The son of the Great Archon delivered the Gospel to the son of the Archon of the Hebdomad. The son of the Archon of the Hebdomad became enlightened, and declared the Gospel to the Archon of the Hebdomad, and he too feared and confessed.\n\nIt remained only that the world should be enlightened. The light came down from the Archon of the Hebdomad upon Jesus both at the Annunciation and at the Baptism so that He \"was enlightened, being kindled in union with the light that shone on Him\". Therefore, by following Jesus, the world is purified and becomes most subtle, so that it can ascend by itself. When every part of the sonship has arrived above the Limitary Spirit, \"then the creation shall find mercy, for till now it groans and is tormented and awaits the revelation of the sons of God, that all the men of the sonship may ascend from hence\". When this has come to pass, God will bring upon the whole world the Great Ignorance, that everything may like being the way it is, and that nothing may desire anything contrary to its nature. \"And in this wise shall be the Restoration, all things according to nature having been founded in the seed of the universe in the beginning, and being restored at their due seasons.\"\n\nAs for Jesus, other than a different account of the Nativity, the Basilidians believed in the events of Jesus' life as they are described in the Gospels. They believed the crucifixion was necessary, because by the destruction of Jesus' body the world could be restored. \n\nAccording to Clement of Alexandria, the Basilidians taught faith was a natural gift of understanding bestowed upon the soul before its union with the body and which some possessed and others did not. This gift is a latent force which only manifests its energy through the coming of the Saviour.\n\nSin was not the results of the abuse of free will, but merely the outcome of an inborn evil principle. All suffering is punishment for sin; even when a child suffers, this is the punishment of the inborn evil principle. The persecutions Christians underwent had therefore as sole object the punishment of their sin. All human nature was thus vitiated by the sinful; when hard pressed Basilides would call even Christ a sinful man, for God alone was righteous. Clement accuses Basilides of a deification of the Devil, and regards as his two dogmas that of the Devil and that of the transmigration of souls.\n\nIn briefly sketching this version of Basilidianism, which most likely rests on later or corrupt accounts, our authorities are fundamentally two, Irenaeus and the lost early treatise of Hippolytus; both having much in common, and both being interwoven together in the report of Epiphanius. The other relics of the Hippolytean Compendium are the accounts of Philaster (32), and the supplement to Tertullian (4).\n\nAt the head of this theology stood the Unbegotten, the Only Father. From Him was born or put forth Nûs, and from Nûs Logos, from Logos Phronesis, from Phronesis Sophia and Dynamis, from Sophia and Dynamis principalities, powers, and angels. This first set of angels first made the first heaven, and then gave birth to a second set of angels who made a second heaven, and so on till 365 heavens had been made by 365 generations of angels, each heaven being apparently ruled by an Archon to whom a name was given, and these names being used in magic arts. The angels of the lowest or visible heaven made the earth and man. They were the authors of the prophecies; and the Law in particular was given by their Archon, the God of the Jews. He being more petulant and wilful than the other angels (ἰταμώτερον καὶ αὐθαδέστερον), in his desire to secure empire for his people, provoked the rebellion of the other angels and their respective peoples.\n\nThen the Unbegotten and Innominable Father, seeing what discord prevailed among men and among angels, and how the Jews were perishing, sent His Firstborn Nûs, Who is Christ, to deliver those Who believed on Him from the power of the makers of the world. \"He,\" the Basilidians said, \"is our salvation, even He Who came and revealed to us alone this truth.\" He accordingly appeared on earth and performed mighty works; but His appearance was only in outward show, and He did not really take flesh. It was Simon of Cyrene that was crucified; for Jesus exchanged forms with him on the way, and then, standing unseen opposite in Simon's form, mocked those who did the deed (this is starkly contradicted by Hippolytus' view of the Basilidians). But He Himself ascended into heaven, passing through all the powers, till He was restored to the presence of His own Father.\n\nThe two fullest accounts, those of Irenaeus and Epiphanius, add by way of appendix another particular of the antecedent mythology; a short notice on the same subject being likewise inserted parenthetically by Hippolytus. The supreme power and source of being above all principalities and powers and angels (such is evidently the reference of Epiphanius's αὐτῶν: Irenaeus substitutes \"heavens,\" which in this connexion comes to much the same thing) is Abrasax, the Greek letters of whose name added together as numerals make up 365, the number of the heavens; whence, they apparently said, the year has 365 days, and the human body 365 members. This supreme Power they called \"the Cause\" and \"the First Archetype,\" while they treated as a last or weakest product this present world as the work of the last Archon. It is evident from these particulars that Abrasax was the name of the first of the 365 Archons, and accordingly stood below Sophia and Dynamis and their progenitors; but his position is not expressly stated, so that the writer of the supplement to Tertullian had some excuse for confusing him with \"the Supreme God.\"\n\nOn these doctrines, various precepts are said by the Basilidians' opponents to have been founded.\n\nWhen Philaster (doubtless after Hippolytus) tells us in his first sentence about Basilides that \"he violated the laws of Christian truth by making an outward show and discourse concerning the Law and the Prophets and the Apostles, but believing otherwise,\" the reference is probably revealing an antinomian sentiment among the Basilidians. The Basilidians considered themselves to be no longer Jews, and to have become more than Christians. Repudiation of martyrdom was naturally accompanied by indiscriminate use of things offered to idols. And from there the principle of indifference is said to have been carried so far as to sanction promiscuous immorality.\n\nAmong the later followers of Basilides, magic, invocations, \"and all other curious arts\" played a part. The names of the rulers of the several heavens were handed down as a weighty secret, which was a result of the belief that whoever knew the names of these rulers would after death pass through all the heavens to the supreme God. In accordance with this, Christ also, in the opinion of these followers of Basilides, was in the possession of a mystic name (\"Caulacau\") by the power of which he had descended through all the heavens to Earth, and had then again ascended to the Father. Redemption, accordingly, could be conceived as the revelation of mystic names. Whether Basilides himself had already given this magic tendency to Gnosticism cannot be decided.\n\nA reading taken from the inferior MSS. of Irenaeus has added the further statement that they used \"images\"; and this single word is often cited in corroboration of the popular belief that the numerous ancient gems on which grotesque mythological combinations are accompanied by the mystic name ΑΒΡΑΣΑΞ were of Basilidian origin.\n\nIt has been shown that there is little tangible evidence for attributing any known gems to Basilidianism or any other form of Gnosticism, and that in all probability the Basilidians and the pagan engravers of gems alike borrowed the name from some Semitic mythology. No attempts of critics to trace correspondences between the mythological personages, and to explain them by supposed condensations or mutilations, have attained even plausibility.\n\nThe most distinctive is the discouragement of martyrdom, which was made to rest on several grounds. To confess the Crucified was called a token of being still in bondage to the angels who made the body, and it was condemned especially as a vain honour paid not to Christ, Who neither suffered nor was crucified, but to Simon of Cyrene.\n\nThe contempt for martyrdom, which was perhaps the most notorious characteristic of the Basilidians, would find a ready excuse in their master's speculative paradox about martyrs, even if he did not discourage martyrdom himself.\n\nAccording to both Hippolytus and Irenaeus, the Basilidians denied that the God of the Jews was the supreme God. According to Hippolytus, the God of the Jews was the Archon of the Hebdomad, which was inferior to the Great Archon, the Holy Spirit, the seed-mass (threefold sonship), and the not-being God.\n\nAccording to Irenaeus, the Basilidians believed the God of the Jews was inferior to the 365 sets of Archons above him, as well as the powers, principalities, Dynamis and Sophia, Phronesis, Logos, Nûs, and finally the Unbegotten Father.\n\nIt is hardly necessary to add that they expected the resurrection of the soul alone, insisting on the natural corruptibility of the body.\n\nTheir discouragement of martyrdom was one of the secrets which the Basilidians diligently cultivated, following naturally on the supposed possession of a hidden knowledge. Likewise, their other mysteries were to be carefully guarded, and disclosed to \"only one out of 1000 and two out of 10,000.\"\n\nThe silence of five years which Basilides imposed on novices might easily degenerate into the perilous dissimulation of a secret sect, while their exclusiveness would be nourished by his doctrine of the Election; and the same doctrine might further after a while receive an antinomian interpretation.\n\nIrenaeus and Epiphanius reproach Basilides with the immorality of his system, and Jerome calls Basilides a master and teacher of debaucheries. It is likely, however, that Basilides was personally free from immorality and that this accusation was true neither of the master nor of some of his followers. However, imperfect and distorted as the picture may be, such was doubtless in substance the creed of Basilidians not half a century after Basilides had written. In this and other respects our accounts may possibly contain exaggerations; but Clement's complaint of the flagrant degeneracy in his time from the high standard set up by Basilides himself is unsuspicious evidence, and a libertine code of ethics would find an easy justification in such maxims as are imputed to the Basilidians. \n\nTwo misunderstandings have been specially misleading. Abrasax, the chief or Archon of the first set of angels, has been confounded with \"the Unbegotten Father,\" and the God of the Jews, the Archon of the lowest heaven, has been assumed to be the only Archon recognized by the later Basilidians, though Epiphanius distinctly implies that each of the 365 heavens had its Archon. The mere name \"Archon\" is common to most forms of Gnosticism. Basilidianism seems to have stood alone in appropriating Abrasax; but Caulacau plays a part in more than one system, and the functions of the angels recur in various forms of Gnosticism, and especially in that derived from Saturnilus. Saturnilus likewise affords a parallel in the character assigned to the God of the Jews as an angel, and partly in the reason assigned for the Saviour's mission; while the Antitactae of Clement recall the resistance to the God of the Jews inculcated by the Basilidians.\n\nOther \"Basilidian\" features appear in the \"Pistis Sophia\", viz. many barbaric names of angels (with 365 Archons, p. 364), and elaborate collocations of heavens, and a numerical image taken from (p. 354). The Basilidian Simon of Cyrene apparently appears in the \"Second Treatise of the Great Seth\", where Jesus says: \"it was another, Simon, who bore the cross on his shoulder. It was another upon whom they placed the crown of thorns ... And I was laughing at their ignorance.\"\n\nThere is no evidence that the sect extended itself beyond Egypt; but there it survived for a long time. Epiphanius (about 375) mentions the Prosopite, Athribite, Saite, and \"Alexandriopolite\" (read Andropolite) nomes or cantons, and also Alexandria itself, as the places in which it still throve in his time, and which he accordingly inferred to have been visited by Basilides. All these places lie on the western side of the Delta, between Memphis and the sea. Nearer the end of the 4th century, Jerome often refers to Basilides in connexion with the hybrid Priscillianism of Spain, and the mystic names in which its votaries delighted. According to Sulpicius Severus this heresy took its rise in \"the East and Egypt\"; but, he adds, it is not easy to say \"what the beginnings were out of which it there grew\" (\"quibus ibi initiis coaluerit\"). He states, however, that it was first brought to Spain by Marcus, a native of Memphis. This fact explains how the name of Basilides and some dregs of his disciples' doctrines or practices found their way to so distant a land as Spain, and at the same time illustrates the probable hybrid origin of the secondary Basilidianism itself.\n\nBasilidian works are named for the founder of their school, Basilides (132–? AD). These works are mainly known to us through the criticisms of one of his opponents, Irenaeus in his work \"Adversus Haereses\". The other pieces are known through the work of Clement of Alexandria:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6069366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6069366", "title": "Camille Charles Leclerc, Chevalier de Fresne", "text": "Camille Charles Leclerc, Chevalier de Fresne\n\nCamille Charles Leclerc, Chevalier de Fresne was Governor General of Mauritius and Puducherry in the French Colonial Empire.\n\nOne significant event occurred in his tenure was Mr. Pierre Sonnerat, Chief of Yanam, was involved in the business along with other traders. Pierre Sonnerat's commercial involvement brought serious consequences to his administrative post (Chief of Yanam). The petitions were made against Pierre Sonnerat in this connection, to Chevalier de Fresne, the then French Governor General in Puducherry. On 5 June 1790 a French man \"De Mars\" complained against Pierre Sonnerat for the first time.\n"}
{"id": "3647630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3647630", "title": "Chignon (medical term)", "text": "Chignon (medical term)\n\nA chignon is a temporary swelling left on an infant's head after a ventouse suction cap has been used to deliver him or her. It is not a sign of serious injury and may take as little as two hours or as long as two weeks to disappear.\n\n"}
{"id": "1092851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1092851", "title": "Clarence Bruce, 3rd Baron Aberdare", "text": "Clarence Bruce, 3rd Baron Aberdare\n\nClarence Napier Bruce, 3rd Baron Aberdare, GBE (2 August 1885 – 4 October 1957), styled The Honourable from 1895 to 1929, was a British military officer, cricketer, tennis player, and also an excellent golfer. He was the second son of Henry Bruce, 2nd Baron Aberdare.\n\nBruce received his education at Twyford School, Winchester College and at New College, Oxford, and was admitted as a barrister of the Inner Temple; however, when World War I broke out, he decided to enter the British Army. His elder brother was killed in action in 1914, making him heir apparent to his father's barony.\n\nLord Aberdare, who would rise to the substantive rank of captain (and would become an honorary colonel) in World War I, served variously in the Glamorgan Yeomanry, the 2nd Life Guards, the headquarters of the 61st (2nd South Midland) Division and in the Guards Machine Gun Regiment; in 1919, immediately after the armistice, he was promoted to captain. He inherited the barony in 1929. He served as the honorary colonel of the 77 (later 282) (Welsh) Heavy AA Brigade, RA from 1930 to 1952; during this period, he additionally served as major of the 11th Battalion, Surrey Home Guards during World War II. Between the two world wars, he was an active real tennis player. Bruce was U.S.A. Amateur Champion in 1930 and of the British Isles in 1932 and 1938. He played eighteen times for Great Britain in the Bathurst Cup and six times won the Coupe de Paris. He carried off the M.C.C. Gold Prize on five occasions and nine times won the Silver Prize.\n\nIn 1937, Aberdare was appointed chairman of the National Fitness Council, the first attempt at a Sports Council in England. It quickly established 22 area committees to help with its aim of promoting a fit population. It was funded by the Department of Education and provided capital grants for new facilities and other grants to help with the appointment of trainers and leaders. It had a difficult two years before being dissolved in October 1939. These included liaison with existing statutory and voluntary organisations. In absorbing the Juvenile Organisations Committee and its local committees it alienated many who had worked towards bridging the gap between recreation provided at school and to the wider community (14–20 age group). In addition there was much support for compulsory physical training as opposed to the Council's approach of a voluntary ethos.\n\nSimultaneously, Aberdare played an active role in the organisation of the Olympics; he served on the International Olympic Committee, and on the organising committee of the 1948 Summer Olympics in London. He was a key player in the decision to send British athletes to Hitler's 1936 Olympics, asserting that \"neither nor his colleagues 'had yet heard of a genuine case of an Olympic athlete being boycotted or impeded because of his non-Aryan origin'\", this despite Nazi Germany's overtly stated anti-semitism. He served in many physical education and sportsmen's clubs, and was also be a member of the New College Society. In 1948, he was created a Knight of the Order of St John of Jerusalem, and a Commander of the Order of the British Empire a year later. In 1954, he was additionally created a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire.\n\nHis death was caused by drowning after his car fell over a precipice in Yugoslavia into three feet of water in a river bed on 4 October 1957 at the age of 72.\n\n"}
{"id": "10422205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10422205", "title": "Classification of Fatou components", "text": "Classification of Fatou components\n\nIn mathematics, Fatou components are components of the Fatou set.\n\nIf f is a rational function\n\ndefined in the extended complex plane, and if it is a nonlinear function ( degree > 1 )\n\nthen for a periodic component formula_3 of the Fatou set, exactly one of the following holds:\n\n\nA Siegel disk is a simply connected Fatou component on which \"f\"(\"z\") is analytically conjugate\nto a Euclidean rotation of the unit disc onto itself by an irrational rotation angle.\nA Herman ring is a double connected Fatou component (an annulus) on which \"f\"(\"z\") is analytically conjugate to a Euclidean rotation of a round annulus, again by an irrational rotation angle.\n\nThe components of the map formula_8 contain the attracting points that are the solutions to formula_9. This is because the map is the one to use for finding solutions to the equation formula_9 by Newton-Raphson formula. The solutions must naturally be attracting fixed points.\n\nThe map\nand t = 0.6151732... will produce a Herman ring. It is shown by Shishikura that the degree of such map must be at least 3, as in this example.\n\nIn case of transcendental functions there is another type of periodic Fatou components, called Baker domain: these are \"domains on which the iterates tend to an essential singularity (not possible for polynomials and rational functions)\" Example function :\n\nformula_12\n\nFinally, transcendental maps also may have wandering domains: these are Fatou components that are not eventually periodic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "316048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316048", "title": "Cleveland Elementary School shooting (San Diego)", "text": "Cleveland Elementary School shooting (San Diego)\n\nThe Grover Cleveland Elementary School shooting took place on January 29, 1979, at a public elementary school in San Diego, California, United States. The principal and a custodian were killed; eight children and a police officer were injured. A 16-year-old girl, Brenda Spencer, who lived in a house across the street from the school, was convicted of the shootings. Tried as an adult, she pleaded guilty to two counts of murder and assault with a deadly weapon, and was given an indefinite sentence. she remains in prison.\n\nA reporter reached Spencer by phone while she was still in the house after the shooting, and asked her why she did it. She answered: \"I don't like Mondays. This livens up the day,\" which inspired Bob Geldof to write the Boomtown Rats song \"I Don't Like Mondays.\"\n\nBrenda Spencer (born April 3, 1962) lived in the San Carlos neighborhood of San Diego, California in a house across the street from Grover Cleveland Elementary School in the San Diego Unified School District. Age 16, she was 5'2\" (157 cm) and had bright red hair. She is said to have self-identified as \"having been gay from birth.\" After her parents separated, she lived with her father, Wallace Spencer, in poverty. They slept on a single mattress on the living room floor, with empty alcohol bottles throughout the house.\n\nAcquaintances said Spencer expressed hostility toward policemen, had spoken about shooting one and had talked of doing something big to get on television. Although Spencer showed exceptional ability as a photographer, winning first prize in a Humane Society competition, she was generally uninterested in school. She attended Patrick Henry High School where one teacher recalled frequently inquiring if she was awake in class. Later, during tests while she was in custody, it was discovered Spencer had an injury to the temporal lobe of her brain. It was attributed to an accident on her bicycle.\n\nIn early 1978, staff at a facility for problem students, into which Spencer had been referred for truancy, informed her parents that she was suicidal. That summer, Spencer, who was known to hunt birds in the neighborhood, was arrested for shooting out the windows of Cleveland Elementary with a BB gun and for burglary. In December, a psychiatric evaluation arranged by her probation officer recommended that Spencer be admitted to a mental hospital for depression, but her father refused to give permission. For Christmas 1978, he gave her a Ruger 10/22 semi-automatic .22 caliber rifle with a telescopic sight and 500 rounds of ammunition. Spencer later said, \"I asked for a radio and he bought me a gun.\" When asked why he might have done that, she answered, \"I felt like he wanted me to kill myself.\" \n\nOn the morning of Monday, January 29, 1979, Spencer began shooting at children waiting for Principal Burton Wragg (aged 53) to open the gates to Cleveland Elementary. She injured eight children. Spencer shot and killed Wragg as he tried to help children. She also killed custodian Mike Suchar (aged 56) as he tried to pull a student to safety. A police officer (aged 28), responding to a call for assistance during the incident, was wounded in the neck as he arrived.\n\nAfter firing thirty times, Spencer barricaded herself inside her home for several hours. While there, she spoke by telephone to a reporter from \"The San Diego Union-Tribune\". Spencer told the reporter she shot at the schoolchildren and adults because, \"I don't like Mondays. This livens up the day.\" She also told police negotiators the kids and adults whom she shot were easy targets and that she was going to \"come out shooting.\" Spencer has been repeatedly reminded of these statements at parole hearings. Ultimately, she surrendered. Police officers found beer and whiskey bottles cluttered around the house but said Spencer did not appear to be intoxicated when arrested.\n\nSpencer was charged as an adult and pleaded guilty to two counts of murder and assault with a deadly weapon. On April 4, 1980, a day after her eighteenth birthday, she was sentenced to 25 years to life. In prison, Spencer was diagnosed as an epileptic and received medication to treat her epilepsy and depression. While at the California Institution for Women in Chino, she worked repairing electronic equipment.\n\nUnder the terms of her indeterminate sentence, Spencer became eligible for hearings to consider her suitability for parole in 1993. Normally, very few people convicted on a charge of murder were able to obtain parole in California before 2011. , she has been unsuccessful at four parole board hearings. At her first hearing, Spencer said she had hoped police would shoot her and that she had been a user of alcohol and drugs at the time of the crime, which contradicted the results of drug tests done when she was taken into custody. In her 2001 hearing, Spencer first claimed that her father had been subjecting her to beatings and sexual abuse, but he said the allegations were not true. The parole board chairman said that as she had not previously told any prison staff about the allegations, he doubted whether they were true. In 2005, a San Diego deputy district attorney cited an incident of self-harm from four years earlier when Spencer's girlfriend was released from jail, as showing that she was psychotic and unfit to be released. The self-harm is commonly reported as scratching the words \"courage\" and \"pride\" into her own skin; however, Spencer corrected this during her parole hearing as \"runes\" reading \"unforgiven\" and \"alone.\" In 2009, the board again refused her application for parole and ruled it would be ten years before she would be considered again.\n\nSpencer was cited as the inspiration for the song \"I Don't Like Mondays,\" written by Bob Geldof for his band the Boomtown Rats, which was released later that year. Geldof and his band were in San Diego performing at The Roxy Theater, a small movie theater and concert hall in the Pacific Beach district, on February 27, 1979, and the preliminary legal proceedings against Spencer were headlining local news broadcasts. \"I Don't Like Mondays\" was also the title of a 2006 television documentary about the event.\n\nA plaque and flagpole were erected at Cleveland Elementary in memory of the shooting victims. The school was closed in 1983, along with a dozen other schools around the city, due to declining enrollment. In the ensuing decades, it was leased to several different charter and private schools. From 2005 to 2017, it housed the Magnolia Science Academy, a public charter middle school serving students in grades 6-8.\n\nOn January 17, 1989, almost ten years after the events at San Diego's Grover Cleveland Elementary, there was another shooting at a school named Grover Cleveland Elementary, this one in Stockton, California. Five students were killed and thirty were injured. One survivor of the 1979 shooting described herself as \"shocked, saddened, horrified\" by the eerie similarities to their own traumatic experience.\n\nBob Geldof, then the lead singer of the Boomtown Rats, read about the incident when a news story about it came off the telex at WRAS-FM, the campus radio station at Georgia State University in Atlanta. He was particularly struck by Spencer's claim that she did it because she did not like Mondays, and began writing a song about it, also incorporating the reporters' \"Tell me why?,\" called \"I Don't Like Mondays.\" It was published in July 1979 and was number one for four weeks in the United Kingdom, and was the band's biggest hit in their native Ireland. Although it did not make the Top 40 in the U.S. it still received extensive radio airplay (outside of the San Diego area) despite the Spencer family's efforts to prevent it. Geldof has later mentioned that, \"[Spencer] wrote to me saying 'she was glad she'd done it because I'd made her famous,' which is not a good thing to live with.\"\n\nThe book \"Ceremonial Violence: A Psychological Explanation of School Shootings\", by Jonathon Fast, analyzes the Cleveland Elementary shooting and four other cases from a psychological perspective. These are the other shootings reported on: the Columbine High School shooting, the shootings at Simon's Rock College, the Bethel Regional High School shooting, and the Pearl High School shooting, published: September 4, 2008.\n\nThe 2002 book \"Does Anyone Like Mondays? \"The Brenda Spencer Murder Case\"\", authored by attorney Eric D. Hart, details the shooting and aftermath.\n\nThe book \"Babyface Killers: Horrifying True Stories of America's Youngest Murderers\", authored by Clifford L. Linedecker dedicates the book's prologue to Spencer and refers to her crimes in multiple chapters, published: December 15, 1999.\n\nThe Lifetime Movies, formerly known as Lifetime Movie Network (LMN), series of youths who commit acts of murder \"Killer Kids\" released the episode \"Deadly Compulsion\" depicting Spencer's crimes, first air date: September 3, 2014.\n\nThe Investigation Discovery network portrayed Brenda Spencer's crimes in one of the three cases presented on the crime documentary series \"Deadly Women\", episode \"Thrill Killers\", first air date: October 9, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "22810768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22810768", "title": "DNA-encoded chemical library", "text": "DNA-encoded chemical library\n\nDNA-encoded chemical libraries (DEL) is a technology for the synthesis and screening on unprecedented scale of collections of small molecule compounds. DEL is used in medicinal chemistry to bridge the fields of combinatorial chemistry and molecular biology. The aim of DEL technology is to accelerate the drug discovery process and in particular early phase discovery activities such as target validation and hit identification.\n\nDEL technology involves the conjugation of chemical compounds or building blocks to short DNA fragments that serve as identification bar codes and in some cases also direct and control the chemical synthesis. The technique enables the mass creation and interrogation of libraries via affinity selection, typically on an immobilized protein target. A homogeneous method for screening DNA-encoded libraries has recently been developed which uses water-in-oil emulsion technology to isolate, count and identify individual ligand-target complexes in a single-tube approach. In contrast to conventional screening procedures such as high-throughput screening, biochemical assays are not required for binder identification, in principle allowing the isolation of binders to a wide range of proteins historically difficult to tackle with conventional screening technologies. So, in addition to the general discovery of target specific molecular compounds, the availability of binders to pharmacologically important, but so-far “undruggable” target proteins opens new possibilities to develop novel drugs for diseases that could not be treated so far. In eliminating the requirement to initially assess the activity of hits it is hoped and expected that many of the high affinity binders identified will be shown to be active in independent analysis of selected hits, therefore offering an efficient method to identify high quality hits and pharmaceutical leads.\n\nUntil recently, the application of molecular evolution in the laboratory had been limited to display technologies involving biological molecules, where small molecules lead discovery was considered beyond this biological approach. DEL has opened the field of display technology to include non-natural compounds such as small molecules, extending the application of molecular evolution and natural selection to the identification of small molecule compounds of desired activity and function.\nDNA encoded chemical libraries bear resemblance to biological display technologies such as antibody phage display technology, yeast display, mRNA display and aptamer SELEX. In antibody phage display, antibodies are physically linked to phage particles that bear the gene coding for the attached antibody, which is equivalent to a physical linkage of a “phenotype” (the protein) and a “genotype” (the gene encoding for the protein ). Phage-displayed antibodies can be isolated from large antibody libraries by mimicking molecular evolution: through rounds of selection (on an immobilized protein target), amplification and translation.\nIn DEL the linkage of a small molecule to an identifier DNA code allows the facile identification of binding molecules. DEL libraries are subjected to affinity selection procedures on an immobilized target protein of choice, after which non-binders are removed by washing steps, and binders can subsequently be amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and identified by virtue of their DNA code (e.g.by DNA sequencing). In evolution-based DEL technologies (see below) hits can be further enriched by performing rounds of selection, PCR amplification and translation in analogy to biological display systems such as antibody phage display. This makes it possible to work with much larger libraries.\n\nThe concept of DNA-encoding was first described in a theoretical paper by Brenner and Lerner in 1992 in which was proposed to link each molecule of a chemically synthesized entity to a particular oligonucleotide sequence constructed in parallel and to use this encoding genetic tag to identify and enrich active compounds. In 1993 the first practical implementation of this approach was presented by S. Brenner and K. Janda and similarly by the group of M.A. Gallop. Brenner and Janda suggested to generate individual encoded library members by an alternating parallel combinatorial synthesis of the heteropolymeric chemical compound and the appropriate oligonucleotide sequence on the same bead in a “split-&-pool”-based fashion (see below).\n\nSince unprotected DNA is restricted to a narrow window of conventional reaction conditions, until the end of the 1990s a number of alternative encoding strategies were envisaged (i.e. MS-based compound tagging, peptide encoding, haloaromatic tagging, encoding by secondary amines, semiconductor devices.), mainly to avoid inconvenient solid phase DNA synthesis and to create easily screenable combinatorial libraries in high-throughput fashion. However, the selective amplificability of DNA greatly facilitates library screening and it becomes indispensable for the encoding of organic compounds libraries of this unprecedented size. Consequently, at the beginning of the 2000s DNA-combinatorial chemistry experienced a revival.\n\nThe beginning of the millennium saw the introduction of several independent developments in DEL technology. These technologies can be classified under two general categories: non-evolution-based and evolution-based DEL technologies capable of molecular evolution. The first category benefits from the ability to use off the shelf reagents and therefore enables rather straightforward library generation. Hits can be identified by DNA sequencing, however DNA translation and therefore molecular evolution is not feasible by these methods. The split and pool approaches developed by researchers at Praecis Pharmaceuticals (now owned by GlaxoSmithKline), Nuevolution (Copenhagen, Denmark) and ESAC technology developed in the laboratory of Prof D. Neri (Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Zurich, Switzerland) fall under this category. ESAC technology sets itself apart being a combinatorial self-assembling approach which resembles fragment based hit discovery (Fig 1b). Here DNA annealing enables discrete building block combinations to be sampled, but no chemical reaction takes place between them. \nExamples of evolution-based DEL technologies are DNA-routing developed by Prof. D.R. Halpin and Prof. P.B. Harbury (Stanford University, Stanford, CA), DNA-templated synthesis developed by Prof. D. Liu (Harvard University, Cambridge, MA) and commercialized by Ensemble Therapeutics (Cambridge, MA) and YoctoReactor technology. developed and commercialized by Vipergen (Copenhagen, Denmark). These technologies are described in further detail below. DNA-templated synthesis and YoctoReactor technology require the prior conjugation of chemical building blocks (BB) to a DNA oligonucleotide tag before library assembly, therefore more upfront work is required before library assembly. Furthermore, the DNA tagged BBs enable the generation of a genetic code for synthesized compounds and artificial translation of the genetic code is possible: That is the BB’s can be recalled by the PCR-amplified genetic code, and the library compounds can be regenerated. This, in turn, enables the principle of Darwinian natural selection and evolution to be applied to small molecule selection in direct analogy to biological display systems; through rounds of selection, amplification and translation.\n\nIn order to apply combinatorial chemistry for the synthesis of DNA-encoded chemical libraries, a Split-&-Pool approach was pursued. Initially a set of unique DNA-oligonucleotides (n) each containing a specific coding sequence is chemically conjugated to a corresponding set of small organic molecules.Consequently, the oligonucleotide-conjugate compounds are mixed (\"Pool\") and divided (\"Split\") into a number of groups (m). In appropriate conditions a second set of building blocks (m) are coupled to the first one and a further oligonucleotide which is coding for the second modification is enzymatically introduced before mixing again. This “split-&-pool” steps can be iterated a number of times (r) increasing at each round the library size in a combinatorial manner (i.e. (n x m)). Alternatively, peptide nucleic acids haven been used to encode libraries prepared by \"split-&-poll\" method. A benefit of PNA-encoding is that the chemistry can be performed by standard SPPS.\n\nA promising strategy for the construction of DNA-encoded libraries is represented by the use of multifunctional building blocks covalently conjugate to an oligonucleotide serving as a “core structure” for library synthesis. In a ‘pool-and-split’ fashion a set of multifunctional scaffolds undergo orthogonal reactions with series of suitable reactive partners. Following each reaction step, the identity of the modification is encoded by an enzymatic addition of DNA segment to the original DNA “core structure”. The use of \"N\"-protected amino acids covalently attached to a DNA fragment allow, after a suitable deprotection step, a further amide bond formation with a series of carboxylic acids or a reductive amination with aldehydes. Similarly, diene carboxylic acids used as scaffolds for library construction at the 5’-end of amino modified oligonucleotide, could be subjected to a Diels-Alder reaction with a variety of maleimide derivatives. After completion of the desired reaction step, the identity of the chemical moiety added to the oligonucleotide is established by the annealing of a partially complementary oligonucleotide and by a subsequent Klenow fill-in DNA-polymerization, yielding a double stranded DNA fragment. The synthetic and encoding strategies described above enable the facile construction of DNA-encoded libraries of a size up to 10 member compounds carrying two sets of “building blocks”. However the stepwise addition of at least three independent sets of chemical moieties to a tri-functional core building block for the construction and encoding of a very large DNA-encoded library (comprising up to 10 compounds) can also be envisaged.(Fig.2)\n\nEncoded Self-Assembling Chemical (ESAC) libraries rely on the principle that two sublibraries of a size of x members (e.g. 10) containing a constant complementary hybridization domain can yield a combinatorial DNA-duplex library after hybridization with a complexity of x uniformly represented library members (e.g. 10). Each sub-library member would consist of an oligonucleotide containing a variable, coding region flanked by a constant DNA sequence, carrying a suitable chemical modification at the oligonucleotide extremity. The ESAC sublibraries can be used in at least four different embodiments.\nPreferential binders isolated from an affinity-based selection can be PCR-amplified and decoded on complementary oligonucleotide microarrays or by concatenation of the codes, subcloning and sequencing. The individual building blocks can eventually be conjugated using suitable linkers to yield a drug-like high-affinity compound. The characteristics of the linker (e.g. length, flexibility, geometry, chemical nature and solubility) influence the binding affinity and the chemical properties of the resulting binder.(Fig.3)\n\nBio-panning experiments on HSA of a 600-member ESAC library allowed the isolation of the 4-(\"p\"-iodophenyl)butanoic moiety. The compound represents the core structure of a series of portable albumin binding molecules and of Albufluor a recently developed fluorescein angiographic contrast agent currently under clinical evaluation.\n\nESAC technology has been used for the isolation of potent inhibitors of bovine trypsin and for the identification of novel inhibitors of stromelysin-1 (MMP-3), a matrix metalloproteinase involved in both physiological and pathological tissue remodeling processes, as well as in disease processes, such as arthritis and metastasis.\n\nIn 2004, D.R. Halpin and P.B. Harbury presented a novel intriguing method for the construction of DNA-encoded libraries. For the first time the DNA-conjugated templates served for both encoding and programming the infrastructure of the “split-&-pool” synthesis of the library components. The design of Halpin and Harbury enabled alternating rounds of selection, PCR amplification and diversification with small organic molecules, in complete analogy to phage display technology. The DNA-routing machinery consists of a series of connected columns bearing resin-bound anticodons, which could sequence-specifically separate a population of DNA-templates into spatially distinct locations by hybridization. According to this split-and-pool protocol a peptide combinatorial library DNA-encoded of 10 members was generated.\n\nIn 2001 David Liu and co-workers showed that complementary DNA oligonucleotides can be used to assist certain synthetic reactions, which do not efficiently take place in solution at low concentration. A DNA-heteroduplex was used to accelerate the reaction between chemical moieties displayed at the extremities of the two DNA strands. Furthermore, the \"proximity effect\", which accelerates bimolecular reaction, was shown to be distance-independent (at least within a distance of 30 nucleotides). In a sequence-programmed fashion oligonucleotides carrying one chemical reactant group were hybridized to complementary oligonucleotide derivatives carrying a different reactive chemical group. The proximity conferred by the DNA hybridization drastically increases the effective molarity of the reaction reagents attached to the oligonucleotides, enabling the desired reaction to occur even in an aqueous environment at concentrations which are several orders of magnitude lower than those needed for the corresponding conventional organic reaction not DNA-templated. Using a DNA-templated set-up and sequence-programmed synthesis Liu and co-workers generated a 64-member compound DNA encoded library of macrocycles.\n\nThe YoctoReactor (yR) is a 3D proximity-driven approach which exploits the self-assembling nature of DNA oligonucleotides into 3, 4 or 5-way junctions to direct small molecule synthesis at the center of the junction. Figure 5 illustrates the basic concept with a 4-way DNA junction.\n\nThe center of the DNA junction constitutes a volume on the order of a yoctoliter, hence the name YoctoReactor. This volume contains a single molecule reaction yielding reaction concentrations in the high mM range. The effective concentration facilitated by the DNA greatly accelerates chemical reactions that otherwise would not take place at the actual concentration several orders of magnitude lower.\n\nFigure 6 illustrates the generation of a yR library using a 3-way DNA junction. In summary, chemical building-blocks (BB) are attached via cleavable or non-cleavable linkers to three types of bispecific DNA oligonucleotides (oligo-BBs) representing each arm of the yR. To facilitate synthesis in a combinatorial manner, the oligo-BBs are designed such that the DNA contains (a) the code for an attached BB at the distal end of the oligo (colored lines) and (b) areas of constant DNA sequence (black lines) to bring about the self-assembly of the DNA into a 3-way junction (independently of the BB) and the subsequent chemical reaction. Chemical reactions are performed via a stepwise procedure and after each step the DNA is ligated and the product purified by polyacryamide gel electrophoresis. Cleavable linkers (BB-DNA) are used for all but one position yielding a library of small molecules with a single covalent link to the DNA code. Table 1 outlines how libraries of different sizes can be generated using yR technology. \nThe yR design approach provides an unvarying reaction site with regard to both (a) distance between reactants and (b) sequence environment surrounding the reaction site. Furthermore, the intimate connection between the code and the BB on the oligo-BB moieties which are mixed combinatorially in a single pot confers a high fidelity to the encoding of the library. The code of the synthesized products, furthermore, is not preset, but rather is assembled combinatorially and synthesized in synchronicity with the innate product.\n\nA homogeneous method for screening yoctoreactor libraries (yR) has recently been developed which uses water-in-oil emulsion technology to isolate individual ligand-target complexes. Called Binder Trap Enrichment (BTE), ligands to a protein target are identified by trapping binding pairs (DNA-labelled protein target and yR ligand) in emulsion droplets during dissociation dominated kinetics. Once trapped, the target and ligand DNA are joined by ligation, thus preserving the binding information.\n\nHereafter, identification of hits is essentially a counting exercise: information on binding events is deciphered by sequencing and counting the joined DNA - selective binders are counted with a much higher frequency than random binders. This is possible because random trapping of target and ligand is \"diluted\" by the high number of water droplets in the emulsion. The low noise and background signal characteristic of BTE is attributed to the \"dilution\" of the random signal, the lack of surface artifacts and the high fidelity of the yR library and screening method. Screening is performed in a single tube method. Biologically active hits are identified in a single round of BTE characterized by a low false positive rate.\n\nBTE mimics the non-equilibrium nature of in vivo ligand-target interactions and offers the unique possibility to screen for target specific ligands based on ligand-target residence time because the emulsion, which traps the binding complex, is formed during a dynamic dissociation phase.\n\nFollowing selection from DNA-encoded chemical libraries, the decoding strategy for the fast and efficient identification of the specific binding compounds is crucial for the further development of the DEL technology. So far, Sanger-sequencing-based decoding, microarray-based methodology and high-throughput sequencing techniques represented the main methodologies for the decoding of DNA-encoded library selections.\n\nAlthough many authors implicitly envisaged a traditional Sanger sequencing-based decoding, the number of codes to sequence simply according to the complexity of the library is definitely an unrealistic task for a traditional Sanger sequencing approach. Nevertheless, the implementation of Sanger sequencing for decoding DNA-encoded chemical libraries in high-throughput fashion was the first to be described. After selection and PCR amplification of the DNA-tags of the library compounds, concatamers containing multiple coding sequences were generated and ligated into a vector. Following Sanger sequencing of a representative number of the resulting colonies revealed the frequencies of the codes present in the DNA-encoded library sample before and after selection.\n\nA DNA microarray is a device for high-throughput investigations widely used in molecular biology and in medicine. It consists of an arrayed series of microscopic spots (‘features’ or ‘locations’) containing few picomoles of oligonucleotides carrying a specific DNA sequence. This can be a short section of a gene or other DNA element that are used as probes to hybridize a DNA or RNA sample under suitable conditions. Probe-target hybridization is usually detected and quantified by fluorescence-based detection of fluorophore-labeled targets to determine relative abundance of the target nucleic acid sequences. Microarray has been used for the successfully decoding of ESAC DNA-encoded libraries and PNA-encoded libraries. The coding oligonucleotides representing the individual chemical compounds in the library, are spotted and chemically linked onto the microarray slides, using a BioChip Arrayer robot. Subsequently, the oligonucleotide tags of the binding compounds isolated from the selection are PCR amplified using a fluorescent primer and hybridized onto the DNA-microarray slide. Afterwards, microarrays are analyzed using a laser scan and spot intensities detected and quantified. The enrichment of the preferential binding compounds is revealed comparing the spots intensity of the DNA-microarray slide before and after selection.\n\nAccording to the complexity of the DNA encoded chemical library (typically between 10 and 10 members), a conventional Sanger sequencing based decoding is unlikely to be usable in practice, due both to the high cost per base for the sequencing and to the tedious procedure involved. High throughput sequencing technologies exploited strategies that parallelize the sequencing process displacing the use of capillary electrophoresis and producing thousands or millions of sequences at once. In 2008 was described the first implementation of a high-throughput sequencing technique originally developed for genome sequencing (i.e. \"454 technology\") to the fast and efficient decoding of a DNA encoded chemical library comprising 4000 compounds. This study led to the identification of novel chemical compounds with submicromolar dissociation constants towards streptavidin and definitely shown the feasibility to construct, perform selections and decode DNA-encoded libraries containing millions of chemical compounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "16051691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16051691", "title": "David R. Moore", "text": "David R. Moore\n\nDavid Richard Moore (August 28, 1856 – May 16, 1926 ) was a physician and political figure in New Brunswick, Canada. He represented York County in the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick from 1886 to 1890 as a Liberal member.\n\nHe was born in Galt, Ontario, the son of Scottish immigrants, and came to Stanley, New Brunswick with his parents. He studied at Harvard Medical College and the University of Vermont. He married Susannah Samson and then married Dora McBean after his first wife died in 1883. Moore was coroner for the county and a surgeon in the militia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1718950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718950", "title": "Devon colic", "text": "Devon colic\n\nDevon colic was a condition that affected people in the English county of Devon during parts of the 17th and 18th centuries, before it was discovered to be lead poisoning.\n\nThe first written account of the colic comes from 1655. Symptoms began with severe abdominal pains and the condition was occasionally fatal. Cider is the traditional drink of Devonians, and the connection between the colic and cider drinking had been observed for many years. The condition was commonly attributed to the acidity of the beverage.\n\nWilliam Musgrave's publication \"De arthritide symptomatica\" (2nd edn, 1715) included the first scientific description of \"Devonshire colic\" – it was later referred to by John Huxham and Sir George Baker.\n\nHowever, the precise cause was not discovered until the 1760s when Dr George Baker put forward the hypothesis that poisoning from lead in cider was to blame. He observed that the symptoms of the colic were similar to those of lead poisoning. He pointed out that lead was used in the cider making process both as a component of the cider presses and in the form of lead shot which was used to clean them. He also conducted chemical tests to demonstrate the presence of lead in Devon apple juice.\n\nThe publication of his results met with some hostile reaction from cider manufacturers, keen to defend their product. Once Baker's conclusions became accepted and the elimination of lead from the cider presses was undertaken, the colic declined. By 1818, Baker's son reported that it was \"hardly known to exist\" in Devon.\n\nAn illness with identical symptoms was described from Poitou in western France in a work of 1616 by François Citois. It was known in English sources as Poitou colic. It was likewise demonstrated to be a form of lead poisoning in a 1757 publication by Théodore Tronchin of Geneva.\n\n"}
{"id": "39459209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39459209", "title": "Dream PetHouse", "text": "Dream PetHouse\n\nDream PetHouse was a mobile simulation social network game created by Zynga. This game was available for users to download starting on February 2, 2012. The game was similar to other games that focus on building, such as Zynga \"Dream Zoo\". In the \"Dream PetHouse\" game, users could collect and care for cute, adorable animals. A free version of the game was available to users, but to speed up his or her advancement in the game, a user could pay real money to buy digital fruit, seeds or coins. This type of game is known as a freemium. The height of Dream PetHouse's popularity was in June, 2012, when according to Daily Active User (DAU) metrics, there were about 400,515 daily users. Using DAU metrics, \"Dream PetHouse\" had about 12,602 daily users in April, 2013. Beginning in May 21, 2013, Zynga announced that it would cease supporting this game on June 28, 2013. The game was supposed to be shut down on June 28; the server was finally shut down on July 4 or 5.\n"}
{"id": "31573452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31573452", "title": "Euthanasia Coaster", "text": "Euthanasia Coaster\n\nThe Euthanasia Coaster is an art concept for a steel roller coaster designed to kill its passengers. In 2010, it was designed and made into a scale model by Julijonas Urbonas, a PhD candidate at the Royal College of Art in London. Urbonas, who has worked at an amusement park, stated that the goal of his concept roller coaster is to take lives \"with elegance and euphoria\". As for practical applications of his design, Urbonas mentioned \"euthanasia\" or \"execution\". John Allen, who served as president of the Philadelphia Toboggan Company, inspired Urbonas with his description of the \"ultimate\" roller coaster as one that \"sends out 24 people and they all come back dead\".\n\nThe concept design of the layout begins with a steep-angled lift to the (0.317 mile) top, which would take two minutes for the 24-passenger train to reach. Any passengers that wished to get off could then do so. From there, a drop would take the train to , close to its terminal velocity, before flattening out and speeding into the first of its seven slightly clothoid inversions. Each inversion would have a smaller diameter than the one before in order to maintain the lethal 10 g to passengers while the train loses speed. After a sharp right-hand turn the train would enter a straight, where unloading of corpses and loading of new passengers could take place.\n\nThe Euthanasia Coaster would kill its passengers through prolonged cerebral hypoxia, or insufficient supply of oxygen to the brain. The ride's seven inversions would inflict 10 g on its passengers for 60 seconds – causing g-force related symptoms starting with gray out through tunnel vision to black out and eventually g-LOC (g-force induced loss of consciousness). Subsequent inversions would serve as insurance against unintentional survival of particularly robust passengers.\n\nUrbonas's concept drew media attention when shown as part of the HUMAN+ display at the Science Gallery in Dublin from April through June 2011. The display, designated as its 2011 'flagship exhibition' by the Science Gallery, aims to show the future of humans and technology. Within this theme, the Euthanasia Coaster highlights the issues that come with life extension. The item was also displayed at HUMAN+ exhibit at Centre de Cultura Contemporània de Barcelona in 2015.\n\nIn 2013, Norwegian rock group Major Parkinson released \"Euthanasia Roller Coaster\", a digital single with lyrics alluding to Urbonas's Euthanasia Coaster.\n\nLavie Tidhar's short story \"Vladimir Chong Chooses to Die\" incorporates Urbonas's Euthanasia Coaster into the ending.\n\nGlenn Paton’s short film \"H Positive\" explores the motivations of a wealthy man who, upon discovering that he is dying, commissions an architect to build a Euthanasia Coaster identical to Urbonas's design. Although Urbonas is not mentioned during the film, the end credits affirm that the film was based on Urbonas's project.\n\n"}
{"id": "14419367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14419367", "title": "Fannie Sellins", "text": "Fannie Sellins\n\nFannie Sellins (1872 – August 26, 1919) was an American union organizer.\n\nBorn Fanny Mooney in New Orleans, Louisiana, she married Charles Sellins in St. Louis, Missouri. After his death she worked in a garment factory to support her four children. She helped to organize Local # 67 of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union in St. Louis, where she became a negotiator for 400 women locked out of a garment factory. Thus she came to the attention of Van Bittner, president of District 5 of the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA).\n\nIn 1913, she moved to begin work for the mine workers union in West Virginia. Her work, she wrote, was to distribute \"clothing and food to starving women and babies, to assist poverty stricken mothers and bring children into the world, and to minister to the sick and close the eyes of the dying.\" She was arrested once in Colliers, West Virginia for defying an anti-union injunction. U.S. President Woodrow Wilson intervened for her release.\n\nSellins had promised to obey the judge's order against picketing. She returned to Colliers from Fairmont, W.Va. and immediately broke her promise by challenging U.S. District Court Judge Alston G. Dayton to arrest her. He did.\n\nWith the help of U.S. Congressman Matthew M. Neely, the UMWA waged a public relations campaign to obtain a presidential pardon for Sellins. The union printed thousands of postcards with a photo of Sellins sitting behind the bars of her jail cell in Fairmont. On the back side of the card was the address of the White House. \n\nPhilip Murray hired Sellins to join the staff of the UMWA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In 1919, she was assigned to the Allegheny River Valley district to direct picketing by striking miners at Allegheny Coal and Coke Company. On August 26, she witnessed guards beating Joseph Starzelski, a picketing miner, who was killed. When she intervened, deputies shot and killed her with four bullets, then a deputy used a cudgel to fracture her skull. Others said that she was attempting to protect miners' children that were on scene.\n\nShe was buried from St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church in New Kensington, Pennsylvania on August 29 and interred at Union Cemetery in Arnold. A coroner's jury in 1919 ruled her death justifiable homicide and blamed Sellins for starting the riot which led to her death although other witnesses portrayed a different event than the deputies at the scene. The union and her family raised money to hire a lawyer to press a criminal investigation and pressure officials to reopen the investigation. A grand jury in Pittsburgh, Allegheny County, indicted three deputies for the killings but a trial in 1923 ended in acquittal for the two men accused of her murder. The actual gunman, John Pearson, never appeared for his trial and never was seen again.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58972", "title": "Friedensreich Hundertwasser", "text": "Friedensreich Hundertwasser\n\nFriedrich Stowasser (December 15, 1928 – February 19, 2000), better known by his pseudonym Friedensreich Regentag Dunkelbunt Hundertwasser, was an Austrian-born New Zealand artist and architect who also worked in the field of environmental protection.\n\nHundertwasser stood out as an opponent of \"a straight line\" and any standardization, expressing this concept in the field of building design. His best known work is the Hundertwasserhaus in Vienna, Austria which has become a notable place of interest in the Austrian capital, characterized by imaginative vitality and uniqueness.\n\nThe Second World War was a very difficult time for Hundertwasser and his mother Elsa, who were Jewish. They avoided persecution by posing as Christians, a credible ruse as Hundertwasser's father had been a Catholic. Hundertwasser was baptized as a Catholic in 1935. To remain inconspicuous Hundertwasser also joined the Hitler Youth.\n\nHundertwasser developed artistic skills early on. After the war, he spent three months at the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna. At this time he began to sign his art as Hundertwasser instead of Stowasser. He left to travel using a small set of paints he carried at all times to sketch anything that caught his eye. In Florence, he met the young French painter René Brô for the first time and they became lifelong friends. Hundertwasser's first commercial painting success was in 1952–53 with an exhibition in Vienna.\nHis adopted surname is based on the translation of \"sto\" (the Slavic word for \"(one) hundred\") into German. The name \"Friedensreich\" has a double meaning as \"Peace-realm\" or \"Peace-rich\" (in the sense of \"peaceful\"). Therefore, his name \"Friedensreich Hundertwasser\" translates directly into English as \"Peace-Realm Hundred-Water\". The other names he chose for himself, \"Regentag\" and \"Dunkelbunt\", translate to \"Rainy day\" and \"Darkly multi-coloured\".\n\nIn the early 1950s, he entered the field of architecture. Hundertwasser also worked in the field of applied art, creating flags, stamps, coins, and posters. His most famous flag is his koru flag, as well as several postage stamps for the Austrian Post Office. He also designed stamps for Cape Verde and for the United Nations postal administration in Geneva on the occasion of the 35th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nIn 1957 Hundertwasser acquired a farm on the edge of Normandy. Hundertwasser married Herta Leitner in 1958 but they divorced two years later. He married again in 1962 to the Japanese artist Yuko Ikewada but she divorced him in 1966. He had gained a popular reputation by this time for his art.\n\nIn 1964 Hundertwasser bought \"Hahnsäge\", a former saw mill, in the sparsely populated Lower Austria's Waldviertel. There, far from the hustle and bustle and surrounded by nature, he set up a new home.\n\nIn 1972 Hundertwasser incorporated in Switzerland, the \"Grüner Janura AG\", which was renamed to \"Namida AG\" 2008. Via this stock company Hundertwasser managed his intellectual property rights.\n\nIn the 1970s, Hundertwasser acquired several properties in the Bay of Islands in New Zealand, which include a total area of approximately 372 ha of the entire \"Kaurinui\" valley. There he realized his dream of living and working closely connected to nature. Beside other projects he designed the \"Bottle House\" there. He could live largely self-sufficient using solar panels, a water wheel and a biological water purification plant. Also his first grass roofs experiment took place here.\n\nIn 1979 Hundertwasser bought the vast historical garden \"Giardino Eden\" including the Palazzo \"Villa delle Rose\", from Alexandra of Yugoslavia via his Swiss company.\n\nIn 1980, Hundertwasser visited Washington D.C. to support activist Ralph Nader's efforts to oppose nuclear proliferation. Hundertwasser planted trees in Judiciary Square and advocated on behalf of a co-op owner who was fined for designing her own window. Mayor Marion Barry declared November 18 to be Hundertwasser Day.\n\nIn 1982, Hundertwasser's only child, his daughter Heidi Trimmel, was born.\n\nHundertwasser was buried in New Zealand after his death at sea on the RMS \"Queen Elizabeth 2\" in 2000 at the age of 71.\n\nIn a letter from 1954 Hundertwasser described the square as \"geometric rectangles compressed columns on the march\".\n\nIn 1959 Hundertwasser got involved with helping the Dalai Lama escape from Tibet by campaigning for the Tibetan religious leader in Carl Laszlo's magazine \"Panderma\". In later years, when he was already a known artist, Friedensreich Hundertwasser became an environmental activist and most recently operated as a more prominent opponent of the European Union, advocating the preservation of regional peculiarities.\n\nAmong the lesser-known facets of Hundertwasser's personality is his commitment to constitutional monarchy: Austria needs something to look up to, consisting of perennial higher valuesof which one now hardly dares to speaksuch as beauty, culture, internal and external peace, faith, richness of heart [...] Austria needs an emperor, who is subservient to the people. A superior and radiant figure in whom everyone has confidence, because this great figure is a possession of all. The rationalist way of thinking has brought us, in this century, an ephemeral higher, American standard of living at the expense of nature and creation, which is now coming to an end, for it is destroying our heart, our quality of life, our longing, without which an Austrian does not want to live. It is outrageous that Austria has an emperor who did no evil to anyone but is still treated like a leper. Austria needs a crown! Long live Austria! Long live the constitutional monarchy! Long live Otto von Habsburg!<br>- Friedensreich Hundertwasser, \"Für die Wiederkehr der konstitutionellen Monarchie\" (For the Return of the Constitutional Monarchy).<br>Kaurinui, New Zealand, 28 March 1983; dedicated, on 14 May 1987, to Otto von Habsburg for his 75th birthday.\n\nHundertwasser's original and unruly artistic vision expressed itself in pictorial art, environmentalism, philosophy, and design of facades, postage stamps, flags, and clothing (among other areas). The common themes in his work utilised bright colours, organic forms, a reconciliation of humans with nature, and a strong individualism, rejecting straight lines.\n\nHe remains sui generis, although his architectural work is comparable to Antoni Gaudí (1852–1926) in its use of biomorphic forms and the use of tile. He was also inspired by the art of the Vienna Secession, and by the Austrian painters Egon Schiele (1890–1918) and Gustav Klimt (1862–1918).\n\nHe was fascinated by spirals, and called straight lines \"godless and immoral\" and \"something cowardly drawn with a rule, without thought or feeling\" He called his theory of art \"transautomatism\", focusing on the experience of the viewer rather than the artist. This was encapsulated by his design of a new flag for New Zealand, which incorporated the image of the Koru a spiral shape based on the image of a new unfurling silver fern frond and symbolizing new life, growth, strength and peace according to the Māori people.\n\nEven though Hundertwasser first achieved notoriety for his boldly-coloured paintings, he is more widely known for his individual architectural designs. These designs use irregular forms, and incorporate natural features of the landscape. The \"Hundertwasserhaus\" apartment block in Vienna has undulating floors (\"an uneven floor is a melody to the feet\"), a roof covered with earth and grass, and large trees growing from inside the rooms, with limbs extending from windows. He took no payment for the design of \"Hundertwasserhaus\", declaring that it was worth the investment to \"prevent something ugly from going up in its place\".\n\nFrom the early 1950s he increasingly focused on architecture, advocating more just human and environmental friendly buildings. This began with manifestos, essays and demonstrations. For example, he read out his \"Mouldiness Manifesto against Rationalism in Architecture\" in 1958 on the occasion of an art and architectural event held at the Seckau Monastery. He rejected the straight line and the functional architecture. In Munich in 1967 he gave a lecture called \"Speech in Nude for the Right to a Third Skin\". His lecture \"Loose from Loos, A Law Permitting Individual Buildings Alterations or Architecture-Boycott Manifesto\", was given at the Concordia Press Club in Vienna in 1968.\n\nIn the Mouldiness Manifesto he first claimed the \"Window Right\": \"A person in a rented apartment must be able to lean out of his window and scrape off the masonry within arm's reach. And he must be allowed to take a long brush and paint everything outside within arm's reach. So that it will be visible from afar to everyone in the street that someone lives there who is different from the imprisoned, enslaved, standardised man who lives next door.\" In his nude speeches of 1967 and 1968 Hundertwasser condemned the enslavement of humans by the sterile grid system of conventional architecture and by the output of mechanised industrial production. He rejected rationalism, the straight line and functional architecture.\n\nFor Hundertwasser, human misery was a result of the rational, sterile, monotonous architecture, built following the tradition of the Austrian architect Adolf Loos, author of the modernist manifesto \"Ornament and crime\" (1908). He called for a boycott of this type of architecture, and demanded instead creative freedom of building, and the right to create individual structures. In 1972 he published the manifesto \"Your window right — your tree duty\". Planting trees in an urban environment was to become obligatory: \"If man walks in nature's midst, then he is nature's guest and must learn to behave as a well-brought-up guest.\" Hundertwasser propagated a type of architecture in harmony with nature is his ecological commitment. He campaigned for the preservation of the natural habitat and demanded a life in accordance with the laws of nature. He wrote numerous manifestos, lectured and designed posters in favor of nature protection, including against nuclear power, to save the oceans and the whales and to protect the rain forest. He was also an advocate of composting toilets and the principle of constructed wetland. He perceived feces not as nauseous but as part of the cycle of nature. His beliefs are testified by his manifesto \"The Holy Shit\" and his DIY guide for building a composting toilet.\n\nIn the 1970s, Hundertwasser had his first architectural models built. The models for the Eurovision TV-show \"Wünsch Dir was\" (Make a Wish) in 1972 exemplified his ideas on forested roofs, tree tenants and the window right. In these and similar models he developed new architectural shapes, such as the spiral house, the eye-slit house, the terrace house and the high-rise meadow house. \nIn 1974, Peter Manhardt made models for him of the pit-house, the grass roof house and the green service station – along with his idea of the invisible, inaudible Green Motorway.\n\nIn the early 1980s Hundertwasser remodelled the Rosenthal Factory in Selb, and the Mierka Grain Silo in Krems. These projects gave him the opportunity to act as what he called an \"architecture doctor\".\n\nIn architectural projects that followed he implemented window right and tree tenants, uneven floors, woods on the roof, and spontaneous vegetation. Works of this period include: housing complexes in Germany; a church in Bärnbach, Austria; a district heating plant in Vienna; an incineration plant and sludge centre in Osaka, Japan; a railway station in Uelzen; a winery in Napa Valley; and the Hundertwasser toilet in Kawakawa.\n\nIn 1999 Hundertwasser started his last project named (in German). Although he never completed this work, the building was built a few years later in Magdeburg, a town in eastern Germany, and opened on October 3, 2005.\n\n\nAn art gallery featuring Hundertwasser's work will be established in a council building in Whangarei, New Zealand, and will bring to fruition his 1993 plans for improving the building.\n\n\nThe extensive work of Hundertwasser includes 26 stamps for various postal administrations. Seventeen of these designs were – in part after his death – implemented as a postage stamp.\n\nTwo of the unrealized designs are alternative designs for a stamp issue (United Nations, Senegal) and were therefore not performed. Seven other designs created for the postal administrations of Morocco and French Polynesia, were not realized as a postage stamp.\n\nIn addition, Friedensreich Hundertwasser, has adapted some of his works for stamp issues. On the basis of these adaptations have been stamps issued by:\n\nThe Austrian post office used more Hundertwasser motives for the European edition 1987 (Modern architecture, Hundertwasser House), on the occasion of his death in 2000 (painting Blue Blues, under the WIPA 2000) and 2004 National Donauauen (poster: \"The outdoors is our freedom\" at civil protests in Hainburg).\n\nFor the first time a Hundertwasser motive was also used on a Cuban stamp, as part of the art exhibition Salon de Mayo (Havana, 1967).\n\nWith the exception of service marks for the Council of Europe and the Cuban stamp, all stamps were engraved by Wolfgang Seidel and by the Austrian State Printing Office in a complex combination printing process produces (intaglio printing, rotogravure printing, as well as metal stamping).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOriginal Paintings in Museums\n\nOriginal Graphic Works in Museums\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49449257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49449257", "title": "Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G)", "text": "Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G)\n\nThe FACT-G (Version 4) is a patient-reported outcome measure used to assess health-related quality of life in patients undergoing cancer therapy. The FACT-G is the original questionnaire that led to the development of the larger Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) collection of quality of life instruments. The survey assesses the impacts of cancer therapy in four domains: physical, social/family, emotional, and functional. The FACT-G is also offered with additional questions measuring cancer-specific factors that may affect quality of life, leading to the creation of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-H&N), the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung (FACT-L), and 18 others.\n\nThe Fact-G was developed by Dr. David Cella, now president and Chief Scientific Officer of FACIT.org and Chair of the Department of Medical Social Sciences at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. It was developed to assess the quality of life in cancer patients undergoing clinical trials for cancer therapy. Dr. Cella argues for the value of quality of life measures in general because \"implicitly, the relief of a symptom is valued because of its associated benefit to patient function and well-being. Explicitly, it is essential to determine whether any supportive-care intervention is producing a benefit that outweighs its cost.\" Since development began in 1987, the initial 33-item Fact-G published in 1993 has undergone multiple revisions, with the latest version (Fact-G Version 4) \"designed to enhance clarity and precision of measurement\" through \"formatting simplification, item-reduction, and rewording,\" resulting in the 27-item scale used today. In addition to revisions and refinement, the FACT-G has been translated into over 60 languages.\n\nThe FACT-G Version 4 has 27 questions, each of which is answered using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (Not at all) to 4 (Very much). Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored. Questions measure the respondents' health state over the last 7 days in four subscales: Physical Well-Being (PWB, 7 questions), Social/Family Well-Being (SWB, 7 questions), Emotional Well-Being (EWB, 6 questions), and Functional Well-being (FWB, 7 questions). Disease-specific versions of the FACT-G contain these four core subscales, with additional questions appended to address disease-specific factors.\n\nScoring the FACT-G is performed through a simple sum of item scores. Each subscale is scored, and a total score for the FACT-G is obtained by adding each of the subscale scores. With a total possible score greater than 100, additional scoring methods have been used to simplify interpretation. Modifications of scoring include normalizing the total score on a scale of 0-100 through mathematical transformations, as well as the use of a Trial Outcome Index (TOI). The Trial Outcome Index is a simple sum of the Physical Well-Being and Functional Well-Being, and is intended as a summary index of functional status to be used as a clinical trails endpoint.\n\nThe FACT-G is one of the most widely used patient-reported outcomes measures in cancer research along with the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), according to a 2011 systematic review comparing the two instruments. The authors suggest that researchers interested in the financial impact and physical symptoms of cancer treatment use the EORTC QLQ-C30, while those interested in health-related quality of life or with limited sample sizes use the FACT-G. The review ultimately concludes that \"Numerous studies have provided strong support for convergent and discriminant validity of both the QLQ-C30 and FACT-G\" and provides an aid to \"...clinical researchers in deciding which of the two questionnaires is the most appropriate for their purposes, driven by the outcomes that are of most interest.\"\n\nProfessional organizations in the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia have embraced the FACT-G as a standard assessment of quality of life in cancer clinical trials. The American Society of Clinical Oncology requested that the Food and Drug Administration define the FACT-G as the gold standard assessment of health-related quality of life in a proposed amendment to the Food and Drug Administration's \"Guidance for Industry on Clinical Trail Endpoints for the Approval of Cancer Drugs and Biologics\" although, this amendment was not included in the May 2007 publication. The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Group at the University of Oxford reported that the FACT-G is a promising patient-reported outcome measurement that is worth piloting in the National Health Service as a standard. Finally, The Cancer Institute NSW in Australia scored multiple quality of life instruments used in cancer care, and cited the FACT-G as \"most appropriate in the cancer setting\" when measuring health related quality of life in cancer patients.\n\nThe creation of the FACT-G ultimately led to the development of the FACIT family of questionnaires for use in specific circumstances and additional diseases. There are over 20 cancer-specific scales such as the FACT-B for breast cancer and FACT-C for colorectal cancer and 27 symptom indexes which are short, 6 or 7 item subscales which focus only on symptoms. 12 treatment-specific measures focus on the quality of life impacts that patients receiving enteral feeding or with neurotoxicity experience. Finally, 13 non-cancer specific measures focus on topics beyond the impacts of disease and treatment, such as COST, which assesses financial impacts while the Facit-Sp measures spiritual well-being.\n"}
{"id": "15668437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15668437", "title": "Gartons Agricultural Plant Breeders", "text": "Gartons Agricultural Plant Breeders\n\nDr John Garton, of the firm of Garton Brothers of Newton-le-Willows in the United Kingdom was the Originator of Scientific Farm Plant Breeding. He is credited as the first scientist to show that the common grain crops and many other plants are self-fertilizing. He also invented the process of multiple cross-fertilization of crop plants.\n\nIn 1898 the business became known as Gartons Limited and, under the inspired commercial leadership of George Peddie Miln, was to become the British Empire's largest plant breeding and seed company. \n\nA public company from the start, its shares were traded on the London Stock Exchange from 1947.\n\nJohn Garton and his two brothers, Robert and Thomas, were in business with their father, Peter, in Golborne and Newton-le-Willows in Lancashire, England, as corn and agricultural merchants.\n\nAs a young man, John Garton (1863–1922), was the first to understand that whilst some agricultural plants were self-pollinating, others were cross-pollinating. He began experimenting with the artificial cross pollination firstly of cereal plants, then herbage species and root crops. \n\nHe attracted the friendship and encouragement of a young Scottish seedsman, George Peddie Miln (1861–1928) who had trained in Dundee and was seed manager of Dicksons Limited of Chester.\n\nKnowing he had developed a far reaching new technique in plant breeding John Garton began to carry out many thousands of controlled crosses on fields at the family farm in Newton-le-Willows. He and his colleagues tried in 1889 to interest the UK Government’s new Board of Agriculture in the invention they called Scientific Farm Plant Breeding. But this was to no avail.\n\nRobert and John Garton made a commercial start as R. & J. Garton. They launched their first variety, 'Abundance' oat, in 1892.\n\nGenerous publicity followed in the press, together with the publication of articles by botanists in the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England, and in the Transactions of the Royal Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland in 1894 and 1898. Professor Robert Wallace (1853–1939) of the University of Edinburgh said 'Under the system originated by Mr John Garton an infinite number of new and distinct breeds of oats, barleys, wheats, clovers and grasses have been produced'.\n\nIn 1898 a public company was launched, Gartons Limited. It was based in Warrington. Many of the 600 or so subscribers for £50,000 cumulative preference shares of 6% rising to 10% were farmers. \n\nGeorge Peddie Miln joined the company as Managing Director, together with Robert Garton, Thomas R. Garton, Thomas Baxter and Arthur Smith as directors. Robert and John Garton agreed to continue to work for the Company for five years for £500 and to receive the entire ordinary share capital of the new company of £50,000.\n\nIt rapidly became the United Kingdom's best known plant breeding and seed company, and also exported seeds widely.\n\nIn 1900 an endowment was made to found the Garton Lectureship in Indian and Colonial Agriculture at the University of Edinburgh. The Garton Lectureship still exists as a biennial award to promising young lecturers in the School of Agriculture but is without emoluments and is no longer tied to colonial agriculture.\n\nNoel Kingsbury writes:From the late nineteenth century on, seed companies began to play an increasingly important, if not dominant, role in breeding non-cereal crops and a major role in producing varieties for market gardening and for private growers. The production of new cereals was a somewhat different matter - the fact that they were so vitally important for national food supplies and involved large-scale and long-term work made it more likely that they would be the concern of government. \n\nThere were exceptions though, one being the family firm of Gartons of Warrington, Lancashire, in the north of England. Their production of cereals - oats in particular - was appreciated as internationally important during the latter quarter of the nineteenth century and the early years of the twentieth; (The American wheat breeder) Mark Carleton visited them in 1898 and was reportedly astonished at their work, Garton varieties were widely exported throughout the British Empire (then by far and away the world's largest political unit) and the United States. \n\n\"That private companies could be so effective in breeding cereal grains indicated that there was no link of necessity between their improvement and the publicly funded research that was to so dominate this sector over so much of the next century.\" \n\nIn 1903 Professor Willet M. Hays (1859–1927) of the Agricultural Experiment Station in Minnesota, USA said 'No one has done more brilliant work in Agricultural Plant Breeding than Messrs. Garton, and this is from now on to be recognised.'\n\nThe introduction to their 1899 Spring Catalogue reads: \n\n\"Our original idea for the dissemination of the seed of these new breeds as the stocks became sufficiently large for the purpose, was through some public body as in the form of an annual free seed distribution upon similar lines to the free seed distributions carried out by the Governments of the United States, Canada, and several of the British Colonies. \n\n\"On three successive occasions we approached Her Majesty's Government with this object in view, the first occasion being on the formation of the Board of Agriculture, in 1889, when we offered to hand over the whole of the valuable results, providing that body would undertake their dissemination and the continuance of the work, either in the form of an annual free seed distribution or at current market price.\"\n\n\"Upon the last occasion our offer was accompanied by letters and reports from all the leading Agricultural Professors, Botanists, and Scientists in the Kingdom, setting forth the national benefit which would accrue from the dissemination of the results in the form we had suggested. The final reply of Her Majesty's Government, however, was that whilst fully recognising the value of the work, owing to there being no precedent upon which to act in such a matter, they were unable to avail themselves of the offer. This was much to be regretted for had our ideas been carried into effect the British farmer would have been placed in immediate possession of important results, which in the hands of a Public Company would not reach him for many years.\"\n\n\"Our efforts in this direction not having been successful, and as we were not in a position to undertake the work of distribution ourselves, we have placed it in the lands of a Public Company, and we trust that the continued efforts made by us on behalf of the British farmer will be fully appreciated by him, through his support of the Company responsible for the distribution of the seed of our new breeds of agricultural plants\"\n\n\"R. & J. Garton\"\"\n\nThe firm's first historic introduction was 'Abundance' oat, the world's first agricultural plant variety bred from a \"controlled\" cross, introduced to commerce in 1892.\n\nAmong the other 170 crop varieties that Gartons bred and introduced to commerce were:\n\n \n\nOn 23 March 1922 the Senatus Academicus of the University of Edinburgh offered to confer the honorary doctorate of LL.D on John Garton shortly before his death, which he duly accepted. At its meeting on 6 July 1922 the Senatus Academicus learned that John Garton had died.\n\nThe programme and report of the Graduation Ceremony held on 21 July 1922 reads The Senatus Academicus recently conferred the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Laws upon the late John Garton, who duly accepted it. The Degree would have been formally conferred on the present occasion but for his lamented death. Mr Garton invented the process of multiple cross fertilisation of crop plants and has been the means in a great measure of revolutionising field culture by producing hundreds of new and improved varieties which have greatly increased the yields of all the common crops of the farm. The achievement proved to be of immense national importance during the War.\n\nMr Garton first showed that the common grain crops and many other crop plants are self-fertilising. Up till that time they were generally believed to be fertilised by wind or insects.\nMr Garton’s results got in crossing different species of grasses helped to develop the modern conception of species.\n\nTwenty-two tears ago Mr Garton provided the means to establish the Garton Lectures on Colonial and Indian Agriculture, and subsequently he permanently endowed them as an integral part of the work of the Chair of Agriculture.\n\nThe plant breeding grounds were initially at Newton-le-Willows but moved to Acton Grange, two and a half miles south west of Warrington before settling in about 1930 at Little Leigh near Northwich in Cheshire. A seed development farm was located in Essex, and root crop trials were located on farms in the north of England and in Scotland. Traditionally groups of farmers were invited in mid-summer to inspect the plant breeding grounds and be entertained by the Company.\n\nInitially the Seed Warehouse for cleaning and distributing seed was in Newton-le-Willows but moved to Friars Green in Warrington in 1899 by which time the offices were at Thynne Street, Warrington. A purpose built seven story Seed Warehouse and separate Head Office were built at Arpley, Warrington in 1910. There was an L. M. S. railway siding into the Seed Warehouse. On 25 April 1912 the Seed Warehouse burned down but quickly rebuilt largely by the same builders. Seed cleaning machinery, some unique to the Company, ensured the purity of the product. As time went by fewer seeds were ‘picked’ or cleaned by hand by upwards of one hundred staff as machinery became more sophisticated. Across the top of roof of the warehouse was the company’s name which had to be disguised during wartime.\n\nFrom the beginning Gartons Limited tested its seeds for purity and germination at its own seed testing laboratories in Warrington. The 1920 Seeds Act, for the first time, made testing and declaring for purity and germination a legal requirement for all seed companies. The Official Seed Testing Station was created in 1917, firstly in Victoria Street in Westminster, London and then in 1921 within the newly formed National Institute of Agricultural Botany in Cambridge. Larger seed companies including Gartons Limited were licensed to carry out their own purity and germination testing. \n\nGartons Limited was the United Kingdom’s only major agricultural plant breeding company. But this caused them difficulties as early as in their Spring 1900 seed catalogue where a paragraph of the introduction reads: It has come to our knowledge that nearly all the New Breeds introduced by us up to the present time have been renamed by various dealers and are being offered by them under different names. Although the honesty of this conduct is more than questionable, we are resigned for the present to regard it as a novel form of flattery, but we strongly recommend all those who wish to secure our Seeds to order them direct from us, as they cannot be procured from any other genuine source. \n\nAfter the Great War (1914–1918) the United Kingdom government funded cereal breeding at the Plant Breeding Institute at Cambridge which had been founded in 1912, and funded the setting up of plant breeding stations in Edinburgh (1921), Aberystwyth (1919) and in Glasnevin, Northern Ireland in competition with Gartons Limited.\n\nThe 1960 Report of the Committee on Transactions in Seeds set up by Parliament entitled Plant Breeders' Rights stated that whilst two thirds of breeding work was by then carried out by government organisations, one third was in the hands of private breeders. And yet the only non-government funded agricultural crop plant breeding, research and testing establishment visited by the Committee was to Gartons Limited. The United Kingdom's Plant Varieties and Seeds Act 1964 allowed plant breeders to fully protect and be rewarded for their introductions. The last variety bred by Gartons, 'Apex' wheat, was the first British bred wheat to be awarded plant breeders rights in 1967 under this legislation.\n\nThe eldest of the three Garton brothers, Robert Garton, was the first chairman of Gartons Limited. He died in February 1950, aged 91, a widower with no children. He was succeeded by the youngest brother, Thomas R. Garton, who died in May 1956. His son, John, was chairman from August 1963 until September 1965. Dr John Garton, the middle of the three brothers, was never, a director.\n\nNine members of the Miln family were involved with the business over a period of seventy five years.\n\nBorn at Linlathen, Broughty Ferry in 1861, George Peddie Miln trained in a Dundee seed warehouse, the traditional Scottish training for a young man with ambition in the seed trade. He moved to Chester and ran one of its old established seed merchants before joining Gartons Limited as its first Managing Director in 1898. He was a member of Her Majesty's Board of Agriculture Seeds Advisory Council during the first World War. Both the Seeds Act 1920 and the formation of the National Institute of Agricultural Botany came about with his considerable encouragement during his three-year presidency of the Seed Trade Association of the United Kingdom. Of his eleven children, five trained in the seed trade. He was a Justice of the Peace in the City of Chester, a Fellow of the Linnean Society and a member of the Council of the Royal Agricultural Society of England. He died aged 68 following an unsuccessful operation.\n\nWhen George P. Miln died in 1928 he was succeeded as managing director by his eldest son, Thomas Edward Miln (1890–1963) who for over twenty five years was chairman of the Retail Committee of the Seed Trade Association of the United Kingdom which proudly kept its independence from government control during World War II. A plant breeder as well as a businessman he is credited with the introduction of the sugar beet crop to UK agriculture. \n\nWhen Gartons Limited became a public quoted company on the London Stock Exchange in 1947 T. E. Miln entered into a further ten year employment contract as Managing Director, even though he was already 59, such was his reputation. Both his sons, Wallace and George, joined him in the business.\n\nT. E. Miln was succeeded in 1961 by his elder son, Wallace Miln (1919–1994) also a skilled plant breeder and seed analyst. Wallace Miln was one of the three founders of the British Association of Plant Breeders at the time of the introduction of the United Kingdom's Plant Varieties and Seeds Act 1964. He was twice President of the Seed Trade Association of United Kingdom. He left Gartons Limited in 1973 to join his elder son, Barnaby Miln, who had trained at Gartons and later with Northrup-King in Minneapolis before setting up his own seed business at Bodenham in Herefordshire.\n\nFrom 1947 Gartons Limited's shares were quoted on the London Stock Exchange. The Company's profits for the previous seven years had averaged £48,940. In 1949 the profit of £75,340 was the highest ever recorded by the Company.\n\nIn 1965 Peter Darlington became chairman of Gartons Limited. In a dramatic change of direction in 1967 Gartons Limited ceased retailing seeds directly to farmers. Instead a new brand was created, Gartons GROplan, and marketing became wholesale through agricultural merchants throughout the United Kingdom. However Gartons GROplan was sold to Agricultural Holdings Company Limited in 1971, but Gartons Limited continued as a plant breeding company.\n\nGartons plc, as it became known, ceased trading in 1983. The seed warehouse at Bridge Foot, Warrington, which had dominated the town centre skyline since 1910, was demolished in October 1986. A hotel was built on the site.\n\nThese Explanatory Notes come from the Gartons Seed Catalogue for Spring 1900:\n\nTo those who are not acquainted with the botanical construction of plants it may be well to explain that plants possess generative organs, which correspond to those of the male and female in the animal kingdom. In the animal kingdom, progeny is derived from the mating of different animals of the same breed; in the vegetable kingdom the rule is that the seed is produced through the agency of the generative organs growing together on the same plant. Prior to the commencement of the work initiated by us and carried on during the past 20 years, which has led to the production of our New and Improved Breeds of agricultural plants, it was a recognised belief that many farm plants in the production of their seed were more or less cross-fertilised. The results of our experiments however have proved that such was not the case but that constant in-and-in breeding was the rule. \n\nWhere such in-and-in breeding takes place the results are governed by the same natural laws as the in-and-in breeding of animals. In the production of New Breeds of animals the rule followed is to mate two animals of distinct breeds. The progeny, when fixity of type has been secured, constitutes a New Breed. \n\nUnder our system of plant breeding we carry the mating of varieties or breeds far beyond what is practised in the animal kingdom. In the first instance we mate varieties and also what were formerly regarded as distinct species of the same genera, and after fixation, the progeny by these combinations are further mated together. \n\nA further extension of our system which is in itself unique and instructive, is the mating of uncultivated indigenous plants of the same Natural Order as the cultivated varieties. From such combinations most valuable results have been obtained. \n\nFor example In Southern Asia there exists a species of wheat botanically known as Triticum spelta. In some districts it is looked upon as an indigenous weed infesting the cultivated crops of wheat. \n\nUnder no climatic conditions does the grain of this species shed its seed when ripe, and even in threshing it is not possible to separate the grains, as the spikelets break off at the bases of the glumes, the grains remaining firmly enclosed between the chaff scales. \n\nBy mating the varieties of this species with cultivated varieties, new breeds have been produced which will under no conditions shed their seed when ripe, but which thresh out a perfectly clean sample with a much heavier yield per acre than common wheat. \n\nIn China there is an indigenous species of oat botanically known as Avena nuda or naked oat. The peculiar feature of this species is that the grains (which are very small) grow without any husk, being protected only by the chaff. The habit of the plant is likewise quite unique, four or five grains being suspended upon a thread-like filament about half an inch long. The mating of this species with cultivated varieties has produced new breeds giving yields 50 to 100 per cent. heavier than the original cultivated parents, with a corresponding decrease in the thickness of the skin. \n\nThe wild or land oat, Avena fatua, of Great Britain has likewise been used with marked success in the production of new breeds in conjunction with the cultivated varieties. In the wild oat there is hardiness of constitution, vigour, strength of straw, and remarkable fertility. All these qualities have been retained in the new breeds produced. \n\nAnother part of our system is the improvement of existing varieties of agricultural plants. The method is similar to that adopted by the breeder of stock for the improvement of his animals, when fresh blood of the same breed is introduced from some other herd. \n\nBy crossing two distinct plants of the same variety the resulting progeny is more vigorous and robust in constitution, whilst the habit and individual character of the variety is maintained. \n\nA year later, these Explanatory Notes come from the Gartons Seed Catalogue for Spring 1901:\n\nFOR over 20 years the work of cross-fertilising crop plants, with the object of producing New and Improved Breeds, has been carried on at Newton-le-Willows in Lancashire. It has there for the first time been demonstrated to Scientific Botanists as well as to Agriculturists that all the corn crops (cereals) and nearly all the other common crops of the farm are self fertilising. In other words, each individual plant provides the pollen which is required in the process of producing seed, to fertilise the female organs of its own flowers. This natural process results in a perfect system of in-breeding which has been going on for an indefinite period, making it possible to grow the different varieties of crops of the same kind in close proximity to each other, and even as mixed crops without any danger of crosses being produced. \n\nIf crossing could have occurred in nature it would have been quite impossible to maintain the purity of any variety of crop plant for more than a year or two. As in the Animal Kingdom, the in-breeding of plants tends to the decrease of constitutional vigour, consequently when cross-fertilisation is practised the size and vigour of the selected progeny are increased in a remarkable degree.\nAlthough the natural laws which govern the Animal and the Vegetable Kingdoms bear a very strong resemblance to each other, further points can be realised and greater progress can be made in a limited time with plants than with animals under a system of cross breeding. \n\nNot only have varieties of a given species, but what were formerly regarded as distinct species belonging to the same genus, been successfully mated. \nThe tendency to sterility in their progeny is overcome by introducing pollen from one or other '01' the original plants, it being the male organs of reproduction that are liable to be absent or defective in the progeny of two extremely divergent parent plants. Many varieties as well as species can thus be blended in the formation of a new breed, but as it is necessary to secure fixity of type in every cross bred plant before it is again used for crossing, the labour and care involved are very considerable. \n\nAttempts at the production of first crosses are not new, as these have been practised for many years by experimenters in the same field, who however stopped short of the point at which the Garton System achieved its greatest results, viz. by compound or multiple crossing. This further stage of the work of cross fertilisation leads to a thorough dislocation of the usual course of the law of inheritance by which \"like produces like.\" In the wilderness of uncertainty and confusion which follows and in which the great majority of the progeny are found to be abortive or inferior, a few choice specimens appear which are grown for a number of years until fixity of type has been secured. These superior and selected specimens are adopted as suitable for cultivation, and a number of them are described in this Catalogue and offered to the public as much superior to the old varieties from which they were derived by the Garton System of Plant Breeding. In making the selections the large quantity and superior quality of the grain, together with great standing power in the straw have been the chief characteristics aimed at, and if these desiderata have been secured in a few of the new breeds to the detriment of the habit of \"tillering,\" the difficulty is readily overcome by providing a liberal seeding.\nSome of the most striking and valuable results have been achieved by introducing as progenitors, certain weeds belonging to the same natural order of plants as the cultivated parents. For example, an inferior variety of \"spelt\" wheat Triticum spelta from Southern Asia, has been employed with excellent results to introduce strength of gluten to the grain, and large yielding and standing power to the crop with immunity from shedding its seed during harvest.\nA wild naked Oat, Avena nuda, indigenous to China has been used to produce new breeds which yield in some instances 100 per cent. more than their cultivated parents. Four or five grains are suspended in each spikelet by a thread like filament about half-an-inch long. This peculiar habit of the plant 'has been extended in the progeny and an' accompanying illustration shows a spikelet with no fewer than 14 grains in it.\nThe hardiness of constitution, standing power of straw, and remarkable fertility of the wild or land oat, Avena fatua, of Great Britain have been successfully introduced, but not without many difficulties, into some of the new breeds.\nSome progress has also been made with the improvement of existing varieties of Agricultural plants by introducing pollen from plants of the same variety to increase the vigour of the plant without materially altering its general characteristics.\n\nBarley Varieties:\n\nBarley varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Standwell in 1898, Invincible (1899), Zero (1900), Brewer’s Favourite (1901), The Maltster (1903), Eclipse (1904), Ideal (1906), 1917 (1918), Admiral Beatty (1920), Triumphant (1927).\n\nOat Varieties:\n\nOat varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Abundance in 1892, Pioneer (1899), Tartar King (1899), Waverley (1900), Goldfinder (1901), Storm King (1902), Excelsior (1903), Colossal (1904), Rival (1906), Unversed (1907), Bountiful (1908), The Yielder (1909), The Record (1911), The Leader (1913), Supreme (1915), The Hero (1916), The Captain (1919), Sir Douglas Haig (1920), Marvellous (1921), Superb (1923), Earl Haig (1925), Cropwell (1926), Plentiful (1927), Black Prince (1929), Progress (1930), Unique (1931), Onward (1935), Jubilee (1936), Royal Scot (1940), Spitfire (1945), Early Grey (1946), Forward (1953), Angus (1959).\n\nWheat Varieties:\n\nWheat varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include White Monarch in 1899, White Pearl (1900), Red King (1900), New Era (1903), Reliance (1909), Victor (1910), Benefactor (1914), Early Cone (1918), The Hawk (1918), Marshal Foch (1919), Rector (1923), Benefactress (1925), Renown (1926), Wilhelmina Regenerated (1928), Gartons No 60 (1932), Gartons Q3 (1933), Redman (1934), Little Tich (1935), Wilma (1936), Warden (1938), Meteor (1941), Pilot (1945), Welcome (1950), Masterpiece (1951), Alpha (1952), Victor II (1953), Ritchie (1957), Apex (1965).\n\nSwede Varieties:\n\nSwede varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Zero in 1900, Lord Derby (1900), Perfection (1900), Monarch (1900), Model (1900), Green Tankard (1901), Keepwell (1902), Cropwell (1903), Superlative (1905), Victory (1907), Incomparable (1907), Warrington (1914), Acme (1914), Magnificent (1917), Viking (1918), Feedwell (1922), White Fleshed (1933), Parkside (1951), Townhead (1951).\n\nTurnip Varieties:\n\nTurnip varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Mammoth Purpletop in 1900, Greentop Scotch Yellow (1900), Hardy Green Globe (1900), Pioneer (1903), Purpletop Long Keeping (1912), Deep Golden Yellow Long Keeping (1912), The Bruce (1917), The Grampian (1920), The Wallace (1935).\n\nSugar Beet Varieties:\n\nSugar Beet varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Gartons in 1909, Gartons C (1941) and Gartons Number 632 (1962).\n\nKale and Kail Varieties:\n\nKale varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Thousand Headed in 1902, Marrow Stem Kail (1912), Gartons Hybrid (1937) and Hungry Gap (1941).\n\nKohl Rabi Varieties:\n\nKohl Rabi varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Large Green in 1902 and Improved Short Top in 1904.\n\nMangel Varieties:\n\nMangel varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Large Yellow Intermediate in 1900, Mammoth Long Red (1900), Golden Tankard (1900), Large Yellow Globe (1900), Select Golden Globe (1900), Sugar (1905), Red Intermediate (1905), Devon Yellow Intermediate (1907), Golden Gatepost (1909), Large Red Globe (1910), Large Golden Globe (1910), Nonsuch (1917), Sunrise (1919), White Knight (1922), New Combination (1924), Lemon Globe (1927), Gartons Number 432 (1928), Gartons Number 47 (1931), White Chief (1935), Gartons Number 601 (1960).\n\nRape Varieties:\n\nRape varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Broadleaved in 1906, Early Giant (1947) and Late Dwarf (1947).\n\nHerbage Grass Varieties:\n\nHerbage grass varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Hatchmere Perennial Ryegrass in 1899, Ellesmere Perennialized Italian Ryegrass (1907), Pickmere Perennial Ryegrass (1932), Delamere Cocksfoot (1936), Oakmere Timothy (1940), Flaxmere (1952), Gartons Tall Fescue (1955), Marbury Meadow Fescue (1957), Barmere Timothy (1958).\n\nClover Varieties:\n\nClover varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Giant Cowgrass in 1898, Perennial Cowgrass (1898), Perennialized Broad Red Clover (1898), Gartons White Clover (1898) and Broad Red Clover (1907).\n\nField Cabbage Varieties:\n\nField Cabbage varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Early Ox Heart in 1900, Extra Early Express (1900), Early Drumhead (1900), Selected Drumhead Savoy (1902), Selected Ormskirk Savoy (1902), Gartons Cattle Drumhead (1904), Giant Purple Flat Poll (1917), Utility (1924), Intermediate Drumhead (1924), Gartons Primo (1939).\n\nField Carrot Varieties:\n\nField Carrot varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Scarlet Intermediate in 1900, Mid Season Scarlet (1911), Mammoth White (1924), Intermediate Stump Rooted (1935), Red Cored Early Market (1935), Short Stump Rooted (1938), Giant White (1939).\n\nLupin, Parsnip, Potato, Sprouting Broccoli, Winter Beans and Winter Rye Varieties:\n\nOther crop varieties bred and introduced to UK agriculture include Gartons Lupin in 1922, Gartons Field Parsnips (1902), Gartons Number 12 Potato (1912), Gartons Purple Sprouting Broccoli (1903), Gartons Giant Winter Bean (1922), GS Giant Winter Bean (1950), P/L 14 Giant Winter Bean (1954), Gartons Giant Large Grained Winter Rye (1922).\n"}
{"id": "52057955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52057955", "title": "HUMANT (HUManoid ANT) algorithm", "text": "HUMANT (HUManoid ANT) algorithm\n\nHUMANT (HUManoid ANT) algorithm belongs to Ant colony optimization algorithms. It is a Multi-Objective Ant Colony Optimization (MOACO) with \"a priori\" approach to Multi-Objective Optimization (MOO), based on Max-Min Ant System (MMAS) and multi-criteria decision-making PROMETHEE method.\n\nThe algorithm is based on \"a priori\" approach to Multi-Objective Optimization, which means that it integrates decision-makers preferences into optimization process. Using decision-makers preferences, it actually turns multi-objective problem into single-objective. It is a process called scalarization of a multi-objective problem. The first Multi-Objective Ant Colony Optimization (MOACO) algorithm was published in 2001, but it was based on \"a posteriori\" approach to MOO.\n\nThe idea of using PROMETHEE method to integrate decision-makers preferences into MOACO algorithm was born in 2009.\nSo far, HUMANT algorithm is only known fully operational optimization algorithm that successfully integrated PROMETHEE method into ACO.\n\nHUMANT algorithm has been experimentally tested on the Traveling salesman problem and applied to the Partner selection problem (PSP) with up to four objectives (criteria).\n"}
{"id": "5076150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5076150", "title": "Hemolytic disease of the newborn (anti-Kell)", "text": "Hemolytic disease of the newborn (anti-Kell)\n\nHemolytic disease of the newborn (anti-Kell) is the second most common cause of severe hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN) after Rh disease. Anti-Kell is becoming relatively more important as prevention of Rh disease is also becoming more effective.\n\nHemolytic disease of the newborn (anti-Kell) is caused by a mismatch between the Kell antigens of the mother and fetus. About 91% of the population are Kell negative and about 9% are Kell positive. A fraction of a percentage are homozygous for Kell. Therefore, about 4.5% of babies born to a Kell negative mother are Kell positive.\n\nThe disease results when maternal antibodies to Kell are transferred to the fetus across the placental barrier, breaching immune privilege. These antibodies can cause severe anemia by interfering with the early proliferation of red blood cells as well as causing alloimmune hemolysis. Very severe disease can occur as early as 20 weeks gestation. Hydrops fetalis can also occur early. The finding of anti-Kell antibodies in an antenatal screening blood test (indirect Coombs test) is an indication for early referral to a specialist service for assessment, management and treatment.\n\n\nMothers who are negative for the Kell antigen develop antibodies after being exposed to red blood cells that are positive for Kell. Over half of the cases of hemolytic disease of the newborn owing the anti-Kell antibodies are caused by multiple blood transfusions, with the remainder due to a previous pregnancy with a Kell positive baby.\n\nHemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn (HDN) is a condition where the passage of maternal antibodies results in the hemolysis of fetal/neonatal red cells. The antibodies can be naturally occurring such as anti-A, and anti-B, or immune antibodies developed following a sensitizing event. Isoimmunization occurs when the maternal immune system is sensitized to red blood cell surface antigens. The most common causes of isoimmunization are blood transfusion, and fetal-maternal hemorrhage. The hemolytic process can result in anemia, hyperbilirubinemia, neonatal thrombocytopenia, and neonatal neutropenia. With the use of RhD Immunoprophylaxis, (commonly called Rhogam), the incidence of anti-D has decreased dramatically and other alloantibodies are now a major cause of HDN.\n\nAnti-Kell can cause severe anemia regardless of titer. Anti-Kell suppresses the bone marrow, by inhibiting the erythroid progenitor cells.\n\n\nHemolytic disease of the newborn can also be caused by anti-Kell, anti-Kell and anti-Kell IgG antibodies. These are rarer and generally the disease is milder.\n\nTesting for HDN involves blood work from both mother and father, and may also include assessment with amniocentesis and Middle Cerebral Artery scans.\n\nBlood testing for the mother is called an Indirect Coombs Test (ICT) or an Indirect Agglutination Test (IAT). This test tells whether there are antibodies in the maternal plasma. If positive, the antibody is identified and given a titer. Critical titers are associated with significant risk of fetal anemia and hydrops. Titers of 1:8 or higher is considered critical for Kell. Titers of 1:16 or higher are considered critical for all other antibodies. After critical titer is reached, care is based on MCA scans. If antibodies are low and have a sudden jump later in pregnancy, an MCA scan is warranted. If the titer undergoes a 4 fold increase, it should be considered significant regardless of if the critical value has been reached. It should be noted that maternal titers are not useful in predicting fetal anemia after the first affected gestation and should not be used for the basis of care. Titers are tested monthly until 24 weeks, after which they are done every 2 weeks.\n\nIn only 2 situations are patients not monitored identically to patients who are Rh sensitized. The first is that of alloimmunization to the c, E, or, C antigens. Some concern exists that hemolysis may occur in these patients with a lower than 1:16 titer. Thus, if the initial titer is 1:4 and stable but increases at 26 weeks' gestation to 1:8, assessment with MCA Doppler velocity at that point is reasonable. However, if the patient presents in the first trimester with a 1:8 titer that remains stable at 1:8 throughout the second trimester, continued serial antibody titers are appropriate.\nThe second situation in which patients should not be treated identically to patients who are Rh D sensitized is that of Kell isoimmunization because several cases of severe fetal hemolysis with anti-Kell antibodies have occurred in the setting of low titers.\n\nIn the case of a positive ICT, the woman must carry a medical alert card or bracelet for life because of the risk of a transfusion reaction.\n\nBlood is generally drawn from the father to help determine fetal antigen status. If he is homozygous for the antigen, there is a 100% chance of all offspring in the pairing to be positive for the antigen and at risk for HDN. If he is heterozygous, there is a 50% chance of offspring to be positive for the antigen. This test can help with knowledge for the current baby, as well as aid in the decision about future pregnancies. With RhD, the test is called the RhD genotype. With RhCE, and Kell antigen it is called an antigen phenotype.\n\nThere are 3 possible ways to test the fetal antigen status. Cell-free DNA, Amniocentesis, and Chorionic Villus Sampling (CVS). Of the three, CVS is no longer used due to risk of worsening the maternal antibody response. Once antigen status has been determined, assessment may be done with MCA scans.\n\n\nMiddle cerebral artery - peak systolic velocity is changing the way sensitized pregnancies are managed. This test is done noninvasively with ultrasound. By measuring the peak velocity of blood flow in the middle cerebral artery, a MoM (multiple of the median) score can be calculated. MoM of 1.5 or greater indicates severe anemia and should be treated with intrauterine transfusion (IUT).\n\nThere are several intervention options available in early, mid and late pregnancies.\n\n\n\nIn some cases, the direct coombs will be negative but severe, even fatal HDN can occur. An indirect coombs needs to be run in cases of anti-C, anti-c, and anti-M. Anti-M also recommends antigen testing to rule out the presence of HDN. \n\nSuggestions have been made that women of child-bearing age or young girls should not be given a transfusion with Kell positive blood. Donated blood is not currently screened (in the U.S.A.) for the Kell blood group antigens as it is not considered cost effective at this time.\n\nIt has been hypothesized that IgG anti-Kell antibody injections would prevent sensitization to RBC surface Kell antigens in a similar way that IgG anti-D antibodies (Rho(D) Immune Globulin) are used to prevent Rh disease, but the methods for IgG anti-Kell antibodies have not been developed at the present time.\n\n\nOnce a woman has antibodies, she is at high risk for a transfusion reaction. For this reason, she must carry a medical alert card at all times and inform all doctors of her antibody status.\n\n\"Acute hemolytic transfusion reactions may be either immune-mediated or nonimmune-mediated. Immune-mediated hemolytic transfusion reactions caused by immunoglobulin M (IgM) anti-A, anti-B, or anti-A,B typically result in severe, potentially fatal complement-mediated intravascular hemolysis. Immune-mediated hemolytic reactions caused by IgG, Rh, Kell, Duffy, or other non-ABO antibodies typically result in extravascular sequestration, shortened survival of transfused red cells, and relatively mild clinical reactions. Acute hemolytic transfusion reactions due to immune hemolysis may occur in patients who have no antibodies detectable by routine laboratory procedures\"\n\nSummary of transfusion reactions in the US\n\n\n"}
{"id": "717634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=717634", "title": "Heterophenomenology", "text": "Heterophenomenology\n\nHeterophenomenology (\"phenomenology \"of another\", not oneself\") is a term coined by Daniel Dennett to describe an explicitly third-person, scientific approach to the study of consciousness and other mental phenomena. It consists of applying the scientific method with an anthropological bent, combining the subject's self-reports with all other available evidence to determine their mental state. The goal is to discover how the subject sees the world him- or herself, without taking the accuracy of the subject's view for granted.\n\nHeterophenomenology is put forth as the alternative to traditional Cartesian phenomenology, which Dennett calls \"lone-wolf autophenomenology\" to emphasize the fact that traditional phenomenology accepts the subject's self-reports as being authoritative. In contrast, heterophenomenology considers the subjects authoritative only about how things \"seem\" to them. It does not dismiss the Cartesian first-person perspective, but rather brackets it so that it can be intersubjectively verified by empirical means, allowing it to be submitted as scientific evidence. \n\nThe method requires a researcher to listen to the subjects and take what they say seriously, but to also look at everything else available to them, including the subject's bodily responses and environment, evidence provided by relevant neurological or psychological studies, the researcher's memories of their own experiences, and any other scientific data that might help to interpret what the subject has reported. \n\nDennett notes this method is actually the normal way that anyone will choose to investigate aspects of the mind. He writes: \"heterophenomenology is nothing new; it is nothing other than the method that has been used by psychophysicists, cognitive psychologists, clinical neuropsychologists, and just about everybody who has ever purported to study human consciousness in a serious, scientific way\".\n\nThe key role of heterophenomenology in Dennett's philosophy of consciousness is that it defines all that can or needs to be known about the mind. For any phenomenological question \"why do I experience X\", there is a corresponding heterophenomenological question \"why does the subject say 'I experience X'\". To quote Dennett, \"The total set of details of heterophenomenology, plus all the data we can gather about concurrent events in the brains of subjects and in the surrounding environment, comprise the total data set for a theory of human consciousness. It leaves out no objective phenomena and no subjective phenomena of consciousness.\"\n\n\n\n__notoc__\n"}
{"id": "1474988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1474988", "title": "Heterothallism", "text": "Heterothallism\n\nHeterothallic species have sexes that reside in different individuals. The term is applied particularly to distinguish heterothallic fungi, which require two compatible partners to produce sexual spores, from homothallic ones, which are capable of sexual reproduction from a single organism.\n\nIn heterothallic fungi, two different individuals contribute nuclei to form a zygote. Examples of heterothallism are included for \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus\", \"Penicillium marneffei\" and \"Neurospora crassa\". The heterothallic life cycle of \"N. crassa\" is given in some detail, since similar life cycles are present in other heterothallic fungi.\n\nThe yeast \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" is heterothallic. This means that each yeast cell is of a certain mating type and can only mate with a cell of the other mating type. During vegetative growth that ordinarily occurs when nutrients are abundant, \"S. cerevisiae\" reproduces by mitosis as either haploid or diploid cells. However, when starved, diploid cells undergo meiosis to form haploid spores. Mating occurs when haploid cells of opposite mating type, MATa and MATα, come into contact. Ruderfer et al. pointed out that such contacts are frequent between closely related yeast cells for two reasons. The first is that cells of opposite mating type are present together in the same ascus, the sac that contains the tetrad of cells directly produced by a single meiosis, and these cells can mate with each other. The second reason is that haploid cells of one mating type, upon cell division, often produce cells of the opposite mating type with which they may mate.\n\nKatz Ezov et al. presented evidence that in natural \"S. cerevisiae\" populations clonal reproduction and a type of “self-fertilization” (in the form of intratetrad mating) predominate. Ruderfer et al. analyzed the ancestry of natural \"S. cerevisiae\" strains and concluded that outcrossing occurs only about once every 50,000 cell divisions. Thus, although \"S. cerevisiae\" is heterothallic, it appears that, in nature, mating is most often between closely related yeast cells. The relative rarity in nature of meiotic events that result from outcrossing suggests that the possible long-term benefits of outcrossing (e.g. generation of genetic diversity) are unlikely to be sufficient for generally maintaining sex from one generation to the next. Rather, a short term benefit, such as meiotic recombinational repair of DNA damages caused by stressful conditions such as starvation may be the key to the maintenance of sex in \"S. cerevisiae\".\n\n\"Aspergillus fumigatus\", is a heterothallic fungus. It is one of the most common \"Aspergillus\" species to cause disease in humans with an immunodeficiency. \"A. fumigatus\", is widespread in nature, and is typically found in soil and decaying organic matter, such as compost heaps, where it plays an essential role in carbon and nitrogen recycling. Colonies of the fungus produce from conidiophores thousands of minute grey-green conidia (2–3 μm) that readily become airborne. A. fumigatus possesses a fully functional sexual reproductive cycle that leads to the production of cleistothecia and ascospores.\n\nAlthough \"A. fumigatus\" occurs in areas with widely different climates and environments, it displays low genetic variation and lack of population genetic differentiation on a global scale. Thus the capability for heterothallic sex is maintained even though little genetic diversity is produced. As in the case of \"S. cereviae\", above, a short-term benefit of meiosis may be the key to the adaptive maintenance of sex in this species.\n\n\"A. flavus\" is the major producer of carcinogenic aflatoxins in crops worldwide. It is also an opportunistic human and animal pathogen, causing aspergillosis in immunocompromised individuals. In 2009, a sexual state of this heterothallic fungus was found to arise when strains of opposite mating type were cultured together under appropriate conditions.\n\nSexuality generates diversity in the aflatoxin gene cluster in \"A. flavus\", suggesting that production of genetic variation may contribute to the maintenance of heterothallism in this species.\n\nHenk et al. showed that the genes required for meiosis are present in P. marneffei, and that mating and genetic recombination occur in this species.\n\nHenk et al. concluded that \"P. marneffei\" is sexually reproducing, but recombination in natural populations is most likely to occur across spatially and genetically limited distances resulting in a highly clonal population structure. Sex is maintained in this species even though very little genetic variability is produced. Sex may be maintained in \"P. marneffei\" by a short-term benefit of meiosis, as in \"S. cerevisiae\" and \"A. fumigatus\", discussed above.\n\nThe sexual cycle of \"N. crassa\" is heterothallic. Sexual fruiting bodies (perithecia) can only be formed when two mycelia of different mating type come together. Like other ascomycetes, \"N. crassa\" has two mating types that, in this case, are symbolized by A and a. There is no evident morphological difference between the A and a mating type strains. Both can form abundant protoperithecia, the female reproductive structure (see Figure). Protoperithecia are formed most readily in the laboratory when growth occurs on solid (agar) synthetic medium with a relatively low source of nitrogen. Nitrogen starvation appears to be necessary for expression of genes involved in sexual development. The protoperithecium consists of an ascogonium, a coiled multicellular hypha that is enclosed in a knot-like aggregation of hyphae. A branched system of slender hyphae, called the trichogyne, extends from the tip of the ascogonium projecting beyond the sheathing hyphae into the air. The sexual cycle is initiated (i.e. fertilization occurs) when a cell (usually a conidium) of opposite mating type contacts a part of the trichogyne (see Figure). Such contact can be followed by cell fusion leading to one or more nuclei from the fertilizing cell migrating down the trichogyne into the ascogonium. Since both A and a strains have the same sexual structures, neither strain can be regarded as exclusively male or female. However, as a recipient, the protoperithecium of both the A and a strains can be thought of as the female structure, and the fertilizing conidium can be thought of as the male participant.\n\nThe subsequent steps following fusion of A and a haploid cells, have been outlined by Fincham and Day and Wagner and Mitchell. After fusion of the cells, the further fusion of their nuclei is delayed. Instead, a nucleus from the fertilizing cell and a nucleus from the ascogonium become associated and begin to divide synchronously. The products of these nuclear divisions (still in pairs of unlike mating type, i.e. A/a) migrate into numerous ascogenous hyphae, which then begin to grow out of the ascogonium. Each of these ascogenous hypha bends to form a hook (or crozier) at its tip and the A and a pair of haploid nuclei within the crozier divide synchronously. Next, septa form to divide the crozier into three cells. The central cell in the curve of the hook contains one A and one a nucleus (see Figure). This binuclear cell initiates ascus formation and is called an “ascus-initial” cell. Next the two uninucleate cells on either side of the first ascus-forming cell fuse with each other to form a binucleate cell that can grow to form a further crozier that can then form its own ascus-initial cell. This process can then be repeated multiple times.\n\nAfter formation of the ascus-initial cell, the A and a nucleus fuse with each other to form a diploid nucleus (see Figure). This nucleus is the only diploid nucleus in the entire life cycle of \"N. crassa\". The diploid nucleus has 14 chromosomes formed from the two fused haploid nuclei that had 7 chromosomes each. Formation of the diploid nucleus is immediately followed by meiosis. The two sequential divisions of meiosis lead to four haploid nuclei, two of the A mating type and two of the a mating type. One further mitotic division leads to four A and four nuclei in each ascus. Meiosis is an essential part of the life cycle of all sexually reproducing organisms, and in its main features, meiosis in \"N. crassa\" seems typical of meiosis generally.\n\nAs the above events are occurring, the mycelial sheath that had enveloped the ascogonium develops as the wall of the perithecium, becomes impregnated with melanin, and blackens. The mature perithecium has a flask-shaped structure.\n\nA mature perithecium may contain as many as 300 asci, each derived from identical fusion diploid nuclei. Ordinarily, in nature, when the perithecia mature the ascospores are ejected rather violently into the air. These ascospores are heat resistant and, in the lab, require heating at 60 °C for 30 minutes to induce germination. For normal strains, the entire sexual cycle takes 10 to 15 days. In a mature ascus containing eight ascospores, pairs of adjacent spores are identical in genetic constitution, since the last division is mitotic, and since the ascospores are contained in the ascus sac that holds them in a definite order determined by the direction of nuclear segregations during meiosis. Since the four primary products are also arranged in sequence, a first division segregation pattern of genetic markers can be distinguished from a second division segregation pattern.\n\n"}
{"id": "179727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179727", "title": "Isabella Beeton", "text": "Isabella Beeton\n\nIsabella Mary Beeton (' Mayson; 14 March 1836 – 6 February 1865), known as Mrs Beeton\"', was an English journalist, editor and writer. Her name is particularly associated with her first book, the 1861 work \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\". She was born in London and, after schooling in Islington, north London, and Heidelberg, Germany, she married Samuel Orchart Beeton, an ambitious publisher and magazine editor.\n\nIn 1857, less than a year after the wedding, Isabella began writing for one of her husband's publications, \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\". She translated French fiction and wrote the cookery column, though all the recipes were plagiarised from other works or sent in by the magazine's readers. In 1859 the Beetons launched a series of 48-page monthly supplements to \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\"; the 24 instalments were published in one volume as \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\" in October 1861, which sold 60,000 copies in the first year. Isabella was working on an abridged version of her book, which was to be titled \"The Dictionary of Every-Day Cookery\", when she died of puerperal fever in February 1865 at the age of 28. She gave birth to four children, two of whom died in infancy, and had several miscarriages. Two of her biographers, Nancy Spain and Kathryn Hughes, posit the theory that Samuel had unknowingly contracted syphilis in a premarital liaison with a prostitute, and had unwittingly passed the disease on to his wife.\n\nThe \"Book of Household Management\" has been edited, revised and enlarged several times since Isabella's death and was still in print in 2018. Food writers have stated that the subsequent editions of the work were far removed from and inferior to the original version. Several cookery writers, including Elizabeth David and Clarissa Dickson Wright, have criticised Isabella's work, particularly her use of other people's recipes. Others, such as the food writer Bee Wilson, consider the censure overstated, and that Beeton and her work should be thought extraordinary and admirable. Her name has become associated with knowledge and authority on Victorian cooking and home management, and the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" states that by 1891 the term \"Mrs Beeton\" had become used as a generic name for a domestic authority. She is also considered a strong influence in the building or shaping of a middle-class identity of the Victorian era.\n\nIsabella Mayson was born on 14 March 1836 in Marylebone, London. She was the eldest of three daughters to Benjamin Mayson, a linen factor (merchant) and his wife Elizabeth (\"\" Jerrom). Shortly after Isabella's birth the family moved to Milk Street, Cheapside, from where Benjamin traded. He died when Isabella was four years old, and Elizabeth, pregnant and unable to cope with raising the children on her own while maintaining Benjamin's business, sent her two elder daughters to live with relatives. Isabella went to live with her recently widowed paternal grandfather in Great Orton, Cumberland, though she was back with her mother within the next two years.\nThree years after Benjamin's death Elizabeth married Henry Dorling, a widower with four children. Henry was the Clerk of Epsom Racecourse, and had been granted residence within the racecourse grounds. The family, including Elizabeth's mother, moved to Surrey and over the next twenty years Henry and Elizabeth had a further thirteen children. Isabella was instrumental in her siblings' upbringing, and collectively referred to them as a \"living cargo of children\". The experience gave her much insight and experience in how to manage a family and its household.\n\nAfter a brief education at a boarding school in Islington, in 1851 Isabella was sent to school in Heidelberg, Germany, accompanied by her stepsister Jane Dorling. Isabella became proficient in the piano and excelled in French and German; she also gained knowledge and experience in making pastry. She had returned to Epsom by the summer of 1854 and took further lessons in pastry-making from a local baker.\n\nAround 1854 Isabella began a relationship with Samuel Orchart Beeton. His family had lived in Milk Street at the same time as the Maysons—Samuel's father still ran the Dolphin Tavern there—and Samuel's sisters had also attended the same Heidelberg school as Isabella. Samuel was the first British publisher of Harriet Beecher Stowe's \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" in 1852 and had also released two innovative and pioneering journals: \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\" in 1852 and the \"Boys' Own\" magazine in 1855. The couple entered into extensive correspondence in 1855—in which Isabella signed her letters as \"Fatty\"—and they announced their engagement in June 1855. The marriage took place at St Martin's Church, Epsom, in July the following year, and was announced in \"The Times\". Samuel was \"a discreet but firm believer in the equality of women\" and their relationship, both personal and professional, was an equal partnership. The couple went to Paris for a three-week honeymoon, after which Samuel's mother joined them in a visit to Heidelberg. They returned to Britain in August, when the newlyweds moved into 2 Chandos Villas, a large Italianate house in Pinner.\nWithin a month of returning from their honeymoon Isabella was pregnant. A few weeks before the birth, Samuel persuaded his wife to contribute to \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\", a publication that the food writers Mary Aylett and Olive Ordish consider was \"designed to make women content with their lot inside the home, not to interest them in the world outside\". The magazine was affordable, aimed at young middle class women and was commercially successful, selling 50,000 issues a month by 1856. Isabella began by translating French fiction for publication as stories or serials. Shortly afterwards she started to work on the cookery column—which had been moribund for the previous six months following the departure of the previous correspondent—and the household article. The Beetons' son, Samuel Orchart, was born towards the end of May 1857, but died at the end of August that year. On the death certificate, the cause of death was given as diarrhoea and cholera, although Hughes hypothesises that Samuel senior had unknowingly contracted syphilis in a premarital liaison with a prostitute, and had unwittingly passed the condition on to his wife, which would have infected his son.\n\nWhile coping with the loss of her child, Isabella continued to work at \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\". Although she was not a regular cook, she and Samuel obtained recipes from other sources. A request to receive the readers' own recipes led to over 2,000 being sent in, which were selected and edited by the Beetons. Published works were also copied, largely unattributed to any of the sources. These included Eliza Acton's \"Modern Cookery for Private Families\", Elizabeth Raffald's \"The Experienced English Housekeeper\", Marie-Antoine Carême's \"Le Pâtissier royal parisien\", Louis Eustache Ude's \"The French Cook\", Alexis Soyer's \"The Modern Housewife or, Ménagère\" and \"The Pantropheon\", Hannah Glasse's \"The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy\", Maria Eliza Rundell's \"A New System of Domestic Cookery\", and the works of Charles Elmé Francatelli. Suzanne Daly and Ross G. Forman, in their examination of Victorian cooking culture, consider that the plagiarism makes it \"an important index of mid-Victorian and middle-class society\" because the production of the text from its own readers ensures that it is a reflection of what was actually being cooked and eaten at the time. In copying the recipes of others, Isabella was following the recommendation given to her by Henrietta English, a family friend, who wrote that \"Cookery is a Science that is only learnt by Long Experience and years of study which of course you have not had. Therefore my advice would be compile a book from receipts from a Variety of the Best Books published on Cookery and Heaven knows there is a great variety for you to choose from.\"\nThe Beetons partly followed the layout of Acton's recipes, although with a major alteration: whereas the earlier writer provided the method of cooking followed by a list of the required ingredients, the recipes in \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\" listed the components before the cooking process. Isabella's standardised layout used for the recipes also showed the approximate costs of each serving, the seasonality of the ingredients and the number of portions per dish. According to the twentieth-century British cookery writer Elizabeth David, one of the strengths of Isabella's writing was in the \"clarity and details of her general instructions, her brisk comments, her no-nonsense asides\". Margaret Beetham, the historian, sees that one of the strengths of the book was the \"consistent principle of organisation which made its heterogeneous contents look uniform and orderly\", and brought a consistent style in presentation and layout. Whereas Daly and Forman consider such an approach as \"nothing if not formulaic\", Hughes sees it as \"the thing most beloved by the mid Victorians, \"a system\"\".\n\nDuring the particularly bitter winter of 1858–59 Isabella prepared her own soup that she served to the poor of Pinner, \"Soup for benevolent purposes\"; her sister later recalled that Isabella \"was busy making [the] soup for the poor, and the children used to call with their cans regularly to be refilled\". The recipe would become the only entry in her \"Book of Household Management\" that was her own. After two years of miscarriages, the couple's second son was born in June 1859; he was also named Samuel Orchart Beeton. Hughes sees the miscarriages as further evidence of Samuel's syphilis.\n\nAs early as 1857 the Beetons had considered using the magazine columns as the basis of a book of collected recipes and homecare advice, Hughes believes, and in November 1859 they launched a series of 48-page monthly supplements with \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\". The print block for the whole series of the supplements was set from the beginning so the break between each edition was fixed at 48 pages, regardless of the text, and in several issues the text of a sentence or recipe is split between the end of one instalment and the beginning of the next.\n\nThe Beetons decided to revamp \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\", particularly the fashion column, which the historian Graham Nown describes as \"a rather drab piece\". They travelled to Paris in March 1860 to meet Adolphe Goubaud, the publisher of the French magazine \"Le Moniteur de la Mode\". The magazine carried a full-sized dress pattern outlined on a fold-out piece of paper for users to cut out and make their own dresses. The Beetons came to an agreement with Goubaud for the Frenchman to provide patterns and illustrations for their magazine. The first edition to carry the new feature appeared on 1 May, six weeks after the couple returned from Paris. For the redesigned magazine, Samuel was joined as editor by Isabella, who was described as \"Editress\". As well as being co-editors, the couple were also equal partners. Isabella brought an efficiency and strong business acumen to Samuel's normally disorganised and financially wasteful approach. She joined her husband at work, travelling daily by train to the office, where her presence caused a stir among commuters, most of whom were male. In June 1860 Isabella and Samuel travelled to Killarney, Ireland, for a fortnight's holiday, leaving their son at home with his nurse. The Beetons enjoyed the sightseeing, although on the days it rained, they stayed inside their hotel and worked on the next edition of \"The Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine\". Isabella was impressed with the food they were served, and wrote in her diary that the dinners were \"conducted in quite the French style\".\n\nIn September 1861 the Beetons released a new, weekly publication called \"The Queen, the Ladies' Newspaper\". With the Beetons busy running their other titles, they employed Frederick Greenwood as the editor.\n\nThe complete version of \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\", consisting of the 24 collected monthly instalments, was published on 1 October 1861; it became one of the major publishing events of the nineteenth century. Isabella included an extensive 26-page \"Analytical Index\" in the book. Although not an innovation—it had been used in \"The Family Friend\" magazine since 1855—Hughes considers the index in the \"Book of Household Management\" to be \"fabulously detailed and exhaustively cross-referenced\". Of the 1,112 pages, over 900 contained recipes. The remainder provided advice on fashion, child care, animal husbandry, poisons, the management of servants, science, religion, first aid and the importance in the use of local and seasonal produce. In its first year of publication, the book sold 60,000 copies. It reflected Victorian values, particularly hard work, thrift and cleanliness. Christopher Clausen, in his study of the British middle classes, sees that Isabella \"reflected better than anyone else, and for a larger audience, the optimistic message that mid-Victorian England was filled with opportunities for those who were willing to learn how to take advantage of them\". The food writer Annette Hope thinks that \"one can understand its success. If ... young ladies knew nothing of domestic arrangements, no better book than this could have been devised for them.\"\nThe reviews for \"Book of Household Management\" were positive. The critic for the \"London Evening Standard\" considered that Isabella had earned herself a household reputation, remarking that she had \"succeeded in producing a volume which will be, for years to come, a treasure to be made much of in every English household\". The critic for the \"Saturday Review\" wrote that \"for a really valuable repertory of hints on all sorts of household matters, we recommend Mrs Beeton with few misgivings\". The anonymous reviewer for \"The Bradford Observer\" considered that \"the information afforded ... appears intelligible and explicit\"; the reviewer also praised the layout of the recipes, highlighting details relating to ingredients, seasonality and the times needed. Writing in \"The Morning Chronicle\", an anonymous commentator opined that \"Mrs Beeton has omitted nothing which tends to the comfort of housekeepers, or facilitates the many little troubles and cares that fall to the lot of every wife and mother. She may safely predict that this book will in future take precedence of every other on the same subject.\" For the 1906 edition of the book, \"The Illustrated London News\"s reviewer considered the work \"a formidable body of domestic doctrine\", and thought that \"the book is almost of the first magnitude\".\n\nSamuel's business decisions from 1861 were unproductive and included an ill-advised investment in purchasing paper—in which he lost £1,000—and a court case over unpaid bills. His hubris in business affairs brought on financial difficulties and in early 1862 the couple had moved from their comfortable Pinner house to premises over their office. The air of central London was not conducive to the health of the Beetons' son, and he began to ail. Three days after Christmas his health worsened and he died on New Year's Eve 1862 at the age of three; his death certificate gave the cause as \"suppressed scarlatina\" and \"laryngitis\". In March 1863 Isabella found that she was pregnant again, and in April the couple moved to a house in Greenhithe, Kent; their son, who they named Orchart, was born on New Year's Eve 1863. Although the couple had been through financial problems, they enjoyed relative prosperity during 1863, boosted by the sale of \"The Queen\" to Edward Cox in the middle of the year.\n\nIn the middle of 1864 the Beetons again visited the Goubauds in Paris—the couple's third visit to the city—and Isabella was pregnant during the visit, just as she had been the previous year. On her return to Britain she began working on an abridged version of the \"Book of Household Management \", which was to be titled \"The Dictionary of Every-Day Cookery\". On 29 January 1865, while working on the proofs of the dictionary, she went into labour; the baby — Mayson Moss — was born that day. Isabella began to feel feverish the following day and died of puerperal fever on 6 February at the age of 28.\nIsabella was buried at West Norwood Cemetery on 11 February. When \"The Dictionary of Every-Day Cookery\" was published in the same year, Samuel added a tribute to his wife at the end:\n\nIn May 1866, following a severe downturn in his financial fortunes, Samuel sold the rights to the \"Book of Household Management \" to Ward, Lock and Tyler (later Ward Lock & Co). The writer Nancy Spain, in her biography of Isabella, reports that, given the money the company made from the Beetons' work, \"surely no man ever made a worse or more impractical bargain\" than Samuel did. In subsequent publications Ward Lock suppressed the details of the lives of the Beetons — especially the death of Isabella — in order to protect their investment by letting readers think she was still alive and creating recipes—what Hughes considers to be \"intentional censorship\". Those later editions continued to make the connection to Isabella in what Beetham considers to be a \"fairly ruthless marketing policy which was begun by Beeton but carried on vigorously by Ward, Lock, and Tyler\". Those subsequent volumes bearing Isabella's name became less reflective of the original. Since its initial publication the \"Book of Household Management \" has been issued in numerous hardback and paperback editions, translated into several languages and has never been out of print.\nIsabella and her main work have been subjected to criticism over the course of the twentieth century. Elizabeth David complains of recipes that are \"sometimes slapdash and misleading\", although she acknowledges that Prosper Montagné's \"Larousse Gastronomique\" also contains errors. The television cook Delia Smith admits she was puzzled \"how on earth Mrs Beeton's book managed to utterly eclipse ... [Acton's] superior work\", while her fellow chef, Clarissa Dickson Wright, opines that \"It would be unfair to blame any one person or one book for the decline of English cookery, but Isabella Beeton and her ubiquitous book do have a lot to answer for.\" In comparison, the food writer Bee Wilson opines that disparaging Isabella's work was only a \"fashionable\" stance to take and that the cook's writing \"simply makes you want to cook\". Christopher Driver, the journalist and food critic, suggests that the \"relative stagnation and want of refinement in the indigenous cooking of Britain between 1880 and 1930\" may instead be explained by the \"progressive debasement under successive editors, revises and enlargers\". David comments that \"when plain English cooks\" were active in their kitchens, \"they followed plain English recipes and chiefly those from the Mrs Beeton books or their derivatives\". Dickson Wright considers Beeton to be a \"fascinating source of information\" from a social history viewpoint, and Aylett and Ordish consider the work to be \"the best and most reliable guide for the scholar to the domestic history of the mid-Victorian era\".\n\nDespite the criticism, Clausen observes that \"'Mrs. Beeton' has ... been for over a century the standard English cookbook, frequently outselling every other book but the Bible\". According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the term \"Mrs Beeton\" became used as a generic name for \"an authority on cooking and domestic subjects\" as early as 1891, and Beetham opines that \"'Mrs. Beeton' became a trade mark, a brand name\". In a review by Gavin Koh published in a 2009 issue of \"The BMJ\", \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\" was labelled a medical classic. In Isabella's \"attempt to educate the average reader about common medical complaints and their management\", Koh argues, \"she preceded the family health guides of today\". Robin Wensley, a professor of strategic management, believes that Isabella's advice and guidance on household management can also be applied to business management, and her lessons on the subject have stood the test of time better than some of her advice on cooking or etiquette.\n\nFollowing the radio broadcast of \"Meet Mrs. Beeton\", a 1934 comedy in which Samuel was portrayed in an unflattering light, and \"Mrs Beeton\", a 1937 documentary, Mayston Beeton worked with H. Montgomery Hyde to produce the biography \"Mr and Mrs Beeton\", although completion and publication were delayed until 1951. In the meantime Nancy Spain published \"Mrs Beeton and her Husband\" in 1948, updated and retitled in 1956 to \"The Beeton Story\". In the new edition Spain hinted at, but did not elucidate upon, on the possibility that Samuel contracted syphilis. Several other biographies followed, including from the historian Sarah Freeman, who wrote \"Isabella and Sam\" in 1977; Nown's \"Mrs Beeton: 150 Years of Cookery and Household Management\", published on the 150th anniversary of Isabella's birthday, and Hughes's \"The Short Life and Long Times of Mrs Beeton\", published in 2006. Isabella was ignored by the \"Dictionary of National Biography\" for many years: while Acton was included in the first published volume of 1885, Isabella did not have an entry until 1993.\n\nThere have been several television broadcasts about Isabella. In 1970 Margaret Tyzack portrayed her in a solo performance written by Rosemary Hill, in 2006 Anna Madeley played Isabella in a docudrama, and Sophie Dahl presented a documentary, \"The Marvellous Mrs Beeton\", in the same year.\n\nThe literary historian Kate Thomas sees Isabella as \"a powerful force in the making of middle-class Victorian domesticity\", while the Oxford University Press, advertising an abridged edition of the \"Book of Household Management\", considers Isabella's work a \"founding text\" and \"a force in shaping\" the middle-class identity of the Victorian era. Within that identity, the historian Sarah Richardson sees that one of Beeton's achievements was the integration of different threads of domestic science into one volume, which \"elevat[ed] the middle-class female housekeeper's role ... placing it in a broader and more public context\". Nown quotes an unnamed academic who thought that \"Mrs Beetonism has preserved the family as a social unit, and made social reforms a possibility\", while Nicola Humble, in her history of British food, sees \"The Book of Household Management \" as \"an engine for social change\" which led to a \"new cult of domesticity that was to play such a major role in mid-Victorian life\". Nown considers Isabella\n\n"}
{"id": "10833705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10833705", "title": "Jan Garavaglia", "text": "Jan Garavaglia\n\nJan Carla Garavaglia (born September 14, 1956), better known as \"Dr. G\", served as the Chief Medical Examiner for Orange and Osceola counties in Orlando, Florida from 2004 until her retirement in May 2015. She starred in the hit series \"\" on the Discovery Health Channel which first aired in July 2004 and ran until 2012. Repeats of the show are aired on the Discovery Life Channel and Justice Network. The show is ranked No. 1 for Discovery Health and is also broadcast in Australia, Europe, South America and South Africa. Garavaglia has appeared on The Oprah Winfrey Show, Larry King Live, The Rachael Ray Show, The Doctors and The Dr. Oz Show.\n\nGaravaglia was born in Saint Louis, Missouri, to Charles and Jennie Garavaglia. Her father worked as a butcher, and her mother worked briefly as a secretary and shoe model. Garavaglia has two brothers. She attended Concord Elementary School and Lindbergh High School, graduating in 1974. Garavaglia received her medical degree from the Saint Louis University School of Medicine and completed an internship in internal medicine and residency in anatomic/clinical pathology at Saint Louis University Hospitals. She also completed a fellowship in forensic pathology at the Dade County Medical Examiner's Office in Miami. She is board-certified in combined anatomic and clinical pathology and forensic pathology.\n\nGaravaglia married her first husband in 1980. In 1988, she got her first job as an Associate Medical Examiner in Duval County, Jacksonville, Florida and gave birth to their first son. Garavaglia and her family moved to Georgia in 1991 where she took a job as Associate Medical Examiner for the next two years. In 1993, the family moved once again to San Antonio, Texas where Garavaglia spent the next ten years as a Medical Examiner in the Bexar County Forensic Science Center. Their second son was born during this time, in 1994. Garavaglia and her first husband later divorced in 2006, and in 2007 she married her second husband, Dr. Mark Wallace, whom she had met years earlier while attending medical school. Dr. Wallace has made several appearances on as an expert in infectious disease and internal medicine. The couple reside in Mount Vernon, WA.\n\nOne of the first cases Garavaglia worked on as a medical examiner was Morning Glory Funeral Home scandal, in which thirty-seven bodies – many in advanced stages of decomposition – were found in a funeral home. After several caskets that the funeral director had buried were exhumed, Garavaglia determined that the director had placed multiple persons in single caskets, and pocketed the money he received.\n\nOn December 11, 2008, the remains of a small child, confirmed to be those of missing Caylee Anthony, were found near the Anthony residence in Orlando. As the location fell within Garavaglia's jurisdiction, it became Garavaglia who was the one who examined the remains and made the determination.\n\nIn 2008, Garavaglia authored \"How Not to Die\", in which she relates some of her own experiences as a medical examiner to educate readers how to better care for their health and avoid premature death.\n\nOn May 18, 2012, Garavaglia delivered the keynote address at the opening ceremonies of the 2012 Science Olympiad National Tournament held at the University of Central Florida.\n\nOn May 15, 2015, after over two decades in the practice of forensic pathology, Garavaglia announced her retirement from the District 9 medical examiner's office, to be effective on May 28, 2015. She had previously stated that she intended to retire after their youngest son left to attend college in 2013, but ended up staying on as the chief medical examiner for District 9 for two more years. She told the local news reporter interviewing her that after her retirement she would be moving to her husband's hometown, 90 minutes north of Seattle, Washington.\n\n\"How Not to Die: Surprising Lessons on Living Longer, Safer, and Healthier from America’s Favorite Medical Examiner\" is a book about safe and healthy living written by Jan Garavaglia. The book was released on October 14, 2008 by Crown Publishing, a division of Random House. Using cases from her 20 years of experience as a medical examiner, Garavaglia identifies some lifestyle and behavioral choices that may result in premature death. She also offers advice on how to be smart and pro-active about one's health. The \"Library Journal\" has called the book \"surprisingly entertaining\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1555021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1555021", "title": "John de Braose", "text": "John de Braose\n\nJohn de Braose (born 1197 or 1198 – 18 July 1232), known as \"Tadody\" to the Welsh, was the Lord of Bramber and Gower.\n\nJohn re-established the senior branch of the de Braose dynasty.\n\nHis father was William de Braose, eldest son of William de Braose, 4th Lord of Bramber and Maud de St. Valery, and his mother was Maud de Clare, (born ca. 1184) daughter of Richard de Clare, 3rd Earl of Hertford of Tonbridge Castle in Kent. John was their eldest son and one of four brothers, the others being Giles, Phillip and Walter de Braose.\n\nHis grandfather had had his lands seized and his grandmother Maud de St. Valery had been captured by forces of King John of England in 1210. She was imprisoned, along with John's father William, in Corfe Castle and walled alive inside the dungeon. Both mother and son starved to death on the King's orders. This was probably due to John's grandfather's conflict with the monarch, open rebellion and subsequent alliance with Llewelyn the Great. John's nickname \"Tadody\" means \"fatherless\" in the Welsh.\n\nAt his family's fall from Royal favour John de Braose was initially hidden on Gower and spent some time in the care of his uncle Giles de Braose, Bishop of Hereford, but finally in 1214 John and his younger brother Philip were taken into custody. They were imprisoned until after King John had died (in 1216), the throne passing to Henry III. John was released from custody in 1218.\n\nIn 1219 he married Margaret ferch Llywelyn, (born about 1202 in the Kingdom of Gwynedd), daughter of the leader of Wales Llywelyn Fawr and his English wife Joan Plantagenet also known as Joan, Lady of Wales, and he received the Lordship of Gower as her dowry with Llywelyn's blessing.\n\nIn 1226 another surviving uncle Reginald de Braose sold him the honour of Bramber, and he inherited more lands and titles when this uncle died a few years later in 1228. Sometime in the 1220s, he established the deer park, Parc le Breos in the Gower Peninsula.\n\nHe and Margaret, his Welsh wife, had three sons, his heir, William de Braose the eldest son, John and Richard (born about 1225 in Stinton, Norfolk) the youngest, (buried in Woodbridge Priory, Suffolk) having died before June 1292.\n\nIn 1232 John was killed in a fall from his horse on his land in Bramber, Sussex at 34 years of age. His widow soon remarried to Walter III de Clifford. William de Braose (born about 1224; died 1291 in Findon, Sussex), his eldest son, succeeded him in the title of Lord of Bramber. John the younger son became Lord of the manor of Corsham in Wiltshire and also later Lord of Glasbury on Wye.\n\nWilliam de Braose (c.1224–1291) also had a son named William de Braose who died \"shortly before 1st May 1326\".\n\nAnother William de Braose who became Bishop of Llandaff cannot be placed with certainty in this branch of the family.\n\nThe de Braose name modified to de Brewes in the Middle Ages 1200 to 1400.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "28951446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28951446", "title": "Juan Antonio Guirado", "text": "Juan Antonio Guirado\n\nJuan Antonio Guirado (Jaen, Spain, 1932-2010) was a Spanish artist.\n\nIn 1946, after a brief spell as a bullfighter, Guirado began work as an apprentice to mural painter\" Joaquin Segarra\" in Madrid, before traveling first to Rome to study the Renaissance artists, and then to Paris where he studied at the Impressionist School.\n\nIn 1955 he traveled to New York where he was commissioned to paint a series of important murals.\n\nHis big break happened in 1956 when he was approached on the street in Madrid for directions to a good restaurant. Instead of just giving directions, Juan lead them to the premier restaurant in the city and was invited to join them, resulting in him being hired as their driver for a business trip.\n\nDuring the trip a friendship blossomed, and on return to Madrid the couple, after seeing Guirado’s work, were happy to pay 80 times what the painter had been receiving for his work at the time. Due to this relationship, in 1956 Guirado was invited to exhibit at the prestigious \"Soler Gallery at the Fontainbleau Hotel in Miami.\"\n\nIn 1959 he moved to Australia to ‘find himself as a painter’, first living in Boneigilla before working in the \"Port Kembla Steelworks\", and then cutting cane in Queensland. He eventually settled in Sydney, renting a studio in Paddington, painting all day then working at night cleaning factories and offices to earn money to buy materials for his art.\n\nHe felt a strong spiritual connection to the country, saying in one interview he felt more soul and spirituality there than in his homeland of Spain. His work in Spain had been traditional in the form of portraits and landscapes, but it was in Australia he evolved his distinct and personal style.\n\nIn 1967–1969 he held one man shows at prestigious galleries in Australia including the\" El Dorado Gallery, the Red Rose Gallery, the St Ives Gallery\", and the \"Round House University of New South Wales\". He was also commissioned to paint reproductions of the Spanish masters as well as his own work for \"The Spanish Club on Liverpool Street in Sydney\", where they still hang to this day. Whilst on a trip to London in 1969 he sold a painting to British film director John Schlesinger, who had just won an Oscar that year for his film Midnight cowboy.\n\nIn 1970, Guirado’s Madrid exhibition, originally scheduled for three weeks showing at the \"Cultart Galleries\", was extended to six weeks by public demand. The exhibition was Guirado’s showcase to Spain, revealing his new style inspired by living in Australia. It received wide coverage in the magazines and on television, with a documentary film about Guirado and his work made for cinema release. Several of his pieces have sold for $20,000 and higher.\n\nIt was during his time in Australia that he met his muse and love of his life, Audrey Ballard. She began modeling for him to earn extra money, and ended up living with him and having their daughter Catalina Guirado.\n\nThe family returned to Spain separately, Guirado returning first, followed a year or two later by Audrey and Catalina. After a brief period in Madrid they settled in\" Los Villares\", a small village just outside Guirado’s place of birth, Jaen in Andalusia.\n\nIn 1976 art agent Dame Francoise Tempra organized 10 major shows for him as well as having his work curated in permanent collections at the\" Kemptovic\" in Le Touquet, France; \"University of Buffalo\", New York; \"Museum of Art and History\", Geneva; \"Via Condomer\", Venice; the \"British Museum\", London; \"The Roundhouse Museum\", Australia; \"The Spanish center\", Australia; \"Musee d’art et d’histoire\", Geneva; the\" Angers Museum\", France; \"Trevizo civic museum\", and the private collection of the late King Rey of Jordon. He won 1st prize at the prestigious\" International exposition, Venice, Italy\" in the same year.\n\nGuirado’s work includes a diversity of themes which are evocative. Some critics have referred to his work as '‘essentialist’' and all have agreed it is a very distinguishable and unique style that will not be mistaken for anyone else. His traditional Catholic upbringings have paid little part in the themes of his paintings with Guirado instead drawing inspiration from Eastern philosophy.\n\nCarlos Arean, director of the\" Museum of Contemporary Art in Madrid\", described Juan as having his eye on the future, with acclaimed pieces, \"Apocolypse\", and, \"Working Man’s Christ\", amongst his favorite.\n\nDuring the 80′s Guirado returned to Spain permanently and continued to paint and exhibit worldwide before settling in Mojacar, Almeria in 1995, where he was considered a revered artist and member of the community with a gallery built in his honor.\n\nIn 1995 artist and acclaimed Spanish art critique and historian, Manuel Quintanilla, wrote a book on Guirado’s life, philosophy and work, \"El Pintor Contemporaneo Andaluz\", accompanied by an art exhibition of his work.\n\nDuring the 90s and 2000s Guirado turned his back on the international art scene choosing to paint for himself and sell paintings to local townsfolk and tourists. He also acted as curator of a gallery built for his sole use in the small town of Garrucha near Mojacar. He became involved in the local political party, \"Mojacar 2000\", and could be found playing flamenco guitar and singing with the local Spanish Gypsy community.\n\nJuan Antonio Guirado died of lung cancer in July 2010, one month short of his 78th birthday. Catalina Guirado is his only heir. The town council of Mojacar is creating a tribute to him with a museum honoring the man and his work.\n\n1956: \"Soler Gallery\", Hotel Fontain, de Miami, Florida \n1961: \"St. Ives Gallery\", Sydney, Australia \n1962: \"Red Rose Gallery\", Sydney \n1963: \"Studio 4 Gallery\", Sydney \n1965: \"Campbell Gallery\", Sydney \n1966: \"El Dorado Gallery\", Sydney \n1967: \"El Dorado Gallery\", Sydney \n1968: \"Douglas Gallery\", Auckland, New Zealand.\n1969: \"Round House University\", N.S.W, Sydney * Danny Gallery, London\n1970: \"Galería Fedelta\", Roma * \"Sala Cultart\", Madrid * \"The Craftasman´s Gallery\", Sydney\n1971: \"The Craftasman´s Gallery\", Sydney \n1972: \"Sebert Art Gallery\", Sydney \n1973: \"Clarissa Richards Gallery\", Sydney \n1974: \"Woollahara Gallery\", Sydney \n1975: \"Sixty One Gallery\", London\n1976: \"Logis de Lancreau\", Angers, France * \"Centre d´art FranÇais\", París * \"Palais de L´europe\", Le touquet, \nFrance * \"State University\", Búfalo, U.S.A.* \" Exposición Internacional Grolla D´oro\", Venice\n(1º Premio:Medallade Oro) *\" Chicago International TradeExposition.\" In Celebration of America Bicentennial; \nNew York * \"Musee National Valleta,\" Malta * \" Calais Museo\";, France * \"Sixty One Gallery\", London\n1978: Milán, Italy * \" Hotel Ramada\", Geneva, Switzerland *\" Canning House\", London\n1979: Glasgow, Escocia * \"Canning House\", London * \" Spanish House\", London\n1981: \"Canning House\", London \n1986: \"Hansaç Agolani\", Oasis de Nazaret, Lanzarote \n1988: “La Galeria”, Teguise, Lanzarote\n1989: \"CajaSur\", 125 Aniversario, Jaén Spain\n2008: \"Balearic Islands expose\"\n\n\"Museo de Arte Contemporáneo\", Madrid, Spain\n\"National fine Arts Museum\", Malta \n\"Civic Museum\", Treviso, Italy \n\"Angers Museum\", France\n\"Round House University\", N.S.W. Australia \n\"Spanish Center\", Sidney, Australia \n\"State of New York University\" Búfalo, USA\n\"Quentovic Museum\", Le Touquet, France\n\"Grolla d Óro Mogliano Veneto,\" Villa Condulmer, Venice, Italy \n\"Musee d´Art et d´Histoire\", Geneva, Switzerland\n\"Residencia Rey Hussein\", London, England\n\"Museo Treviso\", Venice, Italy\n"}
{"id": "1651682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1651682", "title": "Kitbuqa", "text": "Kitbuqa\n\nKitbuqa Noyan (; died 1260) was a Nestorian Christian of the Mongolian Naiman tribe, a group that was subservient to the Mongol Empire. He was a lieutenant and confidant of the Mongol Ilkhan Hulagu, assisting him in his conquests in the Middle East. When Hulagu took the bulk of his forces back with him to attend a ceremony in Mongolia, Kitbuqa was left in control of Syria, and was responsible for further Mongol raids southwards towards Egypt. He was killed at the Battle of Ain Jalut in 1260.\n\nIn 1252, Möngke Khan ordered Kitbuqa to battle the fortresses of the Ismaili Nizaris. He advanced with Hulagu into western Persia, mounting a series of sieges, and commanded one of the flanks that sacked Baghdad, before assisting in the conquest of Damascus in 1260. Historical accounts, quoting from the writings of the medieval historian Templar of Tyre, would often describe the three Christian rulers (Hetoum I of Armenia, Bohemond VI of Antioch, and Kitbuqa) entering the city of Damascus together in triumph, though modern historians have characterized this story as apocryphal.\n\nWhen Hulagu Khan withdrew his forces, responding to internal events in the Mongol Empire (the death of Hulagu's brother, the Great Möngke Khan), Kitbuqa was left in charge of the Mongol army remaining in the Middle East:\n\nIn command of a force including 10,000 Mongol troops, Kitbuqa attempted to continue the Mongol advance towards Egypt. However, the Mamluks had negotiated a passive truce with the Crusaders, allowing the Mamluks to advance northwards through Crusader territory, and camp for resupply near the Crusader stronghold of Acre. In this way, the Mamluks were able to engage the depleted Mongol army near Galilee, at the pivotal Battle of Ain Jalut (spring of Goliath). The Mongols were defeated, and Kitbuqa was captured. When he was brought, bound, before the Mamluk sultan he was defiant, describing the Mongol vengeance that would befall the victors. He taunted the Mamluk emirs, saying how he had always been loyal to his master, whilst they had betrayed theirs. Kitbuqa was slaughtered at the hands of veteran Mamluk Jamal al-Din Akoush al-Shamsy.\n\nMamluk histories speak of Kitbuqa with respect, painting him as a great warrior who refused to retreat when the Mongols were clearly being overpowered at Ain Jalut, and who favored death in battle over retreat and shame. It was expected that Kitbuqa's death would be avenged by Hulagu, but an internal conflict between Hulagu and his cousin Berke of the Mongol Golden Horde prevented this from happening. Kitbuqa's death and the defeat of the Mongols at Ain Jalut marked the beginning of the end for the Westward expansion of the Mongol Empire. It was the first occasion they had been decisively defeated and failed to avenge such a loss, though the Mongols continued to invade Syria, Japan, India, Hungary, Poland and Southeast Asia for the next several decades.\n"}
{"id": "986434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986434", "title": "Krang", "text": "Krang\n\nKrang (also spelled Kraang) is a supervillain appearing in \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\"-related media, most frequently in the 1987 animated series and its associated merchandise, such as the \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Adventures\" comic book and most of the classic \"TMNT\" video games.\n\nKrang's first comics appearance was in \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Adventures\" vol. 1, #1, published by Archie Comics in August 1988. In the 1987 TV series, Krang was voiced by Pat Fraley. He is still one of the primary antagonists to the Ninja Turtles, appearing as General Krang in the 2012 IDW comic publication.\n\nThe character made his first live action appearance in the 2016 sequel, \"\", with his voice provided by Brad Garrett.\n\nKrang was created by David Wise, with inspirations for the Utrom, to supply Shredder with extraterrestrial technology.\n\nIn the 1987–1996 animated Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles TV series background story, Krang was originally a warlord from Dimension X who commanded an army of Rock Soldiers under the leadership of General Traag and Lieutenant Granitor. He took the completed Technodrome (a powerful mobile battle fortress) for himself, and then banished Drakus (who helped Krang build it) to Earth. Eventually, Krang would be banished from Dimension X as well, but not before being stripped of his body and reduced to a brain-like form. In the episode \"Invasion of the Krangazoids\" Krang clones himself, and his clones later evolved developing their own, reptiloid-like bodies.\n\nWhile on Earth, Krang allied himself with the Shredder who, along with his robotic Foot Soldier army, moved into the Technodrome. In exchange, the Shredder had to build a new body for Krang, a human-shaped exo-suit which the latter had designed. Shredder lived up to his part of the bargain in the season 1 episode \"Shredder and Splintered,\" in no small part because he was unable to deal with the Turtles himself and needed Krang's help. In the season 3 episode \"Shredderville\", the Turtles have a dream of a parallel world in which they never existed, and Shredder had no problem taking over the world; in the same dream, Shredder abandoned Krang after his conquest was complete, leaving him with no body and a heavily damaged Technodrome.\n\nKrang's ultimate goal is to rule all dimensions, including Earth. Every plan Krang conceives is either aimed at this goal, or towards the short-term objective of powering-up the Technodrome. He does not, however, share Shredder's obsessive hatred of the Turtles and Splinter. Instead, he seems to regard them as mere annoyances to be destroyed whenever they interfere with his plans. In earlier seasons, Krang's relationship with Shredder primarily consisted of resentment, distrust, and constant bickering about tactics, but from season eight onwards, they are much more cooperative with one another. There were many times that Shredder could have just left Krang at the mercy of the Turtles or Lord Dregg, but he always rescued him, and went as far as to donate his life energy to save him.\n\nKrang spends the first seven seasons in the Technodrome, either somewhere on Earth or in Dimension X, scheming to power up his battle fortress and take over the Earth. At the end of season 7, the Turtles banish the Technodrome back to Dimension X without Krang or Shredder, forcing them to work out of an old science building until they can build a new portal into Dimension X and reclaim it, which they eventually do. However, the Turtles follow them into Dimension X and destroy the main engines of the Technodrome, trapping it and its inhabitants in Dimension X forever and putting an end to Krang's plans.\n\nKrang spent the next two years in Dimension X until he was contacted by Dregg, who arranged for him and Shredder to come back to Earth to help him fight the Turtles. Together, they capture their enemies, but they betray Dregg and attempt to drain both him and the Turtles of their life energy. Dregg manages to escape, however, and captures Shredder and Krang with the help of his microbots. He then tries to drain the life energy of the Turtles, Krang, and Shredder all at once, making them weaker while Dregg becomes stronger. Shredder alone escapes the trap and restores Krang, but Dregg eventually captures them again. Finally, the Turtles spoil Dregg's plans and transport Shredder and Krang back to Dimension X, and they are not seen again for the rest of the series.\n\nIn the series finale, \"Divide and Conquer\", the Turtles return to the ruins of the Technodrome and take Krang's android body, which they need to fight Dregg. Krang is nowhere to be seen.\n\nIn the Archie Comics series, Krang was depicted as far more evil and wicked than in the animated series. He was said to have the blood of whole races on his hands, like Wingnut and Screwloose's home planet Huanu.\n\nIn the 2009 film \"Turtles Forever\", the later 2003 Turtles also encounter Krang, who eventually aids the turtles in defeating Utrom Shredder. The 2012 Turtles would face Krang themselves when he teamed up with the Kraang who served as their antagonists.\n\nKrang uses a powerful android body with a cockpit located in the torso. The primary purpose of this suit is for mobility and protection as Krang is vulnerable outside of the suit. Its abilities include hands which can shape-shift into a variety of weapons and communications devices. In later episodes, the suit seems to be modular as Krang is seen changing the suit's arms from a collection of items aboard the Technodrome; the suit has also been seen with jet wings in place of arms.\n\nKrang also occasionally employed a machine he referred to as a 'bubble walker' or just 'walker'. This device was primarily a set of mechanical legs attached to a platform with a transparent protective covering through which Krang could see, and holes for him to extend his tentacles through so that he could manipulate objects. This particular mode of transport was the version used for the first toy of Krang produced by the toy company Playmates. There were also two toys of Krang and his android body, one a large-scale figure and the other similar in size to (but out of scale with) the regular-sized figures. Both came with removable Krang figures.\n\nIn the Archie Comics version of \"TMNT\", Krang was shown to have the ability to completely attach his own body to the heads of other living things while they are unconscious and have full control of that being's body while attached, as seen when he attached himself to Shredder's unconscious body after a new ally of Krang's knocked Shredder out.\n\nIn the final season of the 1987 animated series, Krang showed signs of psychic powers when he hypnotized one of Lord Dregg's soldiers into obeying his and Shredder's commands, saying it would only work on weak willed people.\n\nKrang's physical appearance was inspired by the Utroms from the original TMNT comic book and in the 2003 animated series there is an Utrom named Krang. However, in the 1987 animated series, Krang is \"not\" stated to be an Utrom. There are several important differences:\n\n\nIn the 1987 animated series, Krang's natural physical shape may or may not be brain-like:\n\n\nThe Dan Berger run on the TMNT comic strip in the mid-1990s indicated that Krang was an Utrom criminal.\n\nWhile the Utrom race was not in any way featured in the 1987 animated series, other than Krang having a similar design, they would appear in the 2003 TMNT series. Krang of the 1987 universe comes face to face with the Utrom Shredder during \"Turtles Forever\" and was initially pleased with his resemblance to the Shredder's Utrom form.\n\nKrang is an Utrom in the IDW comic series.\n\nIn the IDW Comics Krang is both an Utrom and a denizen of Dimension X. He is the heir of Quanin, the former Prime Minister of the Utroms' ruling council who appointed himself Emperor and aggressively expanded the Utrom domain into an empire. However, his megalomanic expansion drive both deprived his homeplanet of its most essential natural rescource, the Ooze, and incited rebellion among the subjugated people of Dimension X, eventually leading to the destruction of Utrominon. Krang, who was as brutal as his father but opposed his uncautious politics, fled with a few survivors of his people through an interdimensional portal to Burnow Island on Earth, where he established a base from which he intended to terraform this world into a new home for his people.\n\nIn order to augment his troops, Krang, initially disguised as a despotic human warlord, forms a business relationship with Baxter Stockman, head of the genetics research institute \"Stock Gen\", and supplies him with Ooze, which could be used as a natural mutagen on Earth's organisms. It is through Stockman's experiments that the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and Splinter evolve into intelligent, humanoid mutants. When the Turtles learn of Krang's genocidal plans with the aid of their human friend April O'Neil, a former intern at \"Stock Gen\", they, their ally the Fugitoid (a former Neutrino scientist whose mind is trapped in a robot body and who was forcibly conscripted by Krang to complete his terraforming machine, the Technodrome), and the Foot Clan stop Krang from destroying the Earth, and the Utrom warlord is surrendered to the Neutrinos for trial for his numerous war crimes.\n\nWhile imprisoned on Neutrino, Kraang hires the bounty hunter Hakk-R to eliminate several material witnesses in order to get the trial cancelled, but Hakk-R fails thanks to the efforts of the Turtles. Eventually, Krang is found guilty and sentenced to permanent exile from Dimension X on Earth. However, Leatherhead, one of his former victims and a key witness in the trial, refuses to accept the mild verdict and kills Krang by devouring him.\n\nWhile he did not appear as a villain or major character in the 2003 series, there was an homage to Krang in the episode \"Secret Origins Part 3\". As the Utroms are walking to the transmat to go home one of them complains, \"I hate walking on my tentacles\". Then, another Utrom replies \"Oh, shut up, Krang!\". This Krang was voiced by Wayne Grayson.\n\nKrang also appears in the 2009 crossover film, \"Turtles Forever\", in which he, Shredder and the turtles from the 1987 show end up in the 2003 universe. Although Shredder was able to find his 2003 counterpart, he was unable to find Krang's, even though he exists in this universe (albeit as a regular, non-evil Utrom). Krang is voiced here by Bradford Cameron.\n\nAn alien species based on both Krang and the Utroms appear in the 2012 Nickelodeon show, named The Kraang as the secondary antagonists of seasons 1 and 2. \nNot unlike the Utroms in the Mirage comics and 2003 TV Series, they are portrayed as a race of brain-shaped aliens from Dimension X that pilot robotic bodies who were responsible for bringing the mutagen that was responsible for the Turtle's mutations to Earth. Most of them are voiced by Nolan North.\n\nAs revealed in \"The War for Dimension X\", they were once part of the peaceful Utrom race, until Kraang (voiced by Roseanne Barr in seasons 1 and 2, Rachel Butera in season 3), an Utrom scientist, discovered the mutagen, which is milked from giant native worms called Kraathatrogons, and used it to enlarge himself while gaining psychic powers. Kraang, referring to himself as Kraang Prime, used his power to subjugate most of his species by copying his mind into theirs. The affected Utrom come to be known as the Kraang as they and Kraang Sub-Prime (voiced by Gilbert Gottfried), an Utrom who willingly swore loyalty to Kraang Prime, work to infiltrate and mutate other worlds. Among their targeted worlds is the Earth, setting up TCRI and World Wide Genome Project as fronts to collect the DNA of every animal and plant species on Earth. The Kraangs' history became intertwined with the Turtles when they caught the then-human Hanmoto Yoshi spying on them and fought him while he was holding the not-yet-mutated Turtles, causing them to mutate when one of the Kraang accidentally dropped a mutagen canister, breaking it and spilling the mutagen on them.\n\nWhen the mutated turtles went to the surface world 15 years later in \"Rise of the Turtles,\" they came face-to-face again with the Kraang when they were attempting to kidnap April O'Neil and saved her while her psychologist father Kirby O'Neil was taken captive. In the \"Gauntlet,\" managing to defuse a mutagen bomb placed on the roof of the Wolf Hotel, the turtles learn from Kirby that the Kraang are using various scientists to stabilize the mutagen to their use of it on Earth. But as revealed in \"It Came from the Depths,\" the power cell needed for the Kraang's portal between Dimension X and Earth was stolen by Leatherhead six months prior before they eventually reclaimed it in \"The Pulverizer\". In \"TCRI,\" destroying the portal with Leatherhead's help, the turtles learn the Kraang's plans for terraforming Earth and that they are also after April.\n\nIn the aftermath of \"Enemy of My Enemy,\" one of the Kraang ended up in Foot custody as Shredder interrogated it in \"Karai's Vendetta\" to why its kind are after the Turtles. When a plan to steal mutagen from TCRI goes array in \"The Pulverizer Returns,\" Shredder decides to form an alliance with the Kraang. In \"Operation: Break Out\" and \"Booyaka-Showndown\", placing a mind-control chip on Kirby, Kraang engineered his \"escape\" with the aid of the Turtles to have him deliver April to Shredder so he can use her to lure Splinter out. Once that phase is complete, Shredder hands April to the Kraang, who proceed to use the repaired portal to bring one of their Technodrones to Earth, though the Turtles subsequently succeeded in destroying the TCRI building. Kraang Prime proceeds to drain April's unique mental energy to aid the terraforming process. However, the Turtles interfered in this plan, and the Technodrone was subsequently brought down off the coast of New York City, though it was revealed to be intact and partially active.\n\nThe Kraang continued to pose a threat throughout the second season, briefly maintaining an alliance with the Foot in which they provide them with robotic ninja soldiers and attempt to provide them with mutagen so that they can create mutants to destroy the Turtles. However, their partnership was dissolved after a number of incidents, including the Turtles intercepting a load of mutagen, which was subsequently scattered over the city and their robot creation Chrome Dome defying Karai's orders to kill April, as the Kraang still wished to capture her.\nIn \"The Kraang Conspiacy,\" it was subsequently revealed by a private investigator, Jack Kurtzman, who had been investigating the disappearances of Kirby O'Neil and the other scientists who the Kraang had kidnapped, that this is because the Kraang have been preparing to terraform Earth for centuries, altering human DNA until they could create a perfect human-Kraang hybrid: April. In their efforts to utilize her, the Kraang create a number of clones of April, including a misshapen failure dubbed \"April Derp\" by Mikey; all of these clones were subsequently destroyed by April and the Turtles, with the \"April Derp\" destroyed when April released a physic blast.\n\nIn \"Metalhead Rewired,\" the Kraang initiate a plot to capture the various mutants inhabiting New York and enslave them with special control devices. They succeeded in rounding up a number of mutants and imprisoning them in a facility in a pocket dimension, but the location was discovered by Metalhead and the Turtles. They briefly used Snakeweed and Spider Bytez against the Turtles, but Metalhead freed them and the other mutants, who escaped back to New York along with the Turtles.\n\nIn \"The Manhattan Project,\" the Turtles become focused on a Kraang plot in which the Kraang brought some Kraathatrogons to New York. When the Turtles attempt to thwart their plans, they and the Kraang end up battling beneath New York and in the Kraang's interdimensional portal network. In the end, the Turtles are able to send the Kraathatrogons back into the portal network, with one of them that ate Shredder's new right hand Tiger Claw ending up in the universe of the 1987 Ninja Turtles animated series, where the rampaging creature came under attack by the 1987 version of the Turtles before Tiger Claw ripped his way out of it, and after fighting against them eventually made it back to the 2012 universe.\n\nIn \"Into Dimension X,\" the Kraang have finally perfected the mutagen, but the Turtles were secretly warned about this success by Leatherhead through a Kraang Communication Orb. After finding their way into Dimension X and traveling to the Kraang's home fortress, which was being guarded by Traag and Granitor, the Turtles rescued Leatherhead and helped him stop the Kraang from dumping the perfected mutagen into Earth's dimension through multiple portals.\n\nIn \"The Invasion,\" the Foot Clan finally made a full alliance with the Kraang to draw out and destroy the Turtles in exchange in helping them invade the city, which the Kraang did through various spies; the character Irma Langenstein is discovered to be the robotic housing of one such spy, Kraang Sub-Prime, who was eventually defeated by Splinter. Having perfected the mutagen in a previous episode, they began using it to \"Kraang-form\" New York, turning humans and their environs into creatures and structures reminiscent of Dimension X. The Turtles, Leatherhead, Splinter, April, and Casey briefly attempted to fight them off, but despite the aid of the new Turtle-Mech created by Donatello they were forced to retreat after a battle with Kraang Prime. Kraang Prime also claimed that the Kraang were responsible for the existence of humanity, who supposedly developed after the Kraang exposed monkeys to mutagen.\n\nIn \"Buried Secrets,\" the Turtles discovered a Kraang ship beneath April's family farmhouse, where her great-grandfather supposedly discovered it and the Kraang inside, leading to generations of experimentation on the deceased relatives on April's mother's side of the O'Neil family until culminating in experiments they performed on her mother. They also discovered a clone of April's mother who was sealed in the ship due to being unstable, and managed to defeat her.\n\nIn \"Return to New York,\" the Turtles returned to find the city under the control of the Kraang, with all but a handful of humans-including the Earth Protection Force-being either mutated or fitted with mind control devices. The Kraang are shown to control New York's streets, with any humans caught out in the open being captured and mutated. They also placed a security drone in the Turtles' lair to prevent them from occupying it again. These security measures force the Turtles to act with caution throughout much of the following arc, and in \"Serpent Hunt\" prompt Anton Zeck and Ivan Steranko to seek to make a deal with the Shredder to get themselves out of the city. Their attempt to do so through capturing Shredder's adopted daughter Karai and holding her for ransom lead to their mutation into Bebop and Rocksteady after Karai escapes due to the Turtles' interference.\n\nIn \"Battle for New York,\" the Turtles's confrontation with the Kraang for the city occurred when they are unexpectedly joined by the Mighty Mutanimals, a rebel team of mutants. The two teams manage to thwart a Kraang plot to launch a mutagen missile, and then launch an attack on the Kraang portal so that the Turtles can infiltrate Dimension X and cure and free the mutated humans. This leads them to another confrontation with Kraang Sub-Prime, who follows the Turtles to Dimension X while the Mutanimals fight to capture and hold the portal. After battling Kraang forces on both sides of the gateway, the two groups of mutants succeed in teleporting the cured humans back to Earth while sending the Kraang back to Dimension X, putting a halt to the invasion for the time being.\n\n\"The Fourfold Trap\" involves a mind-controlled Karai using the idea of the Kraang having returned to Earth as a trap to lure in and capture several of the Turtles. The Kraang would later return in truth during \"Dinosaurs Seen in Sewers!\" attempting to open another portal and bring a fleet of Technodromes to Earth. Their various operations were decimated when Zog, an advance scout for the Triceratons-sworn enemies of the Kraang-attacked them, causing considerable havoc despite being nitrogen-poisoned and lacking his equipment. After encountering Zog, the Turtles joined in his efforts, unaware that he planned to alert the Triceraton armada of Earth's location so that they could destroy it and wipe out the Kraang. The Kraang's plans to open a portal were thwarted, and the signal reached the other Triceratons without difficulty.\n\nIn \"Annihilation Earth\" the Turtles learn of the existence of the Utrom Tribe, a splinter group of the Kraang, from a member who goes by the name of Bishop, who is responsible for the design of the Kraangdroid bodies. He informs them that the Triceratons are approaching Earth, and also that the first Technodrome the Kraang brought to Earth has nearly been fully repaired. The Turtles and their allies launch an all-out assault on the Technodrome in an effort to bring it down that leads to several of them being captured and being brought before Kraang Prime and Sub-Prime, both of whom are present on the ship. Unfortunately, right as the rest of the team arrives to liberate their comrades, the Triceratons arrive in Earth's orbit and attack. The Kraang deploy stealth ships to engage the attacking Triceraton fighters, but they are easily shot down. The Triceratons then destroy the Technodrome with Kraangs Prime and Sub-Prime aboard with no apparent time or means with which to escape. After being captured by the Triceratons, Mikey then reveals knowledge of all the Kraang hiding places in Dimension X; however, in \"Beyond the Known Universe\" the Turtles travel back in time to six months earlier in an effort to prevent the Triceratons from attacking Earth using the Black Hole Generator, which the Kraang previously used to destroy the Triceraton homeworld.\n\nIn \"The War for Dimension X\", the turtles learn the origins of the Kraang as they meet the Utrom council that consists of Bishop, Pawn, Queen, and Rook; Kraang Sub-Prime was once the group's Knight and the greatest Utrom hero until he betrayed them to join the Kraang. In this altered past, Kraang Sub-Prime captures the Salamandrians after they approach the Kraang about forming an alliance against the Triceratons, having learned that they are friends of the Turtles. He then tracks the arriving Turtles to the Utrom base, where he captures Queen and takes her back to his Sub-Command Center. The Utrom then declare war on Kraang Sub-Prime's facility and are joined by the Turtles, Professor Honeycutt, and the Salamandrians. Despite possessing a Dracodroid, Kraang Sub-Prime's forces are defeated and he loses a duel to Bishop, before having the damaged cyborg dragon crash into him and explode.\n\nIn \"Trans-Dimensional Turtles,\" the 1987 version of Krang is revealed to be a Kraang who was banished from Dimension X because he was the least intelligent member according to Kraang Sub-Prime. When Sub-Prime learns that Krang was planning to wipe out the 2012, 1987, and Mirage Comics universes rather than enslave and mutate the inhabitants, he knocks Krang back to the 1987 universe before the 2012 and the 1987 Turtles temporarily defeat him by sending him to the Mirage Comics universe.\n\nIn \"Earth's Last Stand\" it was revealed that Kraang Sub-Prime purchased the Black Hole Generator from Professor Honeycutt, who later came to regret his decision after he learned what the Kraang intended to do with it. The events previously seen in \"Annihilation Earth\" later played out in virtually identical fashion up until the future Turtles and their allies arrived to stop the Triceratons. As such, it can be presumed that the Technodrome was once again destroyed, though the fate of Kraang Sub-Prime and Kraang Prime is uncertain.\n\nKrang frequently appears in TMNT games as either a final boss or the penultimate boss, as the final boss before fighting Shredder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12779528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12779528", "title": "List of Snaefell Mountain Course fatalities", "text": "List of Snaefell Mountain Course fatalities\n\nThis list is of fatal accidents on the Snaefell Mountain Course during the Isle of Man TT and Manx Grand Prix races. The Snaefell Mountain Course was first used as a road-racing circuit for the 1908 Tourist Trophy event for racing automobiles, then-known as the Four Inch Course. For the 1911 TT motorcycle races the event was moved from the St. John's Short Course to the Four Inch Course by the Auto-Cycle Club and subsequently became known as the Snaefell Mountain Course or Mountain Course when used for motorcycle racing.\n\nVictor Surridge was the first fatality on the Snaefell Mountain Course, after an accident at Glen Helen during practice for the 1911 TT. This was possibly the first death in the Isle of Man of a person in a motorcycle or road vehicle accident. The deadliest year for the Snaefell Mountain Course was 2005, when 11 people in total died during the two main racing events there. Four people (three riders and one marshal) died during that year's TT race period in June, and six riders and one spectator died during the Manx Grand Prix in August/September. The deadliest year for the TT period was 1970, when six people died during the event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49324951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49324951", "title": "Margaret Courtenay (actress)", "text": "Margaret Courtenay (actress)\n\nMargaret Courtenay (14 November 1923 – 15 February 1996) was a British actress best known for her British theatre roles during the 1970s and 1980s. She was a member of the Royal Shakespeare Company.\n\nIn 1976, Courtenay won the Laurence Olivier Award for Supporting Artist of the Year for her stage role in the play \"Separate Tables\", by author Terence Rattigan, directed by Michael Blakemore, at the Apollo Theatre in London's West End.\n\nCourtenay retired at Denville Hall, a retirement home for professional actors set in Northwood in the London Borough of Hillingdon. She died of cancer on 15 February 1996 at age 72.\n\n"}
{"id": "38317679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38317679", "title": "Marxist humanism", "text": "Marxist humanism\n\nMarxist humanism is a branch of Marxism that primarily focuses on Marx's earlier writings, especially the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\" in which Marx espoused his theory of alienation, as opposed to his later works, which are considered to be concerned more with his structural conception of capitalist society. The Praxis School, which called for radical social change in Josip Broz Tito's Yugoslavia in the 1960s, was one such Marxist humanist movement.\n\nMarxist humanism was opposed by the \"antihumanism\" of Marxist philosopher Louis Althusser, who described it as a revisionist movement.\n\nThe term \"Marxist humanism\" and the notion of alienation remains a part of Marx's philosophy. Teodor Shanin and Raya Dunayevskaya go further, asserting that not only is alienation present in the late Marx, but that there is no split between the young Marx and mature Marx.\n\nThe early Marx, influenced by Feuerbach's humanistic inversion of Hegelian idealism, articulated a concept of species-being, according to which man's essential nature is that of a free producer, freely reproducing their own conditions of life. However, under capitalism individuals are alienated from their productive activity insofar as they are compelled to sell their labor-power as a commodity to a capitalist; their sensuous life-activity, or labor, thus appears to them as something objective, a commodity to be bought and sold like any other. Thus, to overcome alienation and allow humankind to realize its species-being, the wage-labor system must be transcended, and the separation of the laborer from the means of labor abolished.\n\nThe most potent criticism of Marxist Humanism has come from within the Marxist movement. Louis Althusser, the French Structuralist Marxist, criticises Marxist Humanists for not recognising the dichotomy between 'Young Marx' and 'Mature Marx'. Althusser believes Marx's thought to be marked by a radical epistemological break. For Althusser, the humanism of Marx's early writings—influenced by Hegel and Feuerbach—is fundamentally incongruous with the \"scientific\", structure-concerned theory found in Marx's mature works such as \"Das Kapital\". Of the Marxist Humanist's reliance on the 1844 \"Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts\" Althusser writes, \"We do not publish our own drafts, that is, our own mistakes, but we do sometimes publish other people's\" (cited in Gregory Elliot's \"introduction: In the Mirror of Machiavelli\" an introduction for Althusser's \"Machiavelli and us\", p. xi).\n\nHumanists argue that ‘Marxism’ developed lopsidedly because Marx's early works were unknown until after the orthodox ideas were in vogue—the Manuscripts of 1844 were published only in 1932—and to understand his latter works properly it is necessary to understand Marx's philosophical foundations. However, Althusser does not defend latter Marx's determinism; using it as a vehicle to introduce an analysis of ideological hegemony and conditioning within class societies, through the concept of Ideological State Apparatuses (ISA) and interpellation which seek to condition the identity of the subject within class society.\n\nNotable thinkers associated with Marxist humanism include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1049719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1049719", "title": "Michael Spilotro", "text": "Michael Spilotro\n\nMichael Peter \"Micky\" Spilotro (September 12, 1944 – June 14, 1986) was the younger brother of Anthony \"Tony the Ant\" Spilotro and was an associate of the Chicago organized crime organization referred to as \"The Outfit\".\n\nMichael was born in Chicago, Illinois, on September 12, 1944. He was the son of Pasquale Spilotro, Sr. (1899–1954), a restaurant owner, and his wife, Antoinette. Michael had five brothers, Vincent, Victor, Pasquale \"Pat,\" Jr., Tony and John. He stood at 5' 6\" and no one ever called him \"Mike\" only \"Michael\".\n\nHe attended Burbank Elementary School in Austin, Chicago, and entered Charles P. Steinmetz Academic Centre in 1953 with his brothers Victor, Vincent, Anthony and Pasquale. Michael attended (what is now) Providence St. Mel School in East Garfield Park, Chicago from 1958 to 1962.\n\nHis parents, Pasquale Spilotro, Sr. (who emigrated from Triggiano, Italy and arrived at Ellis Island in 1914) and Antoinette Spilotro (who was a domineering mother), owned Patsy's Restaurant. Unlike most Italian immigrants who settled in \"The Patch,\" (located around Grand and Western Avenues), the Spilotros lived at 2152 North Melvina Avenue in Austin, Chicago.\n\nMobsters such as Salvatore \"Sam\" Giancana, Jackie \"The Lackey\" Cerone, Gus Alex and Frank Nitti (\"Frank the Enforcer\") regularly dined at Patsy's, which was on the west side at Grand and Ogden Avenues, using its parking lot for mob meetings. Patsy's was a small place famous for its homemade meatballs that attracted people from all over town including Anthony Accardo, Paul Ricca, Sam Giancana, Gus Alex and Jackie Cerone.\n\nIn 1954, Pasquale, Sr. suffered a fatal aneurysm and died at the age of fifty-five.\n\nHis brother Anthony would later drop out during his sophomore year and transfer to a trade school with Frank Cullotta. It is thought that Michael dropped out of school shortly after his brother Anthony to follow in Anthony's footsteps.\n\nMichael's brother, Pasquale, became an oral surgeon and dentist in the Chicago area, and Vincent lived a law-abiding life.\n\nTony, John and Victor became criminals like Michael. As a child he and his brothers grew up in a two-story wooden bungalow just a few blocks from Frank Rosenthal's childhood home.\n\nMichael spoke in a dapper Chicago accent and pronounced his vowels flat.\n\nHe was married to Anne Spilotro and father to Michelle Spilotro Capozzoli, Paula Spilotro, and Michael Spilotro Jr.(born 1978).\n\nHe had once been arrested for aggravated assault with Rocco Lombardo, the younger brother of future mob boss Joseph Lombardo and Peter Schivarelli, a former Notre Dame University football player, but the trio had been acquitted.\n\nSpilotro's wife and daughter would later testify in 2007 for the prosecution regarding the Spilotro Brothers' involvement with James Marcello.\n\nIn 2007, Anne Spilotro testified at the Family Secrets trial about how she reached out to mob boss James Marcello for help and allegedly was swindled after selling her husband's Chicago restaurant to state Democratic Senator James DeLeo and attorney James Banks, the nephew of Chicago's 36th Ward Alderman William Banks. Upon hearing the allegations, DeLeo expressed amazement at her complaint to reporters. DeLeo said he and James Banks converted the restaurant into a pizza parlor that later failed.\n\nMichael was friends with actor Robert Conrad and through Conrad, also became close friends with Robert's fellow Hollywood actor Larry Manetti (one of the supporting stars of \"Magnum P.I.\") and his wife Nancy DeCarl. In a 2008 interview, Conrad described the late Chicago Mob associate and burglar Michael Spilotro as his \"best friend\".\n\nMichael first met Robert Conrad in May 1954, when Robert was only 19 years old. At the time Conrad had eloped with a lawyer's daughter and lied about his age to gain employment as a longshoreman down at the Chicago waterfront. He was later fired in December of that year for handing out a petition to have his union steward fired. The two remained close and Michael later appeared as a stick-up man in Conrad's TV series \"The Duke\" in 1979. On the Internet Movie Database (IMDb) website, Michael is labeled as a dramatic actor. Through Conrad he became close with actors Patrick Wayne, Dennis Hopper and Nick Adams. He later was featured in \"Will: The Autobiography of G. Gordon Liddy\" released in 1982, and with Tom Selleck in the first season of the TV series \"Magnum, P.I.\", in the episode 12 entitled \"Thicker Than Blood\" as an armed federal marshall.\n\nAfter moving to Las Vegas, shortly before his death, Michael helped run The Goldrush Ltd. with Anthony and his other brother John who worked as a bookmaker. Michael soon became involved in bookmaking, drug dealing, prostitution, robbery, and extortion. Through his relationship with Larry Manetti he had connections in the Plaza Hotel & Casino when it was under the ownership of the Barrick Gaming Corporation. Lifelong friend and fellow actor Larry Manetti told reporters from The Chicago Tribune during the Family Trial, \"I didn't know Michael was a gangster. I knew him as a guy I grew up with in the neighborhood. Michael wanted to be on TV, that's all. Who wouldn't... He was trying to be a movie star or an actor, he was having fun.\" Manetti commented to reporters about Michael's acting ability stating, \"He was OK as an actor, he wasn't so stiff.\" It is unknown if Michael approached any movie production studios for acting jobs, but his performances on television were said to be given \"two-thumbs down\" by critics. Robert Conrad attended funerals of the Spilotro's family, and made no effort to hide his appearances from the press there. There was no attempt on the part of either Robert Conrad or Larry Manetti to attend the funerals of Anthony or Michael. He didn't appear publicly with either brother even when they were alive. Conrad attempted to keep his association sub rosa also and when he struck the jackpot at Anthony Spilotro's Monte Carlo restaurant he quickly left before attention could be drawn.\n\nSpilotro, in 1976, formed a burglary ring with his brother Anthony and Herbert Blitzstein, utilizing about eight associates as burglars. The crew became known as the Hole in the Wall Gang because of its penchant for gaining entry by drilling through the exterior walls and ceilings of the buildings they burglarized. The Hole in the Wall Gang operated out of The Gold Rush, Ltd.\n\nOther gang members included his younger brother John Paul Spilotro, Polish-American brothers Peanuts Pancsko, Butch Pancsko and Pops Pancsko, Frank DeLegge, Michael LaJoy, Joseph D'Argento, Gerald Tomasczek, Peter Basile of Wilmette, Illinois, Carl Urbanotti of Chicago, Illinois, Ernest Lehnigg of Addison, Illinois, Samuel Cusumano, Joseph Cusumano, Ernesto \"Ernie\" Davino, 34, Las Vegas, \"Crazy Larry\" Neumann, Wayne Matecki, Salvatore \"Sonny\" Romano, Leonardo \"Leo\" Guardino, 47, Las Vegas, Frank Cullotta, 43, Las Vegas, and former Las Vegas Sheriff's Department Detective, Joseph Blasko, 45, Las Vegas, who acted as a lookout and who later worked as a bartender at the Crazy Horse Too, a gentleman's club, and died of a heart attack in 2002.[5]\n\nFollowing the botched burglary at Bertha's Household Products on July 4, 1981, Cullotta, Blasko, Guardino, Davino, Neumann, and Matecki were arrested and each charged with burglary, conspiracy to commit burglary, attempted grand larceny and possession of burglary tools. They were locked into the Las Vegas police department's holding cell in downtown Las Vegas. The only members of Spilotro's gang not arrested for the July 4 burglary were Blitzstein, Michael Spilotro, Romano and Cusumano. Meanwhile, Cullotta had turned state's witness, testifying against Anthony and to a lesser extent Michael Spilotro. But the testimony was insufficient, and Tony was acquitted.\n\nBy 1983, Michael was the main point of contact for mobster Joey Lombardo, in Chicago. Michael probably would have become a \"made member\" of the Outfit if his brother Tony had not ended up in trouble with the organization. In the end, the Outfit bosses allegedly decided to kill both brothers.\n\nOn June 14, 1986, the bodies of Michael and Tony Spilotro were uncovered from a cornfield near rural Morocco, Indiana. The two brothers had been severely beaten, strangled, and then buried in shallow graves. Dr. John Pless, a forensic pathologist who helped conduct the autopsies on Michael and Anthony, stated, \"Michael Spilotro's Adam's apple was fractured, his nose was broken and kidney was torn,\" and \"there was so much bleeding, almost [his] entire right lung was filled with blood\". Their brother Pasquale Jr. could only identify them with the help of dental records. Spilotro's black Cadillac Deville was later found at a Schiller Park Howard Johnson's motel parking lot.\n\nOn September 27, 2007, a jury in U.S. District Court found longtime Chicago mob boss James Marcello guilty in the Spilotro brothers' murders. In February 2009, Marcello was sentenced to life in prison for the murders. The killings were ordered by Angelo J. LaPietra \"The Hook\" who was one of the top bosses for the Outfit and controlled the 26th Street Crew (AKA Chinatown Crew) from a local social club on 26th Street. Frank Calabrese and John Fecarotta were given the go ahead and developed a crew of several men for the contract.\n\nVincent Spilotro, the son of Tony and nephew of Michael, stated during the media coverage of the Family Secrets trial that his uncle Michael Spilotro had actually been the main target of the executions after angering Outfit leadership, and that his brother Tony was only killed to prevent later revenge actions. The veracity of his statements was not commented on by the jury, attorneys or others, although this scenario, in light of both Spilotro's earlier (and unauthorized by the Outfit) activities in Las Vegas, is probably unlikely.\n\nThe character Dominick \"Dom\" Santoro in the 1995 film \"Casino\" is based on Michael Spilotro, and played by Philip Suriano. Dominick is shown assisting his older brother Nicky and his crew in beating up a man outside of a bar, spitting in a police officer's sandwich, and later shooting up a cop's home in revenge for the death of a crew member. In the infamous cornfield scene at the film's climax, Dominick is the first of the brothers to be brutally beaten by Frank Marino and the rest of their crew while Nicky is forced to watch. When Nicky pleads for Dominick's life, Marino spitefully lands two particularly vicious blows to Dominick's head, leaving Dominick only barely conscious as he is thrown into the hole to be buried alive with Nicky moments later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23126535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23126535", "title": "MissingNo.", "text": "MissingNo.\n\n, also known as MISSINGNO. or MissingNO, short for \"Missing Number\", is an unofficial Pokémon species found in the video games \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\". Due to the programming of certain in-game events, players can encounter MissingNo via a glitch.\n\nEncountering MissingNo causes graphical errors and the mass replication of the sixth item in the player's item menu; the latter effect resulted in the glitch's coverage by strategy guides and game magazines. IGN has noted MissingNo's appearance in \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" as one of the most famous video game glitches. Fans of the series have attempted to rationalize MissingNo as part of the games' canon, and sociologists have studied its impact on players.\n\nDeveloped by Game Freak and published by Nintendo, the \"Pokémon\" series began in Japan in 1996. The player assumes the role of a Pokémon Trainer whose goal is to capture and train creatures called Pokémon. Players use the creatures' special abilities to combat other Pokémon, and certain abilities also grant new ways to navigate the game's world, such as instantaneous travel between two areas.\n\nNintendo of America first documented the events that cause MissingNo to appear in the May 1999 issue of \"Nintendo Power\", with a warning that \"any contact with it (even if you don't catch it) could easily erase your game file or disrupt your graphics\". The glitch is the result of a succession of events: first, players watch an in-game tutorial for Pokémon capture. The player then uses a Pokémon with the Fly move to reach the game's Cinnabar Island location, and then uses a Pokémon with the Surf move to travel up and down the eastern shore of the island until a MissingNo appears.\n\nEncountering a MissingNo Pokémon is the result of a sequence of unintended events. The first is the game's random battle encounter system; each area assigns values to Pokémon in a data buffer, which the game accesses for the player's encounters with wild Pokémon. However, the locations Cinnabar Island and the Seafoam Islands do not assign data to this buffer—the information from the previously visited area is used instead. The second factor is the in-game tutorial, which temporarily stores the player's name in the data buffer. This causes the game to access the hexadecimal values of the player's name for Pokémon encounters at Cinnabar and Seafoam Islands, triggering a battle with a nonexistent Pokémon.\n\nAs with any wild Pokémon, players may flee from, fight or capture MissingNo. After an encounter with MissingNo, the quantity of the sixth item in the player's item menu is usually increased by a large amount and the game's Hall of Fame Pokémon gallery becomes permanently glitched. Temporary graphical glitches may also occur, which can be removed by viewing the statistics page for another non-glitched Pokémon or resetting the console. A captured MissingNo is a fully functional Pokémon, and appears in the game's Pokémon index as number 000. All MissingNo possess consistent abilities, type, statistics, and sounds. The Pokémon commonly appears as a scrambled \"d\"-shape, but certain encounter values cause it to appear as one of three sprites not used by other Pokémon.\n\nWhile it only appeared in the first few games of the series, MissingNo has had a significant impact. Calling it a \"programming quirk\", Nintendo warned against encountering it, claiming players could possibly have to restart the game from the beginning to remove the graphical glitches. Despite Nintendo's warning, information on how to encounter MissingNo was printed in several magazines and player's guides due to its perceived positive effect. Certain players attempted to sell tips on capturing MissingNo for up to $200. Despite it not being an intentional part of the game, in 2009, IGN included MissingNo in its list of the top video game Easter eggs, citing its usefulness in replicating the game's rarer items. IGN stated in a related article, \"It really says something about Pokémon fans that they took what is a potentially game-ruining glitch and used it as a shortcut to level up their Pokémon,\" and later called it an \"unforgettable\" glitch that helped push the original games to \"gaming super stardom\".\n\nPlayers' reactions to MissingNo have been the subject of sociological studies. Sociologist William Sims Bainbridge stated that Game Freak created \"one of the most popular glitches ever in game history\", and cited its creative usage by players. In the book \"Pikachu's Global Adventure: The Rise and Fall of Pokémon\", professor of education Julian Sefton-Green noticed that in his study of his son's reaction to MissingNo's usage as a cheat, the child's outlook towards the game was altered drastically, and added that the presence of such elements as a result broke the illusion of the game as an enclosed world and reminded him that \"at heart, it is a computer program\". The book \"Playing with Videogames\" contains an in-depth study of MissingNo, which details players' curiosity when encountering the Pokémon. It describes their tendency to compare notes on its appearance, and to give assessment and critique to each other's findings. The book states that, in their attempts to interpret MissingNo as part of the series's narrative through fan art and fiction, Pokémon communities celebrated the game's imperfections and tried to imprint themselves on its canon. The author described these circumstances as unique to MissingNo, and called its popularity an unusual case.\n\n"}
{"id": "4887923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4887923", "title": "Old Tom (killer whale)", "text": "Old Tom (killer whale)\n\nOld Tom ( 1895 – 17 September 1930) was a killer whale (orca) known to whalers in the port of Eden on the southeast coast of Australia. Old Tom measured 22 feet (6.7 m) and weighed 6 tons, with a 1.02 m skull and teeth about 5.31 inches (13.4 cm) long. Old Tom was thought to be the leader of a pod of killer whales which helped the whalers by herding baleen whales into Twofold Bay. The whalers then allowed the killer whales to eat the tongues and lips as their share of the kill, a practice known as the \"Law of the Tongue\".\n\nOn 17 September 1930, Old Tom was found dead in Twofold Bay. Before his death, he had been thought to be over 90 years old. Examination of his teeth indicated he died around age 35, but this method of age determination is now believed to be inaccurate for older animals.\n\nOld Tom's bones were preserved and his skeleton is now on display in the Eden Killer Whale Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23275563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23275563", "title": "Oliver Burgham", "text": "Oliver Burgham\n\nOliver Ruck Burgham (1885–1967) was a British professional rugby league footballer of the 1900s and 1910s. Born in Gloucestershire, he played at representative level for Great Britain, and Wales, and at club level for Gloucester, Ebbw Vale, and Halifax, as a , or , i.e. number 8 or 10, or 9, during the era of contested scrums. He played at Halifax until the outbreak of the First World War.\n\nOliver Burgham won caps for Wales while at Ebbw Vale in 1908 against New Zealand, and England, and won a cap for Great Britain while at Halifax in 1911 against Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "45684913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45684913", "title": "Plant cognition", "text": "Plant cognition\n\nPlant cognition is the study of the mental capacities of plants. It explores the idea that plants are capable of responding to and learning from stimuli in their surroundings in order to choose and make decisions that are most appropriate to ensure survival. Over recent years, experimental evidence for the cognitive nature of plants has grown rapidly and has revealed the extent to which plant perceptual awareness of environmental information directs many behavioural feats and associated cognitive abilities. Some research claims that plants have physical structures functioning in the same way as the nervous systems of animals.\n\nThe idea of cognition in plants was first explored by Charles Darwin in the late 1800s. In the book \"The Power of Movement in Plants\" written together with his son Francis, he used a neurological metaphor to acknowledge the sensitivity of plant roots when he proposed that the tip of roots acts like the brain of some animals, even though plants neither possess actual brains nor nerves. \n\nIrrespective of whether this neurological metaphor is correct or, more generally, the modern application of neuroscience terminology and concepts to plants is appropriate, the Darwinian idea of the root tip of plants functioning as a \"brain-like\" organ (together with the so-called \"root-brain hypothesis\") has experienced an ongoing revival in plant physiology.\n\nWhile plant \"neurobiology\" focuses on the physiological study of plants, modern plant cognition primarily applies a behavioural/ecological approach. Today, plant cognition is emerging as an exciting field of research directed at experimentally testing the cognitive abilities of plants, including perception, learning processes, memory and consciousness. This framework holds considerable implications for the way we perceive plants as it redefines the traditionally held boundary between animals and plants.\n\nIn 2003, Anthony Trewavas led a study to see how the roots interact with one another and study their signal transduction methods. He was able to draw similarities between water stress signals in plants affecting developmental changes and signal transductions in neural networks causing responses in muscle. Particularly, when plants are under water stress, there are abscisic acid dependent and independent effects on development. This brings to light further possibilities of plant decision-making based on its environmental stresses. The integration of multiple chemical interactions show evidence of the complexity in these root systems.\n\nIn 2012, Paco Calvo Garzón and Fred Keijzer speculated that plants exhibited structures equivalent to (1) action potentials (2) neurotransmitters and (3) synapses. Also, they stated that a large part of plant activity takes place underground, and that the notion of a 'root brain' was first mooted by Charles Darwin in 1880. Free movement was not necessarily a criterion of cognition, they held. The authors gave five conditions of minimal cognition in living beings, and concluded that 'plants are cognitive in a minimal, embodied sense that also applies to many animals and even bacteria.' In 2017 biologists from University of Birmingham announced, that they found decision-making center in \"Arabidopsis\".\n\nIn 2014, Anthony Trewavas released a book called \"Plant Behavior and Intelligence\" that highlighted a plant's cognition through its colonial-organization skills reflecting insect swarm behaviors. This organizational skill reflects the plants ability to interact with its surroundings to improve its survivability, and a plant's ability to identify exterior factors. Evidence of the plant's minimal cognition of spacial awareness can be seen in their root allocation in regards to neighboring plants. The organization of these roots have been found to originate from the root tip of plants.\n\nIn 2016, a research team led by Professor Monica Gagliano from the University of Western Australia’s Centre for Evolutionary Biology set out to test whether plants learn to respond to predicted events in their environment. The research demonstrated that plants were capable of learning the association between the occurrence of one event and the anticipation of another event (i.e. Pavlovian learning). By experimentally demonstrating associative learning in plants, this finding qualified plants as proper subjects of cognitive research.\n\nOn the other hand, Dr. Crisp and his colleagues proposed a different view on plant memory in their review: plant memory could be advantageous under recurring and predictable stress; however, resetting or forgetting about the brief period of stress may be more beneficial for plants to grow as soon as the desirable condition returns. \n\nThe idea of plant cognition is a source of debate.\n\nAmadeo Alpi and 35 other scientists published an article in 2007 titled “Plant Neurobiology: No brain, No gain?” in \"Trends in Plant Science\". In this article, they argue that since there is no evidence for the presence of neurons in plants, the idea of plant neurobiology and cognition is unfounded and needs to be redefined. In response to this article, Francisco Calvo Garzón published an article in \"Plant Signaling and Behavior\". He states that while plants do not have \"neurons\" as are discussed with animals, they possess an information-processing system composed of cells. He argues that this system can be used as a basis for discussing cognitive abilities in plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "24435259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24435259", "title": "Pretty v United Kingdom", "text": "Pretty v United Kingdom\n\nPretty v. United Kingdom (2346/02) was a case decided by European Court of Human Rights in 2002.\n\nDiane Pretty was suffering from motor neurone disease and was paralysed from the neck down, had little decipherable speech and was fed by a tube. It is not a crime to commit suicide under English law, but the applicant was prevented by her disease from taking such a step without assistance. It is however a crime to assist another to commit suicide (section 2(1) of the Suicide Act 1961). \n\nPretty wanted her husband to provide her with assistance in suicide. Because giving this assistance would expose the husband to liability, the Director of Public Prosecutions was asked to agree not to prosecute her husband. This request was refused, as was Pretty's appeal before the Law Lords.\n\nIn a unanimous judgment, the Court, composed of seven judges, has found Pretty's application under articles 2, 3, 8, 9 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights admissible, but found no violation of the Convention.\n\nSignificant conclusions include that \"no right to die, whether at the hands of a third person or with the assistance of a public authority, can be derived from Article 2 of the Convention\". As concerns Pretty's right to respect for private life under Article 8, the Court considered that the interference in this case might be justified as “necessary in a democratic society” for the protection of the rights of others.\n\n"}
{"id": "32753613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32753613", "title": "Richard Louis Duckett", "text": "Richard Louis Duckett\n\nRichard Louis Duckett (January 30, 1885 – July 19, 1972) was a Canadian athlete, lawyer and coroner, who held office in the judicial district of Montreal between 1937 and 1961.\n\nBorn in Montreal, the eldest son of a second-generation Irish Canadian shopkeeper and a French Canadian mother, Duckett was educated at the Collège Sainte-Marie before earning a law degree at the Université Laval à Montréal in 1908.\n\nRepresenting Canada as a member of the Ottawa Nationals Lacrosse Club, Duckett won a gold medal at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London. In December 1909, he briefly joined the newly-formed Club Athlétique Canadien, but never played a game for the team and did not pursue an ice hockey career any further, though he remained an active lacrosse player through most of the 1910's.\n\nAfter ending his athletic career, he joined a Montreal legal cabinet, before his appointment as coroner for the district of Montreal by the Duplessis administration in 1937, a position he occupied until his retirement in 1961.\n\nDuckett died in Montreal in 1972, at age 87.\n\n"}
{"id": "986627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986627", "title": "Sequence breaking", "text": "Sequence breaking\n\nIn computer and video games, sequence breaking is the act of performing actions or obtaining items out of the intended linear order, or of skipping \"required\" actions or items entirely. Sequence breaking is often used to beat a game unusually quickly, to beat it while only completing a few objectives or obtaining a few items, to obtain useful items early in the game, to make the game more difficult, or to help push a game as far as possible in some other way.\n\nThough sequence breaking as a concept has existed almost since the inception of computer games complex enough to have sequential storylines, apparently the first documented action in a video game to be \"called\" a sequence break occurred in the Nintendo GameCube game \"Metroid Prime\", in a thread called \"Gravity Suit and Ice Beam before Thardus\". In the game, the rock monster Thardus was designed to be a required boss before the Gravity Suit and the Ice Beam could be obtained, hence the novelty of bypassing the boss while still obtaining the items. When a gamer named Steven Banks achieved this feat on January 18, 2003, he posted his discovery on the \"Metroid Prime\" message board on GameFAQs. The thread attracted a number of interested gamers, and the term sequence breaking was incidentally coined. The term has since grown in popularity and is now often applied to unintended shortcuts in any game.\n\nThe term has become so pervasive that it has begun appearing in video games itself, and inspired by games such as \"Super Metroid\", game designers may create their games with sequence breaking in mind.\n\n"}
{"id": "27370978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27370978", "title": "Singleton (global governance)", "text": "Singleton (global governance)\n\nIn futurology, a singleton is a hypothetical world order in which there is a single decision-making agency at the highest level, capable of exerting effective control over its domain, and permanently preventing both internal and external threats to its supremacy. The term has first been defined by Nick Bostrom.\n\nAn artificial general intelligence having undergone an intelligence explosion could form a singleton, as could a world government armed with mind control and social surveillance technologies. A singleton need not directly micromanage everything in its domain; it could allow diverse forms of organization within itself, albeit guaranteed to function within strict parameters. A singleton need not support a civilization, and in fact could obliterate it upon coming to power.\n\nA singleton doesn't necessarily need to be an organisation, government or AI. It could form through all people accepting the same values or goals. These people coming together would form an \"agency\" in the broad sense of the term according to Bostrom. \n\nA singleton has both potential risks and potential benefits. Notably, a suitable singleton could solve world coordination problems that would not otherwise be solvable, opening up otherwise unavailable developmental trajectories for civilization. For example, Ben Goertzel, an AGI researcher, suggests humans may instead decide to create an \"AI Nanny\" with \"mildly superhuman intelligence and surveillance powers\", to protect the human race from existential risks like nanotechnology and to delay the development of other (unfriendly) artificial intelligences until and unless the safety issues are solved. Furthermore, Bostrom suggests that a singleton could hold Darwinian evolutionary pressures in check, preventing agents interested only in reproduction from coming to dominate.\n\nYet Bostrom also regards the possibility of a stable, repressive, totalitarian global regime as a serious existential risk. The very stability of a singleton makes the installation of a \"bad\" singleton especially catastrophic, since the consequences can never be undone. Bryan Caplan writes that \"perhaps an eternity of totalitarianism would be worse than extinction\".\n\nSimilarly Hans Morgenthau stressed that the mechanical development of weapons, transportation, and communication makes \"the conquest of the world technically possible, and they make it technically possible to keep the world in that conquered state\". Its lack was the reason why great ancient empires, though vast, failed to complete universal conquest of their world and perpetuate the conquest. Now, however, this is possible. Technology undoes both geographic and climatic barriers. \"Today no technological obstacle stands in the way of a world-wide empire\", as \"modern technology makes it possible to extend the control of mind and action to every corner of the globe regardless of geography and season.\" Morgenthau continued on the technological progress:\n"}
{"id": "1072234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072234", "title": "Spira (Final Fantasy)", "text": "Spira (Final Fantasy)\n\nSpira is the fictional world of the Square role-playing video games \"Final Fantasy X\" and \"Final Fantasy X-2\". Spira is the first \"Final Fantasy\" world to feature consistent, all-encompassing spiritual and mythological influences within the planet's civilizations and their inhabitants' daily lives. The world of Spira itself is very different from the mainly European-style worlds found in previous \"Final Fantasy\" games, being much more closely modeled on a setting influenced by the South Pacific, Thailand and Japan, most notably with respect to its vegetation, topography and architecture.\n\nThe creation of Spira includes distinct ethnic minorities including a portrayal of the fictional Al Bhed language that is prevalent throughout the game's dialogue. The backstory and concept behind the dark religious themes of \"Final Fantasy X\" were a central theme to the story and their ultimate resolution was well received. The popularity of the \"Eternal Calm\" video served as the impetus of Square Enix to do \"Final Fantasy X-2\" to make their first direct sequel in video game form and depict the evolution of Spiran society after religious and political upheaval results in new factions and instability in the world. Spira and its inhabiting characters have been featured in several other Square Enix works including \"Dissidia Final Fantasy\", \"Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy\", three games within the \"Kingdom Hearts\" series and \"Theatrhythm Final Fantasy\".\n\nThere have been numerous academic essays on the game's presentation, narrative and localization aspects. Washburn writes that mastering the game comes with the mastering of the cultural knowledge of Spira to unlock skills and abilities. O'Hagan writes on the localization of the games that impact the game experience, detailing alterations to the script and dialogue with modifications, additions and omissions. Another aspect was that the presentation of Spira without an overworld view can be considered a pioneer in 3D role-playing game maps.\n\nIn speaking about the inspiration behind Spira, producer Yoshinori Kitase recounted that players had found fault with the science fiction atmosphere of \"Final Fantasy VII\" and \"Final Fantasy VIII\", instead desiring a \"simple fantasy world\". To Kitase, the word \"fantasy\" did not indicate a purely medieval European setting, so he intentionally set out with the objective of redefining the stereotype held in players' minds. Nomura identified the South Pacific, Thailand, and Japan as major influences on the cultural and geographic design of Spira, particularly in regard to the geographic locations of Besaid and Kilika. Yusuke Naora, the art director, noted that during the concept stage many people on the project were interested in Asian themes including Nojima and Kitase. For Zanarkand, the Uzbek city of Samarkand has been cited as an inspiration.\n\nNomura said that Spira deviates from the worlds of past \"Final Fantasy\" games most notably in the level of detail incorporated, something he has expressed to have made a conscious effort to maintain during the design process. Fumi Nakashima, the sub-character chief designer, concentrated on giving characters from different regions and cultures distinct styles of clothing. Nakashima wanted the machine-oriented society of the Al Bhed to stand out and had them wear masks and goggles to give them a strange and eccentric appearance.\n\nKoji Sugimoto, main programmer for characters, said that the complexities of the PlayStation 2 hardware made mastering it difficult, but more rewarding because the details on Yuna's sleeves to the depiction of shine and shadow could be rendered more realistically. \"Final Fantasy X\" was the first game that allowed for 3-D model rendering of backgrounds that increased the presentation, including small details like grass blowing in the wind and cloud movement. Takayoshi Nakazato decided to abandon the typical world map concept for a more realistic depiction. \"Final Fantasy X\"s spatial presentation of Spira is tied to progression; with a player's progress being marked through the panoramic introduction and depiction of the area upon first entry. Chiharu Minekawa, the supervising sound editor, commented that the transition in sound from one environment to the next was done seamlessly in order to mimic the natural surroundings of these environments as the player moved through them.\n\nThe decision to create \"Final Fantasy X-2\" came after fan response to the \"Eternal Calm\" in the International Edition of \"Final Fantasy X\" which depicted events two years following Yuna's final battle. The dark religious theme of the first game was concluded and the cultural changes were explored as the people of Spira, the focus on fashion that \"reflects their state of mind\". Toriyama believes the most important element incorporated into \"Final Fantasy X-2\" was the \"peaceful world of Spira achieved in FFX and unification of characters' state of mind.\" Kitase identified \"Final Fantasy X\"s theme as \"independence from the ties of law and customs\" and \"Final Fantasy X-2\"s theme is about \"the changes that occurred from the chaos after gaining that independence.\"\n\nFor \"Final Fantasy X-2\" many pop culture references were used, including \"Charlie's Angels\" and with the transformation of the dress spheres being a reference to the magical girl genre of anime.\n\nSquare Enix chose to update \"Final Fantasy X\" and \"Final Fantasy X-2\"s graphics for a remastered release in high-definition. With a production cycle longer than two years, the graphics were not merely upscaled to higher resolutions and feature updated models and textures. Kitase commented that he wanted to excite new and returning players and added more depth to do so and opened up the possibility of further remasters based on reception. Many views could not simply be reframed to 16:9 because that would reveal characters waiting for their cues off-screen, so the remastering team performed a lot of redrawing and additions to the visuals.\n\nThe main landmass of Spira is surrounded by small islands, including: Besaid, a tropical town serving as the origin of Yuna's pilgrimage; Kilika, a larger island featuring dense jungles and numerous conflicts during the games; and the desert island of Bikanel, which is also the location of the Al Bhed's headquarters — \"Home\". The ruins of Baaj Temple are on an island to the south of the Spira mainland; this is where Tidus begins his journey in Spira.\n\nThe mainland of Spira is where the bulk of \"Final Fantasy X\" takes place. The southernmost location of the mainland, Luca, is a large city home to Spira's pastime, Blitzball. North of Luca is the mountainous area of Djose, which features a Yevonite temple. Connecting Luca and Djose are several roads: the Mi'ihen Highroad, a historical path that features Chocobos for transportation; the Mushroom Rock Road, home of the failed operation to defeat Sin; and Djose Highroad, a rocky path that forks north into the Moonflow and east to Djose Temple.\n\nThe Moonflow is a large river running through the heart of Spira, featuring shoopuf rides, ancient ruins, and a high density of pyreflies. A path from the Moonflow leads to Guadosalam, home of the Guado race and the gateway to the . North of Guadosalam are the Thunder Plains, which are the site of a never-ending thunderstorm made safe by lightning rods calibrated by the Al Bhed. The Thunder Plains lead into Macalania, a sparkling forest complemented by a frozen lake and a Yevonite temple.\n\nBevelle, the spiritual center of the Yevon religion, lies on a thin strip of land slightly north of Macalania. The city is built as a series of layers, with the headquarters of Yevon located at the top. The Via Purifico, located beneath Bevelle, serves as an oubliette for outcasts. Further north are the Calm Lands, a series of plains that have been the site of numerous battles in Spira's history; the Cavern of the Stolen Fayth, an equally historical area; and Mt. Gagazet, home of the Ronsos. Lastly, the sacred city of Zanarkand is on the northern tip of the Spiran mainland, reduced to ruins by Sin one thousand years before the events of \"Final Fantasy X\".\n\n\"Final Fantasy X-2\" features several changes to the locations of Spira. The Djose Temple, abandoned by a faltering Yevon after \"Final Fantasy X\", becomes the headquarters of the Machine Faction; likewise, the Youth League sets up their headquarters at the site of the failed operation on the Mushroom Rock Road. Bevelle remains the capital of the New Yevon faction, although the game introduces a large, technological area hidden beneath the city. Several new enterprises have been started, including a new pastime in Luca called Sphere Break; a group of entertainers at the Moonflow; a tourist service at the Zanarkand Ruins; and machina transportation in favor of Chocobos on the Mi'ihen Highroad. Lastly, the death of the Aeons at the end of \"Final Fantasy X\" causes the Macalania forest and lake to melt, sinking the former Yevon temple and destroying the forest's life. \"Final Fantasy X-2\" also introduces floating ruins atop Mt. Gagazet and previously unexplored caverns throughout Spira.\n\nAlthough it is predominantly populated by humanoids, Spira features a variety of races. The people of Spira mainly reside in small towns and villages and cities like Bevelle and Luca. The Al Bhed is a unique ethnic group which plays an important role in the storyline and world of the games with distinctive green eyes with spiral-shaped pupils. The culture and conflicts of the Al Bhed permeate the games. The main characters Rikku, is Al Bhed, and Yuna is part Al Bhed on her mother's side; and assistance in gaining through a cast of supporting Al Bhed character's, prevalent in \"Final Fantasy X-2\". With the collapse of the teachings of Yevon and the wider acceptance of machina at the end of \"Final Fantasy X\", prejudice against the Al Bhed seems to have eased significantly by the time of \"Final Fantasy X-2\", though it is still present.\n\nThe Al Bhed speak their own \"language\" which is really just a substitution cipher of English, a system of transposing certain letters for others; however, within the game world, it is intended to be an actual language. The original Japanese version of the cipher uses the syllable-based kana system of writing where each symbol represents a combination of \"consonant + vowel\" or simply a vowel. Certain keywords are not translated into Al Bhed in the game, to give the impression of use of loanwords compared to modern foreign languages. Most keywords are proper nouns, but some common nouns also are not translated, such as \"fiend\" (e.g. \"Y fiend! Eh risyh teckieca!\" [A \"fiend\"! In human disguise!]). Alexander Smith decided to \"map common phonemes in English to common phonemes in Welsh\" and gave preference to Welsh pronunciations, but had to work with new diphthongs to maintain consistency in the Al Bhed language.\n\nSeveral other races are found throughout Spira, including the Guado, the Hypello, and the Ronso races. The Guado are an arboreal humanoid race with long limbs and fingers, pale skin, and wild, tangled hair. The Guado are the keepers of the entryway to the Farplane, where the dead are sent and have the unique ability to \"smell the deceased\" and other abilities related to pyreflies. The Ronso are a race of horned, blue-furred, lion-like humanoids who live on Mt. Gagazet, which they consider sacred and guard fiercely. Ronso are tall and formidable warriors with a strong sense of honor and loyalty. A subplot of \"Final Fantasy X\" involves Kimahri Ronso's conflict with his social status that results in his leadership of the Ronso in \"Final Fantasy X-2\". The Hypello are a docile, amphibious race with blue skin and live primarily in and around the area of the Moonflow. Though extremely quick and agile swimmers, they are the only race in Spira that does not participate in Blitzball tournaments. The male Hypello are all voiced by John DeMita.\n\nSpira also features various animal species and fictional species, such as the gigantic shoopuf and the chocobo that are used primarily for transport purposes. Most other unusual creatures encountered in \"Final Fantasy X\" are \"fiends\", monsters created from the restless dead by Pyreflies to devour the living. Aeons and the unsent are also forms created by pyreflies. Sin, the bringer of destruction, is a powerful fiend that is made of high-density pyreflies; it can control gravitation forces to replenish its strength and even fly. Sin's high concentration of pyreflies affect the pyreflies present in the bodies of those present, it is known as \"Sin's toxin\". Despite the Final Summoning, the core of Sin, is not destroyed and Sin is \"reborn\" after a time.\n\nSpira's fictional history centers around an ancient war a thousand years prior to the start of the game that has Yevon preserve the memory of Zanarkand. Yevon's people became the fayth to create this manifestation and Yevon made himself into Sin to protect it. A religious faith is built on atonement and sacrifice, creating a spiral of death that runs throughout Spira's history. A ritual known as \"the Final Summoning\" would provide brief reprieves from Sin's terror, called the . After completing a pilgrimage the summoner and a guardian would defeat Sin by sacrificing their lives to bring about the Calm.\n\nIn the one thousand years that followed Sin's creation and the destruction of Zanarkand, Spira became a rustic land, almost completely devoid of large cities and higher civilization. Due to the actions of Sin, and the Yevon ban on machina, few territories reached larger than hamlet size, as they were destroyed by Sin and their populations decimated before they were able to develop. The only cities left larger than small villages were Luca, which houses the only blitzball stadium in Spira, and Bevelle, the center of the temples of Yevon. Yuna and her guardians break the cycle and bring about the \"Eternal Calm\".\n\nAs a result of the events in \"Final Fantasy X\", in \"Final Fantasy X-2\" the teachings of Yevon were no longer deemed valid, and association with machina and the Al Bhed people no longer sacrilegious. Spirans in general had a positive outlook with the onset of the Eternal Calm. New political groups fought for power the largest being the Youth League, the New Yevon Party, the Machine Faction. Yuna ultimately restores peace and saves Spira a second time with multiple endings based on the player's performance.\n\nIn the world of \"Final Fantasy X\" and its sequel, many supernatural elements influence events in the fictional world of Spira, defining the life of the planet's inhabitants. Magic, spiritual energy, and the power of memories are heavily intertwined, and their effects manifest in a number of situations, including sporting events, religious practices, technology, and even in some of the native wildlife of the planet. The most popular pastime is Blitzball. The depiction of Sin as a \"existence that agonizes the world\" and as a \"disaster with form\" plays an important role in Spira's everyday life throughout \"Final Fantasy X\". In \"Final Fantasy X-2\", the population of Spira pursues additional leisures including attending concerts and a coin-collecting fad called Sphere Break.\n\nIn Spira, when a person dies suddenly and unexpectedly, his or her life force, manifested as pyreflies, must be released from the body and sent to the Farplane, the final resting place of departed souls. If the sending is not performed, the body's spirit may remain trapped in the physical plane and take on the form of a fiend. A spirit of the dead may resist the transformation into a fiend, even when not sent and remain amongst the living, they are \"unsent\". The unsent play a prominent role in the storyline and mythos, including the playable character Auron and other characters including Maester Jyscal Guado, Shuyin, and Lady Yunalesca.\n\nPyreflies are a mysterious, naturally occurring phenomenon that heavily influence the events of \"Final Fantasy X\" and \"Final Fantasy X-2\", as well as the world of Spira at large. Heavily prevalent throughout Spira, these \"bundles of life energy\" are closely associated with death and other spiritual events and entities by the people of Spira. At high concentrations, Pyreflies are capable of recording memories, sights and sounds. Pyreflies are also associated with many commonplace technological innovations including sphere-shaped recording devices and large, suspended spherical conglomerations of congealed water (called \"sphere pools\") that serve as the playing field for blitzball games. The pyreflies are also a source of raw energy to empower the giant machina, Vegnagun. Shinra of the Gullwings suggests that the life energy flowing through Spira on the Farplane could possibly be harnessed for the purpose of supplying electricity to a city. In interviews published in the \"Final Fantasy X Ultimania Ω\" and \"Final Fantasy X-2 Ultimania\" guidebooks, scenario writer Kazushige Nojima and producer Yoshinori Kitase revealed that \"Final Fantasy VII\" and \"Final Fantasy X-2\" share a plot-related connection, in which the Shin-ra corporation in \"Final Fantasy VII\" is founded on another planet after about one thousand years, after space travel became possible, by descendants of Shinra of the Gullwings in \"Final Fantasy X-2\". This connection was conceived of only after \"Final Fantasy X\" was already finished and realized in \"Final Fantasy X-2\" riding on the success of the original game and is not reflected in the gameplay or storylines of \"Final Fantasy VII\" or \"Final Fantasy X\".\n\nReligion is an important part of life for many of the peoples of Spira, with a large majority of the population describing themselves as \"Yevonites.\" Though by the end of \"Final Fantasy X\" some people had begun to question them, nevertheless the teachings of Yevon were millennium-old and heavily influential. The Yevonite clergy taught that Sin was a divine punishment set upon the people for their pride in the use of machines. As a result, the temples forbade the use of modern technology, and promoted a culture of atonement for past sins in the hopes of appeasing sin.\n\nWhile the Yevon church forbids most machina including weapons, their capital Bevelle retains machina to ensure its dominance. The Al Bhed are seen as dangerous to the Yevon clergy because they use machina and pose a threat to the church's uncontested control of Spira. The church retains its power by role in using the Final Summoning which results in the sacrifice of the summoner and her guardian to prevent its secrets from being divulged. Though Yevon set up Operation Mi’ihen to instill further loyalty to the teachings by making the Crusaders use machina that would never win against Sin. By the end of \"Final Fantasy X\", the Yevon religion was effectively disbanded once evidence of its corruption was discovered, and its remaining priests volunteered the truth. Half a year later, the moral teachings of Yevon were revitalized in the form of the New Yevon Party, later led in \"Final Fantasy X-2\" by Praetor Baralai. Although technically a splinter group of Yevon, the New Yevon party was not a religion, but a simple philosophy, their motto and position on Spira's advancement being \"One thing at a time.\"\n\nIn \"Final Fantasy X\" the is an important song. Its fictional history started as a song of defiance turned scripture and has numerous variations that is played throughout the game throughout Yuna's journey; primarily as the music of the temples. Though the Hymn's words apparently have no discernible meaning within the context of Spira, the lyricist and scenario writer, Kazushige Nojima, composed a small puzzle with the lyrics, using Japanese syllables. When properly deciphered, they form sentences that translates thus: \"Pray to Yu Yevon. Dream, fayth. Forever and ever, grant us prosperity.\" The hymn was composed and arranged by Nobuo Uematsu and Masashi Hamauzu.\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\"s negative depiction of organized religion has been compared to the Catholic Church and the corruptibility of organized religion in general with the ultimate battle against a god. Stark writes that the game is a thesis on religion and the final battle with Yu Yevon offers a discourse on how to defeat it, by \"let[ting] it die a slow death, murder it with sheer force, or utilize one’s knowledge of the (game) world to give it no power to stand on\". \"The Game Theorists\" add additional concepts, going further as to cite Final Fantasy as \"anti-religion\".\n\nThe are humans who willingly give up their lives to have their souls sealed in statues and commune with summoners with whom they have established a mental link. This link grants a summoner access to a fayth's dreams and enables him or her to physically realize those dreams as , powerful creatures which may be employed to aid the summoner in battle or in a time of special need. During the events of \"Final Fantasy X\", the fayth of the aeon Bahamut serves as the chosen representative of the fayth as a collective. The fayth aids High Summoner Yuna and her guardians in bringing the spiral of death to an end, which results in their own passing. In \"Final Fantasy X-2\", the fayth return in their aeon forms, this time having been overcome by the despair and malice of Shuyin, rendering them his unwilling puppets of chaos. Yuna and her allies free both the fayth and Shuyin from the darkness that has consumed them. Ten aeons are identified in \"Final Fantasy X\": Valefor, Ifrit, Shiva, Ixion, Bahamut, Anima, Yojimbo and the three Magus Sisters. The game builds on mythological figures through the inclusion of the aeons, such as the Arabic Ifrit, the Hindu deity Shiva and even the Jungian figure Anima and the demon Valefor. Wilder wrote on the Jungian analysis of Anima and tied Square Enix's depiction of the Aeon as both a representation of Seymour's corruption. Wilder analyzes the chained and blinded depiction of the figure that is Seymour's mother and tying the form to her bound to servitude to Seymour in his descent into madness.\n\nThe Crusaders (formerly known as the \"Crimson Blades\") were a loosely-knit army that existed to protect towns and temples from Sin. The group was founded by Lord Mi'ihen, who made a journey to Bevelle 800 years ago to calm the maesters' fears that he was assembling an army to conquer them. Mi'ihen managed to win their trust, and the Crimson Blades were thereafter inducted into the Yevon clergy as the Crusaders. The road Mi'ihen had walked was renamed the \"Mi'ihen Highroad\" in his honor. Unlike guardians, Crusaders are directly related to the temples. No non-Yevonite is permitted to serve as a Crusader, although there are unofficial chapters composed entirely of people who have been excommunicated. All of the Crusaders were excommunicated, however, when they set up Operation Mi'ihen, a joint Crusader-Al Bhed attempt to destroy Sin with a giant machina weapon. The operation failed and the Crusaders were largely eradicated in the process. A group known as the Crimson Squad was also formed around Operation Mi'ihen. Three candidates survived the final exercise; Baralai, Nooj and Gippal, all of whom would eventually lead one of the three political factions during the events of \"Final Fantasy X-2\".\n\nSpira is the world of \"Final Fantasy X\" and \"Final Fantasy X-2\", but elements of its world and characters have been included in other \"Final Fantasy\" media. For \"Dissidia Final Fantasy\" and its sequel/remake \"Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy\" the characters Tidus, Yuna, Jecht and an area known as were featured. The Dreams' End shares similarities to the final area of \"Final Fantasy X\" complete with a large replica of Jecht's sword in the center. \"Final Fantasy X\"s Tidus and Wakka are supporting characters in \"Kingdom Hearts\", \"\" and \"Kingdom Hearts coded\". Auron makes an appearance in \"Kingdom Hearts II\" as a supporting team member and \"Final Fantasy X-2\"s main cast of Yuna, Rikku and Paine appear also make an appearance as supporting characters. Tidus, Auron and Yuna are also playable characters in \"Theatrhythm Final Fantasy\".\n\nIn \"Imagined History, Fading Memory: Mastering Narrative in Final Fantasy X\", Washburn writes that \"Final Fantasy X\" \"makes the relationship of memory, history, and the struggle for control of knowledge a central element of both its gameplay and its narrative.\" Washburn gives a synopsis of the game's alternate history and describes Spira's development as \"evok[ing] a number of culturally vital discourses in Japan that the designers of the game drew on: the modernist aesthetics of evanescence, the loss of faith and belief in a society where technology and religion clash, the desire for a dream realm of memories as the source of an alternative history, and the nostalgic desire for the sublime experience of the annihilation of the past and the completion of history.\" Washburn uses \"Final Fantasy X\" and the analysis of its narrative to make the case for academic study of the medium and counter the critical views held by detractors like Espen Aarseth, summarizing that \"The ability to complete the game requires mastering not only the instrumental controls needed to acquire and perfect game skills but also the narrative itself, the cultural knowledge of Spira that facilitates the acquisition of skills and abilities.\" In \"Languages Of Navigation Within Computer Games\" Flynn asserts that \"Final Fantasy X\"s navigation is a representative and symbolic language, writing that \"[a]lthough Final Fantasy X establishes itself through the opening cut scene as narrative based, it becomes clear that a poetic and mythic experience of space rather than a cinematic sense of space is in operation.\" \n\nThe localization process of \"Final Fantasy X\" and \"Final Fantasy X-2\" was analyzed as a case study by Mangiron and O'Hagan to highlight the liberties of localization. Technical limitations include localizing over a thousand weapons with unique names that must be conveyed in 15 characters yet have no English equivalent as in the case of that became \"Painkiller\" in English. Other cases include the addition of accents as in the case of \"Final Fantasy X-2\"s O'aka, a merchant, who speaks Cockney despite no accent being present in Japanese. Also included were references to Lollapalooza and humorous references to speech, with Rikku's verb conjugation of a noun having been modified for English audiences. Other differences like Sano's name being changed to Ormi for the English version, with Mangiron and O'Hagan noting a possible issue with the Spanish meaning of \"Sano\" as \"healthy\" in stark contradiction to Ormi's obese appearance. Mangiron and O'Hagan conclude that these changes and contextualisation by addition result in transcreation instead of just translation. Using the games as a case study, Mangiron and O'Hagan highlight that the freedom to modify, omit or add content results in the traditional concept of fidelity being discarded to maintain the \"game experience\".\n\nIn the Marie Curie Euroconference on the Challenges of Multidimensional Translation, Minako O’Hagan expanded on the localization issue including the extreme rewrite of \"Final Fantasy X-2\"s theme song \"1000 words\" and the \"International Edition\" using \" in-game dialogues are produced fresh to match the dubbed American version, instead of using the original Japanese script.\" O'Hagan noted a point of contention raised by fans were Yuna's final words to Tidus in \"Final Fantasy X\" as \"Thank you\" (Arigato) being translated in English as \"I love you\"; this translation would extend to the European release and the voice dialogue would be in English. Other academic publications refer to the localization process of \"Final Fantasy X\" including Hevian and Marco.\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\"s depiction of Spira set a new standard with the traversing of real-time 3D environments instead of an overworld map, making the portrayal of Spira a pioneer in 3-D RPG maps.\n\n"}
{"id": "227053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227053", "title": "Superorganism", "text": "Superorganism\n\nA superorganism or supraorganism (the latter is less frequently used but more etymologically correct) or extended organism is a group of synergistically interacting organisms of the same species. A community of synergistically interacting organisms of different species is called a holobiont.\n\nThe term superorganism is used most often to describe a social unit of eusocial animals, where division of labour is highly specialised and where individuals are not able to survive by themselves for extended periods. Ants are the best-known example of such a superorganism. A superorganism can be defined as \"a collection of agents which can act in concert to produce phenomena governed by the collective\", phenomena being any activity \"the hive wants\" such as ants collecting food and avoiding predators, or bees choosing a new nest site. Superorganisms tend to exhibit homeostasis, power law scaling, persistent disequilibrium and emergent behaviours.\n\nThe term was coined in 1789 by James Hutton, the \"father of geology\", to refer to Earth in the context of geophysiology. The Gaia hypothesis of James Lovelock, and Lynn Margulis as well as the work of Hutton, Vladimir Vernadsky and Guy Murchie, have suggested that the biosphere itself can be considered a superorganism, although this has been disputed. This view relates to systems theory and the dynamics of a complex system.\n\nThe concept of a superorganism raises the question of what is to be considered an individual. Toby Tyrrell's critique of the Gaia hypothesis argues that Earth's climate system does not resemble an animal's physiological system. Planetary biospheres are not tightly regulated in the same way that animal bodies are: \"planets, unlike animals, are not products of evolution. Therefore we are entitled to be highly skeptical (or even outright dismissive) about whether to expect something akin to a \"superorganism\"\". He concludes that \"the superorganism analogy is unwarranted\". However, as Gaia is another systemic level of integration in Nature, precisely has properties that cannot be inferred from their components.\n\nSome scientists have suggested that individual human beings can be thought of as \"superorganisms\"; as a typical human digestive system contains 10 to 10 microorganisms whose collective genome, the microbiome studied by the Human Microbiome Project, contains at least 100 times as many genes as the human genome itself. Salvucci wrote that superorganism is another level of integration that it is observed in nature. These levels include the genomic, the organismal and the ecological levels. The genomic structure of organism reveals the fundamental role of integration and gene shuffling along evolution.\n\nThe nineteenth century thinker Herbert Spencer coined the term \"super-organic\" to focus on social organization (the first chapter of his \"Principles of Sociology\" is entitled \"Super-organic Evolution\"), though this was apparently a distinction between the organic and the social, \"not\" an identity: Spencer explored the holistic nature of society as a social organism while distinguishing the ways in which society did not behave like an organism. For Spencer, the super-organic was an emergent property of interacting organisms, that is, human beings. And, as has been argued by D. C. Phillips, there is a \"difference between emergence and reductionism\".\n\nThe economist Carl Menger expanded upon the evolutionary nature of much social growth, but without ever abandoning methodological individualism. Many social institutions arose, Menger argued, not as \"the result of socially teleological causes, but the unintended result of innumerable efforts of economic subjects pursuing 'individual' interests\".\n\nSpencer and Menger both argued that because it is individuals who choose and act, any social whole should be considered less than an organism, though Menger emphasized this more emphatically. Spencer used the organistic idea to engage in extended analysis of social structure, conceding that it was primarily an analogy. So, for Spencer, the idea of the super-organic best designated a distinct level of social reality above that of biology and psychology, and not a one-to-one identity with an organism. Nevertheless, Spencer maintained that \"every organism of appreciable size is a society\", which has suggested to some that the issue may be terminological.\n\nThe term \"superorganic\" was adopted by the anthropologist Alfred L. Kroeber in 1917. Social aspects of the superorganism concept are analysed in Marshall (2002). Finally, recent work in social psychology has offered the superorganism metaphor as a unifying framework to understand diverse aspects of human sociality, such as religion, conformity, and social identity processes.\n\nSuperorganisms are important in cybernetics, particularly biocybernetics. They exhibit a form of \"distributed intelligence\", a system in which many individual agents with limited intelligence and information are able to pool resources to accomplish a goal beyond the capabilities of the individuals. Existence of such behavior in organisms has many implications for military and management applications, and is being actively researched.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31385731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31385731", "title": "Telium", "text": "Telium\n\nTelium, plural telia, are structures produced by rust fungi as part of the reproductive cycle.\nThey are typically yellow or orange drying to brown or black and are exclusively a mechanism for the release of teliospores which are released by wind or water to infect the alternate host in the rust life-cycle.\n"}
{"id": "39513921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39513921", "title": "The Fault in Our Stars (film)", "text": "The Fault in Our Stars (film)\n\nThe Fault in Our Stars is a 2014 American romantic tragedy film directed by Josh Boone, based on the 2012 novel of the same name by John Green. The film stars Shailene Woodley, Ansel Elgort, Laura Dern, Sam Trammell, Nat Wolff, and Willem Dafoe playing supporting roles. Woodley plays Hazel Grace Lancaster, a sixteen-year-old cancer patient who is forced by her parents to attend a support group, where she meets and subsequently falls in love with Augustus Waters, another cancer patient, played by Elgort.\n\nDevelopment of \"The Fault in Our Stars\" began in January 2012 when Fox 2000, a division of 20th Century Fox, optioned the rights to adapt the novel into a feature film. Principal photography began on August 26, 2013, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, with a few additional days in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, before concluding on October 16, 2013. Pittsburgh doubled for all of the scenes set in Indianapolis, Indiana, the novel's setting, as well as for some interior scenes set in Amsterdam.\n\n\"The Fault in Our Stars\" was released in the United States on June 6, 2014, to positive critical reception, with praise given to Woodley's and Elgort's performances as well as the screenplay. The film was also a blockbuster, becoming number one at the box office during its opening weekend, and grossing over $307 million worldwide against a budget of $12 million. It was released on Blu-ray and DVD on September 16, 2014, and grossed over $42 million in total domestic video sales.\n\nHazel Grace Lancaster is a teenager living in Indianapolis, who has terminal thyroid cancer that has spread to her lungs. Believing she is depressed, her mother Frannie urges her to attend a weekly cancer patient support group to help her make friends with individuals who are going through the same thing. There Hazel meets Augustus Waters, a charming teenager who lost a leg to bone cancer but has since apparently been cancer-free. He invites Hazel to his house where they bond over their hobbies and agree to read each other's favorite books. Hazel recommends \"An Imperial Affliction\", a novel about a cancer-stricken girl named Anna that parallels her experience, and Augustus gives Hazel \"Counter Insurgence\". They keep in touch via text over the weeks that follow and grow closer. After Augustus finishes the book, he expresses frustration with its abrupt ending (it ends in the middle of a sentence). Hazel explains that the novel's mysterious author, Peter Van Houten (Willem Dafoe), retreated to Amsterdam following the novel's publication and has not been heard from since.\n\nWeeks later, Augustus tells Hazel he has traced Van Houten's assistant, Lidewij, and has corresponded with Van Houten by email. She writes to him to find out more about the novel's ambiguous ending. Van Houten replies that he is only willing to answer her questions in person. Hazel asks her mother if she can travel to Amsterdam to visit him, but Frannie kindly refuses because of financial and medical constraints. Augustus suggests that she use the \"cancer wish\" she received from Make-A-Wish Foundation but Hazel explains that she has already used hers to visit Walt Disney World. Augustus and Hazel go on a picnic date and begin to fall in love. Augustus surprises Hazel with tickets to Amsterdam. After a medical setback, Hazel's doctors eventually agree to allow the trip, since they expect that she will soon become incapable of doing anything at all.\n\nHazel and Augustus arrive in Amsterdam and are presented with reservations at an expensive restaurant, pre-paid by Van Houten. During the meal, Augustus confesses his love for Hazel. The following afternoon, they go to Van Houten's house, but are shocked to find he is a mean-spirited alcoholic. Lidewij arranged the meeting and their dinner without Van Houten knowing anything about it. Angered by his assistant's actions, he taunts Hazel for seeking serious answers to a piece of fiction and belittles her medical condition. She leaves, utterly distraught. Lidewij invites them to go sightseeing to make up for their ruined experience. The three visit the Anne Frank House, where Hazel struggles to climb the house's many stairs. They spend that night together in their hotel and have sex for the first time. The next day Augustus tells Hazel that his cancer has returned and spread throughout his body and is terminal. Hazel is heartbroken, expressing how unfair life can be.\n\nAfter their return to Indianapolis, Augustus' health worsens. He is taken to the ICU and realizes he is close to death. Augustus invites his blind best friend Isaac and Hazel to his pre-funeral, where they deliver eulogies that they have both prepared. Hazel tells him she would not trade their short time together for anything, since he \"gave me a forever within the numbered days.\" Augustus dies eight days later and Hazel is astonished to find Van Houten at the funeral. He tells her that Augustus had demanded he attend his funeral to make up for the spoiled trip. Van Houten tells her that the novel is based on the experiences of his daughter Anna, who died from leukemia at a young age. He gives Hazel a piece of paper which she crumples up asking him to leave. Later, talking with Isaac, Hazel learns that Augustus had asked Van Houten to help him write a eulogy for her. She retrieves the crumpled paper and reads his words accepting his death and about his love for her. She lies on her back on her lawn looking up at the stars, smiling as she remembers Augustus and says: \"Okay.\"\n\n\nOn January 31, 2012, it was announced that Fox 2000, a division of 20th Century Fox, had optioned the rights to adapt John Green's novel \"The Fault in Our Stars\" for a feature film. Wyck Godfrey and Marty Bowen were due to produce the film with their production company, Temple Hill Entertainment. Stephen Chbosky, who directed \"The Perks of Being a Wallflower\" (also filmed in Pittsburgh), was in talks to direct the film but turned it down because of its similarity to \"Perks\". On February 19, 2013, Josh Boone was hired as director; Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber were hired to adapt the novel into a screenplaytheir second adaptation for Fox, following \"Rosaline\".\n\nOn March 19, 2013, \"Entertainment Weekly\" announced that Shailene Woodley (who had recently been cast in, and was filming, \"Divergent\") would play Hazel Grace Lancaster. Director Josh Boone said: \"We read close to 150 actresses for the role, and I saw about 50 of those. Within ten or fifteen seconds of Shailene's audition, I knew she was Hazel. She held up her script pages and just her eyes were peeking over them.\" On May 10, 2013, Ansel Elgort was cast as Hazel's love interest, Augustus Waters. On July 23, Laura Dern joined the cast as Hazel's mother Frannie Lancaster, and Nat Wolff as Issac, Augustus' best friend. Wolff told HuffPost Live: \"It's exciting, I feel really lucky. The fact that I get to work with these super talented peopleI mean, that's part of the reason why, I'm good in the movie, that's the reason.\" On August 14, Sam Trammell was cast as Hazel's father Michael Lancaster, and on August 28, author John Green announced that Mike Birbiglia would be playing Patrick. On September 6, he tweeted that Willem Dafoe would play Peter van Houten.\n\nPrior to these announcements, author John Green had tweeted that he would be happy if Mae Whitman played Hazel, and in February 2013, there had been speculation that Shailene Woodley and Hailee Steinfeld were among those being considered for the lead role.\n\nJohn Green filmed a cameo appearance; his scene was cut from the film but is included in the deleted scenes section of the film's DVD and Blu-ray releases. In the cut scene, Green plays the father of a young girl who asks about Hazel's cannula while at the airport. Green said: \"They cut [the scene] because it was totally unnecessary to the movie-slash-I was terrible.\"\n\nPrincipal photography began on August 26, 2013, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Film locations included Oakmont, Pennsylvania, UPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, and the historic The Mansions on Fifth hotel. The church scenes were filmed at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in the Pittsburgh suburb of Mt. Lebanon. Filming in Pennsylvania continued until October 10, then the production moved to Amsterdam, where filming began on October 14. Filming was officially completed on October 16, 2013.\n\nIn Amsterdam, three days of filming took place. Woodley and Elgort were filmed on a canal-side public bench. On July 2, 2014, \"The Guardian\" reported that the bench had gone missing, and city officials said they did not know where it was. Amsterdam city spokesman, Stephan van der Hoek said: \"It's a bit embarrassing, because we do keep good track of them, but it's gone all right\". He promised to install a new bench within weeks. Just a week later, \"Entertainment Weekly\" said the Amsterdam film office had tweeted a photograph taken during the re-installation of the stolen bench; Amsterdam film commissioner Simon Brester said it was the same bench, not a replacement.\n\nFilming in Pittsburgh included the interior scenes at the Anne Frank House, which was recreated on a soundstage at Pittsburgh Studios located in Churchill Borough, Pennsylvania in the east suburbs of Pittsburgh. Production designer Molly Hughes and art director Greg Weimerskirch built three different studio sets in Pittsburgh, one for each floor. Also, the Funky Bones art monument in Indianapolis was recreated in Pittsburgh with the help of the sculpture's creator, Dutch artist Joep Van Lieshout.\n\nAuthor John Green, though an Indianapolis native, was pleased with the selection of Pittsburgh for filming. He commented that Pittsburgh has an amazing community of really talented film professionals that’s been built up over the last 20 years. I’ve been blown away by their professionalism, their confidence, their dedication. There aren’t a lot of cities like that. You kind of have to find the city that can be Indianapolis. And Pittsburgh, even though it has a lot of hills, it can be Indianapolis. We just have to find a couple of flat streets.\n\nMike Mogis and Nate Walcott of Bright Eyes scored the film. The full album track list was released on April 13, 2014, featuring songs from artists including: M83, Grouplove, Kodaline, Jake Bugg, Tom Odell, Birdy, Ed Sheeran and Charli XCX, who performed \"Boom Clap\", one of the main songs from the movie, which became an international success, due in part to its exposure in the film. The soundtrack was released by Atlantic Records on May 19 in the U.S., and on June 23 in the UK.\n\n\"The Fault in Our Stars\" premiered to 300 guests at the Ziegfeld Theater in New York City on June 2, 2014. At the premiere, Green said: \"I didn't want to sell it, because Hollywood sucks at making unsentimental movies about illness.\" The film was released on June 6, 2014. After the New York premiere, Evangeline Earl, a student, announced that Green's book, from which the film was adapted, had been inspired by her sister Esther Earl, who had also been an author. Esther had thyroid cancer and died in 2010. Evangeline said Esther had met Green at LeakyCon, a Harry Potter convention held in Boston in 2009. Green said, \"I could never have written \"The Fault in Our Stars\" without knowing Esther. Every word on that book depends on her.\" Green said he used the word \"okay\" in the book and the film because Hazel and Augustus used it to express their love for each other; it becomes a special word between them. The original novel was inspired by the late author Esther Earl, who used the word \"okay\" with her sister Abigail.\n\nThe first trailer was released on January 29, 2014. The trailer had over 3 million views in less than 24 hours, and more than 15 million views in its first seven days. A video clip was shown before the show at the 2014 MTV Movie Awards on April 13. An extended trailer was released on April 28, and Fox released more clips via YouTube as part of the film's pre-release promotion. On April 2, the studio announced the launch of a promotional tour program named Demand Our Stars. Green, Woodley, Elgort, and Wolff would visit the states that got most votes from fans re-blogging their states' map outlines. Four states won: the tour program started in Miami, Florida, on May 6; went to Cleveland, Ohio, on May 7; then went to Nashville, Tennessee, on May 8; and ended in Dallas, Texas, on May 9.\n\n\"The Fault in Our Stars\" was released on DVD and Blu-ray on September 16, 2014. \"The Fault in Our Stars: Little Infinities\" Blu-ray edition features the theatrical 126-minute and extended 133-minute versions of the film, a number of deleted scenes including the John Green cameo, and featurettes. The home video release grossed over $42.6 million in total domestic video sales.\n\n\"The Fault in Our Stars\" received generally positive reviews, with praise aimed at Woodley's and Elgort's performances, and the screenplay. On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 80% based on 209 reviews, with an average rating of 6.9/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Wise, funny, and heartbreaking without resorting to exploitation, \"The Fault in Our Stars\" does right by its bestselling source material.\" Metacritic gave the film a score of 69 out of 100, based on 45 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews.\" At CinemaScore opening day audiences gave the film an \"A\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nSteven Rea of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" gave the film a score of 3 out of 4; he said: \"Woodley ... balances grace with gravity, wit with heart.\" A. O. Scott writing for \"The New York Times\" said: \"The film sets out to make you weepnot just sniffle or choke up a little, but sob until your nose runs and your face turns blotchy. It succeeds.\" \"The Boston Globe's\" Ty Burr gave the film a rating of 2.5 out 4 and said: \"If Elgort's Gus is glibly charming and ultimately affecting, \"The Fault in Our Stars\" belongs to Woodley, a performer who always seems to be backing warily into her own movies.\"\n\nQuickflix's Simon Miraudo rated the film 3/5, and said: \"\"The Fault in Our Stars\" undeniably sets us up to knock us down.\" Richard Roeper of \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film 4 stars. He said Woodley's performance as Hazel was \"transcendent, pure and authentic\", stating that, \"she's that memorable.\" Scott Mendelson of \"Forbes\" magazine said the film is \"exceptionally high-quality mainstream entertainment\" and called it \"a genuine work of art.\" Anna Smith of \"Empire\" said it was a, \"touching romance and Shailene Woodley's best performance yet.\" Emma Dibdin of Digital Spy wrote \"\"The Fault in Our Stars\" is a sharp and emotionally-sophisticated weepie that imbues its teenage characters with rare intelligence, and tackles its bleak subject matter with acerbic wit and tenderness.\" Andy Lea of the \"Daily Star\" said: \"as teen romances go, this is powerful stuff.\" Wilson Morales at \"BlackFilm.com\" praised Woodley and Elgort's performances, saying they: \"are so captivating and genuine in their performances, they manage to make this intensely poignant film very moving, romantic and highly entertaining.\"\n\"Time\" magazine's Richard Corliss wrote: \"Hazel and Augustus will live in film lore because of the young actors who play them.\" Chris Vongar of \"Dallas Morning News\" gave the film a B+ as \"the movie is witty and alive and only very occasionally maudlin.\" \"USA Today\"s Claudia Puig called the film \"well-written, well-acted, acerbic, funny and wisely observed\", giving it 3.5 out of 4. Chris Nashawaty of \"Entertainment Weekly\" called the film a \"funny, sweet, three-hankie tearjerker\" and gave the B grade. Geoff Pevere of \"The Globe and Mail\" said, \"While it may not conform to one's real-life expectations it certainly hews tightly to teen-flick conventions.\" Connie Ogle of \"The Miami Herald\" called it a, \"sweet, romantic film full of sudden warmth and humor.\" A.A. Dowd of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the film a \"B\" saying that it is, \"blessed with sparks of wit and buoyed by the talents of a charismatic cast.\"\n\nPeter Bradshaw of \"The Guardian\" gave the film a negative review, likening it to \"being mugged by a professional whose skills in mixed martial arts you can't help but notice and appreciate, even as you are savagely beaten, then dragged upright, bruised and bleeding, and forced to watch as your assailant gives fully 45% of your money to charity.\" Christy Lemire writing for Roger Ebert's website gave it two stars out of four and criticized the film for being \"emotionally inert, despite its many moments that are meant to put a lump in our throats.\" Lemire criticized Elgort's performance and praised Woodley's \"abiding, disarming naturalism.\" Robbie Collin writing for \"The Daily Telegraph\" said: \"Gus is something of a manic pixie dreamboat: the lesser-spotted male version of the kooky, adoring girlfriend-type sometimes played by Kirsten Dunst, Natalie Portman, and Zooey Deschanel.\" David Edelstein of NPR said: I know people who cried at the trailer of the romantic teen cancer movie \"The Fault in Our Stars\"at the movie they'll need a life preserver to keep from drowning in a flood of tears. Me, I didn't cry, though at times my tear ducts tingled; I was on the verge. The film is a little slick for my taste, too engineered. But it's gently directed by Josh Boone and beautifully acted. Whatever the faults, it's not in the stars. Shalini Langer of \"The Indian Express\" gave the film two and a half stars and said: \"The film is faithful to a fault from the dialogues to the clothes, the setting and the food, even while skipping over some of the unpleasant details.\" Dana Stevens writing for \"Slate Magazine\" said: \"What in the name of God is wrong with me that I didn't cry onceI, who just the day before wept through the entirety of my child's thoroughly upbeat school play.\"\n\nTwo Christian reviewers and some theologians have mentioned the presence of Christian themes in the film. Writing for Catholic News Agency, Robert Barron said: I don’t think it is the least bit accidental that Waters (Gus’s last name) and Grace (Hazel’s middle name) met in the sacred heart of Christ and thereby, despite their shared suffering, managed to give life to one another ... [and so] Hazel effectively repudiates her nihilism and materialism as she responds across the barrier of death to Gus’s 'okay'.\" He also noted: \"[Is] this film a satisfying presentation of Christianity? Hardly. But for those who are struggling to find their way to meaning and faith, it's not an entirely bad place to start.\"\n\nThe film's studio, 20th Century Fox, mounted an unsuccessful campaign to have Shailene Woodley nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress, as well as the film's adapted screenplay.\n\n\"The Fault in Our Stars\" earned $124.9 million in North America and $182.3 million in other countries for a worldwide total of $307.2 million, against a production budget of $12 million.\n\nIn North America, the film's income received a boost from \"The Night Before Our Stars,\" a premium-priced event for which tickets sold for up to $25. The event included a screening of the film and a simulcast question-and-answer session with cast and crew, including Woodley, Elgort, Wolff, and Green. The film earned $8.2 million from Thursday-night showings and $26.1 million on its opening day. During its opening weekend, the film earned $48,002,573 from 3,173 theaters at an average of $15,128 per theater, making it number one in North America.\n\nAt locations outside North America, \"The Fault in Our Stars\" earned $16.59 million from 2,892 screens in 17 markets in its opening weekend, placing at number four behind \"Edge of Tomorrow\" ($81 million), \"Maleficent\" ($61.7 million), and \"\" ($41.1 million). Brazil, Mexico, and Australia generated the highest income with $5.8 million, $3.8 million, and $3.7 million respectively. The following week the film earned $16.1 million from 40 markets, remaining at number 4 again.\n\nOn August 6, 2014, India's Fox Star Studios announced its intention to remake the film. In March 2018, actor Sushant Singh Rajput was announced as the male lead in the official Hindi adaptation of the film. The film also marks the directorial debut of former casting director Mukesh Chhabra. The film, like many Bollywood films, will be a musical, and Oscar winner A.R. Rahman will compose its music. Actress Sanjana Sanghi was announced as the female lead later that month.\n\n"}
{"id": "18426114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18426114", "title": "William Bayard", "text": "William Bayard\n\nWilliam Bayard (21 August 1814 – 17 December 1907) was a distinguished physician in New Brunswick. He was the son of Dr. Robert Bayard, also a noted physician and author.\n\nBayard was born in Kentville, Nova Scotia, and received his medical training in New York State and at the University of Edinburgh. He received his MD in 1837. He then practiced medicine with his father, Robert Bayard, in Saint John, New Brunswick and continued the practice after his father's death. He was the coroner of that city for 30 years.\n"}
