{"id": "31024052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31024052", "title": "Accident Towing Services Act", "text": "Accident Towing Services Act\n\nThe Accident Towing Services Act 2007 (the Act) is a law enacted by the Parliament of the State of Victoria, Australia. The Act is the prime statute regulating the vehicle towing industry which provides towing and recovery services for light and heavy road vehicles across Victoria. It is predominately founded on safety and consumer protection sentiments. The Act continued economic controls over the industry and contains occupational regulation characteristics. The style of the underlying regulatory scheme varies in parts and represents a blend which is prescriptive in some parts and performance and process-based in others.\n\nThe Accident Towing Services Act was the first dedicated statute regulating Victoria's towing industry and replaced provisions in the former Transport Act 1983. The Act generally strengthened the scheme of regulation for accident towing activity in Victoria and, at the same time, deregulated trade towing industry controls. In essence, towing vehicles damaged in a road accident and the individuals working in that sector are subject to tight controls while trade towing activities such as breakdown towing have few controls.\n\nThe Accident Towing Services Act was passed by the Victorian Parliament on 17 July 2007 and commenced on 1 January 2009. The Act was developed as part of the Transport Legislation Review conducted by the Department of Transport and is aimed at promoting the safe, efficient and timely provision of towing and related services particularly following road accidents.\n\nThe Act forms part of the transport policy and legislation framework in Victoria headed by the Transport Integration Act. As a result, the application of the Accident Towing Services is subject to the overarching transport system vision, transport system objectives and decision-making principles set out in the Transport Integration Act.\n\nThe responsible Victorian Government Minister for the Accident Towing Services Act is the Minister for Roads.\n\nThe stated objective of the Accident Towing Services Act is twofold. First, the Act seeks to promote the safe, efficient and timely provision of accident towing and related services. Second, the Act seeks to ensure that the persons who provide accident towing services are of appropriate character.\n\nThe Act is also aimed at ensuring that the persons in the industry are technically competent to provide accident towing services. The statute also requires that those persons act with integrity and in a manner that is safe, timely and efficient when providing the services. Emphasis is also placed on the need for regard to be had to vulnerable persons in recognition of the shock and trauma that typically afflicts persons involved in road accidents.\n\nThe scheme in the Accident Towing Services Act broadly sets economic, occupational and general consumer protection controls over the accident towing industry in Victoria.\n\nFirst, the statute enables maximum numbers of accident towing vehicles to be set across the State through licensing controls and also facilitates the orderly allocation of tow trucks to road accident sites. Second, the Act sets minimum standards on the character of industry participants and regulates the behaviour of the participants once they enter the industry.\n\nThe framework of offences in the Act broadly seeks to give practical effect to the \"chain of responsibility\" concept in the accident towing sector. The concept seeks to identify the industry parties who are in a sufficient position of control over risks, in this case potentially unsafe and unethical conduct following road accidents, and to allocate responsibility through law accordingly in order to deter and punish those behaviours in the interest of a safe, clean and efficient industry.\n\nThe behavioural controls in the Act cover a wide range of activities and practices including the systematic allocation of tow trucks to accident sites in \"controlled areas\" and conduct at road accident sites and during post accident repair work.\n\nThe scheme was broadly prompted by consumer protection sentiment, in particular, the recognition of the vulnerability of road accident victims. Care was evident during the development of the scheme to maintain and enhance existing character standards in the accident towing sector due to behavioural issues in Victoria in the past including the infiltration of criminal elements into some areas of the industry and resultant \"predatory towing\" activities.\n\nIn broad terms, the Accident Towing Services Act regulates the accident towing industry in Victoria by -\n\n\nThe Accident Towing Services Act is divided into eight parts - \n\nThe Accident Towing Services Act regulates the accident towing services sector in Victoria. The statute defines the sector as the service of operating tow trucks for the purposes of towing vehicles to places following road accidents or towing for the purposes of clearing road accident scenes.\n\nPart 4 of the Accident Towing Services Act establishes a licensing scheme for accident tow trucks. The Act makes it an offence for a person to operate a tow truck for accident towing purposes unless the person who provides the service has a \"regular tow truck licence\". In addition, the person must operate the truck from a depot specified in the licence and must hold a towing operator accreditation. The tow truck must be registered and be capable of being used for towing services activity.\n\nIt is an offence under the Act for a person to drive an unlicensed accident tow truck or a tow truck that is inacapable of being used in accident towing work (for example, a tow truck cannot be incapable of towing generally or incapable of towing a vehicle which has a gross vehicle mass of less than 4 tonnes).\n\nProhibitions exist in the Act against tow trucks attending accident scenes unless the vehicle is licensed. The offence does not apply if the vehicle attends for the purposes of salvage work only and will not therefore be involved in the act of towing the vehicle from the road accident scene.\n\nThe Act positions VicRoads as the prime agency able to issue both regular and heavy accident towing licences. However, authorisation to issue licences must be obtained first from the Minister who is conferred with power by the Act to authorise the issuing of regular tow truck licences for particular areas of the State. The Minister can only make such an authorisation if she or she considers it to be in the public interest having regard to any increase in the need for tow trucks in the relevant area. Alternatively, the authorisation can be made if the licences are to replace existing licences or exceptional circumstances justify the issue of new licences. Similar tests apply to the Minister's decision about the numbers of heavy tow truck licences which are to be made available.\n\nSpecial rules apply to the issue of regular and heavy tow truck licences used for the provision of accident towing services on the CityLink and EastLink toll roads. Ministerial authorisations for the issue of licences must be published in the Government Gazette and must specify the number of licences to be issued.\n\nManagement of the tow truck licensing process under the Act is the responsibility of VicRoads, Victoria's prime road management and safety agency. VicRoads is required to issue a public notice advising of the towing licences to be issued, list the procedures to be followed, and state whether the price is to be determined by fixed price or tender and provide other details. Designated procedures apply during the issuing process.\n\nPart 2 of the Act provides a number of criminal offences relating to the operation of accident tow trucks. The offences include -\n\n\nMembers of the Victoria Police and VicRoads' authorised officers are given power under the Act to direct a person to leave a restricted road accident site area (an area within a 500-metre radius of an accident damaged vehicle) if the person is causing an unwarranted obstruction to traffic, hindering efforts to attend to any injured persons or damaged property or is otherwise hindering or obstructing the orderly towing of a motor vehicle from a road accident site. A direction may be given to a tow truck driver, the holder of a tow truck licence or a person engaged in vehicle repair work or persons acting on behalf of those persons. It is an offence to fail to comply with a direction.\n\nVicRoads is empowered under the Act to attach conditions to the tow truck licences it issues. Breach of a condition is an offence. A tow truck licence is specified to be the property of the holder of the licence. Despite this, licence holders are prohibited from assigning or renting the licence to another person. Licences are, however, able to be transferred to other persons whereupon special procedural requirements apply.\n\nThe Act provides capacity for VicRoads to cancel or suspend tow truck licences if operators fail to comply with licence conditions or do not comply with a provision of the Act or other relevant Acts such as the Road Safety Act 1986.\n\nPart 3 of the Accident Towing Services Act makes provision for an accreditation scheme for management participants in the accident towing industry. A person must not conduct an accident towing service business or be the manager of an accident towing depot unless the person holds an accredtitation issued by VicRoads. Part 3 contains provisions relating to the mechanics of these schemes including VicRoads' powers to issue accreditation. The Part also contains a scheme which seeks to regulate character requirements as part of the accreditation process particularly through the specification of a range of criminal offences which, if they form part of an applicant's background, can result in mandatory or discretionary refusal of accreditation by VicRoads. The Part also enables VicRoads to attach conditions to an accreditation. In addition, the Part confers power on the Minister to set service standards to be met by holders of accreditation. The standards may cover matters such as complaints handling and the provision of information to VicRoads relating to complaints.\n\nThe Part also contains power for VicRoads to take disciplinary action against an accredited person if VicRoads is satisfied that the person has contravened the Act, committed a listed offence, contravened a condition of a tow truck licence or an accreditation or if the action is appropriate having regard to the objective of accreditation. The disciplinary action that may be taken by VicRoads includes suspension or cancellation of accreditation, a direction that the person must undergo training or at the giving of a warning.\n\nThe Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal is given power by the Act to review decisions made by VicRoads under Part 3 including in relation to refusal of accreditation and cancellation.\n\nPart 4 of the Accident Towing Services Act contains provision for a tow truck driver accreditation scheme. The scheme is similar to the scheme set out in Part 3 for management participants in the accident towing industry. For example, it is an offence for a person to drive an accident tow truck or to accompany the driver of an accident tow truck unless the person holds an accreditation issued by VicRoads. Power exists in the Part for VicRoads to suspend a tow truck driver accreditation without a show cause process if VicRoads believes on reasonable grounds that the action is in the public interest.\n\nProvision is also made under Part 4 of the Act for VicRoads to issue a tow truck driver trainee permit, a permission which enables a person to accompany a tow truck driver for the purposes of being trained as a driver or to gain knowledge of the towing industry.\n\nPart 5 of the Act contains a range of provisions which are integral to the accident towing regulation scheme.\n\nA tow truck driver is prohibited from towing a vehicle from a road accident scene unless the driver has obtained an authorisation to tow that vehicle. Strict conditions apply to the issue and carriage of an authority to tow. The driver is obliged to tow the vehicle to the place specified in the authority.\n\nConduct at accident scenes is tightly regulated by the Act. For example, any person at an accident scene or at any time between the time the vehicle is towed from an accident scene and the time when the vehicle is first stored must not tout or solicit for the business of repairing the vehicle or offer or seek to reach an agreement about a quotation or the repair of the vehicle. Persons are also prohibited from touting or soliciting for the towing or storage of a damaged vehicle at an accident site or attempting to reach an agreement in respect of such matters.\n\nThe storage and repair of vehicles damaged in road accidents is tightly controlled by the Act.\n\nThe vehicle must be towed to the place specified in the authority to tow and be stored in a secure area. Tow truck licence holders are required to provide a written notice stating the charges which apply to the storage of the vehicle. Persons are prohibited by the Act from receiving payment to obtain repair work or as payment for hand over of an accident damaged motor vehicle to another person for that purpose.\n\nThe Act also contains a number of obligations on vehicle repairers. A person must not commence or carry our repair work on an accident damaged motor vehicle without approval in writing. If work commences without authority the person conducting the work is unable to take legal action to commence any sum or charge relating to the work or any quote prepared in relation to the work.\n\nThe Act also gives owners of damaged motor vehicles the benefit of a \"cooling off period\" in recognition that they may have made an arrangement for repair of the vehicle following an accident without the opportunity to think clearly about the matter due to trauma or shock. The owner of the vehicle is therefore given three working days after signing an agreement to repair an accident damaged motor vehicle to terminate that agreement and without the owner being liable for costs.\n\nThe Act also makes it clear that the owner of an accident damaged motor vehicle is not liable for repairs to the vehicle which are conducted at a place other than that nominated in the authority to tow. Finally, it is an offence for a person in control of the place where an accident damaged motor vehicle was towed to refuse to release a vehicle or to frustrate or obstruct its release. It is, however, a defence if the vehicle owner authorised work on the vehicle and towing or storage charges are outstanding.\n\nSpecial requirements apply to repairers in relation to accident towing services in a controlled area. A repairier cannot begin a quote for repairs without confirming details with the allocation body. Other paperwork requirements are also set out in the Act in relation to repairs relating to tows in the controlled area.\n\nThe strictest controls in the Accident Towing Services Act affect the capacity of accident tow trucks to operate in particular areas apply in relation to \"controlled areas\", basically most of the areas of the cities of Melbourne and Geelong where behavioural problems in the industry have been greatest in the past.\n\nVicRoads is given power under the Act to declare controlled areas for the purposes of the Act and to appoint a person or body to act as the allocation body for those areas. A licence holder and driver commits an offence if the persons attend an accident scene in a controlled area or tow or attempt to tow a damaged vehicle unless the allocation body has authorised attendance at the accident scene and the towing activity. Each accident tow truck licence entitles the holder of the licence to one place on the roster if a specified depot is attached to the licence. A roster entitlement is not able to be transferred to another operator.\n\nThe areas of Victoria outside of the controlled areas are called self-management areas. Licence holders are unable to attend accidents in self-management areas and conduct tows in those areas unless authorised under the Act. VicRoads is given power under the Act to declare self-management areas for the purposes of the Act.\n\nEnforcement-related provisions supporting the Accident Towing Services Act scheme are set out in Part 6 of the Act. The Act can be enforced by officers of the Victoria Police and authorised officers appointed by VicRoads. The enforcement scheme centres on provisions enabling the appointment of authorised officers, the conferral of certain coercive powers and the availability of a range of administrative and court-based sanctions.\n\nThe key elements of the enforcement scheme are - \n\nPart 7 of the Act makes provision for the Minister to approve codes of practice for the purpose of providing practical guidance under the Act. Compliance with a codes of practice can act as a safe harbour for persons in the towing industry although failure to comply with a provision in a code does not create any criminal or civil liability.\n\nPart 8 of the Act contains a number of miscellaneous provisions relating to the accident towing services scheme. Subjects dealt with in the part include -\n\nThe responsible regulator for the application, administration and enforcement of the Accident Towing Services Act in Victoria and therefore for the regulation of the accident towing industry is the Roads Corporation or VicRoads. VicRoads took over this responsibility from the Victorian Taxi Directorate, a business unit located in the office of the Director of Public Transport attached to the Department of Transport, in late 2006 during the final stages of the development of the Act proposal. The transfer of responsibility occurred after the creation of a new Ministry of Roads and Ports which separated those portfolios from the former Transport Ministry (a separate Ministry of Public Transport was also created at this time).\n\nThe development of the proposal for the Accident Towing Services was managed by the former Department of Infrastructure in Victoria. The successor to the Department of Infrastructure in transport matters was the Department of Transport. The Department managed the project as part of its broader Transport Legislation Review.\n\nThe Department held a series of workshops with Victoria's towing industry and issued discussion papers outlining the broad policy features of a proposed new regulatory scheme. The papers raised a series of concerns about the former towing industry framework and aspects of the industry's performance including concerns about under regulation and over regulation in particular areas. Comments were requested from industry parties and other interested stakeholders. Comments received from industry, government and other stakeholders resulted in the refinement of the proposal prior to its approval by the Victorian Government and presentation to Parliament as proposed legislation.\n\nUltimately, the proposals for a new regulatory scheme were introduced to the Victorian Parliament as proposed legislation in mid April 2007.\n\nThe Accident Towing Services Bill was introduced into the lower house of the Victorian Parliament, the Legislative Assembly, as the Accident Towing Services Bill. The responsible Minister for the proposal was the then Minister for Roads and Ports, the Hon Tim Pallas MP.\n\nThe Minister moved the second reading of the Accident Towing Services on 19 April 2007. The Minister set the context for the Bill in his speech in support as follows -\n\nThe speech also contained an observation on the main change brought about by the new regulatory scheme -\n\nThe Minister also made observations about the strengthening of existing regulatory requirements provided for in the Bill -\n\nReflections were contained in the speech about the responsibilities owed by industry participants to vulnerable road accident victims -\n\nThe Minister also commented in the following terms about the deregulation of the trade towing sector provided in the Bill -\n\nThe Minister commented that -\n\nThe Minister concluded his speech in support of the Accident Towing Services Bill by observing that -\n\nThe Bill was considered and passed by the lower house of the Victorian Parliament, the Legislative Assembly, on 19 June 2007. The Bill was introduced into the upper house, the Legislative Council, on the same day. Second reading was moved in the upper house the next day, 20 June, and the proposal ultimately debated and passed on 17 July 2007. 2 March 2006.\n\nThe Accident Towing Services Bill received the Royal Assent on 24 July 2007 to become the Accident Towing Services Act 2007. The Act commenced on its default commencement day, 1 January 2010.\n\nThe Accident Towing Services Regulations 2007 which were required to support the operation of the Act also operated from the same date thereby formally commencing the scheme.\n\nNo significant changes have been made to the Accident Towing Services Act since it commenced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39246512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39246512", "title": "Administration of justice", "text": "Administration of justice\n\nThe administration of justice is the process by which the legal system of a government is executed. The presumed goal of such administration is to provide justice for all those accessing the legal system. The phrase is also used commonly to describe a University degree (as in: a BA in Administration of Justice), which can be a prerequisite for a job in law enforcement or government.\n\nIn \"Attorney General for New South Wales v Love\", the appellant argued that section 24 of the Act 9 Geo 4 c 83 did not have the effect applying the Nullum Tempus Act (9 Geo 3 c 16) (1768) to New South Wales. Counsel for the appellant said that \"Whicker v Hume\" decided that section 24 referred not to laws generally, but only to laws as to modes of procedure, and that the Nullum Tempus Act did not deal merely with procedure. The Lord Chancellor said that the Act 9 Geo 4 c 83 \"prima facie\" \"applied the Nullum Tempus Act to the Colony in question as much as if it had re-enacted it for that Colony.\" He then said:\n\nSection 92(14) of the Constitution Act, 1867, also known as the administration of justice power, grants the provincial legislatures of Canada the authority to legislate on:\n\nSection 1 of the Administration of Justice Act (RSO 1990 c A6) provides:\n\nThis provision was previously section 1 of the Administration of Justice Act (RSO 1980 c 6), which was previously section 1 of Administration of Justice Act (RSO 1970 c 6), which was previously section 1 of Administration of Justice Act 1968 (SO 1968 c 1) (17 Eliz 2 c 1). Queen's printer copies of the Statutes of the Province of Ontario 1968 describe this provision as \"new\". This statute replaced the Administration of Justice Expenses Act (RSO 1960 c 5).\n\n\"Offence against the administration of justice\" is defined by section 7 of the Criminal Procedure Act 2010.\n\nIn England, the administration of justice is a prerogative of the Crown. It may be exercised only through duly-appointed judges and courts.\n\nThe following matters and things pertain to the administration of justice: the organisation of the courts; the prerogative of justice, the prerogative of mercy, and any prerogative power to create new courts; nolle prosequi; the appointment, tenure and immunity of judges; the immunity of other participants in legal proceedings; contempt of court; the composition and availability of juries, any requirement that their verdict be unanimous, and the allowances they receive; the branches of the legal profession; and the provision of legal aid and advice.\n\nThe administration of justice is an act which is normally associated with the carrying on of the business of government. When a government does that act, it is thereby exercising its sovereignty. It would accordingly be a violation of British sovereignty for a foreign government to do that act in British territory without authorisation. Section 2 of the Visiting Forces Act 1952 authorises foreign service courts to exercise their jurisdiction in the United Kingdom.\n\nThere are offences against the administration of justice.\n\nFor the purpose of section 54 of the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996, the following are administration of justice offences:\n\nThe offence of perverting the course of justice has been referred to as \"interfering with the administration of justice\" and as \"obstructing the administration of justice\".\n\nSection 6(c) of the Contempt of Court Act 1981 provides that nothing in the foregoing provisions of that Act restricts liability for contempt of court in respect of conduct intended to impede or prejudice the administration of justice.\n\nAn arrestable offence, other than one specified in Schedule 5 to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, was serious for the purposes of that Act if it led to, or was intended or likely to lead to, amongst other things, serious interference with the administration of justice. An arrestable offence which consisted of making a threat was serious for the purposes of that Act if carrying out the threat would be likely to lead to, amongst other things, serious interference with the administration of justice.\n\nIn any legal proceedings held in public, the court may, where it appears to be necessary for avoiding a substantial risk of prejudice to the administration of justice in those proceedings, or in any other proceedings pending or imminent, order that the publication of any report of the proceedings, or any part of the proceedings, be postponed for such period as the court thinks necessary for that purpose.\n\nInformation which is not exempt information by virtue of section 30 of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 is exempt information if its disclosure under that Act would, or would be likely to, prejudice the administration of justice.\n\nRoscoe Pound said: \"Dissatisfaction with the administration of justice is as old as the law\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "323614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323614", "title": "American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man", "text": "American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man\n\nThe American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, also known as the Bogota Declaration, was the world's first international human rights instrument of a general nature, predating the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by less than a year.\n\nThe Declaration was adopted by the nations of the Americas at the Ninth International Conference of American States in Bogotá, Colombia, in April 1948, where we can find most of its travaux préparatoires. The same meeting that adopted the Charter of the Organization of American States and thereby created the OAS.\n\nChapter One of the Declaration sets forth a catalogue of civil and political rights to be enjoyed by the citizens of the signatory nations, together with additional economic, social, and cultural rights due to them. As a corollary, its second chapter contains a list of corresponding duties. As explained in the preamble:<br>\n\nAlthough strictly speaking a declaration is not a legally binding treaty, the jurisprudence of both the Inter-American Court of Human Rights and the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights holds it to be a source of binding international obligations for the OAS's member states. While largely superseded in the current practice of the inter-American human rights system by the more elaborate provisions of the American Convention on Human Rights (in force since 18 July 1978), the terms of the Declaration are still enforced with respect to those states that have not ratified the Convention, such as Cuba, United States, and Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "4100262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4100262", "title": "Association of Muslim Lawyers", "text": "Association of Muslim Lawyers\n\nThe Association of Muslim Lawyers (AML) is an organisation in the United Kingdom which campaigns for legal rights for Muslims and others, and to aid Muslims working in the legal professions.\n"}
{"id": "47075029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47075029", "title": "Australian insolvency law", "text": "Australian insolvency law\n\nAustralian insolvency law regulates the position of companies which are in financial distress and are unable to pay or provide for all of their debts or other obligations, and matters ancillary to and arising from financial distress. The law in this area is principally governed by the Corporations Act 2001. Under Australian law, the term insolvency is usually used with reference to companies, and bankruptcy is used in relation to individuals. Insolvency law in Australia tries to seek an equitable balance between the competing interests of debtors, creditors and the wider community when debtors are unable to meet their financial obligations. The aim of the legislative provisions is to provide:\n\nA company, partnership, or trust with multiple trustees, is legally insolvent if it is not able to pay its their debts, as and when they become due and payable. Solvency and insolvency are defined so as to be mutually exclusive.\n\nThe common law has also established various indicators of insolvency. These indicators include amongst others:\n\nIn certain circumstances a debtor may be presumed to be insolvent without the need to actually prove financial insolvency. A company will be presumed to be insolvent if, during or after the three months preceding the day on which an application was made for the winding-up of the company, any one of the following six situations occurs.\n\nA popular way for a creditor to prove that a company is insolvent is to serve a statutory demand pursuant to section 459E of the Corporations Act. Issuing and serving a statutory demand is a relatively simple and inexpensive process when compared against proving actual financial insolvency. Statutory demands are regulated by Part 5.4, Divisions 2 and 3 of the Corporations Act, and the Courts require that the regime be strictly adhered to. Because a company will irrebuttably be presumed to insolvent where a statutory demand is not complied with, the Court requires creditors to ensure that demands are expressed in clear, accurate and unambiguous terms. Even a small error may result in the statutory demand being set aside by the Court. The statute specifies the form of the demand, and requires that the demand must:\n\nIn relation to the debt to which the demand relates:\nThe demand must be served on the company by leaving it at its registered office, sending it by post to that office, or delivering a copy of the demand personally to the director of the company.\n\nUpon being served with a valid demand, the debtor may either pay the debt, or secure or compound the debt to the creditor's reasonable satisfaction. Failure to do so within 21 days (unless an extension is granted) will mean that insolvency of the debtor is presumed and the creditor may use that presumption in order to make a winding-up application to the Court.\n\nA debtor company can also apply to set aside a statutory demand on various grounds. These include:\n\nVarious cases in Australia have decided what a genuine dispute is, and is not. A genuine dispute should:\n\n\nA genuine dispute should not:\n\n\nYou may also set aside a statutory demand if you have an offsetting claim.\n\nSection 459H(1)(b) of the \"Corporations Act 2001\" (Cth) says:\n\n\"(1) This section applies where, on an application under section 459G, the Court is satisfied…\"\n\n\"(b) that the company has an offsetting claim.\"\n\nThen goes on to define an offsetting claim to mean:\n\n\"“offsetting claim” means a genuine claim that the company has against the respondent by way of counterclaim, set-off or cross-demand (even if it does not arise out of the same transaction or circumstances as a debt to which the demand relates).\"\n\nThis means that any claim that you have against the person/company issuing the demand, can be used to set aside the demand.  Especially if the offsetting claim means that the offset total of the demand drops below the statutory minimum.\n\nA statutory demand can also be set aside pursuant to section 459J(1)(a) if \"because of a defect in the demand, substantial injustice will be caused unless the demand is set aside.\"\n\nSection 9 of the \"Corporations Act\" defines the word “defect” to mean:\n\n\"“defect“, in relation to a statutory demand, includes:\"\n\n\"(a)  an irregularity; and\"\n\n\"(b)  a misstatement of an amount or total; and\"\n\n\"(c)  a misdescription of a debt or other matter; and\"\n\n\"(d)  a misdescription of a person or entity.\"\n\nHowever, a simple defect is not enough to allow the demand to be set aside, it must cause substantial injustice.\n\nThere are a number of cases in Australia which have decided what a defect in a demand which will cause substantial injustice is. Some examples of this are:\n\n\nThere are also cases in Australia which have decided that certain defects in the demand do not cause substantial injustice. Some examples are:\n\n\nIf a company fails to satisfy a statutory demand, or have it set aside, then it is presumed to be insolvent. The company requires leave of the court to before it can challenge the debt in opposing an application to wind up the company. The effect of the presumption is that the company has to prove that it is solvent.\n\nOn the 19th October 2017 The Australian Federal Parliament proposed a bill is to reduce the period of bankruptcy from three years to one year. According to this bill, after one year, a person will not be required to disclose his status as bankrupt .\nFurthermore, it states that after one year, a bankrupt would be able to travel without prior permission.\n\nLiquidation is the process whereby the assets of a company are collected and realised by a liquidator, and the proceeds are subsequently applied to discharge all relevant debts and liabilities in accordance with the priorities set by law. Any balance which may remain after paying the costs and expenses of winding-up is then distributed among the members according to their respective rights and interests.\n\nA company may be wound up on either a voluntary basis or on a compulsory basis.\n\nThere are three different types of winding-up:\n\nA members' voluntary winding-up is not technically an insolvency process. It is a voluntary liquidation entered into by the members where the company is not insolvent. The process is initiated by a special resolution of the company, and the creditors have no direct involvement and are repaid in full. The directors are required to give a declaration as to the solvency of the company which must be filed with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC).\n\nWhere a liquidator who is appointed pursuant to a members' voluntary winding-up subsequently determines that the company is in fact insolvent in his opinion (contrary to the solvency declaration made by the board of directors), then the liquidator must either (a) apply to the Court for the company to be wound-up on an insolvent basis, (b) appoint an administrator to the company, or (c) convene a meeting of creditors. If a meeting of the creditors is convened, then from the time of the meeting the winding-up will be treated as a creditors' voluntary winding-up.\n\nA creditors' voluntary winding-up is also initiated by the members but (in contrast to a members' voluntary winding-up) where it has been determined that the company is insolvent. The process normally occurs where the board of directors has determined that the company is insolvent and then recommended to the members that it be wound up. However, as noted above, it may also be initiated by a liquidator was originally appointed pursuant to members voluntary winding-up where the liquidator has subsequently formed the opinion that the company is actually insolvent.\n\nA compulsory liquidation is usually the result of an action taken by one or more creditors of an insolvent company. Compulsory liquidation is a statutory procedure which enables a person to apply to the Court for an order that the affairs of a company be wound-up. A number of different people have \"locus standi\" to initiate compulsory liquidation proceedings, including not only the company's creditors (who are the most common applicants), but also the company itself, the company's members, the liquidator, ASIC and (in respect of a general insurance company) the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA). But in most cases compulsory liquidation will normally be commenced by one or more creditors.\n\nIn a compulsory winding up, the day on which the relevant Court order is made will constitute the date of the commencement of the winding up. The date on which the application to wind up the company was filed is called the \"relation-back day\".\nWhether the liquidation process is initiated by an order of the Court or through a creditors' voluntary winding up, a liquidator will be appointed to administer the winding up of the affairs of the company.\n\nThe liquidator is the principal officer of the company who is appointed to conduct the winding-up process. Where the company is insolvent, the liquidation will invariable be an accountant who is an insolvency professional.\n\nIn a compulsory winding up the Court will appoint the liquidator to the company. Generally it will act upon the nomination of the party making the application. In a voluntary winding up, the liquidator will be appointed by the members or creditors of a company. Liquidators are required to be members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Australia or CPA Australia. They must be an independent person and be seen to be fully independent.\n\nThe liquidator's role has been described as a hybrid role with elements of fiduciary trustee, agent, officer of the corporation and in some instances officer of the Court. The liquidator owes fiduciary duties to the company, its creditors and members. The liquidator is required to act honestly, fairly and impartially at all times, and must avoid any conflicts of interest.\n\nLiquidators should exercise their powers and discharge their duties with the degree of care and diligence that a reasonable person would exercise if they were a director or officer of a corporation if the corporation's circumstances and occupied the office held by, and had the same responsibilities within the corporation as, the director or officer.\n\nUpon the appointment of the liquidator, all of the powers of the directors are suspended and the company itself will cease to carry on business except to the extent that the liquidator believes it will assist the beneficial disposal of the business. The liquidator will take over operation of the company and can deal with the property of the company. \nThe functions of the liquidator are to:\n\nLiquidators are subject to a number of duties, including fiduciary duties to the company itself. In relation to the administration of the liquidation the statutory duties of the liquidator include:\n\nThe liquidator is entitled to all the assets belonging to the company at the commencement of the winding up. But:\n\nAny property of the company which is disposed of after the deemed commencement of winding-up (other than by the liquidator in the exercise of his or her powers) is void unless validated by the Court.\n\nAny property of the company which is subject to a valid security interest is not considered part of the insolvent estate, and the insolvency process does not prevent a secured creditor from enforcing their rights over the relevant collateral.\n\nThe liquidator also has power to disclaim any onerous property or contracts of the company in liquidation with the leave of the Court. Any damages due to a counterparty to a contract which has been disclaimed may be proved as a debt in the winding-up.\n\nAny creditor wishing to make a claim with respect to a debt due from the company must formally make and prove the claim in accordance with the regulations. A secured creditor will not normally make a claim in the liquidation unless there is a shortfall in the collateral provided by the insolvent company. However, if a secured creditor wishes to do so, it may release its security, and claim in the winding-up for the full amount.\n\nWhere there are mutual debts between the company and any of its creditors when the company goes into winding-up then those debts will set-off. However a creditor is not entitled to claim the benefit of insolvency set-off if, at the time of giving or receiving credit to or from the company, the creditor had notice of the fact that the company was insolvent. Mutual debts are only capable of being set-off if each party is the beneficial owner of each debt (set-off is not available where the debt is owed to one person as agent for another, or where the debt has been assigned or secured in favour of a third party).\n\nWhere any of the assets of the company are subject to a valid security interest (not being a floating charge), those claims will normally be enforced against the assets outside of (and in priority to) the liquidation process. The priority of unsecured claims to the assets of the company in a liquidation is regulated by section 556 of the Corporations Act. The rules are very detailed, but broadly they provide that:\n\nAll ordinary unsecured creditors ranks equally between themselves, and within each rank of preferred creditors, the preferred creditors rank equally.\n\nIn the relevant provisions: \n\"\"Deferred expenses\" means, broadly, the fees and expenses properly incurred by a relevant authority.\n\"Relevant authority\" means a liquidator or provisional liquidator, administrator or administrator of a deed of company arrangement.\n\"Retrenchment payment\" means an amount payable to the employee by virtue of an industrial instrument in respect of the termination of the employee's employment by the company. \n\"Industrial instrument\"\" is defined in section 9 of the statute as (a) a contract of employment; or (b) a law, award, determination or agreement relating to terms or conditions of employment.\n\nIf the company is potentially salvageable with a realistic prospect of surviving its financial difficulties, a company may seek to enter into a non-liquidation arrangement. The two principal types are voluntary administration and deeds of company arrangement. These forms of administration are considered when the debtor company is insolvent or likely to become insolvent. Unlike receivership (which is usually initiated by a secured creditor) these two forms of administration are normally initiated by the company itself.\n\nVoluntary administrations and deeds of company arrangement are regulated under Part 5.3A of the Corporations Act. The purpose is to provide for the business, property and affairs of an insolvent company to be administered in a way that:\n\nVoluntary administration commences from the time when an administrator is appointed, and usually ends either upon the execution by the company of a deed of company arrangement or a resolution by the creditors that the company should be wound up.\n\nAn administrator may be appointed by:\nUpon their appointment an administrator is obliged to lodge a notice of appointment with ASIC in order to provide notification that the company is under external administration. The administrator must also publish a notice of appointment in a newspaper. Once an administrator is appointed, any use of the company's name must be followed by the words \"(Administrator Appointed)\".\n\nWhere the company is to survive as a going concern the aim of the voluntary administration process is the entering into of a deed of company arrangement. If a deed of company arrangement is executed it will lead to another administration, governed by the terms of the deed of company arrangement . Although both administrations are dealt with under the same part of the statute, the two are actually separate processes.\n\nAn administrator must be a registered liquidator who gives consent in writing to accept their appointment. Various persons are disqualified from acting as a company's administrator, including creditors with an interest in the company over $5000, a director, secretary or employee of the company, a director, secretary or employee of a company that is a mortgagee to the company's property, or an auditor of the company.\n\nThe core role of the administrator is outlined in the legislation. Whilst a company is under administration, the administrator:\n\nThe administrator is also required to investigate the affairs of the company and consider any possible causes of action and report to creditors. As soon as practicable after the administration of a company begins, the administrator must:\n\nIn carrying out these tasks the administrator acts as agent of the company. As such, the administrator has broad powers to deal with the company's property and carry on the company's business. The administrator is also entitled to the company's books and the officers of the company have an obligation to hand over any books in their possession. The directors are also required to provide the administrator with a statement about the company's business, property, affairs and financial circumstances within one week of the administrator being appointed, and must assist the administrator whenever reasonably required.\n\nThe principal effects of voluntary administration are:\n\nIf the administrator, in good faith, makes a payment or enters into a transaction, that act is valid and effectual for the purposes of the Corporations Act and cannot be set aside in a subsequent winding up of the company.\n\nA deed of company arrangement is also a type of administration. But unlike a scheme of arrangement it is not a standalone process. A deed of company arrangement is broadly a compromise agreement entered into between the company and its creditors that follows on from a voluntary administration, much like a company voluntary arrangement.\n\nWhere a deed of company arrangement is agreed to by creditors, it will normally result in a successful financial restructuring of the company. Alternatively, less commonly, the deed of company arrangement sometimes simply operates as a way to maximise the benefits of the creditors over the short term. During the operation of the deed of company arrangement a company normally continues to trade, however any debts incurred after the execution of the deed of company arrangement are not covered by the deed, and are treated as expenses of the administration process.\n\nAn administrator of the deed of company arrangement must be appointed, and this will usually be the former administrator from the voluntary administration continuing in office. The Corporations Act permits a great deal flexibility in relation to the deed of company arrangement. The deed of company arrangement may involve a simple moratorium for a fixed period, or a composition of creditors' claims whereby creditors agree to accept a cram down, or a plan to pay creditors in deferred instalments, or some combination of these things.\n\nThe main aim of a deed of company arrangement is to try and produce a better outcome for all parties than would result upon a liquidation. There are a number of advantages which can potentially arise from a consensual deed of company arrangement. The principal advantage for the company is normally that it can continue to trade during the deed of company arrangement period and may be able to survive its financial difficulties. In addition, for the company and its directors:\nThe primary benefit for the company's creditors is that there is a potential for a better dividend than what the creditors would otherwise receive if the company were to be broken up and wound-up by a liquidator. Other potential advantages of a deed of company arrangement for the company's creditors are:\n\nOnce a deed of company arrangement is executed, the administration of the company ends and the moratorium restrictions that apply to creditors come to an end and are replaced by the deed of company arrangement's moratorium provisions.\n\nThe deed of company arrangement binds the deed administrator, the company and its officers and the members of the company and releases the company from its debts to the extent provided by the deed of company arrangement. If a creditor fails to lodge a proof of debt in the administration of a deed of company arrangement, that creditor may be prevented from participating in any distribution of the fund created by deed of company arrangement.\n\nThe company is bound by the terms of the deed of company arrangement throughout the term of its operation. The company will also be required to change all public documents by inserting the words \"(Subject To A Deed Of Company Arrangement)\" after its name. In exceptional circumstances the Court may order that this requirement may be dispensed with.\n\nWhen the voluntary administration of the company ends and the deed of company arrangement comes into effect, and the powers of the directors are resurrected. However, the deed of company arrangement binds the directors of the company. The deed of company arrangement also binds all creditors in so far as they possess any claims arising before the effective date referred to in the deed of company arrangement. Creditor's claims are normally compromised to some degree under the terms of a deed of company arrangement in order to preserve the company as a going concern. Accordingly, a creditor who is bound by a deed of company arrangement will be unable to subsequently apply for a winding-up order against the company in respect of those claims.\n\nSecured creditors can continue to deal with their own security and are generally not bound by the terms of a deed of company arrangement unless they have expressly consented to it.\n\nThe liquidator of a company may in some cases seek to claw back the benefit of transactions which the company undertook during the \"twilight period\" prior to the commencement of the winding-up. These are generally referred to as \"voidable transactions\". The aim of the division is to protect \"the interests of unsecured creditors which might otherwise be prejudiced by a company disposing of assets or incurring liabilities or entering into unrealistic loans shortly before winding up\".\n\nThere are several different types of voidable transactions:\n\nUnfair preferences and uncommercial transactions are collectively referred to as \"insolvent transactions\" because of the requirement that the company must have been insolvent and the time they were entered into, or caused the company to become insolvent.\n\nInsolvent transactions are transactions entered into by a company whilst insolvent, or transactions entered into by the company the result of which caused the company to become insolvent. An insolvent transaction may be voidable when one of the following conditions apply:\n\nThere are two categories of insolvent transactions: unfair preferences, and uncommercial transactions.\n\nA transaction is an unfair preference if the company and the creditor are parties to the transaction and the transaction results in the creditor receiving from the company, in relation to an unsecured debt owed to the creditor, a greater amount than it would have received in relation to the debt in a winding up of the company. \nThe liquidator will be required to prove the various elements in order to retrieve the monies paid out by the company. These include that:\n\nIf a transaction is held to constitute an unfair preference, the recipient will be required to repay the benefit received from the company to the liquidator for general distribution to all creditors.\n\nAn uncommercial transaction is an insolvent transaction (that is the company was insolvent at the time of the transaction or the transaction caused the company to become insolvent) that a reasonable person in the place of the company would not have entered into, taking into account:\n\nIt is not necessary for the liquidator to demonstrate that the transaction was between the company and a creditor. The transaction can be between the company and any party. An uncommercial transaction can be voided if it was entered into during the 2 years prior to the relation-back day, or 4 years prior to the relation-back day if a related entity is a party to the transaction.\n\nWhere it is not possible to categorise transactions as unfair preferences or uncommercial transactions, they may still be voidable even if entered into outside of the time periods usually applied to such transactions. This will be the case where transactions were entered into by the company for the purpose of defeating, delaying or interfering with the rights of creditors during the 10 years prior to the relation back day.\n\nA liquidator may seek to avoid an unfair loan where the loan or loans were subject to interest or charges that are extortionate. In determining whether a loan is unfair, the Court will look at such things as the risk assumed by the company in lending, the value of any security in respect of the loan and the term of the loan. The unfair loan provisions do not require that the transaction be an insolvent transaction.\n\nA liquidator may seek to reclaim unreasonable payments made by companies to directors prior to liquidation, for example, by way of an excessive bonus. This provision extends to payments made to \"close associates\" of any director, conveyances, transfers, other dispositions of property, the issue of securities, and the incurring of an obligation to enter into these obligations.\n\nA transaction will be deemed an unreasonable director-related transaction if a reasonable person in the company's circumstances would not have entered into the transaction.\n\nThe Court may not make an order against a party where it would materially prejudice a right or interest of a person who is able to bring themselves within the protective provision. Where the person defending the liquidator's claim was not a party to the voidable transaction, the protective provision requires that they must prove that they did not receive a benefit as a result of the transaction, or if a benefit was received, that it was received in good faith and at the time there was no reasonable grounds for suspecting company insolvent. But if the person defending the liquidator's claim was a party to the voidable transaction then they must prove:\n\nThe liquidator also has a duty to investigate the company's officers and to determine whether there may be any liability for anything done by them prior to the company going into liquidation. Where the directors or officers have been guilty of either insolvent trading or misfeasance, this may provide the basis for financial claims against them, which the liquidator can use to swell the assets available for distribution to the creditors.\n\nThe Corporations Act codifies several duties into sections 180 to 183 of the statute.\n\nA director of an insolvent company may be personally liable for insolvent trading if: \n\nIf a director is found to be in breach, then they may also be subject to a civil penalty application by ASIC. ASIC may also seek compensation orders on behalf of the creditors in addition to the liquidator.\n\nThe breach of common law directors' duties may enable a liquidator to recover property from a director, or may give the liquidator a right to an account of profits. If a director removes or misuses company property, this would ordinarily be a breach of their duty of good faith, and may render the transaction voidable. Accordingly, the liquidator may attempt to recover the property from the director, who is deemed to hold it on constructive trust for the company. A director who breaches the duty to use reasonable care and diligence may also be liable for damages if the company suffered loss as a result of the breach.\n\nA person who contravenes duties set out in sections 180-183 of the Corporations Act may also be made subject to a civil penalty order of up to AU$200,000 upon the application of ASIC. The success rate of ASIC when seeking civil penalties is extremely high. The director may be ordered to pay compensation to the company in addition if the Court is satisfied that the corporation has suffered some loss as a result of the director's breach.\n\nOfficers of a company who breach sections 180-183 of the Corporations Act may also be criminally liable if: \n\n"}
{"id": "873159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873159", "title": "Bridgewater Four", "text": "Bridgewater Four\n\nThe Bridgewater Four is the collective name given to the four men who were tried and found guilty of killing 13-year-old paperboy Carl Bridgewater, who was shot in the head at close range near Stourbridge, England, in 1978. \n\nIn February 1997, after almost two decades of imprisonment, their convictions were overturned on technical grounds and the three surviving defendants were released; the fourth defendant had died in prison two years into his sentence. Bridgewater's murder remains officially unsolved.\n\nThe investigations were carried out by the West Midlands Serious Crime Squad.\n\nCarl Bridgewater (2 January 1965 – 19 September 1978) was shot dead on 19 September 1978 at Yew Tree Farm near Stourbridge, West Midlands, while delivering a newspaper to the house. The occupants of the house – elderly cousins Mary Poole and Fred Jones – were not home at the time. Police conjecture that Bridgewater may have disturbed an intruder or burglar, and was subsequently forced into the living room of the house where he was shot once in the head at close range with a shotgun.\n\nThe Bridgewater Four were Patrick Molloy, James Robinson and cousins Michael Hickey and Vincent Hickey.\n\nThey came to the attention of police working on the murder investigation following further serious crimes later in 1978. On 24 November, Robinson, Hickey and an unidentified third man carried out an armed robbery at a Tesco supermarket on the Castle Vale estate in Birmingham. Hickey and Robinson raided the safe while the third man held several terrified shoppers at bay with a gun. When the manager tried to intervene a shot was fired over his head.\n\nSix days later, Robinson and the Hickey brothers robbed an elderly couple at Chapel Farm, Romsley, near Halesowen. Vincent Hickey stayed in the car while Robinson and Michael Hickey charged into the house wearing balaclavas, brandishing a shotgun and shouting for money. The victims of this robbery displayed great courage but the robbers got away with £200. Robinson took the lead, hitting one of the victims with the gun but not firing it.\n\nMolloy was the first to be arrested. During questioning which also covered Carl's murder, Molloy told police that he had been in an upstairs bedroom at Yew Tree Farm while robbing the house when he heard a gunshot downstairs. Shortly afterwards, the other three men were arrested.\n\nAll denied committing murder, but three of them were convicted of murder at Stafford Crown Court on 9 November 1979. The fourth, Molloy, was found guilty of manslaughter. They were sentenced on 12 November.\n\nJames Robinson (aged 45) and Vincent Hickey (aged 25) were both sentenced to life imprisonment with a recommended minimum term of 25 years, which would have kept them behind bars until at least 2004 and the ages of 70 and 50 respectively. Michael Hickey (aged 18) was sentenced to be detained indefinitely at Her Majesty's pleasure, though it was anticipated he would serve a shorter sentence than the two others convicted of murder due to his age. Patrick Molloy (aged 51) received a 12-year prison sentence on the manslaughter charge, but he died of a heart attack in prison two years later.\n\nAn appeal in March 1989 was rejected, but on 21 February 1997, the latest in a number of appeals finally saw the men's convictions overturned, after the Court of Appeal ruled that the trial had been unfair, due to certain areas of evidence fabricated by police in order to persuade the now-deceased Molloy to make a confession. However, the Appeal Judges noted that in the light of Vincent Hickey's confessions to being present at the farm where Bridgewater was shot dead \"we consider that there remains evidence on which a reasonable jury properly directed could convict.\" \n\nDespite this, in the light of the judgment, the Crown Prosecution Service had decided not to apply for a retrial involving Vincent Hickey in the public interest nor proceed with an outstanding armed robbery charge against him. Hickey said, \"My conviction has been quashed, so I am absolved and as far as I'm concerned that's the end of it.\"\n\nThe campaign to free and absolve the four men was led by Michael Hickey's mother, Ann Whelan, and campaigning journalist Paul Foot. Preparations were made for a case against four police officers in the Staffordshire force on charges of fabricating evidence, but the case was dropped in December 1998.\n\nIn a ruling condemned as \"sick\" by prison campaigners, the Court of Appeal agreed with a Home Office-appointed assessor that the cousins Michael and Vincent Hickey should lose a quarter of loss-of-earnings compensation for their free food and accommodation inside. This has set a precedent which is still being used by the Home Office.\n\nRobinson died on 30 August 2007 of lung cancer at the age of 73.\n\nOver the years, convicted murderer Bert Spencer (born 1940) has been mentioned in the media as a possible suspect for the murder. Spencer, a uniformed ambulance driver who worked at Corbett Hospital in Stourbridge lived in Wordsley and was a very close neighbour of Carl (living only five doors away). He was investigated by police in the immediate aftermath of the murder, not least because he drove a blue Vauxhall Viva - the same type of car which had been seen at the farm on the afternoon of the murder. Witnesses also said that the driver of the car was a uniformed man. Spencer had a shotgun licence and was regularly allowed to shoot at Yew Tree Farm. However, he was eliminated from police inquiries within a few months after the arrest of the four other suspects. Shortly afterwards, Spencer shot dead 70-year-old Hubert Wilkes at neighbouring Holloway Farm. Like Carl, Hubert Wilkes had been shot while sitting on a sofa. Spencer was jailed for life in 1980 and served 15 years before being paroled in 1995.\n\nSpencer is featured in a book, \"Scapegoat for Murder: The Truth About the Killing of Carl Bridgewater\" (D&B Publishing), written by true crime author, Simon W. Golding. The author invited criminologist Professor David Wilson to interview Spencer, and in June 2016, Channel 4 screened a television documentary, \"Interview with a Murderer\". In the course of the \"interview of the year\", Spencer's daughter revealed that she felt that her father was indeed at Yew Tree Farm on the day of Carl's killing \"and possibly saw something\". An ambulance station secretary (who was also a friend) who had provided the \"cast iron\" alibi that he had been \"at work all day\", admitted that she could not be sure that Spencer had not left at some point. Prof. Wilson, in his final meeting with Spencer, told him that he saw through Spencer's \"kindly old grandfather schtick\", adding that a P-scan test indicated Spencer was a manipulative and callous psychopath. The documentary concluded with Prof. Wilson interviewing Spencer's former wife, who had not spoken publicly before. She said that the day after Carl's murder, Spencer told her he was disposing of his shotgun. She added that, Spencer having chosen to revive the issue to protest his innocence, it seemed likely that the police would reopen the case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14162706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14162706", "title": "California A.B. 1471", "text": "California A.B. 1471\n\nAB 1471 or AB 1471 Crime Gun Identification Act of 2007 is legislation passed by the California State Senate on September 6, 2007, and then by the California State Assembly on September 10, 2007, with votes of 21–17 and 43–29 respectively.\n\nIt was then signed into law by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger on October 13, 2007, becoming the first legislation of its kind to enact microstamping of firearms. Its implementation was then placed on hold. The hold was lifted in 2013.\n\nCalifornia's \"unsafe firearm\" laws, which include AB 1471, do not apply to any firearms used or purchased by any law enforcement agency.\n\nAB 1471 changes California definitions of \"unsafe handgun\" and also requires that:\n\n\"7) Commencing January 1, 2010, for all semiautomatic pistols that\nare not already listed on the roster pursuant to Section 12131, it\nis not designed and equipped with a microscopic array of characters\nthat identify the make, model, and serial number of the pistol,\netched or otherwise imprinted in two or more places on the interior\nsurface or internal working parts of the pistol, and that are\ntransferred by imprinting on each cartridge case when the firearm is\nfired, provided that the Department of Justice certifies that the\ntechnology used to create the imprint is available to more than one\nmanufacturer unencumbered by any patent restrictions. The Attorney\nGeneral may also approve a method of equal or greater reliability and\neffectiveness in identifying the specific serial number of a firearm\nfrom spent cartridge casings discharged by that firearm than that\nwhich is set forth in this paragraph, to be thereafter required as\notherwise set forth by this paragraph where the Attorney General\ncertifies that this new method is also unencumbered by any patent\nrestrictions.\"\n\nImplementation of AB 1471 is currently on hold pending investigations into the feasibility of microstamping and patent encumberment.\n\nThe Calguns Foundation, a gun rights group, paid to extend the lapsing patent on the technology to further delay the law from taking effect. Gene Hoffman, chairman of the group said, \"It was a lot cheaper to keep the patent in force than to litigate over the issues.\" Hoffman added that he believed the law amounted to a gun ban in California. Todd Lizotte, the engineer who developed the technology, said he wanted the patents to lapse and the technology to be in the public domain. \n\nOn May 17, 2013, California Attorney General Kamala Harris announced that micro-stamping had cleared all technological and patenting hurdles and would be required on newly sold semiautomatics, effective immediately. However, handguns already approved for sale but lacking this technology may still be sold as long as they remain on the Roster of Not Unsafe Handguns.\n\n"}
{"id": "16553978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16553978", "title": "Citizen legislature", "text": "Citizen legislature\n\nA citizen legislature is a legislative chamber made up primarily of citizens who have a full-time occupation besides being a legislator. Such citizen legislatures can be found on the state level, as in some U.S. states, or on the national level as in Switzerland.\n\nLegislatures in the U.S. considered to be citizen legislatures include Idaho, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Utah, and Wyoming. Many other states in the US, by contrast, have a professional legislature. James Madison wrote in Federalist No. 62 that \"It is not possible that an assembly of men called for the most part from pursuits of a private nature, continued in appointment for a short time, and led by no permanent motive to devote intervals of public occupation to a study of the laws, the affairs, and the comprehensive interests of their country, should, if left wholly to themselves, escape a variety of important errors in the exercise of their legislative trust.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3173093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3173093", "title": "Claims adjuster", "text": "Claims adjuster\n\nClaims adjuster (claim adjuster), or claims handler (claim handler), investigates insurance claims by interviewing the claimant and witnesses, consulting police and hospital records, and inspecting property damage to determine the extent of the company's liability. In the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, South Africa, the Caribbean and New Zealand the term loss adjuster is used. Other claims adjusters who represent policyholders may aid in the preparation of an insurance claim.\n\nIn the United States, a claims adjuster's duties typically extend to include the following elements:\n\nA Claims adjuster or Public Adjuster does not, and should not, engage in the practice of law. While adjusting the claim does mean applying the loss circumstances to the insured's policy, it does not account for if and when there becomes \"an issue of coverage\", which is a matter and practice of Law, and should only be engaged by a properly licensed attorney. \n\nIn casualty insurance the main type of coverages include but may not be limited to the following:\n\n\n\nIn the two first instances, and the fourth, the adjuster operates on behalf of the insurer.\n\nAdjusters may handle \"property claims\" involving damage to buildings and structures, or \"liability claims\" involving personal injuries or third-person property damage from liability situations, such as motor vehicle accidents, slip and falls, dog bites, or alleged negligent behavior. Some adjusters handle both types of claims and are known as \"Multi-Line\" adjusters. Also \"All Lines Adjusters\" may handle \"any\" type of claim already identified and also include professional liability, Hospital Professional Liability, Excess Liability, Physicians and Surgeons Liability, Aircraft Liability/Hull, Inland Marine, Ocean Marine, Boiler and Machinery, as well as various types of Bond Losses.\n\nFor a percentage of the settlement amount, Public adjusters work exclusively for the policyholder. This means there should be no inherent conflict of interest when it comes to advocating on the policyholder's behalf to the insurance company.\n\nAn independent adjuster could be working for multiple insurance companies or self-insured entities. If licensed by state authority they represent pinnacle of property loss knowledge in their field; whether it be residential, vehicular, marine, etc.\n\nAn adjuster will frequently verify that coverage applies through an insurance policy, investigate liability for the damages caused, and make compensation to the injured person based on their emotional or physical property damages.\n\nSpecific duties include:\n\nSome states now require adjusters disclose to claimants whose interest specifically independent, staff and public adjuster represent, before they proceed with the policyholder.\n\nAlways check your local chapter of Licensed Public insurance adjusters, or state agency, in order qualify an adjuster is properly licensed and in good standing. Some of the state chapters are AAPIA and NAPIA. In Florida, the chapter is FAPIA.\n\nIEA conducts certified online classes for people. The Insurance Institute of America also provides training leading to professional designations. Some states accept the Associate of Claims designation, and will waive the licensing examination, and grant a license by the state insurance commission. Some insurance carriers, and independent adjusting companies provide in house training certified by the state insurance commission. They must be pre-approved by the licensing division. An adjuster license is issued to those that pass the requirements.\n\nMany insurance companies prefer their claims adjusters to have a 4-year college degree preferably in business related fields. In the past, high school graduates have become claims adjusters by promotion from within the claims department. Since there are no college majors for claims adjusters, many states require a state certification in order to practice as an adjuster. States also require that a certain number of continuing education credits for claims adjusters are earned each year in order to maintain their license. This continuing education is achieved by attending seminars and online training from different claim adjuster educational resources. There are also professional designations that have become prevalent among claims adjusters; for example, The American Institute for Chartered Property Casualty Underwriters awards the Chartered Property and Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) designation to experienced underwriters.\n\nFlorida is one of the few states in the United States that has created specific designations for the licensing of insurance claims adjusters. The Accredited Claims Adjuster Designation, created by statute in coordination with Polk State College in 2002, allows an individual to obtain the Florida All Lines Independent or Company license, without taking the state licensing exam.\n\nIn some instances, such as with collapse insurance, courts have been involved in order to predicate a reasonable understanding of the guidelines of the policy in question. The meaning of terms such as \"collapse\" have undergone rigorous constitutional assessment. This leads to some ambiguity between what the law says and what is enforceable by modern mandates. The idea of \"Structural Integrity\" may not always be a universally understood term, but several articles have been published on the topic which suggests the field is evolving toward a continuity in terminology. For those interested in the claims adjustment field, in-depth study of legal principle is a necessity.\n\nMost states require licensed adjusters to continue their education through a \"continuing education\" requirement. Florida requires 24 hours of CE every two years.\n\nClaims adjusters work long hours including work nights and weekends. Their work is appointment based and must revolve around the needs of clients.\n\nStaff adjusters are those who work for a specific insurance company and may either have a teams often enjoy this type of work as it allows them to work and travel together to different parts of the country. Adjusters should become familiar with the reimbursement rules for each company with whom they work and track all expenses used in the line of work.\n\nComputer skills are essential, including keyboard skills. Most insurance companies store all documentation digitally. A digital camera is highly useful in documenting claims visually. Estimates, including auto and property losses, are prepared on computers connected to a corporate network. Laptop computers, pad, and other technologies make claims adjusting easier and consume less time. However, claims adjusting also requires a level of physical strength and stamina.\n\nProperty adjusters, for example, are often required to operate a 50-pound ladder and must stand, walk, kneel, crawl, and perform other physical demands as they investigate damaged property.\n"}
{"id": "2731205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2731205", "title": "Commonwealth citizen", "text": "Commonwealth citizen\n\nIn general, a Commonwealth citizen is a citizen of a member state of the Commonwealth of Nations. This designation is given legal effect in the nationality laws of some Commonwealth countries, and Commonwealth citizens may enjoy some privileges in the United Kingdom and, less commonly, other member states. Each Commonwealth country determines what special rights, if any, are accorded to citizens of other Commonwealth countries. The status is most significant in British law and has little effect in many other Commonwealth countries, such as Australia.\n\nIn British nationality law, a Commonwealth citizen is a person who is either a British citizen, Indian citizen, British Overseas citizen, British subject, British National (Overseas) or a national of a country listed in Schedule 3 of the British Nationality Act 1981 (see below). Under the law, British protected persons are not Commonwealth citizens. The list of countries in Schedule 3 at any time may not accurately reflect the countries actually within the Commonwealth at that time. For example, when Fiji left the Commonwealth in 1987 and 1990, its name was not removed from Schedule 3. This may have happened because the British Government at the time wished to avoid the consequences of Fijian citizens in the United Kingdom suddenly losing the benefits of Commonwealth citizenship.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Commonwealth citizens (together with Irish citizens and British protected persons) are in law considered not to be \"foreign\" or \"aliens\", although British protected persons do not have all the civic rights that are enjoyed by Commonwealth and Irish citizens. This reasoning has not carried over to some other Commonwealth countries – for example, in the High Court of Australia case of \"Sue v Hill\", other Commonwealth countries were held to be foreign powers, while in \"Nolan v Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs\", the nationals of other Commonwealth realms were held to be 'aliens'. In the United Kingdom, Commonwealth and Irish citizens enjoy the same civic rights as British citizens, namely:\n\nThe disabilities of Commonwealth citizens who are not British citizens are few but, in the case of immigration control, very important. Commonwealth citizens (including British nationals who are not British citizens) who do not have the right of abode are subject to immigration control, including control on the right to work and carry out business. In addition, Commonwealth citizens who are not British citizens may not be engaged in certain sensitive occupations, e.g., in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, in the intelligence services, and some positions within the armed forces.\n\nNevertheless, under the United Kingdom's immigration arrangements Commonwealth citizens enjoy certain advantages:\n\nCountries whose citizens are Commonwealth citizens under Schedule 3 of the British Nationality Act 1981, although the list may not reflect the actual current membership in the Commonwealth, are as follows:\n\n<br>\nFor electoral purposes, the whole of Cyprus is considered to be a Commonwealth country; hence, anyone who holds a Cypriot passport or a Northern Cypriot passport is considered to be a Commonwealth citizen (but not a person who is solely a Turkish citizen without any form of Cypriot nationality).\n\nThe Gambia left the Commonwealth on 3 October 2013 and was removed from the schedule on 12 November 2015 by virtue of The British Nationality (The Gambia) Order 2015. The new Gambian government elected in 2017 has stated that it will apply to re-join. The Gambia rejoined the Commonwealth on 8 February 2018, after the Commonwealth Secretariat confirmed their application had been approved unanimously by Commonwealth Member States. It was then added back to the schedule on 22 June 2018.\n\nMaldives left the Commonwealth on 13 October 2016 and was removed from the schedule on 12 May 2017 by virtue of The British Nationality (Maldives) Order 2017.\n\nAlthough the rights and privileges (if any) for non-national Commonwealth citizens differ from country to country, a number of Commonwealth countries grant them more privileges than 'aliens' (i.e. non-Commonwealth foreign nationals), but not the full privileges enjoyed by the country's own nationals.\n\nThe following Commonwealth countries allow citizens from other Commonwealth countries to vote:\n\nAll British Crown Dependencies allow citizens from Commonwealth countries to vote:\n\nThe following Overseas Territories of the United Kingdom allow citizens from Commonwealth countries to vote:\n\n\nSome Commonwealth countries offer visa-free entry for short visits made by Commonwealth citizens. Some Commonwealth countries continue to allow Commonwealth citizens from other countries to become nationals/local citizens by \"registration\" rather than \"naturalisation\", upon preferential terms, e.g. with a shorter required period of residency, although this practice has been discontinued in some countries such as New Zealand and Malta.\n\nIn March 2013, it was announced by Nigeria's Foreign Affairs Minister, Ambassador Olugbenga Ashiru, that a visa free regime is being contemplated by Commonwealth countries for its members to strengthen trade and investment among member nations. As a prelude to accomplishing this, the council of ministers is to present a proposal for the exemption of holders of official and diplomatic passports from visa requirements at the next Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting, CHOGOM, scheduled to hold in Colombo, Sri Lanka.\n\nThe announcement came in the wake of a meeting between Ashiru and the Secretary General of the Commonwealth, Kamalesh Sharma, in Abuja. At the meeting Ashiru and Sharma discussed proposals to make the Commonwealth more relevant to its citizens across the globe including ways the Commonwealth could ease free movement across member countries, strengthen institutions, enhance education, create job opportunities, facilitate development and enhance the living standard of the citizens across the countries of the Commonwealth.\n\nAshiru said, \"We also discussed the issue of free movement to promote people to people contact within the Commonwealth. In the past, it used to be that holders of Commonwealth passports could travel within the Commonwealth countries easily without having to go and queue for visas. We are now thinking for ways to ensure that we bring back this old tradition of the Commonwealth. Already, the council of ministers have recommended for approval at the next CHOGOM meeting in Colombo the exemption of holders of official and diplomatic passports within the Commonwealth from the requirement of a visa if they are travelling within the Commonwealth.\"\n\nWhen approved, he said, other categories of professionals and businessmen would be recommended for similar privileges.\n\n\nIn foreign (i.e. non-Commonwealth) countries, the British embassy or consulate is traditionally responsible for Commonwealth citizens whose governments are not represented in the country concerned. A few Commonwealth governments have made alternative arrangements to share the burden, such as the Canada-Australia Consular Services Sharing Agreement, hence for Canadian and Australian citizens, the British embassy or consulate only provides assistance if neither country is represented. In return, there are a few Australian consulates that are responsible for British nationals because there is no British consulate there. Some Commonwealth governments, such as Singapore and Tanzania, have opted not to receive consular assistance from the United Kingdom.\n\nIn other Commonwealth countries, British High Commissions accept no responsibility for unrepresented Commonwealth citizens, who should look to the host Commonwealth government for quasi-consular assistance. Canadian and Australian citizens are still able to seek consular assistance from each other's high commissions. Additionally, Canadian citizens can seek consular assistance at any British embassy or high commission where Canada is not represented.\n\nCommonwealth citizens outside the UK are eligible to apply for a British emergency travel document if they need to travel urgently and their passport has been lost/stolen/expired (as long as the FCO has cleared this with the government of the Commonwealth citizen's home country).\n\nWhen a British embassy or consulate in a foreign country is required to provide a replacement passport to a Commonwealth citizen whose government is unrepresented in that country, it will issue a British passport with the nationality of the holder marked as \"Commonwealth citizen\".\n\nSome Commonwealth governments issue travel documents to Commonwealth citizens resident in their countries who are unable to obtain national passports. For example, the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade issues Documents of Identity (DOI) for compassionate reasons to Commonwealth citizens resident in Australia who are unable to obtain a valid travel document for the country or countries of which he/she has nationality when he/she needs to travel urgently.\n\n"}
{"id": "27259494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27259494", "title": "Composers, Authors and Publishers Association of Canada", "text": "Composers, Authors and Publishers Association of Canada\n\nThe Composers, Authors and Publishers Association of Canada () was a Canadian copyright collective for the right to communicate with the public and publicly perform musical works. CAPAC administered these rights on behalf of its members (composers, lyricists, songwriters, and their publishers) and those of affiliated international organizations by licensing the use of their music in Canada. Royalties were paid to the music creators after administration costs were deducted to pay for the operation of CAPAC.\n\nCAPAC was established as a subsidiary of Great Britain's Performing Rights Society (PRS) under the name the Canadian Performing Rights Society (CPRS) in 1925. Its initial purpose was to administer the royalties of composers, lyricists and music publishers whose creations were performed in Canada, be they native Canadians or foreigners. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers bought partial ownership of the CPRS in 1930. In 1945 CPRS became CAPAC through the Supplementary Letters Patent. \n\nCAPAC developed a schedule under which broadcasters and cinema owners paid royalties for each playing of CAPAC music, while live music venues were required to purchase music performance licenses. Royalties were also collected when music was used in advertisements.\n\nIn 1950 CPAC changed its method of assessment from logging individual performances to collecting a percentage of revenues. Over the next few years the organization came into conflict with the Canadian Association of Broadcasters as well as a number of private supper clubs, who objected to paying the royalties and license fees assessed by CAPAC. While the issue was in the courts, both the stations and the clubs were enjoined from playing any CAPAC music unless they paid a percentage of their revenue to CAPAC. In 1955 the Supreme Court ruled that radio stations could decide either to pay 1% of their revenue to CAPAC or refrain from using CAPAC music.\n\nBy 1976 CAPAC had about 6,000 members and revenue of about $10 million.\n\nIn 1989 the organization merged with the Performing Rights Organization of Canada Limited to form the Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "3009050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3009050", "title": "Consumer expectations test", "text": "Consumer expectations test\n\nIn legal disputes regarding product liability, a consumer expectations test is used to determine whether the product is negligently manufactured or whether a warning on the product is defective. Under this test, the product is considered defective if a reasonable consumer would find it defective. As an example, a reasonable consumer might find exposed blades on a lawnmower, without plastic guards that could be installed for pennies, to be defective because the risk of not having the plastic guards is higher than the costs of installing those guards. \n\nThe test is mostly applied to non-complex products about which consumers might have expectations. For example, the consumer might not have specific safety expectations about the design of landing gear on an airplane except for the fact that they do not expect to crash while taking the plane.\n\nA closely related test is risk-utility test. Traditionally, the risk-utility test was used for design defects, while the consumer expectation test was applied to manufacturing defects. However, some jurisdictions apply the consumer expectation test to design defects as well. \"See\" Calles v. Scripto-Tokai Corp., 2007 WL 495315 (Ill. Feb. 16, 2007). \n\nOfficial definition of consumer expectation test: An unreasonably dangerous product is one that is dangerous to an extent beyond that which would be contemplated by the ordinary consumer who purchases it, with the ordinary knowledge common to the community of its characteristics. \n\nThis test is commonly applied in product liability cases in the United States. \n\nIn the European Union, the European Council Directive on General Product Safety 2001/95/EC states (at Article 3(f)) that the conformance of a product to a general safety requirement shall be assessed taking into account \"reasonable customer expectations regarding safety\" (amongst other considerations).\n"}
{"id": "50775750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50775750", "title": "Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2005", "text": "Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2005\n\nCouncil Regulation (EC) No 1/2005 is European Council legislation introduced in 2004 which relates to protecting the welfare of animals during transportation. The full title is Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2005 of 22 December 2004 on the protection of animals during transport and related operations and amending Directives 64/432/EEC and 93/119/EC and Regulation (EC) No 1255/97. It applies to the transport of live vertebrate animals carried out within the European Community.\n\nAmong the general conditions of transportation, it is stipulated that:\n\n\nThe regulation gives stricter rules for journeys longer than 8 hours, upgrading of vehicle standards and more efficient monitoring than previously.\n"}
{"id": "12122689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12122689", "title": "Crown Proceedings Act 1947", "text": "Crown Proceedings Act 1947\n\nThe Crown Proceedings Act 1947 (c. 44) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that allowed, for the first time, civil actions against the Crown to be brought in the same way as against any other party. The Act also reasserted the common law doctrine of Crown privilege but by making it, for the first time, justiciable paved the way for the development of the modern law of public interest immunity.\n\nThe Act received the royal assent on 31 July 1947 but did not fully come into force until 1 January 1948.\n\nThere remain significant differences between Crown proceedings and claims between private parties, especially as to enforcement of judgments.\n\nBefore the Act, the Crown could not be sued in contract. However, as it was seen to be desirable that Crown contractors could obtain redress, they would otherwise be inhibited from taking on such work, so a petition of right came to be used in such situations, especially after the Petitions of Right Act 1860 simplified the process.\n\nBefore the petition could be heard by the courts, it had to be endorsed with the words \"fiat justitia\" on the advice of the Home Secretary and Attorney-General.\n\nSimilarly, the Crown could not be sued in tort. The usual remedy was for the complainant to sue the public servant responsible for the injury. A famous example was the case of \"Entick v Carrington\". The Crown usually indemnified the servant against any damages.\n\nHenry Brougham called for equality between Crown and subjects in a House of Commons motion in 1828 but it was to be a further century before the proposal was realised. Government departments came up with a range of pragmatic devices to mitigate some of the effects of Crown immunity, and although these left many problems unaddressed, many lawyers and politicians believed that the law generally struck a good balance.\n\nIn 1921 a Crown Proceedings Committee was established, following a campaign by the legal profession which was also supported by the Law Officers of the Crown. The Committee was chaired by Lord Hewart. The Committee was deeply divided on the question of whether the Crown should be made liable in tort, but was instructed by the Lord Chancellor to draft a bill on the basis that it was desirable, leaving the political question to be decided by the Government once the bill had been prepared. The Committee produced a draft Bill in 1927. However, little was done to progress it through Parliament due to opposition within the Government (primarily from Admiralty and Viscount Hailsham.)\n\nIn the 1940s, there was adverse criticism of the state of affairs from the House of Lords and the Court of Appeal. There was also political pressure on the Labour government from the trade unions, who feared that Crown immunity would severely affect the rights of workers in nationalised industries. The Lord Chancellor, Lord Jowitt, also believed that it was politically important to demonstrate that the Labour government was committed to maintaining the rights of citizens against the State. The result was that the Act was made a priority, and passed through Parliament in 1947 with little controversy and to general acclaim.\n\nSection 1 of the Act allows claims, for which a petition of right would previously have been demanded, to be brought in the courts directly as against any other defendant. However, a petition and \"fiat\" still appear to be necessary for personal claims against the monarch.\n\nSection 2 renders the Crown liable as though it were a natural person for:\n\nSection 2(2) provides that the Crown is liable for breach of statutory duty so long as the statute binds both the Crown and private persons.\n\nSection 3 provides for the protection of patents, registered trade marks, design rights and copyrights from breach by Crown servants.\n\nSection 2(5) exempts the Crown from liability for any person exercising \"responsibilities of a judicial nature\". This means, for example, that a claim under the Human Rights Act 1998 may not be brought against the Crown with respect to judicial decisions, unless it is brought within a right of appeal according to Section 9 of that Act.\n\nSection 10 exempted the Crown from actions for death or personal injury caused by members of the British Armed Forces to other members of the British Armed Forces. This section was suspended by the Crown Proceedings (Armed Forces) Act 1987, sections 1 and 2 with a power for the Secretary of State for Defence to revive it when \"necessary and expedient\". There was some retrospective litigation after the 1987 Act in which a declaration was made under the Human Rights Act 1998, section 4 that such immunity was compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights, article 6(1).\n\nSection 28 gave the courts, for the first time, the power to order disclosure of documents by the Crown and require the Crown to answer requests for further information. This new power is subject to important qualifications in s.28(2) including the proviso that the Crown can resist disclosure where this could be “injurious to the public interest”. This reasserted the traditional doctrine of Crown privilege but also made the issue justiciable, ultimately giving rise to the doctrine of public-interest immunity.\n\nApart from petitions of right, the Act abolished several ancient writs and procedures:\n\nSections 5 to 8 originally covered Admiralty claims but these sections were repealed and replaced by provisions under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.\n\nSection 9 originally excluded claims arising from the operations of the Post Office, including telegraphic and telephone services, other than the loss or damage of a registered letter. These provisions were repealed and replaced by the Post Office Act 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "21662089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21662089", "title": "Deaths of Phillip Esposito and Louis Allen", "text": "Deaths of Phillip Esposito and Louis Allen\n\nThe fragging deaths of Phillip Esposito and Louis Allen occurred on June 7, 2005, at Forward Operating Base Danger in Tikrit, Iraq. Captain Phillip Esposito and First Lieutenant Louis Allen, from a New York Army National Guard unit of the United States 42nd Infantry Division, were mortally wounded in Esposito's office by a Claymore mine and died.\n\nMilitary investigators determined that the mine was deliberately placed in the window and detonated to kill Esposito and Allen. Staff Sergeant Alberto B. Martinez, who was in the officers' unit, was charged with two counts of premeditated murder. In 2006, two years before the trial, Martinez volunteered in a plea bargain to plead guilty to murder in exchange for a life sentence without parole; Lt. Gen. John Vines, commander of the Army’s 18th Airborne Corps and the convening authority, rejected the deal. In the court martial, Martinez was acquitted on December 4, 2008 at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.\n\nThe case was one of only two publicly known alleged fragging incidents among American forces during the Iraq War and the only one to take place in Iraq, in contrast to numerous incidents among United States forces during the Vietnam War of the 1960s and early 70s. In April 2005, Sergeant Hasan Karim Akbar was convicted on charges of premeditated murder and sentenced to death for the first incident, which took place in March 2003 in Kuwait. \n\nOn the evening of June 7, 2005, Captain Phillip Esposito, 30, and First Lieutenant Louis Allen, 34, were playing the board game \"Risk\" in Esposito's office in the Water Palace building on the United States Forward Operating Base (FOB) Danger in Tikrit, Iraq. The officers were from the Headquarters and Headquarters Company of the 42nd Infantry Division, a New York Army National Guard unit from Troy, New York; it was deployed to Iraq in support of American operations in the Iraq War. Esposito was the company commander and had been stationed in Iraq about six months. Allen was the company's new operations officer; he had arrived in the unit just four days before.\n\nAt 10 p.m., a M18A1 Claymore mine placed next to the window of Esposito's office exploded, blasting 700 steel ball bearings into the office space and fatally wounding the two officers. Seconds later, several grenades exploded in the vicinity of Esposito's office. The two injured officers were rushed to a hospital at Forward Operating Base Speicher. Both died early June 8, 2005, from serious internal injuries suffered in the first explosion.\n\n\nMilitary investigators initially thought that the two officers were killed by an insurgent mortar or rocket attack. When they determined that the blast was deliberately caused by a hand-placed explosive device, they began looking for suspects. Learning that Staff Sergeant Alberto B. Martinez, 37, had made numerous threats against Esposito, and based on their investigation, they arrested and charged him with two counts of premeditated murder. This happened the same week in June that Esposito and Allen were buried in their home towns.\n\nFrom Schaghticoke, New York near Troy, Martinez is married with two children. He had joined the National Guard in 1990 and been assigned to Iraq in 2004. He was serving as the supply sergeant of the unit headed by Esposito and Allen.\n\nEsposito and Martinez had come into conflict before arriving in Tikrit in April 2004, as Esposito tried to bring the sergeant in line. Martinez was later described in court \"as a poorly disciplined and foul-mouthed guardsman who needed a special waiver to qualify for duty.\" Witnesses testified that Martinez \"could not account for hundreds of thousands of dollars in missing equipment.\" Esposito eventually restricted Martinez from going into the supply area without an escort. Martinez feared Esposito would get him kicked out of the Guard, costing him $2,859 in monthly pay.\n\nWitnesses later testified that Martinez had openly threatened to kill Esposito. The captain had already disciplined Martinez for poor job performance; he had also initiated proceedings that might have resulted in Martinez being discharged from the military or removed from his full-time Guard position. Esposito was considered the target of the attack, as Allen had arrived in the unit in Tikrit only days before. Witnesses placed Martinez in the vicinity of the Water Palace shortly after the explosion.\n\nIn October and November 2005, the military held an Article 32 hearing, similar to a grand jury hearing, in Kuwait rather than Tikrit, in order to allow the wives of Martinez, Esposito and Allen to attend; all three did. In addition, the Army arranged for transmission of an audio link of the two-day proceedings to West Point to allow other family members in the area to follow them.\n\nNine witnesses testified. Colonel Patrick Reinert recommended a general court-martial for Martinez on murder charges based on the evidence presented.\n\nIn early 2006 Martinez learned of additional evidence against him. This included testimony from a soldier who said she had given Martinez Claymore mines and grenades shortly before the killings. On April 3, 2006, he volunteered to plead guilty to murder in exchange for a life sentence with the possibility of parole after 10 years. But, Lieutenant General John Vines, commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps and convening authority over the legal proceedings, rejected the plea agreement. Vines sent the case to court-martial under two counts of premeditated murder, Article 118 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.\n\nIn April 2007 the defense asked for more time to prepare its case and presented the judge with four motions. In addition to the charges of premeditated murder, at the time Martinez was charged with one count each of wrongful possession of a privately owned firearm, unexploded ordnance, and alcohol. The other charge against him was for wrongfully giving government property, in this case printers and copiers, to an Iraqi national. One of the defense motions was to sever the murder charges from the others. The case was scheduled to go to trial in August 2007.\n\nIn August 2008, the defense asked the judge to dismiss the murder charges, because of what they alleged was the prosecutor trying to influence a witness who could help the defense. The judge refused the request.\n\nThe court-martial was held at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, beginning in October 2008, with Colonel Stephen Henley sitting as the trial judge. During the trial, Sergeant Sandra Pelton, a 42nd Division cook, testified for the prosecution that Martinez twice mentioned fragging when he came through her dining facility a few days before the explosion. On one occasion when Pelton asked Martinez how he was doing, he made a noise simulating an explosion and said, \"Frag him, frag. I mean it.\" Approximately 20 other soldiers and officers testified that they had heard Martinez threaten or insult Esposito.\n\nMartinez's defense team countered that the Army's evidence against Martinez was circumstantial, and prosecution witnesses' testimonies were inconsistent. The defense team also presented evidence that Martinez was not the only soldier in the unit with a grudge against Esposito. After two days of deliberations, the jury acquitted Martinez on December 4, 2008. In the military, a two-thirds vote by the jury is needed for conviction. The prosecutor in the case speculated that some jurors' known opposition to the death penalty may have influenced their votes for acquittal.\n\nSoon after his acquittal, Martinez received an honorable discharge from the National Guard. Publicly, Martinez \"proclaimed his innocence and a sense of vindication.\" Military prosecutors repeated their belief in Martinez's guilt.\n\nIn 2009, a report in \"The New York Times\" revealed that Martinez had offered in 2006 to plead guilty to 2nd-degree murder in an attempted plea bargain that was ultimately rejected by the government. Martinez's guilty plea offer was signed by his two Army defense lawyers who were permitted by Army regulations to sign the plea offer only if they believed at the time that Martinez committed the crime. Subsequent debate was twofold: one question arose over whether the government's pursuit of the death penalty may lead defendants to plead to crimes they have not committed in order to avoid death as a punishment. Another question focused on the alleged inflexibility of the military's punishment scheme, as the government had apparently rejected Martinez's 2006 plea on the grounds that Martinez would have been eligible for parole within 10 years if sentenced to life, even after pleading guilty to 2nd-degree murder in the slaying of the two officers.\n\nIn 2009, Siobhan Esposito opposed the Obama administration's nomination of Major General Joseph Taluto as director of the Army National Guard. Taluto served as the general in charge of her husband's National Guard unit. Esposito argued that Taluto was negligent when leaders under his command failed to hold Martinez to account for his many threats against her husband. After Esposito complained to the Senate Armed Services Committee about Taluto, he withdrew his nomination. Esposito has also argued that military leaders should strictly enforce regulations that prohibit threats against superiors and encourage soldiers to report violations of military discipline.\n\nIn 2009, Barbara Allen initiated an effort to compel the Army to award the Purple Heart to her husband for his slaying. Allen unsuccessfully petitioned the Military Awards Board and the Secretary of the Army for a hearing on the matter. As of January 2017, the Army has denied her request, citing the lack of a \"nexus to enemy action\" that would merit an awarding of the medal. Allen also wrote a memoir about her experiences in the face of her husband's death, Martinez's court-martial, and his acquittal. \n\nOn January 22, 2017, Alberto Martinez died in Florida of unspecified causes. \n\nThe case was one of only two publicly known instances of U.S. Army enlisted soldiers charged with intentionally killing superior officers during the Iraq war, and the only one to occur in Iraq.\n\nTo date, the Army has not publicly identified or charged any other individual in Esposito and Allen's slaying.\n\n"}
{"id": "10336260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10336260", "title": "Dignitary tort", "text": "Dignitary tort\n\nA dignitary tort is type of intentional tort where the cause of action is being subjected to certain kinds of indignities. Historically, this category of torts was often covered by the old English writ of trespass \"vi et armis\".\n\nHistorically, the primary dignitary torts were battery, assault, and false imprisonment, as each claimed harm to a person's human dignity. A cause of action could be brought for battery, for example, even if no injury was done to the plaintiff, so long as the contact would be offensive to a reasonable person. Under modern jurisprudence the category of dignitary torts is more closely associated with secondary dignitary torts, most notably defamation (slander and libel), false light, intentional infliction of emotional distress, invasion of privacy, and alienation of affections. In some jurisdictions, the phrase is limited to those torts which do not require physical injury or threat of physical injury, limiting the class to only those secondary incidents.\n\nThe only non-intentional act classified as a dignitary tort is negligent infliction of emotional distress, although this is also sometimes classified as simply another form of negligence.\n"}
{"id": "3044226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3044226", "title": "Dower", "text": "Dower\n\nDower is a provision accorded by law, but traditionally by a husband or his family, to a wife for her support in the event that she should become widowed. It was settled on the bride (being gifted into trust) by agreement at the time of the wedding, or as provided by law.\n\nThe dower grew out of the Germanic practice of bride price (Old English \"weotuma\"), which was given over to a bride's family well in advance for arranging the marriage, but during the early Middle Ages, was given directly to the bride instead. However, in popular parlance, the term may be used for a life interest in property settled by a husband on his wife at any time, not just at the wedding. The verb \"to dower\" is sometimes used\".\"\n\nIn popular usage, the term \"dower\" may be confused with:\n\nBeing for the widow and being accorded by law, dower differs essentially from a conventional marriage portion such as the English dowry (cf. Roman \"dos\", Byzantine \"proíx\", French \"dot\", Dutch \"bruidsschat\", German \"Mitgift\").\n\nThe bride received a right to certain property from the bridegroom or his family. It was intended to ensure her livelihood in widowhood, and it was to be kept separate and in the wife's possession.\n\nDower is the gift given by the groom to the bride, customarily on the morning after the wedding, though all dowerings from the man to his fiancée, either during the betrothal period, or wedding, or afterwards, even as late as in the testamentary dowering, are understood as dowers if specifically intended for the maintenance of the widow.\n\nDower was a property arrangement for marriage first used in early medieval German cultures, and the Catholic Church drove its adoption into other countries, in order to improve the wife's security by this \"additional\" benefit. The practice of dower was prevalent in those parts of Europe influenced by Germanic Scandinavian culture, such as Sweden, Germany, Normandy and successor states of the Langobardian kingdom.\n\nThe husband was legally prevented from using the wife's dower — as contrasted with her dowry, which was brought to the marriage by the bride and used by both spouses. This often meant that the woman's legal representative, usually a male relative, became guardian or executor of the dower, to ensure that it was not squandered.\n\nUsually, the wife was free from kin limitations to use (and bequeath) her dower to whatever and whomever she pleased. It may have become the property of her next marriage, been given to an ecclesiastical institution, or been inherited by her children from other relationships than that from which she received it.\n\nIn English legal history, there were originally five kinds of dower: (1) \"ad ostium ecclesiae\", or at the church porch; (2) \"ex assensu patris\"; (3) \"de la plus belle\"; (4) at common law; (5) by custom.\n\n\nDower is thought to have been suggested by the bride price which Tacitus found to be usual among the Germans. This bride price he terms \"dos\", but contrasts it with the \"dos\" (dowry) of the Roman law, which was a gift on the part of the wife to the husband, while in Germany the gift was made by the husband to the wife. There was indeed in the Roman law what was termed \"donatio propter nuptias\", a gift from the family of the husband, but this was only required if the \"dos\" were brought on the part of the wife. So too in the special instance of a widow (herself poor and undowried) of a husband rich at the time of his death, an ordinance of the Christian Emperor Justinian secured her the right to a part of her husband's property, of which no disposition of his could deprive her.\n\nThe general establishment of the principle of dower in the customary law of Western Europe, according to Maine, is to be traced to the influence of the Church (no evidence of this whatsoever dower payments evolved from Germanic custom of paying a brideprice, which over centuries morphed into the bridegift, was in place long before the church became seriously involved in marriage practice), and to be included perhaps among its most arduous triumphs. Dower is an outcome of the ecclesiastical practice of exacting from the husband at marriage a promise to endow his wife, a promise retained in form even now in the marriage ritual of the Established Church in England. Dower is mentioned in an ordinance of King Philip Augustus of France (1214), and in the almost contemporaneous Magna Carta (1215); but it seems to have already become customary law in Normandy, Sicily, and Naples, as well as in England. The object of both ordinance and charter was to regulate the amount of the dower where this was not the subject of voluntary arrangement, dower by English law consisting of a wife's life estate in one-third of the lands of the husband \"of which any issue which she might have had might by possibility have been heir\".\n\nThere is judicial authority of the year 1310 for the proposition that dower was favoured by law, and at a less remote period it was said to be with life and liberty one of three things which \"the law favoreth\". In England in the late 18th century, it became common for men to hold land with a trust that prevented their wives' acquiring dower. Accordingly, the English statute, the Fines and Recoveries Act 1833 was passed to impair the inviolability of dower by empowering husbands to cut off by deed or will their wives from dower. Wives married before the Act still had (in certain cases) to acknowledge the deed before a commissioner to bar their right to dower in property which their husband sold. This was simpler than the previous procedure, which had required a fine to be levied in the Court of Common Pleas, a fictitious proceeding, by which she and her husband formally remitted their right to the property to the purchaser.\n\nIn English law, dower was one third of the lands seised in fee by the husband during the marriage. However, in the early modern period, it was common for a wife to bar her right to dower in advance under a marriage settlement, under which she agreed to take instead a jointure, that is a particular interest in her husband's property, either a particular share, or a life interest in a particular part of the land, or an annuity. This was often part of an arrangement by which she gave up her property to her husband in exchange for her jointure, which would accordingly be greater than a third. Strictly dower was only available from land that her husband owned, but a life tenant under a settlement was often given power to appoint a jointure for his wife. The wife would retain her right to dower (if not barred by a settlement) even if her husband sold the property; however this right could also be barred by a fictitious court proceeding known as levying a fine. The widow of a copyholder was usually provided for by the custom of the manor with freebench, an equivalent right to dower, but often (but not necessarily) a half, rather than a third.\n\nUnder Scots law, the part of the estate that cannot be denied to a surviving wife is referred to as jus relictae.\n\nIt was the law of dower unimpaired by statute, which according to the American commentator Chancellor Kent has been \"with some modifications everywhere adopted as part of the municipal jurisprudence of the United States\". However, dower was never received under Louisianan law and has been expressly abolished in most states and territories. Where it still remains, dower has been heavily modified by statute, is no longer automatically applied, and largely superseded by other forms of marital property arrangements (elective share, community property).\n\nDuring the pre-Reformation period, a man who became a monk and made his religious profession in England was deemed civilly dead, \"dead in law\" ; consequently his heirs inherited his land forthwith as though he had died a natural death. Assignment of dower in his hand would nevertheless be postponed until the natural death of such a man, for only by his wife's consent could a married man be legally professed in religion, and she was not allowed by her consent to exchange her husband for dower. After the Reformation and the enactment of the English statute of 11 and 12 William III, prohibiting \"papists\" from inheriting or purchasing lands, a Roman Catholic widow was not held to be debarred of dower, for dower accruing by operation of law was deemed to be not within the prohibitions of the statute. By a curious disability of old English law a Jewish widow born in England would be debarred of dower in land which her husband, he having been an Englishman of the same faith and becoming converted after marriage, should purchase, if she herself remained unconverted.\n\nOf dower (\"douaire\") as it existed in the old French law no trace is to be found in the existing law of France. But brought to Canada from the mother country in pre-Revolutionary times, customary dower accruing by operation of law is yet recognized in the law of the former French province of Quebec. The civil death which by English law seems to have applied to men only, might be by the French law incurred by women taking perpetual religious vows. Therefore, a widow entering into religion would lose her dower, although in some regions she was allowed to retain a moderate income. And now by the law of Quebec a widow joining certain religious orders of the province is deemed civilly dead and undoubtedly would suffer loss of dower.\n\nSome well-born persons have been prone to marry an ineligible spouse. Particularly in European countries where the equal birth of spouses (\"Ebenbürtigkeit\") was an important condition to marriages of dynasts of reigning houses and high nobility, the old matrimonial and contractual law provision of dowering was taken into a new use by institutionalizing the morganatic marriage. Marriage being morganatical prevents the passage of the husband's titles and privileges to the wife and any children born of the marriage.\n\n\"Morganatic\", from the Latin phrase \"matrimonium ad morganaticam\", refers to the dower (Latin: \"morganaticum\", German: \"Morgengabe\", Swedish: \"morgongåva\" ). When a marriage contract is made that the bride and the children of the marriage will not receive anything else (than the dower) from the bridegroom or from his inheritance or patrimony or from his clan, that sort of marriage was dubbed as \"marriage with only the dower and no other inheritance\", i.e. \"matrimonium ad morganaticum\".\n\nNeither the bride nor any children of the marriage has any right on the groom's titles, rights, or entailed property. The children are considered legitimate on other counts and the prohibition of bigamy applies.\n\nThe practice of \"only-doweried\" is close to pre-nuptial contracts excluding the spouse from property, though children are usually not affected by prenuptials, whereas they certainly were by morganatical marriage.\n\nMorganatic marriage contained an agreement that the wife and the children born of the marriage will not receive anything further than what was agreed in pre-nuptials, and in some cases may have been zero, or something nominal. Separate nobility titles were given to morganatic wives of dynasts of reigning houses, but it sometimes included no true property. This sort of dower was far from the original purpose of the bride receiving a settled property from the bridegroom's clan, in order to ensure her livelihood in widowhood.\n\nThe practice of morganatic marriage was most common in historical German states, where equality of birth between the spouses was considered an important principle among the reigning houses and high nobility. Morganatic marriage has not been and is not possible in jurisdictions that do not allow sufficient freedom of contracting, as it is an agreement containing that pre-emptive limitation to the inheritance and property rights of the wife and the children. Marriages have never been considered morganatic in any part of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe payment from the groom to the bride is a mandatory condition for all valid Muslim marriages: a man must pay mahr (donatio propter nuptias in Latin) to his bride. It is the duty of the husband to pay as stated in the Qu'ran (Sura Al-Nisaa’ verses 4 and 20–24), although often his family may assist, and by agreement can be in promissory form, i.e. in the event the husband pronounces talaq It is considered a gift which the bride has to agree on. The mahr can be any value as long as it is agreed upon by both parties. When the groom gives his bride the mahr, it becomes her property.\n\nIf the mahr was in promissory form then upon divorce, the mahr becomes payable if the husband initiated the divorce (talaq). If it was previously paid a woman is entitled to keep her mahr. However, if the woman initiates the divorce (in the procedure called khula), the circumstances of the breakup become relevant. If the divorce is sought for cause; meaning, in an Islamic context, her husband's abuse, illness, impotence, or infidelity, the woman is generally considered to have the right to keep the mahr; however, if the divorce is not sought for a generally accepted cause, the husband may request its return.\n\nThe amount promised or paid to the bride forms part of her personal property and is of assistance to her in times of financial need, such as a divorce or desertion by the husband. While the mahr is usually in the form of cash, it may also be a house or viable business that is put in her name and can be run and owned entirely by her if she so chooses.\n\nAccording to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Bahá'í Faith's most holy book, the dower is paid from the groom to the bride. The dower, if the husband lives in a city, is nineteen mithqáls (approx. 2.2 troy ounces) of pure gold, or, if the husband lives outside a city, the same amount in silver.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453124", "title": "European Union competition law", "text": "European Union competition law\n\nEuropean competition law is the competition law in use within the European Union. It promotes the maintenance of competition within the European Single Market by regulating anti-competitive conduct by companies to ensure that they do not create cartels and monopolies that would damage the interests of society. \n\nEuropean competition law today derives mostly from articles 101 to 109 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), as well as a series of Regulations and Directives. Four main policy areas include:\n\n\nPrimary authority for applying competition law within the European Union rests with European Commission and its Directorate General for Competition, although state aids in some sectors, such as agriculture, are handled by other Directorates General. The Directorates can mandate that improperly-given state aid be repaid, as was the case in 2012 with Malev Hungarian Airlines.\n\nLeading ECJ cases on competition law include \"Consten & Grundig v Commission\" and \"United Brands v Commission\".\n\nOne of the paramount aims of the founding fathers of the European Community - statesmen around Jean Monnet and Robert Schuman - was the establishment of a Single Market. To achieve this, a compatible, transparent and fairly standardised regulatory framework for Competition Law had to be created. The constitutive legislative act was Council Regulation 17/62 (now superseded). The wording of Reg 17/62 was developed in a pre \"Van Gend en Loos\" period in EC legal evolution, when the supremacy of EC law was not yet fully established. To avoid different interpretations of EC Competition Law, which could vary from one national court to the next, the Commission was made to assume the role of central enforcement authority.\n\nThe first major decision under Article 101 (then Article 85) was taken by the Commission in 1964. They found that Grundig, a German manufacturer of household appliances, acted illegally in granting exclusive dealership rights to its French subsidiary. In \"Consten & Grundig\" [1966] the European Court of Justice upheld the Commission's decision, expanded the definition of measures affecting trade to include \"potential effects\" , and generally anchored its key position in Competition Law enforcement alongside the Commission. Subsequent enforcement of Art 101 of the TFEU Treaty (combating anti-competitive business agreements) by the two institutions has generally been regarded as effective. Yet some analysts assert that the Commission's monopoly policy (the enforcement of Art 102) has been \"largely ineffective\", because of the resistance of individual Member State governments that sought to shield their most salient national companies from legal challenges. The Commission also received criticism from the academic quarters. For instance, Valentine Korah, an eminent legal analyst in the field, argued that the Commission was too strict in its application of EC Competition rules and often ignored the dynamics of company behaviour, which, in her opinion, could actually be beneficial to consumers and to the quality of available goods in some cases.\n\nNonetheless, the arrangements in place worked fairly well until the mid-1980s, when it became clear that with the passage of time, as the European economy steadily grew in size and anti-competitive activities and market practices became more complex in nature, the Commission would eventually be unable to deal with its workload. The central dominance of the Directorate-General for Competition has been challenged by the rapid growth and sophistication of the National Competition Authorities (NCAs) and by increased criticism from the European courts with respect to procedure, interpretation and economic analysis. These problems have been magnified by the increasingly unmanageable workload of the centralised corporate notification system. A further reason why a reform of the old Regulation 17/62 was needed, was the looming enlargement of the EU, by which its membership was to expand to 25 by 2004 and 27 by 2007. Given the still developing nature of the east-central European new market economies, the already inundated Commission anticipated a further significant increase in its workload.\n\nTo all these challenges, the Commission has responded with a strategy to decentralise the implementation of the Competition rules through the so-called Modernisation Regulation. EU Council Regulation 1/2003 places National Competition Authorities and Member State national courts at the heart of the enforcement of Arts 101 & 102. Decentralised enforcement has for long been the usual way for other EC rules, Reg 1/2003 finally extended this to Competition Law as well. The Commission still retained an important role in the enforcement mechanism, as the co-ordinating force in the newly created European Competition Network (ECN). This Network, made up of the national bodies plus the Commission, manages the flow of information between NCAs and maintains the coherence and integrity of the system. At the time, Competition Commissioner Mario Monti hailed this regulation as one that will 'revolutionise' the enforcement of Arts 101 & 102. Since May 2004, all NCAs and national courts are empowered to fully apply the Competition provisions of the EC Treaty. In its 2005 report, the OECD lauded the modernisation effort as promising, and noted that decentralisation helps to redirect resources so the DG Competition can concentrate on complex, Community-wide investigations. Yet most recent developments shed doubt on the efficacy of the new arrangements. For instance, on 20 December 2006, the Commission publicly backed down from 'unbundling' French (EdF) and German (E.ON) energy giants, facing tough opposition from Member State governments. Another legal battle is currently ongoing over the E.ON-Endesa merger, where the Commission has been trying to enforce the free movement of capital, while Spain firmly protects its perceived national interests. It remains to be seen whether NCAs will be willing to challenge their own national 'champion companies' under EC Competition Law, or whether patriotic feelings prevail.\n\nBecause the logic of competition is most appropriate for private enterprise, the core of EU competition regulation targets profit making corporations. This said, regulation necessarily extends further and in the TFEU, both articles 101 and 102 use the ambiguous concept of \"undertaking\" to delimit competition law's reach. This uncomfortable English word, which is essentially a literal translation of the German word \"Unternehmen\", was discussed in \"Höfner and Elser v Macrotron GmbH\". The European Court of Justice described \"undertaking\" to mean any person (natural or legal) \"engaged in an economic activity\", which potentially included state run enterprises in cases where they pursued economic activities like a private business. This included a state run employment agency, where it attempted to make money but was not in a position to meet demand. By contrast, in \"FENIN v Commission\", public services which were run on the basis of \"solidarity\" for a \"social purpose\" were said to be outside the scope of competition law. Self-employed people, who are in business on their own account, will be classed as undertakings, but employees are wholly excluded. Following the same principle that was laid down by the US Clayton Act 1914, they are by their \"very nature the opposite of the independent exercise of an economic or commercial activity\". This means that trade unions cannot be regarded as subject to competition law, because their central objective is to remedy the inequality of bargaining power that exists in dealing with employers who are generally organised in a corporate form.\n\n\nUnder the authority of Article 102 TFEU, the European Commission became able not only to regulate the behaviour of large firms it claims abuse their dominant positions or market power, but also the possibility of firms gaining the position within the market structure that enables them to behave abusively in the first place. The Merger Regulation (EC) No 139/2004 deals with mergers that have a \"Community dimension\" and lays out a procedure whereby all \"concentrations\" (i.e. mergers, acquisitions, takeovers) between undertakings are subject to approval by the European Commission.\n\nA merger or acquisition involves, from a competition law perspective, the concentration of economic power in the hands of fewer than before. In the European Union, under the Merger Regulation 139/2004. This is known as the \"ECMR\", and the authority for the Commission to pass this regulation is found under Art. 103 TFEU. Competition law requires that firms proposing to merge gain authorisation from the relevant government authority, or simply go ahead but face the prospect of demerger should the concentration later be found to lessen competition.\n\nThe central provision under EU law asks whether a concentration \"would\" if it went ahead \"significantly impede effective competition... in particular as a result of the creation or strengthening of a dominant position...\" Under article 3(1), a concentration means a \"change of control on a lasting basis results from (a) the merger of two or more previously independent undertakings... (b) the acquisition... if direct or indirect control of the whole or parts of one or more other undertakings.\"\n\nThis usually means that one firm buys out the shares of another. The reasons for oversight of economic concentrations by the state are the same as the reasons to restrict firms who abuse a position of dominance, only that regulation of mergers and acquisitions attempts to deal with the problem before it arises, \"ex ante\" prevention of creating dominant firms. In the case of \"Gencor Ltd v Commission\" the EU Court of First Instance wrote merger control is there \"...to avoid the establishment of market structures which may create or strengthen a dominant position and not need to control directly possible abuses of dominant positions.\"\n\nWhat amounts to a substantial lessening of, or significant impediment to competition is usually answered through empirical study. The market shares of the merging companies can be assessed and added, although this kind of analysis only gives rise to presumptions, not conclusions. The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index is used to calculate the \"density\" of the market, or what concentration exists. Aside from the maths, it is important to consider the product in question and the rate of technical innovation in the market. A further problem of collective dominance, or oligopoly through \"economic links\" can arise, whereby the new market becomes more conducive to collusion. It is relevant how transparent a market is, because a more concentrated structure could mean firms can co-ordinate their behaviour more easily, whether firms can deploy deterrents and whether firms are safe from a reaction by their competitors and consumers. The entry of new firms to the market, and any barriers that they might encounter should be considered.\n\nCertain exceptions exist, by which a firm whose conduct may be \"prima facie\" anti-competitive can be sanctioned under the reference to \"technical and economic progress\" in Art. 2 of the ECMR. Another defence might be that a firm being taken over is about to fail or go insolvent, and taking it over does not diminish the competitive state any more than what would happen anyway. Mergers vertically in the market are rarely of concern, although in \"AOL/Time Warner\" the European Commission required that a joint venture with a competitor Bertelsmann be ceased beforehand. The EU authorities have also focussed lately on the effect of conglomerate mergers, where companies acquire a large portfolio of related products, though without necessarily dominant shares in any individual market.\n\n\nArticle 102 is aimed at preventing undertakings that have a dominant market position from abusing that position to the detriment of consumers. It provides that,\n\"Any abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position within the common market or in a substantial part of it shall be prohibited as incompatible with the common market insofar as it may affect trade between Member States.\nThis can mean,\n(a) directly or indirectly imposing unfair purchase or selling prices or other unfair trading conditions; \n(b) limiting production, markets or technical development to the prejudice of consumers;\n\n(c) applying dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with other trading parties, thereby placing them at a competitive disadvantage; \n(d) making the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by their nature or according to commercial usage, have no connection with the subject of such contracts.\"\n\nThe provision aims to protect competition and promote consumer welfare by preventing firms from abusing dominant market positions. This objective has been emphasised by EU institutions and officials on numerous occasions – for example, it was stated as such during the judgement in \"Deutsche Telekom v Commission\", whilst the former Commissioner for Competition, Neelie Kroes, also specified in 2005 that: “First, it is competition, and not competitors, that is to be protected. Second, ultimately the aim is to avoid consumer harm”.\n\nAdditionally, the European Commission published its \"Guidance on Article [102] Enforcement Priorities\", which details the body's aims when applying Article 102, reiterating that the ultimate goal is the protection of the competitive process and the concomitant consumer benefits that are derived from it.\n\nNotwithstanding these stated objectives, Article 102 is quite controversial and has been much scrutinised. In large part, this stems from the fact that the provision applies only where dominance is present; meaning a firm that is not in a dominant market position could legitimately pursue competitive practices – such as bundling – that would otherwise constitute abuse if committed by a dominant firm. That is not to suggest that it is unlawful for a firm to hold a dominant position; rather, it is the \"abuse\" of that position that is the concern of Article 102 – as was stated in \"Michelin v Commission\" a dominant firm has a: “special responsibility not to allow its conduct to impair undistorted competition”.\n\nIn applying Article 102, the Commission must consider two points. Firstly, it is necessary to show that an undertaking holds a dominant position in the relevant market and, secondly, there must be an analysis of the undertaking's behaviour to ascertain whether it is abusive. Determining dominance is often a question of whether a firm behaves \"to an appreciable extent independently of its competitors, customers and ultimately of its consumer.\" Under EU law, very large market shares raise a presumption that a firm is dominant, which may be rebuttable. If a firm has a dominant position, because it has beyond a 39.7% market share then there is \"a special responsibility not to allow its conduct to impair competition on the common market\" Same as with collusive conduct, market shares are determined with reference to the particular market in which the firm and product in question is sold.\n\nWith regard to abuse, it is possible to identify three different forms that the EU Commission and Courts have recognised. Firstly, there are \"exploitative\" abuses, whereby a dominant firm abuses its market position to exploit consumers – for example by reducing output and increasing the price of its goods or services. Secondly, there are \"exclusionary\" abuses, involving behaviour by a dominant firm which is aimed at, or has the effect of, preventing the development of competition by excluding competitors. Finally, there exists a possible third category of \"single market\" abuse, which concerns behaviour that is harmful to the principles of the single market more broadly, such as the impeding of parallel imports or limiting of intra-brand competition.\n\nAlthough there is no rigid demarcation between these three types, Article 102 has most frequently been applied to forms of conduct falling under the heading of exclusionary abuse. Generally, this is because exploitative abuses are perceived to be less invidious than exclusionary abuses because the former can easily be remedied by competitors provided there are no barriers to market entry, whilst the latter require more authoritative intervention. Indeed, the Commission's \"Guidance\" explicitly recognises the distinction between the different types of abusive conduct and states that the Guidance is limited to examples of exclusionary abuse. As such, much of the jurisprudence of Article 102 concerns behaviour which can be categorised as exclusionary.\n\nThe Article does not contain an explicit definition of what amounts to abusive conduct and the courts have made clear that the types of abusive conduct in which a dominant firm may engage is not closed. However, it is possible to discern a general meaning of the term from the jurisprudence of the EU courts. In \"Hoffman-La Roche\", it was specified that dominant firms must refrain from ‘methods different from those which condition normal competition’. This notion of ‘normal’ competition has developed into the idea of ‘competition on the merits’, which states that competitive practices leading to the marginalisation of inefficient competitors will be permissible so long as it is within the realm of normal, or on the merit, competitive behaviour. The Commission provides examples of normal, positive, competitive behaviour as offering lower prices, better quality products and a wider choice of new and improved goods and services. From this, it can be inferred that behaviour that is abnormal – or not ‘on the merits’ – and therefore amounting to abuse, includes such infractions as margin squeezing, refusals to supply and the misleading of patent authorities.\n\nSome examples of the types of conduct held by the EU Courts to constitute abuse include:\nWhereby a customer is required to purchase all or most of a particular type of good or service from a dominant supplier and is prevented from buying from others.\nPurported loyalty schemes that are equivalent in effect to exclusive dealing agreements.\nTying one product to the sale of another, thereby restricting consumer choice.\nSimilar to tying, whereby a supplier will only supply its products in a bundle with one or more other products.\nVertical practices that have the effect of excluding downstream competitors.\nWhereby a dominant firm holding patented rights refuses to licence those rights to others.\nRefusing to supply a competitor with a good or service, often in a bid to drive them out of the market.\nWhere a dominant firm deliberately reduces prices to loss-making levels in order to force competitors out of the market. \nArbitrarily charging some market participants higher prices that are unconnected to the actual costs of supplying the goods or services.\n\nWhilst there are no statutory defences under Article 102, the Court of Justice has stressed that a dominant firm may seek to justify behaviour that would otherwise constitute abuse, either by arguing that the behaviour is objectively justifiable or by showing that any resulting negative consequences are outweighed by the greater efficiencies it promotes.\nIn order for behaviour to be objectively justifiable, the conduct in question must be proportionate and would have to be based on factors external to the dominant undertaking's control – such as health or safety considerations. To substantiate a claim on efficiency grounds, the Commission's \"Guidance\" states that four cumulative conditions must be satisfied:\nIf an abuse of dominance is established, the Commission has the power, pursuant to Article 23 of Regulation 1/2003, to impose a fine and to order the dominant undertaking to cease and desist from the unlawful conduct in question. Additionally, though yet to be imposed, Article 7 of Regulation 1/2003 permits the Commission, where proportionate and necessary, to order the divestiture of an undertaking's assets.\n\nPossibly the least contentious function of competition law is to control cartels among private businesses. Any \"undertaking\" is regulated, and this concept embraces \"de facto\" economic units, or enterprises, regardless of whether they are a single corporation, or a group of multiple companies linked through ownership or contract.\n\nTo violate TFEU article 101, undertakings must then have formed an agreement, developed a \"concerted practice\", or, within an association, taken a decision. Like US antitrust, this just means all the same thing; any kind of dealing or contact, or a \"meeting of the minds\" between parties. Covered therefore is a whole range of behaviour from a strong handshaken, written or verbal agreement to a supplier sending invoices with directions not to export to its retailer who gives \"tacit acquiescence\" to the conduct. Article 101(1) prohibits,\n\n\"All agreements between undertakings, decisions by associations of undertakings and concerted practices which may affect trade between member states and which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the common market.\"\n\nThis includes both horizontal (e.g. between retailers) and vertical (e.g. between retailers and suppliers) agreements, effectively outlawing the operation of cartels within the EU. Article 101 has been construed very widely to include both informal agreements (gentlemen's agreements) and concerted practices where firms tend to raise or lower prices at the same time without having physically agreed to do so. However, a coincidental increase in prices will not in itself prove a concerted practice, there must also be evidence that the parties involved were aware that their behaviour may prejudice the normal operation of the competition within the common market. This latter subjective requirement of knowledge is not, in principle, necessary in respect of agreements. As far as agreements are concerned the mere anticompetitive effect is sufficient to make it illegal even if the parties were unaware of it or did not intend such effect to take place.\n\nExemptions to Article 101 behaviour fall into three categories. Firstly, Article 101(3) creates an exemption for practices beneficial to consumers, e.g., by facilitating technological advances, but without restricting all competition in the area. In practice the Commission gave very few official exemptions and a new system for dealing with them is currently under review. Secondly, the Commission agreed to exempt 'Agreements of minor importance' (except those fixing sale prices) from Article 101. This exemption applies to small companies, together holding no more than 10% of the relevant market. In this situation as with Article 102 (see below), market definition is a crucial, but often highly difficult, matter to resolve. Thirdly, the Commission has also introduced a collection of block exemptions for different contract types. These include a list of contract permitted terms and a list of banned terms in these exemptions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSince the Modernisation Regulation, the European Union has sought to encourage private enforcement of competition law.\n\n\nThe task of tracking down and punishing those in breach of competition law has been entrusted to the European Commission, which receives its powers under Article 105 TFEU. Under this Article, the European Commission is charged with the duty of ensuring the application of Articles 101 and 102 TFEU and of investigating suspected infringements of these Articles. The European Commission and national competition authorities have wide on-site investigation powers. Article 105 TFEU grants extensive investigative powers including the notorious power to carry out dawn raids on the premises of suspected undertakings and private homes and vehicles.\n\nThere are many ways in which the European Commission could become aware of a potential violation: \nThe European Commission may carry out investigation or inspections, for which it is empowered to request information from governments, competent authorities of Member States, and undertakings. The Commission also provides a \"leniency policy\", under which companies that whistle blow over the anti-competition policies of cartels are treated leniently and may obtain either total immunity or a reduction in fines.\nIn some cases, parties have sought to resist the taking of certain documents during an inspection based on the argument that those documents are covered by legal professional privilege between lawyer and client. The ECJ held that such a privilege was recognised by EC law to a limited extent at least.\n\nThe European Commission also could become aware of a potential competition violation through the complaint from an aggrieved party. In addition, Member States and any natural or legal person are entitled to make a complaint if they have a legitimate interest.\n\nArticle 101 (2) TFEU considers any undertaking found in breach of Article 101 TFEU to be null and void and that agreements cannot be legally enforced. In addition, the European Commission may impose a fine pursuant to Article 23 of Regulation 1/2003. These fines are not fixed and can extend into millions of Euros, up to a maximum of 10% of the total worldwide turnover of each of the undertakings participating in the infringement, although there may be a decrease in case of cooperation and increase in case of recidivism. Fines of up to 5% of the average daily turnover may also be levied for every day an undertaking fails to comply with Commission requirements. The gravity and duration of the infringement are to be taken into account in determining the amount of the fine. This uncertainty acts as a powerful deterrent and ensures that companies are unable to undertake a cost/benefit analysis before breaching competition law.\nThe Commission guideline on the method of setting fines imposed pursuant to Article 23 (2) (a) of Regulation 1/2003 uses a two-step methodology:\n\n\nThe basic amount relates, inter alia, to the proportion of the value of the sales depending on the degree of the gravity of the infringement. In this regard, Article 5 of the aforementioned guideline states, that\n\nIn a second step, this basic amount may be adjusted on grounds of recidivism or leniency. In the latter case, immunity from fines may be granted to the company who submits evidence first to the European Commission which enables it to carry out an investigation and/or to find an infringement of Article 101 TFEU.\n\nThe highest cartel fine which was ever imposed was related to a cartel consisting of four car glass producers. The companies Asahi, Pilkington, Saint-Gobain and Soliver were fined over €1.3 billion. Between 1998 and early 2003 those companies had discussed target prices, market sharing and customer allocation in a series of meetings and other illicit contacts. In this case, the European Commission started its investigation based on an anonymous \"tip\".\n\nAnother negative consequence for the companies involved in cartel cases may be the adverse publicity which may damage the company's reputation.\n\nQuestions of reform have circulated around whether to introduce US style treble damages as added deterrent against competition law violaters. The recent Modernisation Regulation 1/2003 has meant that the European Commission no longer has a monopoly on enforcement, and that private parties may bring suits in national courts. Hence, there has been debate over the legitimacy of private damages actions in traditions that shy from imposing punitive measures in civil actions.\n\nAccording to the Court of Justice of the European Union, any citizen or business who suffers harm as a result of a breach of the European Union competition rules (Articles 101 and 102 TFEU) should be able to obtain reparation from the party who caused the harm. However, despite this requirement under European law to establish an effective legal framework enabling victims to exercise their right to compensation, victims of European Union competition law infringements to date very often do not obtain reparation for the harm suffered. The amount of compensation that these victims are foregoing is in the range of several billion Euros a year. Therefore, the European Commission has taken a number steps since 2004 to stimulate the debate on that topic and elicit feedback from stakeholders on a number of possible options which could facilitate antitrust damages actions. Based on the outcomes of several public consultations, the Commission has suggested specific policy choices and measures in a White Paper.\n\nIn 2014, the European Parliament and European Council issued a joint directive on 'certain rules governing actions for damages under national law for infringements of the competition law provisions of the Members States and of the European Union'. \n\nA special instrument of the European Commission is the so-called sector inquiry in accordance with Art. 17 of Regulation 1/2003.\nArticle 17 (1) first paragraph of Council Regulation 1/2003 reads:\n\nIn case of sector inquiries, the European Commission follows its reasonable suspicion that the competition in a particular industry sector or solely related to a certain type of contract which is used in various industry sectors is prevented, restricted or distorted within the common market. Thus, in this case not a specific violation is investigated. Nevertheless, the European Commission has almost all avenues of investigation at its disposal, which it may use to investigate and track down violations of competition law. The European Commission may decide to start a sector inquiry when a market does not seem to be working as well as it should. This might be suggested by evidence such as limited trade between Member States, lack of new entrants on the market, the rigidity of prices, or other circumstances suggest that competition may be restricted or distorted within the common market. In the course of the inquiry, the Commission may request that firms - undertakings or associations of undertakings - concerned supply information (for example, price information). This information is used by the European Commission to assess whether it needs to open specific investigations into intervene to ensure the respect of EU rules on restrictive agreements and abuse of dominant position (Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union).\n\nThere has been an increased use of this tool in the recent years, as it is not possible any more for companies to register a cartel or agreement which might be in breach of competition law with the European Commission, but the companies are responsible themselves for assessing whether their agreements constitute a violation of European Union Competition Law (self assessment).\n\nTraditionally, agreements had, subject to certain exceptions, to be notified to the European Commission, and the Commission had a monopoly over the application of Article 101 TFEU (former Article 81 (3) EG). Because the European Commission did not have the resources to deal with all the agreements notified, notification was abolished.\nOne of the most spectacular sector inquiry was the pharmaceutical sector inquiry which took place in 2008 and 2009 in which the European Commission used dawn raids from the beginning. The European Commission launched a sector inquiry into EU pharmaceuticals markets under the European Competition rules because information relating to innovative and generic medicines suggested that competition may be restricted or distorted. The inquiry related to the period 2000 to 2007 and involved investigation of a sample of 219 medicines. Taking into account that sector inquiries are a tool under European Competition law, the inquiry's main focus was company behaviour. The inquiry therefore concentrated on those practices which companies may use to block or delay generic competition as well as to block or delay the development of competing originator drugs.\n\nThe following sectors have also been subject of a sector inquiry:\n\n\nThe leniency policy consists in abstaining from prosecuting firms that, being party to a cartel, inform the Commission of its existence. The leniency policy was first applied in 2002.\n\nThe \"Commission Notice on Immunity from fines and reduction of fines in cartel cases\" guarantees immunity and penalty reductions to firms who co-operate with the Commission in detecting cartels.\n\nII.A, §8:The Commission will \"grant immunity\" from any fine which would otherwise have been imposed to an \"undertaking disclosing its participation in an alleged cartel\" affecting the Community if that undertaking is the first to submit information and evidence which in the Commission's view will enable it to:\n(a) carry out a targeted inspection in connection with the alleged cartel; or\n(b) find an infringement of Article 81 EC in connection with the alleged cartel.\n\nThe mechanism is straightforward. The first firm to acknowledge their crime and inform the Commission will receive complete immunity, that is, no fine will be applied. Co-operation with the Commission will also be gratified with reductions in the fines, in the following way:\n\nThis policy has been of great success as it has increased cartel detection to such an extent that nowadays most cartel investigations are started according to the leniency policy. The purpose of a sliding scale in fine reductions is to encourage a \"race to confess\" among cartel members. In cross border or international investigations, cartel members are often at pains to inform not only the EU Commission, but also National Competition Authorities (e.g. the Office of Fair Trading and the \"Bundeskartellamt\") and authorities across the globe.\n\n\nFollowing the introduction of the Enterprise Act 2002 the Office of Fair Trading was responsible for enforcing competition law (enshrined in The Competition Act 1998) in the UK. These powers are shared with concurrent sectoral regulators such as Ofgem in energy, Ofcom in telecoms, the ORR in rail and Ofwat in water. The OFT was replaced by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), established on 1 April 2014, combining many of the functions of the OFT and the Competition Commission (CC).\n\n\nThe \"Autorité de la concurrence\"\n\nThe \"Bundeskartellamt\",\n\n\nThe \"Autorità Garante della Concorrenza e del Mercato\" in Italy was established in 1990.\n\n\nThe Office of Competition and Consumer Protection (UOKiK) was established in 1990 as the Antimonopoly Office. In 1989, on the verge of a political breakthrough, when the economy was based on the free market mechanisms, an Act on counteracting monopolistic practices was passed on 24 February 1990. It constituted an important element of the market reform programme. The structure of the economy, inherited from the central planning system, was characterised with a high level of monopolisation, which could significantly limit the success of the economic transformation. In this situation, promotion of competition and counteracting the anti-market behaviours of the monopolists was especially significant. Therefore, the Antimonopoly Office - AO (Urząd Antymonopolowy - UA) was appointed under this act, and commenced its operation in May once the Council of Ministers passed the charter. Also its first regional offices commenced operations in that very same year.\n\nRight now the Office works under the name Office of Competition and Consumer Protection and bases its activities on the newly enacted Act on the Protection of Competition and Consumers from 2007.\n\n\nChapter 5 of the post war Havana Charter contained an Antitrust code but this was never incorporated into the WTO's forerunner, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1947. Office of Fair Trading Director and Professor Richard Whish wrote sceptically that it \"seems unlikely at the current stage of its development that the WTO will metamorphose into a global competition authority.\" Despite that, at the ongoing Doha round of trade talks for the World Trade Organization, discussion includes the prospect of competition law enforcement moving up to a global level. While it is incapable of enforcement itself, the newly established International Competition Network (ICN) is a way for national authorities to coordinate their own enforcement activities.\n\n\nArticle 106(2) of the TFEU states that nothing in the rules can be used to obstruct a member state's right to deliver public services, but that otherwise public enterprises must play by the same rules on collusion and abuse of dominance as everyone else.\n\nServices of general economic interest is more technical term for what are commonly called public services. The settlement under the European Treaties was meant to preserve Europe's social character and institutions. Article 86 refers first of all to \"undertakings\", which has been defined to restrict the scope of competition law's application. In \"Cisal\" a managing director challenged the state's compulsory workplace accident and disease insurance scheme. This was run by a body known as \"INAIL\". The ECJ held that the competition laws in this instance were not applicable. \"Undertaking\" was a term that should be reserved for entities that carried on some kind of economic activity. \"INAIL\" operated according to the principle of solidarity, because for example, contributions from high paid workers subsidise the low paid workers. Their activities therefore fall outside competition law's scope.\n\nThe substance of Article 106(2) also makes clear that competition law will be applied generally, but not where public services being provided might be obstructed. An example is shown in the ‘’Ambulanz Gloeckner’’ case. In Rheinland Pfalz, Germany, ambulances were provided exclusively by a company that also had the right to provide some non-emergency transport. The rationale was that ambulances were not profitable, not the other transport forms were, so the company was allowed to set profits of one sector off to the other, the alternative being higher taxation. The ECJ held that this was legitimate, clarfiying that,\n\n\"the extension of the medical aid organisations’ exclusive rights to the non-emergency transport sector does indeed enable them to discharge their general-interest task of providing emergency transport in conditions of economic equilibrium. The possibility that would be open to private operators to concentrate, in the non-emergency sector, on more profitable journeys could affect the degree of economic viability of the service provided and, consequently, jeopardise the quality and reliability of that service.\"\n\nThe ECJ did however insist that demand on the \"subsidising\" market must be met by the state's regime. In other words, the state is always under a duty to ensure efficient service. Political concern for the maintenance of a social European economy was expressed during the drafting of the Treaty of Amsterdam, where a new Article 16 was inserted. This affirms, \"the place occupied by services of general economic interest in the shared values of the Union as well as their role in promoting social and territorial cohesion.\" The ongoing debate is at what point the delicate line between the market and public services ought to be drawn.\n\nEU Member states must not allow or assist businesses (\"undertakings\" in EU jargon) to infringe European Union competition law. As the European Union is made up of independent member states, both competition policy and the creation of the European single market could be rendered ineffective were member states free to support national companies as they saw fit. A 2013 Civitas report lists some of the artifices used by participants to skirt the state aid rules on procurement. \n\nCompanies affected by article 106 may be state owned or privately owned companies which are given special rights such as near or total monopoly to provide a certain service. The leading case in 1991, \"Régie des Télegraphes et des Téléphones v GB-Inno-BM\", which involved a small telephone equipment maker, GB and the Belgian state telephone provider, RTT, which had the exclusive power to grant approved phones to connect to the telephone network. GB was selling its phones, which were unapproved by RTT, and at lower prices than RTT sold theirs. RTT sued them, demanding that GB inform customers that their phones were unapproved. GB argued that the special rights enjoyed by RTT under Belgian law infringed Article 86, and the case went to the European Court of Justice (ECJ). The ECJ held that,\n\n\"To entrust to an undertaking which markets telephone equipment the task of drawing up specifications for such equipment, of monitoring their application and granting type-approval in respect thereof is tantamount to conferring on it the power to determine at will which equipment can be connected to the public network and thus gives it an obvious advantage over its competitors which is inimical to the equality of chances of traders, without which the existence of an undistorted system of competition cannot be guaranteed. Such a restriction on competition cannot be regarded as justified by a public service of general economic interest...\"\n\nThe ECJ recommended that the Belgian government have an independent body to approve phone specifications, because it was wrong to have the state company both making phones and setting standards. RTT's market was opened to competition. An interesting aspect of the case was that the ECJ interpreted the effect of RTT's exclusive power as an \"abuse\" of its dominant position, so no abusive \"action\" as such by RTT needed to take place. The issue was further considered in \"Albany International\" Albany was a textile company, which found a cheap pension provider for its employees. It refused to pay contributions to the \"Textile Trade Industry Fund\", which the state had given the exclusive right to. Albany argued that the scheme was contrary to EU Competition law. The ECJ ruled that the scheme infringed then Article 86(1), as \"undertakings are unable to entrust the management of such a pension scheme to a single insurer and the resulting restriction of competition derives directly from the exclusive right conferred on the sectoral pension fund.\" But the scheme was justified under then Article 86(2), being a service of general economic interest.\n\nArticle 107 TFEU, similar to Article 101 TFEU, lays down a general rule that the state may not aid or subsidise private parties in distortion of free competition, but has the power to approve exceptions for specific projects addressing natural disasters or regional development. The general definition of State Aid is set out in Article 107(1) of the TFEU. Measures which fall within the definition of State Aid are unlawful unless provided under an exemption or notified.\n\nFor there to be State Aid under Article 107(1) of the TFEU each of the following must be present:\n\nWhere all of these criteria are met, State Aid is present and the support shall be unlawful unless provided under a European Commission exemption. The European Commission applies a number of exemptions which enable aid to be lawful. The European Commission will also approve State Aid cases under the notification procedure. A report by the European Defense Agency deals with challenges to a \"Level Playing Field for European Defence Industries: the Role of Ownership and Public Aid Practices\"\n\nState Aid law is an important issue for all public sector organisations and recipients of public sector support in the European Union because unlawful aid can be clawed back with compound interest.\n\nThere is some scepticism about the effectiveness of competition law in achieving economic progress and its interference with the provision of public services. France's former president Nicolas Sarkozy has called for the reference in the preamble to the Treaty of the European Union to the goal of \"free and undistorted competition\" to be removed. Though competition law itself would have remained unchanged, other goals of the preamble—which include \"full employment\" and \"social progress\"—carry the perception of greater specificity, and as being ends in themselves, while \"free competition\" is merely a means.\n\nThe EU liberalisation programme entails a broadening of sector regulation, and extending competition law to previously state monopolised industries. The EU has also introduced positive integration measures to liberalise the internal market. There has at times been a tension between introduction of competition and the maintenance of universal and high quality service.\n\nIn the \"Corbeau\" case, Mr Corbeau had wanted to operate a rapid delivery service for post, which infringed the Belgian Regie des Postes' exclusive right to operate all services. The ECJ held the legislation would be contrary to Article 86 where it was excessive and unnecessary to guarantee the provision of services of general economic interest. It pointed out however that the postal regime (as was the case in most countries) allowed the post office to \"offset less profitable sectors against the profitable sectors\" of post operations. To provide universal service, a restriction of competition could be justified. The court went on to say,\n\n\"to authorise individual undertakings to compete with the holder of the exclusive rights in the sectors of their choice corresponding to those rights would make it possible for them to concentrate on the economically profitable operations and to offer more advantageous tariffs than those adopted by the holders of the exclusive rights since, unlike the latter, they are not bound for economic reasons to offset losses in the unprofitable sectors against profits in the more profitable sectors.\"\n\nThis meant a core of economic sectors in postal services could be reserved for financing the state industry. This was followed by the Postal Services Directive 97/67/EC, which required Member States to \"ensure that users enjoy the right to a universal service involving the permanent provision of a postal service... at all points in their territory.\" This means once a working day deliveries and pick-ups, and that services that could be reserved for state monopolies include \"clearance, sorting, transport and delivery of items of domestic correspondence and incoming cross-border correspondence\". For countries that had not liberalised postal services in any measure, the directive contained provisions to gradually open up to competition. It was intended to strike a balance between competition and continued quality service. In the \"Deutsche Post\" decision the Commission took strong enforcement action. Deutsche Post was accused of predatory pricing in the business parcel delivery sector (i.e. not one of the services \"reserved\" under the directive) by the private firm UPS. The Commission ordered the structural separation of the normal postal services from business deliveries by Deutsche Post.\n\n\nArticle 101 TFEU's goals are unclear. There are two main schools of thought. The predominant view is that only consumer welfare considerations are relevant there. However, a recent book argues that this position is erroneous and that other Member State and European Union public policy goals (such as public health and the environment) should also be considered there. If this argument is correct then it could have a profound effect on the outcome of cases as well as the Modernisation process as a whole.\n\nThe theory behind mergers is that transaction costs can be reduced compared to operating on an open market through bilateral contracts. Concentrations can increase economies of scale and scope. However, often firms take advantage of their increase in market power, their increased market share and decreased number of competitors, which can have a knock on effect on the deal that consumers get. Merger control is about predicting what the market might be like, not knowing and making a judgment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4328205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4328205", "title": "Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977", "text": "Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977\n\nThe Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (Public Law 95-164) amended the Coal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1969. It can be found in the United States Code under Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining, Chapter 22, Mine Safety and Health.\n\nThe S. 717 legislation was passed by the 95th United States Congressional session and enacted into law by the 39th President of the United States Jimmy Carter on November 9, 1977.\n\nThe law of the United States enacted on November 9, 1977 took effect one hundred and twenty days later. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6249111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6249111", "title": "Fishery Limits Act 1976", "text": "Fishery Limits Act 1976\n\nThe Fishery Limits Act 1976 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (1977 c. 86) in order to implement the extension of fishing waters under the European Community's Common Fisheries Policy into British law.\n\nThe Act extended the fishing limits from to and was in force with the members of the EEC and nine other countries. Iceland, with whom the United Kingdom had clashed over fishing rights in the so-called \"Cod War\", was not included due to separate negotiations with the EEC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26935230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26935230", "title": "Free Knowledge Foundation", "text": "Free Knowledge Foundation\n\nThe Free Knowledge Foundation (FKF; ) is an organization aiming to promote Free Knowledge, including Free Software and Free Standards. It was founded in 2004 and is based in Madrid, Spain.\n\nFKF works with Politicians, Educators, the Media, and other important social agents to create awareness about Free Knowledge, Free Software and Free Standards.\n\nPablo Machón is FKF's President since 2004. In 2005, the Foundation appointed Richard Stallman as Patron of Honor.\n\nIn 2006 the FKF became an associate organization of the Free Software Foundation Europe.\n\nFKF organizes LibreMeeting, the International Free Knowledge Meeting of Madrid. It is usually held at La Cristelera Residence, in the town of Miraflores de la Sierra, 50 km. away from Madrid.\n\nThe Foundation presents the libre.org awards at LibreMeeting. These awards are honored to people or organizations that promote free knowledge. Some of the recipients are:\n\n\nThe FKF organizes other events apart from Libremeeting, and participates with speakers at relevant international events related to Free Software and Free Knowledge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58099996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58099996", "title": "Guillaume Besaucèle", "text": "Guillaume Besaucèle\n\nGuillaume Besaucèle (Saissac, 3 September 1712Carcassonne, 4 February 1801) was an ecclesiastic who was constitutional bishop of Aude from 1791 to 1801.\n\nGuillaume Besaucèle was pastor of Limousis before becoming the vicar general of Armand Bazin de Bezons, bishop of Carcassonne clearly Jansenist, then canon and finally dean of the chapter of the cathedral.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, he pronounced for the Civil Constitution of the clergy to mark his opposition to the former bishop Jean Auguste of Chastenet de Puységur and at the age of 79, he was elected constitutional bishop of the diocese of Aude, established by the revolutionary government, which partially included the diocese of Narbonne and four former bishoprics of Carcassonne, Alet, Saint-Papoul and Mirepoix. To avoid too long a trip, he was crowned in Toulouse on 15 May 1791. The episcopal see is first fixed in the old metropolitan church of Narbonne. The new elect, despite his age, undertakes a general visit of his diocese which includes no less than 567 parishes. He realized only 3/4 of his program during the suppression of the cults in 1793. He is not worried during the Terror and resumes his functions in February 1795 while fixing however his residence in Carcassonne which he estimates more Central. He adheres to the encyclicals and sends deputies to the Council of 1797.\n\nHe had difficulties in leading his vast diocese and he sets up separate administrations for the four bishoprics that compose him and is surrounded by 22 vicars general. In 1797 he suffered a stroke and on 17 July 1797 at the meeting of a synod of the Southern Metropolis and it becomes clear that he is better able to administer his diocese. The metropolitan imposes on him a coadjutor in the person of Louis Belmas, the priest of Castelnaudary whom he crowned 26 October 1800.\n\nThe old bishop died on 4 February 1801. He was buried in the cemetery of the city of Carcassonne in the same tomb as Bishop de Bezons.\n"}
{"id": "38826821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38826821", "title": "Heritage Property Act (Saskatchewan)", "text": "Heritage Property Act (Saskatchewan)\n\nThe Heritage Property Act is a provincial statute which allows for the preservation of cultural heritage properties, archaeological sites and palaeontological sites in the province of Saskatchewan, Canada.\n\nThe Act offers two types of protection:\n\nProvincial Heritage Properties are provincially significant places designated by the Minister of Tourism, Parks, Culture and Sport. As of March 2013, there are 50 such sites in Saskatchewan. Once designated, the property's heritage character-defining elements cannot be altered without the written consent from the Minister, and the site is also eligible for financial assistance from the Saskatchewan Heritage Foundation towards its preservation or restoration.\n\nLocally or regionally significant places can be designated by a city, town, village or rural municipality. Designation legally protects the property and makes it eligible for financial assistance from the Saskatchewan Heritage Foundation. There are over 750 Municipal Heritage Properties in the province.\n\nThe Act also permits municipalities to designate Municipal Heritage Conservation Districts, larger areas whose heritage value lies in their overall area character rather than in individual properties.\n\nThe Act protects archaeological and palaeontological sites and objects in Saskatchewan. In particular, every archaeological or palaeontological object found in, or taken from, land in Saskatchewan is deemed to be the property of the Crown, and no person may disturb or dislocate such objects without a valid permit issued under the Act.\n\nAlso protected are Sites of Special Interest, consisting of First Nations or Métis sites which the Act defines as properties containing any pictographs, petroglyphs, human skeletal material, burial objects, burial places or mounds, boulder effigies or medicine wheels. No one may destroy, deface, excavate or alter such sites.\n\nThe Act also provides for:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18935683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935683", "title": "Intellectual property education", "text": "Intellectual property education\n\nIntellectual property (IP) consists of four kinds: patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret. In order to understand these areas and use them correctly, a person needs to be trained and educated. That training may be delivered through various types of resources, including webinars, college courses, webpages, and books. Intellectual property education should teach the individual what these areas are, what aspects of the law apply to them, and how to understand normal situations which might arise regarding those specific area. Because of its importance, intellectual property education should be available to people of all age groups and education levels. Because intellectual property laws are specific to each country, training on the topic is also specific to each country.\n\nCopyright protects original expression of ideas in different forms, but not the ideas themselves. The goal of copyright law is to encourage individual and business entities to produce original work by rewarding them with exclusive rights for their benefits, which is subject to time and statutory exceptions.\n\nAs outlined in the United States Copyright Office's guide, Circular 1: Copyright Basics, a work is given copyright protection once it is fixed within a tangible medium, which includes \"written works, musical works, dramatic works, pantomimes and choreographic works, pictorial works, graphic works, sculptural works, motion pictures and other audiovisual works, sound recordings, and architectural works.\" The copyright protection given to the work provides the owner of the work with specific rights including the right to reproduce the work, the right to create a derivative work, the right to perform the work, the right to display the work, and the right to distribute copies of the work. \n\nUnited States copyrights law is based in U.S. Constitution, which authorizes Congress to provide authors with certain exclusive rights in their writings for a limited period of time. The \"writings\" is a broad term, which means any work of original expression in any form or medium, including literary, artistic, musical and etc.. \"Authors\" is also a broad term, which includes all creators of works.\n\nCopyright law is primarily governed by federal statute and the current controlling statute is Copyright Act of 1976, as amended. Under the Supremacy Clause of Constitution, with few exceptions, the Copyright Act of 1976 preempts state law.\n\nThe US Copyright Office administers copyrights authorized by the Copyright Act, whose functions include rulemaking, regulate copyright registration, administering statutory and compulsory licenses. It also provides legal and regulatory background information as well as procedural guidance on its website.\n\nThe federal TEACH Act (Technology, Education, and Copyright Harmonization Act of 2002) was signed in November 2002, and governs the use of copyrighted materials in online learning environments. The TEACH Act eases some of the rules put in place by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998. Many universities, including the University of Washington, provide information about compliance with the TEACH Act, often related to the use of learning management systems\n\nThough the Copyright Act preempts state law, state law covers the issues which is outside the scope of Copyright Act, such as works of authorship that have not been expressed in a tangible medium(outside of scope of \"fixed in any tangible medium of expression\"), right not equivalent to any of the \"exclusive rights\", etc..\n\nInternational copyright treaties between U.S. and other foreign jurisdictions is enforceable in U.S. territory under the Supremacy Clause, including: The Berne Convention, The Universal Copyright Convention, The WIPO Copyright Treaty, The WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty, The Geneva Phonograms Convention and TRIPS. While their specific terms are different, two fundamental rules govern each member under each treaty: member countries must meet certain minimum standards for copyright protection in their local law and provide reciprocal treatment to copyright owners in other member jurisdictions. The copyright law provided by each jurisdiction is based on its own national laws.\n\nFair use is one important topic in Copyright and Intellectual Property Education. Fair use law allows for limited use of copyrighted materials without seeking and/or acquiring copyright clearance from the copyright owner. There are four factors of fair use: (1) the purpose and character of the use, (2) the nature of the copyrighted work, (3) the amount or portion used of the work, and (4) the effect of the use. Faculty, staff, and students may find a Fair Use Checklist helpful when determining whether or not their use of a material would fall under fair use. Columbia University Libraries' Copyright Advisory Services provides their own Fair Use Checklist and information about fair use law, as well as other information regarding copyright. \n\nFor further clarification on Fair Use and how to determine if a person's use falls under that exception, Stanford University has a Charts and Tools section on their website. This website includes links to codes of best practices - including the Center for Media & Social Impact's Code of Best Practices in Fair Use for Media Literacy Education, a Digital Image Rights Computator to help a user discover if an image they wish to use is copyrighted, and a Copyright Navigator that provides basic information on how copyright law works. Each of the links on the website equips a user with enough resources to determine if their use of a copyrighted material falls under the protection of Fair Use.\n\nThe legislative intent for fair use in Section 107 in Copyright Act is stated as following: \"the bill endorses the purpose and general scope of the judicial doctrine of fair use, but there is no disposition to freeze the doctrine in the statute, especially during a period of rapid technological change. Beyond a very broad statutory explanation of what fair use is and some of the criteria applicable to it, the courts must be free to adapt the doctrine to particular situations on a case-by-case basis. Section 107 is intended to restate the present judicial doctrine of fair use, not to change, narrow, or enlarge it in any way.\" It means courts have broad discretion to decide fair use application. U.S. Copyright Office creates a Fair Use Index which summarizes the newest case law development in fair use. \n\nPublic Domain is another important concept in Copyright and Intellectual Property Education. If a work is in public domain - i.e., if its copyright has expired, been lost, or was never given - that work may be used by anyone. In order to help determine if a work is in Public Domain, Cornell University provides a Public Domain Flow Chart to help users identify if a work is protected by copyright law. Stanford University Libraries' guide, Welcome to the Public Domain, also provides in-depth information that can help users identify how a work enters the public domain based on the date it was published. For example, within the United States, all works that were created prior to 1923 are currently within the public domain. In order to further understand copyright and public domain, the Copy This Podcast provides listeners with a brief history of Copyright Law and Public Domain. Each podcast is approximately twelve minutes long and covers topics such as \"Pop Culture and the Public Domain,\" \"Fair Use: You Use It More Than You Realize,\" and \"Notice and Takedown: Leave it Be.\" Each of these podcasts features experts and scholars of copyright law and can provide users with information about how to navigate the world of copyright. \n\nOrphan works, or works where the creator or rightsholder is unable to be determined, are an important current topic in copyright law. There is currently no legislation in the United States place to fully address this issue, though progress has been made specifically for music with the Music Modernization Act in 2018. \n\nAfter the Copyright Act of 1976, copyright holders were no longer required to register copyrighted works, which benefited copyright holders by simplifying the process to obtain and maintain copyright protection, but in turn complicated the process for potential users of copyrighted material to determine ownership over certain works as the central register for copyrighted materials was no longer deemed necessary. This made any usage of copyrighted materials outside of fair use a violation of copyright, but did not take into account the drastic changes of access and dissemination that would soon occur due to digitization and the internet. \n\nIn 2006 the U.S. Copyright Office held a study and released a report on orphan works. The main conclusion was that new legislation was needed to address this issue, and that clearly delineated steps need to be identified for potential users of such works, as well as protocols set in place for when an author comes forward. \n\nAnother report, ‘Orphan Works and Mass Digitization’ was completed in 2012 with particular focus on how how efforts to preserve copyrighted material needed to be balanced with reasonable access to the work. This report laid out the prospective changes needed to alter the outdated legislation and better serve current informational needs. \n\nIt is also important to note that in 2013, the UK passed a copyright act that permitted usage of orphan works as long as a diligent effort was made and certain conditions were met, such as filing a ‘notice of use’ for the work. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22809984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22809984", "title": "Judicial activism in the European Union", "text": "Judicial activism in the European Union\n\nThe European Court of Justice has historically been an important driver of integration in the EU by performing judicial activism. \n\nIn the Cassis de Dijon Case, the European Court of Justice ruled the German laws prohibiting sales of liquors with alcohol percentages between 15% and 25% conflicted with EU laws. This ruling confirmed that EU law has primacy over member-state law.\nWhen the treaties are unclear, they leave room for the Court to interpret them in different ways. When EU treaties are negotiated, it is difficult to get all governments to agree on a clear set of laws. In order to get a compromise, governments agree to leave a decision on an issue to the Court. \nThe Court can only practice judicial activism to the extent the EU Governments leave room for interpretation in the treaties.\nThe Court makes important rulings that set the agenda for further EU integration, but it cannot happen without the consensual support of the member-states.\nThe most recent case of judicial activism of the European Court of Justice is the Metock case which determined that the strict Danish and Irish immigration laws conflict with EU laws.\n\nIn the Irish referendum on the Lisbon Treaty many issues not directly related to the treaty, such as abortion were included in the debate because of worries that the Lisbon Treaty will enable the European Court of Justice to make activist rulings in these areas.\nAfter the rejection of the Lisbon Treaty in Ireland, the Irish Government received concessions from the rest of the member states of the European Union to make written guarantees that the EU will under no circumstances interfere with Irish abortion, taxation or military neutrality. \nIreland voted on the Lisbon Treaty a second time in 2009, with a 67.13% majority voting Yes to the treaty.\n"}
{"id": "25752445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25752445", "title": "Legitimacy Act 1926", "text": "Legitimacy Act 1926\n\nThe Legitimacy Act 1926 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The purpose of the Legitimacy Act 1926 was to amend the law relating to children born out of wedlock.\n\nThe fundamental principle of the Legitimacy Act 1926 is exposed in article 1(2): \n\"\"Nothing in this Act shall operate to legitimate a person whose father or mother was married to a third person when the illegitimate person was born\".\"\nThe Act allowed children to be legitimised by the subsequent marriage of their parents, provided that neither parent had been married to a third party at the time of the birth. In those circumstances, the legitimised birth was re-entered in the birth indexes for that year (sometimes many years after the original birth). The original entry would be annotated to refer to the new entry.\n\nThe act was modified by the Legitimacy Act 1959, which extended it to children whose parent(s) had been married to somebody else when they were born.\n"}
{"id": "3734885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3734885", "title": "List of Chief Justices of Japan", "text": "List of Chief Justices of Japan\n\nThe following is a list of Chief Justices of Japan. The Chief Justice presides over the Supreme Court of Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "17758234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17758234", "title": "Ms. JD", "text": "Ms. JD\n\nMs. JD is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that promotes women in the legal profession and provides an online forum for dialogue and networking among women lawyers and law students in all arenas of the legal profession. Ms. JD was created in 2006, by women law students from 12 law schools from around the United States. Ms. JD's mission is to reinforce and expand the representation of women in law school and the legal profession.\n\nMs. JD disseminates information and fosters dialogue about and for women in the law. In addition, Ms. JD provides summer scholarships to law students working in government or public interest positions, sponsors writing contests that expand the dialogue about key issues affecting women lawyers, and organizes conferences and networking events for women lawyers and law students. Through its online website, Ms. JD explores the work of female attorneys, provides networking opportunities, offers critical analysis of relevant news, and discussions for women about their chosen fields of law. Ms. JD also spotlights women in the law and explores women-friendly practices across a spectrum of legal institutions.\n\nThough women comprise approximately half of the student body of American law schools, they represent only 17% of partners at major law firms and less than a quarter of tenured law professors. Similarly, on the national level, we have had only one female U.S. Attorney General, three female Secretaries of State, three women Supreme Court Justices, and one acting Solicitor General. Concerned by the rates at which women opt out of the legal profession, the lack of representation of women in the highest courts and echelons of the legal community, and the role of gender in the progression of many women's legal careers, a group of female law students from UC Berkeley, Cornell, Georgetown, Harvard, NYU, Stanford, UCLA, UT Austin, the University of Chicago, the University of Michigan, the University of Virginia, and Yale Law School came together and created Ms. JD in March 2006 at a two-day conference hosted by Stanford Law School. In 2006, Ms. JD incorporated in the state of California and received 501(c)(3) charitable status from the Internal Revenue Service. On March 31, 2007, Ms. JD publicly launched its website at a national conference co-hosted by Yale Law Women and hosted at Yale Law School. The Women's Law School Coalition (WLSC) merged with Ms. JD in 2007.\n\nIn April 2008, Ms. JD launched the National Women Law Students' Organization (NWLSO) in New York City with representatives from more than 70 law schools in 33 states represented. Keynote remarks were provided by Chief Judge Judith Kaye of the New York Court of Appeals; Barbara Babcock, the first female professor at Stanford Law School; and Dahlia Lithwick, senior editor and legal correspondent for Slate.com.\n\nNWLSO connects women law students across the country to identify common goals and share knowledge and support with one another and sponsor networking and informational events across the country. The national network provides women law students with connections and support to achieve equal status in the legal profession.\n\nMs. JD was a finalist for Best Law Blog at the 2007 Weblog Awards and has been regularly selected as one of the American Bar Association Journal's Top 100 Blawgs, winning the \"Your So-Called Life\" category in both 2007, and 2008.\n"}
{"id": "1110664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1110664", "title": "National Building Code of Canada", "text": "National Building Code of Canada\n\nThe National Building Code of Canada is the model building code of Canada. It is issued by National Research Council Canada. As a model code, it has no legal status until it is adopted by a jurisdiction that regulates construction.\n\nThe Constitution of Canada includes the regulation of building construction as a provincial responsibility. In a few cases, municipalities have been given the historic right of writing their own building code. In the early years of regulating building construction, this caused a patchwork of building codes across Canada.\n\nIn 1941, the federal government of Canada published the first National Building Code. This was adopted by the various provinces and municipalities in Canada during the next 20 years.\n\nOn 1 August 1947, the Division of Building Research, later named the Institute for Research in Construction (NRC-IRC), was established to provide a research service to the construction industry and to help ensure affordable and safe housing for a growing population of Canadians. Its founding head was Robert Legget. The new organization was also given the mandate to lead the development of the National Building Code of Canada. Since then, NRC-IRC has grown to encompass emergent areas of research in support of the Canadian construction sector. Early photographs of activities are available in the archives.\n\nThe Northern Research Program was housed at the Division of Building Research over the period from 1950 to 1986, and information gleaned from the Building Materials Section in York Redoubt made its way into the Code.\n\nSince 1960, there has been a revised document about every five years up to 1995. The 2000 edition of the building code was supposed to be an objective or performance-based building. However, this took considerably longer to write than foreseen and the next edition of the National Building Code of Canada was not published until 2005. The 2010 National Model Construction Codes was published on 29 November 2010. and the National Building Code of Canada 2010 incorporates energy efficiency requirements.\n\nThe first National Farm Building Code of Canada (NFBC) was first published in 1960. The Model National Energy Codes for Buildings and Houses were first published in 1997.\n\nThe Historical National Construction Codes on-line in PDF format is a single collection provided by the NRC of the English and French editions of all Code documents published between 1941 and 1998.\n\nOn behalf of the Canadian Commission on Building and Fire Codes (CCBFC) the National Research Council (NRC) Canadian Codes Center publishes national model codes documents that set out minimum requirements relating to their scope and objectives. These include the National Building Code, the National Fire Code, the National Plumbing Code, the National Energy Code of Canada for Buildings (NECB) and other documents. The Canadian Standards Association (CSA) publishes other model codes that address electrical, gas and elevator systems.\n\nRequirements on the specification of structural wood products and wood building systems is set forth in the National Building Code which is concerned with health, safety, accessibility and the protection of buildings from fire or structural damage. The Code applies mainly to new construction, but also aspects of demolition, relocation, renovation and change of building use. The current NBCC was published in 2015, and is usually updated on a five-year cycle. The next update is expected in 2020.\n\nThe National Building Code is the model building code that forms the basis for all of the provincial building codes. Some jurisdictions create their own code based on the National Building Code, other jurisdictions have adopted the National Building often with supplementary laws or regulations to the requirements in the National Building Code.\n\nBy agreement with the National Research Council of Canada, Alberta is committed to using the National Building Code of Canada as its base document with changes and modifications to suit Alberta needs in regulating the design, construction, alteration, change of use and demolition of buildings.\n\nThe Alberta Building Code 2006 was established by the Building Technical Council, a\ntechnical council of the Safety Codes Council, after consultation with municipal authorities, provincial government departments, associations, other affected parties and Code users. The Code is published for Alberta by the National Research Council of Canada.\n\nThe Alberta Building Code 2006 was adopted by provincial regulation on 2 September 2007.\n\nThe Alberta Building Code 2006 is developed and administered by Alberta Municipal and Public Affairs. In addition to the production of the Alberta Building Code, Municipal Affairs is responsible for the development and dissemination of code interpretations and alternatives known as STANDATA which come in three forms:\n\n\nThe British Columbia Building Code is based on the core concepts of the National Building Code with some variations specific to the province. The Code applies throughout British Columbia, except for some Federal lands and the City of Vancouver. The Code is published by Crown Publications.\n\nUnder the Vancouver Building Bylaw, Vancouver has developed its own building code based on the National Building Code.\n\nThe Ontario Building Code is administered by the Building and Development Branch of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing.\n\nPrior to the enactment of the first Ontario Building Code Act in 1974, individual municipalities were responsible for developing their own building codes, resulting in a fragmented and potentially confusing regulatory environment. The introduction of a provincial Building Code Act and a provincial Building Code addressed this problem by providing for uniform construction standards across Ontario.\n\nAs of Jan. 1, 2012 the benchmark requirements for energy efficiency regarding houses and large buildings was enhanced. Updated compliance paths for energy efficiency requirements in large buildings are set out in Supplementary Standard SB-10. Residential buildings intended for occupancy on a continuing basis during the winter months must meet the performance levels specified in Supplementary Standard SB-12.\n\nAs of July 1, 2012 the Ontario Building Code was amended to address the issue of balcony glass breaking on newly constructed buildings. The new amendment, Supplementary Standard SB-13, \"Glass in Guards\" is intended to help minimize the likelihood that balcony glass will break on newly constructed buildings and help reduce the chance of broken pieces falling to the ground below if balcony glass does break.\n\nThe Building Act provides for the adoption of a Construction Code and a Safety Code for buildings, equipment intended for use by the public, and electric, plumbing, and pressure installations as well as installations intended to use, store, or distribute gas. Whereas the Construction Code applies to plan and estimate designers (architects, engineers, technologists) and contractors, the Safety Code is intended for owners of buildings, equipment, and facilities.\n\nThese two codes are adopted chapter by chapter and are progressively replacing the seven laws and thirty-odd regulations that were previously in effect. The goal of this process is, obviously, to simplify regulations, but also to better define the responsibilities of owners and construction professionals.\n\nIn force since November 7, 2000. The \"Code de construction du Québec\" Consisting of the National Construction Code – 2005, amended and includes Part 10 for existing buildings.\n\nThe Quebec \"Code de Construction\" is not compulsory in the province. Municipalities have the option of adopting the code of their choice, with or without modifications. In fact, many municipalities do not have any building code officially in effect.\n\nFor example, since 2013 the \"Régie du bâtiment du Québec\" has adopted a new code (Bill 122) that requires all owners of buildings that are 5 storeys and higher which are older than 1958 to conduct a facade inspection of the building by an engineer. This code is exclusive to the province.\n\nPrince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland and Labrador have legislation enforcing the current version of the National Building Code of Canada. Manitoba, New Brunswick, and Saskatchewan have adopted the 2010 National Building Code as regulations under provincial acts.\n\nFor most construction under federal jurisdiction the National Building Code of Canada is the applicable Code. Property under federal jurisdiction includes military bases, federal government land and airports. First Nations land (as defined by the Indian Act - land set aside for the exclusive use of First Nations) may choose to adopt the National Building & Fire Codes through a Band Resolution or By Law, however the National Building and Fire codes are not legally enforceable.\n\nThe intent of the Building Code is to detail the minimum provisions acceptable to maintain the safety of buildings, with specific regard to public health, fire protection, accessibility and structural sufficiency. It is not a textbook for building design. The Building Code concerns construction, renovation, and demolition. It also covers change of use projects where the change would result in increased hazard and/or maintenance and operation in the existing building. The Code sets out technical requirements for the aforementioned project types and does not pertain to existing buildings.\n\nThe 1995 National Building Code is split into 9 parts.\n\nPart 1 gives the definitions and describes how the building code is applied. Houses and certain other small buildings (less than 3 storeys high and 600 m) are considered \"Part 9 Buildings\" and Part 9 drives the majority of the code requirements, with references to other parts where the scope of Part 9 is exceeded. Larger buildings are considered \"Part 3 buildings\" and parts 1 through 8 apply. Part 3 is the largest and most complicated part of the building code. It is intended to be used by engineers and architects. Part 9 is very prescriptive and is intended to be able to be applied by contractors.\n\nThe building code also references hundreds of other construction documents that are legally incorporated by reference and thus part of the enforceable code. This includes many design, material testing, installation and commissioning documents that are produced by a number of private organizations. Most prominent among these are the Canadian Electrical Code, Underwriters Laboratories of Canada a subsidiary of Underwriters Laboratories, documents on fire alarm design, and a number of National Fire Protection Association documents.\n"}
{"id": "4850350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4850350", "title": "Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act", "text": "Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act\n\nThe Newborns’ and Mothers’ Health Protection Act of 1996 is a piece of legislation relating to the coverage of maternity by health insurance plans in the United States of America. It was signed into law on September 26, 1996 and requires plans that offer maternity coverage to pay for at least a 48-hour hospital stay following childbirth (96-hour stay in the case of a caesarean section). \n\nThis law was effective for group health plans for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 1998. \n\nOn October 27, 1998, the Department of Labor, in conjunction with the Departments of the US Treasury and Health and Human Services, published interim regulations clarifying issues arising under the Newborns’ Act. The changes made by the regulations are effective for group health plans for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 1999. \nThe Act and its regulations provide that health plans and insurance issuers may not restrict a mother’s or newborn’s benefits for a hospital length of stay that is connected to childbirth to less than 48 hours following a vaginal delivery or 96 hours following a delivery by caesarean section. However, the attending medical provider (who may be a physician or nurse midwife) may decide, after consulting with the mother, to discharge the mother or newborn child earlier. The Act, and its regulations, prohibit incentives (either positive or negative) that could encourage less than the minimum protections under the Act as described above. \nA mother cannot be encouraged to accept less than the minimum protections available to her under the Act and an attending provider cannot be induced to discharge a mother or newborn earlier than 48 or 96 hours after delivery. The type of coverage provided by the plan (insured or self-insured) and state law will determine whether the Act applies to a mother’s or newborn’s coverage. The Act provisions always apply to coverage that is self-insured. All group health plans that provide maternity or newborn infant coverage must include a statement in their summary plan description (SPD) advising individuals of the Act's requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "36011246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36011246", "title": "Northern Cyprus constitutional referendum, 1985", "text": "Northern Cyprus constitutional referendum, 1985\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Northern Cyprus on 5 May 1985. The new constitution put forward by the Assembly of the Republic removed the term limits on the President, increased the number of seats in the Assembly from 40 to 60, set details on citizenship, the national flag and the national anthem, and provided for mandatory referendums on changes to the constitution. It was approved by 70.18% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "39584951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39584951", "title": "Ouster clause", "text": "Ouster clause\n\nAn ouster clause or privative clause is, in countries with common law legal systems, a clause or provision included in a piece of legislation by a legislative body to exclude judicial review of acts and decisions of the executive by stripping the courts of their supervisory judicial function. According to the doctrine of the separation of powers, one of the important functions of the judiciary is to keep the executive in check by ensuring that its acts comply with the law, including, where applicable, the constitution. Ouster clauses prevent courts from carrying out this function, but may be justified on the ground that they preserve the powers of the executive and promote the finality of its acts and decisions.\n\nOuster clauses may be divided into two species – total ouster clauses and partial ouster clauses. In the United Kingdom, the effectiveness of total ouster clauses is fairly limited. In the case of \"Anisminic Ltd. v. Foreign Compensation Committee\" (1968), the House of Lords held that ouster clauses cannot prevent the courts from examining an executive decision that, due to an error of law, is a nullity. Subsequent cases held that \"Anisminic\" had abolished the distinction between jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional errors of law. Thus, although prior to \"Anisminic\" an ouster clause was effective in preventing judicial review where only a non-jurisdictional error of law was involved, following that case ouster clauses do not prevent courts from dealing with both jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional errors of law, except in a number of limited situations.\n\nThe High Court of Australia has held that the Constitution of Australia restricts the ability of legislatures to insulate administrative tribunals from judicial review using privative clauses. Similarly, in India ouster clauses are almost always ineffective because judicial review is regarded as part of the basic structure of the Constitution that cannot be excluded. The position in Singapore is unclear. Two cases decided after \"Anisminic\" have maintained the distinction between jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional errors of law, and it is not yet known whether the courts will eventually adopt the legal position in the United Kingdom. The Chief Justice of Singapore, Chan Sek Keong, suggested in a 2010 lecture that ouster clauses may be inconsistent with Article 93 of the Constitution, which vests judicial power in the courts, and may thus be void. However, he emphasized that he was not expressing a concluded view on the matter.\n\nIn contrast with total ouster clauses, courts in the United Kingdom have affirmed the validity of partial ouster clauses that specify a time period after which aggrieved persons can no longer apply to court for a remedy.\n\nAccording to the Diceyan model of separation of powers, the executive of a state governs according to a framework of general rules in society established by the legislature, and the judiciary ensures that the executive acts within the confines of these rules through judicial review. In general, under both constitutional and administrative law, the courts possess supervisory jurisdiction over the exercise of executive power. When carrying out judicial review of administrative action, the court scrutinizes the legality and not the substantive merits of an act or decision made by a public authority under the three broad headings of illegality, irrationality and procedural impropriety. In jurisdictions which have a written constitution, the courts also assess the constitutionality of legislation, executive actions and governmental policy. Therefore, part of the role of the judiciary is to ensure that public authorities act lawfully and to serve as a check and balance on the government's power. However, the legislature may attempt to exclude the jurisdiction of the courts by the inclusion of ouster clauses in the statutes empowering public authorities to act and make decisions. These ouster clauses may be total or partial.\n\nThe following are some examples of ouster clauses:\n\nIf an ouster clause achieves its desired effect in preventing the courts from exercising judicial review, it will serve as a clear signal to the decision-maker that it may operate without fear of intervention by the courts at a later stage. However, ouster clauses have traditionally been viewed with suspicion by the courts. According to the 19th-century \"laissez-faire\" theory championed by A. V. Dicey, which Carol Harlow and Richard Rawlings termed as the \"red-light approach\" in their 1984 book \"Law and Administration\", there should be a deep-rooted suspicion of governmental power and a desire to minimize the encroachment of the state on the rights of the individuals. Therefore, the executive, which is envisaged as capable of arbitrary encroachment on the rights of individual citizens, is subjected to political control by Parliament and to legal control by the courts.\n\nOn the other end of the spectrum, there is the green-light approach derived from the utilitarian school of thought associated with legal philosophers such as Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill. The green-light approach regards state involvement as an effective means to facilitate the delivery of communitarian goals. Hence, ouster clauses are regarded as useful devices to keep a conservatively inclined judiciary at bay. One such communitarian goal achieved by ouster clauses is that it results in consistency and finality in the implementation of policy considerations by encouraging specialist bodies to act as adjudicators in certain areas of administration.\n\nTotal ouster clauses, also known as finality clauses, seek to completely exclude the supervisory jurisdiction of the courts. In the United Kingdom, before the seminal decision of \"Anisminic Ltd. v. Foreign Compensation Commission\" (1968), the law drew a distinction between situations where the public body was acting within the powers conferred on it by law but committed an error of law (a \"non-jurisdictional error of law\"), and situations where the commission of the error of law meant that the public body did not in fact have power to act (a \"jurisdictional error of law\"). In the former situation, a total ouster clause precluded the courts from exercising their supervisory function and issuing any prerogative orders to quash the erroneous action. The courts could only step in if the error of law affected the jurisdiction of the public body to act, for example, if the public body erroneously interpreted the scope of the powers conferred upon it, and thus made a decision which it had no power to make.\n\nIn \"R. v. Medical Appeal Tribunal, ex parte Gilmore\" (1957), the legality of the total ouster clause in section 36(3) of the National Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Act 1946 was doubted by the Court of Appeal of England and Wales, which issued a \"certiorari\" against the Medical Appeal Tribunal for an error of law on the face of the record. Lord Justice of Appeal Alfred Denning stated that the words \"any decision of a claim or question ... shall be final\" only excluded an appeal but not judicial review:\n\nIn \"Anisminic\", the House of Lords effectively held that any error of law made by a public body will render its decision a nullity, and an ouster clause does not oust the courts' jurisdiction in judicial review unless it clearly states so. The Foreign Compensation Commission had misinterpreted certain subsidiary legislation, with the effect that almost all claims for foreign compensation would be defeated. Their Lordships held that this misconstruction of the legislation rendered the decision \"ultra vires\", and since the Parliament could not have intended for the ouster clause to protect an \"ultra vires\" determination, judicial review was not precluded. Though \"Anisminic\" did not expressly abolish the distinction between jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional errors of law, in \"R. v. Lord President of the Privy Council, ex parte Page\" (1992) the House of Lords noted that:\n\nThus, in English law all errors of law are now to be considered as jurisdictional and \"ultra vires\" in a broad sense of the term. This implies that ouster clauses should not be effective against any error of law. The \"Anisminic\" principle was upheld by the Supreme Court in \"R. (on the application of Cart) v. Upper Tribunal\" (2011) so that the rule of law is promoted, among other reasons. Since it is practically immaterial to the victim of an error of law whether it is a jurisdictional error or otherwise, it would be manifestly unjust if judicial review was precluded when a non-jurisdictional error was egregious and obvious, but allowed for a small jurisdictional error.\n\nThough the scope of judicial review has been expanded considerably following \"Anisminic\", there are still a number of exceptions where total ouster clauses preclude courts from exercising their supervisory function in a judicial review.\n\nThe \"Anisminic\" principle applies only to public bodies exercising executive functions, over which the courts can exercise their supervisory role and have the power to decide questions of law. However, superior courts do not have any supervisory function in relation to inferior courts of law, because Parliament is deemed to have intended that such courts are to be final arbiters of questions of law. Whether the decision of a court of law is final and not subject to judicial review depends on a construction of the statute defining the jurisdiction and powers of the court. In \"Re Racal Communications Ltd.\" (1980), Lord Diplock noted that if a statute provides that the court's decision should be final and conclusive, the \"subtle distinctions formerly drawn between errors of law which go to jurisdiction and errors of law which do not\" survive. Hence, any non-jurisdictional errors of law made by a court can be only corrected by appeal if the statute provides for it.\n\nIt was held in \"ex parte Page\" that if a decision-maker is applying some \"domestic law\" or internal regulations instead of a general law of the land, then an ouster clause is effective in excluding judicial review unless the decision-maker acts outside his or her jurisdiction (that is, he or she has no power to enter into the adjudication of the dispute), abuses power, or acts in breach of natural justice. In the case, the House of Lords held that a university visitor (overseer) appointed by the founder of a charitable institution to regulate its internal affairs has exclusive jurisdiction to decide disputes arising under the domestic law of the university that has been laid down by the founder in the constitutive documents establishing the university.\n\nAnother exception can be found in the \"Cart\" judgment. Lord Dyson emphasized that \"the scope of judicial review should be no more (as well as no less) than is proportionate and necessary for the maintaining of the rule of law\". On the facts of the case, he found it was neither proportionate nor necessary for the maintenance of the rule of law to require unrestricted judicial review. By enacting the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007, Parliament had rationalized the system of administrative tribunals and had created the Upper Tribunal to hear appeals from lower tribunals, thus avoiding the ordinary courts from being overwhelmed by judicial review applications. As the system of tribunals provided ample opportunity for the correction of errors of law, this substantive policy reason precluded the need for all decisions of the Upper Tribunal to be subject to judicial review. Thus, judicial review would only be permitted from an Upper Tribunal decision if it would \"raise some important point of principle or practice\" or there was \"some other compelling reason\".\n\nAs the United Kingdom does not have a written constitution and observes the doctrine of parliamentary supremacy, the courts there could not render an ouster clause ineffective due to inconsistency with a constitutional provision, but instead excluded its application in some cases under the common law doctrine of the rule of law. However, in jurisdictions with a written constitution and hence constitutional supremacy, the courts can exclude the application of ouster clauses by pronouncing that the provision is unconstitutional and thus null and void.\n\nThe High Court of Australia has shown resistance to privative clauses, holding that the ability of legislatures to insulate administrative tribunals from judicial review by means of such clauses is restricted by the Constitution of Australia, particularly section 75(v) which states: \"In all matters ... in which a writ of Mandamus or prohibition or an injunction is sought against an officer of the Commonwealth ... the High Court shall have original jurisdiction.\" There is a further presumption in construing privative clauses that Parliament did not intend to limit access to the courts. In the High Court decision \"R. v. Hickman, ex parte Fox\" (1945), Justice Owen Dixon said:\n\nThus, a privative clause does not prevent the High Court from exercising judicial review if an authority has failed to exercise power in a \"bona fide\" manner, or if the action taken or decision made is irrelevant to the subject manner of the legislation or does not come within the power conferred on the authority. While a statutory clause will be inconsistent with section 75(v) if it purports to prevent the Court from determining whether a Commonwealth officer has engaged \"in unlawful or unauthorized conduct\" or acted \"on the basis that an invalid decision is valid and enforceable\", a clause will not be unconstitutional if it has the effect of altering the procedural or substantive law that the Court must apply to ensure that \"the impugned decision or conduct is in fact valid or lawful\".\n\nIndia embraces the basic structure doctrine, which states that the basic structure or features of the Constitution may not be amended. Judicial review has been regarded as a basic feature since the case of \"Minerva Mills v. Union of India\" (1980), the Supreme Court expressing the following view:\n\nThe Parliament's \"power to destroy is not a power to amend\", and hence the power of judicial review may not be abrogated either by the ordinary process of legislation or through the procedure of constitutional amendment. Therefore, it might be argued that ouster clauses, which are intended to make decisions by public authorities and other decision-makers final and unchallengeable before the courts, should be held void and ineffective as they deprive the aggrieved party of an avenue of seeking judicial review. However, it was held in \"A. B. C. Laminart Pvt. Ltd. v. A. P. Agencies, Salem\" (1989) that where there are two or more courts with jurisdiction over a matter, and an ouster clause merely limits the jurisdiction to one particular court, the ouster clause is valid as the aggrieved party is still left with an avenue to proceed with his or her claim:\n\nIn Singapore, the state of the law regarding the effectiveness of ouster clauses is still unclear. Whereas in the United Kingdom the courts have abolished the distinction between non-jurisdictional and jurisdictional errors of law and affirmed that in general ouster clauses are ineffective against errors of law, Singapore cases seem to adopt the traditional pre-\"Anisminic\" approach. The distinction between jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional errors of law and the effectiveness of ouster clauses against non-jurisdictional errors of law is exemplified by the cases of \"Re Application by Yee Yut Ee\" (1978), and \"Stansfield Business International Pte. Ltd. v. Minister for Manpower\" (1999).\n\nIn \"Yee Yut Ee\", the High Court neither expressly rejected nor affirmed the abolition of the distinction between jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional errors of law in \"Anisminic\" and its effect on the effectiveness of ouster clauses. Instead, the Court cited UK authorities holding that ouster clauses are ineffective when there has been an absence of jurisdiction or an excess of jurisdiction on the part of the decision-maker, which was the legal position prior to \"Anisminic\". Although the Court did refer to \"Anisminic\", it did so only to observe that the House of Lords had held the ouster clause involved in that case to be irrelevant because a purported determination by the Foreign Compensation Commission which was legally incorrect could not be considered a real determination and had no effect at all. Ultimately, the Court quashed the order made by the Industrial Arbitration Court because it contained an error of law which had caused that court to exceed its jurisdiction.\n\nIn \"Stansfield\", an employee of the plaintiff alleged that he had been dismissed from his employment without just cause, and made representations to the Minister of Manpower to be reinstated. The Minister agreed with the employee and recommended that the plaintiff provide him with monetary compensation. Even though section 14(5) of the Employment Act states that any decision of the Minister is \"final and conclusive, and shall not be challenged in any court of law\", the plaintiff challenged the decision by applying to the High Court for judicial review by way of \"certiorari\". In the course of its judgment, the Court cited the following passage from \"South East Asia Fire Bricks Sdn. Bhd. v. Non-Metallic Mineral Products Manufacturing Employees Union\" (1980):\n\nIt is presently not known whether Singapore courts will eventually adopt the current legal position in the United Kingdom. Chief Justice Chan Sek Keong observed during a 2010 lecture that what the High Court said about \"Anisminic\" in \"Stansfield\" was \"obiter dicta\" because the actual decision was \"based on a breach of natural justice and not the doctrine of error of law\". The Court had concluded that the ouster clause was ineffective in preventing judicial review of the Minister's decision, as the plaintiff had not been given a fair opportunity to present its case with knowledge of the opponent's allegations. Chief Justice Chan also advanced an academic argument that ouster clauses might be viewed as being contrary to Article 93 of the Constitution of Singapore, which vests the judicial power of Singapore in the courts, because ouster clauses strip the Supreme Court of its supervisory jurisdiction over inferior tribunals and other public authorities. If the argument that the supervisory jurisdiction of the courts cannot be ousted holds, there is no need to distinguish between jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional errors of law. However, he made it clear that he was not expressing an opinion on the issue.\n\nFollowing the Indian example, it might be argued that judicial review is a basic feature of the Constitution and cannot be removed through the use of ouster clauses. However, the basic features doctrine was rejected by the High Court in \"Teo Soh Lung v. Minister for Home Affairs\" (1989). On appeal, the Court of Appeal found it unnecessary to rule on whether the position taken by the High Court is correct or not.\n\nUnlike a total ouster clause which seeks to preclude judicial review entirely, a partial ouster clause specifies a restricted period of time after which no remedy will be available. However, if the issue of whether a public authority has acted in bad faith arises, the authority's act or decision is not immune to judicial review notwithstanding the lapse of time.\n\nIn \"Smith v. East Elloe Rural District Council\" (1956), the House of Lords concluded by a majority that it could not impugn a partial ouster clause because, according to Viscount Simonds, \"plain words must be given their plain meaning\", regardless of an allegation of fraud on the part of the public authority. The consequences of such a narrow approach were recognized in the dissenting judgement by Lord Reid, in which he doubted whether an ouster clause could protect an order that had been obtained by corrupt or fraudulent means from being questioned in court. He wrote:\n\nThe decision in \"Anisminic\", which held that total ouster clauses do not safeguard decisions affected by errors of law from judicial review, poses a challenge to the judgment in \"Smith\", but the latter was affirmed by the Court of Appeal of England and Wales in \"R. v. Secretary of State for the Environment, ex parte Ostler\" (1976). The Court held that a distinction could be drawn between a total ouster clause and a partial ouster such as the one in question, which gave the applicants six weeks to challenge the decision. Lord Denning, the Master of the Rolls, explained that the rationale for upholding time limit clauses is that it is in the public interest to promote certainty of the executive's actions. If the courts were to allow plaintiffs to come to them for remedies long after the time limit for doing so has expired, the acts or decisions of authorities would be held up or delayed. As Lord Justice of Appeal Michael Mann explained in \"R. v. Cornwall County Council, ex parte Huntington\" (1992):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1185519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1185519", "title": "Price controls", "text": "Price controls\n\nPrice controls are governmental restrictions on the prices that can be charged for goods and services in a market. The intent behind implementing such controls can stem from the desire to maintain affordability of goods even during shortages, and to slow inflation, or, alternatively, to ensure a minimum income for providers of certain goods or a minimum wage. There are two primary forms of price control, a price ceiling, the maximum price that can be charged, and a price floor, the minimum price that can be charged.\n\nHistorically, price controls have often been imposed as part of a larger incomes policy package also employing wage controls and other regulatory elements.\n\nAlthough price controls are sometimes used by governments, economists usually agree that price controls don't accomplish what they are intended to do and are generally to be avoided. For example, nearly three-quarters of economists surveyed disagreed with the statement, \"Wage-price controls are a useful policy option in the control of inflation.\"\n\nThe Roman Emperor Diocletian tried to set maximum prices for all commodities in the late 3rd century AD but with little success.\n\nIn early 14th century, the Delhi Sultanate ruler Alauddin Khalji instituted several market reforms, which included price-fixing for a wide range of goods, including grains, cloth, slaves and animals. However, a few months after his death, these measures were revoked by his son Qutbuddin Mubarak Shah.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, the Law of the Maximum set price limits on the sale of food and other staples.\n\nGovernments in planned economies typically control prices on most or all goods but have not sustained high economic performance and have been almost entirely replaced by mixed economies.\n\nPrice controls have also been used in modern times in less-planned economies, such as rent control.\n\nDuring World War I, the United States Food Administration enforced price controls on food. Price controls were also imposed in the US and Nazi Germany during World War II.\n\nWage controls have been tried in many countries to reduce inflation, seldom successfully. Modern neoclassical economic theory supports the alternative remedy of reducing the money supply and proposes that monetary inflation is caused by too much money creation by the central bank. \n\nThe National Board for Prices and Incomes was created by the government of Harold Wilson in 1965 in an attempt to solve the problem of inflation in the British economy by managing wages and prices. The Prices and Incomes Act 1966 c. 33 affected UK labour law, regarding wage levels and price policies. It allowed the government to begin a process to scrutinise rising levels of wages (then around 8% per year) by initiating reports and inquiries and ultimately giving orders for a standstill. The objective was to control inflation. It proved unpopular after the 1960s.\n\nIn the United States, price controls have been enacted several times: During World War I and World War II, and by President Nixon. The first time price controls were enacted nationally was in 1906 as a part of the Hepburn Act. In addition, States have sometimes chosen to implement their own control policies.\n\nIn the 1860s, several midwestern states of the United States, namely Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, and Illinois, enacted a series of laws called the Granger Laws, primarily to regulate rising fare prices of railroad and grain elevator companies.\n\nCalifornia controls the prices of electricity within the state, which conservative economist Thomas Sowell blames for the occasional electricity shortages the state experiences. Sowell said in 2001, \"Since the utility companies have been paying more for electricity than they were allowed to charge their customers, they were operating in the red and the financial markets are downgrading their bonds.\" California's price-setting board agreed to raise rates but not as much as the companies were paying on the wholesale market for their electricity. Economist Lawrence Makovich contended, \"We've already seen in California that price caps on retail rates increased demand and made the shortage worse and price caps also forced the largest utility, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, into bankruptcy in four months.\" While some charged that electricity providers had in past years charged above-market rates, in 2002 the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" reported that before the blackouts, many energy providers left the state because they could make a greater profit in other Western states. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission stepped in and set price caps for each megawatt of power bought after lifting the caps to avoid rolling blackouts six months previously.\n\nThe state of Hawaii briefly introduced a cap on the wholesale price of gasoline (the Gas Cap Law) in an effort to fight \"price gouging\" in that state in 2005. Because it was widely seen as too soft and ineffective, it was repealed shortly thereafter.\n\nThe primary criticism leveled against price controls is that by keeping prices artificially low, demand is increased to the point where supply can not keep up, leading to shortages in the price-controlled product. For example, Lactantius wrote that Diocletian \"by various taxes he had made all things exceedingly expensive, attempted by a law to limit their prices. Then much blood [of merchants] was shed for trifles, men were afraid to offer anything for sale, and the scarcity became more excessive and grievous than ever. Until, in the end, the [price limit] law, after having proved destructive to many people, was from mere necessity abolished.\" As with Diocletian's Edict on Maximum Prices, shortages lead to black markets where prices for the same good exceed those of an uncontrolled market. Furthermore, once controls are removed, prices will immediately increase, which can temporarily shock the economic system.\n\nA classic example of how price controls cause shortages was during the Arab oil embargo between October 19, 1973 and March 17, 1974. Long lines of cars and trucks quickly appeared at retail gas stations in the U.S. and some stations closed because of a shortage of fuel at the low price set by the U.S. Cost of Living Council. The fixed price was below what the market would otherwise bear and, as a result, the inventory disappeared. It made no difference whether prices were voluntarily or involuntarily posted below the market clearing price. Scarcity resulted in either case. Price controls fail to achieve their proximate aim, which is to reduce prices paid by retail consumers, but such controls do manage to reduce supply.\n\nNobel prize winner Milton Friedman said \"We economists don't know much, but we do know how to create a shortage. If you want to create a shortage of tomatoes, for example, just pass a law that retailers can't sell tomatoes for more than two cents per pound. Instantly you'll have a tomato shortage. It's the same with oil or gas.\"\n\nU.S. President Richard Nixon's Secretary of the Treasury, George Shultz, enacting Nixon's \"New Economic Policy,\" lifted price controls that had begun in 1971 (part of the Nixon Shock). This lifting of price controls resulted in a rapid increase in prices. Price freezes were re-established five months later. Stagflation was eventually ended in the United States when the Federal Reserve under chairman Paul Volcker raised interest rates to unusually high levels. This successfully ended high inflation but caused a recession that ended in the early 1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "47078809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47078809", "title": "Proposed British Bill of Rights", "text": "Proposed British Bill of Rights\n\nThe Proposed British Bill of Rights is a proposal of the Conservative Government, included in their 2015 election manifesto, to replace the Human Rights Act 1998 with a new piece of primary legislation. \n\nPrior to the 2010 general election, Conservative party leader David Cameron proposed replacing the Human Rights Act with a new \"British Bill of Rights\". After forming a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, these plans were shelved and reinstated only after the Conservative party won an overall majority in the 2015 general election. Prime Minister David Cameron then vowed to put right what he termed the \"complete mess\" of Britain's human rights laws, on the 800th anniversary of the passage of the Magna Carta by the Kingdom of England, one of the predecessor states to the United Kingdom. Tensions have arisen between those on the political right in the UK, and the European Court of Human Rights, over issues such as prisoner voting.\n\nSpecific details on the specific legislation at this point are unknown, due to sparse information being published as of yet, however, some proposed differences between current legislation and a \"British Bill of Rights\", have already been made apparent, due to the way in which the Westminster system operates.\n\nCurrently, in order to change the text of the European Convention on Human Rights, there must be broad to unanimous agreement between member states of the Council of Europe. With a \"British Bill of Rights\", however, rights would be set forth by the UK parliament or by another body directly on its behalf, operating under the principle of parliamentary sovereignty. The ability to alter what constitutes a \"right\" would thus ultimately rest with the current parliament of the time.\n\nAs a result of this difference, the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights would no longer be directly enforceable before domestic courts. However, the UK would remain bound under international law by the Convention.\n\nMoreover, the Convention provides that its provisions are minimum standards, that a member party can enact laws granting rights. Thus, a British Bill of Rights must reflect all the provisions of the ECHR. Ultimately, any person who had exhausted domestic remedy could refer their case to the European Court which has obtained before and since the enactment of the HRA 1998. \n\nThe proposals for the Bill of Rights appear not to include denunciation of the ECHR, only repeal of the HRA 1998 which incorporated c1-12 and 14 of the ECHR. This would mean that, taking the previous paragraph into account, people in the UK would access their basic ECHR rights via the proposed Bill and the courts' interpretation of the Bill and its relationship to the ECHR. Denunciation would not free the UK from the provisions of the ECHR in that any matter which occurred prior to the date of denunciation would remain within the jurisdiction of the Court of the ECHR as provided by the Convention.\n\n"}
{"id": "58399810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58399810", "title": "Proposition 103", "text": "Proposition 103\n\nCalifornia voters passed Proposition 103 on November 8, 1988. It in effect made insurance companies require \"prior approval\" from the California Department of Insurance before implementing property and casualty insurance rates. It passed with 51% of the vote.\n\nThe measure expanded the Department's responsibility for enforcement to include: property insurance, automobile insurance, life insurance and other types of casualty coverage. Proposition 103 made the California Insurance Commissioner an elected position (previously being a governor-appointed position).\n\nThe ballot measure required insurers \"roll back\" their rates 20 percent. Proposition 103 devised a process enabling consumer participation in the setting of insurance rates, and allowed consumer \"intervenors\" witness fees and expenses in some cases.\n\nInsurance types regulated by Proposition 103 are: Personal automobile, dwelling fire, earthquake, homeowners, inland marine, and umbrella; Commercial aircraft, automobile, boiler and machinery, burglary and theft, business owners, earthquake, farm owners, some fidelity, fire, glass, inland marine, medical malpractice, miscellaneous, multi-peril, other liability, professional liability, special multi-peril, umbrella, and coverage under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.\n\nAccording to the California Insurance Commissioner, Proposition 103 \"has saved consumers billions\" since being implemented, specifically a $4.29 billion per year dividend. It also claims \"alifornians spent 0.3% less on auto insurance in 2010 than they spent in 1989, while the nation spent 43.3% more\".\n\nInvestigatory and regulatory hearings are open to intervenors. Members of the public or organizations can observe or may attend the hearing and request to be heard, submit written comments or present live testimony. Attorney fees can be reimbursed when written comments are submitted that \"make a substantial contribution within the time frame in the notice\".\n"}
{"id": "31576812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31576812", "title": "Public Affairs Quarterly", "text": "Public Affairs Quarterly\n\nPublic Affairs Quarterly is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers current issues in social and political philosophy. The current editor is David Boonin (University of Colorado Boulder).\n"}
{"id": "3008581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3008581", "title": "Reality Check Network", "text": "Reality Check Network\n\nReality Check Network was a diskmag warez magazine that existed from November 18, 1995 to Summer 1997 with two breaks in Spring 1996 and Winter 1996/1997.\n\nWith origins as a promotional magazine for the Legacy group, it evolved into a general magazine describing various aspects of the warez scene. It contained interviews with key group leaders and described gossip and fights in the warez world. They would list each period's various releases, FTP and BBS courier MB totals, and up-to-date NFO files for each group. This was during a period when private Internet accounts were becoming widespread in the United States and increasingly in Europe and the Internet-based warez scene was expanding rapidly. They also had an open IRC channel #rcn where people would gossip about the activities of various groups under the watch of the magazine's chief editor Rebel Chicken.\n\nIts front-end and graphical design were considered excellent and based on efficient assembly code. The magazine also sometimes embedded small games like space shooters into the code. As the magazine became more sophisticated in its graphics, its size in kilobytes grew, but until close to its end fit onto a single floppy disk.\n\nIt was controversial for its frank discussion of government busts and its indirect involvement in various feuds. Although it was frequently criticized for this and other various reasons, most groups interacted with it because of its popularity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25488", "title": "Rebuttal", "text": "Rebuttal\n\nIn law, rebuttal is a form of evidence that is presented to contradict or nullify other evidence that has been presented by an adverse party. By analogy the same term is used in politics and public affairs to refer to the informal process by which statements, designed to refute or negate specific arguments put forward by opponents, are deployed in the media.\n\nIn law, special rules apply to rebuttal; rebuttal evidence or rebuttal witnesses must be confined solely to the subject matter of the evidence rebutted. New evidence on other subjects may not be brought in rebuttal. However, rebuttal is one of the few vehicles whereby a party may introduce surprise evidence or witnesses. The basic process is as follows: both sides of a controversy are obliged to declare in advance of trial what witnesses they plan to call, and what each witness is expected to testify to. When either a plaintiff (or prosecutor) or defendant brings direct evidence or testimony which was not anticipated, the other side may be granted a specific opportunity to rebut it. In rebuttal, the rebutting party may generally bring witnesses and evidence which were never before declared, so long as they serve to rebut the prior evidence.\n"}
{"id": "1311669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1311669", "title": "Regulation of science", "text": "Regulation of science\n\nThe regulation of science refers to use of law, or other ruling, by academic or governmental bodies to allow or restrict science from performing certain practices, or researching certain scientific areas. It is a bioethical issue related to other practices such as abortion and euthanasia; and areas of research such as stem-cell research and cloning synthetic biology.\n\nScience could be regulated by legislation if seen as harmful (such as euthanasia), immoral (such as abortion), or dangerous. For these reasons it is closely related to religion, culture and society.\n\nUnjust events such as the St. Louis tragedy or the Tuskegee syphilis experiment have prompted regulations in biomedical research. Over the years, regulations have extended to animal welfare and research misconduct. The federal government also monitors the production and sale of the results of biomedical research such as drugs and biopharmaceuticals. The FDA and the Department of Health and Human Services oversee the implementation of these regulations.\n\nThe Dickey–Wicker Amendment prohibits the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) from using appropriated funds for the creation of human embryos for research purposes or for research in which human embryos are destroyed.\n\nThe issue of experimentation on human subjects gained prominence after World War II and the revelation of atrocities committed in the name of science. In the United States, the 1962 Kefauver-Harris amendments to the FDA included for the first time a requirement for informed consent of participants. In 1966, a policy statement by the U.S Surgeon General required that all human subject research go through independent prior review. The National Research Act of 1974 institutionalized this review process by requiring that research centers establish Institutional Review Boards (IRBs).\n\nUniversities, hospitals, and other research institutions set up these IRBs to review all the research done at the institution. These boards, generally composed of both scientific peers from the institution and lay persons, are tasked with assessing the risks and benefits associated with the use of human subjects, in addition to the adequacy of the protection and consent of the participants. The IRBs can approve research proposals, make modifications, or disapprove them entirely. Research projects cannot receive federal funding without approval from an IRB. Noncompliance can also induce sanctions from the institution, such as revoked access to facilities and subjects, suspension, and dismissal.\n\nThe National Research Act of 1974 also set up the National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research, which produced the Belmont Report (Report on Ethical Principles and Guidelines for the Protection of Human Subjects of Research) in 1979. This report established a moral framework for the regulation of research involving human subjects.\n\nThe Animal Welfare Act of 1966 set standards of treatment of animals in research experiments. It requires all research facilities to register with the USDA and allows officials to conduct unannounced facility inspections. The Health Research Extension Act of 1985 requires that all research facilities using animals establish Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees (IACUCs) to evaluate twice a year the institutions' activities involving animals. The IACUCs report to the NIH Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare annually.\n\nThe Health Research Extension Act of 1985 led to the establishment of the Office of Research Integrity (ORI) within the Department of Health and Human Services. ORI is responsible for reviewing research misconduct allegations and developing policies to improve the responsible conduct of research.\n\nTwo divisions of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are in charge of monitoring the production and sale of drugs. The Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) is responsible for reviewing new drug applications and requires clinical trials as proof of effectiveness. The Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) is responsible for implementing federal regulations of biopharmaceuticals such as vaccines, blood components, gene therapies, etc. They approve new drugs on the basis of safety and effectiveness, and issue licenses, which allow companies to market their products.\n\nNuclear energy is historically linked to issues of national security. From 1942 to 1946, nuclear research was controlled by the military, which conducted research in secrecy. In 1946, the Atomic Energy Act handed over control to civilians, although the government retained a tight monopoly over nuclear energy. The 1954 amendment to this act enabled private industry to pursue non-military applications of nuclear research.\n\nThe Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 established the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), in charge of licensing and safety. The Chernobyl and Fukushima accidents raised concerns and public apprehension over the safety of nuclear power. As a result, the NRC strengthened safety regulations for nuclear power plants.\n\nScience education is a controversial subject in the United States. Several states banned the teaching of evolution in the 20th century, most notably the state of Tennessee with the Butler Act of 1925. It was followed by the Scopes Trial, in which the state of Tennessee accused Scopes, a high school teacher, of teaching evolution. Although he was found guilty and fined, the trial showed declining public support for Fundamentalists. The Scopes Trial had an important impact in the larger creation versus evolution debate. In the following decades, the term \"evolution\" was omitted in many biology textbooks, even when the text discusses it. These bans on teaching evolution were overturned by a Supreme Court ruling in Epperson v. Arkansas in 1968. Since 2001, there has been a resurgence of anti-evolution bills, one of which, the Louisiana Science Education Act, was passed. This Act allows public schools to use supplementary material that is critical of the scientific theories such as evolution and global warming in science classrooms.\n\nThe U.S. government and state legislatures have also enacted regulations promoting science education. The National Defense Education Act of 1958 was passed soon after the Soviet Union's launch of Sputnik 1 and linked education with issues of national security. This law provided funding for scholarships and science programs. In 2013, 26 state governments worked together to produce the Next Generation Science Standards, which sets expectations for K–12 science education.\n\nThe Nuremberg Code was written as part of the trials of Nazi doctors after World War II. It introduced ten ethical principles regarding human experimentation, the first of which requires informed consent from human subjects. It also states that experimentation on humans must be necessary to society, be preceded by studies on animals, and protect subjects from injury, disability and death. The Nuremberg Code was very influential in shaping regulations of scientific research across the world. For example, the Helsinki Declaration of 1964 was developed by the World Medical Association and establishes ethical principles for the medical community.\n\n"}
{"id": "146798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146798", "title": "Reprisal", "text": "Reprisal\n\nA reprisal is a limited and deliberate violation of international law to punish another sovereign state that has already broken them. Reprisals in the laws of war are extremely limited, as they commonly breach the rights of non-combatants, an action outlawed by the Geneva Conventions. It is not to be confused with retorsions, as these constitute unfriendly acts generally permitted by international law.\n\nThe word came from French, where it originally meant \"act of taking back\", for example, raiding back the equivalent of cattle lost to an enemy raid.\n\nReprisals refer to acts which are illegal if taken alone, but become legal when adopted by one state in retaliation for the commission of an earlier illegal act by another state. Counter-reprisals are generally not allowed.\n\nAn example of reprisal is the Naulila dispute between Portugal and Germany in October 1914. After three Germans were mistakenly killed in Naulila on the border of the then-Portuguese colony of Angola (in a manner that did not violate international law), Germany carried out a military raid on Naulila, destroying property in retaliation. A claim for compensation was brought by Portugal. The tribunal emphasized that before reprisals could be legally undertaken, a number of conditions had to be satisfied:\nThe German claim that it had acted lawfully was rejected on all three grounds.\n\nAfter 1945, as a result of the general prohibition on use of force imposed by Article 2(4) of the United Nations Charter, armed reprisals in time of peace are no longer legal, but the possibility remains of non-armed reprisals (also known as countermeasures) as well as belligerent reprisals during hostilities when the law of international armed conflict (LOIAC) is violated.\n\nIn the case of belligerent reprisals, apart from the three factors in the Naulila case, a warning must also be issued beforehand; once the other party has stopped violation of LOIAC, belligerent reprisals must also be terminated; and the decision to engage in belligerent reprisals must be taken by a competent authority. All four Geneva Conventions prohibit reprisals against, respectively, battlefield casualties, shipwreck survivors, prisoners of war, and protected persons (civilian or military), as well as certain buildings and property. An additional 1977 protocol extends this to cover historic monuments, works of art, and places of worship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26341836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26341836", "title": "Road Traffic Act 1934", "text": "Road Traffic Act 1934\n\nThe Road Traffic Act 1934 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom introduced by the Minister of Transport, Leslie Hore-Belisha. The Act was made in a year in which there had been a record numbers of road casualties.\n\nThe Locomotive Acts of the late 1800s had placed heavy restrictions of speeds of \"locomotives\". Under pressure from an emerging motor industry and growing enthusiasm for motor cars the Locomotives on Highways Act 1896 had reduced the restrictions and increased speed limits. Speed limits were again raised by the Motor Car Act 1903 which also introduced requirements for registration of vehicles and for driving licenses as well as new safety legislation. The Road Traffic Act 1930 had controversially removed all speed limits for motorcars in a year with record 7,305 road fatalities since which the levels of fatalities had increased to 7,343 deaths and 231,603 injuries. Half the deaths were of pedestrians, and of these three-quarters occurred in built-up areas. Hore-Belisha spoke of this as \"mass murder\" and he was nearly killed shortly after his appointment during a public-relations exercise to demonstrate how to use the new \"uncontrolled crossings\" when a car sped through the crossing without stopping. The Pedestrian's Association had been set up in 1929 to advocate on behalf of pedestrians with the Automobile Association and Royal Automobile Club resisting further legislation. The Salter Report which had been commissioned by the government was published in 1933 and recommended changes to the funding of both road and rail transport.\n\nThe Act:\n\nThe Belisha beacon, named after the Transport Minister, was introduced to clearly identify crossings. The 30 mph speed limit in urban areas remains the most common speed limit (as of 2015).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "572687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=572687", "title": "Search and seizure", "text": "Search and seizure\n\nSearch and Seizure is a procedure used in many civil law and common law legal systems by which police or other authorities and their agents, who, suspecting that a crime has been committed, commence a search of a person's property and confiscate any relevant evidence found in connection to the crime.\nSome countries have certain provisions in their constitutions that provide the public with the right to be free from \"unreasonable searches and seizures\". This right is generally based on the premise that everyone is entitled to a reasonable right to privacy.\n\nThough specific interpretation may vary, this right can often require law enforcement to obtain a search warrant or consent of the owner before engaging in any form of search and seizure. In cases where evidence is seized in a search, that evidence might be rejected by court procedures, such as with a motion to suppress the evidence under the exclusionary rule.\n\nIn Italy protection from search and seizure is enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution, which states:\n\n\"The home is inviolable.\nHome inspections, searches, or seizures shall not be admissible save in the cases and manners complying with measures to safeguard personal liberty. Controls and inspections for reason of public health and safety, or for economic and fiscal purposes, shall be regulated by appropriate laws.\"\n\nThe right to be free from unreasonable search and seizure is well recognised by the international human rights community. Section 21 of the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990 (NZBoRA 1990) incorporates this right into New Zealand law, stating that: \"Everyone has the right to be secure against unreasonable search or seizure, whether of the person, property, or correspondence or otherwise.\"\n\nWhile the NZBORA 1990 establishes the overall right to be free from unreasonable search and seizure the Search and Surveillance Act 2012 provides the statutory framework for the practical application of the law in this area in New Zealand.\n\nHistorically, English common law made use of a number of different types of legal writs to effect seizures for various reasons. For example, a writ of \"arrestandis bonis ne dissipentur\" provided for the seizure of goods when it was found likely they would not be properly cared for during a court case to settle ownership. A writ of \"attachiamenta bonorum\" allowed for the seizure of personal property to recover a debt.\n\nThe Fourth Amendment of the United States Constitution states that:\nThe text of the amendment is brief, and most of the law determining what constitutes an unlawful search and seizure is found in court rulings. The brief definitions of the terms \"search\" and \"seizure\" was concisely summarized in \"United States v. Jacobsen\", which said that the Fourth Amendment:\nThe general rule under the United States Constitution is that a valid warrant is required for a search. There are, however, several exceptions to this rule, based on the language of the fourth amendment that the people are to be \"secure ... against unreasonable searches and seizures\".\n\nFor instance, the owner of the property in question may consent to the search. The consent must be voluntary, but there is no clear test to determine whether or not it is; rather, a court will consider the \"totality of the circumstances\" in assessing whether consent was voluntary. Police officers are \"not\" technically required to advise a suspect that he may refuse, however this policy depends on the specific rules of the department. There are also some circumstances in which a third party who has equal control, i.e. common authority, over the property may consent to a search. Another example of unreasonable search and seizure is in the court case Mapp V. Ohio.\n\nWhen an individual does not possess a \"reasonable expectation of privacy\" that society is willing to acknowledge in a particular piece of property, any interference by the government with regard to that property is not considered a search for Fourth Amendment purposes, and a warrant is never required. For example, courts have found that a person does not possess a reasonable expectation of privacy in information transferred to a third party, such as writing on the outside of an envelope sent through the mail or left for pick-up in an area where others might view it. While that does not mean that the person has no reasonable expectation of privacy in the contents of that envelope, the Court has held that one does not possess a reasonable expectation of privacy that society is willing to acknowledge in the contents of garbage left outside the curtilage of a home.\nThere is also a lowered expectation of privacy inside of motor vehicles. Although, it has also been held that, \"The word 'automobile' is not a talisman in whose presence the Fourth Amendment fades away and disappears.” Coolidge v. New Hampshire \n\nCourts have also established an \"exigent circumstances\" exception to the warrant requirement. \"Exigent circumstances\" simply means that the officers must act quickly. Typically, this is because police have a reasonable belief that evidence is in imminent danger of being removed or destroyed, but there is still a probable cause requirement. Exigent circumstances may also exist where there is a continuing danger, or where officers have a reasonable belief that people in need of assistance are present. This includes when the police are in 'hot pursuit of a fleeing felon.' In this circumstance, so long as there is probable cause, police may follow the suspect into a residence and seize any evidence in plain view.\n\nCertain limited searches are also allowed during an investigatory stop or incident to an arrest. These searches may be referenced as refined searches.\n\nWhile the interpretations of the U.S. Supreme Court are binding on all federal courts interpreting the U.S. Constitution, there is some variance in the specifics from state to state, for two reasons. First, if an issue has not been decided by the U.S. Supreme Court, then a lower court makes a ruling of \"first impression\" on the issue, and sometimes two different lower courts will reach different interpretations. Second, virtually all state constitutions also contain provisions regarding search and seizure. Those provisions cannot reduce the protections offered by the U.S. Constitution, but they can provide additional protections such that a search deemed \"reasonable\" under the U.S. Constitution might nonetheless be unreasonable under the law of a particular state.\n\nThere are several areas of analysis that courts use to determine whether a search has encroached upon constitutional protections. Only those searches that meet with certainty each of the minimal measured requirements of the following four doctrines are likely to stand unchallenged in court. Those qualifying doctrines are reasonableness, probable cause\n, judicial authority, and particularity. While police judgment just before or during the course of a search or arrest usually provides the factors that determine reasonableness, matters of probable cause, judicial authority, and particularity requirements are commonly met through police procedures that are overseen by a court judge or magistrate prior to any search or arrest being conducted. Probable cause requires an acceptable degree of justified suspicion. Particularity requirements are spelled out in the constitution text itself. Law enforcement compliance with those requirements is scrutinized prior to the issuance of a warrant being granted or denied by an officiating judicial authority.\n\nThe primary remedy in illegal search cases is known as the \"exclusionary rule\". This means that any evidence obtained through an illegal search is excluded and cannot be used against the defendant at his or her trial. There are some narrow exceptions to this rule. For instance, if police officers acted in good faith—perhaps pursuant to a warrant that turned out to be invalid, but that the officers had believed valid at the time of the search—evidence may be admitted.\n\nIn corporate and administrative law, there has been an evolution of Supreme Court interpretation in favor of stronger government in regards to investigatory power. In \"Federal Trade Commission v. American Tobacco Co.\", the Supreme Court ruled that the FTC, while having been granted a broad subpoena power, did not have the right to a general \"fishing expedition\" into the private papers, to search both relevant and irrelevant, hoping that something would come up. Justice Holmes ruled that this would go against \"the spirit and the letter\" of the Fourth Amendment.\n\nIn the 1946 case of \"Oklahoma Press Pub. Co. v. Walling\", there was a distinction made between a \"figurative or constructive search\" and an actual search and seizure. The court held that constructive searches are limited by the Fourth Amendment, where actual search and seizure requires a warrant based on “probable cause”. In the case of a constructive search where the records and papers sought are of corporate character, the court held that the Fourth Amendment does not apply, since corporations are not entitled to all the constitutional protections created in order to protect the rights of private individuals.\n\n\nUS specific:\n"}
{"id": "9680641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9680641", "title": "Seneschal of Anjou", "text": "Seneschal of Anjou\n\nA seneschal (\"siniscallus\", Vulgar or old Frankish Latin, also \"dapifer\") was an officer of an aristocratic household assigned to manage the domestic affairs of the lord. During the course of the twelfth century, the seneschalship also became an office of military command.\n\nThe seneschal came also to act as a business manager, coordinating between the receivers of various landholdings and the chamber, camera or treasury, and the chancellory or chapel. When the counts of Anjou began acquiring large territorial holdings outside of their traditional patrimony, their rule became more and more absentee. With the rule of Henry II of England, the office of seneschal had become almost vice-regal. The seneschals of Anjou, like those appointed in Normandy, Poitou, and Gascony had custody of demesne fortresses, the regional treasuries, and presidency of the highest court of regional custom. Although there is no direct evidence that an Exchequer court of Anjou existed, traces of a Poitevin Exchequer and detailed records of the Gascon Exchequers during the reign of Henry III of England would indicate that there most likely was a functioning exchequer, probably at Chinon which served as the central treasury and chief stronghold of Anjou, Maine, and Touraine.\n\n\nthe office continued down the male line of the Craon family\n\n"}
{"id": "3289016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3289016", "title": "Supreme Court Reports (Canada)", "text": "Supreme Court Reports (Canada)\n\nThe Supreme Court Reports (S.C.R.) is the official reporter of the Supreme Court of Canada. Since the creation of the Supreme Court, all of its decisions have been published in the Reports, in both English and French. The first volume was published in 1877 containing the first case ever heard by the Supreme Court, \"Kelly v. Sullivan\". \n\nInitially, the reports were identified from 1 to 64, but from 1923 they have been identified by their year of publication. By 1975 the reporter started putting out two volumes a year, which increased to between 3 and 4 by 1990. Volumes from 1983 and later are also available in electronic format, hosted by LexUM at the Université de Montréal.\n\n"}
{"id": "37312513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37312513", "title": "Trustee of FC Jones &amp; Son v Jones", "text": "Trustee of FC Jones &amp; Son v Jones\n\nMr Jones transferred £11,700 in cheques from his potato growing firm’s bank account to Mrs Jones. The firm became insolvent, which vested the account retrospectively into the trustee in bankruptcy. Mrs Jones bought potato futures, and earned £50,760. This was put into an account with Raphael & Sons plc. The Official Receiver claimed that under the Bankruptcy Act 1914 sections 37 and 38, the money belonged to it. Mrs Jones claimed it was hers, but the sum was paid into court.\n\nMillett LJ held the trustee in bankruptcy could recover everything. From the date of the act of bankruptcy, all money in the bankrupts’ joint accounts belonged to the trustee in bankruptcy. Mr Jones had no title to the money paid out, and could therefore not pass title to Mrs Jones. Equity had no role. The deposit of the trustee’s money under the contract’s terms with the commodity broker belonged to the trustee.\n\nSignificantly in Jones it was indicated that a fiduciary relationship was no longer an exclusive precondition for the use of equitable tracing, the fiduciary character of the defendant's receipt was expressly negatived.\n\n"}
{"id": "58325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58325", "title": "Vigilante", "text": "Vigilante\n\nA vigilante (, ; ; , ) is a civilian or organization acting in a law enforcement capacity (or in the pursuit of self-perceived justice) without legal authority.\n\n\"Vigilante justice\" is often rationalized by the concept that proper legal forms of criminal punishment are either nonexistent, insufficient, or inefficient. Vigilantes normally see the government as ineffective in enforcing the law; such individuals often claim to justify their actions as a fulfillment of the wishes of the community.\n\nPersons alleged to be escaping the law or above the law are sometimes the victims of vigilantism.\n\nVigilante conduct involves varied degrees of violence. Vigilantes could assault targets verbally and/or physically, damage and/or vandalize property, or even murder individuals.\n\nIn a number of cases, vigilantism has involved targets with mistaken identities.\n\nVigilantism and the vigilante ethos existed long before the word \"vigilante\" was introduced into the English language. There are conceptual and psychological parallels between the Dark Age and medieval aristocratic custom of private war or vendetta and the modern vigilante philosophy.\n\nElements of the concept of vigilantism can be found in the Biblical account in Genesis 34 of the abduction and rape (or, by some interpretations, seduction) of Dinah, the daughter of Jacob, in the Canaanite city of Shechem by the eponymous son of the ruler, and the violent reaction of her brothers Simeon and Levi, who slew all of the males of the city in revenge, rescued their sister and plundered Shechem. When Jacob protested that their actions might bring trouble upon him and his family, the brothers replied \"Should he [i.e., Shechem] treat our sister as a harlot?\"\n\nSimilarly, in , Absalom kills Amnon after King David, their father, fails to punish Amnon for raping Tamar, their sister.\n\nRecourse to personal vengeance and dueling was considered a class privilege of the sword-bearing aristocracy before the formation of the modern centralized liberal-bureaucratic nation-state (see Marc Bloch, trans. L. A. Manyon, \"Feudal Society\", Vol. I, 1965, p. 127). In addition, sociologists have posited a complex legal and ethical interrelationship between vigilante acts and rebellion and tyrannicide.\n\nIn the Western literary and cultural tradition, characteristics of \"vigilantism\" have often been vested in folkloric heroes and legendary outlaws (e.g., Robin Hood). Vigilantism in literature, folklore and legend is connected to the fundamental issues of dissatisfied morality, injustice, the failures of authority and the ethical adequacy of legitimate governance.\n\nDuring medieval times, punishment of felons was sometimes exercised by such secret societies as the courts of the Vehm (cf. the medieval Sardinian \"Gamurra\" later become \"Barracelli\", the Sicilian Vendicatori and the Beati Paoli), a type of early vigilante organization, which became extremely powerful in Westphalian Germany during the 15th century.\n\nFormally-defined vigilantism arose in the early American colonies.\n\n\nIn India, vigilante refers to when a group metes out extralegal punishment to alleged lawbreakers. Vigilantism is also referred to as \"mob justice\". It is usually caused by perception of corruption and delays in the judicial system.\n\nAs boom-towns, or mining towns in California because of the Gold Rush, started appearing towards the 1850s, vigilantes started taking justice into their own hands because these towns did not have any established forms of government. These people would assault accused thieves, rapists and murderers. When they assaulted these thieves, they would steal their gold and give it to the accuser. Other than reports and newspapers, there are not many records of vigilantes. Few names or groups are known.\n\nLater in the United States, vigilante groups arose in poorly governed frontier areas where criminals preyed upon the citizenry with impunity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "230310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230310", "title": "XDCC", "text": "XDCC\n\nXDCC (Xabi DCC or eXtended DCC) is a computer file sharing method which uses the Internet Relay Chat (IRC) network as a host service.\n\nLimitations in the original DCC protocol prevented the transfers of very large files, or groups of files. XDCC was developed to allow batching of files together, and requesting/sending those files to others.\n\nXDCC was initially a script written in 1994 for ircII by Xabi. This script extends the ircII DCC command. Now XDCC refers to IRC bots running file sharing programs in general. XDCC bots serve one or more usually large files for download using the DCC protocol. Though XDCC is commonly employed in distributing illegal content, such as warez releases of software, music, and movies, it can also be used in legal ways.\n\nUnlike peer-to-peer transfers, XDCC servers are often hosted on connections with very high upstream bandwidth, sometimes in excess of 100 Mbit. Often FTP servers are also running on the XDCC servers to facilitate uploading of materials to them. Many XDCC servers run on security compromised computers.\n\nSince browser-based IRC scripts are not compatible with the DCC protocol, users need to install a program such as mIRC on their computer. In order to receive files, the software has to be properly configured, otherwise downloads will be rejected by the software.\n\nTo use XDCC, one can send a private message (query) or send a CTCP command to a bot, using an IRC client. The user can ask a bot what files it has by private messaging \"xdcc list\" to the bot. However, this feature is often disabled as to not attract too much attention. When a user wants to download a packet or file from a bot, the user would type something such as \"xdcc send #<pack number>\" to the bot. The bot will either start sending the user the packet or the bot will place the user in a queue, and force the user to wait their turn. Some channels have special rules, for example requiring the user to join a second channel within a certain amount of time after starting the download to avoid interruptions.\n\nAddons exist, such as XDCCKlipper (for mIRC) which listen to adverts listed in a channel by the bots and save them to a separate window to facilitate easier browsing and allow users to view the status of a bot (speed, queues, slots etc.).\n\nA number of search engines exist, indexing the IRC / XDCC network very much like sites such as The Pirate Bay does for torrents.\n\nCurrently active indexers include:\n\n"}
