{"id": "33645941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33645941", "title": "40 Under 40", "text": "40 Under 40\n\n\"Fortune\" magazine's 40 Under 40 is a list of individuals the publication considered to be the most influential young leaders for the year. The list has existed in two phases: First, from 1999-2003, purely as a numeric ranking of wealth, capturing the first dot com boom. The current iteration started in 2009 and is a ranking of power and influence. The list includes business executives, political figures, sportsmen, fashion designers, and others who are under forty years old. The majority of the list members are business executives from the tech industry.\n\nThe list often features business men and women that have made their names in various industries, and does not always choose candidates from blue chip industries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42878178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42878178", "title": "Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Film in an African Language", "text": "Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Film in an African Language\n\nThe Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Film in an African Language is an annual merit by the Africa Film Academy to recognize the best African film in an indigenous language. It was first awarded in the first edition as \"Best Indigenous Film\". However, it was renamed to \"Best Film in an African Language\" award from the 5th to 9th edition. Since the 10th edition it has been used to immortalize Sembene Ousmane and consequently renamed to \"Sembene Ousmane Awards for Best Film in African Language\".\n"}
{"id": "40746352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40746352", "title": "Albert Paul Weiss", "text": "Albert Paul Weiss\n\nAlbert Paul Weiss (September 15, 1879 – April 3, 1931) was a German American behavioral psychologist, theorist, scientist, and experimentalist. He was born in Steingrund, Germany. His family moved to the United States shortly after his birth and lived in St. Louis, MO. He was raised in a household of scholarly and philosophical interests although neither of his parents were highly educated. He attended University of Missouri for both undergraduate and graduate school and eventually earned his PhD there in 1916. Weiss initially planned on majoring in physics, mathematics, and philosophy until he was inspired by his professor Max Meyer to become a psychologist. After earning his PhD, he went to Ohio State University where he did research and taught up until his death. While in school, Weiss became interested in the physiological and sociological aspects of philosophy. He was interested in the role of language in human behavior and used biology, physics, and chemistry to examine human behaviors. He died of heart disease in 1931.\n\nAs a scientist, Weiss emphasized the importance of applying scientific methods to studying non-physical concepts. He used his scientific background to change how psychological research methods were previously done. Weiss redefined the subject manner and problem being studied in more scientific terms. His language studies were one of the first of the time and as a result he is highly regarded by the Linguistic Society of America. In 1918 he was named Professor of Experimental Psychology, a title that he held until his death.\nHe became the president of the Ohio Academy of Science in 1922 and also went on to become president of the Midwestern Psychological Association in 1929. He was a member of many academic societies including Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, Phi Delta Kappa, and Alpha Psi Delta. He was also an associate editor for Journal of General Psychology.\n\nWeiss published \"A Theoretical Basis of Human Behavior\" in 1925 and went on to publish a second edition in 1929. He was interested in studying human achievement and how people respond to external stimuli. His method of studying human behavior was considered to be overzealous and radical in comparison to traditional behaviorists. He defined human behaviorism as the reason for human achievement. This is why he believed the study of human behavior needed to be done in a carefully constructed scientific manner. He found previous traditional forms of psychological research methods to be insufficient. Weiss believed the current psychological methodology of his time unfitting to study behaviorism because the main focus was physical and mental phenomena instead of the biological and social aspects that he thought were more important. His unparalleled attention to detail in his behavior studies is one of the main reasons why people today regard him as a radical behaviorist.\n\nWeiss wanted to understand human behavior through a materialist and monist perspective. Specifically, he thought that human behavior and achievement could be combined to create one physical element. One of the ways he did this was by conducting biophysical and biosocial experiments to determine if there were physical changes in the body when a person had a biosocial response to external stimuli. He explained that biosocial responses were different from biophysical because it referred to one’s social (as opposed to physical) response to a stimulus. He further analyzed the results of his studies on an atomic level to further support his monist theories.\n\nEven though Weiss is considered to be a behaviorist, he did not want to call himself or any of his students one because of its limiting title. The most notable contribution Weiss made to behaviorism is his studies on language. Weiss found language to be the ultimate form of behavior because it combines mental thought processes with physical processes occurring in the nervous system. Weiss found that when responding to a stimulus, a vocal response is produced. The system of vocal responses is what makes language according to Weiss. Language acts as a way for people to relay their nervous system responses to each other. For Weiss, it is impossible to study behavior without language because they interconnected. Language lends to characteristics and interactions that are a reflection of what is happening in one’s nervous system. Since Weiss was a materialist, he wanted to prove that language, a non-tactile thing, does have material origins.\n\nWeiss started his behavioral studies by examining the human bodies and embryos. Before him, no other researcher questioned what was parts of the nervous system were inherited and which (if any) were developed later on. He examined the anatomical central nervous system of various embryos to compare to human ones. He found that all human infants are born with the same sensori-motor pathways that make up the nervous system. However, the pathways that do not deal with mental functioning such as breathing or digestion mature later on.\n\nWeiss also compared the anatomical structures of humans and animals in order to establish proof that the reason why human and animals have different behaviors is because of their anatomy. He concluded that humans are capable of having biosocial responses and animals are not. Animals are unable to have biosocial responses due to limitations in their sensory organs.\n\nIn order to explain the production of language, Weiss looked at the production of sound coming from the nervous system’s “speakers.\" Weiss was one of the first to extensively study the role of acoustics in psychology. He and a group of graduate students designed an apparatus meant to produce pure tones, control tone intensity, and control phase relations. The purpose of experiments using this apparatus was to determine how different types of sounds are produced and how they relate to each other. He also wanted to determine the threshold (limen) for intensities that can be perceived while measuring the amplification of the intensity.\n\nBefore becoming a scientist, Weiss was interested in philosophy. He sought to use his materialist and monist views to explain questions regarding the mind that were still being debated. He criticized psychologists for avoiding the mind-body problem and believed that using psychology was not enough to fully understand it. He used mechanics as an analogy to explain his understanding of the mind-body problem. He compared the mind to the pressure of a car steering wheel, which is able to change directions when the car is in motion. From there, he realized that there were internal and external conditions that were beyond our capabilities to perceive.\n\nWeiss narrowed consciousness down to three elements: sensations, images, and feelings. These elements had psychical properties that were able to attribute to physical properties. The elements of physical properties were quality, intensity, extent and duration. Very few psychologists agreed with Weiss' physical elements. Weiss believed defining consciousness as experience was lacking because there was no way to expand upon this definition. Weiss proposed that consciousness was a motion, tying back into his automobile analogy.\n\nWeiss has been widely published on a national and global scale. His first published work, \"A Theoretical Basis of Human Behavior\", consisted mostly of his theoretical essays. After its publication, Weiss felt it was incomplete and later came out with a second edition of \"A Theoretical Basis of Human Behavior\" in 1929 which was an expansion and revision on the first edition. His studies have also been published in \"Journal of General Psychology\", where he was an associate editor, and \"The Psychologies of 1930\". He also published \"Psychological Monograph\", which discussed his work in acoustics and included the patents of his sound apparatus. After observing infant anatomy, he wrote \"The Behavior of the Newborn Infant.\" One of the most unusual works that Weiss wrote was \"Psychological Principles of Automotive Driving\", based on his studies done on human-machine relationships.\n"}
{"id": "1177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1177", "title": "Aleister Crowley", "text": "Aleister Crowley\n\nAleister Crowley (; born Edward Alexander Crowley; 12 October 1875 – 1 December 1947) was an English occultist, ceremonial magician, poet, painter, novelist, and mountaineer. He founded the religion of Thelema, identifying himself as the prophet entrusted with guiding humanity into the Æon of Horus in the early 20th century. A prolific writer, he published widely over the course of his life.\n\nBorn to a wealthy family in Royal Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, Crowley rejected his parent's fundamentalist Christian Plymouth Brethren faith to pursue an interest in Western esotericism. He was educated at the University of Cambridge, where he focused his attentions on mountaineering and poetry, resulting in several publications. Some biographers allege that here he was recruited into a British intelligence agency, further suggesting that he remained a spy throughout his life. In 1898 he joined the esoteric Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, where he was trained in ceremonial magic by Samuel Liddell MacGregor Mathers and Allan Bennett. Moving to Boleskine House by Loch Ness in Scotland, he went mountaineering in Mexico with Oscar Eckenstein, before studying Hindu and Buddhist practices in India. He married Rose Edith Kelly and in 1904 they honeymooned in Cairo, Egypt, where Crowley claimed to have been contacted by a supernatural entity named Aiwass, who provided him with \"The Book of the Law\", a sacred text that served as the basis for Thelema. Announcing the start of the Æon of Horus, \"The Book\" declared that its followers should \"Do what thou wilt\" and seek to align themselves with their True Will through the practice of magick.\n\nAfter an unsuccessful attempt to climb Kanchenjunga and a visit to India and China, Crowley returned to Britain, where he attracted attention as a prolific author of poetry, novels, and occult literature. In 1907, he and George Cecil Jones co-founded an esoteric order, the A∴A∴, through which they propagated Thelema. After spending time in Algeria, in 1912 he was initiated into another esoteric order, the German-based Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.), rising to become the leader of its British branch, which he reformulated in accordance with his Thelemite beliefs. Through the O.T.O., Thelemite groups were established in Britain, Australia, and North America. Crowley spent the First World War in the United States, where he took up painting and campaigned for the German war effort against Britain, later revealing that he had infiltrated the pro-German movement to assist the British intelligence services. In 1920 he established the Abbey of Thelema, a religious commune in Cefalù, Sicily where he lived with various followers. His libertine lifestyle led to denunciations in the British press, and the Italian government evicted him in 1923. He divided the following two decades between France, Germany, and England, and continued to promote Thelema until his death.\n\nCrowley gained widespread notoriety during his lifetime, being a recreational drug experimenter, bisexual and an individualist social critic. He was denounced in the popular press as \"the wickedest man in the world\" and a Satanist. Crowley has remained a highly influential figure over Western esotericism and the counterculture, and continues to be considered a prophet in Thelema. He is the subject of various biographies and academic studies.\n\nCrowley was born as Edward Alexander Crowley at 30 Clarendon Square in Royal Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, on 12 October 1875. His father, Edward Crowley (1829–87), was trained as an engineer, but his share in a lucrative family brewing business, Crowley's Alton Ales, had allowed him to retire before his son was born. His mother, Emily Bertha Bishop (1848–1917), came from a Devonshire-Somerset family and had a strained relationship with her son; she described him as \"the Beast\", a name that he revelled in. The couple had been married at London's Kensington Registry Office in November 1874, and were evangelical Christians. Crowley's father had been born a Quaker, but had converted to the Exclusive Brethren, a faction of a Christian fundamentalist group known as the Plymouth Brethren, with Emily joining him upon marriage. Crowley's father was particularly devout, spending his time as a travelling preacher for the sect and reading a chapter from the Bible to his wife and son after breakfast every day. Following the death of their baby daughter in 1880, in 1881 the Crowleys moved to Redhill, Surrey. At the age of 8, Crowley was sent to H.T. Habershon's evangelical Christian boarding school in Hastings, and then to Ebor preparatory school in Cambridge, run by the Reverend Henry d'Arcy Champney, whom Crowley considered a sadist.\n\nIn March 1887, when Crowley was 11, his father died of tongue cancer. Crowley described this as a turning point in his life, and he always maintained an admiration of his father, describing him as \"my hero and my friend\". Inheriting a third of his father's wealth, he began misbehaving at school and was harshly punished by Champney; Crowley's family removed him from the school when he developed albuminuria. He then attended Malvern College and Tonbridge School, both of which he despised and left after a few terms. He became increasingly skeptical regarding Christianity, pointing out inconsistencies in the Bible to his religious teachers, and went against the Christian morality of his upbringing by smoking, masturbating, and having sex with prostitutes from whom he contracted gonorrhea. Sent to live with a Brethren tutor in Eastbourne, he undertook chemistry courses at Eastbourne College. Crowley developed interests in chess, poetry, and mountain climbing, and in 1894 climbed Beachy Head before visiting the Alps and joining the Scottish Mountaineering Club. The following year he returned to the Bernese Alps, climbing the Eiger, Trift, Jungfrau, Mönch, and Wetterhorn.\n\nHaving adopted the name of Aleister over Edward, in October 1895 Crowley began a three-year course at Trinity College, Cambridge, where he was entered for the Moral Science Tripos studying philosophy. With approval from his personal tutor, he changed to English literature, which was not then part of the curriculum offered. Crowley spent much of his time at university engaged in his pastimes, becoming president of the chess club and practising the game for two hours a day; he briefly considered a professional career as a chess player. Crowley also embraced his love of literature and poetry, particularly the works of Richard Francis Burton and Percy Bysshe Shelley. Many of his own poems appeared in student publications such as \"The Granta\", \"Cambridge Magazine\", and \"Cantab\". He continued his mountaineering, going on holiday to the Alps to climb every year from 1894 to 1898, often with his friend Oscar Eckenstein, and in 1897 he made the first ascent of the Mönch without a guide. These feats led to his recognition in the Alpine mountaineering community.\n\nCrowley had his first significant mystical experience while on holiday in Stockholm in December 1896. Several biographers, including Lawrence Sutin, Richard Kaczynski, and Tobias Churton, believed that this was the result of Crowley's first same-sex sexual experience, which enabled him to recognise his bisexuality. At Cambridge, Crowley maintained a vigorous sex life with women—largely with female prostitutes, from one of whom he caught syphilis—but eventually he took part in same-sex activities, despite their illegality. In October 1897, Crowley met Herbert Charles Pollitt, president of the Cambridge University Footlights Dramatic Club, and the two entered into a relationship. They broke apart because Pollitt did not share Crowley's increasing interest in Western esotericism, a break-up that Crowley would regret for many years.\n\nIn 1897, Crowley travelled to Saint Petersburg in Russia, later claiming that he was trying to learn Russian as he was considering a future diplomatic career there. Biographers Richard Spence and Tobias Churton suggested that Crowley had done so as an intelligence agent under the employ of the British secret service, speculating that he had been enlisted while at Cambridge.\n\nIn October 1897, a brief illness triggered considerations of mortality and \"the futility of all human endeavour\", and Crowley abandoned all thoughts of a diplomatic career in favour of pursuing an interest in the occult. In March 1898, he obtained A.E. Waite's \"The Book of Black Magic and of Pacts\" (1898), and then Karl von Eckartshausen's \"The Cloud Upon the Sanctuary\" (1896), furthering his occult interests.\nIn 1898 Crowley privately published 100 copies of his poem \"Aceldama: A Place to Bury Strangers In\", but it was not a particular success. That same year he published a string of other poems, including \"White Stains\", a Decadent collection of erotic poetry that was printed abroad lest its publication be prohibited by the British authorities. In July 1898, he left Cambridge, not having taken any degree at all despite a \"first class\" showing in his 1897 exams and consistent \"second class honours\" results before that.\n\nIn August 1898, Crowley was in Zermatt, Switzerland, where he met the chemist Julian L. Baker, and the two began discussing their common interest in alchemy. Back in London, Baker introduced Crowley to George Cecil Jones, Baker's brother in-law, and a fellow member of the occult society known as the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, which had been founded in 1888. Crowley was initiated into the Outer Order of the Golden Dawn on 18 November 1898 by the group's leader, Samuel Liddell MacGregor Mathers. The ceremony took place in the Golden Dawn's Isis-Urania Temple held at London's Mark Masons Hall, where Crowley took the magical motto and name \"Frater Perdurabo\", which he interpreted as \"I shall endure to the end\". Biographers Richard Spence and Tobias Churton have suggested that Crowley joined the Order under the command of the British secret services to monitor the activities of Mathers, who was known to be a Carlist.\n\nCrowley moved into his own luxury flat at 67–69 Chancery Lane and soon invited a senior Golden Dawn member, Allan Bennett, to live with him as his personal magical tutor. Bennett taught Crowley more about ceremonial magic and the ritual use of drugs, and together they performed the rituals of the \"Goetia\", until Bennett left for South Asia to study Buddhism. In November 1899, Crowley purchased Boleskine House in Foyers on the shore of Loch Ness in Scotland. He developed a love of Scottish culture, describing himself as the \"Laird of Boleskine\", and took to wearing traditional highland dress, even during visits to London. He continued writing poetry, publishing \"Jezebel and Other Tragic Poems\", \"Tales of Archais\", \"Songs of the Spirit\", \"Appeal to the American Republic\", and \"Jephthah\" in 1898–99; most gained mixed reviews from literary critics, although \"Jephthah\" was considered a particular critical success.\n\nCrowley soon progressed through the lower grades of the Golden Dawn, and was ready to enter the group's inner Second Order. He was unpopular in the group; his bisexuality and libertine lifestyle had gained him a bad reputation, and he had developed feuds with some of the members, including W. B. Yeats. When the Golden Dawn's London lodge refused to initiate Crowley into the Second Order, he visited Mathers in Paris, who personally admitted him into the Adeptus Minor Grade. A schism had developed between Mathers and the London members of the Golden Dawn, who were unhappy with his autocratic rule. Acting under Mathers' orders, Crowley – with the help of his mistress and fellow initiate Elaine Simpson – attempted to seize the Vault of the Adepts, a temple space at 36 Blythe Road in West Kensington, from the London lodge members. When the case was taken to court, the judge ruled in favour of the London lodge, as they had paid for the space's rent, leaving both Crowley and Mathers isolated from the group. Spence suggested that the entire scenario was part of an intelligence operation to undermine Mathers' authority.\n\nIn 1900, Crowley travelled to Mexico via the United States, settling in Mexico City and taking a local woman as his mistress. Developing a love of the country, he continued experimenting with ceremonial magic, working with John Dee's Enochian invocations. He later claimed to have been initiated into Freemasonry while there, and he wrote a play based on Richard Wagner's \"Tannhäuser\" as well as a series of poems, published as \"Oracles\" (1905). Eckenstein joined him later that year, and together they climbed several mountains, including Iztaccihuatl, Popocatepetl, and Colima, the latter of which they had to abandon owing to a volcanic eruption. Spence has suggested that the purpose of the trip might have been to explore Mexican oil prospects for British intelligence. Leaving Mexico, Crowley headed to San Francisco before sailing for Hawaii aboard the \"Nippon Maru\". On the ship he had a brief affair with a married woman named Mary Alice Rogers; saying he had fallen in love with her, he wrote a series of poems about the romance, published as \"Alice: An Adultery\" (1903).\nBriefly stopping in Japan and Hong Kong, Crowley reached Ceylon, where he met with Allan Bennett, who was there studying Shaivism. The pair spent some time in Kandy before Bennett decided to become a Buddhist monk in the Theravada tradition, travelling to Burma to do so. Crowley decided to tour India, devoting himself to the Hindu practice of \"Rāja yoga\", from which he claimed to have achieved the spiritual state of \"dhyana\". He spent much of this time studying at the Meenakshi Temple in Madura. At this time he also composed and also wrote poetry which was published as \"The Sword of Song\" (1904). He contracted malaria, and had to recuperate from the disease in Calcutta and Rangoon. In 1902, he was joined in India by Eckenstein and several other mountaineers: Guy Knowles, H. Pfannl, V. Wesseley, and Jules Jacot-Guillarmod. Together the Eckenstein-Crowley expedition attempted K2, which had never been climbed. On the journey, Crowley was afflicted with influenza, malaria, and snow blindness, and other expedition members were also struck with illness. They reached an altitude of before turning back.\n\nHaving arrived in Paris in November 1902 he socialised with friend and future brother-in-law, the painter Gerald Kelly, and through him became a fixture of the Parisian arts scene. Whilst there, Crowley wrote a series of poems on the work of an acquaintance, the sculptor Auguste Rodin. These poems were later published as \"Rodin in Rime\" (1907). One of those frequenting this milieu was W. Somerset Maugham, who after briefly meeting Crowley later used him as a model for the character of Oliver Haddo in his novel \"The Magician\" (1908). Returning to Boleskine in April 1903, in August Crowley wed Gerald's sister Rose Edith Kelly in a \"marriage of convenience\" to prevent her entering an arranged marriage; the marriage appalled the Kelly family and damaged his friendship with Gerald. Heading on a honeymoon to Paris, Cairo, and then Ceylon, Crowley fell in love with Rose and worked to prove his affections. While on his honeymoon, he wrote her a series of love poems, published as \"Rosa Mundi and other Love Songs\" (1906), as well as authoring the religious satire \"Why Jesus Wept\" (1904).\n\nIn February 1904, Crowley and Rose arrived in Cairo. Claiming to be a prince and princess, they rented an apartment in which Crowley set up a temple room and began invoking ancient Egyptian deities, while studying Islamic mysticism and Arabic. According to Crowley's later account, Rose regularly became delirious and informed him \"they are waiting for you.\" On 18 March, she explained that \"they\" were the god Horus, and on 20 March proclaimed that \"the Equinox of the Gods has come\". She led him to a nearby museum, where she showed him a seventh-century BCE mortuary stele known as the Stele of Ankh-ef-en-Khonsu; Crowley thought it important that the exhibit's number was 666, the Number of the Beast in Christian belief, and in later years termed the artefact the \"Stele of Revealing.\"\n\nAccording to Crowley's later statements, on 8 April he heard a disembodied voice that claimed to be that of Aiwass, the messenger of Horus, or Hoor-Paar-Kraat. Crowley said that he wrote down everything the voice told him over the course of the next three days, and titled it \"Liber L vel Legis\" or \"The Book of the Law\". The book proclaimed that humanity was entering a new Aeon, and that Crowley would serve as its prophet. It stated that a supreme moral law was to be introduced in this Aeon, \"Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law,\" and that people should learn to live in tune with their Will. This book, and the philosophy that it espoused, became the cornerstone of Crowley's religion, Thelema. Crowley said that at the time he had been unsure what to do with \"The Book of the Law\". Often resenting it, he said that he ignored the instructions which the text commanded him to perform, which included taking the Stele of Revealing from the museum, fortifying his own island, and translating the book into all the world's languages. According to his account, he instead sent typescripts of the work to several occultists he knew, putting the manuscript away and ignoring it.\n\nReturning to Boleskine, Crowley came to believe that Mathers had begun using magic against him, and the relationship between the two broke down. On 28 July 1905, Rose gave birth to Crowley's first child, a daughter named Lilith, with Crowley writing the pornographic \"Snowdrops From a Curate's Garden\" to entertain his recuperating wife. He also founded a publishing company through which to publish his poetry, naming it the Society for the Propagation of Religious Truth in parody of the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge. Among its first publications were Crowley's \"Collected Works\", edited by Ivor Back. His poetry often received strong reviews (either positive or negative), but never sold well. In an attempt to gain more publicity, he issued a reward of £100 for the best essay on his work. The winner of this was J. F. C. Fuller, a British Army officer and military historian, whose essay, \"The Star in the West\" (1907), heralded Crowley's poetry as some of the greatest ever written.\n\nCrowley decided to climb Kanchenjunga in the Himalayas of Nepal, widely recognised as the world's most treacherous mountain. Assembling a team consisting of Jacot-Guillarmod, Charles Adolphe Reymond, Alexis Pache, and Alcesti C. Rigo de Righi, the expedition was marred by much argument between Crowley and the others, who thought that he was reckless. They eventually mutinied against Crowley's control, with the other climbers heading back down the mountain as nightfall approached despite Crowley's warnings that it was too dangerous. Subsequently, Pache and several porters were killed in an accident, something for which Crowley was widely blamed by the mountaineering community.\n\nSpending time in Moharbhanj, where he took part in big-game hunting and wrote the homoerotic work \"The Scented Garden\", Crowley met up with Rose and Lilith in Calcutta before being forced to leave India after shooting dead a native man who tried to mug him. Briefly visiting Bennett in Burma, Crowley and his family decided to tour Southern China, hiring porters and a nanny for the purpose. Spence has suggested that this trip to China was orchestrated as part of a British intelligence scheme to monitor the region's opium trade. Crowley smoked opium throughout the journey, which took the family from Tengyueh through to Yungchang, Tali, Yunnanfu, and then Hanoi. On the way he spent much time on spiritual and magical work, reciting the \"Bornless Ritual\", an invocation to his Holy Guardian Angel, on a daily basis.\n\nWhile Rose and Lilith returned to Europe, Crowley headed to Shanghai to meet old friend Elaine Simpson, who was fascinated by \"The Book of the Law\"; together they performed rituals in an attempt to contact Aiwass. Crowley then sailed to Japan and Canada, before continuing to New York City, where he unsuccessfully solicited support for a second expedition up Kanchenjunga. Upon arrival in Britain, Crowley learned that his daughter Lilith had died of typhoid in Rangoon, something he later blamed on Rose's increasing alcoholism. Under emotional distress, his health began to suffer, and he underwent a series of surgical operations. He began short-lived romances with actress Vera \"Lola\" Neville (née Snepp) and author Ada Leverson, while Rose gave birth to Crowley's second daughter, Lola Zaza, in February 1907.\n\nWith his old mentor George Cecil Jones, Crowley continued performing the Abramelin rituals at the Ashdown Park Hotel in Coulsdon, Surrey. Crowley claimed that in doing so he attained \"samadhi\", or union with Godhead, thereby marking a turning point in his life. Making heavy use of hashish during these rituals, he wrote an essay on \"The Psychology of Hashish\" (1909) in which he championed the drug as an aid to mysticism. He also claimed to have been contacted once again by Aiwass in late October and November 1907, adding that Aiwass dictated two further texts to him, \"Liber VII\" and \"Liber Cordis Cincti Serpente\", both of which were later classified in the corpus of The Holy Books of Thelema. Crowley wrote down more Thelemic Holy Books during the last two months of the year, including \"Liber LXVI\", \"Liber Arcanorum\", \"Liber Porta Lucis, Sub Figura X\", \"Liber Tau\", \"Liber Trigrammaton\" and \"Liber DCCCXIII vel Ararita\", which he again claimed to have received from a preternatural source. Crowley stated that in June 1909, when the manuscript of \"The Book of the Law\" was rediscovered at Boleskine, he developed the opinion that Thelema represented objective truth.\n\nCrowley's inheritance was running out. Trying to earn money, he was hired by George Montagu Bennett, the Earl of Tankerville, to help protect him from witchcraft; recognising Bennett's paranoia as being based in his cocaine addiction, Crowley took him on holiday to France and Morocco to recuperate. In 1907, he also began taking in paying students, whom he instructed in occult and magical practice. Victor Neuburg, whom Crowley met in February 1907, became his sexual partner and closest disciple; in 1908 the pair toured northern Spain before heading to Tangier, Morocco. The following year Neuburg stayed at Boleskine, where he and Crowley engaged in sadomasochism. Crowley continued to write prolifically, producing such works of poetry as \"Ambergris\", \"Clouds Without Water\", and \"Konx Om Pax\", as well as his first attempt at an autobiography, \"The World's Tragedy\". Recognising the popularity of short horror stories, Crowley wrote his own, some of which were published, and he also published several articles in \"Vanity Fair\", a magazine edited by his friend Frank Harris. He also wrote \"Liber 777\", a book of magical and Qabalistic correspondences that borrowed from Mathers and Bennett.\n\nIn November 1907, Crowley and Jones decided to found an occult order to act as a successor to the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, being aided in doing so by Fuller. The result was the A∴A∴. The group's headquarters and temple were situated at 124 Victoria Street in central London, and their rites borrowed much from those of the Golden Dawn, but with an added Thelemic basis. Its earliest members included solicitor Richard Noel Warren, artist Austin Osman Spare, Horace Sheridan-Bickers, author George Raffalovich, Francis Henry Everard Joseph Feilding, engineer Herbert Edward Inman, Kenneth Ward, and Charles Stansfeld Jones. In March 1909, Crowley began production of a biannual periodical titled \"The Equinox\". He billed this periodical, which was to become the \"Official Organ\" of the A∴A∴, as \"The Review of Scientific Illuminism\".\n\nCrowley had become increasingly frustrated with Rose's alcoholism, and in November 1909 he divorced her on the grounds of his own adultery. Lola was entrusted to Rose's care; the couple remained friends and Rose continued to live at Boleskine. Her alcoholism worsened, and as a result she was institutionalised in September 1911.\n\nIn November 1909, Crowley and Neuburg travelled to Algeria, touring the desert from El Arba to Aumale, Bou Saâda, and then Dā'leh Addin, with Crowley reciting the Quran on a daily basis. During the trip he invoked the thirty aethyrs of Enochian magic, with Neuburg recording the results, later published in \"The Equinox\" as \"The Vision and the Voice\". Following a mountaintop sex magic ritual, Crowley also performed an invocation to the demon Choronzon involving blood sacrifice, considering the results to be a watershed in his magical career. Returning to London in January 1910, Crowley found that Mathers was suing him for publishing Golden Dawn secrets in \"The Equinox\"; the court found in favour of Crowley. The case was widely reported in the press, with Crowley gaining wider fame. Crowley enjoyed this, and played up to the sensationalist stereotype of being a Satanist and advocate of human sacrifice, despite being neither.\n\nThe publicity attracted new members to the A∴A∴, among them Frank Bennett, James Bayley, Herbert Close, and James Windram. The Australian violinist Leila Waddell soon became Crowley's lover. Deciding to expand his teachings to a wider audience, Crowley developed the Rites of Artemis, a public performance of magic and symbolism featuring A∴A∴ members personifying various deities. It was first performed at the A∴A∴ headquarters, with attendees given a fruit punch containing peyote to enhance their experience. Various members of the press attended, and reported largely positively on it. In October and November 1910, Crowley decided to stage something similar, the Rites of Eleusis, at Caxton Hall, Westminster; this time press reviews were mixed. Crowley came under particular criticism from West de Wend Fenton, editor of \"The Looking Glass\" newspaper, who called him \"one of the most blasphemous and cold-blooded villains of modern times\". Fenton's articles suggested that Crowley and Jones were involved in homosexual activity; Crowley did not mind, but Jones unsuccessfully sued for libel. Fuller broke off his friendship and involvement with Crowley over the scandal, and Crowley and Neuburg returned to Algeria for further magical workings.\n\n\"The Equinox\" continued publishing, and various books of literature and poetry were also published under its imprint, like Crowley's \"Ambergris\", \"The Winged Beetle\", and \"The Scented Garden\", as well as Neuburg's \"The Triumph of Pan\" and Ethel Archer's \"The Whirlpool\". In 1911, Crowley and Waddell holidayed in Montigny-sur-Loing, where he wrote prolifically, producing poems, short stories, plays, and 19 works on magic and mysticism, including the two final Holy Books of Thelema. In Paris, he met Mary Desti, who became his next \"Scarlet Woman\", with the two undertaking magical workings in St. Moritz; Crowley believed that one of the Secret Chiefs, Ab-ul-Diz, was speaking through her. Based on Desti's statements when in trance, Crowley wrote the two-volume \"Book 4\" (1912–13) and at the time developed the spelling \"magick\" in reference to the paranormal phenomenon as a means of distinguishing it from the stage magic of illusionists.\n\nIn early 1912, Crowley published \"The Book of Lies\", a work of mysticism that biographer Lawrence Sutin described as \"his greatest success in merging his talents as poet, scholar, and magus\". The German occultist Theodor Reuss later accused him of publishing some of the secrets of his own occult order, the Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.), within \"The Book\". Crowley convinced Reuss that the similarities were coincidental, and the two became friends. Reuss appointed Crowley as head of the O.T.O's British branch, the Mysteria Mystica Maxima (MMM), and at a ceremony in Berlin Crowley adopted the magical name of Baphomet and was proclaimed \"X° Supreme Rex and Sovereign Grand Master General of Ireland, Iona, and all the Britons\". With Reuss' permission, Crowley set about advertising the MMM and re-writing many O.T.O. rituals, which were then based largely on Freemasonry; his incorporation of Thelemite elements proved controversial in the group. Fascinated by the O.T.O's emphasis on sex magic, Crowley devised a magical working based on anal sex and incorporated it into the syllabus for those O.T.O. members who had been initiated into the eleventh degree.\n\nIn March 1913 Crowley acted as producer for \"The Ragged Ragtime Girls\", a group of female violinists led by Waddell, as they performed at London's Old Tivoli theatre. They subsequently performed in Moscow for six weeks, where Crowley had a sadomasochistic relationship with the Hungarian Anny Ringler. In Moscow, Crowley continued to write plays and poetry, including \"Hymn to Pan\", and the Gnostic Mass, a Thelemic ritual that became a key part of O.T.O. liturgy. Churton suggested that Crowley had travelled to Moscow on the orders of British intelligence to spy on revolutionary elements in the city. In January 1914 Crowley and Neuburg settled into an apartment in Paris, where the former was involved in the controversy surrounding Jacob Epstein's new monument to Oscar Wilde. Together Crowley and Neuburg performed the six-week \"Paris Working\", a period of intense ritual involving strong drug use in which they invoked the gods Mercury and Jupiter. As part of the ritual, the couple performed acts of sex magic together, at times being joined by journalist Walter Duranty. Inspired by the results of the Working, Crowley wrote \"Liber Agapé\", a treatise on sex magic. Following the Paris Working, Neuburg began to distance himself from Crowley, resulting in an argument in which Crowley cursed him.\n\nBy 1914 Crowley was living a hand-to-mouth existence, relying largely on donations from A∴A∴ members and dues payments made to O.T.O. In May he transferred ownership of Boleskine House to the MMM for financial reasons, and in July he went mountaineering in the Swiss Alps. During this time the First World War broke out.\nAfter recuperating from a bout of phlebitis, Crowley set sail for the United States aboard the RMS \"Lusitania\" in October 1914. Arriving in New York City, he moved into a hotel and began earning money writing for the American edition of \"Vanity Fair\" and undertaking freelance work for the famed astrologer Evangeline Adams. In the city, he continued experimenting with sex magic, through the use of masturbation, female prostitutes, and male clients of a Turkish bathhouse; all of these encounters were documented in his diaries.\n\nProfessing to be of Irish ancestry and a supporter of Irish independence from Great Britain, Crowley began to espouse support for Germany in their war against Britain. He became involved in New York's pro-German movement, and in January 1915 German spy George Sylvester Viereck employed him as a writer for his propagandist paper, \"The Fatherland\", which was dedicated to keeping the US neutral in the conflict. In later years, detractors denounced Crowley as a traitor to Britain for this action. In reality, Crowley was a double agent, working for the British intelligence services to infiltrate and undermine Germany's operation in New York. Many of his articles in \"The Fatherland\" were hyperbolic, for instance comparing Wilhelm II to Jesus Christ; in July 1915 he orchestrated a publicity stunt – reported on by \"The New York Times\" – in which he declared independence for Ireland in front of the Statue of Liberty; the real intention was to make the German lobby appear ridiculous in the eyes of the American public. It has been argued that he encouraged the German Navy to destroy the \"Lusitania\", informing them that it would ensure the US stayed out of the war, while in reality hoping that it would bring the US into the war on Britain's side.\n\nCrowley entered into a relationship with Jeanne Robert Foster, with whom he toured the West Coast. In Vancouver, headquarters of the North American O.T.O., he met with Charles Stansfeld Jones and Wilfred Talbot Smith to discuss the propagation of Thelema on the continent. In Detroit he experimented with Peyote at Parke-Davis, then visited Seattle, San Francisco, Santa Cruz, Los Angeles, San Diego, Tijuana, and the Grand Canyon, before returning to New York. There he befriended Ananda Coomaraswamy and his wife Alice Richardson; Crowley and Richardson performed sex magic in April 1916, following which she became pregnant and then miscarried. Later that year he took a \"magical retirement\" to a cabin by Lake Pasquaney owned by Evangeline Adams. There, he made heavy use of drugs and undertook a ritual after which he proclaimed himself \"Master Therion\". He also wrote several short stories based on J.G. Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\" and a work of literary criticism, \"The Gospel According to Bernard Shaw\".\n\nIn December he moved to New Orleans, his favourite US city, before spending February 1917 with evangelical Christian relatives in Titusville, Florida. Returning to New York City, he moved in with artist and A∴A∴ member Leon Engers Kennedy in May, learning of his mother's death. After the collapse of \"The Fatherland\", Crowley continued his association with Viereck, who appointed him contributing editor of arts journal \"The International\". Crowley used it to promote Thelema, but it soon ceased publication. He then moved to the studio apartment of Roddie Minor, who became his partner and Scarlet Woman. Through their rituals, which Crowley called \"The Amalantrah Workings\", he believed that they were contacted by a preternatural entity named Lam. The relationship soon ended.\n\nIn 1918, Crowley went on a magical retreat in the wilderness of Esopus Island on the Hudson River. Here, he began a translation of the \"Tao Te Ching\", painted Thelemic slogans on the riverside cliffs, and – he later claimed – experienced past life memories of being Ge Xuan, Pope Alexander VI, Alessandro Cagliostro, and Eliphas Levi. Back in New York City, he moved to Greenwich Village, where he took Leah Hirsig as his lover and next Scarlet Woman. He took up painting as a hobby, exhibiting his work at the Greenwich Village Liberal Club and attracting the attention of the \"New York Evening World\". With the financial assistance of sympathetic Freemasons, Crowley revived \"The Equinox\" with the first issue of volume III, known as \"The Blue Equinox\". He spent mid-1919 on a climbing holiday in Montauk before returning to London in December.\n\nNow destitute and back in London, Crowley came under attack from the tabloid \"John Bull\", which labelled him traitorous \"scum\" for his work with the German war effort; several friends aware of his intelligence work urged him to sue, but he decided not to. When he was suffering from asthma, a doctor prescribed him heroin, to which he soon became addicted. In January 1920, he moved to Paris, renting a house in Fontainebleau with Leah Hirsig; they were soon joined in a \"ménage à trois\" by Ninette Shumway, and also (in living arrangement) by Leah's newborn daughter Anne \"Poupée\" Leah. Crowley had ideas of forming a community of Thelemites, which he called the Abbey of Thelema after the Abbaye de Thélème in François Rabelais' satire \"Gargantua and Pantagruel\". After consulting the \"I Ching\", he chose Cefalù (on Sicily, Italy) as a location, and after arriving there, began renting the old Villa Santa Barbara as his Abbey on 2 April.\nMoving to the commune with Hirsig, Shumway, and their children Hansi, Howard, and Poupée, Crowley described the scenario as \"perfectly happy ... my idea of heaven.\" They wore robes, and performed rituals to the sun god Ra at set times during the day, also occasionally performing the Gnostic Mass; the rest of the day they were left to follow their own interests. Undertaking widespread correspondences, Crowley continued to paint, wrote a commentary on \"The Book of the Law\", and revised the third part of \"Book 4\". He offered a libertine education for the children, allowing them to play all day and witness acts of sex magic. He occasionally travelled to Palermo to visit rent boys and buy supplies, including drugs; his heroin addiction came to dominate his life, and cocaine began to erode his nasal cavity. There was no cleaning rota, and wild dogs and cats wandered throughout the building, which soon became unsanitary. Poupée died in October 1920, and Ninette gave birth to a daughter, Astarte Lulu Panthea, soon afterwards.\n\nNew followers continued to arrive at the Abbey to be taught by Crowley. Among them was film star Jane Wolfe, who arrived in July 1920, where she was initiated into the A∴A∴ and became Crowley's secretary. Another was Cecil Frederick Russell, who often argued with Crowley, disliking the same-sex sexual magic that he was required to perform, and left after a year. More conducive was the Australian Thelemite Frank Bennett, who also spent several months at the Abbey. In February 1922, Crowley returned to Paris for a retreat in an unsuccessful attempt to kick his heroin addiction. He then went to London in search of money, where he published articles in \"The English Review\" criticising the Dangerous Drugs Act 1920 and wrote a novel, \"Diary of a Drug Fiend\", completed in July. On publication, it received mixed reviews; he was lambasted by the \"Sunday Express\", which called for its burning and used its influence to prevent further reprints.\n\nSubsequently, a young Thelemite named Raoul Loveday moved to the Abbey with his wife Betty May; while Loveday was devoted to Crowley, May detested him and life at the commune. She later said that Loveday was made to drink the blood of a sacrificed cat, and that they were required to cut themselves with razors every time they used the pronoun \"I\". Loveday drank from a local polluted stream, soon developing a liver infection resulting in his death in February 1923. Returning to London, May told her story to the press. \"John Bull\" proclaimed Crowley \"the wickedest man in the world\" and \"a man we'd like to hang\", and although Crowley deemed many of their accusations against him to be slanderous, he was unable to afford the legal fees to sue them. As a result, \"John Bull\" continued its attack, with its stories being repeated in newspapers throughout Europe and in North America. The Fascist government of Benito Mussolini learned of Crowley's activities and in April 1923 he was given a deportation notice forcing him to leave Italy; without him, the Abbey closed.\n\nCrowley and Hirsig went to Tunis, where, dogged by continuing poor health, he unsuccessfully tried again to give up heroin, and began writing what he termed his \"autohagiography\", \"The Confessions of Aleister Crowley\". They were joined in Tunis by the Thelemite Norman Mudd, who became Crowley's public relations consultant. Employing a local boy, Mohammad ben Brahim, as his servant, Crowley went with him on a retreat to Nefta, where they performed sex magic together. In January 1924, Crowley travelled to Nice, France, where he met with Frank Harris, underwent a series of nasal operations, and visited the Institute for the Harmonious Development of Man and had a positive opinion of its founder, George Gurdjieff. Destitute, he took on a wealthy student, Alexander Zu Zolar, before taking on another American follower, Dorothy Olsen. Crowley took Olsen back to Tunisia for a magical retreat in Nefta, where he also wrote \"To Man\" (1924), a declaration of his own status as a prophet entrusted with bringing Thelema to humanity. After spending the winter in Paris, in early 1925 Crowley and Olsen returned to Tunis, where he wrote \"The Heart of the Master\" (1938) as an account of a vision he experienced in a trance. In March Olsen became pregnant, and Hirsig was called to take care of her; she miscarried, following which Crowley took Olsen back to France. Hirsig later distanced herself from Crowley, who then denounced her.\n\nAccording to Crowley, Reuss had named him head of the O.T.O. upon his death, but this was challenged by a leader of the German O.T.O., Heinrich Tränker. Tränker called the Hohenleuben Conference in Thuringia, Germany, which Crowley attended. There, prominent members like Karl Germer and Martha Küntzel championed Crowley's leadership, but other key figures like Albin Grau, Oskar Hopfer, and Henri Birven backed Tränker by opposing it, resulting in a split in the O.T.O. Moving to Paris, where he broke with Olsen in 1926, Crowley went through a large number of lovers over the following years, with whom he experimented in sex magic. Throughout, he was dogged by poor health, largely caused by his heroin and cocaine addictions. In 1928, Crowley was introduced to young Englishman Israel Regardie, who embraced Thelema and became Crowley's secretary for the next three years. That year, Crowley also met Gerald Yorke, who began organising Crowley's finances but never became a Thelemite. He also befriended Thomas Driberg; Driberg did not accept Thelema either. It was here that Crowley also published one of his most significant works, \"Magick in Theory and Practice\", which received little attention at the time.\n\nIn December 1928 Crowley met the Nicaraguan Maria Teresa Sanchez. Crowley was deported from France by the authorities, who disliked his reputation and feared that he was a German agent. So that she could join him in Britain, Crowley married Sanchez in August 1929. Now based in London, Mandrake Press agreed to publish his autobiography in a limited edition six-volume set, also publishing his novel \"Moonchild\" and book of short stories \"The Stratagem\". Mandrake went into liquidation in November 1930, before the entirety of Crowley's \"Confessions\" could be published. Mandrake's owner P.R. Stephenson meanwhile wrote \"The Legend of Aleister Crowley\", an analysis of the media coverage surrounding him.\n\nIn April 1930, Crowley moved to Berlin, where he took Hanni Jaegar as his magical partner; the relationship was troubled. In September he went to Lisbon in Portugal to meet the poet Fernando Pessoa. There, he decided to fake his own death, doing so with Pessoa's help at the Boca do Inferno rock formation. He then returned to Berlin, where he reappeared three weeks later at the opening of his art exhibition at the Gallery Neumann-Nierendorf. Crowley's paintings fitted with the fashion for German Expressionism; few of them sold, but the press reports were largely favourable. In August 1931, he took Bertha Busch as his new lover; they had a violent relationship, and often physically assaulted one another. He continued to have affairs with both men and women while in the city, and met with famous people like Aldous Huxley and Alfred Adler. After befriending him, in January 1932 he took the communist Gerald Hamilton as a lodger, through whom he was introduced to many figures within the Berlin far left; it is possible that he was operating as a spy for British intelligence at this time, monitoring the communist movement.\n\nCrowley left Busch and returned to London, where he took Pearl Brooksmith as his new Scarlet Woman. Undergoing further nasal surgery, it was here in 1932 that he was invited to be guest of honour at Foyles' Literary Luncheon, also being invited by Harry Price to speak at the National Laboratory of Psychical Research. In need of money, he launched a series of court cases against people whom he believed had libelled him, some of which proved successful. He gained much publicity for his lawsuit against Constable and Co for publishing Nina Hamnett's \"Laughing Torso\" (1932) – a book he thought libelled him – but lost the case. The court case added to Crowley's financial problems, and in February 1935 he was declared bankrupt. During the hearing, it was revealed that Crowley had been spending three times his income for several years.\n\nCrowley developed a friendship with Deidre Patricia Doherty; she offered to bear his child, who was born in May 1937. Named Randall Gair, Crowley nicknamed him Aleister Atatürk. Crowley continued to socialise with friends, holding curry parties in which he cooked particularly spicy food for them. In 1936, he published his first book in six years, \"The Equinox of the Gods\", which contained a facsimile of \"The Book of the Law\" and was considered to be volume III, number 3, of \"The Equinox\" periodical. The work sold well, resulting in a second print run. In 1937 he gave a series of public lectures on yoga in Soho. Crowley was now living largely off contributions supplied by the O.T.O.'s Agape Lodge in California, led by rocket scientist John Whiteside \"Jack\" Parsons. Crowley was intrigued by the rise of Nazism in Germany, and influenced by his friend Martha Küntzel believed that Adolf Hitler might convert to Thelema; when the Nazis abolished the German O.T.O. and imprisoned Germer, who fled to the US, Crowley then lambasted Hitler as a black magician.\n\nWhen the Second World War broke out, Crowley wrote to the Naval Intelligence Division offering his services, but they declined. He associated with a variety of figures in Britain's intelligence community at the time, including Dennis Wheatley, Roald Dahl, Ian Fleming, and Maxwell Knight, and claimed to have been behind the \"V for Victory\" sign first used by the BBC; this has never been proven.\nIn 1940, his asthma worsened, and with his German-produced medication unavailable, he returned to using heroin, once again becoming addicted. As the Blitz hit London, Crowley relocated to Torquay, where he was briefly hospitalised with asthma, and entertained himself with visits to the local chess club. Tiring of Torquay, he returned to London, where he was visited by American Thelemite Grady McMurtry, to whom Crowley awarded the title of \"Hymenaeus Alpha\". He stipulated that though Germer would be his immediate successor, McMurty should succeed Germer as head of the O.T.O. after the latter's death. With O.T.O. initiate Lady Frieda Harris, Crowley developed plans to produce a tarot card set, designed by him and painted by Harris. Accompanying this was a book, published in a limited edition as \"The Book of Thoth\" by Chiswick Press in 1944. To aid the war effort, he wrote a proclamation on the rights of humanity, \"Liber Oz\", and a poem for the liberation of France, \"Le Gauloise\". Crowley's final publication during his lifetime was a book of poetry, \"Olla: An Anthology of Sixty Years of Song\". Another of his projects, \"Aleister Explains Everything\", was posthumously published as \"Magick Without Tears\".\n\nIn April 1944 Crowley briefly moved to Aston Clinton in Buckinghamshire, where he was visited by the poet Nancy Cunard, before relocating to Hastings in Sussex, where he took up residence at the Netherwood boarding house. He took a young man named Kenneth Grant as his secretary, paying him in magical teaching rather than wages. He was also introduced to John Symonds, whom he appointed to be his literary executor; Symonds thought little of Crowley, later publishing negative biographies of him. Corresponding with the illusionist Arnold Crowther, it was through him that Crowley was introduced to Gerald Gardner, the future founder of Gardnerian Wicca. They became friends, with Crowley authorising Gardner to revive Britain's ailing O.T.O. Another visitor was Eliza Marian Butler, who interviewed Crowley for her book \"The Myth of the Magus\". Other friends and family also spent time with him, among them Doherty and Crowley's son Aleister Atatürk. On 1 December 1947, Crowley died at Netherwood of chronic bronchitis aggravated by pleurisy and myocardial degeneration, aged 72. His funeral was held at a Brighton crematorium on 5 December; about a dozen people attended, and Louis Wilkinson read excerpts from the Gnostic Mass, \"The Book of the Law\", and \"Hymn to Pan\". The funeral generated press controversy, and was labelled a Black Mass by the tabloids. Crowley's ashes were sent to Karl Germer in the US, who buried them in his garden in Hampton, New Jersey.\n\nCrowley's belief system, Thelema, has been described by scholars as a religion, and more specifically as both a new religious movement, and as a \"magico-religious doctrine\". It has also been characterised as a form of esotericism and modern Paganism. Although holding \"The Book of the Law\"—which was composed in 1904—as its central text, Thelema took shape as a complete system in the years after 1904.\n\nIn his autobiography, Crowley claimed that his purpose in life had been to \"bring oriental wisdom to Europe and to restore paganism in a purer form\", although what he meant by \"paganism\" was unclear.\nCrowley's thought was not always cohesive, and was influenced by a variety of sources, ranging from eastern religious movements and practices like Hindu yoga and Buddhism, scientific naturalism, and various currents within Western esotericism, among them ceremonial magic, alchemy, astrology, Rosicrucianism, Kabbalah, and the Tarot. He was steeped in the esoteric teachings he had learned from the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, although pushed further with his own interpretations and strategies than the Golden Dawn had done. Crowley incorporated concepts and terminology from South Asian religious traditions like yoga and Tantra into his Thelemic system, believing that there was a fundamental underlying resemblance between Western and Eastern spiritual systems.\nThe historian Alex Owen noted that Crowley adhered to the \"modus operandi\" of the Decadent movement throughout his life.\n\nCrowley believed that the twentieth century marked humanity's entry to the Aeon of Horus, a new era in which humans would take increasing control of their destiny. He believed that this Aeon follows on from the Aeon of Osiris, in which paternalistic religions like Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism dominated the world, and that this in turn had followed the Aeon of Isis, which had been maternalistic and dominated by goddess worship. He believed that Thelema was the proper religion of the Aeon of Horus, and also deemed himself to be the prophet of this new Aeon. Thelema revolves around the idea that human beings each have their own True Will that they should discover and pursue, and that this exists in harmony with the Cosmic Will that pervades the universe. Crowley referred to this process of searching and discovery of one's True Will to be \"the Great Work\" or the attaining of the \"knowledge and conversation of the Holy Guardian Angel\". His favoured method of doing so was through the performance of the Abramelin operation, a ceremonial magic ritual obtained from a 17th-century grimoire. The moral code of \"Do What Thou Wilt\" is believed by Thelemites to be the religion's ethical law, although the historian of religion Marco Pasi noted that this was not anarchistic or libertarian in structure, as Crowley saw individuals as part of a wider societal organism.\n\nCrowley believed in the objective existence of magic, which he chose to spell \"Magick\", an older archaic spelling of the word. He provided various different definitions of this term over his career. In his book \"Magick in Theory and Practice\", Crowley defined Magick as \"the Science and Art of causing change to occur in conformity with Will\". He also told his disciple Karl Germer that \"Magick is getting into communication with individuals who exist on a higher plane than ours. Mysticism is the raising of oneself to their level.\" Crowley saw Magick as a third way between religion and science, giving \"The Equinox\" the subtitle of \"The Method of Science; the Aim of Religion\". Within that journal he expressed positive sentiments toward science and the scientific method, and urged magicians to keep detailed records of their magical experiments, \"The more scientific the record is, the better.\" His understanding of magic was also influenced by the work of the anthropologist James Frazer, in particular the view that magic was a precursor to science in a cultural evolutionary framework. Unlike Frazer, however, Crowley did not see magic as a survival from the past that required eradication, but rather he believed that magic had to be adapted to suit the new age of science. In Crowley's alternative schema, old systems of \"magic\" had to decline (per Frazer's framework) so that science and magic could synthesize into \"magick\", which would simultaneously accept the existence of the supernatural and an experimental method. Crowley deliberately adopted an exceptionally broad definition of magick that included almost all forms of technology as magick, adopting an instrumentalist interpretation of magic, science, and technology.\n\nSexuality played an important role in Crowley's ideas about magick and his practice of it, and has been described as being central to Thelema. He outlined three forms of sex magick—the autoerotic, homosexual, and heterosexual—and argued that such acts could be used to focus the magician's will onto a specific goal such as financial gain or personal creative success. For Crowley, sex was treated as a sacrament, with the consumption of sexual fluids interpreted as a Eucharist. This was often manifested as the Cakes of Light, a biscuit containing either menstrual blood or a mixture of semen and vaginal fluids. The Gnostic Mass is the central religious ceremony within Thelema.\n\nCrowley's theological beliefs were not clear. The historian Ronald Hutton noted that some of Crowley's writings could be used to argue that he was an atheist, while some support the idea that he was a polytheist, and others would bolster the idea that he was a mystical monotheist. On the basis of the teachings in \"The Book of the Law\", Crowley described a pantheon of three deities taken from the ancient Egyptian pantheon: Nuit, Hadit, and Ra-Hoor-Khuit. In 1928, he made the claim that all \"true\" deities were \"derived\" from this trinity. Jason Josephson-Storm has argued that Crowley built on 19th-century attempts to link early Christianity to Paganism, such as Frazer's \"Golden Bough\", to synthesize Christian theology and Neopaganism while remaining critical of institutional and traditional Christianity.\n\nBoth during his life and after it, Crowley has been widely described as a Satanist, usually by detractors. Crowley stated he did not consider himself a Satanist, nor did he worship Satan, as he did not accept the Christian world view in which Satan was believed to exist. He nevertheless used Satanic imagery, for instance by describing himself as \"the Beast 666\" and referring to the Whore of Babylon in his work, while in later life he sent \"Antichristmas cards\" to his friends. In his writings, Crowley occasionally identified Aiwass as Satan and designated him as \"Our Lord God the Devil\" at one occasion. The scholar of religion Gordan Djurdjevic stated that Crowley \"was emphatically not\" a Satanist, \"if for no other reason than simply because he did not identify himself as such\". Crowley nevertheless expressed anti-Christian sentiment, stating that he hated Christianity \"as Socialists hate soap\", an animosity likely stemming from his experiences among the Plymouth Brethren. He was also accused of advocating human sacrifice, largely because of a passage in \"Book 4\" in which he stated that \"A male child of perfect innocence and high intelligence is the most satisfactory victim\" and added that he had sacrificed about 150 every year. This was a tongue-in-cheek reference to ejaculation, something not realised by his critics, thus reflecting their own \"ignorance and prejudice\" toward Crowley.\n\nCrowley considered himself to be one of the outstanding figures of his time. The historian Ronald Hutton stated that in Crowley's youth, he was \"a self-indulgent and flamboyant young man\" who \"set about a deliberate flouting and provocation of social and religious norms\", while being shielded from an \"outraged public opinion\" by his inherited wealth. Hutton also described Crowley as having both an \"unappeasable desire\" to take control of any organisation that he belonged to, and \"a tendency to quarrel savagely\" with those who challenged him. Crowley biographer Martin Booth asserted that Crowley was \"self-confident, brash, eccentric, egotistic, highly intelligent, arrogant, witty, wealthy, and, when it suited him, cruel\". Similarly, Richard Spence noted that Crowley was \"capable of immense physical and emotional cruelty\". Biographer Lawrence Sutin noted that Crowley exhibited \"courage, skill, dauntless energy, and remarkable focus of will\" while at the same time showing a \"blind arrogance, petty fits of bile, [and] contempt for the abilities of his fellow men\". The Thelemite Lon Milo DuQuette noted that Crowley \"was by no means perfect\" and \"often alienated those who loved him dearest.\"\nCrowley enjoyed being outrageous and flouting conventional morality, with John Symonds noting that he \"was in revolt against the moral and religious values of his time\". Crowley's political thought was studied by academic Marco Pasi, who noted that for Crowley, socio-political concerns were subordinate to metaphysical and spiritual ones. He was neither on the political left nor right but perhaps best categorised as a \"conservative revolutionary\" despite not being affiliated with the German-based conservative revolutionary movement. Pasi described Crowley's affinity to the extreme ideologies of Nazism and Marxism–Leninism, which aimed to violently overturn society: \"What Crowley liked about Nazism and communism, or at least what made him curious about them, was the anti-Christian position and the revolutionary and socially subversive implications of these two movements. In their subversive powers, he saw the possibility of an annihilation of old religious traditions, and the creation of a void that Thelema, subsequently, would be able to fill.\" Crowley described democracy as an \"imbecile and nauseating cult of weakness\", and commented that \"The Book of the Law\" proclaimed that \"there is the master and there is the slave; the noble and the serf; the 'lone wolf' and the herd\". In this attitude he was influenced by the work of Friedrich Nietzsche and by Social Darwinism. Although he had contempt for most of the British aristocracy, he regarded himself as an aristocrat and styled himself as Laird Boleskine, once describing his ideology as \"aristocratic communism\".\n\nCrowley was bisexual, and exhibited a sexual preference for women, with his homosexual relationships being fewer and clustered in the early part of his life. In particular he had an attraction toward \"exotic women\", and claimed to have fallen in love on multiple occasions; Kaczynski stated that \"when he loved, he did so with his whole being, but the passion was typically short-lived\". Even in later life, Crowley was able to attract young bohemian women to be his lovers, largely due to his charisma. During homosexual anal intercourse, he usually played the passive role, which Booth believed \"appealed to his masochistic side\". Crowley argued that homosexual and bisexual people should not suppress their sexual orientation, commenting that a person \"must not be ashamed or afraid of being homosexual if he happens to be so at heart; he must not attempt to violate his own true nature because of public opinion, or medieval morality, or religious prejudice which would wish he were otherwise.\" On other issues he adopted a more conservative attitude; he opposed abortion on moral grounds, believing that no woman following her True Will would ever desire one.\n\nBiographer Lawrence Sutin stated that \"blatant bigotry is a persistent minor element in Crowley's writings\". Sutin thought Crowley \"a spoiled scion of a wealthy Victorian family who embodied many of the worst John Bull racial and social prejudices of his upper-class contemporaries\", noting that he \"embodied the contradiction that writhed within many Western intellectuals of the time: deeply held racist viewpoints courtesy of society, coupled with a fascination with people of colour\". Crowley insulted his close Jewish friend Victor Neuburg using anti-Semitic slurs and he had mixed opinions about Jews as a group. Although he praised their \"sublime\" poetry and stated that they exhibited \"imagination, romance, loyalty, probity and humanity\", he also thought that centuries of persecution had led some Jews to exhibit \"avarice, servility, falseness, cunning and the rest\". He was also known to praise various ethnic and cultural groups, for instance he thought that the Chinese people exhibited a \"spiritual superiority\" to the English, and praised Muslims for exhibiting \"manliness, straightforwardness, subtlety, and self-respect\".\n\nCrowley also exhibited a \"general misogyny\" that Booth believed arose from his bad relationship with his mother. Sutin noted that Crowley \"largely accepted the notion, implicitly embodied in Victorian sexology, of women as secondary social beings in terms of intellect and sensibility\". Crowley described women as \"moral inferiors\" who had to be treated with \"firmness, kindness and justice\".\n\nCrowley has remained an influential figure, both amongst occultists and in popular culture, particularly that of Britain, but also of other parts of the world. In 2002, a BBC poll placed Crowley seventy-third in a list of the 100 Greatest Britons. Richard Cavendish has written of him that \"In native talent, penetrating intelligence and determination, Aleister Crowley was the best-equipped magician to emerge since the seventeenth century.\" The scholar of esotericism Egil Asprem described him as \"one of the most well-known figures in modern occultism\". The scholar of esotericism Wouter Hanegraaff asserted that Crowley was an extreme representation of \"the dark side of the occult\", adding that he was \"the most notorious occultist magician of the twentieth century\". The philosopher John Moore opined that Crowley stood out as a \"Modern Master\" when compared with other prominent occult figures like George Gurdjieff, P. D. Ouspensky, Rudolf Steiner, or Helena Blavatsky, also describing him as a \"living embodiment\" of Oswald Spengler's \"Faustian Man\".\nBiographer Tobias Churton considered Crowley \"a pioneer of consciousness research\". Hutton noted that Crowley had \"an important place in the history of modern Western responses to Oriental spiritual traditions\", while Sutin thought that he had made \"distinctly original contributions\" to the study of yoga in the West.\n\nThelema continued to develop and spread following Crowley's death. In 1969, the O.T.O. was reactivated in California under the leadership of Grady Louis McMurtry; in 1985 its right to the title was unsuccessfully challenged in court by a rival group, the Society Ordo Templi Orientis, led by Brazilian Thelemite Marcelo Ramos Motta.\nAnother American Thelemite was the filmmaker Kenneth Anger, who had been influenced by Crowley's writings from a young age. In the United Kingdom, Kenneth Grant propagated a tradition known as Typhonian Thelema through his organisation, the Typhonian O.T.O., later renamed the Typhonian Order.\nAlso in Britain, an occultist known as Amado Crowley claimed to be Crowley's son; this has been refuted by academic investigation. Amado argued that Thelema was a false religion created by Crowley to hide his true esoteric teachings, which Amado claimed to be propagating.\n\nSeveral Western esoteric traditions other than Thelema were also influenced by Crowley, with Djurdjevic observing that \"Crowley's influence on twentieth-century and contemporary esotericism has been enormous\". Gerald Gardner, founder of Gardnerian Wicca, made use of much of Crowley's published material when composing the Gardnerian ritual liturgy, and the Australian witch Rosaleen Norton was also heavily influenced by Crowley's ideas. More widely, Crowley became \"a dominant figure\" in the modern Pagan community. L. Ron Hubbard, the American founder of Scientology, was involved in Thelema in the early 1940s (with Jack Parsons), and it has been argued that Crowley's ideas influenced some of Hubbard's work. The scholars of religion Asbjørn Dyrendel, James R. Lewis, and Jesper Petersen noted that despite the fact that Crowley was not a Satanist, he \"in many ways embodies the pre-Satanist esoteric discourse on Satan and Satanism through his lifestyle and his philosophy\", with his \"image and ought\" becoming an \"important influence\" on the later development of religious Satanism. For instance, two prominent figures in religious Satanism, Anton LaVey and Michael Aquino, were influenced by Crowley's work.\n\nCrowley also had a wider influence in British popular culture. After his time in Cefalù which had brought him to public attention in Britain, various \"literary Crowleys\" appeared; characters in fiction based upon him. One of the earliest was the character of the poet Shelley Arabin in John Buchan's 1926 novel \"The Dancing Floor\". In his novel \"The Devil Rides Out\", the writer Dennis Wheatley used Crowley as a partial basis for the character of Damien Morcata, a portly bald defrocked priest who engages in black magic. The occultist Dion Fortune used Crowley as a basis for characters in her books \"The Secrets of Doctor Taverner\" (1926) and \"The Winged Bull\" (1935). He was included as one of the figures on the cover art of The Beatles' album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" (1967), and his motto of \"Do What Thou Wilt\" was inscribed on the vinyl of Led Zeppelin's album \"Led Zeppelin III\" (1970). Led Zeppelin co-founder Jimmy Page bought Boleskine in 1971, and part of the band's film \"The Song Remains the Same\" was filmed in the grounds. He sold it in 1992. David Bowie made reference to Crowley in the lyrics of his song \"Quicksand\" (1971), while Ozzy Osbourne and his lyricist Bob Daisley wrote a song titled \"Mr. Crowley\" (1980). Crowley began to receive scholarly attention from academics in the late 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36612183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36612183", "title": "Apti Aukhadov", "text": "Apti Aukhadov\n\nApti Khamzatovich Aukhadov (, born 18 November 1992) is a Russian weightlifter competing in the 85 kg category. He is of Chechen descent. \n\nAukhadov was the world junior champion in 2010 and won silver at the 2011 European Weightlifting Championships. He initially was awarded the silver medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the men's 85 kg category with a total of 385 kg. Aukhadov took gold at the 2013 World Weightlifting Championships with a combined total of 387 kg.\n\nIn June 2016, it was announced by IWF that retests of the samples taken from the 2012 Olympics indicated that Aukhadov had tested positive for prohibited substances, namely Dehydrochloromethyltestosterone and Drostanolone. If confirmed, Aukhadov faced losing his Olympic medal and all results and medals earned from the date of the sample in 2012 to 2016. In October 2016, he was stripped of his Olympic medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "58226550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58226550", "title": "Barbara Andrews (Lutheran pastor)", "text": "Barbara Andrews (Lutheran pastor)\n\nBarbara Louise Andrews (May 11, 1935 - March 31, 1978) was an American Lutheran pastor.\n\nA native of Minneapolis, Andrews was born with cerebral palsy and used a wheelchair throughout her life. In 1964 she became the first woman accepted as a full-time student to the Lutheran Theological Seminary, from which she graduated in 1969. She took a job on the staff of the Lutheran Campus Ministry of the University of Minnesota while in seminary. She was ordained on December 22, 1970, two months after the ordination of women had been approved by the American Lutheran Church. Elizabeth Platz had been ordained one month earlier, and the two were the first women ordained as Lutheran pastors in the United States. Two months after ordination, Andrews joined the Edina Community Lutheran Church in Edina, Minnesota as its pastor. She remained there until 1974, when she became chaplain of the Luther Haven Nursing Home in Detroit. After two and a half years, she resigned to become interim pastor of Detroit's Resurrection Lutheran Church. During this time, she also served as a chaplain for Lutheran Social Services in Michigan. Andrews died in a fire in her Detroit apartment. For her contributions to ministry, she was posthumously awarded the Faithfulness in Ministry Cross by the Luther Theological Seminary on January 5, 1995.\n"}
{"id": "37904316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37904316", "title": "Bridget Bostock", "text": "Bridget Bostock\n\nBridget Bostock (born c. 1678, died after 1749), also known as the Cheshire Doctoress, was a faith healer who spent her entire life in Coppenhall, Cheshire. She had been working as a healer for many years, employing \"fasting spittle, a little liquor of ‘a red complexion’, touch, and prayer\", but came to national prominence after she was featured in a local newspaper in August 1748, when she was about 70 years of age. Her fame became such that by the following month she was receiving 600–700 visitors a day seeking her assistance, and she soon decided that she would only see those she had dealt with before or who were suffering from deafness. Sir John Price, a Welsh baronet, repeatedly importuned Bostock to raise his wife from the dead, but she refused.\n\nBostock was reported to be a regular churchgoer and a person of great faith by William Harding, the minister of her church, whose son claimed that she had cured his lameness. Nothing is known of her after 1749.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "40135497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40135497", "title": "Charimaya Tamang", "text": "Charimaya Tamang\n\nCharimaya Tamang is recipient of Hero Acting to End Modern-Day Slavery Award 2011, founder of Shakti Samuha which has been awarded with Ramon Magsaysay Award 2013. She was sold to India when she was 16 years to work in brothel as a sex worker. She spent 22 months in a brothel before the Indian government rescued her along with over 200 other Nepali women in 1996. Upon her return to Nepal, Tamang was ostracised by her community. Later in 2000, Tamang and 15 other survivors established Shakti Samuha, an anti-trafficking NGO.\n\n"}
{"id": "52311710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52311710", "title": "Chinubhai Chimanlal", "text": "Chinubhai Chimanlal\n\nChinubhai Chimanlal also commonly referred to as Chinubhai Mayor (1 November 1901 – 1 August 1993) was industrialist, cotton textile mill owner and one of the scions of Lalbhai group. He was elected as first mayor of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation.\n\nHe was born on 1 November 1901 to Chimanlal Lalbhai and Laxmiben at Ahmedabad. His father Chimanlal Lalbhai was one of the co-founders of Arvind Lalbhai group along with his younger brothers, Kasturbhai Lalbhai and Narottambhai Lalbhai. \n\nThe Lalbhai family had close relations with the Sarabhais. Chinubhai's sister Manorama, was married to Ambalal Sarabhai's eldest son, Suhrid Sarabhai. Further, the Lalbhai family was also closely related to Hutheesing family of Ahmedabad and Surottam Hutheesing another contemporary textile businessman was his cousin.\n\nAfter completing his education from Ahmedabad and Varanasi, he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree of University of Bombay. Chinubhai married Prabhavatiben in 1950 and couple had a daughter and a son, Urvashi and Rajiv, respectively, from the wedlock.\n\nHe joined the family business of textile mills. He joined Saraspur Mills in 1934. He served as Chairman of Ahmedabad Textile Mill's Association's President for year 1964-65.\n\nHe was elected as corporator of Ahmedabad Municipality in 1942 and later its head in 1949. In 1950, when Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation was founded he was elected as its Mayor, a post he served till 1962. It was during his tenure city got various libraries, playgrounds, a stadium, an auditorium. He was first to invite noted architect, Le Corbusier to India, who later did many works in India. He had been invited by Chinubhai Chimanbhai and his cousin, Surottam Hutheesing for their own residence. Chinubhai and Hutheesing also commissioned the architect with other projects - like Sanskar Kendra Museum and Mill Owners' Association Building (ATMA House), respectively. Chinubhai is credited to changed the city and corporation functioning. He became so popular that he came to be known by name \"Chinubhai Mayor\". He also served as first Chairman of Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation and Cama Hotel. He also served as Chairman of Gujarat Regional Branch of Indian Institute of Public Administration.\n\nHe was also noted for his philanthropy and has been noted for promoting great institutions like the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, National Institute of Design, the Ahmedabad Textile Industry’s Research Association and many more like Shardaben Chimanlal Educational Research Center, Chimanlal Lalbhai Centre for Management, Ahmedabad, Sardhaban Chimanlal Lalbhai Hospital Ahmedabad, Smt. Laxmiben Chimanlal Lalbhai Blood Bank, Smt Chimanlal Lalbhai Gold Medal in medicine.\n\nHe died on 1 August 1993 at Ahmedabad.\n\nShri Chinubhai Chimanbhai Sabhagruh, an auditorium cum community hall has been named after him as a memorial in Ahmedabad.\n"}
{"id": "42280289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42280289", "title": "Christopher Statton", "text": "Christopher Statton\n\nChristopher Statton is an American artist and arts administrator, community activist, and philanthropist, and activist based in the San Francisco Bay Area. Statton is best known for his role in establishing San Francisco’s oldest continuously running theater, the Roxie Theater as a non-profit during his four-year tenure as Executive Director, 2010 – 2013. In 2013 he was awarded the Marlon Riggs Award by the San Francisco Film Critics Circle for “his significant contribution to San Francisco’s film community through the Roxie Theater over the past four years.” Ryan Coogler also received the award for his film \"Fruitvale Station\". In 2013, San Francisco District 9 Supervisor David Campos awarded Statton with a Certificate of Honor for his “important and tireless work with the Roxie.” Statton resigned from the Roxie in 2013 due to health concerns.\n\nBorn with haemophilia, Statton was one of the 6,000 – 10,000 hemophiliacs to be infected with both HIV and hepatitis C from contaminated haemophilia blood products in the early eighties by the pharmaceutical companies that were producing concentrate factor VIII, namely the Bayer Corporation. Living with these diseases for all or most of his life (he's had HIV and hepatitis C since he was four-years-old) has led Statton to be a fierce activist for social and economic justice.\n\nIn 2006 Statton co-founded the project Sidewalk Sideshow with Reverend Paul Gaffney as a project of the Marin Interfaith Street Chaplaincy. The project produces music shows with San Rafael’s street and homeless community. In 2013 Statton co-launched the Roxie Theater’s Lights. Camera. Action! Awards to honor Bay Area social justice documentary filmmakers. The inaugural Awards honored the filmmaking team Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman (filmmaker) and filmmaker Hima B for the significant contributions these filmmakers have had in bringing attention and awareness to the challenges of those living with HIV/AIDS. In 2016 Statton was asked to be a part of the HIV Story Project, co-founded by Marc Smolowitz. The HIV Story Project has archived over 1,000 videos from survivors and others affected by HIV online at www.thehivstoryproject.org.\n\nCurrently Statton is working with The Gubbio Project, which provides an average of 100 people from the street community with safety and rest on the pews in the sanctuary of St. Boniface church in San Francisco’s Tenderloin neighborhood each weekday from 6am to 3pm. The Gubbio Project also provides toiletries, blankets, clothing vouchers, referrals, clean bathrooms, and haircuts for its community. In 2015 Statton co-produced the event \"Blanket Statements, An Evening of Comedy with W. Kamau Bell\" to benefit the Gubbio Project.\n\nStatton is one of the core organizers and a member of the Board of Directors of the Clarion Alley Mural Project (CAMP). In 2014 he collaborated with artists and CAMP organizers Megan Wilson and Mike Reger to create the mural \"Wall of Shame & Solutions\" on Clarion Alley in San Francisco’s Mission District to call out the City’s government officials on the highly contested policies that are impacting the changing character of San Francisco. In 2015 Statton collaborated with poet Tony Robles to create the mural \"No Clear-Cutting Our Community\" on Clarion Alley, protesting Forest City Enterprises' 5M development in San Francisco's South of Market neighborhood. Statton has also created two murals on Clarion Alley with his collaborator Megan Wilson in 2015 and 2016 in support of \"Housing Is A Human Right.\" In 2016 Statton collaborated with the San Francisco Poster Syndicate to paint the mural anti-Trump mural \"Cultivating Resistance\" in response to the election.\n\nIn 2015 Statton and Wilson were invited to participate in the Geneng Street Art Project in Yogyakarta Indonesia, organized by Ruang Kelas SD. The theme of the project was \"Gemah Ripah Loh Jinawi,\" which translates to a critique of the unprecedented levels of development and displacement, impacting farmers and the natural resources in the areas surrounding the city of Yogyakarta. Wilson and Statton were two of the 30+ artists to paint murals on the facades of the homes in the farming community of Sewon.\n\nStatton and Wilson launched the public project \"Better Homes & Gardens Today\" in fall 2014, creating a limited edition of 300 pairs of hand-painted signs with the word “Home” in different languages accompanied by a flower. Statton and Wilson state the project’s goals to: “1) Heighten 'home' and the realities of homelessness; 2) Cultivate a dialog within communities and amongst disparate groups – especially with those in the tech sector who are having a significant impact on housing instability in the Bay Area - about the funding and policy change that is needed to help end homelessness; and 3) To raise money to benefit the Gubbio Project, the Coalition on Homelessness, San Francisco, and At The Crossroads, organizations working to address homelessness in San Francisco.” \"Better Homes & Gardens Today\" was included in the exhibition \"Street Messages\" at Lazarides Gallery in London as part of the launch of the book \"Street Messages, edited by Nicholas Ganz.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300559", "title": "Cornish people", "text": "Cornish people\n\nThe Cornish people or Cornish () are a Celtic ethnic group native to, or associated with Cornwall and a recognised national minority in the United Kingdom, which can trace its roots to the ancient Britons who inhabited southern and central Great Britain before the Roman conquest. Many in Cornwall today continue to assert a distinct identity separate from or in addition to English or British identities. Cornish identity has been adopted by migrants into Cornwall, as well as by emigrant and descendant communities from Cornwall, the latter sometimes referred to as the Cornish diaspora. Although not included as an explicit option in the UK census, the numbers of those claiming Cornish ethnic and national identity are officially recognised and recorded.\n\nThroughout classical antiquity, the ancient Britons formed a series of tribes, cultures and identities in Great Britain; the Dumnonii and Cornovii were the Celtic tribes who inhabited what was to become Cornwall during the Iron Age, Roman and post-Roman periods. The name Cornwall and its demonym Cornish are derived from the Celtic Cornovii tribe. The Anglo-Saxon invasion and settlement of Britain in the 5th to 6th centuries pushed Celtic culture and some Celtic peoples to the northern and western fringes of Britain. The Cornish people, who shared the Brythonic language with the Welsh and Bretons across the sea, were referred to in the Old English language as the \"Westwalas\" meaning West Welsh. The Battle of Deorham between the Britons and Anglo-Saxons is thought to have resulted in a loss of landlinks with the people of Wales.\n\nThe Cornish people and their Brythonic Cornish language experienced a process of anglicisation and attrition during the Medieval and early Modern Period. By the 18th century, and following the creation of the Kingdom of Great Britain, the Cornish language and identity had faded, largely replaced by the English language (albeit Cornish-influenced West Country dialects and Anglo-Cornish) and/or British identity. A Celtic revival during the early-20th century enabled a cultural self-consciousness in Cornwall that revitalised the Cornish language and roused the Cornish to express a distinctly Celtic heritage. The Cornish language was granted official recognition under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages in 2002, and in 2014 the Cornish people were recognised and afforded protection by the UK Government under the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities.\n\nIn the 2011 census, the population of Cornwall, including the Isles of Scilly, was estimated to be 532,300. The Cornish self-government movement has called for greater recognition of Cornish culture, politics and language, and urged that Cornish people be accorded greater status, exemplified by the call for them to be one of the listed ethnic groups in the United Kingdom Census 2011 form.\n\nBoth geographic and historical factors distinguish the Cornish as an ethnic group further supported by identifiable genetic variance between the populations of Cornwall, neighbouring Devon and England as published in a 2012 Oxford University study. Throughout medieval and Early Modern Britain, the Cornish were at some points accorded the same status as the English and Welsh and considered a separate race or nation, distinct from their neighbours, with their own language, society and customs. A process of Anglicisation between 1485 and 1700 led to the Cornish adopting English language, culture and civic identity, a view reinforced by Cornish historian A. L. Rowse who said they were gradually \"absorbed into the mainstream of English life\". Although \"decidedly modern\" and \"largely retrospective\" in its identity politics, Cornish and Celtic associations have advanced the notion of a distinct Cornish national and ethnic identity since the late 20th century. In the United Kingdom Census 2001, despite no explicit \"Cornish\" option being available, approximately 34,000 people in Cornwall and 3,500 people elsewhere in the UK—a combined total equal to nearly 7 per cent of the population of Cornwall—identified themselves as ethnic Cornish by writing this in under the \"other\" ethnicity option. The census figures show a change in identity from West to East, in Penwith 9.2 per cent identified as ethnically Cornish, in Kerrier it was 7.5 per cent, in Carrick 6.6 per cent, Restormel 6.3 per cent, North Cornwall 6 per cent, and Caradon 5.6 per cent. Weighting of the 2001 Census data gives a figure of 154,791 people with Cornish ethnicity living in Cornwall.\n\nThe Cornish have been described as \"a special case\" in England, with an \"ethnic rather than regional identity\". Structural changes to the politics of the United Kingdom, particularly the European Union and devolution, have been the cited as the main stimulus to \"a growing interest in Cornish identity and distinctiveness\" in late-20th century Britain. The British are the citizens of the United Kingdom, a people who by convention consist of four national groups: the English, Northern Irish, Scots and Welsh. In the 1990s it was said that the notion that the Cornish are to be classified as a nation comparable to the English, Irish, Scots and Welsh, \"has practically vanished from the popular consciousness\" outside Cornwall, and that, despite a \"real and substantive\" identity, the Cornish \"struggle for recognition as a national group distinct from the English\". However, in 2014, after a 15-year campaign, the UK government officially recognised the Cornish as a national minority under the Council of Europe's Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, giving the Cornish the same status as the Welsh, Scots and Irish within the UK.\n\nInhabitants of Cornwall may have multiple political allegiances, adopting mixed, dual or hyphenated identities such as \"Cornish first and British second\", \"Cornish and British and European\", or, like Phil Vickery (a rugby union prop for the England national rugby union team and British and Irish Lions), describe themselves as \"Cornish\" and \"English\". Meanwhile, another international rugby union player, Josh Matavesi, describes himself as Cornish-Fijian and Cornish not English.\n\nA survey by Plymouth University in 2000 found that 30% of children in Cornwall felt \"Cornish, not English\". A 2004 survey on national identity by the finance firm Morgan Stanley found that 44% of respondents in Cornwall saw themselves as Cornish rather than British or English. A 2008 University of Exeter study conducted in 16 towns across Cornwall found that 59% felt themselves to be Cornish and 41% felt \"More Cornish than English\", while for over a third of respondents the Cornish identity formed their primary \"national\" identity. Genealogy and family history were considered to be the chief criteria for ‘being’ Cornish, particularly among those who possessed such ties, while being born in Cornwall was also held to be important.\n\nA 2008 study by the University of Edinburgh of 15- and 16-year-old schoolchildren in Cornwall found that 58% of respondents felt themselves to be either ‘Fairly’ or ‘Very much’ Cornish. The other 42% may be the result of in-migration to the area during the second half of the twentieth century.\n\nA 2010 study by the University of Exeter into the meaning of contemporary Cornish identity across Cornwall found that there was a \"west-east distance decay in the strength of the Cornish identity.\" The study was conducted amongst the farming community as they were deemed to be the socio-professional group most objectively representative of Cornishness. All participants categorised themselves as Cornish and identified Cornish as their primary ethnic group orientation. Those in the west primarily thought of themselves as Cornish and British/Celtic, while those in the east tended to think of themselves as Cornish and English. All participants in West Cornwall who identified as Cornish and not English described people in East Cornwall, without hesitation, as equally Cornish as themselves. Those who identified as Cornish and English stressed the primacy of their Cornishness and a capacity to distance themselves from their Englishness. Ancestry was seen as the most important criterion for being categorised as Cornish, above place of birth or growing up in Cornwall. This study supports a 1988 study by Mary McArthur that had found that the meanings of Cornishness varied substantially, from local to national identity. Both studies also observed that the Cornish were less materialistic than the English. The Cornish generally saw the English, or city people, as being \"less friendly and more aggressively self-promoting and insensitive.\" The Cornish saw themselves as friendly, welcoming and caring.\n\nIn November 2010 British Prime Minister, David Cameron, said \"I think Cornish national identity is very powerful\" and that his government would \"devolve a lot of power to Cornwall – that will go to the Cornish unitary authority.\"\n\nA campaign for the inclusion of a Cornish tick-box in the nationality section of the 2011 census failed to win the support of parliament in 2009. As a consequence, posters were created by the census organisation and Cornwall Council which advised residents how they could identify themselves as Cornish by writing it in the national identity and ethnicity sections and record Cornish in the main language section. Additionally, people could record Cornwall as their country of birth.\n\nLike other identities, Cornish has an allocated census code, (06), the same as for 2001, which applied and was counted throughout Britain. People were first able to record their ethnicity as Cornish in the 2001 UK Census, and some 37,000 people did so by writing it in.\n\nA total of 83,499 people in England and Wales were described as having a Cornish national identity. 59,456 of these were described as Cornish only, 6,261 as Cornish and British, and 17,782 as Cornish and at least one other identity, with or without British. Within Cornwall the total was 73,220 (14% of the population) with 52,793 (9.9%) as Cornish only, 5,185 (1%) as Cornish and British, and 15,242 (2.9%) as Cornish and at least one other identity, with or without British.\n\nIn Scotland 467 people described themselves as having Cornish national identity. 254 with Cornish identity only, 39 as Scottish and Cornish, and 174 having Cornish identity and a least one other UK identity (excluding Scottish).\n\nSince 2006 school children in Cornwall have been able to record themselves as ethnically Cornish on the annual Schools Census (PLASC). Since then the number identifying as Cornish has risen from 24% to 46%. The Department for Education recommends that parents and guardians determine the ethnicity of children at primary schools whilst pupils at secondary schools can decide their own ethnicity.\n\n\nTraditional accounts of Cornish ancestry teach that they are descended from the Celts making them distinct from the English, many (but not all) of whom are descended from the Anglo-Saxons who colonised Great Britain from their homelands in northern Europe and drove the Celts to Britain's western and northern fringes. However, some DNA research investigating the genetic history of the British Isles suggests that three quarters of contemporary Y-chromosomes of British people—including the Cornish—originate from hunter-gatherers who settled in Atlantic Europe during the Paleolithic era, \"after the melting of the ice caps but before the land broke away from the mainland and divided into islands\". Archaeological evidence supports pre-historic human habitation in Cornwall, at least as early as the Lower Paleolithic. Although there was a separation of the British Isles from continental Europe as a consequence of the last ice age, genetic evidence indicates that the people of Great Britain broadly share a common ancestry with the Basque people who live in the Basque Country by the Pyrenees. On this basis, geneticist Stephen Oppenheimer suggests that the first settlers of Great Britain were unlikely to have spoken one of the Celtic languages, but rather an ancient tongue related to the Basque language. The next historical immigration to Great Britain occurred during the Neolithic period, interpreted by Bryan Sykes—professor of human genetics at the University of Oxford—as the arrival of the Celts from the Iberian Peninsula, and the origin of Britain's and Ireland's Celtic tribes. It is these people who are considered the progenitors of the Cornish. A study by the Wellcome Trust, led by Sir Walter Bodmer and published on Channel 4's \"Faces of Britain\" in April 2007, showed that the Cornish people have a particular variant of the Melanocortin 1 receptor gene, identifying them as Celts more closely related to the Welsh than to the English. Within the areas of the UK studied, this gene appeared in 26 per cent of the population of Orkney, 23 per cent of Devon, 21 per cent of Wales, 16 per cent of Cornwall, 13 per cent of Kent, and 11 per cent of North East England. According to a DNA survey carried out for the Royal Society and published in 2012 by Peter Donnelly, professor of statistical science at Oxford University and director of the Wellcome Trust genetics centre, Cornish people, along with the Welsh and people of Devon, were found to be among the most genetically distinct groups in Britain. Others in England and Britain were found to have a greater range of genetic ancestries, with people from Cornwall being distinct from those elsewhere in England and the neighbouring population of Devon, though overall still very closely related to the 'English' possibly due to their stronger genetic links to the tribes that arrived after the last ice age. However, a more recent study by Oxford University geneticist Professor Peter Donnelly suggests that the Cornish have DNA that is more similar to that of other English groups than to the Welsh or the Scots. Both Cornish and Devonians have similar but distinct genetic profiles which show less continental 'German' influence and more northern 'French' material than the English and Scots; all showing a similar portion of \"Nordic\" material suggesting the idea of a uniform \"Celtic\" genetic race is false.\nThroughout classical antiquity the Celts spoke Celtic languages, and formed a series of tribes, cultures and identities, notably the Picts and Gaels in the north and the Britons in the south. The Britons were themselves a divided people; although they shared the Brythonic languages, they were tribal, and divided into regional societies, and within them sub-groups. Examples of these tribal societies were the Brigantes in the north, and the Ordovices, the Demetae, the Silures and the Deceangli in the west. In the extreme southwest, what was to become Cornwall, were the Dumnonii and Cornovii, who lived in the Kingdom of Dumnonia. The Roman conquest of Britain in the 1st century introduced Romans to Britain, who upon their arrival initially recorded the Dumnonii, but later reported on the Cornovii, who were possibly a sub-group of the Dumnonii. Although the Romans colonised much of central and southern Britain, Dumnonia was \"virtually unaffected\" by the conquest; Roman rule had little or no impact on the region, meaning it could flourish as a semi- or fully independent kingdom which evidence shows was sometimes under the dominion of the kings of the Britons, and sometimes to have been governed by its own Dumnonian monarchy, either by the title of duke or king. This petty kingdom shared strong linguistic, political and cultural links with Brittany, a peninsula on continental Europe south of Cornwall inhabited by Britons; the Cornish and Breton languages were nearly indistinguishable in this period, and both Cornwall and Brittany remain dotted with dedications to the same Celtic saints.\n\nThe Sack of Rome in the year 410 prompted a complete Roman departure from Britain, and Cornwall then experienced an influx of Celtic Christian missionaries from Ireland who had a profound effect upon the early Cornish people, their culture, faith and architecture. The ensuing decline of the Roman Empire encouraged the Anglo-Saxon invasion of Britain. The Angles, Jutes, Frisii and Saxons, Germanic peoples from northern Europe, established petty kingdoms and settled in different regions of what was to become England, and parts of southern Scotland, progressively defeating the Britons in battle. The Saxons of the Kingdom of Wessex in particular were expanding their territory westwards towards Cornwall. The Cornish were frequently embattled with the West Saxons, who used their Germanic word \"walha\" (modern English: Welsh) meaning \"stranger\" or \"foreigner\", to describe their opponents, later specifying them as the \"Westwalas\" (West Welsh) or \"Cornwalas\" (the Cornish). Conflict continued until King Athelstan of England determined that the River Tamar be the formal boundary between the West Saxons and the Cornish in the year 936, making Cornwall one of the last retreats of the Britons encouraging the development of a distinct Cornish identity; Brittonic culture in Britain became confined to Cornwall, parts of Devon, North West England, South West Scotland and Wales. Although a treaty was agreed, Anglo-Saxon political influence stretched westwards until some time in the late 10th century when \"Cornwall was definitively incorporated into the Kingdom of England\".\n\nThe Norman conquest of England, which began with an invasion by the troops of William, Duke of Normandy (later, King William I of England) in 1066, resulted in the removal of the Anglo-Saxon derived monarchy, aristocracy, and clerical hierarchy and its replacement by Normans, Scandinavian Vikings from northern France and their Breton allies, who, in many cases, maintained rule in the Brittonic-speaking parts of the conquered lands. The shires of England were progressively divided amongst the companions of William I of England, who served as England's new nobility. The English would come to absorb the Normans, but the Cornish \"vigorously resisted\" their influence. At the time of the conquest, Cornwall was under the governance of Cadoc of Cornwall, the last Earl of Cornwall to be directly descended from the ancient monarchy of Cornwall. The Earldom of Cornwall had held devolved semi-sovereignty from England, but in 1067 was granted to Robert, Count of Mortain, King William I's half-brother, and ruled thereafter by an Anglo-Norman aristocracy; in the \"Domesday Book\", the record of the great survey of England completed in 1086, \"virtually all\" landowners in Cornwall \"had English names, making it impossible to be sure who was Cornish and who was English by race\". However, there was a persistent and \"continuing differentiation\" between the English and Cornish peoples during the Middle Ages, as evidenced by documents such as the 1173 charter of Truro which made explicit mention of both peoples as distinct.\n\nThe Earldom of Cornwall passed to various English nobles throughout the High Middle Ages, but in 1337 the earldom was given the status of a duchy, and Edward, the Black Prince, the first son and heir of King Edward III of England, became the first Duke of Cornwall as a means for the prince to raise his own capital. Large parts of Cornwall were owned by Edward, 1st Duke of Cornwall, and successive English Dukes of Cornwall became the largest landowners in Cornwall; The monarchy of England established two special administrative institutions in Cornwall, the first being the Duchy of Cornwall (one of only two in the Kingdom of England) and the second being the Cornish Stannary Courts and Parliaments (which governed Cornwall's tin industry). These two institutions allowed \"ordinary Cornish people to believe that they had been granted a unique constitutional status to reflect their unique cultural identity\". However, the Duchy of Cornwall gradually lost its political autonomy from England, a state which became increasingly centralised in London, and by the early-Tudor period the Cornish had begun to see themselves as \"a conquered people whose culture, liberties, and prosperity had been downgraded by the English\". This view was exacerbated in the 1490s by heavy taxation imposed by King Henry VII of England upon the impoverished Cornish to raise funds for his military campaigns against King James IV of Scotland and Perkin Warbeck, as well as Henry VII's suspension of the privileges of the Cornish Stannaries. Having provided \"more than their fair share of soldiers and sailors\" for the conflict in northern England, and feeling aggrieved at \"Cornwall's status as England's poorest county\", a popular uprising out of Cornwall ensued—the Cornish Rebellion of 1497. The rebellion was initially a political march from St Keverne to London led by Thomas Flamank and Michael An Gof, motivated by a \"mixture of reasons\"; to raise money for charity; to celebrate their community; to present their grievances to the Parliament of England, but gathered pace across the West Country as a revolt against the king.\nCornish was the most widely spoken language west of the River Tamar until around the mid-1300s, when Middle English began to be adopted as a common language of the Cornish people. As late as 1542 Andrew Boorde, an English traveller, physician and writer, wrote that in Cornwall there were two languages, \"Cornysshe\" and \"Englysshe\", but that \"there may be many men and women\" in Cornwall who could not understand English. While the Norman language was in use by much of the English aristocracy, Cornish was used as a \"lingua franca\", particularly in the remote far west of Cornwall. Many Cornish landed gentry chose mottos in the Cornish language for their coat of arms, highlighting its socially high status. However, in 1549 and following the English Reformation, King Edward VI of England commanded that the Book of Common Prayer, an Anglican liturgical text in the English language, should be introduced to all churches in his kingdom, meaning that Latin and Celtic customs and services should be discontinued. The Prayer Book Rebellion was a militant revolt in Cornwall and parts of neighbouring Devon against the Act of Uniformity 1549, which outlawed all languages from church services apart from English, and is specified as a testament to the affection and loyalty the Cornish people held for the Cornish language. In the rebellion, separate risings occurred simultaneously in Bodmin in Corwall, and Sampford Courtenay in Devon—which would both converge at Exeter, laying siege to the region's largest Protestant city. However, the rebellion was suppressed, thanks largely to the aid of foreign mercenaries in a series of battles in which \"hundreds were killed\", effectively ending Cornish as the common language of the Cornish people. The Anglicanism of the Reformation served as a vehicle for Anglicisation in Cornwall; Protestantism had a lasting cultural effect upon the Cornish by way of linking Cornwall more closely with England, while lessening political and linguistic ties with the Bretons of Brittany.\n\nThe English Civil War, a series of armed conflicts and political machinations between Parliamentarians and Royalists, polarised the populations of England and Wales. However, Cornwall in the English Civil War was a staunchly Royalist enclave, an \"important focus of support for the Royalist cause\". Cornish soldiers were used as scouts and spies during the war, for their language was not understood by English Parliamentarians. The peace that followed the close of the war led to a further shift to the English language by the Cornish people, which encouraged an influx of English people to Cornwall. By the mid-17th century the use of the Cornish language had retreated far enough west to prompt concern and investigation by antiquarians, such as William Scawen. As the Cornish language diminished the people of Cornwall underwent a process of English enculturation and assimilation, becoming \"absorbed into the mainstream of English life\".\n\nThe Industrial Revolution had a major impact upon the Cornish people. Cornwall's economy was fully integrated into England's, and mining in Cornwall, always an important source of employment and stability of the Cornish, experienced a process of industrialisation resulting in 30 per cent of Cornwall's adult population being employed by its mines. During this period, efforts were made by Cornish engineers to design steam engines with which to power water pumps for Cornish mines thus aiding the extraction of mineral ore. Industrial scale tin and copper mining operations in Cornwall melded Cornish identity with engines and heavy industry, and Cornwall's leading mining engineer, Richard Trevithick, became \"as much a part of Cornwall's heritage as any legendary giant from its Celtic past\". Trevithick's most significant success was a high-pressure steam engine used to pump water and refuse from mines, but he was also the builder of the first full-scale working railway steam locomotive. On 21 February 1804, the world's first locomotive-hauled railway journey took place as Trevithick's unnamed steam locomotive hauled a train along the tramway of the Penydarren ironworks, near Merthyr Tydfil in Wales.\n\nThe construction of the Great Western Railway during the Victorian era allowed for an influx of tourists to Cornwall from across Great Britain. Well into the Edwardian era and interwar period, Cornwall was branded as a rural retreat, a \"primitive land of magic and romance\", and as an \"earlier incarnation of Englishness, a place more English than an England ravaged by modernity\". Cornwall, the United Kingdom's only region with a subtropical-like climate, became a centre for English tourism, its coastline dominated by resort towns increasingly composed of bungalows and villas. Tourists visiting Cornwall are called \"emmets\" by locals, a Cornish language word for insects, referring to the creatures that the visitors resemble when swarming Cornwall's resorts. John Nichols Thom, or Mad Tom, (1799 – 31 May 1838) was a Cornishman self-declared messiah who, in the 19th century led the last battle to be fought on English soil, known as the Battle of Bossenden Wood. While not akin to the Cornish rebellions of the past, he did attract some Cornish support as well as mostly Kentish labourers, although his support was primarily of religious followers.\n\nIn the latter half of the 19th century Cornwall experienced rapid deindustrialisation, with the closure of mines in particular considered by the Cornish to be both an economic and cultural disaster. This, coupled with the rise of Romantic nationalism in Europe inspired and influenced a Celtic Revival in Cornwall, a social, linguistic and artistic movement interested in Cornish medieval ethnology. This Revivalist upsurge investigated Cornwall's pre-industrial culture, using the Cornish language as the \"principal badge of [Cornish] nationality and ethnic kinship”. The first effective revival of Cornish began in 1904 when Henry Jenner, a Celtic language enthusiast, published his book \"Handbook of the Cornish Language\". His orthography, Unified Cornish, was based on Cornish as it was spoken in the 18th century, although his pupil Robert Morton Nance later steered the revival more towards the Middle Cornish that had been used in the 16th century, before the language became influenced by English.\n\nThe visit of King George IV to Scotland in 1822 reinvigorated Scottish national identity, melding it with romanticist notions of tartan, kilts and the Scottish Highlands. As Pan-Celticism gathered pace in the early 20th century, Cornishman L. C. R. Duncombe-Jewell and the Cowethas Kelto-Kernuak (a Cornish language interest group) asserted the use of Cornish kilts and tartans as a \"national dress ... common to all Celtic countries\". In 1924 the Federation of Old Cornwall Societies was formed to facilitate, preserve and maintain Celticity in Cornwall, followed by the similar Gorseth Kernow in 1928, and the formation of the Cornish nationalist political party Mebyon Kernow in 1951. Increased interest and communication across the Celtic nations in Celtic languages and culture during the 1960s and 1970s spurred on the popularisation of the Cornish self-government movement. Since devolution in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, enthusiasts for Cornish culture have pressed for the Cornish language to be taught formally in Cornish schools, while Cornish nationalists have demanded greater political autonomy for Cornwall, for example that it be constituted as the United Kingdom's fifth consistuent country with its own Cornish Assembly.\n\nThe Cornish people are concentrated in Cornwall, but after the Age of Discovery in the early modern period were involved in the British colonisation of the Americas and other transcontinental and transatlantic migrations. Initially, the number of migrants was comparatively small, with those who left Cornwall typically settling in North America or else amongst the ports and plantations of the Caribbean.\n\nIn the first half of the 19th century, the Cornish people were leaders in tin and copper smelting, while mining in Cornwall was the people's major occupation. Increased competition from Australia, British Malaya and Bolivia, coupled with the depletion of mineral deposits brought about an economic decline for Cornish mining lasting half a century, and prompting mass human migration from Cornwall. In each decade from 1861 to 1901, \"around 20% of the Cornish male population migrated abroad\"—three times that of the average of England and Wales—and totalling over a quarter of a million people lost to emigration between 1841 and 1901. There was a displacement of skilled Cornish engineers, farmers, merchants, miners and tradesmen, but their commercial and occupational expertise, particularly in hard rock mining, was highly valued by the communities they met. Within Great Britain, Cornish families were attracted from Cornwall to North East England—particularly on Teesside—to partake in coal mining as a means to earn wealth by using their mining skill. This has resulted in a concentration of Cornish names on and around Teesside that persists into the 21st century.\n\nLarge numbers of the 19th century Cornish emigrants eventually returned to Cornwall, whilst the rate of emigration from Cornwall declined after World War I. However, the global connections of the remaining Cornish diaspora, which is concentrated in English-speaking countries such as Australia, Canada, South Africa and the United States, are \"very strong\". Their outreach has contributed to the international spread of Methodism, a movement within Protestant Christianity that was popular with the Cornish people at the time of their mass migration. \"Cousin Jacks\" is a nickname for the overseas Cornish, thought to derive from the practice of Cornishmen asking if job vacancies could be filled by their cousin named Jack in Cornwall.\n\nFrom the beginning of Australia's colonial period until after the Second World War, people from the United Kingdom made up a large majority of people coming to Australia, meaning that many Australian-born people can trace their origins to Britain. The Cornish people in particular were actively encouraged to emigrate to Australia following the demise of Cornish mining in the 19th century. A \"vigorous recruiting campaign\" was launched to encourage the Cornish to aid with mining in Australia because of their experience and expertise. Free passage to South Australia in particular was granted to hundreds of Cornish miners and their families, so much so, that a large Cornish community gathered in Australia's Copper Coast, and South Australia's Yorke Peninsula became known as \"Little Cornwall”. It has been estimated between 1837 and 1840, 15 per cent of all assisted migrants to South Australia were Cornish.\n\nCornish settlement impacted upon social, cultural and religious life throughout the history of South Australia. Cornish identity was embraced strongly in the Yorke Peninsula, but also in the more outlying mining towns of Kapunda and Burra, where Cornish miners constituted a sizeable community. Methodism, was the main form of religious practice for the Cornish. Methodist sensibilities were held with strong conviction by the migrant Cornish in a direct rivalry with Catholic Irish people in Australia. The Kernewek Lowender is the largest Cornish festival in the world, held in the Kadina, Moonta and Wallaroo towns on the Yorke Peninsula, which attracts tens of thousands of visitors bi-annually.\n\nEuropean fishing ventures in and around Newfoundland during the 16th century were the earliest Cornish activity in what was to become Canada. However, permanent settlement by the Cornish across the Atlantic Ocean was rare until at least the 19th century. The British colonisation of the Americas encouraged additional migration of the Cornish to the Canadas, particularly by those who served in Great Britain's Royal Navy. The creation of the colony of British North America spurred more people from Cornwall to settle in North America; they were registered as English migrants. Many Cornish (and other West Country) immigrants who had been agricultural labourers settled in an area of what is now South Central Ontario in what were the counties of Northumberland, Durham and Ontario, ranging from the towns of Port Hope and Cobourg in the east, to Whitby in the west and to the north ends of those counties.\n\nIn 1825 a band of 60 Cornishmen left Falmouth for Mineral del Monte in central Mexico with of mining machinery with which to apply their mining skill and technologies to resuscitate Mexico's ailing silver mining industry after the neglect caused by the Mexican War of Independence. Following their sea voyage they attempted to dock at Veracruz but were forced away by the Spanish to a beach at Mocambo from where they hauled their machinery through jungle and swamp to Santa Fe. During this haul through the jungle, the Cornishmen and their Mexican helpers fell victim to yellow fever, resulting in 30 Cornish and 100 Mexican fatalities. The fever forced the survivors to abandon their equipment and head inland up into the mountains to Xalapa to try and escape the mosquitos for three months, until the end of the rainy season. Once the rainy season closed the Cornish and Mexican miners continued their \"Great Trek\" to Mineral del Monte, transporting their machinery to an altitude of above sea level and arriving at their destination on 1 May 1826. Following their arrival, the Cornish community flourished and stayed in central Mexico until the Mexican Revolution in 1910. Although the Cornish community in Mexico broadly returned to Cornwall, they left a cultural legacy; Cornish pasties, Cornish mining museums and a Cornish Mexican Cultural Society are all part of the local heritage and tradition in and around Mineral del Monte.\n\nThe Witwatersrand Gold Rush of 1886 encouraged large numbers of Cornish miners to migrate to the South African Republic. Although an international gold rush, the Cornish overwhelmingly formed the skilled labour force in the Witwatersrand, until the outbreak of the Second Boer War prompted a retreat.\n\nThe discovery of lead ore and copper in North America prompted an influx of Cornish miners to the continent, particularly around the Upper Mississippi River. By the early 19th century Cornish people were present in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan—particularly the mining town of Ishpeming. Additional waves of Cornish migrants followed the California Gold Rush of the mid-19th century; in the 1890s it was estimated that in California's Grass Valley, over 60 per cent of the population was Cornish. It has a tradition of carols stemming from the Cornish who settled the area as gold miners in the 19th century. The carols have become \"the identity of the town\", some of the members of the Grass Valley Cornish Carol Choir are descendants of the original Cornish settlers.\n\nMost migratory Cornish to the United States were classified as English or British, meaning that the precise number of Cornish Americans is difficult to estimate. The aggregate number of immigrants from Cornwall to the United States before World War I is suggested to be around 100,000.\n\nThe survival of a distinct Cornish culture has been attributed to Cornwall's geographic isolation. Contemporaneously, the underlying notion of Cornish culture is that it is distinct from the culture of England, despite its anglicisation, and that it is instead part of a Celtic tradition. According to American academic Paul Robert Magocsi, modern-day Cornish activists have claimed several Victorian era inventions including the Cornish engine, Christmas carols, rugby football and brass bands as part of this Cornish tradition. Cornish cultural tradition is most strongly associated with the people's most historical occupation, mining, an aspect of Cornish history and culture that has influenced its cuisine, symbols and identity.\n\nCornwall has its own tradition of Christian saints, derived from Celtic extraction, that have given rise to localised dedications. Saint Piran is the 5th century Christian abbot, supposedly of Irish origin, who is patron saint of both tin miners and Cornwall. According to popular mythology, Piran, an Irish scholar who studied Christianity in Ancient Rome was to be drowned in the Irish Sea by the High Kings of Ireland, but instead floated across to Perranporth in Cornwall by the will of God to preach the ministry of Jesus. Saint Piran's Flag, a centred white cross on a black field, was described as the \"Standard of Cornwall\" in 1838 and was re-introduced by Celtic Revivalists thereafter as a county flag of Cornwall. It has been seized upon by the Cornish people as a symbol of their identity, displayed on cars and flying from buildings including those of Cornwall Council. St Piran's Day is an annual patronal fête, and the pre-eminent Cornish festival celebrating Cornish culture and history on 5 March.\n\nThe Cornish language is derived from the Brythonic branch of the Insular Celtic languages. It is closely related to the Breton language, and to a lesser extent shares commonalities with the Welsh language, although they are not mutually intelligible. The language functioned as a community language in Cornwall until a language shift to the English language was completed during the late 18th century. The demise of the Cornish language is attributed to English cultural influence, particularly the political and religious dominance of the English Reformation and the Act of Uniformity 1549 which outlawed all church services within the Kingdom of England that were not in English. The exact date of the death of using the Cornish language is unclear and disputed, but popularly it is claimed that the last monolingual Cornish speaker was Dolly Pentreath, a Mousehole resident who died in 1777.\n\nThe revival of Cornish began in 1904 when Henry Jenner, a Celtic language enthusiast, published his book \"Handbook of the Cornish Language\". He based his work on Cornish as it was spoken in the 18th century, although his pupil Robert Morton Nance, with his orthography, Unified Cornish, later steered the revival more towards the Middle Cornish that had been used in the 16th century, before the language became more heavily influenced by English. This set the tone for the next few decades; as the revival gained pace, learners of the language disagreed on which style of Cornish to use, and a number of competing orthographies—Unified Cornish, Unified Cornish Revised, Modern Cornish, Kernewek Kemmyn—were in use by the end of the 20th century. A standard written form was agreed in 2008.\n\nCornish is a restored and living modern language, but most of its speakers are enthusiasts, persons who have learned the language through private study. Cornish speakers are geographically dispersed, meaning there is no part of Cornwall where it is spoken as a community language. As of 2009, it is taught in fifty primary schools, although regular broadcast in Cornish is limited to a weekly bilingual programme on BBC Radio Cornwall. Daily life in Cornwall therefore is conducted in the English language, albeit with some regional peculiarities.\n\n\"Legends of the Fall\", a novella by American author Jim Harrison, detailing the lives of a Cornish American family in the early 20th century, contains several Cornish language terms. These were also included in the Academy Award winning film of the same name starring Anthony Hopkins as Col. William Ludlow and Brad Pitt as Tristan Ludlow.\n\nEarly medieval Cornwall was associated with the Matter of Britain, a national myth recounting a legendary Celtic history of Brittonic warriors, including King Arthur. The Matter of Britain was supported by texts such as the \"Historia Regum Britanniae\", a pseudohistorical account of the history of the ancient Britons, written in the mid-12th century by Geoffrey of Monmouth. The \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" chronicled the lives of legendary kings of the Britons in a narrative spanning a time of two thousand years, beginning with the Trojans founding the ancient British nation and continuing until the Anglo-Saxon invasion of Britain in the 5th century forced the Celtic Britons to the west coast, namely Wales and Cornwall. Although broadly thought of as a work of fiction, Geoffrey of Monmouth's work had a lasting effect upon the identity of the Cornish. His \"historical construct\" characterised the ancient Britons as heroes, which later helped Celtic revivalists to redefine Cornishness as an identity closely related to ancient heroic Celtic folklore.\n\nAnother strand of Cornish folklore is derived from tales of seafaring pirates and smugglers who thrived in and around Cornwall from the early modern period through to the 19th century. Cornish pirates exploited both their knowledge of the Cornish coastline as well as its sheltered creeks and hidden anchorages. For many fishing villages, loot and contraband provided by pirates supported a strong and secretive underground economy in Cornwall.\n\nLegendary creatures that appear in Cornish folklore include buccas, knockers and piskies. Tales of these creatures are thought to have developed as supernatural explanations for the frequent and deadly cave-ins that occurred during 18th-century Cornish tin mining, or else a creation of the oxygen-starved minds of exhausted miners who returned from the underground.\n\nCeltic crosses, many dating from between the 7th and 15th centuries, are found in Cornwall and have been used as inspiration in modern and contemporary Cornish visual arts. In the 1780s, John Opie was the first Cornish-born painter to gain widespread attention; his work was exhibited at the Royal Academy and he was described by Joshua Reynolds as \"like Caravaggio and Velázquez in one\". Artists who appreciated the quality of Cornwall's natural light, such as J. M. W. Turner, began to visit, with more following after the opening of the Great Western Railway, including Whistler and Sickert. Stanhope Forbes and Frank Bramley settled in Cornwall in the 1880s, establishing the Newlyn School of painting \"en plein air\". By the 1920s, the ceramicist Bernard Leach was established at St Ives, and the St Ives School for abstract artists formed there, influenced by naive painters such as Alfred Wallis, and involving the work of Ben Nicholson, his wife Barbara Hepworth, Naum Gabo and Patrick Heron.\n\nAnciently, the religion of the Cornish Britons was Celtic polytheism, a pagan, animistic faith, assumed to be led by Druids in full or in part. Early Christianity is thought to have existed in Cornwall during the 1st century, but limited to individual travellers and visitors, possibly including Priscillian, a Galician theologian who may have been exiled to the Isles of Scilly. Celtic Christianity was introduced to Cornwall in the year 520 by Saint Petroc, a Brython from the kingdom of Glywysing, and other missionaries from Wales, as well as by Gaelic monks and holy women from Ireland; this \"formative period\" has left a legacy of granite high cross monuments throughout Cornwall. Dedications to many different Cornish saints can also be traced to this period. In the Middle Ages, Roman Catholicism was dominant in Cornwall, and even in the 17th century the Cornish were \"fervently Roman Catholic\", slow to accept the Protestant Reformation, according to some scholars. The adoption of Anglicanism was, eventually, near-universal in Cornwall and facilitated the anglicisation of the Cornish people. A variety of dissenting congregations such as the Quakers and Baptists were to be found in certain districts. Through a combination of tours of Cornwall by John Wesley, rural isolation and compatibility with Cornish tastes and sensibilities, Methodism, an evangelical revival movement within the Church of England, became the form of Christianity practised by the majority of the population all over Cornwall during the 19th century. During this time other kinds of Methodist churches appeared such as the Bible Christians and there were also Evangelical and Anglo-Catholic revivals within the Church of England.\n\nCornish cuisine is a regional variety of British cuisine, strongly rooted in a tradition of using local produce, which is used to create relatively simple dishes. Most prominent in Cornish cuisine is the pasty (sometimes known as the Cornish pasty) made from diced beef, potato, onion and swede (commonly called 'turnip' by the Cornish), enclosed within a pastry crust and then baked. One idea of its origins suggests that it evolved as a portable lunch for Cornish miners, the crust serving as a disposable handle that could be held by a miner's hand without soiling the filling. Fish was an important element of the Cornish diet, but international commercial fishing was also well established by the 16th century, and tons of pilchards were exported from Cornwall to France, Italy and Spain every year. Stargazy pie is an occasional festive Cornish dish with the heads of fish standing on their tails, originally pilchards, piercing a pastry crust. The saffron bun, also known as the tea treat bun, is a sweet bread with its origins in Cornwall.\n\nWith its comparatively small, rural population, major contribution by the Cornish to national sport in the United Kingdom has been limited. There are no teams affiliated to the Cornwall County Football Association that play in the Football League of England and Wales, and the Cornwall County Cricket Club plays as one of the minor counties of English cricket. Viewed as an \"important identifier of ethnic affiliation\", rugby union has become a sport strongly tied with notions of Cornishness, and since the 20th century, rugby union in Cornwall has emerged as one of the most popular spectator and team sports in Cornwall, with professional Cornish rugby footballers being described as a \"formidable force\", \"naturally independent, both in thought and deed, yet paradoxically staunch English patriots whose top players have represented England with pride and passion\". In 1985, sports journalist Alan Gibson made a direct connection between love of rugby in Cornwall and the ancient parish games of hurling and wrestling that existed for centuries before rugby officially began.\n\nCornish wrestling (also known as Wrasslin') is a regional, folk style of grappling or martial arts. The Cornish Wrestling Association was formed in 1923, to standardise the rules of the sport and to promote Cornish wrestling throughout Cornwall and the world. Together with Cornish hurling (a localised form of medieval football), Wrasslin' has been promoted as a distinctly Celtic game, tied closely with Cornish identity.\n\nSurfing was popularised in Cornwall during the late 20th century, and has since become readily associated with Cornishness. The waves around the Cornish coastline are created by low pressure systems from the Atlantic Ocean which unleash powerful swells eastwards creating multiple, excellent surfing conditions in some parts of the coast of Cornwall. Newquay, one of Britain's \"premier surfing towns\", regularly hosts world championship surfing events.\n\nThe politics of Cornwall take place within a wider national political framework of a constitutional monarchy, in which the United Kingdom's monarch is head of state and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is the head of government, and the supranational framework of the European Union. Cornish politics are marked by a long tradition of Liberalism.\n\nImportant historical institutions were the Duchy of Cornwall and the Cornish Stannary Courts and Parliaments. The Stannary court administered equity, through special laws and legal exemptions, for all matters relating to the tin mines and tin trade in Cornwall. Cornish miners were effectively exempt from the jurisdiction of the law courts at Westminster, except \"in such cases as should affect land, life or limb\". The ancient privileges of the Stannary Courts and Parliaments were confirmed by successive Royal Charters in the Middle Ages, including those administered by Kings John, Edward I and Edward III of England. As the tin mines of Cornwall lost their economic importance during the 18th and 19th centuries, so the Stannary institutions lost political power. The last Stannary parliament was held at Truro in 1752, and continued, by adjournments, until 11 September 1753.\n\nAs in the rest of Great Britain, the Liberal Party dominated Cornish politics during the 19th century, although Socialism gained limited support in western Cornwall, and the Labour Party won preference after World War I. Nationalism (or regionalism) in Cornwall traces its roots to the Irish Home Rule bills of the late 19th century, and is represented by the Cornish self-government movement, a political action group that is predominantly organised to promote Cornwall as the national homeland of the Cornish, campaign for devolution, and win it the status as a fifth country within the UK rather than outright separatism. More \"militant\" variants of Cornish nationalism however claim that because of historical constitutional peculiarities regarding the status of Cornwall, the law of the European Union does or should not have jurisdiction over Cornwall until Cornish sovereignty is recognised. Popularisation of Cornish nationalism is attributed to a Celtic cultural revival in Cornwall which itself began with a newed interested in the Cornish language in the 1920s. The revival of the Cornish language encouraged a parallel revival of Celtic traditions, which by the 1970s had spurred on Cornish nationalism. The United Kingdom's entry into the European Economic Community in 1973 prompted claims that the Cornish should be granted their own devolved national assembly—the Cornish Assembly—comparable to that of the National Assembly for Wales. Mebyon Kernow is a left-wing political party based in Cornwall, founded in 1951. Its main objective is attaining greater autonomy for Cornwall through the establishment of a legislative Cornish Assembly. As at 2009 Mebyon Kernow has no Members of Parliament elected to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, and in the United Kingdom local elections, 2009 received 4 per cent of votes to elect councillors to Cornwall Council, behind the Conservative Party (34 per cent), Liberal Democrats (28 per cent), and Independents (23 per cent) Since the 2009 structural changes to local government in England, Cornwall Council has been a unitary authority, serving as the sole executive, deliberative, and legislative body responsible for local policy, setting council tax, and allocating budgets.\n\nFollowing the Cornwall Council election in May 2013, the council remained as \"no overall control\", with the Independent politicians becoming the largest grouping on the council through a modest gain of councillors from the previous election. The Liberal Democrats remained the second largest party after losing 2 councillors and the Conservatives slipped to third after losing over a third of their councillors. The Labour Party (+8), UKIP (+6), and the Green Party (+1) all gained seats, with UKIP and the Greens entering Cornwall Council for the first time. Mebyon Kernow had 6 councilors prior to the election, having added 2 since the 2009 election, their total following the election was reduced to 4.\n\nIn the 2015 general election all Cornish seats were won by the Conservatives. This was repeated in the 2017 general election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31571922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31571922", "title": "D. O. Chaoke", "text": "D. O. Chaoke\n\nDular Osor Chaoke (; born 1958) is a Chinese linguist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. His primary area of study is on the Tungusic languages, especially his native Evenki language.\n\nChaoke was born in Nantun (南屯), Evenk Autonomous Banner in northeastern Inner Mongolia. \"Osor\" is the personal name of his father, while \"Dular\" is that of his ancestors, i.e. surname. He grew up speaking Evenki at home and attending a Mongolian-medium school, but says he did not become fully fluent in Mandarin Chinese until he graduated from high school.\n\nAfter his high school graduation, Chaoke spent some years as a herder; he then became part of the \"Class of 1978\" (those who took the first offering of the National Higher Education Entrance Examination after it was reinstated that year) and with his results attained admission to the Central University for Nationalities (Minzu University of China) Department of Linguistics. He wrote his senior thesis on the structure of the Evenki language.\n\nChaoke is married to Wang Lizhen (汪丽珍), who is of Manchu ethnicity. The rest of his family are also highly educated, with four doctorates among them; his younger sister Kalina did her Ph.D. in anthropology at the Central University for Nationalities, while his younger brother Chogja did his at Chiba University in Chiba, Japan.\n\nFollowing his graduation, Chaoke took up a position as a researcher at his alma mater in 1982. In 1988, he received a Japanese government scholarship, and departed his home country for Japan to enroll in a doctoral program at the Tokyo University of Foreign Studies. He quickly completed his coursework there and began work on his thesis, and also began extending his impressive publication record to Japanese, with ten papers and two books. In total from 1982 to 2006 he published 120 papers and eighteen books, a total output estimated at roughly six million characters.\n\nOutside of academia, Chaoke has served as a representative to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh National People's Congresses. He saved a portion of the money from his Japanese government scholarship, and upon his return to China used it to establish an \"Evenk Ethnic Culture Village\" in the Evenk Autonomous Banner.\n"}
{"id": "40697132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40697132", "title": "Dick Guidry", "text": "Dick Guidry\n\nRichard P. Guidry, known as Dick Guidry (September 22, 1929 – March 26, 2014) was a businessman from Galliano, Louisiana, who was a Democrat former member of the Louisiana House of Representatives for Lafourche Parish. He is considered the youngest member ever elected to the Louisiana House.\n\nOn February 1, 2014, less than two months before his death, Guidry and seven others were inducted into the Louisiana Political Museum and Hall of Fame in Winnfield. In the same ceremony, Guidry's state senate colleague, Harvey Peltier, Jr., of Thibodaux, received posthumous induction.\n\nThe Hall of Fame claims that Guidry was elected to the House by a margin of seventeen votes in 1952, when he was twenty-three. He served from Lafourche Parish from 1952 to 1956.\n\nFrancis Dugas, a lawyer from Thibodaux, held a House seat from Lafourche Parish from 1956 to 1960. Guidry thereafter took office in May 1964 and left the House permanently in 1976 after three more terms. In the first ever nonpartisan blanket primary held on November 1, 1975, Guidry did not run again. In his last term from 1972 to 1976, he served alongside future U.S. Representative Billy Tauzin of Louisiana's 3rd congressional district and later State Senator Leonard J. Chabert.\n\nIn 1966, Guidry and State Senator Dudley J. LeBlanc of Vermilion Parish, who made a fortune in the patent medicine Hadacol, challenged U.S. Representative Edwin E. Willis in the Democratic primary in the Third Congressional District. Willis prevailed and then defeated in the general election the Republican candidate, Hall Lyons of Lafayette, but it was Willis's last term in the seat, for he was unseated in the 1968 primary by Patrick T. Caffery.\n\nIn 1970, Representative Guidry obtained designation of the South Louisiana Tidal Water Control Levee District, signed into law that year by Governor John McKeithen. In 1978, the entity was renamed the South Lafourche Levee District. Located in Galliano, the hurricane protection system consists of forty-eight miles of ring levee, 33,400 acres within the flood protection system, six pumping stations, and total acreage of nearly 440,000.\n\nIn 1971, Guidry announced his candidacy for lieutenant governor but withdrew from consideration after he raised less than a fifth of the $500,000 that he said would be necessary to mount a competitive campaign. Another candidate for lieutenant governor, state Senator Sixty Rayburn of Bogalusa also pulled out of the race for fund-raising problems.\n\nOn April 29, 1975, in a \"personal privileges\" speech on the floor of the Louisiana House, Guidry, considered a Conservative Democrat, decried the communist takeover of the former South Vietnam. He became so outraged over the turn of fortunes against the United States in Southeast Asia that he questioned whether the country could survive until its 300th birthday. Guidry said that voters have the mentality of \"a fourteen-year-old\". He suggested that actress Jane Fonda and former Black Panthers figure Eldridge Cleaver, before the latter's conversion to conservatism, were \"re-gloating and celebrating\" the communist triumph.\n\nIn 2012, at the Former Legislators Day ceremony in the Louisiana State Capitol, Woody Jenkins, owner of the \"Central City News\" in Central in East Baton Rouge Parish, photographed many of his former colleagues, including Guidry. The photographs are posted on the Internet.\n\nGuidry owned the Jet Drive-in Theater, located on Louisiana Highway 1 in Cut Off and the Jet Cinema in Galliano. In the 1980s, the Jet Drive-In was closed because of the falling of the screen tower. For years a popular meeting place for young people, the Jet could accommodate five hundred cars, had a screen 150 feet in height, and a snack bar specializing in chili. Guidry also owned several other area theaters; the Jet became so popular that it drove most of his competitors out of business.\n\nGuidry died at the age of eighty-four on March 26, 2014.\n"}
{"id": "52180448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52180448", "title": "Dorothy Lee Bolden", "text": "Dorothy Lee Bolden\n\nDorothy Lee Bolden (October 13, 1923 – July 14, 2005) was the founder of the National Domestic Worker's Union of America and worked to fight for women's rights and bring segregation to an end. Bolden began working as a domestic worker at the age of nine. She would eventually utilize her past experiences to form the Domestic Worker's Union in Atlanta, Georgia. Through the Domestic Worker's Union, thousands of women have secured better pay and working conditions throughout the United States.\n\nDorothy Lee Bolden was born on October 13, 1923 in Atlanta, Georgia. Bolden was born to Georgia Mae Patterson Bolden and Raymond Bolden. Both of her parents provided for their family, her mother was a housekeeper and her father was a chauffeur. Early education was difficult for Bolden due to poor eyesight. After a fall that damaged her optic nerve at the age of three, she didn’t gain her vision until the age of nine. She started working at the age of nine as a domestic worker and would continue in this work for forty-nine years. Bolden went to E. P. Johnson Elementary School and then David T. Howard High School. However, she only attended ninth grade and then had to stop because she needed to financially support herself. As a young woman, she traveled to Chicago to go to a school for dress designers, but her poor eyesight hindered her education. During World War II, Bolden also worked at Sears and the National Linen Service, where she recognized the early efforts for unionization and labor rights. Martin Luther King Jr. was an early influence in Bolden’s life, who was her neighbor at the time of the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nBolden became an activist well before the re-emergence of the civil rights movement in the 1960s. In the late 1940s, Bolden refused a request from her boss, a white woman, to stay late and wash the dishes. Her boss alerted local police, who responded by taking her to a county jail for a psychiatric evaluation. In an oral history interview from 1995, Bolden recalled the severity of the incident. \"They told me I was crazy because I had talked back to a white woman, and called in some psychiatrists to prove it,\" said Bolden. \"A white woman’s word was gospel, and two psychiatrists actually thought I was crazy… This was the way you got locked up…This was the system.\"\n\nWith the help of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Bolden was able to build relationships with families all over Atlanta. Women were able to open up to Bolden about their experiences as domestic workers. Life for domestic workers was very challenging. During the 1960s, domestic workers endured 13 hour workdays and received as little as $3.50. However, in 1968, Bolden started discussions with other unions about beginning to organize a national union for domestic workers. The union helped improve the wages and working conditions of domestic workers in Atlanta and served as an example for other domestic workers all across the country. Bolden eventually gathered 13,000 women from ten different cities, benefiting from job referrals and organizations. The union helped to increase wages and working conditions for domestic workers. Also members were taught how to work out problems with their employers. Bolden became an icon in Atlanta due to all the help that she gave to domestic workers. The records of this union are kept at the organization's office and in the Southern Labor Archives at Georgia State University. Under her leadership, the National Domestic Worker's Union fundamentally influenced the treatment of domestic workers. Bolden was central to actions that increased Atlanta wages by 33% over two years and won workers' compensation and Social Security rights for all domestic workers.\n\nBolden was also responsible for registering thousands of African Americans to vote. Her work improved the living conditions of many residents throughout Atlanta. Bolden's efforts gained the attention of the Nixon Administration and she was appointed to an advisory committee on social services and welfare.\n\nBolden married her first husband in 1941 but that ended in divorce. Later on, she married Abram Thompson and they had six children together- Frank, Avon Butts, Dorthy Ingram, Altenmiece Knight, Abram and Anthony. To support her family, Bolden had to work in many different jobs including the Greyhound bus station, Linen Supply Company, Sears Roebuck, and Railroad Express. Although Bolden was a domestic worker, she did not accept jobs that did not involve child care. She loved working with children and seeing them develop into young adults. Bolden died in Atlanta on July 14, 2005.\n"}
{"id": "23122601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23122601", "title": "Douglas Schoen", "text": "Douglas Schoen\n\nDouglas Schoen (born June 27, 1953) is a Jewish American political analyst, author, lobbyist, and commentator.\n\nSchoen attended Horace Mann School in New York City. While still a high school student, he canvassed the Upper West Side for Dick Morris. He graduated from Harvard College (\"magna cum laude\") and Harvard Law School. Schoen went to high school with Mark Penn and then worked together with him on \"The Harvard Crimson\".\n\nSchoen currently serves on the Advisory Council of Represent.Us, a nonpartisan anti-corruption organization.\n\nWhile still at Harvard, Schoen first worked as an independent political consultant for Louis Gigante, who ran for New York City Council in 1973.\n\nIn 1977, he founded the political consulting firm Penn, Schoen & Berland with political strategists Mark Penn. Michael Berland joined the firm in 1987. Schoen worked for the political campaigns of politicians including Jay Rockefeller, Richard Shelby and Evan Bayh. Following the 1994 United States elections, President Bill Clinton hired Dick Morris, who brought on Schoen and Penn. Schoen worked on the 1996 campaign as well in survey analysis. Schoen also began doing corporate work beginning in the 1980s.\n\nIn 2000, Ukrainian steel oligarch Victor Pinchuk hired Schoen on a $40,000 per month retainer. In 2004, Schoen introduced Pinchuk to Hillary Clinton. He also did work for the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign, 2008 and later became associated with the People United Means Action movement of disaffected Clinton supporters who refused to support Barack Obama. Schoen was a consultant for Jeff Greene in the 2010 Florida Senate election.\n\nThe firm was sold to WPP plc in 2001. Schoen left the firm later to work for news media. In 2010, Schoen hosted a fundraiser for Republican congressional candidate John Gomez.\n\nPinchuk donated $13.1 million to the Clinton Foundation in the years after Schoen's introduction. In 2011, Schoen registered as a foreign agent lobbying on behalf of Pinchuk. Between September 2011 and November 2012, Schoen arranged nearly a dozen meetings between Pinchuk and senior State Department officials, including Melanne Verveer. In September 2015, Pinchuk donated $150,000 to the Donald J. Trump Foundation in exchange for a 20-minute video appearance by Donald Trump shown at a policy conference that year in Kiev. Michael Cohen solicited Schoen for the donation from Pinchuk, which was the largest outside donation the Trump Foundation received that year. In March 2017, former Trump aid Monica Crowley registered as a foreign agent working for Pinchuk under Schoen's direction.\n\nSchoen became a political analyst for Fox News and a columnist for Newsmax. In 2010, he authored a book on the Tea Party movement with Scott Rasmussen.\n\nSchoen has identified as a member of the Democratic party, but has frequently criticized the party and taken positions on various political topics at odds with the party's views. Schoen's critics have called his identification as a Democrat \"phony\" and calculated to help his Fox news career. Steve Benen called Schoen the quintessential \"Fox News Democrat\" and said he is \"actively hostile towards [Democrats] and the party’s agenda.\"\n\nSchoen says that lower taxes would be a successful Democratic strategy, opposed President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act, and said that President Obama should not run for reelection in 2012.\n\nHe has stated that President Obama divided the country along partisan lines, and said that the Affordable Care Act has been a \"disaster\" for the Democratic Party.\n\nSchoen has been critical of the Occupy Wall Street protest movement. In a \"Wall Street Journal\" op-ed, he wrote, \"President Obama and the Democratic leadership are making a critical error in embracing the Occupy Wall Street movement—and it may cost them the 2012 election.\" He believes that the protesters represent \"an unrepresentative segment of the electorate that believes in radical redistribution of wealth, civil disobedience and, in some instances, violence,\" and that their common bond is \"a deep commitment to left-wing policies.\" Schoen believes that the Democratic Party should not appeal to voters who support taxing oil companies and the rich, but rather to voters in the middle who want lower taxes. On October 30, 2016, Schoen pulled his support of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, citing his concern of a \"constitutional crisis\" due to Secretary Clinton's email scandal if elected.\n\n"}
{"id": "58790689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58790689", "title": "Enda Bowe", "text": "Enda Bowe\n\nEnda Bowe is an Irish photographer that lives and works in London. His publications include \"Kilburn Cherry\" (2013) and \"At Mirrored River\" (2016).\n\nBowe was joint winner of the SOLAS Ireland award in 2015 and won second prize in the 2018 Taylor Wessing Photographic Portrait Prize. He has had solo exhibitions in Carlow and in Dublin.\n\n\"Kilburn Cherry\" is a collection of photographs of cherry blossoms in Kilburn, London, traditionally the home of the Irish diaspora. The work was inspired by Japanese renku poetry. Bowe has said the \"bold appearance of the cherry blossom seemed to play with ideas of hopefulness and revival\".\n\n\"At Mirrored River\" was made over four years in an unspecified Irish midlands town. It contains portraits of young people at a point of transition to adulthood, depicted in their home setting of housing estates, supermarkets and social functions, juxtaposed with images of the town and its surrounding landscape.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55070386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55070386", "title": "Family tree of the Malaysian monarchs", "text": "Family tree of the Malaysian monarchs\n\nThe following is a family tree of the monarchs of Malaysia.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "39936435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39936435", "title": "Francis Lawrence videography", "text": "Francis Lawrence videography\n\nThis is a list of the works that American filmmaker and producer Francis Lawrence has been involved with. \n"}
{"id": "5411507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5411507", "title": "Frank Costa", "text": "Frank Costa\n\nFrank Aloysius Costa (born 1938 in Geelong) is an entrepreneur and philanthropist. The Geelong native has been a prominent figure in the region for more than four decades, after inheriting the family's produce business in the late 1950s. The company has become largest service wholesaler of fruit & vegetables in the country with operations in five major states.\n\nIn 1998, he became president of the Geelong Football Club.\n\nCosta was the eldest of five sons born to Sicilian immigrants that moved to Australia in the 1880s. His great-uncle established the Geelong Covent Garden in 1888 – a produce grocery which he ran until the 1920s, at which time he turned it over to Costa's father.\n\nWhen Costa was 21, he (along with his brother Adrian) convinced his father to sell the business to them. Costa successfully grew the business with help from his brother, as they made forays into wholesaling. Although Adrian died in 1972 as a result of an automobile accident, and there were a few business blunders along the way – including the failed development of a state-of-the-art warehouse – the remaining Costa brothers were able to keep the business afloat. By the 1980s, the company had an annual turnover to the tune of A$100 million.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Costa's fruit operation; Costa Logistics, was forced to co-operate with the Melbourne underworld.\n\nAs of 2006, the company has 800 employees, and a turnover in excess of 800 million. Its head office is an ex-church purchased by the Costa Group and converted into modern offices, located in Myers Street, Geelong.\n\nCosta is the subject of a recent biography, with a foreword by eminent historian Geoffrey Blainey and references to Geelong identities, the Geelong Football Club, and Italian immigrants in Geelong.\n\nAccording to a 2004 poll, Costa held first place on the list of the regions \"Movers and Shakers.\"\" It was also a year that saw him (out of frustration) publicly urge the authorities to keep its promise of developing a recycling and irrigation facility in the Werribee region.\n\nFrank Costa is Patron of the Geelong Volunteer Resource Centre and the Geelong Volunteering Network.\n\nHis push for the recycling/irrigation plant is one of many events has caused some to raise conflict of interest concerns, as his company was apt to obtain a substantial benefit from the project. In addition to being a Committee for Geelong board member and being president of the Geelong Football Club, Costa has been involved in some of the most prominent development projects being touted for the region. These include the development in North Geelong near the Ford site and at Point Richards near Portarlington.\n\nIn early 2006, Costa was embroiled in controversy due to his undisclosed financial support of political campaigns.\n\nAt the 1997 Queen's Birthday Honours, Costa was awarded the Order of Australia for service to youth and to the community of Geelong. 18 years later at the 2015 Australia Day Honours, Costa was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia for distinguished service to the community of Geelong through ongoing roles and contributions to a range of sports, business, religious, medical, educational and social welfare organisations. Costa was also awarded the Centenary Medal and the Australian Sports Medal in 2001 for service to the Barwon community and for services to Australia football, respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "18541648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18541648", "title": "Hajj Sayyah", "text": "Hajj Sayyah\n\nMirza Mohammad Ali (Persian: میرزا محمد علی), better known as Hajj Sayyah (Persian: حاج سياح \"the traveler\", 1836–1925), was a famous Iranian American world traveler and political activist.\n\nHe is the first Iranian to obtain American citizenship. According to a decree issued by the District Court of the 12th Judicial District of the State of California, he naturalized on May 26, 1875.\n\nHajj Sayyah was born in 1836 in the town of Mahallat, Iran. His studies exposed him at a young age to modern and democratic ideas that were then l spreading throughout parts of the world. The stark difference that he observed between the treatment suffered by most Persia under their autocratic rulers and those ideas he studied inspired him to see the rest of the world.\n\nAt the age of 23, Hajj Sayyah embarked on a remarkable journey around the globe, and which would last for nearly 18 years. He began his travels by wandering throughout Central Asia and Europe for more than six years. Often, he traveled alone and in poverty.\n\nThe motivation for his travels was his thirst for knowledge and spiritual strength. He wanted to learn as much as he could about the world and how other people lived to bring those ideas back to Persia. As a result of his observations throughout his travels, he concluded that human beings are supposed to live in reasonably-humane societies and, to enjoy basic human rights.\n\nHajj Sayyah came to the United States through New York City. During his ten-year stay in the country, he met with many prominent personalities such as US President Ulysses Grant on more than one occasion. His travels across the United States eventually took him to San Francisco, where he spent several months.\n\nIn the course of studying Hajj Sayyahʼs life, Dr. Ali Ferdowsi recently discovered through State Department documents that Hajj Sayyah had become an US citizen on May 26, 1875, the first Iranian to do so.\n\nUpon returning to Persia in July 1877, Hajj Sayyah became politically active and was imprisoned for having instigated a clandestine letter writing campaign to the monarch and clergy regarding the unbearable living conditions in Persia. After his release, fearing further persecution he sought the protection of the US legation in Tehran. That move puzzled many Persians, who wondered why he felt that the US government would protect him.\n\nHajj Sayyah went on to play a major role in the Constitutional Revolution of 1906 in Persia, and he remained active until his death in 1925, at the age of 89.\n"}
{"id": "587936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=587936", "title": "Hans Küng", "text": "Hans Küng\n\nHans Küng (; born 19 March 1928) is a Swiss Catholic priest, theologian, and author. Since 1995 he has been President of the (\"Stiftung Weltethos\"). He is notable for his rejection of the doctrine of papal infallibility. Although Küng is not officially allowed to teach Catholic theology, his priestly faculties have not been revoked. In 1979, he had to leave the Catholic faculty, but remained at the University of Tübingen as a professor of ecumenical theology, serving as an emeritus professor since 1996.\n\nKüng was born in Sursee, Canton of Lucerne. He studied philosophy and theology at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome and was ordained in 1954. He continued his education in various European cities, including the Sorbonne.\n\nIn 1960, he was appointed professor of theology at Eberhard Karls university, Tübingen, Germany. Like his colleague Joseph Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI), in 1962 he was appointed \"peritus\" by Pope John XXIII, serving as an expert theological advisor to members of the Second Vatican Council until its conclusion in 1965. At Küng's instigation, the Catholic faculty at Tübingen appointed Ratzinger as professor of dogmatic theology.\n\nIn a 1963 tour of the United States, Küng gave the lecture \"The Church and Freedom\", receiving an interdict from The Catholic University of America, but an honorary doctorate from St. Louis University. He accepted an invitation to visit John F. Kennedy at the White House.\n\nKüng's doctoral thesis, \"Justification. La doctrine de Karl Barth et une réflexion catholique\", was finally published in English in 1964 as \"Justification: The Doctrine of Karl Barth\". It located a number of areas of agreement between Barthian and Catholic theologies of justification, concluding that the differences were not fundamental and did not warrant a division in the Church. (The book included a letter from Karl Barth attesting that he agreed with Küng's representation of his theology.) In this book Küng argued that Barth, like Martin Luther, overreacted against the Catholic Church which, despite its imperfections, has been and remains the body of Christ.\n\nIn the late 1960s, he became the first major Roman Catholic theologian since the late 19th century Old Catholic Church schism to publicly reject the doctrine of papal infallibility, in particular in his book \"Infallible? An Inquiry\" (1971). Consequently, on 18 December 1979, he was stripped of his \"missio canonica\",\n\nhis licence to teach as a Roman Catholic theologian, but carried on teaching as a tenured professor of ecumenical theology at the University of Tübingen until his retirement (\"Emeritierung\") in 1996.\n\nFor three months in 1981, he was guest professor at the University of Chicago. During this visit to America he was invited to only one Catholic institution, the University of Notre Dame. He appeared on the Phil Donahue Show. In October 1986, he participated in the Third Buddhist-Christian Theological Encounter held at Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Küng initiated a project called \"Weltethos\" (\"Global Ethic\"), which is an attempt at describing what the world's religions have in common (rather than what separates them) and at drawing up a minimal code of rules of behaviour everyone can accept. His vision of a global ethic was embodied in the document for which he wrote the initial draft, \"\". This Declaration was signed at the 1993 Parliament of the World's Religions by religious and spiritual leaders from around the world. Later Küng's project would culminate in the UN's \"Dialogue Among Civilizations\" to which Küng was assigned as one of 19 \"eminent persons.\" Even though it was completed shortly after the terrorist attacks of 9/11 (in September 2001), it was not covered in the U.S. media, about which Küng complained.\n\nIn March 1991, he gave a talk titled \"No Peace Among Nations until Peace Among the Religions\" at UCSD's Price Center. He visited the nearby Beth El synagogue and spoke there on modern German-Jewish relations.\n\nIn 1998, he published \"Dying with Dignity\", co-written with Walter Jens, in which he affirms acceptance of euthanasia from a Christian viewpoint.\n\nIn 2003, Küng saw the beatification of Pope Pius IX as evidence of the degeneration of canonizations to \"gestures of church politics\".\n\nIn 2005, Küng published a critical article in Italy and Germany on \"The failures of Pope Wojtyla\" in which he argued that the world had expected a period of conversion, reform, and dialogue but, instead, John Paul II offered a restoration of the pre-Vatican II status quo—thus blocking reform and inter-church dialogue and reasserting the absolute dominion of Rome.\n\nOn 26 September 2005, he had a friendly discussion about Catholic theology over dinner with Pope Benedict XVI, surprising some observers.\n\nNevertheless, in a 2009 interview with \"Le Monde\", Küng deeply criticised the lifting of the excommunications on the bishops of the Society of Saint Pius X. The interview drew a rebuke from Cardinal Angelo Sodano.\n\nBased on \"Studium Generale\" lectures at Tübingen University, his latest publication, \"Der Anfang aller Dinge\" (\"The beginning of all things\"), discusses the relationship between science and religion. In an analysis spanning from quantum physics to neuroscience, he comments on the current debate about evolution in the United States, dismissing those opposed to the teaching of evolution as \"naive [and] un-enlightened.\"\n\nIn his 2010 book \"Was ich glaube\", he describes his own personal relationship with nature, how he learned to observe correctly, drawing strength from God's creation without falling victim to a false and fanatic love of nature.\n\nIn April 2010, he published in several newspapers an open letter to all Catholic bishops. In the letter he criticized Pope Benedict's handling of liturgical, collegial and inter-religious issues and also the sexual abuse scandals in the Catholic Church. In the letter, he called on bishops to consider six proposals, ranging from speaking up and working on regional solutions to calling for another Vatican council.\n\nHe is a signatory of Church 2011, a German-language memorandum demanding reform of the Catholic Church that was promulgated by Catholic theology professors.\n\nIn 2013, Küng wrote in \"Erlebte Menschlichkeit\" (\"Experienced Humanity\") that he believed people had the right to end their own lives if physical illness, pain, or dementia made living unbearable. He further wrote that he was considering the option of assisted suicide for himself as he was suffering from Parkinson's Disease and was losing the ability to see and write with his hands. Küng wrote that he did not wish to follow the example of John Paul II in this case.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29780486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29780486", "title": "House of Estridsen", "text": "House of Estridsen\n\nThe House of Estridsen, sometimes called the Estridsen or Estrith Dynasty, was the dynasty that provided the Kings of Denmark from 1047 to 1412. The dynasty is named after its ancestor Estrid Svendsdatter. The dynasty is sometimes called the \"Ulfinger\", after Estrid's husband, Ulf the Earl.\nTheir family coat of arms became the coat of arms of Denmark.\n\nThe name of the Estridsen dynasty recalls their acquisition of the Danish crown through the marriage of Ulf the Earl to Estrid Svendsdatter of the House of Knýtlinga, daughter of Sweyn Forkbeard and sister of Cnut the Great. Later genealogies trace the family from Jomsviking leader Styrbjörn the Strong, a scion of the Swedish royal family, who are in turn given a descent from legendary King Sigurd Hring, regarded as mythical by most modern historians. The reliable ancestry traces no earlier than Ulf's own father, the obscure Thorgil Sprakling.\n\nThe dynasty reached its peak with the Kalmar Union, when its members reigned as kings of Denmark, Norway and Sweden in personal union. The dynasty came to end in 1412 with the death of its last member Queen Margaret I. All of the subsequent monarchs of Denmarks were cognatic descendants of the House of Estridsen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17020954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17020954", "title": "Ibn Zaydan", "text": "Ibn Zaydan\n\nAbd al-Rahman ibn Zaydan (1878–1946) was a Moroccan historian and literary author. He was a great-grandson of sultan Moulay Ismael and is considered one of the best sources on the history of his native city Meknes, but also on the Alaouite dynasty. After the installation of the French protectorate he accepted the function of vice-director of the military school of Dâr al-Bayda in Meknes, today's military academy of the city. The \"Ithaf\", his main work of eight volumes, comprehends hundreds of biographies, like those of the sultans Abderrahman and Hassan I.\n\n"}
{"id": "927062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=927062", "title": "Igor Kostin", "text": "Igor Kostin\n\nIgor Fedorovich Kostin (27 December 1936 – 9 June 2015) was one of the five photographers in the world to take pictures of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster near Pripyat in Ukraine, on 26 April 1986. He was working for Novosti Press Agency (APN) as a photographer in Kiev, Ukraine, when he represented Novosti to cover the nuclear accident in Chernobyl. Kostin′s aerial view of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant was widely published around the world, showing the extent of the devastation, and triggering fear throughout the world of radioactivity contamination the accident caused, when the Soviet media was working to censor information regarding the accident, releasing limited information regarding the accident on 28 April 1986, until the Soviet Union′s collapse in 1991.\n\nHe had captured the ongoing problems with contamination suffered by human beings and animals. His photos reportedly include those of the many animals born with deformities in the Chernobyl area, when has returned many times to the Zone of alienation to bring the problems to the attention of the world. Kostin died in Kiev in 2015 at the age of 78 in a car accident. He was married to Alla Kostin.\n\nKostin was born in Bessarabia, in Greater Romania (present day in Moldova), on 27 December 1936, three years before his father, Féodor Kostin, an economist working in a bank, was sent to fight the war for the newly created Moldavian SSR, after Greater Romania was forced to cede Bessarabia to the Soviet Union under the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. Before the cession, the Kostin family relocated to Kishinev, Moldavian ASSR (present day the capital city of Moldova, Chişinău). They subsequently resided in the suburb of Kishinev for the next thirty-two years, when his father was sent to the war.\n\nFrom June 1941 onward, under German and Romanian occupation, Kostin was forced to feed on leftovers disposed by the Germans and better off Moldavians with his mother, Nadejda Popovitch, since his father was the sole breadwinner in the family, and there was widespread famine during the occupation. He and his mother frequently transported food such as borscht illegally to the German concentration camps around Kishinev for the Soviet prisoners of war. It was later revealed by Kostin in his photographic book that his mother hoped to find his father in the camps, only to realise later that his father was killed during a bombing years later.\n\nIn August 1944, the Soviet Union re-established control over Moldavia, and drove the German and Romanian forces out of Moldavian SSR. The entrance of Soviet forces was ushered by aerial bombardment, and almost killed the Kostins, when a bomb obliterated their residence, when they hid under a bed. They later hid near a German armored vehicle, until Soviet forces enter the city.\n\nThe Soviet Union began purging native Moldavians, and send richer farmers and the intelligentsia to concentration camps in Siberia. Private business operations became illegal, and Kostin’s mother operated a small family business, at the risk of being exposed to the officials by neighbors. In the mornings the Kostins would wake up to the clamor of some of their neighbors packing up and being deported. It was at this point of time that Kostin turned into a gangster and lost interests in schooling. His early life turned into a game of survival of the fittest. Most people were preoccupied with obtaining the basic necessities of life.\n\nIn 1954, he began military service as a degenerated athletic youth in the army, where he was reformed and became a sapper. He revealed that on at least one occasion he was instructed to dig trenches along the Soviet border in anticipation of an American invasion. By the end of his service he grew more insubordinate and went absent without official leave adding seven months of military jail term to his three-year military service. His deputy commander assigned him the task of redecorating the \"Leninrooms\"—political meeting rooms of the barracks. His jail term was immediately commuted upon the completion of the job.\n\nIn 1959, upon being discharged from the army, Kostin began playing volleyball for Kishinev’s regional sporting team. He then moved up the ladder to play for the Moldavian SSR team, subsequently becoming part of the Soviet national team, representing the union in international volleyball competitions. In 1969, his sporting career ended with multiple spinal and knee injuries and complications from negligence of medical treatments. He began studying at the Agronomy Institute of Kishinev, and was employed as Senior Engineer for a construction firm in Kishinev. It was then he received a job offer at the Construction Bureau of Kiev, in Ukraine.\n\nIn Kiev, they pioneered a construction framing method that expedited building construction, and Kostin invented a machine for the method, which he was awarded prizes for. He was then promoted to Chief of Construction, and managed a staff of around 50 people. His wife at that time, Galina, who was also an engineer, helped him to discover and pursue his natural talent in photography through many sleepless nights developing and printing the analog images in Kiev, which eventually won him praise at the international photo exhibitions.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, Kostin had lost most interest in the construction industry, and was frustrated with the low fixed salary. He professed that he enjoys photography, specifically portraitures, and won a gold medal for a portrait of his wife in Kiev′s annual photographic exhibition. He had subsequently entered into at least 80 such exhibitions and photographic road-shows throughout the world. Kostin’s career as an amateur photographer earned him more than twice the amount of salary than his career as Chief of Construction in the Construction Bureau of Kiev.\n\nHe was then employed in one of Ukraine′s TV station as a copywriter. He was subsequently made an anchor for a monthly photographic programme, where he interviews some of most accomplished photographers around the world. He was simultaneously employed as the Chief of Construction, effectively holding two formal careers. A year and half later, the show was canceled, and he attempted to apply for a placing at Novosti Press Agency (APN) in Moscow, Russian SFSR. He was however, rejected by Galina Pleskova, then Editor-in-Chief for the agency.\n\nKostin effectively ended his engineering career when he returned to Kiev where he was resorted to be sleeping in the streets to pursue his photographic career. Kiev branch of APN agreed to permit him the use of their photographic development labs. The labs became his temporary abode for around 5 years after which he was employed as war reporter for Novosti.\n\nKostin covered some of the most severe third-world wars where the Soviet Union was involved, such as in Vietnam War and Soviet intervention in Afghanistan, where he fielded as a non-Communist Party affiliated reporter for Novosti. Due to the fact of non-alignment, he was restricted from entering the front-lines.\n\nAfter returning from Afghanistan he began to work periodically for Novosti from the Kiev branch. He reported on local and trans-USSR matters but rarely left the state. On the late evening of 26 April 1986 a helicopter pilot whom he worked closely with for his journalistic activities alerted him that there had been a fire at the nuclear power plant in Chernobyl. The fire had been extinguished by the time they arrived at Chernobyl via helicopter, and witnessed a war-like scramble of military vehicles and power plant personnel down at the scene of the nuclear power plant. He also experienced an odd feeling combined with high temperature and toxic smog, that was unusual for an accident scene. The motor of his cameras began to exhibit symptoms of radioactive-caused degradation after around 20 shots. The helicopter returned to Kiev after the cameras′ failure.\n\nKostin managed to develop the films, only to realise that all but one was unsalvageable - most of the films were affected by the high level of radiation, that caused the photographs to appear entirely black, resembling a film that was exposed to light pre-maturely. Kostin′s only photograph of the nuclear power plant was sent to Novosti in Moscow, but he did not receive a permit to publish it until 5 May 1986. His visit to Chernobyl was illegal and not sanctioned by the authorities. \"Pravda\" published limited information about the accident on 29 April 1986, but did not publish Kostin’s photographs.\n\nThe accident was interpreted as a major catastrophe by the global news media, even when the Ukrainian and Soviet authorities were trying to suppress any news regarding the accident. Kostin later received permits as one of the representative of the five accredited Soviet media to cover the accident site and the Zone of Alienation. On 5 May 1986 he ventured into the rubbles of the Chernobyl nuclear plant site and Reactor 4 along with the liquidators.\n\nIt was then that he covered the mass exodus of inhabitants of Pripyat and 30 km zone surrounding the nuclear power plant, before the 1 May Labour Day celebration. Hundreds had died from the accident, mostly workers at the nuclear power plant, and from thyroid cancer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1704278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704278", "title": "John B. Cobb", "text": "John B. Cobb\n\nJohn B. Cobb Jr. (born February 9, 1925) is an American theologian, philosopher, and environmentalist. Cobb is often regarded as the preeminent scholar in the field of process philosophy and process theology—the school of thought associated with the philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead. Cobb is the author of more than fifty books. In 2014, Cobb was elected to the prestigious American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nA unifying theme of Cobb's work is his emphasis on ecological interdependence—the idea that every part of the ecosystem is reliant on all the other parts. Cobb has argued that humanity's most urgent task is to preserve the world on which it lives and depends, an idea which his primary influence—philosopher and mathematician Alfred North Whitehead—described as \"world-loyalty.\"\n\nCobb is well known for his transdisciplinary approach, integrating insights from many different areas of study and bringing different specialized disciplines into fruitful communication. Because of his broad-minded interest and approach, Cobb has been influential in a wide range of disciplines, including theology, ecology, economics, biology and social ethics.\n\nIn 1971, he wrote the first single-author book in environmental ethics—\"Is It Too Late? A Theology of Ecology\"—which argued for the relevance of religious thought in approaching the ecological crisis. In 1989, he co-authored the book \"For the Common Good: Redirecting the Economy Toward Community, Environment, and a Sustainable Future\", which critiqued current global economic practice and advocated for a sustainable, ecology-based economics. He has written extensively on religious pluralism and interfaith dialogue, particularly between Buddhism and Christianity, as well as the need to reconcile religion and science.\n\nCobb is the co-founder and current co-director of the Center for Process Studies in Claremont, California. The Center for Process Studies remains the leading Whitehead-related institute, and has witnessed the launch of more than thirty related centers at academic institutions throughout the world, including twenty-three centers in China.\n\nJohn Cobb was born in Kobe, Japan in 1925 to parents who were Methodist missionaries. Until age 15, he lived primarily in Kobe and Hiroshima and received most of his early education in the multi-ethnic Canadian Academy in Kobe, to which he attributes the beginnings of his pluralistic outlook.\n\nIn 1940, Cobb moved to Georgia, USA to finish high school. He found himself both bewildered and disgusted by the pervasive racism in the region, particularly the demonization of the Japanese. Seeing how the same events could be presented in such different ways based on the country in which he was living, Cobb became ever-more counter-cultural and critical of the dominant views in churches, media, universities, and government.\n\nAfter his graduation from high school, Cobb attended Emory College in Oxford, Georgia before joining the U.S. Army in 1943. He was chosen for the Japanese language program, which was filled mainly with Jewish and Catholic intellectuals who helped make him aware of the narrow, parochial nature of his Georgia Protestantism.\nCobb served in the occupation of Japan, then returned to the United States and left the army soon afterward. He then entered an interdepartmental program at the University of Chicago in 1947. There, he set out to test his faith by learning the modern world's objections to Christianity. His faith did not come out intact.\n\nI was determined to expose my faith to the worst the world could offer. Within six months of such exposure my faith was shattered ... God, who had been my constant companion and Lord up to that point, simply evaporated, and my prayers bounced back from the ceiling unheard.\nHoping to reconstruct a Christian faith more compatible with scientific and historical knowledge, Cobb entered the University of Chicago Divinity School. He was successful in restoring his personal faith primarily with the help of Richard McKeon, Daniel Day Williams, and Charles Hartshorne. McKeon introduced Cobb to philosophical relativism, while Hartshorne and Williams taught him Whiteheadian process philosophy and process theology. Alfred North Whitehead's thought became the central theme of Cobb's own work.\n\nAfter receiving his PhD from the University of Chicago in 1952, he spent three years teaching at Young Harris College in north Georgia, while also serving as part-time pastor to a six-church circuit and establishing a seventh congregation in the area. Ernest Cadman Colwell, formerly president of the University of Chicago, brought Cobb to Emory University in Georgia to teach in the new graduate institute for liberal arts. In 1958, Cobb followed Colwell to Claremont, California, where he was named Ingraham Professor of Theology at Claremont School of Theology and Avery Professor of Religion at Claremont Graduate University. He established the \"Process Studies\" journal with Lewis S. Ford in 1971 and co-founded the Center for Process Studies with David Ray Griffin in 1973, making Claremont the center of Whiteheadian process thought. Twenty-five years later, together with Herman Greene, he organized the International Process Network. This organization holds biennial conferences, the tenth of which will be taking place in Claremont in 2015.\n\nDuring his career, Cobb has also served as Visiting Professor at Harvard Divinity School, Chicago Divinity School, Vanderbilt Divinity School, Iliff School of Theology, Rikkyo University in Japan, and the University of Mainz in Germany. He has received six honorary doctorates.\n\nAlthough Cobb is most often described as a theologian, the overarching tendency of his thought has been toward the integration of many different areas of knowledge, employing Alfred North Whitehead's transdisciplinary philosophical framework as his guiding insight. As a result, Cobb has done work in a broad range of fields.\n\nCobb has consistently opposed the splitting of education and knowledge into discrete and insulated disciplines and departments. He believes that the current university model encourages excessive abstraction because each specialized area of study defines its own frame of reference and then tends to ignore the others, discouraging interdisciplinary dialogue and inhibiting a broad understanding of the world.\n\nTo combat these problems, Cobb argues that discrete \"disciplines\" in general—and theology in particular—need to re-emerge from their mutual academic isolation. Theology should once again be tied to ethical questions and practical, everyday concerns, as well as a theoretical understanding of the world. In service to this vision, Cobb has consistently sought to integrate knowledge from biology, physics, economics, and other disciplines into his theological and philosophical work.\n\nCobb was convinced that Alfred North Whitehead was right in viewing both nature and human beings as more than just purposeless machines. Rather than seeing nature as purely mechanical and human consciousness as a strange exception which must be explained away, Whiteheadian naturalism went in the opposite direction by arguing that subjective experience of the world should inform a view of the rest of nature as more than just mechanical. In short, nature should be seen as having a subjective and purposive aspect that deserves attention.\n\nSpeaking to this need of moving beyond classically \"modern\" ideas, in the 1960s Cobb was the first to label Whiteheadian thought as \"postmodern.\" Later, when deconstructionists began to describe their thought as \"postmodern,\" Whiteheadians changed their own label to \"\"constructive\" postmodernism.\"\n\nLike its deconstructionist counterpart, constructive postmodernism arose partly in response to dissatisfaction with Cartesian mind-matter dualism, which viewed matter as an inert machine and the human mind as wholly different in nature. While modern science has uncovered voluminous evidence against this idea, Cobb argues that dualistic assumptions continue to persist:\n\nOn the whole, dualism was accepted by the general culture. To this day it shapes the structure of the university, with its division between the sciences and the humanities. Most people, whether they articulate it or not, view the world given to them in sight and touch as material, while they consider themselves to transcend that purely material status.\n\nWhile deconstructionists have concluded that we must abandon any further attempts to create a comprehensive vision of the world, Cobb and other constructive postmodernists believe that metaphysics and comprehensive world-models are possible and still needed. In particular, they have argued for a new Whiteheadian metaphysics based on events rather than substances. In this formulation, it is incorrect to say that a person or thing (\"substance\") has a fundamental identity that remains constant, and that any changes to the person or thing are secondary to what it is. Instead, each moment in a person's life (\"event\") is seen as a new actuality, thus asserting that continual change and transformation are fundamental, while static identities are far less important. This view more easily reconciles itself with certain findings of modern science, such as evolution and wave-particle duality.\n\nEcological themes have been pervasive in Cobb's work since 1969, when he turned his attention to the ecological crisis. He became convinced that environmental issues constituted humanity's most pressing problem. Cobb writes:\n\nDuring the seventies my sense of the theological vocation changed. I did not lose interest in developing the Christian tradition so as to render it intelligible, convincing, and illuminating in a changing context. But I did reject the compartmentalization of my discipline of 'constructive theology,' especially in its separation from ethics, and more generally in its isolation from other academic disciplines ... I was persuaded that no problem could be more critical than that of a decent survival of a humanity that threatened to destroy itself by exhausting and polluting its natural context.\n\nCobb went on to write the first single-author book in environmental ethics, \"Is It Too Late? A Theology of Ecology\", in 1971. In the book, he argued for an ecological worldview that acknowledges the continuity between human beings and other living things, as well as their mutual dependence. He also proposed that Christianity specifically needed to appropriate knowledge from the biological sciences in order to undercut its anthropocentrism (human-centeredness) and devaluation of the non-human world.\n\nCobb's economic critiques arose as a natural extension of his interest in ecological issues. He recognized that he could not write about an ecological, sustainable, and just society without including discussion of economics.\n\nAs part of his investigation into why economic policies so frequently worsened the ecological situation, in the 1980s Cobb decided to re-evaluate Gross National Product (GNP) and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as measures of economic progress. Together with his son, Clifford Cobb, he developed an alternative model, the Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare (ISEW), which sought to \"consolidate economic, environmental, and social elements into a common framework to show net progress.\" The name of the metric would later change to Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI). A recent (2013) article has shown that global GPI per capita peaked in 1978, meaning that the social and environmental costs of economic growth have outweighed the benefits since that time.\n\nCobb also co-authored a book with Herman Daly in 1989 entitled \"For the Common Good: Redirecting the Economy Toward Community, Environment, and a Sustainable Future\", which outlined policy changes intended to create a society based on community and ecological balance. In 1992, \"For the Common Good\" earned Cobb and Daly the Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order.\n\nIn recent years, Cobb has described current growth-oriented economic systems as the \"prime example of corruption\" in American culture and religion:\n\nSince the rise of modern economics, Christians have been forced to give up their criticism of greed, because the economists said \"greed is good, and if you really want to help people, be as greedy as possible.\"\n\nCobb sees such values as being in direct opposition with the message of Jesus, which in many places explicitly criticizes the accumulation of wealth. Because of Christianity's widespread acceptance of such economic values, Cobb sees Christians as far less confident in proclaiming the values of Jesus.\n\nAlong with Whitehead, Cobb has sought to reconcile science and religion in places where they appear to conflict, as well as to encourage religion to make use of scientific insights and vice versa.\n\nIn the area of religion and biology, he co-wrote \"The Liberation of Life: From the Cell to the Community\" with Australian geneticist Charles Birch in 1981. The book critiqued the dominant biological model of mechanism, arguing that it leads to the study of organisms in abstraction from their environments. Cobb and Birch argue instead for an \"ecological model\" which draws no sharp lines between the living and non-living, or between an organism and its environment. The book also argues for an idea of evolution in which adaptive behavior can lead to genetic changes. Cobb and Birch stress that a species \"\"co\"-evolves with its environment,\" and that in this way intelligent purpose plays a role in evolution:\n\nEvolution is not a process of ruthless competition directed to some goal of ever-increasing power or complexity. Such an attitude, by failing to be adaptive, is, in fact, not conducive to evolutionary success. A species co-evolves with its environment. Equally, there is no stable, harmonious nature to whose wisdom humanity should simply submit. Intelligent purpose plays a role in adaptive behaviour, and as environments change its role is increased.\n\n\"The Liberation of Life\" stresses that \"all\" life (not just human life) is purposeful and that it aims for the realization of richer experience. Cobb and Birch develop the idea of \"trusting life\" as a religious impulse, rather than attempting to achieve a settled, perfected social structure that does not allow for change and evolution.\n\nCobb has participated in extensive interreligious and interfaith dialogue, most notably with Masao Abe, a Japanese Buddhist of the Kyoto School of philosophy. Cobb's explicit aim was to gain ideas and insights from other religions with an eye toward augmenting and \"universalizing\" Christianity. Cobb writes:\n\n... it is the mission of Christianity to become a universal faith in the sense of taking into itself the alien truths that others have realized. This is no mere matter of addition. It is instead a matter of creative transformation. An untransformed Christianity, that is, a Christianity limited to its own parochial traditions, cannot fulfill its mission of realizing the universal meaning of Jesus Christ.\nIn short, Cobb does not conceive of dialogue as useful primarily to convert or be converted, but rather as useful in order to transform both parties mutually, allowing for a broadening of ideas and a reimagining of each faith in order that they might better face the challenges of the modern world.\n\nCobb has also been active in formulating his own theories of religious pluralism, partly in response to another Claremont Graduate University professor, John Hick. Cobb's pluralism has sometimes been identified as a kind of \"deep\" pluralism or, alternately, as a \"complementary\" pluralism. He believes that there are actually three distinct religious ultimates: 1) God, 2) Creativity/Emptiness/Nothingness/Being-itself, and 3) the cosmos/universe. Cobb believes that all of these elements are necessary and present in some form in every religion but that different faiths tend to stress one ultimate over the others. Viewed in this way, different religions may be seen to complement each other by providing insight into different religious ultimates. Cobb's pluralism thus avoids the criticism of conflating religions that are actually very different (for instance, Buddhism and Christianity) while still affirming the possible truths of both.\n\nCobb believed that through at least the nineteenth century and the first half of the twentieth century, American Protestant theology had been largely derivative from European (specifically German) theology. In the late 1950s, Cobb and Claremont professor James Robinson decided that the time had come to end this one-sidedness and move to authentic dialogue between American and European theologians. To establish real mutuality, they organized a series of conferences of leading theologians in Germany and the United States and published a series of volumes called \"New Frontiers in Theology.\"\n\nAfter writing several books surveying contemporary forms of Christian Protestantism, Cobb turned in the mid-1960s to more original work which sought to bring Alfred North Whitehead's ideas into the contemporary American Protestant scene. Cobb aimed to reconstruct a Christian vision that was more compatible with modern knowledge and more ready to engage with today's pluralistic world. He did this in a number of ways.\n\nFor one, Cobb has stressed the problems inherent in what he calls the \"substantialist\" worldview—ultimately derived from Classical Greek philosophy—that still dominates Christian theology, as well as most of western thought. This \"substantialist\" way of thinking necessitates a mind-matter dualism, in which matter and mind are two fundamentally different kinds of entities. It also encourages seeing relations between entities as being unimportant to what the entity is \"in itself.\" In contrast to this view, Cobb follows Whitehead in attributing primacy to events and processes rather than substances. In this Whiteheadian view, nothing is contained within its own sharp boundaries. In fact, the way in which a thing relates to other things is what makes it \"what it is.\" Cobb writes:\n\nIf the substantialist view is abandoned, a quite different picture emerges. Each occasion of human experience is constituted not only by its incorporation of the cellular occasions of its body but also by its incorporation of aspects of other people. That is, people internally relate to one another. Hence, the character of one's being, moment by moment, is affected by the health and happiness of one's neighbors.\n\nFor Cobb, this metaphysics of process is better-aligned with the Bible, which stresses history, community, and the importance of one's neighbors.\nAlso, instead of turning further inward to preserve a cohesive Christian community, Cobb turned outward in order to discover truths that Christianity may not yet possess. This is in direct opposition to those who feel that Christianity as a religious system is absolutely final, complete, and free of error. Cobb has not only turned to other religions (most notably Buddhism) in order to supplement Christian ideas and systems, but also to other disciplines, including biology, physics, and economics.\n\nIn fact, Cobb has not shied away even from re-imaging what is now regarded as the \"traditional\" Christian notion of God. He does not believe that God is omnipotent in the sense of having unilateral control over all events, since Cobb sees reconciling total coercive power with love and goodness to be an impossible task. Instead, all creatures are viewed as having some degree of freedom that God cannot override. Cobb solves the problem of evil by denying God's omnipotence, stressing instead that God's power is persuasive rather than coercive, that God can influence creatures but not determine what they become or do. For Cobb, God's role is to liberate and empower.\n\nAgainst traditional theism, Cobb has also denied the idea that God is immutable (unchanging) and impassible (unfeeling). Instead, he stresses that God is affected and changed by the actions of creatures, both human and otherwise. For Cobb, the idea that God experiences and changes does not mean that God is imperfect—quite the contrary. Instead, God is seen as experiencing with all beings, and hence understanding and empathizing with all beings, becoming \"the fellow sufferer who understands.\" Cobb argues that this idea of God is more compatible with the Bible, in which Jesus suffers and dies.\n\nAdditionally, Cobb's theology has argued against the idea of salvation as a singular, binary event in which one is either saved or not saved for all time. Rather than seeing one's time in the world as a test of one's morality in order to enter a heavenly realm, Cobb sees salvation as the continual striving to transform and perfect our experience in this world. Cobb's idea of salvation focuses less on moral categories and more on aesthetic categories—such as a preference for intense experience over dull experience, or beauty rather than ugliness. Cobb writes:\n\nIf morality is bound up with contributing to others, the crucial question is: What is to be contributed? One contribution might be making them more moral, and that is fine. But finally, true morality cannot aim simply at the spread of morality. It must aim at the wellbeing of those it tries to help in some broader sense. For process thought that must be the perfection of their experience inclusively.\n\nCobb admits that the idea of morality being subservient to aesthetics is \"shocking to many Christians,\" yet he argues that there must be more to life than simply being morally good or morally bad and that aesthetic categories fulfill this function specifically because they are defined as goods in themselves.\n\nWithin the last twenty years, Cobb has become increasingly distressed by the popular identification of Christianity with the religious right and the weak response of mainstream Protestants. To encourage a stronger response, he organized Progressive Christians Uniting with the noted Episcopal priest George Regas in 1996, chaired its reflection committee, and edited a number of its books. As the perceived gap between the policies of the American government and Christian teaching grew wider, these books moved beyond simply reformist proposals. The last of these was entitled \"Resistance: The New Role of Progressive Christians\".\n\nCobb's most recent book is entitled \"Spiritual Bankruptcy: A Prophetic Call to Action\". It argues against both religiousness and secularism, claiming that what is needed is the secularization of the wisdom traditions.\n\nProcess philosophy in the tradition of Alfred North Whitehead is often considered a primarily American philosophical movement, but it has spread globally and has been of particular interest to Chinese thinkers. As one of process philosophy's leading figures, Cobb has taken a leadership role in bringing process thought to the East, most specifically to help China develop a more ecological civilization—a goal which the current Chinese government has written into its constitution.\n\nWith Zhihe Wang, Cobb founded the Institute for Postmodern Development of China (IPDC) in 2005, and currently serves on its board of directors. Through the IPDC, Cobb helps to coordinate the work of twenty-three collaborative centers in China, as well as to organize annual conferences on ecological civilization.\n\nCobb has founded numerous non-profit organizations throughout his career.\n\nIn 1973, Cobb co-founded the Center for Process Studies with David Ray Griffin as a faculty research center of the Claremont School of Theology, and currently still serves as its Co-Director. The Center for Process Studies is the leading institute on the process philosophy and process theology inspired by Alfred North Whitehead, Charles Hartshorne, and others.\n\nIn 1996, Cobb co-founded the Claremont Consultation with George Regas in an effort to organize and mobilize progressive Christian communities. In 2003, the organization's name was changed to \"Progressive Christians Uniting.\" PCU today describes itself as \"a social justice and faith organization dedicated to amplifying hope and actions individuals can take that lead to a more compassionate and just world.\"\n\nIn 2005, Cobb was the founding President of the Institute for the Postmodern Development of China. The IPDC works to promote new modes of development in China and the West, drawing from both classical Chinese philosophy and constructive forms of Western thought in order to address practical problems associated with economic growth, social change, and globalization. Cobb continues to work on the IPDC's board of directors.\n\nIn 2013, Cobb was a founding board member of Process Century Press, an academic press dedicated to transdisciplinary applications of process thought. He remains on PCP's advisory board.\n\nIn 2014, Cobb was the founding chairperson of the board for Pando Populus, an LA-based non-profit organization that seeks to enact a more ecologically balanced way of life in the LA area. Cobb remains on Pando Populus' board of directors.\n\nIn 2015, Cobb was a founding board member of Toward Ecological Civilization (EcoCiv), a non-profit organization which seeks to enact \"a fully sustainable human society in harmony with surrounding ecosystems and communities of life.\" Cobb remains on EcoCiv's board of directors.\n\n\n\nFor a list of Cobb's published articles through 2010, see the list at The Center for Process Studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2459592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2459592", "title": "John Bly", "text": "John Bly\n\nJohn Bly FRSA (born 1939) is an English antiques dealer, author, after-dinner speaker and broadcaster who is best known from the BBC \"Antiques Roadshow\" (UK). \n\nHe attended Berkhamsted School and his career began with Sotheby's, where he worked for four years before joining his family business in Tring (John Bly Antiques, started by John Bly's great grandfather). He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and a Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths. For two years he was elected a chairman of the British Antique Dealers' Association (BADA).\n\nJohn Bly appeared on the highly popular BBC One chat show \"Wogan\" in the late 1980s, during the height of his \"Antiques Roadshow\" fame, and entertained the viewing millions by playing a pair of antique silver spoons as musical instruments.\n\nHe is the author of \"Antiques Masterclass: dating and identifying your period pieces\". He is also an accomplished jazz drummer and once considered going professional.\n\nBly has two sons, both of whom are antique dealers.\n\n"}
{"id": "289961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289961", "title": "John Cairncross", "text": "John Cairncross\n\nJohn Cairncross (25 July 1913 – 8 October 1995) was a British civil servant who became an intelligence officer and spy during the Second World War. As a Soviet double agent, he passed to the Soviet Union the raw Tunny decrypts that influenced the Battle of Kursk. He was alleged to be the fifth member of the Cambridge Five.\n\nCairncross's father was the manager of an ironmongery and his mother a primary school teacher. John Cairncoss was one of a family of eight, many of whom had distinguished careers. All three of his brothers became professors. One was the economist Sir Alexander Kirkland Cairncross (a.k.a. Alec Cairncross). The journalist Frances Cairncross is his niece. Cairncross grew up in Lesmahagow, a small town on the edge of moorland, near Lanark in the Central Belt of Scotland, and was educated at the Hamilton Academy (although his name appears as the 1928 winner of the Dux prize at Lesmahagow High School); the University of Glasgow; the Sorbonne and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he studied French and German.\n\nAfter graduating, he took the British Civil Service exam and won first place. An article in the \"Glasgow Herald\" on 29 September 1936 noted that Cairncross had scored an \"outstanding double success of being placed 1st in the Home List and 1st in the competition for the Foreign Office and the Diplomatic Service,\" and that he had been placed 5th in the (Glasgow University) bursary competition of 1930, and was also a Scholar and Bell Exhibitioner at Trinity College, Cambridge.\n\nCairncross worked initially in the Cabinet Office as a private secretary to Lord Hankey, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. Later he transferred to the Foreign Office. It has been suggested that in 1937 he joined the Communist Party of Great Britain, but he was not noted whilst at Cambridge for any political activity. He was regarded as rather austere and uncommunicative as an undergraduate.\n\nIn 1942 and 1943 Cairncross worked in GC&CS, Bletchley Park on ULTRA ciphers. In 1944, he joined MI6.\n\nDuring his time at Bletchley Park, Cairncross passed documents through secret channels to the Soviet Union.\n\nCairncross, codenamed \"Liszt\" by the Russians because of his love of music, had been instructed to get into Bletchley Park, known to the KGB as \"Kurort\".\n\nFrom 1942 onwards, the German High Command communicated with Army group commanders in the field using a machine that the British codenamed Tunny. Colossus, the world's first electronic digital computer, deciphered Tunny messages in quantity from 1943 onwards. \nCairncross smuggled \"Tunny\" decrypts due to be destroyed out of Hut 3 in his trousers, transferring them to his bag at the railway station before going to meet his KGB contact in London.\n\nThe raw transcripts decrypted by Colossus were passed to intelligence officers at Bletchley Park, who created reports based on this material by disguising its origin as signals traffic. By providing verbatim transcripts, Cairncross showed the Soviets that the British were breaking German codes.\n\nIt was at that time considered to be in the British interest for the Soviet Union to be made aware of German military plans, but not of how they were obtained. Only information based on these reports was passed to the Russians through official channels. However, Stalin distrusted unsourced intelligence presented to him by Britain and the United States.\n\nOperation Citadel was the codename given by Nazi Germany to their offensive which led to the Battle of Kursk. After being defeated at Kursk, the Wehrmacht retreated steadily until Berlin was taken.\n\nTunny decrypts (transcripts) gave the British advance intelligence about Operation Citadel whilst it was being planned. Almost all raw transcripts were destroyed at the end of the war but a surviving transcript dated 25 April 1943 from German Army Group South signed by Maximilian von Weichs shows the high level of detail available to British intelligence officers. Analysts deduced the northern and southern attack routes, and a report based on this transcript was passed through official channels to Stalin.\n\nDuring this period, Cairncross provided a second clandestine channel, supplying raw Tunny transcripts directly.\n\nAxis occupation forces in Yugoslavia used radio communication extensively. In addition to German Abwehr, SD, Luftwaffe, naval, railway, Army group and High Command messages, GC&CS intercepted and decrypted Yugoslav partisan communications with Comintern and with the Soviet Union. Cairncross first in Hut 3, then later at MI6 HQ, had access to raw decrypts. Communications from Comintern to Tito supplying some of this intelligence, strongly suggest that he passed decrypts concerning Yugoslavia to the KGB.\n\nBetween 1941 and 1945, Cairncross supplied the Soviets with 5,832 documents, according to Russian archives. In 1944, Cairncross joined MI6, the foreign intelligence service. In Section V, the counter-intelligence section, Cairncross produced under the direction of Kim Philby an order of battle of the SS. Cairncross later suggested that he was unaware of Philby's connections with the Russians.\n\nYuri Modin, the Russian MGB (later KGB) Controller in London claims that Cairncross gave him details of nuclear arms to be stationed with NATO in West Germany. He gives no date for this message. But Cairncross was at the Ministry of Supply in 1951 and NATO was established in April 1949. However, there was no such plan at this time and it was only much later that NATO obtained tactical nuclear weapons under US control in Germany. This appears to have been a disinformation exercise.\n\nCairncross admitted to spying in 1951 after MI5 found papers in Guy Burgess's flat with a handwritten note from him, after Burgess's flight to Moscow. Some believe that he may have supplied information about the Western atomic weapons programme, the Manhattan Project, to assist the Soviet nuclear programme. It would have been surprising, though, if he had clearance to any useful engineering information, or that he would have understood it. He was never prosecuted, however, which later led to charges that the government engaged in a conspiracy to cover up his role. Indeed, the identity of the infamous 'fifth man' in the Cambridge Five remained a mystery outside intelligence circles until 1990, when KGB defector Oleg Gordievsky confirmed Cairncross publicly. Cairncross actually worked independently of the other four and did not share their upper-middle-class backgrounds or tastes. Although he knew Anthony Blunt at Cambridge and Guy Burgess in the Foreign Office (and had a personal dislike of both of them), he claimed not to have been aware that they or any of the others were also passing secrets to the Russians.\n\nAt the end of the war Cairncross joined the Treasury – he claimed that he ceased working for the MGB (later to become the KGB), at this time. KGB reports, published subsequently, contradict this.\n\nAfter his first confession (1952), Cairncross lost his civil-service job and was penniless and unemployed. He moved to the United States as a lecturer at Northwestern University and at Case Western Reserve University. He became an expert on French authors and translated the works of many 17th century French poets and dramatists such as Jean Racine, Jean de La Fontaine and Pierre Corneille, as well as writing three of his own books: \"Molière bourgeois et libertin\"; \"New Light on Molière\"; and \"After Polygamy was Made a Sin\".\n\nThis career was ended following further investigation into Cairncross by MI5 investigative officer Arthur S. Martin. After Philby fled to Moscow in 1963, Martin reopened the files to hunt for the fourth and fifth men. To Martin's surprise, Cairncross made a full confession. Martin also received a denunciation which led to Blunt's confession. Despite his confession to Martin, Cairncross was never prosecuted for his espionage activities. The confession, conducted in Cleveland, Ohio, was not made within British jurisdiction or under caution and would have been ineligible in court. \n\nCairncross moved to Rome, where he worked for the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization as a translator, also taking on work for the Research Office of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, Banca d'Italia and IMI. In the BNL, a young economist engaged with international scenarios analysis (the Iran–Iraq War of 1980–1988, petroleum's strategic routes in the Middle East and Far East) reported a strong and unusual interest by Cairncross about the Bank's role in that area. During his time in Rome his secret finally reached the public. In December 1979, Barrie Penrose, a journalist, concluded that Cairncross was the \"fifth man\" and confronted him. Cairncross's third confession became front-page news. His status as the \"fifth man\" was supported years later by Oleg Gordievsky, the KGB defector. Cairncross retired to the south of France until 1995 when he returned to Britain and married American opera singer Gayle Brinkerhoff. Later that year he died after suffering a stroke, at the age of 82.\n\nCairncross's autobiography, \"The Enigma Spy\", was published in 1997. In 2001 writer Rupert Allason lost a court case in which he claimed to have ghostwritten \"The Enigma Spy\" in return for copyright and 50% of the book proceeds.\n\nCairncross appears as a character in the Franco-Belgian comic \"India Dreams\" by Maryse Charles and Jean-François Charles. He was also depicted in part three of the 2003 BBC TV series \"Cambridge Spies\", where he appears reluctant to continue passing Bletchley Park data to the Russians for fear that the Red Army was heavily penetrated by German intelligence and by Eastern Front military intelligence under General Gehlen; Anthony Blunt is depicted in the drama as pressuring him with threats to continue. He is depicted as the fifth of the Cambridge Five in Frederick Forsyth's \"The Deceiver\".\n\nCairncross appears as a cryptographer at Bletchley Park in the 2014 film \"The Imitation Game,\" played by Allen Leech. He is shown as an unwitting double agent being used as a back-channel by MI6 to pass information to the Soviets that Churchill is too cautious to provide; no historical basis for this is provided.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36851414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36851414", "title": "John Frederick Demartini", "text": "John Frederick Demartini\n\nJohn Fredrick Demartini (born November 25, 1954), is an American researcher, best selling author, international educator, public speaker in human behavior and former chiropractor.\n\nHe founded the Demartini Institute and has trademarked certain methodologies in human development, the primary two being the \"Demartini Method\" and the \"Demartini Value Determination Process\".\n\nDemartini has also appeared in several films, including \"The Secret\" in 2006. He has also appeared in several documentaries and including Peter Rodger’s 2009 film \"Oh My God\", and \"Overfed & Undernourished\" in 2014.\n\nHe is the author of nine internationally best selling published titles translated into 28 different languages, including \"The Breakthrough Experience\", \"Inspired Destiny\", \"Riches Within\", \"Stress to Success\", \"How to Make One Hell of a Profit and Still Get to Heaven\", \"The Gratitude Effect\", \"Wisdom of the Oracle\", \"Count Your Blessings\", \"The Heart of Love\" \"You Can Have an Amazing Life in Just 60 Days\" and \"The Values Factor\". He has also written for \"The Huffington Post\".\n"}
{"id": "59046417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59046417", "title": "Karl Ameisbichler", "text": "Karl Ameisbichler\n\nKarl Ameisbichler (born 25 March 1927) was an Austrian boxer. He competed in the men's heavyweight event at the 1948 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "2202083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2202083", "title": "Kat Bjelland", "text": "Kat Bjelland\n\nKatherine Lynne \"Kat\" Bjelland (born December 9, 1963) is an American singer, songwriter, musician and guitarist. Bjelland rose to prominence as the lead singer, guitarist, and songwriter of the alternative rock band Babes in Toyland, which she formed in Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1987.\n\nBorn in Salem, Oregon, Bjelland was raised in nearby Woodburn, and learned to play guitar as a teenager from her uncle, with whom she performed in his band shortly after graduating high school. Upon dropping out of college at age nineteen, she relocated to Portland, where she became involved in the city's music scene; there, she met Courtney Love and the two became friends, forming the band Pagan Babies.\n\nAfter the dissolution of Pagan Babies in 1985, Bejalland relocated to Minneapolis, where she formed Babes in Toyland with drummer Lori Barbero. The band's debut record, \"Spanking Machine\", was released in 1990, after which they toured Europe with Sonic Youth. This was followed by their second album, \"Fontanelle\" (1992). The band would release their third studio album, \"Nemesisters\", in 1995. In the mid-late 1990s, Bjelland collaborated on other musical projects, including contributing as a bassist in the band Crunt with her then-husband, Australian musician Stuart Gray.\n\nBabes in Toyland formally disbanded in 2001, and Bjelland began working with Katastrophy Wife, a project under which she released the albums \"Amusia\" (2001) and \"All Kneel\" (2004). She remained out of the public light after being diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder in 2007, but in 2015, reunited with Babes in Toyland and began touring internationally.\n\nBjelland was born on December 9, 1963 in Salem, Oregon to Lynne Irene (née Higginbotham) and Lyle Bjelland. She was raised in Woodburn, a small town north of Salem. \"It's predominantly Orthodox Russians and Hispanics,\" Bjelland said of the community, \"So being white [was] more like being a minority... We lived at the edge of town, so there was complete wilderness behind us.\"\n\nWhen Bjelland was five years old, her mother abandoned their family. Bjelland's father subsequently remarried, after which she claimed to have been physically and verbally abused by her stepmother. \"You know, I really hate to talk about it because she's great now, but in my childhood she was very abusive,\" she said. \"It probably did help my creativity a lot [though]. I was always grounded. I hate to talk about it because I feel like she doesn't think that she did it, but she was [abusive] and it influenced my life quite a great deal.\"\n\nBjelland became interested in music as a young child, and began listening to rock and roll records. As an adolescent, she became enamored with Rush, and attended four of their concerts. She also cited Kiss, Cheap Trick, The B-52's, the Plasmatics, and Captain Beefheart among her favorite artists while growing up. Her uncle, David Higginbotham, taught Bjelland to play guitar in her youth. Her first performance was at a small bar in Woodburn called Flight 99 (now defunct), playing with her uncle in a band called The Neurotics.\n\nShe attended Woodburn High School, where she played on the school basketball team and was a cheerleader. After graduating from high school in 1982, Bjelland briefly enrolled at the University of Oregon, but dropped out after her freshman year and relocated to Portland at age nineteen. During this time, Bjelland worked as a stripper to support herself. She became introduced to punk music after attending a Wipers concert in Portland: \"I didn't know about punk rock that much,\" she recalled. \"I was from a small town. All of a sudden I was like, 'What the fuck is this?'\"\n\nAt age nineteen, Bjelland purchased her first guitar, a Rickenbacker 425, from a pawn shop for $200. In Portland, she formed a series of bands, first The Neurotics and then an all-female band called The Venarays, which Bjelland has described as \"rock with a '60s edge.\" The Neurotics were composed of Bjelland (rhythm guitar); her uncle David Higginbotham (lead guitar); Marty Wyman (vocals); Brian McMillan (drums); and Laura Robertson (bass). Commenting on the band, Bjelland said: \"After The Neurotics I got this band together with my best friends, so it was an all-girl band. We were called The Venarays. The name came from the word \"venary\" which means \"actively hunting out sex\"! We began as a way of having fun with each other.\" In reality, the Venarays was not an all-girl band as drummer Dave Hummel, and later, Jack Rhodes, were men. The name 'Venarays' was taken from a television character called Vena Ray in an early 1950s program called Rocky Jones Space Ranger. After the band was named, some members of the band discovered the word 'venary' in the dictionary and became confused regarding the origin.\n\nAfter quitting The Venarays, Bjelland met Courtney Love in 1984 at the Satyricon, a Portland nightclub, and the two started a band called Sugar Babydoll. The two relocated to San Francisco in 1985, after which they were joined in the group by drummer Suzanne Ramsey, and bassist Jennifer Finch. Bjelland recalled: \"We went through a few names, and we only played a couple of shows. It was the smallest thing I've ever done musically.\" After Finch left the group, they renamed themselves the Pagan Babies and introduced Deirdre Schletter and Janis Tanaka, releasing a four-track demo in December 1985 before disbanding. Love went on to form the band Hole in 1989, while Finch would be part of L7.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Bjelland moved from Portland to Minneapolis, where she formed Babes in Toyland. She met Lori Barbero at a barbecue not long after moving to Minneapolis in the mid-1980s, and convinced her to become a drummer – something that Lori became talented at. The pair joined with bassist Michelle Leon, and Babes in Toyland was formed. Bjelland has said she intentionally sought out bandmates who had no instrumental experience: \"Lori didn't know how to play when I met her. Michelle didn't know how to play. I was self-taught. Hopefully, from being technically inexperienced, you can use your imagination, and play the drums like an instrument instead of just being a beat-keeper. And play the bass like you feel it, from your gut, instead of saying, 'Here's my scales.'\"\n\nThe band recorded their first extended play, \"To Mother\", in London in 1990, titled in honor of Bjelland's mother, whom she had discovered died of pancreatic cancer on the first day of the recording sessions. After signing to Reprise Records in 1991, Babes in Toyland's debut single, \"Dust Cake Boy\" b/w \"Spit to See the Shine\" was well-received. After touring Europe with Sonic Youth, the band recorded their debut album \"Spanking Machine\", which also was well- received, and was compared to the music of The Birthday Party and New York Dolls. The group would become misidentified as part of the riot grrrl movement, though Bjelland has denied having anything to do with the movement, which emphasized female domination. As she said in a 1992 interview: \"I don't feel helpless or anything. I don't feel like I have to be like, \"I'm a female and I can do this if I want to\", cause, of course I can. I already know that, and I never felt being female hurt anything. If anything, it helped.\"\nIn 1991, the band toured in Europe with Sonic Youth, which was documented in the film \"\". Following this, Babes in Toyland peaked in commercial success when they performed on a portion of the Lollapalooza tour in 1993, and released their second album, \"Fontanelle\" (1992), which sold over 250,000 copies. In 1994, the band was featured on the covers of \"Entertainment Weekly\" and \"USA Today\".\n\nIn 1993, Bjelland moved to Seattle and began a side project called Crunt with her then-husband, Australian musician Stuart Gray (also known as Stu Spasm), formerly of Lubricated Goat. Bjelland played bass and Gray guitar, while Russell Simins of Jon Spencer Blues Explosion was the drummer. In February 1994, the band released a self-titled debut, along with its first single, \"Swine\". During this time, Bjelland also co-wrote the track \"I Think That I Would Die\" on Hole's breakthrough album \"Live Through This\" (1994) with Courtney Love and guitarist Eric Erlandson.\n\nIn January 1995, Bjelland and Gray divorced and Crunt disbanded; Bjelland turned her focus back to Babes in Toyland, and the group released their third and final full-length album, \"Nemesisters\" in 1995. After this, she moved to Brooklyn, New York, and contributed to the 1997 album \"Songs of the Witchblade: A Soundtrack to the Comic Book\", for the Top Cow's comics of the same name. She composed, played and produced most of songs, with many rock and metal artists like Megadeth or Peter Steele (Type O Negative), and also collaborated with a freeform musical project called Last Frenzy in England. Babes in Toyland maintained a loyal following throughout the rest of the decade, and in November 2001, played a farewell show in Minneapolis.\n\nWith Babes in Toyland playing only performing sporadically in the late 1990s, Bjelland started the band Katastrophy Wife in 1998 as a side project with her then-husband, drummer Adrian Johnson. The band toured at venues, such as Ladyfest, worldwide, and released two albums, \"Amusia\" (2001) and \"All Kneel\" (2004). Tom Edwards of \"Drowned in Sound\" gave \"All Kneel\" a favorable review, ranking it among Bjelland's best work.\n\nThe band released a vinyl and CD single, \"Heart On\", on the Australian record label Rish in April 2007. The single was intended as a trailer for a forthcoming album, \"Pregnant.\" Katstrophy Wife's vinyl debut was on an Independent label compilation called \"The Tundra Sessions\", featuring production by Tim Mac. although as of 2011 the album has not been released. Bjelland also produced and contributed guest vocals on the album \"The Seven Year Itch\" for the band Angelica, released in 2002.\n\nIn 2006, on the official Katastrophy Wife website, Bjelland wrote that \"Katastrophy Wife have had a few incarnations but from here on I will only re-incarnate my self.\" The following year, in 2007, she was diagnosed with a schizoaffective disorder and institutionalized for a period, and remained out of the public light for several years.\n\nIn 2014, Bjelland reunited with former bandmates Maureen Herman and Lori Barbero and began rehearsing to perform live shows. \"People would show me on the Internet all these young fans who wanted to see us, and I felt kind of obligated to play,\" said Bjelland. \"You see people with their moms and even grandmothers coming to the shows together. It's super cool. I'm just surprised at how much people still like it.\"\n\nIn February 2015, the band played their first live show together in fourteen years in Joshua Tree, California, and performed additional shows on an international tour throughout 2015. Bjelland commented that she intended to write new material, but that it would be concerned with \"less anger about people. Now it's about things that are going on in the world. I've got a whole plethora of songs ready to go.\"\n\nAs a child, Bjelland's favorite band was Rush, particularly their fourth album \"2112\". \"It was kind of a band that girls didn't like, just guys liked them... I liked them because they had weird, spacey other-land lyrics, and lots of breaks, and really cool instrumentation,\" she said. As an adolescent, she also listened to popular rock bands such as Kiss and Cheap Trick. She would later credit Cocteau Twins, The Miracle Workers, and the Wipers as early influences, and also said she listened to Billie Holiday as a teenager. As an adult, Bjelland named Captain Beefheart, Charles Mingus, Leonard Cohen, Frightwig, Girlschool, Motörhead, and other '70s metal bands as important to her.\n\nBjelland has been noted by music critics for her unique screaming vocals, which have been likened to those of Ozzy Osbourne and Diamanda Galás. Journalist Richard Cromelin noted in a 1992 \"Los Angeles Times\" profile that \"She retches her enraged lyrics, her screams skid across the beat and collide with the blunt riffs. Her voice erupts into laughs and gargles, then croons down low with eerie detachment.\"\n\nCommenting on her musical aspirations, Bjelland said: \"It should sound like nothing that you've heard before. That's my intention... Like my singing, all I try to do is I just push myself into things where I think I can't reach notes and stuff. Sometimes it sounds really ridiculous, but then you just kind of work on it.\" A 2015 concert review described her voice as one so powerful that it \"can strip the chrome off a bumper.\"\n\nIn Babes in Toyland, Bjelland's instrumentation and songwriting has been described as \"ugly, crunching post-punk,\" supplemented by \"rudimentary\" guitar chords. She learned to play guitar from her uncle, David Higgenbotham, with whom she played in his band, The Neurotics, prior to forming Babes in Toyland. Commenting on her guitar playing, Bjelland said: \"I think it's not the quantity but the quality, and I don't think it's the speed you play, it's the soul that comes out.\" In an interview with John Peel, she reveled that she had never played with an effects pedal until 1993: \"If you learn how to play without effects, you have to learn how to make your guitar speak instead of the electronics.\"\n\nBjelland was married to Australian musician Stuart Gray from 1992 to 1994, and later to drummer Adrian Johnson. She has one son, Henry, born 1999, with Johnson. Bjelland has suffered with mental health issues and substance abuse problems throughout her life, and claimed to have had a nervous breakdown after the death of Kurt Cobain in 1994: \"[I was in Seattle after he died] to hang out with Courtney and support her. In the funeral home, I saw him dead, which was more than disturbing... I had a nervous breakdown right after that.\" During her original tenure with Babes in Toyland, Bjelland began using heroin, though she denied using it regularly while touring. \"Let me make this clear: I never really did heroin on tour,\" she said in 2011. \"When I came home and was bored and depressed [and] with money, yeah, that's when I would do it. In my whole career on tour, I'm thinkin', I did it maybe three times.\" To kick her habit prior to going on tours, Bjelland would binge drink through withdrawal symptoms.\n\nIn 2007, Bjelland suffered a schizophrenic episode for which she was institutionalized. She commented on the event, saying: \"I don't know how I've progressed musically as such but a major influence in my writing was dealing with my whole schizophrenia episode. I actually haven't spoken to anyone much about this. Dealing with multiple personalities was extremely difficult because some days I didn't know who I was or where I was at. I was very lucky that Adrian stuck by and helped me through it all. So obviously that was going to affect some of what I wrote about.\" She was later diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder.\n\nBjelland has referred to former bandmate Courtney Love as her \"soul sister,\" commenting in a 2001 interview: \"I haven't spoken to Courtney for years but soul sisters don't need to. There will always be a bond between us, regardless of whether we speak or not.\" In the 1990s, Bjelland and Love were often pitted against one another as rivals in media, with frequent comparisons between the two's visual appearances, and had a falling out after Bjelland told a reporter: \"Only about a quarter of what Courtney says is true. But nobody usually bothers to decipher which are the lies. She's all about image.\" Babes in Toyland's original bassist, Michelle Leon, claimed the rivalry between Love and Bjelland was \"blown totally out of proportion,\" while Bjelland added in a 2011 interview: \"The media did that, and it was really hurtful to me for a long time. They'd say it's some kind of battle. Which it wasn't. We were friends.\" Bjelland participated in the \"Behind the Music\" segment on Love in 2010.\n\nBabes in Toyland\n\n\nCrunt\n\nKatastrophy Wife\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10203699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10203699", "title": "Kathleen Lynn", "text": "Kathleen Lynn\n\nKathleen Florence Lynn (28 January 1874 – 14 September 1955) was an Irish Sinn Féin politician, activist and medical doctor. She was born in Killala, Co Mayo, the daughter of a Church of Ireland rector.\n\nLynn was so greatly affected by the poverty and disease among the poor in the west of Ireland that, at 16, she decided to be a doctor. She was educated in England and Germany, before enrolling in the Royal University of Ireland, a forerunner to the UCD School of Medicine. Following her graduation in 1899, Lynn went to the United States, where she worked for ten years, before returning to Ireland to become the first female doctor at the Royal Victoria Eye and Ear Hospital (1910–1916). In 1919, she founded Saint Ultan's Children's Hospital.\n\nKathleen Lynn was born on 28 January 1874 to a Church of Ireland clergyman, Robert Young Lynn, and his wife, Catherine Wynne, and was their second eldest child of their four children. Kathleen's older sister was called Anne Elizabeth and was born in 1873 with her younger sister Emily Muriel following behind Kathleen in 1876 to be followed by her younger brother and youngest sibling, John.\n\nKathleen was born in the townland of Mullafarry, near Killala in County Mayo. In 1882, the family moved to Shrule in County Longford where her father took over as the clergyman of the Ballymahon parish. Later on in her young life, in 1886 Kathleen and her family moved to Cong, a village bordering Mayo and Galway to where her father's parish was being funded by the Lady Ardilaun of Ashford Castle. Kathleen was sent to the Alexandra College, of which Lady Ardilaun was the patron, in Dublin which she attended till she was sixteen years old. She was distantly related to Countess Markievicz through her aunt's marriage. Growing up in the aftermath of The Great Famine (1845 – 1852), Kathleen was deeply saddened by the deadly diseases and poverty suffered by the people in her local area. This led to her desire at sixteen, when she left school, to become a doctor.\n\nLynn's family didn't approve of her role in the rising. In fact, at the time, Lynn's family were so disgusted with her activities that they would not let her return home to Cong, Co.Mayo, for Christmas. She instead had to spend Christmas 1917 with her aunt Florence in Dublin. She did the same the following year, though she longed to spend Christmas with her family in Mayo. This personal split was eventually settled before her father's death in 1923.\n\nLynn lived in Rathmines from 1903 to her death in 1955, sharing her home with her life partner Madeleine ffrench-Mullen. Lynn's diaries and letters provide an insight into this loving and long lived relationship. Lynn died on 14 September 1955, and is buried in the family plot at Deansgrange Cemetery. In acknowledgement of the role she played in the 1916 Rising and the Irish War of Independence, she was buried with full military honours.\n\nLynn's personal diaries for the period 1916–1955, and the administrative papers of Saint Ultan's Hospital are held by the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland archive.\n\nIn 1891 Kathleen Lynn went as a boarder to Alexandra College, Dublin, from where she matriculated in 1893 from the Royal University of Ireland. From October 1897 Lynn took classes at the Catholic University of Ireland's school of medicine in Cecilia Street, Dublin, and in the Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland. In 1898 she won the Barker anatomical prize awarded by the college. She graduated MB BCh BAO from the Royal University of Ireland in 1899. Lynn conducted her internships at HollesStreet Hospital (1897–9), the Rotunda Hospital (1899), the Royal Victoria Eye and Ear Hospital (1899), and at the Richmond Lunatic Asylum. In 1898 Lynn was appointed the first woman resident doctor at Dublin's Adelaide Hospital, but staff opposition to her appointment meant she did not take up the post. She completed postgraduate work in the United States in the early 1900s before working as a duty doctor at hospitals in the city of Dublin as part of her wider general practice based at her home at 9 Belgrave Road, Rathmines, Dublin. Lynn became a fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland in 1909, and was promoted to clinical assistant in the Royal Victoria Eye and Ear Hospital in the same year.\n\nLynn was a member of the executive committee of the Irish Women's Suffragette and Local Government Association (IWSLGA) from 1903, and remained on the executive until 1916. Lynn was a member of the radical British Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU) from 1908 and she was also said to be on friendly terms with the suffragist Sylvia Pankhurst. She was part of a mass meeting in 1912, demanding that women's suffrage be included in the Third Home Rule Bill of that year.\n\nLynn supported the workers during the 1913 lock-out and worked with Constance Markievicz and others in the soup kitchens in Liberty Hall, becoming close to Markievicz and James Connolly. In 1913, at Markievicz's request, she treated Helena Molony. Molony, who was active in a number of political movements, stayed with Lynn in her Rathmines home following an illness. As a result of the influence of Molony and Markievicz, Lynn became an active participant in the suffragist, labour and nationalist movements. \"We used to have long talks and she converted me to the National Movement,\" Lynn wrote. She joined the Irish Citizen Army and was chief medical officer during the 1916 Easter Rising. She described herself as \"a Red Cross doctor and a belligerent\" when she was arrested.\n\nFor her part in the Rising, Lynn was imprisoned in Kilmainham Gaol with her comrades Markievicz, Molony and Madeleine ffrench-Mullen. Lynn remained active in the Nationalist movement; she was elected vice-president of the Sinn Féin executive in 1917 and in 1923, Lynn was elected to Dáil Éireann as a Sinn Féin Teachta Dála (TD) for the Dublin County constituency at the 1923 general election. In accordance with Sinn Féin abstentionist policy of the time, she did not take her seat in Dáil Éireann. She lost her seat in the June 1927 general election. She unsuccessfully contested the August 1927 by-election for Dublin County. Lynn claimed, many years after the 1916 rising, that it was suffrage that converted her to republicanism, saying: \"I saw that people got the wrong impression about suffrage and that led me to examine the Irish question.\" She was given a gold fibula bone-shaped brooch as a token of gratitude from the Irish Citizen Army for her help in the medical preparation for the Rising.\n\nLynn eventually left politics in 1927, increasingly frustrated by Sinn Féin's refusal to embrace social reform and health care.\n\nLynn decided to become a doctor when she was 16. She was one of the first female medical graduates from University College Dublin. Lynn became politically active and worked in Liberty Hall providing food and care for the poor and destitute families during the turbulent time of the 1913 Dublin Lock-Out. Lynn's medical career was defined by her work at Saint Ultan's Children's Hospital, which she established in Dublin in 1919, with a group of female activists. Lynn's work with Dublin's inner-city poor had convinced her of the need for a hospital to provide medical and educational facilities for impoverished mothers and infants. Earlier in her career, Lynn had experienced discrimination in applying for hospital positions due to her gender, and Saint Ultan's was the only hospital in Ireland entirely managed by women. Saint Ultan's Hospital grew rapidly, and from 1937 became the centre for BCG vaccination in Ireland. The hospital closed in 1983.\nDr. Lynn (along with writer Sean O'Casey) advocated the use of the Irish language in Church of Ireland liturgy and many events for St. Ultans were advertised in the Irish language.\n\nLynn died in 1955 and was buried with full military honours in recognition of her role in the Rising and the War of Independence. She was so well known that crowds in Dublin lined the streets to show their respects.\n\nAfter Lynn's death, Éamon de Valera set up the Kathleen Lynn Memorial Committee, which lasted for eight straight years and resulted in the opening of a surgical unit at St. Ultan's Hospital in 1964, which eventually shut in 1975 due to funding difficulties.\n\nFour diaries recorded by Lynn between 1916 and 1955 were transcribed over two years by librarian Margaret Connolly. The detailed diaries chronicle her medical, political and social life and are held at the Royal College of Physicians in Ireland archive. They provided source material for the 2010 documentary entitled ‘Kathleen Lynn – An Dochtúir Reabhlóideach’ by Loop Line Film and director Sé Merry Doyle.\n\nHistorian Margaret Ó hÓgartaigh wrote her biography, \"Kathleen Lynn, Irishwoman, Patriot, Doctor\" (Irish Academic Press, 2006).\n\n"}
{"id": "13783321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13783321", "title": "Keith Lofstrom", "text": "Keith Lofstrom\n\nKeith Lofstrom is an American electrical engineer. He has a BSEE and MSEE from University of California, Berkeley.\nHe is more widely known in the space advocacy community for a ground-based space launcher design, the Launch Loop,\nfor which he has been credited by name in several works of science fiction.\nFrederik Pohl, who used the idea in several of his stories, once wrote that, of all the non-rocket spacelaunch concepts, he liked the Lofstrom Loop \"best of all.\"\n\nAs an electrical engineer, Lofstrom specializes in mixed-signal integrated circuit design. A paper he wrote on boundary scan methods was one of two to receive an Honorable Mention at the 1997 IEEE International Test Conference.\nOne of his 9 patents is for a way to read an individual digital ID for integrated circuits that arises from random atomic variations inherent in the semiconductor device fabrication process.\n\nOne of his more recent efforts in speculative space systems is Server Sky, a very large satellite constellation in Earth orbit using thin-film solar cells to power data center computers integrated into the same wafers as the PV cells.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18984536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18984536", "title": "List of English people", "text": "List of English people\n\nListed below are English people of note and some notable individuals born in England.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also List of English inventions and discoveries\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following were born English, but changed nationality later in their life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21525046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21525046", "title": "List of Marvel Comics nicknames", "text": "List of Marvel Comics nicknames\n\nMarvel Comics Editor-in-Chief Stan Lee was known for bestowing humorous nicknames on himself, as well as Marvel's other creators, members of the \"Bullpen,\" and various staff members (i.e.., \"Marveldom Assembled\"). Later editors-in-chief like Roy Thomas and Archie Goodwin continued the tradition, until Jim Shooter discontinued the practice in the 1980s. It was re-established by Mark Gruenwald when he started editing \"Bullpen Bulletins\" in the late 1980s. The convention was inspired, at least in part, by a Hollywood tradition, where character actors in particular were given colorful nicknames to aid in their name recognition.\n\nMonikers like Stan \"The Man\" Lee and Jack \"King\" Kirby permeated into mass culture. This is a list of those nicknames.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25791697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25791697", "title": "List of covers of Time magazine (1940s)", "text": "List of covers of Time magazine (1940s)\n\nThis is a list of people appearing on the cover of \"Time\" magazine in the 1940s. \"Time\" was first published in 1923. As \"Time\" became established as one of the United States' leading newsmagazines, an appearance on the cover of \"Time\" became an indicator of a person's notability, fame or notoriety. Such features were accompanied by articles about the person.\n\nFor other decades, see Lists of people on the cover of \"Time\" magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "45452371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45452371", "title": "List of people from American Samoa", "text": "List of people from American Samoa\n\nThis is a list of people from American Samoa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58198", "title": "Mikhail Bakunin", "text": "Mikhail Bakunin\n\nMikhail Alexandrovich Bakunin (; – 1 July 1876) was a Russian revolutionary anarchist and founder of collectivist anarchism. He is considered among the most influential figures of anarchism and one of the principal founders of the social anarchist tradition. Bakunin's enormous prestige as an activist made him one of the most famous ideologues in Europe, and he gained substantial influence among radicals throughout Russia and Europe.\n\nBakunin grew up in Pryamukhino, a family estate in Tver Governorate, where he moved to study philosophy and began to read the French encyclopédistes, leading to enthusiasm for the philosophy of Fichte. From Fichte, Bakunin went on to immerse himself in the works of Hegel, the most influential thinker among German intellectuals at the time. That led to his embrace of Hegelianism, bedazzled by Hegel's famous maxim: \"Everything that exists is rational\". In 1840, Bakunin traveled to Saint Petersburg and Berlin with the intention of preparing himself for a professorship in philosophy or history at the University of Moscow. In 1842, Bakunin moved from Berlin to Dresden. Eventually he arrived in Paris, where he met Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and Karl Marx.\n\nBakunin's increasing radicalism—including staunch opposition to imperialism in east and central Europe by Russia and other powers—changed his life, putting an end to hopes of a professorial career. He was eventually deported from France for speaking against Russia's oppression of Poland. In 1849, Bakunin was apprehended in Dresden for his participation in the Czech rebellion of 1848 and turned over to Russia where he was imprisoned in the Peter-Paul Fortress in Saint Petersburg. He remained there until 1857, when he was exiled to a work camp in Siberia. Escaping to Japan, the United States and finally ending up in London for a short time, he worked with Alexander Herzen on the journal \"Kolokol\" (\"The Bell\"). In 1863, he left to join the insurrection in Poland, but he failed to reach his destination and instead spent some time in Switzerland and Italy.\n\nIn 1868, Bakunin joined the socialist International Working Men's Association, a federation of trade unions and workers' organizations, which had sections in many European countries as well as in Latin America and (after 1872) in North Africa and the Middle East. The Bakuninist or anarchist trend rapidly expanded in influence, especially in Spain, which constituted the largest section of the International at the time. A showdown loomed with Marx, who was a key figure in the General Council of the International. The 1872 Hague Congress was dominated by a struggle between Marx and his followers, who argued for the use of the state to bring about socialism; and the Bakunin/anarchist faction, which argued instead for the replacement of the state by federations of self-governing workplaces and communes. Bakunin could not attend the congress as he could not reach the Netherlands. Bakunin's faction present at the conference lost and Bakunin was (in Marx's view) expelled for supposedly maintaining a secret organisation within the international.\n\nFrom 1870 to 1876, Bakunin wrote some of his longer works, such as \"Statism and Anarchy\" and \"God and the State\". However, Bakunin remained a direct participant in struggles. In 1870, he was involved in an insurrection in Lyon, France, which foreshadowed the Paris Commune. The Paris Commune closely corresponded to many elements of Bakunin's anarchist programme—self-management, mandates delegates, a militia system with elected officers and decentralisation. Anarchists like Élisée Reclus and those in the tradition of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon—who had greatly influenced Bakunin—were key figures in the Commune. Despite declining health, much a result of his years of imprisonment, Bakunin also sought to take part in a communal insurrection involving anarchists in Bologna, Italy, but was forced to return to Switzerland in disguise, where he settled in Lugano. He remained active in the workers' and peasants' movements of Europe and was also a major influence on movements in Egypt and Latin America.\n\nMikhail Alexandrovich Bakunin was born to a Russian noble family \"of only modest means\" (they owned 500 serfs))in the village situated between Torzhok and Kuvshinovo. His father Alexander Mikhailovich Bakunin (1768–1854) () was a career diplomat who spent years serving in Italy and France and upon his return settled down at the paternal estate and turned a Marshal of Nobility. According to the family legend, the Bakunin dynasty was founded in 1492 by one of the three brothers of the noble Báthory family who left Hungary to serve under Vasili III of Russia. In reality, the first documented ancestor was a Moscow dyak (clerk) Nikifor Evdokimov nicknamed Bakunya (from the Russian \"bakunya\", \"bakulya\" meaning \"chatterbox, phrase monger\") who lived during the 17th century. Alexander's mother, knyazna Lubov Petrovna Myshetskaya, belonged to the impoverished Upper Oka Principalities branch of the Rurik dynasty founded by Mikhail Yurievich Tarussky, grandson of Michael of Chernigov.\n\nIn 1810, Bakunin married Varvara Alexandrovna Muravyova (1792—1864) who was 24 years younger than him. She came from the ancient noble Muravyov family that was founded during the 15th century by the Ryazan boyar Ivan Vasilievich Alapovsky nicknamed Muravey (translates simply as \"ant\") who was granted lands in Veliky Novgorod. Among her second cousins were Nikita Muravyov and Sergey Muravyov-Apostol, some of the key figures of the Decembrist revolt. Alexander's commitment to liberal ideas also led to his involvement with one in the Decembrist clubs. After Nicolas I became an Emperor, he gave up politics and devoted himself to the estate and his children—five girls and five boys, the oldest of whom was Mikhail.\n\nAt the age of 14, Bakunin left for Saint Petersburg and became a Junker at the Artillery School (known as Mikhailovskaya Military Artillery Academy today). In 1833, he received a rank of Praporshchik and was seconded to serve in the Minsk and Grodno Governorates in one of the artillery brigades. He did not enjoy army and having a lot of free time on his hands spent it on self-education. In 1835, he was seconded to Tver and from there went straight to his village. Though his father wished him to continue in either the military or the civil service, Bakunin decided to abandon both and made his way to Moscow, hoping to study philosophy.\n\nIn Moscow, Bakunin soon became friends with a group of former university students and engaged in the systematic study of idealist philosophy, grouped around the poet Nikolay Stankevich, \"the bold pioneer who opened to Russian thought the vast and fertile continent of German metaphysics\" (E. H. Carr). The philosophy of Immanuel Kant initially was central to their study, but they progressed to Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, Johann Gottlieb Fichte and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. By autumn 1835, Bakunin had conceived of forming a philosophical circle in his home town of Pryamukhino. Moreover, by early 1836 he was back in Moscow, where he published translations of Fichte's \"Some Lectures Concerning the Scholar's Vocation\" and \"The Way to a Blessed Life\", which became his favorite book. With Stankevich, Bakunin also read Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Friedrich Schiller and E. T. A. Hoffmann.\n\nBakunin became increasingly influenced by Hegel and provided the first Russian translation of his work. During this period, he met slavophile Konstantin Aksakov, Piotr Chaadaev and the socialists Alexander Herzen and Nikolay Ogarev. In this period he began to develop his panslavic views. After long wrangles with his father, Bakunin went to Berlin in 1840. His stated plan at the time was still to become a university professor (a \"priest of truth\" as he and his friends imagined it), but he soon encountered and joined students of the Young Hegelians and the socialist movement in Berlin. In his 1842 essay \"The Reaction in Germany\", he argued in favor of the revolutionary role of negation, summed up in the phrase \"the passion for destruction is a creative passion\".\n\nAfter three semesters in Berlin, Bakunin went to Dresden where he became friends with Arnold Ruge. Here, he also read Lorenz von Stein's \"Der Sozialismus und Kommunismus des heutigen Frankreich\" and developed a passion for socialism. He abandoned his interest in an academic career, devoting more and more of his time to promoting revolution. The Russian government, becoming aware of this activity, ordered him to return to Russia. On his refusal, his property was confiscated. Instead, he went with Georg Herwegh to Zürich, Switzerland.\n\nDuring his six-month stay in Zürich, Bakunin became closely associated with German communist Wilhelm Weitling. Until 1848, he remained on friendly terms with the German communists, occasionally calling himself a communist and writing articles on communism in the \"Schweitzerische Republikaner\". He moved to Geneva in western Switzerland shortly before Weitling's arrest. His name had appeared frequently in Weitling's correspondence seized by the police. This led to reports being circulated to the imperial police. The Russian ambassador in Bern ordered Bakunin to return to Russia, but instead he went to Brussels, where he met many leading Polish nationalists, such as Joachim Lelewel, co-member with Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels at Brussels. Lelewel greatly influenced him, but he clashed with the Polish nationalists over their demand for a historic Poland based on the borders of 1776 (before the Partitions of Poland) as he defended the right of autonomy for the non-Polish peoples in these territories. He also did not support their clericalism and they did not support his calls for the emancipation of the peasantry.\n\nIn 1844, Bakunin went to Paris, then a centre of the European political current. He established contact with Karl Marx and Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, who greatly impressed him and with whom he formed a personal bond. In December 1844, Emperor Nicholas issued a decree that stripped Bakunin of his privileges as a noble, confiscated his land in Russia, and condemned him to lifelong exile in Siberia. He responded with a long letter to \"La Réforme\", denouncing the Emperor as a despot and calling for democracy in Russia and Poland (Carr, p. 139). In another letter to the \"Constitutionel\" in March 1846, he defended Poland following the repression of Catholics there. Some Polish refugees from Kraków following the defeat of the uprising there invited him to speak at the meeting in November 1847 commemorating the Polish November Uprising of 1830.\n\nIn his speech, Bakunin called for an alliance between the Polish and Russian peoples against the Emperor, and looked forward to \"the definitive collapse of despotism in Russia.\" As a result, he was expelled from France and went to Brussels. Bakunin's attempt to draw Alexander Herzen and Vissarion Belinsky into conspiratorial action for revolution in Russia fell on deaf ears. In Brussels, Bakunin renewed his contacts with revolutionary Poles and Karl Marx. He spoke at a meeting organised by Lelewel in February 1848 about a great future for the Slavs, whose destiny was to rejuvenate the Western world. Around this time the Russian embassy circulated rumours that Bakunin was a Russian agent who had exceeded his orders.\n\nAs the revolutionary movement of 1848 broke out, Bakunin was ecstatic, despite disappointment that little was happening in Russia. Bakunin obtained funding from some socialists in the Provisional Government, Ferdinand Flocon, Louis Blanc, Alexandre Auguste Ledru-Rollin and Alexandre Martin, for a project for a Slav federation liberating those under the rule of Prussia, Austria-Hungary and Ottoman Empire. He left for Germany travelling through Baden to Frankfurt and Cologne.\n\nBakunin supported the German Democratic Legion led by Herwegh in an abortive attempt to join Friedrich Hecker's insurrection in Baden. He broke with Marx over the latter's criticism of Herwegh. Much later in 1871, Bakunin was to write: I must openly admit that in this controversy Marx and Engels were in the right. With characteristic insolence, they attacked Herwegh personally when he was not there to defend himself. In a face-to-face confrontation with them, I heatedly defended Herwegh, and our mutual dislike began then.\n\nBakunin went on to Berlin but was stopped by the police from traveling to Posen, part of Polish territories gained by Prussia in the Partitions of Poland, where a nationalist insurrection was taking place. Instead Bakunin went to Leipzig and Breslau and then on to Prague where he participated in the First Pan Slav Congress. The Congress was followed by an abortive insurrection that Bakunin had sought to promote and intensify but which was violently suppressed.\n\nRichard Wagner writes in his autobiography about Bakunin's visit:\n\nBakunin published his \"Appeal to the Slavs\" in the fall of 1848, in which he proposed that Slav revolutionaries unite with Hungarian, Italian and German revolutionaries to overthrow the three major European autocracies, the Russian Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and the Kingdom of Prussia.\n\nBakunin played a leading role in the May Uprising in Dresden in 1849, helping to organize the defense of the barricades against Prussian troops with Richard Wagner and Wilhelm Heine. Bakunin was captured in Chemnitz and held for thirteen months before being condemned to death by the government of Saxony. His sentence was commuted to life to allow his extradition to Russia and Austria both of whom were seeking to prosecute him. In June 1850, he was handed over to the Austrian authorities. Eleven months later he received a further death sentence but this too was commuted to life imprisonment. Finally, in May 1851, Bakunin was handed over to the Russian authorities.\n\nBakunin was taken to the Peter and Paul Fortress. At the beginning of his captivity, Count Orlov, an emissary of the Tsar, visited Bakunin and told him that the Tsar requested a written confession.\n\nAfter three years in the underground dungeons of the Fortress of St Peter and St Paul, he spent another four years in the castle of Shlisselburg. It was here that he suffered from scurvy and all his teeth fell out as a result of the diet. He later recounted that he found some relief in mentally re-enacting the legend of Prometheus. His continuing imprisonment in these awful conditions led him to entreat his brother to supply him with poison.\nNovelist Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn in his book \"The Gulag Archipelago\" (published in 1973) recounts that Bakunin \"abjectly groveled before Nicholas I — thereby avoiding execution. Was this wretchedness of soul? Or revolutionary cunning?\".\n\nFollowing the death of Nicholas I, the new Tsar Alexander II personally struck Bakunin's name off the amnesty list. In February 1857, his mother's pleas to the Tsar were finally heeded and he was allowed to go into permanent exile in the western Siberian city of Tomsk. Within a year of arriving in Tomsk, Bakunin married Antonina Kwiatkowska, the daughter of a Polish merchant. He had been teaching her French. In August 1858, Bakunin received a visit from his second cousin, General Count Nikolay Muravyov-Amursky, who had been governor of Eastern Siberia for ten years.\n\nMuravyov was a liberal and Bakunin, as his relative, became a particular favourite. In the spring of 1859 Muravyov helped Bakunin with a job for Amur Development Agency which enabled him to move with his wife to Irkutsk, the capital of Eastern Siberia. This enabled Bakunin to be part of the circle involved in political discussions centred on Muravyov's colonial headquarters. Resenting the treatment of the colony by the Saint Petersburg bureaucracy, including its use as a dumping ground for malcontents, a proposal for a \"United States of Siberia\" emerged, independent of Russia and federated into a new \"United States of Siberia and America\", following the example of the United States of America. The circle included Muravyov's young Chief of Staff Kukel, who Peter Kropotkin related had the complete works of Alexander Herzen; the civil governor Izvolsky, who allowed Bakunin to use his address for correspondence; and Muravyov's deputy and eventual successor, General Alexander Dondukov-Korsakov.\n\nWhen Herzen criticised Muravyov in \"The Bell\", Bakunin wrote vigorously in his patron's defence. Bakunin tired of his job as a commercial traveller, but thanks to Muravyov's influence, was able to keep his sinecure (worth 2,000 roubles a year) without having to perform any duties. Muravyov was forced to retire from his post as governor general, partly because of his liberal views and partly due to fears he might take Siberia towards independence. He was replaced by Korsakov, who perhaps was even more sympathetic to the plight of the Siberian exiles. Korsakov was also related to Bakunin, Bakunin's brother Paul having married his cousin. Taking Bakunin's word, Korsakov issued him with a letter giving him passage on all ships on the Amur River and its tributaries as long as he was back in Irkutsk when the ice came.\n\nOn 5 June 1861, Bakunin left Irkutsk under cover of company business, ostensibly employed by a Siberian merchant to make a trip to Nikolaevsk. By 17 July, he was on board the Russian warship \"Strelok\" bound for Kastri. However, in the port of Olga, Bakunin managed to persuade the American captain of the SS \"Vickery\" to take him on board. Despite bumping into the Russian Consul on board, Bakunin was able to sail away under the nose of the Russian Imperial Navy. By 6 August he had reached Hakodate in the northernmost Japanese island of Hokkaidō and was soon in Yokohama.\n\nIn Japan, Bakunin met by chance Wilhelm Heine, one of his comrades-in arms from Dresden. He also met the German botanist Philipp Franz von Siebold who had been involved in opening up Japan to Europeans (particularly Russians and the Dutch) and was a friend of Bakunin's patron Muraviev. Von Siebold's son wrote some 40 years later:\nWith his ideas still developing, Bakunin left Japan from Kanagawa on the SS \"Carrington\", as one of nineteen passengers including Heine, Rev. P. F. Koe and Joseph Heco. Heco was a Japanese American, who eight years later played a significant role giving political advice to Kido Takayoshi and Itō Hirobumi during the revolutionary overthrow of the feudal Tokugawa shogunate. They arrived in San Francisco on 15 October. In the period before the transcontinental railroads had been completed, the quickest way to New York was via Panama. Bakunin boarded the \"Orizaba\" for Panama, where after waiting for two weeks he boarded the \"Champion\" for New York.\n\nIn Boston, Bakunin visited Karol Forster, a partisan of Ludwik Mieroslawski during the 1848 Revolution in Paris, and caught up with other \"Forty-Eighters\", veterans of the 1848 revolutions in Europe, such as Friedrich Kapp. He then sailed for Liverpool arriving on December 27. Bakunin immediately went to London to see Herzen. That evening he burst into the drawing-room where the family was having supper. \"What! Are you sitting down eating oysters! Well! Tell me the news. What is happening, and where?!\"\n\nHaving re-entered Western Europe, Bakunin immediately immersed himself in the revolutionary movement. In 1860, while still in Irkutsk, Bakunin and his political associates had been greatly impressed by Giuseppe Garibaldi and his expedition to Sicily, during which he declared himself dictator in the name of Victor Emmanuel II. Following his return to London, he wrote to Garibaldi on 31 January 1862:\n\nBakunin asked Garibaldi to participate in a movement encompassing Italians, Hungarians and South Slavs against both Austria and Turkey. Garibaldi was then engaged in preparations for the Expedition against Rome. By May, Bakunin's correspondence focused on Italian-Slavic unity and the developments in Poland. By June, he had resolved to move to Italy, but was waiting for his wife to join him. When he left for Italy in August, Mazzini wrote to Maurizio Quadrio, one of his key supporters that Bakunin was a good and dependable person. However, with the news of the failure at Aspromonte Bakunin paused in Paris where he was briefly involved with Ludwik Mierosławski. However, Bakunin rejected Mieroslawski's chauvinism and refusal to grant any concessions to the peasants.\n\nBakunin returned to England in September and focussed on Polish affairs. When the Polish insurrection broke out in January 1863, he sailed to Copenhagen where he hoped to join the Polish insurgents. They planned to sail across the Baltic in the SS \"Ward Jackson\" to join the insurrection. This attempt failed, and Bakunin met his wife in Stockholm before returning to London. Now he focussed again on going to Italy and his friend Aurelio Saffi wrote him letters of introduction for Florence, Turin and Milan. Mazzini wrote letters of commendation to Federico Campanella in Genoa and Giuseppe Dolfi in Florence. Bakunin left London in November 1863 travelling by way of Brussels, Paris and Vevey (Switzerland) arriving in Italy on 11 January 1864. It was here that he first began to develop his anarchist ideas. Bakunin conceived the plan of forming a secret organization of revolutionaries to carry on propaganda work and prepare for direct action. He recruited Italians, Frenchmen, Scandinavians, and Slavs into the International Brotherhood, also called the Alliance of Revolutionary Socialists.\n\nBy July 1866, Bakunin was informing Herzen and Ogarev about the fruits of his work over the previous two years. His secret society then had members in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Belgium, England, France, Spain, and Italy, as well as Polish and Russian members. Among his Polish associates was the former insurgent, Walery Mroczkowski who became a friend and translator into French. In his \"Catechism of a Revolutionary\" of 1866, he opposed religion and the state, advocating the \"absolute rejection of every authority including that which sacrifices freedom for the convenience of the state.\"\nGiuseppe Fanelli met Bakunin at Ischia in 1866. In October 1868, Bakunin sponsored Fanelli to travel to Barcelona to share his libertarian visions and recruit revolutionists to the International Workingmen's Association. Fanelli's trip and the meeting he organised during his travels provided the catalyst for the Spanish exiles, the largest workers' and peasants' movement in modern Spain and the largest Anarchist movement in modern Europe. Fanelli's tour took him first to Barcelona, where he met and stayed with Elisée Reclus. Reclus and Fanelli were at odds over Reclus' friendships with Spanish republicans, and Fanelli soon left Barcelona for Madrid. Fanelli stayed in Madrid until the end of January 1869, conducting meetings to introduce Spanish workers, including Anselmo Lorenzo, to the First International. In February 1869 Fanelli left Madrid, journeying home via Barcelona. While in Barcelona again, he met with painter Josep Lluís Pellicer and his cousin, Rafael Farga Pellicer along with others who were to play an important role establishing the International in Barcelona, as well as the Alliance section.\n\nDuring the 1867–1868 period, Bakunin responded to Émile Acollas's call and became involved in the League of Peace and Freedom (LPF), for which he wrote a lengthy essay \"Federalism, Socialism, and Anti-Theologism\" Here he advocated a federalist socialism, drawing on the work of Proudhon. He supported freedom of association and the right of secession for each unit of the federation, but emphasized that this freedom must be joined with socialism for \"[l]iberty without socialism is privilege, injustice; socialism without liberty is slavery and brutality\".\n\nBakunin played a prominent role in the Geneva Conference (September 1867), and joined the Central Committee. The founding conference was attended by 6,000 people. As Bakunin rose to speak:\nAt the Bern Congress of the League (1868), Bakunin and other socialists (Élisée Reclus, Aristide Rey, Jaclard, Giuseppe Fanelli, N. Joukovsky, V. Mratchkovsky and others) found themselves in a minority. They seceded from the League establishing their own International Alliance of Socialist Democracy which adopted a revolutionary socialist program.\n\nIn 1868, Bakunin joined the Geneva section of the First International, in which he remained very active until he was expelled from the International by Karl Marx and his followers at the Hague Congress in 1872. Bakunin was instrumental in establishing branches of the International in Italy and Spain.\n\nIn 1869, the Social Democratic Alliance was refused entry to the First International on the grounds that it was an international organisation in itself, and only national organisations were permitted membership in the International. The Alliance dissolved and the various groups which it comprised joined the International separately.\n\nBetween 1869 and 1870, Bakunin became involved with the Russian revolutionary Sergey Nechayev in a number of clandestine projects. However, Bakunin publicly broke with Nechaev over what he described as the latter's \"Jesuit\" methods, by which all means were justified to achieve revolutionary ends, but privately attempted to maintain contact. \n\nIn 1870, Bakunin led a failed uprising in Lyon on the principles later exemplified by the Paris Commune, calling for a general uprising in response to the collapse of the French government during the Franco-Prussian War, seeking to transform an imperialist conflict into social revolution. In his \"Letters to A Frenchman on the Present Crisis\", he argued for a revolutionary alliance between the working class and the peasantry, advocated a system of militias with elected officers as part of a system of self-governing communes and workplaces, and argued the time was ripe for revolutionary action:\nThese ideas corresponded strikingly closely with the program of the Paris Commune of 1871, much of which was developed by followers of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon; the Marxist and Blanquist factions had voted for confrontation with the army while the Proudhonions had supported a truce. Bakunin was a strong supporter of the Commune, which was brutally suppressed by the French government. He saw the Commune as above all a \"rebellion against the State,\" and commended the Communards for rejecting not only the State but also revolutionary dictatorship. In a series of powerful pamphlets, he defended the Commune and the First International against the Italian nationalist Giuseppe Mazzini, thereby winning over many Italian republicans to the International and the cause of revolutionary socialism.\n\nBakunin's disagreements with Marx, which led to the attempt by the Marx party to expel him at the Hague Congress (see below), illustrated the growing divergence between the \"anti-authoritarian\" sections of the International, which advocated the direct revolutionary action and organization of the workers and peasants in order to abolish the state and capitalism, and the sections allied with Marx, which advocated the conquest of political power by the working class. Bakunin was \"Marx’s flamboyant chief opponent\", and \"presciently warned against the emergence of a communist authoritarianism that would take power over working people.\"\n\nThe anti-authoritarian majority, which included most sections of the International, created their own First International at the St. Imier Congress, adopted a revolutionary anarchist program, and repudiated the Hague resolutions, rescinding Bakunin's alleged expulsion. Although Bakunin accepted elements of Marx’s class analysis and theories regarding capitalism, acknowledging \"Marx’s genius\", he thought Marx's analysis was one-sided, and that Marx's methods would compromise the social revolution. More importantly, Bakunin criticized \"authoritarian socialism\" (which he associated with Marxism) and the concept of dictatorship of the proletariat which he adamantly refused.\n\nIn 1874, Bakunin retired with his young wife Antonia Kwiatkowska and three children to Minusio (near Locarno in Switzerland), in a villa called \"La Baronata\" that the leader of the Italian anarchists Carlo Cafiero had bought for him by selling his own estates in his native town Barletta (Apulia). His daughter Maria Bakunin (1873-1960) became a chemist and biologist. His daughter Sofia was the mother of Italian mathematician Renato Caccioppoli. \nBakunin died in Bern on 1 July 1876. His grave can be found in \"Bremgarten Cemetery\" of Bern, , . His original epitaph reads: \"Remember those who sacrificed everything for the freedom of their country\". In 2015 the commemorative plate was replaced in form of a bronze portrait of Bakunin by Swiss artist Daniel Garbade containing Bakunin's quote: \"By striving to do the impossible, man has always achieved what is possible\". It was sponsored by the Dadaists of Cabaret Voltaire Zurich, who adopted Bakunin post mortem.\n\nBakunin's political beliefs rejected statist and hierarchical systems of power in every name and shape, from the idea of God downwards, and every form of hierarchical authority, whether emanating from the will of a sovereign or even from a state that allowed universal suffrage. He wrote in \"God and the State\":\nBakunin similarly rejected the notion of any privileged position or class, since the social and economic inequality implied by class systems were incompatible with individual freedom. Whereas liberalism insisted that free markets and constitutional governments enabled individual freedom, Bakunin insisted that both capitalism and the state in any form were incompatible with the individual freedom of the working class and peasantry, saying:\nBakunin's political beliefs were based on several interrelated concepts: (1) liberty; (2) socialism; (3) federalism; (4) anti-theism; and (5) materialism. He also developed a critique of Marxism, predicting that if the Marxists were successful in seizing power, they would create a party dictatorship \"all the more dangerous because it appears as a sham expression of the people's will\", adding:\nBakunin thought that \"[d]oes it follow that I reject all authority? Far from me such a thought. In the matter of boots, I refer to the authority of the bootmaker; concerning houses, canals, or railroads, I consult that of the architect or the engineer. For such or such special knowledge I apply to such or such a savant. But I allow neither the bootmaker nor the architect nor savant to impose his authority upon me. I listen to them freely and with all the respect merited by their intelligence, their character, their knowledge, reserving always my incontestable right of criticism and censure. I do not content myself with consulting a single authority in any special branch; I consult several; I compare their opinions, and choose that which seems to me the soundest. But I recognise no infallible authority, even in special questions; consequently, whatever respect I may have for the honesty and the sincerity of such or such individual, I have no absolute faith in any person\".\n\nBakunin saw that \"there is no fixed and constant authority, but a continual exchange of mutual, temporary, and, above all, voluntary authority and subordination. This same reason forbids me, then, to recognise a fixed, constant and universal authority, because there is no universal man, no man capable of grasping in all that wealth of detail, without which the application of science to life is impossible, all the sciences, all the branches of social life\".\n\nAccording to political philosopher Carl Schmitt, \"in comparison with later anarchists, Proudhon was a moralistic petit bourgeois who continued to subscribe to the authority of the father and the principle of the monogamous family. Bakunin was the first to give the struggle against theology the complete consistency of an absolute naturalism...For him, therefore, there was nothing negative and evil except the theological doctrine of God and sin, which stamps man as a villain in order to provide a pretext for domination and the hunger for power.\"\n\nBakunin thought that religion originated from the human ability for abstract thinking and fantasizing. According to Bakunin, religion is sustained by indoctrination and conformism. Another factor in the survival of religion is the existence of poverty, suffering and exploitation in real life, from which religion promises the salvation in the afterlife. Oppressors take advantage from religion, according to Bakunin, because many religious people reconcile themselves with injustice on earth by the promise of happiness in heaven.\n\nBakunin argues that oppressors receive authority from religion. Religious people are in many cases obedient to the priests, because many religious people believe that the statements of priests are based on direct divine revelation or scripture. The obedience to divine revelation or scripture is considered as the ethical criteria by many religious people, because God is considered as the omniscient, omnipotent and omnibenevolent being. Therefore, each statement which is considered derived from an infallible God cannot be criticized by humans. According to this religious way of thinking, humans cannot know by themselves what is just, but that only God decides what is good or wrong. People who disobey the “messengers of God” are threatened with punishment in hell.\n\nAccording to Bakunin, the alternative for a religious power monopoly is the acknowledgement that all humans are equally inspired by God, but that means that multiple contradictory teachings are assigned to an infallible God, which is logically impossible. Therefore, Bakunin considers religion as necessarily authoritarian.\n\nBakunin argued in his book \"God and the State\" that \"the idea of God implies the abdication of human reason and justice; it is the most decisive negation of human liberty, and necessarily ends in the enslavement of mankind, in theory and practice.\" Consequently, Bakunin reversed Voltaire's famous aphorism that if God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent Him, writing instead that \"if God really existed, it would be necessary to abolish Him.\"\n\nBakunin was an early proponent of the term \"political theology\" in his 1871 text \"The Political Theology of Mazzini and the International\" to which Schmitt's book was a response. Political theology is a branch of both political philosophy and theology that investigates the ways in which theological concepts or ways of thinking underlie political, social, economic and cultural discourses.\n\nBakunin’s methods of realizing his revolutionary program were consistent with his principles. The working class and peasantry were to organize from below, through local structures interlinked on a federalist basis, \"creating not only the ideas, but also the facts of the future itself.\" Their movements would prefigure the future, in their ideas and practices, creating the building blocks of the new society.\n\nThis approach was exemplified by syndicalism, an anarchist strategy championed by Bakunin, according to which trade unions would provide both the means to defend and improve workers' conditions, rights and incomes in the present, and the basis for a social revolution based upon workplace occupations. The syndicalist unions would organize the occupations, as well as provide the radically democratic structures through which workplaces would be self-managed, and the larger economy coordinated. Thus, for Bakunin, the workers' unions would \"take possession of all the tools of production as well as buildings and capital.\"\n\nBakunin did not reduce the revolution to syndicalist unions, however, stressing the need to organize working-class neighborhoods, as well as the unemployed. Meanwhile, the peasants were to \"take the land and throw out those landlords who live by the labor of others.\" Bakunin did not dismiss the skilled workers, as is sometimes claimed; indeed, the watchmakers of the Jura region were central to the St. Imier International's creation and operations. However, at a time when unions largely ignored the unskilled, Bakunin placed great emphasis on the need to organize as well amongst \"the rabble,\" \"the great masses of the poor and exploited, the so-called \"lumpenproletariat,\" to \"inaugurate and bring to triumph the Social Revolution.\"\n\nBakunin's socialism was known as \"collectivist anarchism\", where \"socially: it seeks the confirmation of political equality by economic equality. This is not the removal of natural individual differences, but equality in the social rights of every individual from birth; in particular, equal means of subsistence, support, education, and opportunity for every child, boy or girl, until maturity, and equal resources and facilities in adulthood to create his own well-being by his own labor.\"\n\nCollectivist anarchism advocates the abolition of both the state and private ownership of the means of production. It instead envisions the means of production being owned collectively and controlled and managed by the producers themselves. For the collectivization of the means of production, it was originally envisaged that workers will revolt and forcibly collectivize the means of production. Once collectivization takes place, money would be abolished to be replaced with labour notes and workers' salaries would be determined in democratic organizations based on job difficulty and the amount of time they contributed to production. These salaries would be used to purchase goods in a communal market.\n\nThe dispute between Bakunin and Karl Marx highlighted the differences between anarchism and Marxism. He strongly rejected Marx's concept of the \"dictatorship of the proletariat\", a concept that vanguardist socialism including Marxist–Leninism would use to justify one-party rule from above by a party 'representing' the proletariat. Bakunin insisted that revolutions must be led by the people directly while any \"enlightened elite\" must only exert influence by remaining \"invisible...not imposed on anyone...[and] deprived of all official rights and significance\". He held that the state should be immediately abolished because all forms of government eventually lead to oppression. Libertarian Marxists argue Marx used the phrase to mean the worker control at the point of production, not a party, would still be a state until society is reorganized according to socialist principles.\n\nWhile both social anarchists and Marxists share the same final goal, the creation of a free, egalitarian society without social classes and government, they strongly disagree on how to achieve this goal. Anarchists believe that the classless, stateless society should be established by the direct action of the masses, culminating in social revolution, and refuse any intermediate stage such as the dictatorship of the proletariat, on the basis that such a dictatorship will become a self-perpetuating fundament. For Bakunin, the fundamental contradiction is that for the Marxists, \"anarchism or freedom is the aim, while the state and dictatorship is the means, and so, in order to free the masses, they have first to be enslaved.\"\n\nHowever, Bakunin also wrote of meeting Marx in 1844:\nBakunin found Marx's economic analysis very useful and began the job of translating \"Das Kapital\" into Russian. In turn Marx wrote of the rebels in the Dresden insurrection of 1848 that \"In the Russian refugee Michael Bakunin they found a capable and cool headed leader.\" Marx wrote to Engels of meeting Bakunin in 1864 after his escape to Siberia saying \"On the whole he is one of the few people whom I find not to have retrogressed after 16 years, but to have developed further.\"\n\nBakunin has sometimes been called the first theorist of the \"new class\", meaning that a 'class' of intellectuals and bureaucrats running the state in the name of the people or the proletariat – but in reality in their own interests alone. Bakunin argued that the \"State has always been the patrimony of some privileged class: a priestly class, an aristocratic class, a bourgeois class. And finally, when all the other classes have exhausted themselves, the State then becomes the patrimony of the bureaucratic class and then falls—or, if you will, rises—to the position of a machine.\"\n\nBy federalism, Bakunin meant the organization of society \"from the base to the summit—from the circumference to the center—according to the principles of free association and federation.\" Consequently, society would be organized \"on the basis of the absolute freedom of individuals, of the productive associations, and of the communes,\" with \"every individual, every association, every commune, every region, every nation\" having \"the absolute right to self-determination, to associate or not to associate, to ally themselves with whomever they wish.\"\n\nBy liberty, Bakunin did not mean an abstract ideal but a concrete reality based on the equal liberty of others. In a positive sense, liberty consists of \"the fullest development of all the faculties and powers of every human being, by education, by scientific training, and by material prosperity.\" Such a conception of liberty is \"eminently social, because it can only be realized in society,\" not in isolation. In a negative sense, liberty is \"the revolt of the individual against all divine, collective, and individual authority.\"\n\nBakunin denied religious concepts of a supernatural sphere, and advocated a 'materialist' explanation of natural phenomena: \"the manifestations of organic life, chemical properties and reactions, electricity, light, warmth and the natural attraction of physical bodies, constitute in our view so many different but no less closely interdependent variants of that totality of real beings which we call matter\" (\"Selected Writings\", page 219). The \"mission of science is, by observation of the general relations of passing and real facts, to establish the general laws inherent in the development of the phenomena of the physical and social world.\"\n\nBakunin had a different view as compared to Marx's on the revolutionary potential of the lumpenproletariat and the proletariat. As such, \"[b]oth agreed that the proletariat would play a key role, but for Marx the proletariat was the exclusive, leading revolutionary agent while Bakunin entertained the possibility that the peasants and even the lumpenproletariat (-proletarians in rags- the unemployed, common criminals, etc.) could rise to the occasion.\" Bakunin \"considers workers' integration in capital as destructive of more primary revolutionary forces. For Bakunin, the revolutionary archetype is found in a peasant milieu (which is presented as having longstanding insurrectionary traditions, as well as a communist archetype in its current social form—the peasant commune) and amongst educated unemployed youth, assorted marginals from all classes, brigands, robbers, the impoverished masses, and those on the margins of society who have escaped, been excluded from, or not yet subsumed in the discipline of emerging industrial work...in short, all those whom Marx sought to include in the category of the lumpenproletariat.\"\n\nBakunin is remembered as a major figure in the history of anarchism and as an opponent of Marxism, especially of Marx's idea of dictatorship of the proletariat and for his predictions that Marxist regimes would be one-party dictatorships over the proletariat, not of the proletariat itself. \"God and the State\" was translated multiple times by other anarchists, such as Benjamin Tucker, Marie Le Compte and Emma Goldman; and he continues to be an influence on modern-day anarchists, such as Noam Chomsky. Bakunin biographer Mark Leier has asserted that \"Bakunin had a significant influence on later thinkers, ranging from Peter Kropotkin and Errico Malatesta to the Wobblies and Spanish anarchists in the Civil War to Herbert Marcuse, E.P. Thompson, Neil Postman, and A.S. Neill, down to the anarchists gathered these days under the banner of 'anti-globalization.'\" In short, Bakunin has had a major influence on labour, peasant and leftwing movements, although this was overshadowed from the 1920s by the rise of Marxist regimes. With the collapse of those regimes—and growing awareness of how closely those regimes corresponded to the dictatorships Bakunin predicted—Bakunin's ideas have rapidly gained ground amongst activists, in some cases again overshadowing Marxism.\n\nBakunin has been accused of being a closet authoritarian by Marxists, Leninists and other authoritarian leftists. In his letter to Albert Richard, he wrote:\nCharles A. Madison claimed: \n\nMadison contended that it was Bakunin's scheming for control of the First International that brought about his rivalry with Karl Marx and his expulsion from it in 1872: \"His approval of violence as a weapon against the agents of oppression led to nihilism in Russia and to individual acts of terrorism elsewhere– with the result that anarchism became generally synonymous with assassination and chaos.\" However, Bakunin's supporters argue that this \"invisible dictatorship\" is not a dictatorship in any conventional sense of the word. Their influence would be ideological and freely accepted, saying:\nBakunin was also criticized by Marx and the delegates of the International specifically because his methods of organization were similar to those of Sergey Nechayev, with whom Bakunin was closely associated. While Bakunin rebuked Nechayev upon discovery of his duplicity as well as his amoral politics, he did retain a streak of ruthlessness, as indicated by a 2 June 1870 letter: \"Lies, cunning [and] entanglement [are] a necessary and marvelous means for demoralising and destroying the enemy, though \"certainly not\" a useful means of obtaining and attracting new friends.\"\n\nNevertheless, Bakunin began warning friends about Nechayev's behavior, and broke off all relations with Nechayev. Others note, moreover, that Bakunin never sought to take personal control of the International, that his secret organisations were not subject to his autocratic power, and that he condemned terrorism as counter-revolutionary. Robert M. Cutler goes further, pointing out that it is impossible fully to understand either Bakunin's participation in the League of Peace and Freedom or the International Alliance of Socialist Democracy, or his idea of a secret revolutionary organisation that is immanent in the people, without seeing that they derive from his interpretation of Hegel's dialectic from the 1840s. The script of Bakunin's dialectic, Cutler argues, gave the Alliance the purpose of providing the International with a real revolutionary organisation.\n\nIn some of his pieces, Bakunin espouses blatantly antisemitic views, and has been severely criticized for this part of his writing, not least by anarchists. Bakunin used anti-Jewish sentiments that suggested a \"Jewish\" system of global exploitation, saying:\nSignificantly, Jews would always play a large and prominent role in the anarchist movement, among them Emma Goldman, Murray Bookchin, Alexander Berkman and Voline.\n\nIn his pre-anarchist years, Bakunin's politics were essentially a left-wing form of nationalism – specifically, a focus on East Europe and Russian affairs. While Bakunin, at this time, located the national liberation and democratic struggles of the Slavs in a larger European revolutionary process, he did not pay much attention to other regions. This aspect of his thought dates from before he became an anarchist, and his anarchist works consistently envisaged a global social revolution, including both Africa and Asia. Bakunin as anarchist continued to stress the importance of national liberation, but he now insisted that this issue had to be solved as part of the social revolution. The same problem that (in his view) dogged Marxist revolutionary strategy (the capture of revolution by small elite, which would then oppress the masses) would also arise in independence struggles led by nationalism, unless the working class and peasantry created an anarchy:\nWhen Bakunin visited Japan after his escape from Siberia, he was not really involved in its politics or with the Japanese peasants. This might be taken as evidence of a basic disinterest in Asia, but that would be incorrect. Bakunin stopped over briefly in Japan as part of a hurried flight from twelve years of imprisonment, a marked man racing across the world to his European home; he had neither Japanese contacts nor any facility in the Japanese language; the small number of expatriate newspapers by Europeans published in China and Japan provided no insights into local revolutionary conditions or possibilities. Besides, Bakunin's conversion to anarchism came in 1865, towards the end of his life, and four years after his time in Japan.\n\nEnglish translations of Bakunin are generally rare when compared to the comprehensive editions in French (by Arthur Lehning), Spanish and German. An eight-volume complete works of Bakunin in English is to be published at some point in the future by AK Press; according to Ramsey Kanaan these will likely be published yearly for eight years in hardcover format.\n\nMadelaine Grawitz’s biography (Paris: Calmann Lévy 2000) remains to be translated.\n\nThe standard yet hostile English-language biography is by E. H. Carr. A new biography, \"Bakunin: The Creative Passion\", by Mark Leier, was published by St. Martin's Press on 22 August 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25077402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25077402", "title": "Mohanananda Brahmachari", "text": "Mohanananda Brahmachari\n\nMohanananda Brahmachari (17 December 1903 – 29 August 1999) was an Indian guru. He was the second Mohanta (Head) of the Ram Niwas Brahmacharya Ashram. He also created number of trusts, social service foundations, hospitals, medical centers, and schools under his Guru's name, Guru Sri Sri Balananda Brahmachari.\n\nHis childhood name was Manmohon Banerjee and was second son of Sri Hem Chandra Banerjee and Srimoti Binoyini Debi. He was at Khaprelbazar in Midnapur town of West Bengal. By birth He is descendant of Bhatta Narayan Family and belonging to \"Sandilya Gotra\". He studied at C.M.S School of Bhagalpur, and on English Medium School of Dhanbad. He passed Entrance equivalent to Matriculation / Secondary Examination in first division in the year 1920. He studied intermediate in Scottish Church College and stayed in Oglive Hostel.\n\n"}
{"id": "681800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=681800", "title": "Morlock", "text": "Morlock\n\nMorlocks are a fictional species created by H. G. Wells for his 1895 novel, \"The Time Machine\", and are the main antagonist. Since their creation by H. G. Wells, the Morlocks have appeared in many other works such as sequels, movies, television shows, and works by other authors, many of which have deviated from the original description.\n\nIn choosing the name \"Morlocks\", Wells may have been inspired by the Morlachs - an ethnic group in the Balkans which attracted the attention of West and Central European travelers and writers, including famous ones such as Johann Gottfried Herder and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, and who were described and depicted in various writings as an archetype of \"primitive people\", \"backwardness\", \"barbarism\" and the like.\n\nThe Morlocks are at first a mysterious presence in the book, in so far as the protagonist initially believes the Eloi are the sole descendants of humanity. Later, the Morlocks are made the story's antagonists. They dwell underground in the English countryside of AD 802,701, maintaining ancient machines that they may or may not remember how to build. Their only access to the surface world is through a series of well-like structures that dot the countryside of future England.\n\nAfter thousands of generations of living without sunlight, the Morlocks have dull grey-to-white skin, chinless faces, large greyish-red eyes with a capacity for reflecting light, and flaxen hair on the head and back. They are smaller than humans (presumably of the same height as the Eloi). Like the Eloi, they are significantly weaker than the average human (the Time Traveller hurt or killed some barehandedly with relative ease), but a large swarm of them can be a serious threat for a lone man, especially unarmed and/or with no portable light source. Their sensitivity to light usually prevents them from attacking during the day. The Morlocks and the Eloi have something of a symbiotic relationship: the Eloi are clothed and fed by the Morlocks, and in return, the Morlocks eat the Eloi. The Time Traveler perceives this, and suggests that the Eloi–Morlock relationship developed from a class distinction present in his own time: the Morlocks are the working class who were relegated to working and living underground so that the rich upper class could live in luxury on the surface. With time, the balance of power changed - the surface people no longer dominating the underground dwellers but instead becoming their livestock.\n\n\"The Time Ships\" (1995), by Stephen Baxter is considered by the H. G. Wells estates to be the sequel to \"The Time Machine\" (1895) and was published to mark the centennial of the original publication. In its wide-ranging narrative, the Time Traveler attempts to return to the world of tomorrow, but instead finds that his actions have changed the future: one in which the Eloi have never manifested. Instead, the Earth is a nearly barren waste that has been abandoned in favor of a 220 million kilometers wide self-sustaining sphere around the Sun drawing its energy directly from sunlight (since it entirely encompasses the star and receives its whole energy output), where the Morlocks (and several other offshoots of humanity) now live.\n\nUtterly peaceful, moralistic, and highly intelligent (Nebogipfel learns English in a matter of days and is soon able to speak it fluently - with some limitations due to the Morlocks' peculiar vocal apparatus, quite different from those of humans), the only resemblance these new Morlocks have to the monstrous cannibals of the first future is that of appearance and dwelling \"underground\". The sphere they inhabit is divided into two concentric shells, with the Morlocks living exclusively inside the nearly featureless exterior. Above them, the inner shell where the sun shines openly, is an Earth-like utopia. In its many forms and at many technological levels (from somehow familiar nowadaylike industrial worlds to worlds having antigravitional devices), they continue on here in much the same way as that of the Time Travelers era (with war being the most obvious holdover).\n\nThe Morlock civilization includes a variety of nation-groups based on thought and ideology, which individuals move between without conflict. All needs are met by the sphere itself, including reproduction where the newly born are \"extruded\" directly from the floor. These peaceful intelligent Morlocks seem also to have extraordinary resistance to disease and perhaps to radiations too, even when not in their homeworld, as stated by Nebogipfel when in the Paleocene (the Time Traveler quickly got ill there because of unknown germs, whereas Nebogipfel, though injured and disabled, suffered no apparent ill effects).\n\nThe only Morlock given a name is Nebogipfel, who remains with the Time Traveler throughout the book. Nebogipfel's name comes from the main character of H. G. Wells' first attempt at a time travel story, then called \"Chronic Argonauts.\" The character's name was Dr Moses Nebogipfel. (The name Moses was also used in \"The Time Ships\", though it is given to the younger version of himself that the Time Traveler meets on his journey.)\n\nIn K. W. Jeter's novel \"Morlock Night\", the Morlocks have stolen the Time Machine and used it to invade Victorian London. These Morlocks are much more formidable than those in \"The Time Machine\" - a clever, technological race with enough power to take over the entire world. They also get support from certain treacherous 19th century humans, especially a dark wizard named Merdenne. It is also revealed that the Morlocks living in their native time (the 8,028th century) have stopped allowing the Eloi to roam free and now keep them in pens.\n\nThe Morlocks are separated into two types, or castes, in the novel. One is the short, weak, stupid Grunt Morlocks, who are supposedly the kind that the Time Traveller encountered, and the other is the Officer Morlocks, who are taller, more intelligent, speak English, and have high rank within the Morlock invasion force. An example of the latter type is Colonel Nalga, an antagonist later in the book.\n\nThese Morlocks are always described as wearing blueish spectacles, which are presumably to protect the Morlocks' sensitive, dark-adapted eyes.\n\n\nSome authors have adopted the Morlocks and adapted them to their works, often completely unassociated with \"The Time Machine\", or were named in-universe in homage to H.G. Wells' works.\n\nThe Morlocks appeared in a story by Alan Moore titled \"Allan and the Sundered Veil\", which appeared as part of the comic book collection \"The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Volume I\". In the story, the Time Traveler takes some of the regular League characters into his future world, where he has made a base out of the Morlock sphinx. The party is soon attacked by Morlocks, who are fierce, simian creatures in this story. They are physically much more powerful than Wells' creatures, although they're similar to the Hunter Morlocks from the 2002 film.\n\nLarry Niven included a version of the Morlocks in his \"Known Space\" books. They appear as a subhuman alien race living in the caves in one region of Wunderland, which is one of humanity's colonies in the Alpha Centauri system. Many of these stories are by Hal Colebatch in the shared spin-off series, \"The Man Kzin Wars\", especially in vols. X, XI and XII. They are also mentioned in stories in the same series by M. J. Harringtom.\n\nIn Joanna Russ' short story \"The Second Inquisition,\" \"The Time Machine\" is referenced a number of times, and the unnamed character referred to as \"our guest\" (who is evidently a visitor from the future) claims to be a Morlock, although she does not physically resemble Wells' Morlocks.\n\nIn the fictional universe of Warhammer 40000, Morlocks are the elite warriors of the Iron Hands chapter of space marines and feature in several Horus Heresy novels where they act as bodyguards for their primarch Ferrus Manus.\n\nIn Neal Stephenson's essay on modern culture vis-à-vis operating system development, \"In the Beginning... was the Command Line\", he demonstrates similarities between the future in \"The Time Machine\" and contemporary American culture. He claims that most Americans have been exposed to a \"corporate monoculture\" which renders them \"unwilling to make judgments and incapable of taking stands.\" Anyone who remains outside of this \"culture\" is left with powerful tools to deal with the world, and it is they, rather than the neutered Eloi, that run things.\n\nJ. R. R. Tolkien mentioned Morlocks three times in his 1939 essay \"On Fairy-Stories\", which discusses the genre now called fantasy. The first reference occurs where Tolkien attempts to define the genre, and he suggests that the Morlocks (and Eloi) place \"The Time Machine\" more in the genre than do the Lilliputians in \"Gulliver's Travels\". He reasoned that the Lilliputians are merely diminutive humans, whereas the Morlocks and Eloi are significantly different from us, and 'live far away in an abyss of time so deep as to work an enchantment'. Another reference to the creatures of \"The Time Machine\" occurs in the essay's section \"Recovery, Escape, Consolation\". Here it's argued that fantasy offers a legitimate means of escape from the mundane world and the 'Morlockian horror of factories'. Elsewhere in his essay, Tolkien warns against separating fantasy readers into superficial categories, using the Eloi and Morlocks as a dramatic illustration of the repercussions of sundering the human race.\n\nIn the 1960 film version of \"The Time Machine\" directed by George Pal, the Morlocks are eventually defeated by the Eloi, who are motivated to fight by the Time Traveler (named George). They are shown to be quite susceptible to blows, though this may be due to them having never encountered resistance before. One of the differences of the movie Morlocks (who are blue-skinned, sloth-like brutes with glowing eyes) is that the divergence was created not by a varying caste system, but by being forced underground by a nuclear war that started in the 1960s and lasted hundreds of years.\n\nThe Morlocks in the film also have a system for summoning the Eloi into their sphinx by using air raid sirens. Supposedly, this was originally used to warn of bombing. Responding to the siren has become inborn, and the Eloi now do so like cattle. The Morlocks use whips to herd them.\n\nIn 2002, another film based on \"The Time Machine\" was directed by Simon Wells, the great-grandson of H. G. Wells. The Morlocks in this film, as well as the Eloi, have been changed in several major ways. The Morlocks have become physically stronger and faster, and are very ape-like now, frequently running on all fours. In addition, they have split into several different castes. In addition to the \"Hunter\" Morlocks, which are muscular, gorilla-like hunters, there are also the \"Spy\" Morlocks who are more slender and agile but much weaker. The Spies shoot blowpipes at escaping Eloi, marking them with a pungent substance and making it easier for the Hunters, with their powerful sense of smell, to track and capture them.\n\nAll the Morlocks are controlled by a race of Über-Morlocks, who appear more human than the other two castes seen in the movie. Instead of having grey skin and patches of fur, the Über-Morlock that appears in the film has long, flowing white hair and white skin, the general physique of a human, and clothing. His brain is so large that it doesn't fit into his head, but instead trails down his back and envelops his spine. He is telepathic and telekinetic, articulate in English speech, and eventually ends up fighting Alexander Hartdegen (the main character of this film).\n\nAs explained by the Über-Morlock (in terms of the 2002 movie), the Morlocks originated from humans that sought shelter underground, after an attempt at constructing a lunar colony on the Moon sent fragments of the Moon crashing to Earth. They remained underground for so long that they developed bodies with very little melanin in their skin and very sensitive eyes that could not tolerate sunlight for long. As a result of the past catastrophe and the resulting strain on resources, the proto-Morlocks divided themselves into several castes, two of which (the 'Hunters' and the 'Spies') could survive in the daylight. They inbred within each caste until the Morlock race became composed of genetically fine-tuned sub-races designed for specific tasks.\n\nThe movie displays three of these races: the Hunter Morlocks that hunt down and capture the Eloi, the Spy Morlocks that shoot them with blowgun darts (so as to make them detectable to the hunters), and the Über-Morlocks that command the first two races telepathically. The Morlocks seen in the movie are destroyed when Alexander causes his time machine to malfunction and explode in their tunnels.\n\nA 2011 television movie originally named \"Morlocks\" (renamed \"Time Machine: Rise of the Morlocks\") produced for Syfy, starring David Hewlett, and Robert Picardo. The plot sees a time machine open a portal to the future allowing Morlocks to travel back to the present and wreak havoc. These Morlocks are descended from a patient with terminal cancer whose father used the military time travel project to look for technology in the future as a cure. One of the first Morlocks to escape through the portal into the present is captured and has its DNA extracted; paradoxically, it is treatment with this DNA that causes the patient to mutate into the first Morlock.\n\nMorlocks are briefly referenced by the protagonist in reference to the zombie like mutant antagonists of the film.\n\nIn the serial \"Timelash\" episodes of the twenty-second season of \"Doctor Who\", the Sixth Doctor takes H. G. Wells into the future where they encounter an underground-dwelling, reptilian species called the Morlox (a homophone of \"Morlocks\"). The Borad, an evil ruler, accidentally becomes half-Morlox before the episode.\n\nIn the 1978 \"Challenge of the Superfriends\" episode titled \"Conquerors of the Future\", the Legion of Doom travelled to the future and conquered the Galaxy with the help of the Morlocks.\n\nHomer Simpson mentions Morlocks in \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Homer the Moe\", claiming he became their king while telling a shaggy dog story.\n\nIn 2003, Peak Entertainment relaunched Monster in My Pocket with former lead villain Warlock as the hero. The new villain became Warlock's evil twin, Morlock. The series was passed on by Cartoon Network and Peak's rights to \"Monster in My Pocket\" were revoked on December 22, 2004. With the series' limited distribution, it is difficult to say if the connection was more than a nominal one.\n\nIn 2006, a new incarnation of \"Power Rangers\", titled \"\", includes Morlocks as the enemies of the Power Rangers. Sources from before the show's premiere described them as \"zombie-like foot soldiers\", and it was also implied that they live underground below the town of Briarwood (where the show takes place) and plot to rise up and destroy everything. However, it has since been revealed that the Morlocks in the show are not simply foot soldiers; they comprise the entire group of enemies of the Power Rangers. The Morlocks in the show are entirely unlike those in \"The Time Machine\", except that they still live underground and are villains. These Morlocks are not portrayed as a divergent species of humanity, but instead as an ancient, evil legion who were sealed underground centuries ago. The Morlocks have finally broken the seal and are planning to invade Briarwood, and later the world. The term was used exclusively in promotional material and was never mentioned in the show.\n\nOn the episode of \"The Big Bang Theory\" called \"The Nerdvana Annihilation,\" Leonard Hofstadter and his friends chipped in to buy an original time machine prop from the 1960 film classic \"The Time Machine\". None in the group was more excited about the purchase than Sheldon Cooper, who seemed to think he was the only one able to grasp the full possibilities of owning such a unique piece of memorabilia. His viewpoint changed drastically though, after he experienced a series of episode-ending dreams, all featuring the infamous cannibalistic Morlock species from the classic H.G. Wells book. The first dream was him travelling to the future on 28 April 802701, and being eaten alive by three Morlocks. When he wakes up, Leonard agrees to get rid of the time machine, but he hires Morlocks to do it (called Starving Morlocks), and as they eat Sheldon, he wakes up again and yells for Leonard to help him.\n\nIn the 2010 episode of Futurama \"The Late Philip J. Fry,\" Bender, Farnsworth, and Fry travel to the future where they meet a society of small creatures who explain that humanity has diverged into two distinct groups through evolution. Upon returning five years later, the crew discovers that the small, intelligent creatures have been overrun and destroyed by the troglodytic \"Dumb-locks.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41483034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41483034", "title": "Mubarak Abdullah Al-Jaber Al-Sabah", "text": "Mubarak Abdullah Al-Jaber Al-Sabah\n\nSheikh Mubarak Abdullah Al-Jaber Al-Sabah (1934–1987) () was a member of the House of Sabah and one of the first Kuwaitis to attain the military rank of lieutenant general. He was one of the first Kuwaitis to be commissioned as an officer by the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, UK, and the first Kuwaiti to receive an Amiri Decree for appointment as Chief of the General Staff (in March 1963, before the age of 30). Mubarak initiated joint training of Kuwait Armed Forces and United States Armed Forces in 1977 and, the following year, was the first military officer to establish conscription.\n\nMubarak was the son of Sheikh Abdullah bin Jaber Abdullah II Al-Sabah (1899–1996); the first Minister of Education of Kuwait and Sheikha Munira bint Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah (b. 1911 in Kuwait City), eldest daughter of Sheikh Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah.\n\nMubarak joined the Directorate of Public Security Force as a Lieutenant during the period in which the directorate included the partnership of the Kuwait Army and split in 1953. The next year, he was appointed as the first deputy commander of the Kuwait Army.\n\nIn 1960, Mubarak founded the Kuwait 25th Commando Brigade, the first designated principle Commando mission initiative of Kuwait prior to the forming of the first Government of Kuwait.\n\nDuring Operation Vantage (1961), a plan for the defense of Kuwait, Brigadier General Mubarak and Colonel Saleh Mohammed Al-Sabah commanded the Kuwait 25th Commando Brigade and the Kuwait 6th Mechanized Brigade.\n\nFollowing the crisis, Brigadier General Sheikh Mubarak debated with the HM's British Armed Forces on different deterrent strategies to protect Kuwait. A team of British military experts assisted him in organizing the Kuwait Armed Forces, liaising with the British Armed Forces for training. Mubarak acted as commander of the newly formed Kuwait Armed Forces for two years. Later he was promoted to Major General and designated Kuwait's first Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces in March 1963, reporting for the first time to a minister following the formation of the first cabinet on 17 January 1962.\n\nIn June 1967, the leadership of the Kuwait Armed Forces; from the principle of Arab solidarity; participated in the Six-Day War with several Arab countries (Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria and Jordan) against the State of Israel. On the request of minister Sheikh Saad Abdullah Al-Salem Al-Sabah, Mubarak (now a Major General) along with his deputy Chief of the General Staff Brigadier General Sheikh Saleh, as acting lead combat commander, assembled an elite task force from various combat units, designated the \"Yarmouk Brigade\". Accounting for a third of the Kuwait Armed Forces, it deployed to the Egyptian front on May 29, 1967. On the morning of June 5, 1967, the Yarmouk Brigade came under fire, forcing its dispersal. The brigade, intact, regrouped and remained at the Egyptian front from 1968 to 1972 during the War of Attrition between the State of Israel and Egypt that started unofficially a week later.\n\nOngoing Kuwaiti border disputes with Iraq since Operation Vantage left the majority of the military of Kuwait on alert, deployed all around the Kuwaiti desert. In 1973 the Government of Kuwait; mainly minister Sheikh Saad Abdullah Al-Salem Al-Sabah under the guidance of the Emir of Kuwait; asked Major General Mubarak to assemble a task force to militarily aid the Arab armies deployed on the Syrian front; similarly out of the same principle redeployment of the Yarmouk Brigade engaged on the Egyptian Front in 1973. Taking into account the previous 1967, (1968–1972) and current deployment of the Yarmouk brigade on the Egyptian front, he and his deputy assembled a stronger striking force which was designated the Al Jahra Force, which consisted of infantry units, special forces, tanks, artillery, air defense systems and armored brigades. This force was assembled in the Kuwait 25th Commando Brigade and deployed to Syria in two parts on 15 October 1973 with an air component and the majority of the force by land on 20 October. The force gathered in Damascus, and was initially in charge of protecting the capital.\n\nThe Al Jahra Force later supported the Syrian and Egyptian armed forces on the Egyptian and Syrian front of the war in October 1973 between Arab forces and the State of Israel known as the Yom Kippur War or October War. Mubarak, Saleh and the acting lead combat commander of the Al-Jahra force, led these Kuwaiti forces, in alliance with Iraqi Armed Forces, while at the same time battle-readying the remainder of the Military of Kuwait on the Kuwaiti borders due to the \"Sanita\" border skirmish.\n\nIn 1977, Mubarak Al-Abdullah initiated the first joint drills of the Kuwaiti and United States Armed Forces.\n\nIn 1979, Mubarak was promoted to be the first Lieutenant General of the Kuwait Armed Forces. He retired from the military the next year, the first officer to retire from the Kuwait Armed Forces.\n\nThe Command and Staff College was established in 1995, and named the Mubarak al-Abdullah Joint Command and Staff College (MAJCSC) in memory of Mubarak al-Abdullah in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "50875421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50875421", "title": "Nadim Rouhana", "text": "Nadim Rouhana\n\nNadim N. Rouhana is Professor of International Negotiation and Conflict Studies at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and the Founder and General Director of Mada al-Carmel, Arab Center for Applied Social Research in Haifa, which undertakes theoretical and applied social research and policy analysis to broaden knowledge and critical thinking about the Palestinians in Israel, equal citizenship, and democracy.\n\nRouhana was born in Isifiya, Mount Carmel, above Haifa to a Palestinian family who were citizens of the state of Israel. He grew up there and was educated in the Israeli school system. He is trilingual, fluent in Arabic, Hebrew, and English. He completed his BA in Psychology and Statistics at the University of Haifa, his MA in Psychology at the University of Western Australia, and his Ph.D. in Social Psychology at Wayne State University.\n\nAs part of his graduate work, he spent three years (1981-1984) at Harvard University, writing his dissertation under the mentorship of Dr. Herbert Kelman, and, later, two years (1987-1989) as a Postdoctoral Fellow. With Kelman, he worked on an approach to conflict resolution called the problem-solving workshop (PSW). Rouhana and Kelman later pioneered a new approach that built on the problem-solving workshop called the continuing workshop. Informed by a socio-psychological approach, the continuing workshop features regular intensive meetings between high-ranking non-official individuals over a long period of time. The meetings are designed to facilitate constructive interaction between opposing parties in an effort to advance jointly formulated ideas on how to address major issues of dispute in a given conflict.\n\nWhile at Harvard, Rouhana was a founding member of PICAR, a Program on International Conflict Analysis and Resolution that was based at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs until 2003, and its Chair of Academic Programs. He also served as Co-Chair of the Seminar on International Conflict at the center.\n\nBefore his position at Fletcher, Rouhana was the Henry Hart Rice Professor of Conflict Analysis and Resolution at the School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution (SCAR) at George Mason University (2004-2008) and Director of Point of View, SCAR's international research and retreat center in Mason Neck, VA. Prior to that, he was an Associate Professor at the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Tel-Aviv University (2000-2004). Appointments previous to this included teaching positions at the University of Massachusetts-Boston, Boston College, and An-Najah National University in Nablus, Palestine.\n\nAt Fletcher, Rouhana teaches courses on international negotiation, protracted social conflict, and reconciliation and transitional justice. Current research interests include collective identity and democratic citizenship in multiethnic states, the questions of reconciliation and multicultural citizenship, transitional justice, international negotiations, and the impact of the fusion of religion and nationalism on the comparative dynamics of various protracted conflicts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53103093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53103093", "title": "Ouedraogo", "text": "Ouedraogo\n\nOuédraogo (also spelled Wedraogo or Ouidiraogo) was the son of Yennenga and progenitor of the Mossi Kingdoms. He founded the kingdom of Tenkodogo. His three sons were Rawa, Diaba Lompo, and Zoungourana.\n"}
{"id": "1777229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1777229", "title": "Petr Pithart", "text": "Petr Pithart\n\nPetr Pithart (born 2 January 1941) is a Czech politician, lawyer and political scientist who served as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic (then a federal region of Czechoslovakia) from 6 February 1990 to 2 July 1992. He was also the Senator for Chrudim from 1996 to 2012 and served as President of the Senate from 18 December 1996 to 16 December 1998 and again from 19 December 2000 to 15 December 2004.\n\nOn 1 January 2018 Pithart received the Order of the White Double Cross state award (second class) from Slovak President Andrej Kiska.\n\nPithart was a member of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia from 1960, was active in the Prague Spring, and left the party after the Soviet invasion. He was later one of the most prominent dissidents against the communist regime, and was imprisoned for his activities, including being one of the first signatories of Charter 77. In 1989 he was one of the prominent leaders of the Civic Forum, founded at the start of the Velvet Revolution. Having participated in the negotiations leading to changes to the federal, Czech and Slovak governments, he was appointed Prime Minister of the Czech Socialist Republic.\n\nPithart is often characterised as a philosopher and thinker, rather than a tactical or charismatic leader. His 1990-92 Czech government was unable to deal with the growing power of federal Finance Minister Václav Klaus and his increasingly popular Civic Democratic Party, nor growing Slovak nationalism, which culminated in the dissolution of Czechoslovakia and defeat for Pithart's Civic Movement party.\n\nPithard was unsuccessful in his bid to become President of the Czech Republic at the 2003 election, losing to Václav Klaus.\n\nIn 1998 Pithart joined the Christian and Democratic Union - Czechoslovak People's Party. He was elected as senator in 1996, and re-elected in 2000 and 2006. He was the First Deputy Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic from 2004 to 2012. He retired in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "907683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907683", "title": "Phil Plait", "text": "Phil Plait\n\nPhilip Cary Plait (born September 30, 1964), also known as The Bad Astronomer, is an American astronomer, skeptic, writer and popular science blogger. Plait has worked as part of the Hubble Space Telescope team, images and spectra of astronomical objects, as well as engaging in public outreach advocacy for NASA missions. He has written two books, \"Bad Astronomy\" and \"Death from the Skies\". He has also appeared in several science documentaries, including \"Phil Plait's Bad Universe\" and \"How the Universe Works\" on the Discovery Channel. From August 2008 through 2009, he served as president of the James Randi Educational Foundation. Additionally, he wrote and hosted episodes of \"Crash Course\" Astronomy,<ref name=\"Re/code\"></ref> which aired its last episode in 2016.\n\nPlait grew up in the Washington, D.C. area. He has said he became interested in astronomy when his father brought home a telescope when Plait was 5 years old or so. According to Plait, he \"aimed it at Saturn that night. One look, and that was it. I was hooked.\"\n\nPlait attended the University of Michigan and received his PhD in astronomy at the University of Virginia in 1995 with a thesis on supernova SN 1987A, which he studied with the Supernova Intensive Study (SINS).\n\nDuring the 1990s, Plait worked with the COBE satellite and later was part of the Hubble Space Telescope team at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, working largely on the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph. In 1995, he published observations of a ring of circumstellar material around SN 1987A, which led to further study of explosion mechanisms in core-collapse supernovae. Plait's work with Grady, \"et al.\" resulted in the presentation of high-resolution images of isolated stellar objects (including AB Aurigae and HD 163296) from the Hubble Space Telescope, among the first of those recorded. These results have been used in further studies into the properties and structure of dim, young, moderate-size stars, called Herbig Ae/Be stars, which also confirmed results observed by Grady, \"et al.\"\n\nAfter his research contributions, Plait concentrated on educational outreach. He went on to perform web-based public outreach for the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope and other NASA-funded missions while at Sonoma State University from 2000 to 2007. In 2001, he coauthored a paper on increasing accessibility of astronomy education resources and programs.\n\nA large proportion of his public outreach occurs online. He established the badastronomy website in 1998 and the corresponding blog in 2005. The website remains archived but is no longer actively maintained, while the blog has continued, through several changes of platform, to the present day.\n\nHis first book, \"Bad Astronomy: Misconceptions and Misuses Revealed, from Astrology to the Moon Landing \"Hoax\"\" deals with much the same subject matter as his website. His second book, \"Death from the Skies\", describes ways astronomical events could wipe out life on Earth and was released in October 2008.\n\nPlait's work has also appeared in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica Yearbook of Science and the Future\" and \"Astronomy\" magazine. He is also a frequent guest on the SETI Institute's weekly science radio show \"Big Picture Science\".\n\nPlait has contributed to a number of television and cinema productions, either onscreen as host or guest or in an advisory role offscreen. He hosted the three-part documentary series \"Phil Plait's \"Bad Universe\" on the Discovery Channel, which first aired in the United States on August 29, 2010 but was not picked up as a series. He has appeared in numerous science documentaries and programs including How the Universe Works. Plait was a science advisor for the 2016 movie Arrival and the 2017 CBS TV Series Salvation. He was the head science writer of the 2017 show Bill Nye Saves the World on Netflix.\n\nFrom 2008 to 2009, Plait served as the president of the James Randi Educational Foundation, which promotes scientific skepticism, a position he eventually stepped down from in order to focus on the \"Bad Universe\"\" television project. He has also been a regular speaker at widely attended science and skepticism events and conferences, such as The Amazing Meeting (TAM), Northeast Conference on Science and Skepticism (NECSS), and DragonCon. Plait writes and speaks on topics related to scientific skepticism, such as advocating in favor of widespread immunization.\n\nPlait currently resides in Boulder, Colorado with his wife, Marcella Setter, and daughter. In a 2009 interview, Plait stated that his daughter is interested in astronomy and science, as well as anime and manga. Setter and Plait run Science Getaways, a vacation company that provides science-based adventures.\n\nPlait began publishing explanatory Internet postings on science in 1993. Five years later, Plait established Badastronomy.com with the goal of clearing up what he perceived to be widespread public misconceptions about astronomy and space science in movies, the news, print, and on the Internet, also providing critical analysis of several pseudoscientific theories related to space and astronomy, such as the \"Planet X\" cataclysm, Richard Hoagland's theories, and the Moon landing \"hoax\". It received a considerable amount of traffic after Plait criticized a Fox Network special accusing NASA of faking the Apollo missions. Astronomer Michelle Thaller has described Badastronomy.com, as well as Plait's book and essays called \"Bad Astronomy\", as \"a monumental service to the space-science community\".\n\nIn 2005, Plait started the Bad Astronomy blog. In July 2008, it moved to a new host, \"Discover Magazine\". While it is primarily an astronomy blog, Plait also posts about skepticism, pseudoscience, antiscience topics, with occasional personal and political posts. On November 12, 2012, the Bad Astronomy blog moved to \"Slate magazine\". Plait told Richard Saunders in an interview that \"they [Slate] are very supportive... a new community.\" Revisiting old posts, Plait stated, \"I've written about everything, when you've written 7,000 blog posts you've pretty much written about every topic in astronomy.\"\n\nOn February 1, 2017 the Bad Astronomy blog moved to SyfyWire.\n\nIn September 2011, Plait spoke at a TED (conference) in Boulder, his hometown. His conference explained \"how to defend Earth from asteroids\".\n\nIn November 2014 it was announced that Plait would be joining the YouTube educational series \"Crash Course\" to teach a forthcoming Astronomy unit. The first episode was uploaded on January 15, 2015. After 47 episodes, the series came to its end on February 12, 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4378583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4378583", "title": "Sabina von Steinbach", "text": "Sabina von Steinbach\n\nSabina von Steinbach was – according to legend – a female stonemason living in Alsace (in what is now eastern France) during the 13th century. She is said to have been the daughter of Erwin von Steinbach, architect and master builder at Notre-Dame de Strasbourg, the cathedral in Strasbourg. When after her father's death her brother Johann continued to build the cathedral tower from 1318 to 1339, Sabina is believed to have been employed as a skillful mason and sculptor in its completion. There are, however, strong doubts as to whether she existed.\n\nSabina is traditionally considered responsible for the statues personifying the \"Church\" and the \"Synagogue\" (both 13th century), which are located near the south portals of the cathedral.\n\nThe tradition of Sabina as a mason in Strasbourg, constantly cited, appears to have been first published in 1617 by Schadeus in his description of Strasbourg Cathedral. This understanding may have derived from the interpretation of a – now lost – Latin inscription on a scroll held by the figure of St. John. It translated: \"Thanks to the piety of this woman, Sabina, who has given me form from this hard stone.\"\n\nWomen were admitted to membership in the majority of the medieval craft guilds, but membership in a guild did not carry with it the right of being apprenticed, although it implied that a female member might share in all its benefits, pious and pecuniary, and in the event of her husband’s death (he being a master) might carry on his trade. This was easily done with the help of a managing journeyman and it is well known that provision was made for the journeyman's promptly acquiring the master’s rights by marrying such a widow. Stonemasons often traveled to distant sites for work that might be decades in construction and would naturally have taken their wives and children with them.\n\nVon Steinbach's employment of his daughter Sabina among the Strasbourg stonemasons was not merely an irregularity perpetrated by a provincial lodge, lax in the proper guild observances. Until the capture of the city by France in 1681, the headquarters of the German stonemasons was in Strasbourg (even as late as 1760 the Strasbourg lodge still claimed tribute from the lodges of Germany). Indeed, American historian Albert Mackey, in his \"Encyclopedia of Freemasonry\", cites the theory \"which places the organization of the Order of Freemasonry at the building of the Cathedral of Strasbourg, in the year 1275.\"\n\nSome contend that Sabina took over the contract on her father's job at Strasbourg after the master builder died and brought it to completion. Others maintain that she merely assisted her father. Still others maintain that Sabina completed the cathedral by herself, aided by \"magic,\" when other stonemasons refused to work with her.\n\nArt historians, over the past few decades, have cast doubt upon the story of Sabina Von Steinback. They base their doubts on a number of discrepancies, including a re-examination of the now lost inscription on scroll held by the figure of St. John, the sculpture attributed to Sabina. Art historian Leslie Ross, in her \"Artists of the Middle Ages\" (Greenwood Publishing Group, 2003), argues that Sabina’s story likely was created to further romanticize her supposed father’s story. For while there is no doubt Erwin von Steinback did exist, so little is known about him that he, in fact, had to be \"discovered\". Ross writes:\n\nErwin's daughter, Sabina von Steinbach, was also 'discovered' in the nineteenth century. Based on a (now lost) inscription on one of the sculptures on the exterior of the Strasbourg cathedral (naming a 'Savinae'), a nineteenth-century scholar attributed several famous sculptures both on the exterior and interior of the cathedral to the previously unacknowledged but extremely skillful female sculptor, Sabina von Steinbach, the daughter of Erwin. That the sculptures in question date to a period approximately four decades before Erwin's work at the cathedral was evidently not recognized then or was seen as being not at all problematic. The name of Sabina von Steinbach continues to occur in studies of medieval female artists.\n\nAnother art historian, Natalie Harris Bluestone, in her \"Double Vision: Perspectives on Gender and the Visual Arts\" (Associated University Presses, 1995), further explains the misunderstanding:\n\nThe legend of Sabina stems from a misreading and mistranslation of an inscription on the portal, which identifies one 'Sabina' as the donor who made it possible for the sculptures to be cut from 'petra dura' or hard (read 'expensive') stone. 'Steinbach' is not a literal translation of 'petra dura' and probably stems from some desire to elaborate the romantic legend that has grown up around the name of the (documented) Erwin. In fact, the style of the pseudo-Sabian figures, Ecclesia and Synagogue, indicates a manufacture of ca. 1225, some fifty years before the recorded activity of Erwin and long before his death, which, in the legend provides the occasion for Sabina's intervention.\n\nBut she adds:\n\nThe truth that inheres in this legend, however, consists in its example of a Western medieval tradition: the woman artist who learns her craft from an artist-father (or some other male relative, such as husband, brother or uncle). In these circumstances, the woman of the artisan class would have had access to such training. Should the male artist die, on occasion the daughter/wife/sister/niece would inherit and run his workshop. Guild records for the late Middle Ages repeatedly describe wives as business partners and specifically allow for them to inherit and take over their deceased husband's craft or trade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56912719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56912719", "title": "Sarah Lavalley", "text": "Sarah Lavalley\n\nSarah (née Aird) Lavalley (1895-1991) was a nurse, craftswoman, and community leader from Golden Lake Reserve. In addition to her social work, she is known for supporting cultural exchange between the Indigenous community that she was a part of and non-Indigenous people, as well as supporting cultural continuity through her teaching throughout her life. Lavalley was also known as a skilled maker using traditional patterns and stitching techniques, making wearable crafts like moccasins and mittens for instance.\n\nSarah Lavalley was born on April 28, 1895 on Golden Lake (Algonquins of Pikwakanagan First Nation) Reserve. Lavalley attended a day school until grade nine on Golden Lake Reserve, and attended high school in Eganville. Lavalley left school to support her family working as a household servant in Eganville and Ottawa. Lavalley also helped her grandmother Annie Mitchell with midwifery from the age of fourteen. This formative experience led to her completing some training at the Good Samaritan Catholic Hospital in Jersey City, New Jersey, at age nineteen.\n\nSarah married James Lavalley in 1916. On the occasion of their fiftieth wedding anniversary the couple received letters of congratulations from political figures including Governor General Georges Vanier, Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson, Agriculture Minister Joe Greene, and Senator Norman McLeod Paterson, revealing some of the high-profile relationships that Lavalley had established. Other than a couple of brief periods spent in Ottawa and Timmins, Ontario, Sarah lived primarily on Golden Lake Reserve throughout her life. She had eight children and forty-three grandchildren.\n\nLavalley developed a reputation as a dedicated nurse at Golden Lake Reserve and Village, serving 600 villagers and 300 inhabitants on the reserve, addressing the inaccessibility of the nearest hospital. Lavalley was president of the Golden Lake Branch of the Catholic Women’s League and the Golden Lake Homemaker’s Club, where she encouraged women from the community to meet and develop skills, particularly in Indigenous crafts. Lavalley fostered cultural exchange when she taught Indigenous and non-Indigenous women craftwork and beadwork. Lavalley’s work appeared regularly since the 1940s in the Indian Crafts Pavilion at the Canadian National Exhibition in Toronto, and was sold nationally, in United States, and in Europe. She also led the Algonquin Crafts project, which provided an opportunity for makers on the reserve to sell their work.\n\nLater in her life, Sarah Lavalley acted as a consultant for linguistics research and was included in several publications, such as “Kinship Terms in Golden Lake Algonquin” by George F. Aubin, and \"Restoring the Balance: First Nations Women, Community, and Culture\" edited by Gail Guthrie Valaskakis, Eric Guimond, and Madeleine Dion Stout.\n\nSarah Lavalley was awarded the Ontario Order of Good Citizenship Medal in June 1980. Lavalley became a member of the Order of Canada in 1981. Shortly afterwards, Lavalley was awarded the Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice medal by Pope John Paul II. She was also one of the recipients of the Union of Ontario Indians Lifetime Achievement Award in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "2294110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2294110", "title": "Shalom Sharabi", "text": "Shalom Sharabi\n\nSar Shalom Sharabi (), also known as the Rashash, the Shemesh or Ribbi Shalom Mizraḥi deyedi`a Sharabi (1720–1777), was a Yemenite-IsraeliJewish Rabbi, Halachist, Chazzan and Kabbalist. In later life, he became the Rosh Yeshiva of Bet El Yeshiva in the Old City of Jerusalem. His daughter married Rabbi Hayyim Abraham Gagin of Jerusalem, making him the great-great-grandfather of Shem Tob Gaguine, the \"Keter Shem Tob.\" His grandson was Chief Rabbi Chaim Abraham Gagin.\n\nSar Shalom Sharabi was born in Jewish Sharab, Yemen. He moved to Palestine, then under Ottoman rule, in fulfilment of a vow. On his way he stayed in India, Baghdad and Damascus. In Damascus, he was involved in a dispute of Halacha over the minimum olive size kezayit of matzah that one should eat at the Pesach Seder.\n\nIn Palestine he made a strong impression on the local rabbinic sages, and is frequently mentioned in their books. At Bet El Yeshiva, he belonged to a group of 12 \"mekubalim\" along with Hida, Torat Hakham, Rabbi Yom-Tov Algazi and other sages of Sephardic and Yemenite congregations. He remained at Bet El Yeshiva until his death, eventually becoming Rosh Yeshiva. He himself was a devotee of the teachings of Rabbi Isaac Luria, and a principal innovator within Lurianic Kabbalah.\n\nPopular tradition links his departure from Yemen with a miracle that occurred after a rich Muslim woman tried to seduce him. In Bet El he worked as a servant and hid his learning from others; when his knowledge of Kabbalah was accidentally discovered, he became a member of the kabbalistic circle. According to legend, the prophet Elijah appeared to him, and he is understood by the major Kabbalists as being himself the Gilgul of the Arizal. His grandson, Solomon Moses Hai Gagin Sharabi, wrote a poem of praise on his mastery of the \"Etz Hayyim\" and \"Shemonah She'arim\" of Hayyim Vital. Members of Bet El continue to prostrate themselves on his grave on the Mount of Olives on the anniversary of his death.\n\nSharabi is credited with the miracle that opened the Kotel to Jews.\n\nHe was one of the earlier commentators on the works of the Ari, a major source of Kabbalah. His Siddur was known as the \"Siddur Ha-Kavvanot,\" and is the main \"siddur\" used today by Kabbalists for prayer, meditation and Yeshiva study. It is a \"siddur\" with extensive Kabbalistic meditations by way of commentary.\n\nHis writings include \"Emet va-Shalom\", \"Rehovot Hanahar\", \"Derech Shalom\" and \"Nahar Shalom\", in which he answers 70 questions of the Hahamim of Tunis, who were among the leading Sephardic authorities in the 18th century. He also commented on the \"minhagim\" (customs) of the Yemenite Jews and compiled them in volumes known as \"Minhagei Rashash\", an exclusive edition of the \"Shulchan Aruch\", where he gives his interpretations of the \"halachot\", as well as noting the particular customs of the Shami Yemenite community. These volumes are still actively used by this community to reach Halachic decisions regarding holidays, marriage and Shabbat services.\n"}
{"id": "2302365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2302365", "title": "Shaykh Ahmad", "text": "Shaykh Ahmad\n\nShaykh Ahmad ibn Zayn al-Dín ibn Ibráhím al-Ahsá'í () (1753–1834), commonly known as Shaykh Ahmad or al-Ahsá'í, was a prominent 19th-century Muslim theologian and jurist who founded the influential Shaykhí school of Twelver Shiism, which attracted followers from throughout the Persian and Ottoman Empires.\n\nHe was a native of the Al-Ahsa region (Eastern Arabian Peninsula), educated in Bahrain and the theological centers of Najaf and Karbala in Iraq. Spending the last twenty years of his life in Iran, he received the protection and patronage of princes of the Qajar dynasty.\n\nShaykh Ahmad’s teachings diverged from the Usuli school on key issues related to eschatology, the role of the ulama, and the proper interpretation of the mystical hadith of the Twelve Imams. This divergences resulted in accusations of heresy from orthodox members of the Shia ulama, and instances of persecution against Ahsá'í and his followers occurred during and after his lifetime.\n\nToday Shaykhí populations retain a minority following in Iran and Iraq. After the death of Shaykh Ahmad’s successor, Kazim Rashti, many Shaykhís converted to Bábism and the Bahá'í Faith; the two Shaykhí leaders continue to be highly regarded by Bahá’ís, being seen as spiritual forerunners to that religion.\n\nLittle is documented about the early life of Shaykh Ahmad, except that he was born in Ahsa, in the northeast of the Arabian peninsula, to a Shi'i family of Sunni origin in either the year 1166 AH (1753 CE), or 1157 AH (1744 CE). Nabíl’s Narrative, a Baha'i history, describes his spiritual awakening as follows:\nWhile it is unclear how much of Nabil's interpretation is consistent with Shaykh Ahmad's true feelings, the underlying motivations for reform, and ultimately for messianic expectation, become somewhat clearer.\n\nShaykh Ahmad, at about age forty (1784 or 1794 - circa), began to study in earnest in the Shi'i centres of religious scholarship such as Karbala and Najaf. He attained sufficient recognition in such circles to be declared a mujtahid, an interpreter of Islamic Law. He contended with Sufi and Neo-Platonist scholars, and attained a positive reputation among their detractors. He declared that all knowledge and sciences were contained (in essential form) within the Quran, and that to excel in the sciences, all knowledge must be gleaned from the Quran. To this end he developed systems of interpretation of the Quran and sought to inform himself of all the sciences current in the Muslim world.\n\nHe also evinced a veneration of the Imams, even beyond the extent of his pious contemporaries and espoused heterodox views on the afterlife, the resurrection and end-times, as well as medicine and cosmology. His views on the soul posited a \"subtle body\" separate from, and associated with the physical body. It was this body that ascended into Heaven, he posited, when Muhammad was said to have bodily ascended, and this also altered his views on the occultation of the Imam Muhammad al-Mahdi. His views resulted in his denunciation by several learned clerics, and he engaged in many debates before moving on to Persia where he settled for a time in the province of Yazd. It was in Yazd that much of his books and letters were written.\n\nJuan Cole summarizes the situation at the advent of the Shaykhi School, and the questions that were unfolding as his views crystallized and he acquired an early following:\nMoojan Momen in his \"Introduction to Shi'i Islam\" (George Ronald, Oxford, 1985) states that many mujtahids were afraid that the Shaykh's preference for intuitive knowledge, which he claimed to obtain directly by inspiration from the Imams, would seriously undermine the authority of their position. Momen has some interesting and useful commentary on Shaykh Ahmad's doctrines and his succession during which the conflict with Shi'i orthodoxy intensified.\n\nShaykh Ahmad appointed Kazim Rashti as his successor, who led the Shaykhí movement until his death. He taught his students how to recognize the \"Mahdi\" and the \"Masih\" (the returned Jesus). After his death in 1843, many of his students spread out around Iraq and Iran to search for a new leader.\n\nShaykh Ahmad was a prolific writer, he is known to have completed 71 published works during his career, of which 354 contemporary manuscripts are known to be still extant. Writing primarily in Arabic, his work spanned a wide array of literary forms. The largest number of his works consist of correspondence with other members of the ulama or his students, usually intended to expand upon a teaching advanced in another work, or provide answers to vexing questions of theology or jurisprudence. Treatises and lessons composed independently by al-Ahsá’í make up a smaller number of his works, but tend to be longer than his correspondence and more commonly studied and reprinted. In keeping with Islamic and Persian literary and academic tradition, a large number of his works take the form of commentaries on Surahs from the Qur'an,  important Hadiths of Muhammad or the Imams, or writing by earlier mystical or theological writers. The most comprehensive bibliography of Ahmad’s known works identifies twelve wide subject areas addressed by individual works:\n\n•  \"Sharh al-Fawa'id\". Lithographed. N.P. (Tabriz: 1856).\n\n•  \"Jawami' al-Kalim\". Lithographed. N.P. (Tabriz: 1856-59).\n\n•  \"Sharh al-Masha'ir\". Lithographed. N.P. (Tehran: 1861).\n\n•  \"Sharh al-'Arshiyya\". Lithographed. N.P. (Tehran: 1861).\n\n•  \"Sharh al-Ziyara al-Jami'a al-Kabira\". \"Chapkhaneh Sa'adat\" (Kirman: 1972), 4 Volumes.\n\n•  \"Rasa'il al-Hikma\". \"Al-Da'ira al-'Alamiyya\" (Beirut: 1993).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29193", "title": "Spawn (comics)", "text": "Spawn (comics)\n\nSpawn is a fictional character, an antihero that appears in a monthly comic book of the same name published by American company Image Comics. Created by Todd McFarlane, Tom DeFalco contributing. The character first appeared in \"Spawn\" #1 (May 1992). Spawn was ranked 60th on \"Wizard\" magazine's list of the Top 200 Comic Book Characters of All Time, 50th on \"Empire\" magazine's list of The 50 Greatest Comic Book Characters and 36th on IGN's 2011 Top 100 Comic Book Heroes.\n\nThe series has spun off several other comics, including \"Angela\", \"Curse of the Spawn\", \"Sam & Twitch\", and the Japanese manga \"Shadows of Spawn.\" Spawn was adapted into a 1997 feature film and portrayed by Michael Jai White, an HBO animated series lasting from 1997 until 1999, and a series of action figures whose high level of detail made McFarlane Toys known in the toy industry. The character also appears in annual compilations, miniseries specials written by guest authors and artists, and numerous crossover storylines in other comic books.\n\n\"Spawn\" enjoyed considerable popularity upon its initial release in the 1990s. Comic book collecting was enjoying a marked upswing at the time, fueled by the speculator boom looking for the next hot book that would jump in value after its release. McFarlane had enjoyed superstar status among comic fans with his work on \"Spider-Man\", which had featured McFarlane's name prominently as both writer and artist. McFarlane's subsequent break with Marvel and the formation of Image Comics was seen by many as a sea-change event, changing the very way in which comics were produced. \"Wizard\", in May 2008, rated \"The Launch of Image Comics\" as #1 in the list of events that rocked the Comic Industry from 1991 to 2008.\n\nThe first issue of \"Spawn\" was very popular with sales of 1.7 million copies. During \"Spawn\"'s second year of publication, \"Wizard\" noted that \"The top dog at Image is undoubtedly Todd McFarlane's \"Spawn\", which, without the added marketing push of fancy covers, polybagged issues, or card inserts has become the best-selling comic on a consistent basis that is currently being published.\" Sales slumped around the time of \"Spawn\" #25, but by \"Spawn\" #45 it was again a consistently strong seller.\n\nThe popularity of the franchise peaked with the 1997 \"Spawn\" feature film, the pre-release publicity for which helped make \"Spawn\" the top selling comic book for May 1997; in addition, the spin-off \"Curse of the Spawn\" #9 came in at fifth best-selling for the same month. However, the film was only a mild commercial success and failed to start a film franchise based on the character. A 2008 issue, \"Spawn\" #174, ranked 99th best-selling comic of the month with retail orders of 22,667. In October 2008, issue #185, which marked both a new creative direction and Todd McFarlane's return to the book, sold out at the distribution level and received a second printing. By issue #191 in May 2009, with estimated sales of 19,803 copies, \"Spawn\" had dropped below Top 100 titles sold monthly to comic shops as reported by Diamond Comic Distributors. As of August 2010 Spawn no longer was ranked in the top 300 sales figures chart reported by Diamond Comic Distributors. On the day of its release in 2011, issue #200 sold out. This issue featured work by Greg Capullo, David Finch, Michael Golden, Jim Lee, Rob Liefeld, Marc Silvestri, Danny Miki, and Ashley Wood. A second printing was released the next month. It received a negative review from IGN.\n\nAlbert Francis \"Al\" Simmons (September 13, 1963–May 1, 1992) is a highly trained U.S. Marine who is at his most successful point when he saved the president from an assassination attempt. He is promoted to a high level and recruited to a highly classified unit within the CIA devoted to black ops. Once there, he begins to question the morality of what his agency is doing.\n\nJason Wynn hires Bruce Stinson (codenamed Chapel), Simmons' friend and partner, to kill him. In a blazing inferno, Simmons is killed and his soul sent to Hell, because he has knowingly killed innocents while working for the CIA.\n\nSimmons makes a deal with an evil being known as Malebolgia: in exchange for his soul, he will get to see once again his wife, Wanda. However, when Simmons returns to the human world, five years have passed and he has been transformed into a demonic creature with little memory of his former life. After regaining his memories, he seeks out his wife, only to find she has moved on and is married to his best friend, Terry Fitzgerald, and that they now have a daughter named Cyan.\n\nAfter this event, the Violator appears, and reveals to Simmons the purpose of his resurrection. They fight, but the battle is interrupted by Malebolgia.\n\nIn his early battles, Spawn faces street thugs and gangs, becoming a dark and brutal antihero, culminating in the brutal murder of a pedophile and child murderer named Billy Kincaid. As a result, he gains the attention of the detective duo of Sam Burke and Twitch Williams. It is around this time that Spawn becomes \"King of Rat City\", a gathering of alleys where bums and the homeless live. There he meets the bum Cogliostro, who seems to know much more about Spawn than he first lets on, and becomes his mentor.\n\nSpawn is also hunted by the warrior angel, Angela, who hunts Hellspawns for sport, and battles the cyborg mob enforcer Overt-Kill. This confrontation almost kills Spawn, but he is able to emerge victorious. He is again hunted by Angela and fights the angelic warrior, Anti-Spawn a.k.a. the Redeemer, who was, in fact, Jason Wynn.\n\nAfter a confrontation with the Redeemer, Spawn's suit mutated and became more advanced. Its new cape and chains were able to shape shift into different things to confuse his opponents. The cape now looked slightly torn, and the costume had lost its red glow, having evolved to what is now black and white. Spawn's boots and gloves had also changed, having been replaced with spikes. Spawn used his new equipment to slash off the Redeemer's hand and defeat him. Spawn thought that the battle was over until he met someone more powerful than The Redeemer known as the Freak. Spawn fought with the Freak but was caught unaware by the Freak's ability to create nightmares, which he did to torture Spawn with his past. During the battle, a creature appearing to have the original appearance of Spawn fights other beings and creatures and knocks out Spawn. When Spawn awakens, the creature tells him that ever since the metamorphosis, the suit will feed off of souls. Spawn later finds himself in New York City. He would fight with The Curse, meet Harry Houdini who taught him about magic, and also meet Batman.\n\nAfter this, Tony Twist sends a reprogrammed Overt-Kill after Terry, blaming him for the recent attacks on the mob, and Spawn is forced to reveal his identity while saving his friend. However, it is a well-placed shot from Twitch Williams that brings down Overt-Kill. He would later bring back his friend Bobby after he was killed in another fight with Chapel. Spawn would be a part of Angela's trial and later traveled to the South and had an encounter with the KKK and an abusive father of two boys. When he returned to New York, he was attacked by a new Redeemer. This caused his costume to evolve and defeat the Redeemer with its new-found power. After another encounter with the Curse, the suit began to go wild, and, after saving Terry from cancer, sent him to Hell, but Malebolgia sent him back with full control of the suit.\n\nSpawn wears a living symbiotic costume, Leetha of the 7th House of K (also known as K7-Leetha). While wearing it, the host assumes a dominant role over his suit. His shroud, spikes, chains, and skulls are all part of an organism bonded to his central nervous system that will protect Spawn even if he is unconscious.\n\nAs Spawn struggled to find a way to get rid of Hell's control and regain control, he noticed that the attacks were coming from both Heaven and Hell. Due to increasing attacks, Spawn began to lose himself to evil. However, thanks to the arrival of the Heap, an emissary of the Greenworld, he was able to regain his goal. Greenworld is a dimension whose power was equal to both Heaven's and Hell's, which Spawn had never faced before. They gave new powers to Spawn so he could better understand the world and its people, which allowed him to overcome the worst from both Heaven and Hell. Though these powers were not really known, they seem to give control of all the elements around the world.\n\nIt was around this time that Spawn battled the powerful god Urizen. Spawn once stopped a cult from summoning Urizen, but this time he had been summoned by two gate opener demons named Ab and Zab. Urizen was causing massive destruction to the world and after losing a battle to him, Spawn came back and used his new abilities to make the Earth itself swallow Urizen and imprison him.\n\nIt was explained that the Greenworld had no interest in the war of Heaven and Hell, but was getting frustrated with the destruction that it brought. This caused Earth \"pain\", and later Spawn became aware of it. Spawn did not change his powers though, but rather, \"listened\" to the Earth, until being attacked by Urizen. After recovering, Spawn learns that the Greenworld had imbued him with a gift, which he uses to contain Urizen by splitting the ground and imprisoning him inside the earth.\n\nAfter his battle, Spawn learned that Malebolgia had caused Urizen's release in an attempt to start Armageddon and conquer the forces of Heaven. Spawn and Angela then journeyed to Hell to stop him. During the battle, Angela managed to mortally wound Malebolgia but gets killed by him in retaliation. Consumed with anger, Spawn takes Malebolgia's head.\n\nUpon killing Malebolgia, Spawn learns that Hell's throne is rightfully his, offered to him by the demon Mammon. Though he refuses the offer, Spawn eventually deliberates with his teacher Cog and decides to turn Hell into a new paradise. During this act, Cog reveals that he is, in reality, the biblical Cain, who was the first person to go to Hell, having murdered his own brother in envy. His true goal had always been to take over Hell and use a Hellspawn to do it. Having betrayed Spawn, Cog took the throne for himself, but gave his former student his human form back, a parting gift.\n\nAfter returning, he meets a young Wiccan named Nyx. With her help, he regains his suit, though he remains weaker than before due to still having a human form. However, Mammon tricks and betrays Nyx and usurps her control over Spawn's union with his suit, removing all of Spawn's past memories in the process. With no memory, Spawn wanders the Earth, and during this time releases a group of angels who are called the Forgotten and take no sides in the war between Heaven and Hell. He discovers that Mammon is a member of the Fallen who was sent to Hell.\n\nSpawn regains his memories thanks to the power of the Greenworld. His suit also evolves once more and now it seems one with his body, but as time progresses, he begins to hate himself. Both Heaven and Hell have rejected him and he now stays in an abandoned warehouse as maggots and other insects crawl inside his body as he wonders what he should do. His first thought is to return to the Dead Zone, although it is Heaven's territory and a Hellspawn wouldn't be welcomed. Immediately upon entering, Spawn is confronted by the Disciple, who promptly greets him by tearing his brain out and throwing his heart into the Greenworld whilst Spawn's body is thrown to Hell. Spawn is then captured and tortured by Mammon so he can understand the secrets inside him.\n\nWhen Spawn's heart fell to the Greenworld, a soul was freed, as all the souls that died within the hour Al died went into the Spawn suit (thus why Malebolgia could not control Spawn). Chris meets with his mother once more as the Man of Miracles instructed him and then he travels to hell along with Sam Burke and Twitch Williams to rescue Spawn from Mammon. Spawn escapes and when he returns to Earth, signs of Armageddon begin to appear; Spawn begins looking for a way to stop it. Spawn discovers that Wanda's twin children are responsible. He stops them from killing their entire family but is unable to destroy them. Zera reveals that Jake is God and Katie is Satan.\n\nSpawn finds out that the Mother removed them of their powers and positions and sent them to Earth due to their hatred of each other and constant fighting. She tells him he cannot stop Armageddon, but he has the potential to be elevated to the power of a god and preserve the human race.\n\nHe has to eat a piece of Forbidden Fruit from the Garden of Eden to gain such power. She tells Spawn he must prove himself first and has to fight against The Disciple. It is revealed that there are 12 Disciples, each one representing one of Jesus’. His power is also weakened as a demon is never to enter the Garden and it has taken the form of a counter starting at 9:9:9:9. However, with guidance from Cyan, he defeats all the Disciples except for the last, Judas, who Cyan tells him not to kill. Judas then stabs him in the heart, but the Mother gives Spawn a piece of the fruit and resurrects him. He gains a more angelic form and greater power.\n\nHe returns to Earth, finding it destroyed by the Four Horsemen and all the humans dead and angels and demons in their place, waiting to fight in the final battle. After defeating Zera, he finds dead warriors of Heaven; one of them is Granny Blake, having been betrayed by her faith. Spawn then battles the forces of Satan and God. He uses all the power given to him by the Mother to destroy the forces of Heaven and Hell and even all humanity. He has stopped Armageddon by taking away their armies; he is then killed by the two who then fight alone on Earth.\n\nHowever, Spawn comes back and, by opening himself to the power of the Mother, resurrects everyone with the knowledge of what happened. He left God and Satan to fight in their own little world and closed the doors to Heaven, Hell, and Earth. He asked to be turned into a human again by the Mother, but later asked to once again become a Hellspawn when he remembered that, prior to his first death as Al Simmons, he had actually beaten Wanda to cause her to miscarry their child so that he could focus on his \"work\", causing him to conclude that he had always been a monster and did not deserve to try and be human again.\n\nAfter a series of odd murders, Spawn finds that the Clown has come back, possessing the body of a man named Barney Saunders. It was revealed that Saunders was having an affair with a woman named Wilma Barbara and got trapped in a garbage chute when he was trying to hide from her husband. He was there for some time until Spawn destroyed and remade the world. He was rescued by the Clown so he could use his body for himself. He then brought out the dark urges inside the tenants of an apartment building and used this to form a doorway to Hell to bring back his brothers. However, before he could form a portal, Wilma showed up and his love for her allowed Saunders to take back control. He then intended to close the portal by going through it, but he took Wilma with him due to being angry over her leaving him in the chute.\n\nZera reappeared; only her head survived and she was suspended in a jar. Spawn was summoned by a voodoo priestess named Mambo Suzanne. Zera was attempting to take over Nyx's body and fight Spawn, but she was killed when Suzanne used their fighting as a distraction and threw her head into the streets where it was eaten by demon dogs. Nyx was freed and she and Spawn became friends again.\n\nAb and Zab create a hell where visitors are forced to view their deepest fears due to demons called sin eaters that feed on guilt from the visitors, then making them face the evil that they had ever done. A woman who was in the house both had delusions of their fear caused by the sin eaters. They fed on the guilt, giving them more power, when Spawn confronted Ab and Zab. He was faced with his own sin against Wanda and his unborn child. Spawn was unable to break free from the guilt and was slowly fed on by a sin eater. When Nyx interfered, he was able to break the sin eater illusion. Nyx realized that he was getting more powerful. Spawn breaks all the others illusions; then he comes across one he learns is Albert Simmons' brother, Richard, who was going through his worst sin Spawn who was still not yet recovering from all those memories as Albert Simmons.\n\nSpawn decides to allow Richard to feel his sins. It is realized that it was Mammon (as Mr. Malefick) that put an influence on Albert Simmons and taught him to torture and murder small animals, attempting to make him become a servant who would feel no pity in taking a being's life. Malefick had also influenced Richard Simmons to take drugs and introduced him to the drug dealer Weasel. It was only Marc Simmons who was able to save himself from Mammon but was unable to help the others. Richard Simmons' delusion of his past climaxed with him stabbing and injuring Weasel with a knife that was given to him by Mammon while intoxicated on drugs. Richard calls his brothers to help him save the drug dealer's life and Albert Simmons, not wanting his brothers getting in the crime, decides instead of calling an ambulance, pulls the knife from Weasel's body and kills him with it. Mammon appears, sending the brothers home while he hides the drug dealer's body.\n\nNyx and Spawn then kill the last sin eater and Spawn discovers that Richard cannot remember their parents due to a spell placed by Mammon; Spawn goes to find out about them. He finds their home under a spell placed by Mammon, keeping them there for years. His mother is not shocked by his form, but his father is. It was revealed his mother planned with Mammon to create a Hellspawn stronger than the others, but his father was grief-stricken that he couldn’t stop her. He is then given a journal by his father that his mother prevented him from seeing. It revealed that his ancestor came across a Hellspawn in the past known as the Gunslinger Spawn.\n\nThe comic series during the continuation from the last issue Spawn was left helpless and at a little weakened against his enemy Erskine's psychic powers, and although Spawn had psychic powers of his own he was in trouble due to Erskine's creation of a tentacle creature that had the ability of impaling his enemies. This creature also showed the features of Mammon that was coaxing. Nyx had come out of nowhere to stab the creature with a sword, but not killing the creature just stunning it to get its attention, but it was a mistake by Nyx only making herself the creatures target. Next she uses her telepathic powers to contact Marc Simmons, asking him to shoot Erskine. Erskine retaliates and ceases Marc's attack and accidentally grabbed the trigger of Marc's special gun causing the creature to disappear, while Spawn and Nyx go to the hospital where Erskine is.\n\nSpawn is given an opportunity of whether or not whether he should cause Erskine's death. Which threatens Spawn to enter the bubble dome, a dimension if Erskine does not reveal the location of Mammon, who Spawn believed was causing the attacks. Mammon then appears only to complicate the situation and make things worse by allowing Erskine to complete his last murder, by using a devastating psychic projection of a strange woman to attack the last victim. After all that had happened Mammon confesses that it was him who taught Erskine how to use his powers. Which been shown in his recent killing. Erskine tries to commit suicide leaving behind his possessions of the doctor who he was taken care by after he was brought to the hospital. Spawn continues to attack Mammon, and ask what Mammon wanted from him. Mammon tells him that he was a special being with great divine powers.\n\nLater a man wakes in a mortuary with no memory of who he is. Soon some doctors working on him discover he is alive and panic only to be killed by someone in a robe. The person was previously seen with Mammon and is revealed to be Morana. Severin is the man's name and he finds that he is one of the first species of vampires called the Vrykolakas. However he wants to die and Morana promises him death in return for his help. While Marc, Nyx and Spawn talk Severin appears defeats Marc and Nyx and bites Spawn to transfer his vampirism. He retreats back to Morana hoping for death, but is cursed to have to go over his last few moments repeatedly for all time.\n\nIt is revealed Cyan has been experiencing horrid visions mostly of her mother covered in blood and even Spawn's current torment. Severin's attack has caused Spawn to battle the suit in his mind. It tells him it was always in control not Al. It tells him of its anger of relinquishing his godlike powers and that Wanda had been having affairs before his death. The two fight in Spawn's mind him in his human form as the suit tells him Wanda never wanted his child soon Al gives in and gets up. Meanwhile, Mammon with Morana and his adopted mother and father Lucian and Daciana as they prepare for the next step in their plans. Cyan is having more visions that cause her to be scared of Spawn and after seeing her door in blood she opens it to find Spawn asking if he's going to kill her mom. Luckily Granny had warned Cyan and she used a knife with the old shoe lace she got from Spawn to send Spawn into an illusionary world to talk to Wanda non-violently.\n\nThere, he speaks with Wanda while they ride on a boat in a lake. He says he wanted to move on but can't. Wanda wonders if he could go if she forgave him. She says she cannot forgive Al for the death of their child, but that she still loves the man inside him. Spawn tries to take out Cyan's knife, but only pulls out his wedding ring and somehow suppresses the suit. Soon, Cyan and Nyx show up, and they get to the shore only for K7-Leetha to appear and take over Nyx. It says it has been working with Mammon from the start to build Spawn and in return would get to live on freely on earth. Now controlled by the K7, Nyx tries to kill Cyan and Wanda, but is halted by Mammon, who promises even more power if K7 still obeys his wishes. The entire group goes to a castle, where Mammon says his plan to make a perfect Hellspawn. He wanted the Rapture to occur so that Satan, God and Malebolgia would be gone, and then revealed his perfect Hellspawn was Al and Wanda's miscarried child: Morana. He chose those two due to the fact that both their families have been filled with Spawns' from previous times.\n\nAfter washing herself in virgin's blood, Morana is now fully mature. She bonds with the uniform and gets ready to consume her parents' souls. With none of the most powerful magic being usable, Cyan taps into her powers and goes to the future. She talks with an old woman who gives her a message for Al. Returning, she has Spawn summon the last twelve (but most powerful) members of the Legion. They are beaten by Morana one by one. Mammon insults Al, and in turn, he disowns Morana, enraging her, which gives Cyan the chance to tell Nyx a spell to trap Mammon and Morana. It works, both demons are sealed away, and the others return home, save Al, who jumped into another dimension to be reborn as a weapon against both heaven and hell.\n\nSpawn passes Vickie through that reality and is soon ready to enter the human dimension. He makes his way to a certain point in the alleys (probably the spot he first returned from hell) and then blows off his head. Meanwhile, a man under the name Jim Downing, who is without his memories and is healing (unusually fast) at a hospital, wakes up. He seems to know Spawn, as he was thinking about him before his awakening. A janitor tries to make money off Jim's story and calls a lawyer. The lawyer then calls someone else and tells the janitor not to go to the papers, after which the lawyer commits suicide. Soon, a thug is paid to capture Jim. While he is talking to a nurse who prayed for his recovery, the thug attacks with a flaming skull. Jim flees while the thug causes a massive amount of damage to the hospital. Soon, the thug catches up to Jim, but Jim transforms into Spawn, kills his attacker, then escapes the burning hospital back in human form, eventually being taken in by firefighters.\n\nHe is later transported to another hospital with other patients. He later leaves and reunites with his previous nurse Sara. After remembering his first transformation, he begins to turn again. He calls to Sara, but leaves before she can see him. Meanwhile, a reporter begins to ask questions about what happened at the hospital. Wandering the city Jim is attacked and effortlessly kills his would be killers. This draws the attention of Sam and Twitch, who recognize the chaos as something Spawn may do.\n\nAfter again reuniting with Sara and telling him about his transformation, he then wanders off again, only to run into Wanda Blake, Al Simmons' ex-wife. She recognizes Jim as the form Al took when he originally came back to earth, and she realizes he is a Spawn like Al.\n\nOn her advice, he travels to Rat City and finds Spawn's throne, where Spawn ruled, and is met by an angel. He ends up fighting the angel, who calls him a traitor during the fight. Fearing the angel has done something to Sara, he beats the angel and leaves. Jim finds out that a man was asking questions about him, later finding out the man was working from another man named Gilbert Sanchez.\n\nThe angel Spawn beat is later attacked by Clown who removes her wings. When Spawn returns he's sees the angel both powerless and insane and is surprised to find Freak and later Violator himself. Despite Freak's warnings Clown begins to deceive Jim and informs him that his suit is a living being but then vanishes. Clown later allows himself to be arrested by Sam and Twitch to meet the leader of a vampire group to attempt to form a unity between the leader, Clown and Spawn.\n\nGilbert Sanchez is later killed by other mob members for his information on the new Spawn. Spawn attempts to learn more about him, but after being assaulted uses his powers on his attacker. Jim later finds the man who had been asking Sara questions. He tracks to his family's home which is suddenly bombed killing everyone inside but Spawn. He is later able to find more mob members and questions them further and then finishing them when he's done.\n\nIn Resurrection, Spawn is revived and is later told by God in dog form that Wanda had died and is now trapped in Hell where Al must rescue her.It's also shown that he wasn't abusive towards his wife and unborn son as it was a false memory made by the demons to get him to commit suicide. He later fights Satan and saves his wife.\n\n\n\nA four issue miniseries released in 1995 written by Alan Moore. Drawn by Brian Denham. Ink by Jonathan Sibal & Danny Miki.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1993, McFarlane contracted Neil Gaiman to write \"Spawn\" #9. While doing so, Gaiman introduced the characters Cogliostro, Angela, and Medieval Spawn. All three characters were designed and co-created by Todd McFarlane and continued to be featured in the series after Gaiman's involvement, and some had tie-ins with McFarlane's toy company. Cogliostro had a prominent role in the live-action movie in 1997. McFarlane had agreed that Gaiman was a co-creator of the characters and paid him royalties for reprints, graphic novels, and action figures. After a few years, he ceased the payment of royalties and gave Gaiman notice that he owned all rights to the characters, citing the copyright notice from #9 and claimed that Gaiman's work had been work-for-hire and that McFarlane was the sole owner.\n\nIn 2002, Gaiman filed suit against McFarlane and, in response, McFarlane counter-sued. Gaiman had partnered with Marvel Comics to form Marvels and Miracles, LLC, which bankrolled the lawsuit. The main goal was to determine the issue of ownership for another character Gaiman felt he had a stake in, Miracleman, which at the time McFarlane was believed to hold a sizable stake in after his buyout of the assets of Eclipse Comics. This issue was thrown out. Instead, the court chose to rule on the breach of contract issue, the rights of ownership, and the copyrightability of the characters from \"Spawn\" #9. Several arguments were presented by McFarlane and all were rejected, leading to a sizable judgment against McFarlane and Image Comics. The matter went to appeal and the judgment was upheld in a 2003 decision.\n\nGaiman's rights as co-creator and co-owner of Cogliostro, Angela, and Medieval Spawn were acknowledged. The court's view was that Gaiman and McFarlane's collaboration led to each contributing half of the work. Gaiman wrote the story while McFarlane illustrated the character; because of this, each held a 50% stake in the characters. Issue 9 was reprinted for the first time since the lawsuit was filed in the hardcover edition of \"Spawn Origins: Volume 1\". In a reprint collection of the first twelve issues of \"Spawn\", the contentious issue (along with Dave Sim's #10, featuring copyrighted character Cerebus) was excluded, but both issues have been reprinted in the hardcover and deluxe editions \"Spawn Origins: Volume 1\". In 2012, McFarlane and Gaiman settled their dispute, and Gaiman was given full ownership of the character Angela.\n\nTodd McFarlane created a mob enforcer character named \"Antonio 'Tony Twist' Twistelli\", who McFarlane acknowledged was named after hockey player Tony Twist. Twist won a $15 million verdict in 2004 when a St. Louis, Missouri jury found Todd McFarlane Productions had profited from Twist's likeness. The verdict was upheld after two appeals in June 2006, but the two later settled out of court for $5 million.\n\n\n\nMany issues of \"Spawn\" have been gathered together in various trade paperbacks collections since the mid-nineties. The original US and UK trade releases contain issue 9, but not 10 (Cerebus' appearance).\n\nEach containing four to five issues, the original \"Spawn\" trade paperbacks started in 1995 under a different trade cover design. After the live-action 1997 movie, a new trade cover design was created, with Brent Ashe providing new covers for Books 1–7, and Ashley Wood for Books 8–12. These reissues were retitled with subtitles. The sequential trades stopped after Book 12, but several new volumes appeared in 2006–2008, collecting various story arcs. Beginning in 2009, a new series of volumes was released, collecting the \"Endgame\" storyline.\n\n\nIn 2005 the entire \"Spawn\" series began to appear in massive trade paperback releases under the title \"Spawn Collection\", each containing (with the exception of Volume 1) approximately twenty issues. Released after the Gaiman lawsuit, these editions do not contain either Issue 9 (featuring the first appearance of Angela and Cogliostro, both created by Neil Gaiman) or Issue 10 (featuring Dave Sim's Cerebus).\n\n\"Spawn Collection\" Volumes 1 and 2 were published in both hardcover and trade paperback formats, while Volume 3 onward were only released as trade paperbacks. As of 2009, \"Spawn Collection Volume 1\" is currently out of print, with its fourth printing released in June 2007. In 2009 it was announced that the \"Spawn Collection\" would end with Volume 6, to be replaced by a new TBP format that includes soft- and hardcover versions, reprinting the entire \"Spawn\" series from the early issues once again (see below).\n\n\n\"Spawn Collection Volume 1\" was ranked 17 in the top 100 graphic novels for December 2005 period, with pre-order sales of 3,227.\n\nIn 2012, \"Spawn Compendium\" was released, reprinting issues #1–50 at 1136 pages in black and white. The book went to a second printing in March 2016.\n\nIn 2009, a line of newly redesigned and reformatted trade paperbacks was announced, replacing the \"Spawn Collection\" line (see above) and once again collecting the early issues of \"Spawn\". These new trades feature new cover art by Greg Capullo, recreating classic \"Spawn\" covers. In addition to the 6 issue trade paperbacks, this line features three oversized 12–13 issue hardcovers, and two large 25-issue limited slipcased deluxe editions (which come in both a standard edition and a signed and numbered edition limited to 500 copies). The 12-issue hardcover edition of Volume One was the first to reprint both Issues 9 and 10, and the 25-issue deluxe editions did as well.\n\n\n\nThese releases were originally published in fifteen 5–6–issue volumes in the UK by Titan Books, with titles named by religious theme. The following books contained original series issues 1–82, with the exception of the previously mentioned Issue 10.\n\n\nOriginally published by a South African publisher named Battle Axe Press in the early 1990s. Only the first 10 issues were published due to legal matters. The comic book prints were released on standard paper as opposed to the original glossy paper from Image comics.\n\nSeveral \"Spawn\"-related mini-series have been collected in trade paperback editions.\n\n\nA few \"Spawn\"-related mini-series have been collected in HC editions.\n\nMost of the \"Curse of the Spawn\" – spin-off series has been collected in trade paperback editions.\n\n\n\nSpawn has starred in several video games:\n\n\n\nSpawn has also been referenced or parodied in other forms of media, including:\n\nIn 2011, Spawn was featured in the tenth episode of the ScrewAttack series \"Death Battle\", where he fought and defeated Kratos from \"God of War\".\n\nSpawn appears very briefly as an avatar in the final battle in Steven Spielbergs’ 2018 film Ready Player One.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40373227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40373227", "title": "Storme Toolis", "text": "Storme Toolis\n\nStorme Toolis (born 26 November 1992) is an actress who lives in London and whose family come from Achill Island in County Mayo, Ireland. Her mother is Dea Birkett, a television and print journalist; she has a younger brother, River and a younger sister, Savanna.\n\nShe first appeared on film in Channel 4's \"The Inbetweeners\" as an extra, and then as a minor character in \"The Inbetweeners Movie\", based on the earlier television series, subsequently joining the cast of \"New Tricks\" as \"Holly Griffin\" in August 2013 in series 10 of the show.\n\nStorme is one of the few disabled actors in Britain, and across the world, to play a minor role in a mainstream drama where the disability of her character is not a feature of the plot, and her role has been compared to Walt Jr in the US Breaking Bad series.\n\nStorme is often seen as a patient but determined advocate of the rights of disabled actors to play disabled roles.\n\nToolis is also currently a drama student at the University of Kent.\n\nShe has cerebral palsy and uses a wheelchair.\n"}
