{"id": "33550508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33550508", "title": "Amy Ellis", "text": "Amy Ellis\n\nAmy Burns Ellis is an Associate Professor in the Department of Mathematics and Science Education at the University of Georgia. She was formerly an Associate Professor in Mathematics Education in the department of Curriculum & Instruction at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.\n\nEllis received her BA in Mathematics (with a minor in Japanese) from Washington University in Saint Louis in 1993, and her MA in Mathematics from San Jose State University in 1998. She received her PhD in Mathematics and Science Education in May, 2004, from the University of California at San Diego and San Diego State University. Her dissertation was titled \"Relationships Between Generalizing and Justifying: Students’ Reasoning with Linear Functions.\"\n\nEllis has published articles in the Journal for Research in Mathematics Education, Cognition and Instruction, The Journal of the Learning Sciences, Science, and various other journals. In addition, Ellis has co-authored three books for the Essential Understandings Project book series by the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, one published in 2010 one in 2011, and one in 2012.\n\nEllis is a principal investigator on a variety of research projects, and has received numerous grants from the National Science Foundation, as well as other funding agencies.\n\nEllis was awarded the \"Early Career Publication Award\" from the Research in Mathematics Education special interest group of the American Educational Research Association in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2118264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118264", "title": "Applied Scholastics", "text": "Applied Scholastics\n\nApplied Scholastics is a non-profit corporation founded in 1972 to promote the use of study techniques created by L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of the Church of Scientology. Hubbard called his theories on learning and education \"study technology.\" Applied Scholastics runs the \"Hollywood Education and Literacy Project\" (HELP), the World Literacy Crusade, \"Education Alive\", and the \"Literacy, Education and Abilities Program\" (LEAP).\n\nApplied Scholastics' declared mission is: \"to promote and develop programs of effective education for educators, business trainers, tutors, parents, children and people in all walks of life who need improved study skills to enhance their scholastic, business and personal activities.\"\n\nApplied Scholastics is sponsored by the Church of Scientology.\n\nStudy Tech is a teaching methodology developed by L. Ron Hubbard.\n\nHubbard's theories on education describe three \"barriers to learning\". The first is the absence of mass, pertaining to the lack of a physical object relating to a concept. The second is a steep study \"gradient\", meaning a necessary previous step was skipped to master a skill. The third is the \"misunderstood word\", which necessitates looking up unclear words in the dictionary.\n\nStudents are taught that \"misunderstood words\" are a major cause of confusion and misunderstanding. They are taught to use dictionaries extensively. Emphasis is also put on making sure children are taught at a \"gradient\", so that a subject's crucial elementary concepts come before more difficult concepts. \"Mass\" is described as a measure of mental tangibility that students ascribe to a subject, so that students have a picture in their mind of the thing they are learning about.\n\nApplied Scholastics licenses Study Tech to a number of schools throughout the world. In return, these schools pay 4% of their gross income to Applied Scholastics.\n\nIn 1992, Applied Materials settled a lawsuit for an estimated $600,000. The lawsuit claimed that the three former employees who filed the lawsuit had been driven out of the company because they had complained about the seminars Applied Scholastics had been contracted to teach there. Applied Scholastics said regarding the case, \"In ten years of business, we've never had anything come up like this.\" \n\nIn 1998, the group submitted five of its books for approval as supplemental classroom texts to the California Department of Education. The review board found no religious content to object to, although they did object to the lack of portrayals of disabled persons and people of color. The Southern California American Civil Liberties Union, however, objected on the basis that the books used many of the terms and concepts that the Church of Scientology uses elsewhere in its Study Tech.\n\nIn the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, Applied Scholastics convinced the principal of Prescott Middle School in Baton Rouge, Louisiana to implement a program of Study Tech. Critics worried that the move was \"an insidious plan ultimately aimed at promoting Scientology.\" However, Prescott's principal and two education experts claimed that they \"saw [no] hidden Scientology agenda or proselytizing in the text.\" The school's principal felt that the program was worthwhile. In October 2005, St. Louis Public Schools superintendent Creg Williams discovered the group's Scientology connections and immediately advised area principals to cease working with Applied Scholastics. Additionally, CEO Bennetta Slaughter falsely claimed a \"partnership\" with the Hazelwood School District in St. Louis.\n\nSome parents were upset when Applied Scholastics methods were introduced in September 2008 at Bambolino Montessori Academy, a private school in Toronto. The owner/principal and dean of the school are both Scientologists but they say that Applied Scholastics is secular and that they do not teach Scientology.\n\nIn 2013, a charter school group in Phoenix, Arizona came under criticism for using tools provided by Applied Scholastics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30094514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30094514", "title": "Association for Laboratory Phonology", "text": "Association for Laboratory Phonology\n\nThe Association for Laboratory Phonology is a non-profit professional society for researchers interested in the sound structure of language. It was founded to promote the scientific study of all aspects of phonetics and phonology of oral and sign languages through scholarly exchange across disciplines and through the use of a hybrid methodology. The founding and honorary members are Amalia Arvaniti, Mary Beckman, Cathi Best, Catherine Browman, Jennifer S. Cole, Mariapaola D'Imperio, Louis M. Goldstein, José Ignacio Hualde, Patricia Keating, John Kingston, D.R. Ladd, Peter Ladefoged, Janet Pierrehumbert, Caroline Smith, Paul Warren and Douglas Whalen. The Association is an international body open to scholars world-wide, and currently has over 100 members. \n\nSince the Association's inception, the methodologies of laboratory phonology are emerging as the dominant approach to the study of sound systems in universities in North America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, and many other locations. In this way, the success of the approach promoted by the Association for Laboratory Phonology can be attributed to its interdisciplinary nature: bridging linguistics with psychology, computer science, etc., and defining the relationship between the cognitive and physical aspects of human speech as a question of cognitive science.\n\nThe biennial Conference on Laboratory Phonology (LabPhon) brings together researchers across the many relevant disciplines to present work on the phonological patterns and structures of natural languages. All oral paper sessions are plenary, and are organized to promote discussion across the disciplines. Each session groups together invited and submitted talks on a conference theme and ends with a talk by an invited discussant followed by an open discussion by the entire conference audience. Since the second conference in 1989, there have also been one or more poster sessions, which also are plenary. Conferences generally have between four and six themes, which are broadly defined in order to bring together speakers and commentators from different disciplines and theoretical backgrounds.\n\nThe proceedings of the Conference on Laboratory Phonology were published as Papers in Laboratory Phonology by Cambridge University Press from 1991 (Vol 1) to 2004 (Vol 6). Beginning with Vol 7, the series was renamed to Laboratory Phonology and published by Mouton de Gruyter. After the publication of Laboratory Phonology 10 in 2010, the book series was replaced by the journal Laboratory Phonology. The first six volumes of the journal were published by Mouton de Gruyter, and then starting with volume 7 in 2016, the journal moved to Ubiquity Press, to become an online-only, open-access publication. \nThe journal encompasses the scientific study of the elements of oral language, their organization, their grammatical function, and their role in speech communication. Research questions and some of the methods addressed in the publications also extend naturally to the parallel investigation of manual signs as the encoding elements of sign languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4224773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4224773", "title": "California Digital Library", "text": "California Digital Library\n\nThe California Digital Library (CDL) was founded by the University of California in 1997. In collaboration with the ten University of California Libraries and other partners, CDL has assembled one of the world’s largest digital research libraries. CDL facilitates the licensing of online materials and develops shared services used throughout the UC system. Building on the foundations of the Melvyl Catalog (UC’s union catalog), CDL has developed one of the largest online library catalogs in the country and works in partnership with the UC campuses to bring the treasures of California's libraries, museums, and cultural heritage organizations to the world. CDL continues to explore how services such as digital curation, scholarly publishing, archiving and preservation support research throughout the information lifecycle.\n\nThe California Digital Library (CDL) is an eleventh library for the University of California (UC). A collaborative effort of the ten campuses, organizationally housed at the University of California Office of the President, it is responsible for the design, creation, and implementation of systems that support the shared collections of the University of California. Several CDL projects focus on collaboration with other California Universities and organizations to create and extend access to digital material to UC partners and to the public at large.\n\nThe CDL was created as the result of a three-year planning process, beginning with the Digital Library Executive Working Group commissioned by Library Council and culminating with the Library Planning and Action Initiative commissioned by the Provost, which involved UC faculty, librarians, and administrators.\n\nThe Access & Publishing Group, comprising the Publishing and Digital Special Collections (DSC) teams, develops and maintains production services that enable robust access to the unique digital assets of the University of California and beyond. The Publishing team provides the University of California scholarly community with innovative digital publication and distribution opportunities through the development of advanced technologies and creative partnerships. The DSC team supports collaboration between libraries, archives, and museums throughout the State of California to provide access to a world class digital collection that serves an array of end users, from researchers and scholars to students and the general public.\n\neScholarship is a suite of open access scholarly publishing services and research tools that enable UC departments, research units, publishing programs, and individual scholars to have direct control over the creation and dissemination of their scholarship.\n\nThe Online Archive of California (OAC) provides free public access to primary sources—including manuscripts, photographs, artwork, scientific data and more—through more than 38,000 collection guides and 200,000 digitized images and documents.\n\nCalisphere is a free website that offers educators, students, and the public access to more than 200,000 primary sources such as photographs, documents, newspapers, political cartoons, works of art, diaries, transcribed oral histories, and other cultural artifacts. These materials reveal the diverse history and culture of California and its role in national and world history.\n\nThe Collection Development and Management Program oversees and coordinates shared library collections on behalf of the ten University of California campuses. The program acquires scholarly content, manages UC's mass digitization efforts, organizes and supports shared physical library collections, and is responsible for the system-wide negotiation and licensing of shared digital materials for the UC libraries.\n\nThese are the electronic journals, databases, ebooks and other e-resources licensed by CDL on behalf of and in coordination with the ten UC campuses.\n\nThe University of California Libraries' Shared Print collections consist of information resources jointly purchased or electively contributed by the libraries. Such resources are collectively governed and managed by the University Librarians.\n\nThe UC Libraries are digitizing millions of books from their collections through participation in mass digitization projects with Google, the Internet Archive, and the HathiTrust Digital Library. These projects expand the UC Libraries’ ability to give faculty, students and the public access to information and support our exploration of new service models.\n\nThe Shared Cataloging Program (SCP) provides catalog records for the University of California campus libraries. Established in January 2000, the program is based at UC San Diego.\n\nThe focus of the CDL's Discovery and Delivery team is the integration of library services and resources in order to remove barriers between users and content. The goal is to connect faculty, students, and staff with access to the University of California libraries’ extensive research collections.\n\nMelvyl is the discovery platform for the UC Libraries. Melvyl, powered by OCLC WorldCat Local, offers the ability to search 800 million+ items from research institutions throughout the world.\n\nUC-eLinks is a feature developed to request resources in the CDL. The UC-eLink button is inserted, through personalized URL manipulation, into library catalogs, online databases, citation programs, and in the citations of articles themselves. Users can then use UC-eLinks to access the associated publication, or request access if it is a print-only resource. Interlibrary loan requests can also be made. Additionally, UC-eLinks has provided a new opportunity for the analysis of user's resource utilization and request patterns.\n\nThe Request service provides interlibrary loan (ILL) and document delivery service (DDS) to UC faculty, students, and staff. Users can access Request from Melvyl, UC-eLinks, PubMed, or via Citation Linker.\n\nUC3 helps researchers and the UC libraries manage, preserve, and provide access to their important digital assets.\n\nMerritt is a repository service from the University of California Curation Center (UC3) that lets the UC community manage, archive, and share its digital content.\n\nEZID (easy-eye-dee) creates and manage unique, persistent identifiers.\n\nDMPTool helps researchers create and manage data management plans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5296641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5296641", "title": "Chabot Space and Science Center", "text": "Chabot Space and Science Center\n\nChabot Space and Science Center, located in Oakland, California, is a hands-on center featuring interactive exhibits, a digital planetarium, a large screen theater, hands-on activities and three powerful telescopes.\n\nThe Center is the continuation and expansion of a public observatory that has served San Francisco Bay Area schools and citizens with astronomy and science education programs since 1883. It is named after the father of hydraulic mining and benefactor of the original Oakland Observatory, Anthony Chabot. Since 2000, the Center has been located on the western border of Redwoods Regional Park.\n\nThe institution began in 1883 as the Oakland Observatory, through a gift from Anthony Chabot to the City of Oakland. The original Oakland Observatory was located in downtown Oakland and provided public telescope viewing for the community. For decades, it also served as the official timekeeping station for the entire Bay Area, measuring time with its transit telescope.\n\nThe observatory moved to its Mountain Boulevard location in 1915 due to increasing light pollution and urban congestion. In the mid-1960s, the facility was expanded considerably. Throughout this time, the Chabot Science Center, as it was renamed, was staffed mainly by Oakland Unified School District personnel and volunteers. In 1977, seismic safety concerns terminated public school students’ access to the original observatory facility. The observatory building remained open to the general public, but school activities were limited to outlying classroom buildings and the planetarium.\n\nRecognizing the need to restore full access to the facility, either by repair or relocation, in 1989 Chabot Observatory & Science Center was formed as a Joint Powers Agency with the City of Oakland, the Oakland Unified School District, and the East Bay Regional Park District, in collaboration with the Eastbay Astronomical Society, and in 1992 was recognized as a nonprofit organization. The project was led by Chabot's Executive Director and CEO, Dr. Michael D. Reynolds, breaking ground for the facility in October 1996 with construction of the new Science Center beginning in May 1998.\n\nIn January 2000, anticipating the opening of the new facility, the organization changed its name from Chabot Observatory & Science Center to Chabot Space & Science Center. The new name was chosen to better convey the organization's focus on astronomy and the space sciences, while communicating both the broad range and the technologically advanced nature of programs available in the new Science Center.\n\nOpened August 19, 2000, the Chabot Space & Science Center is an , state-of-the-art science and technology education facility on a site in the hills of Oakland, California. The museum was formerly an affiliate in the Smithsonian Affiliations program. but is currently no longer an affiliate.\n\nAside from its telescopes, it contains:\n\nChabot Space and Science Center has three observatory telescopes. \"Leah\", an 8\" refractor telescope, was built in 1883 by Alvan Clark and donated by Anthony Chabot. \"Rachel\" is a 20\" refractor telescope, commissioned in 1914 from Warner & Swasey, with optics by John Brashear. It is the largest refractor in the western United States regularly open to the public. \"Nellie\" is a 36\" reflecting telescope which opened in June 2003 and is housed in a rolling roof observatory.\n\n\nLeah\n<br>\nMeridian Transit Telescope\n<br>\nRachel\n<br>\nNellie\n\nThe Planetarium seats 250 people under a diameter dome, and features live weekly shows and daily pre-recorded \"fulldome\" shows. The weekly live shows are presented by a staff astronomer.\n\n\"Cosmos 360\" uses the planetarium's digital fulldome system to view the night sky as well as flying through space to see the universe from a different perspective. The guided tour include in-depth views of planets, constellations and other current astronomical events. The show is updated to reflect seasonal night skies.\n\nThe daily shows range from content geared for young children through more sophisticated shows designed for a general audience.\n\nA complete schedule and listing of daily shows as well as current show times can be found at the center's planetarium page.\n\nThe Chabot Space and Science Center offers volunteer and educational opportunities to local teens, who work as explainers on the museum floor or on outreach trips. The program was initiated by a grant from \"YouthALIVE!\" (Youth Achievement through Learning Involvement, Volunteer and Employment!) through the Association of Science-Technology Centers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3624240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3624240", "title": "Chagurin", "text": "Chagurin\n\nThe magazine was started under the name \"Kodomo no Hikari\" in 1964. The publication is funded by the Central Union of Agricultural Cooperatives. It is published on a monthly basis.\n\nIn August 1993 the title of the magazine was changed into its current name, \"Chagurin\". The goal of the magazine is to educate the next generation of Japan Agricultural Cooperative (or \"JA\") members. The magazine is difficult to find in the average bookstore in Japan, but it can be purchased at any local JA office. Clear submission guidelines for the children of the magazine's readers are available at any local JA office as well. The contents of \"Chagurin\" are intended to be similar to the educational magazines published by Shogakukan up through the 1960s, and has received a recommendation from the National PTA of Japan.\n\nLike other magazines aimed at children, it includes a variety of manga. However, the manga found in \"Chagurin\" tends to be fairly mainstream, non-controversial, and is not generally collected in tankōbon format (\"Doraemon\" and \"Kiteretsu Daihyakka\" being exceptions).\n\n"}
{"id": "38159876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38159876", "title": "Cooper Harold Langford", "text": "Cooper Harold Langford\n\nCooper Harold Langford (25 August 1895, Dublin, Logan County, Arkansas – 28 August 1964) was an analytic philosopher and mathematical logician who co-authored the book \"Symbolic Logic\" (1932) with C. I. Lewis.\n\nAfter spending his freshman year at the University of Arkansas, Langford transferred in 1915 to Clark University, where he received his A.B. degree in 1920. His college education was interrupted by World War I in 1917 when he joined the U.S. army and spent 20 months overseas. After receiving his A.B. degree, Langford enrolled in 1920 as a graduate student at Harvard University, where he earned his Ph.D. in psychology under Edwin Boring in 1924. With the aid of a Sheldon Traveling Fellowship, he studied logic and philosophy at Cambridge University during 1924–1925. Upon his return to the U.S., Langford became an instructor at Harvard from 1925 to 1927. After spending two academic years, 1927–1929, as an assistant professor at the University of Washington, he became in the autumn of 1929 an associate professor with tenure in the philosophy department at the University of Michigan. Langford became a full professor at U. Michigan in 1933, remaining there for the rest of his career. In the academic year 1935–1936, he was a Guggenheim fellow, dividing his time between Vienna and Cambridge England.\n\nLangford is famous as co-author of the 1932 book \"Symbolic Logic\" and the system of modal logic S5. His doctoral students include Arthur Burks.\n\nIn Philosophy of Language Langford is known for the Langford Substitution test. The test distinguishes used from merely mentioned expressions in a given sentence by translating the sentence into a different language (see Langford 1937). If the very same expression reoccurs in the translation, it was mentioned rather than used in the original sentence. If the expression does not reoccur and is replaced by some other (usually synonymous) expression, then it was used in the original sentence. This test is used by a famous argument from Alonzo Church concerning Carnaps treatment of belief attributions and other analyses of beliefs as relations to sentences (see Church 1950).\n\nLangford was married twice. His son Cooper H. Langford was a chemist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3697277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3697277", "title": "Easter term", "text": "Easter term\n\nEaster term is the summer term at the University of Cambridge, the University of Wales, Lampeter, University of Durham, and formerly University of Newcastle upon Tyne (before 2004), in the United Kingdom. It runs from April to June.\n\nThe expression is also used for the third term of the legal year in the Courts of England and Wales, many schools and other educational institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "14139425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14139425", "title": "Ecological literacy", "text": "Ecological literacy\n\nEcological literacy (also referred to as \"ecoliteracy\") is the ability to understand the natural systems that make life on earth possible. To be ecoliterate means understanding the principles of organization of ecological communities (i.e. ecosystems) and using those principles for creating sustainable human communities. The term was coined by American educator David W. Orr and physicist Fritjof Capra in the 1990s- thereby a new value entered education; the “well-being of the earth”. \n\nAn ecologically literate society would be a sustainable society which did not destroy the natural environment on which they depend. Ecological literacy is a powerful concept as it creates a foundation for an integrated approach to environmental problems. Advocates champion eco-literacy as a new educational paradigm emerging around the poles of holism, systems thinking, sustainability, and complexity. \n\nEcoliteracy concerns understanding the principles of organisation of ecosystems and their potential application to understanding how to build a sustainable human society. It combines the sciences of systems and ecology in drawing together elements required to foster learning processes toward a deep appreciation of nature and our role in it. Systems thinking is the recognition of the world as an integrated whole rather than a collection of individual elements. Within systems thinking, basic principles of organization become more important than the analysis of various components of the system in isolation. Ecological literacy and systems thinking implies a recognition of the manner in which all phenomenon are part of networks that define the way that element functions. Systems thinking is necessary to understand complex interdependence of ecological systems, social systems and other systems on all levels.\n\nAccording to Fritjof Capra, “In the coming decades, the survival of humanity will depend on our ecological literacy – our ability to understand the basic principles of ecology and to live accordingly. This means that ecoliteracy must become a critical skill for politicians, business leaders, and professionals in all spheres, and should be the most important part of education at all levels – from primary and secondary schools to colleges, universities, and the continuing education and training of professionals.” David W. Orr has stated that the goal of ecological literacy is “built on the recognition that the disorder of ecosystems reflects a prior disorder of mind, making it a central concern to those institutions that purport to improve minds. In other words, the ecological crisis is in every way a crisis of education... All education is environmental education… by what is included or excluded we teach the young that they are part of or apart from the natural world.” He also emphasizes that ecoliteracy does not only require mastery of subject matter, but the creation of meaningful connections between head, hands, and heart as well. \n\nOthers have reiterated the urgent importance of ecological literacy in today's world, where young people are faced with escalating environmental challenges, including climate change, depletion of resources, and environmentally linked illnesses. \n\nWith an understanding of ecological literacy, perceptions naturally shift. The need to protect the ecosystems is not simply a belief held by environmentalists; it is a biological imperative for survival over the time. This value will become a basic principle for prioritizing thought and action in a sustainable society. In the face of the increasing capacity of industrial systems to destroy habitats and the climate system, the explicit declaration of the principles of ecological literacy – and the resulting awareness of the importance of living within the ecological carrying capacity of the earth, is increasingly necessary. Whether ecoliteracy can address the infamous value-action gap is unclear.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9441510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9441510", "title": "Education in Lower Dir District", "text": "Education in Lower Dir District\n\nEducation in Lower Dir District in Pakistan.\n\nThe total gross enrollment ratio is 73.83% without including Kachi and 79.59% including Kachi class. Student teacher ratio is 43 students per teacher and there are 41 boys per male teacher and 46 girls per female teacher.\n\nAccording to the recent Universal Primary Education (UPE) survey, the total number of children in the age group 5–7 years is 104,498 in which 56,937 are boys and 47,561 are girls. Due to the limited access the number of the out of school children among the age group (5–7 years) are 25,169, almost 24% children of the total (age group 5–7 years) are out of the school. In which 19% are boys and 30% are girls. These figures also include the dropped out students both boys and girls.\n\nThere are 1,023 villages in district Dir lower. There are:\n\nBeside the government primary schools, Khwendo Kor NGO is running 15 schools, Elementary Education Foundation (EEF) is running 25 schools, ILO is running 7 schools and Non Formal Basic Education (NFBE) is running 95 schools. The numbers of madrassas (religious schools) are not yet available.\n\nThe adult literacy ratio of the district among the population aged 10 years and above is 93.9 percent which has increased significantly since 1981 when it was just 10.16 percent .The male literacy ratio is higher i.e. 95.76 compared to 85.25 percent for females, according to census report 1998. In district Dir some government and some non government organizations are working on adult literacy.\n\nThe term Quality Education needs clarity and no such practices are observed in the schools. The PTAs are formed in the schools according to government procedures, but these are only limited to school petty repairs and not involved in the school management.\n\nIn District Dir the schools and literacy department is supported by the World Food Programme (WFP) for a girls enrollment enhancement programme. They provide the edible oil to the girls enrolled in the low enrollment school. There is need of developing more partnerships among these stakeholders so that the problems of education especially in the female education are solved.\n\nThe NGO Khwendo Kor (KK) started a project on “Promotion of Girls Education in Dir” in this project KK strengthened and transformed the VECs (Village Education Committees) formed around the Community Based Girl Schools. The PRAs (Participatory Rural Appraisal) was carried out in 25 villages. Other activities running in District Dir are Women and Men Organization formation, the capacity building of the women organization and men organization was made in social activist, record keeping, PRAs, financial management etc.\n\nKK has now initiated a project on female education in Dir. This project is the combination of some activities, like the Development of District Education Planning, reactivating, strengthening and capacity building of PTAs, EFA forum activation and strengthening, educational budget tracking and Education Facilitation Center establishment, functionalization of the middle and primary schools. KK will facilitate the PTAs to register themselves as CCB with district government and get extra funds from the district development budget. This project will strengthen the public private partnership in education sector. KK has already signed the MoU with School and Literacy Department for undertaking these activities. \nCRC (SPARC) Child rights committee for Lower Dir district has also focused recently on the Education ratio in Lower Dir. CRC is a voluntary organization of SPARC working for the children rights in Lower Dir by means of lobbying and advocacy. CRC has now started a campaign against child marriage. Child marriage is also one of those harmful traditional practices which has been declared a criminal offence by the Child Marriage Restraint act 1929, yet they are being held with impunity throughout KPK, where the tradition has stronger roots than law.\n\nAccording to the EMIS] of the School and literacy department, schools have different problems like drinking water supply, boundary walls, electricity and latrines. After devolution plan improvements are still awaited and the involvement of elected representatives in the monitoring and problem solving will take time. The role of CCBs in the education and schools is not explored and it can give better results if they are engaged in the education.\n\nEducation & literacy Department, Lower Dir District\n\nEMIS\n\nCCB\n\n"}
{"id": "17547999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17547999", "title": "Escape Studios", "text": "Escape Studios\n\nEscape Studios is a visual effects academy situated in High Holborn offering short courses and degrees at undergraduate and postgraduate level. A subsidiary of Pearson College London since 2013, Escape Studios' primary offering includes study programmes in Visual Effects (VFX), Game Art and Animation, with short courses available in Motion Graphics.\n\nEscape Studios is considered amongst the leading visual effects academies in Europe, with alumni being involved in various high profile projects. Their courses have been commended for their industry relevance and excellence. Industry partners include Framestore, The Mill, MPC, Electric Theatre Collective, Jellyfish Pictures, Bluebolt, Cinesite, DNeg and Milk.\n\nEscape Studios was initially founded in April 2002 as an independent visual effects academy based in Shepherds Bush, London, offering short courses in Visual Effects (VFX), Game Art, Animation and later Motion Graphics. In October 2013 it was acquired by Pearson plc, and from September 2015 it began offering degrees at graduate level (followed by undergraduate degrees from 2016) as a subsidiary of Pearson College London. Escape Studios' primary offerings are in three areas: Visual Effects (VFX), Animation and Game Art, although short courses are available in Motion Graphics. They recently moved from their former Shepherds Bush campus to Pearson College's new 'MidTown' campus in High Holborn to facilitate the teaching of their new undergraduate degrees. The third floor, opened in September 2018, is exclusive to Escape Studios students, while the floors below are shared between students of Escape Studios and Pearson Business School.\n"}
{"id": "48715391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48715391", "title": "Every Student Succeeds Act", "text": "Every Student Succeeds Act\n\nThe Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) is a US law passed in December 2015 that governs the United States K–12 public education policy. The law replaced its predecessor, the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB), and modified but did not eliminate provisions relating to the periodic standardized tests given to students. Like the No Child Left Behind Act, ESSA is a reauthorization of the 1965 Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which established the federal government's expanded role in public education.\n\nThe Every Student Succeeds Act passed both chambers of Congress with bipartisan support.\n\nThe bill is the first to narrow the United States federal government's role in elementary and secondary education since the 1980s. The ESSA retains the hallmark annual standardized testing requirements of the 2001 No Child Left Behind Act but shifts the law's federal accountability provisions to states. Under the law, students will continue to take annual tests between the third and eighth grades.\n\nESSA leaves significantly more control to the states and districts in determining the standards students are held to. States are required to submit their goals and standards and how they plan to achieve them to the US Department of Education, which must then submit additional feedback, and eventually approve. In doing so, the DOE still holds states accountable by ensuring they are implementing complete and ambitious, yet feasible goals. Students will then be tested each year from third through eighth grade and then once again their junior year of high school. These standardized tests will determine each student's capabilities in the classroom, and the success of the state in implementing its plans. The states are also left to determine the consequences low-performing schools might face and how they will be supported in the following years. The USDOE defines low-performing schools as those in the bottom ten percent of the state, based on the number of students who successfully graduate or the number of students who test proficient in reading or language arts and mathematics. Another primary goal of the ESSA is preparing all students, regardless of race, income, disability, ethnicity, or proficiency in English, for a successful college experience and fulfilling career. Therefore, ESSA also requires schools to offer college and career counseling and advanced placement courses to all students.\n\nThe No Child Left Behind Act was due for reauthorization in 2007, but was not pursued for a lack of bipartisan cooperation. Many states failed to meet the NCLB's standards, and the Obama Administration granted waivers to many states for schools that showed success but failed under the NCLB standards. However, these waivers usually required schools to adopt academic standards such as the Common Core. The NCLB was generally praised for forcing schools and states to become more accountable for ensuring the education of poor and minority children. However, the increase in standardized testing that occurred during the presidencies of Bush and Obama met with resistance from many parents, and many called for a lessened role for the federal government in education.\nSimilarly, the president of the National Education Association decried the NCLB's \"one-size-fits-all model ... of test, blame and punish.\"\n\nFollowing his 2014 re-election, Senate HELP Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN), who had served as Education Secretary under President George H.W. Bush, decided to pursue a major rewrite of No Child Left Behind. Alexander and Patty Murray (D-WA), the ranking member of the HELP committee, collaborated to write a bipartisan bill that could pass the Republican-controlled Congress and earn the signature of President Barack Obama. At the same time, John Kline (R-MN), chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, pushed his own bill in the House. In July 2015, each chamber of the United States Congress passed their own renewals of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. President Obama remained largely outside of the negotiations, though Alexander did win Obama's promise to not threaten to veto the bill during negotiations. As the House and Senate negotiated for the passage of a single bill in both houses, Bobby Scott (D-VA), the ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, became a key player in ensuring Democratic votes in the House. By September 2015, the House and Senate had been able to resolve most of the major differences, but continued to differ on how to evaluate schools and how to respond to schools that perform poorly. House and Senate negotiators agreed to a proposal from Scott to allow the federal government to mandate specific circumstances in which states had to intervene in schools, while broadly giving states leeway in how to rate schools and in how to help struggling schools. Other major provisions included a pre-K program (at the urging of Murray), a provision to help ensure that states would not be able to exempt large swaths of students from testing (at the behest of civil rights groups), and restrictions on the power of the Education Secretary (at the urging of Alexander and Kline). The surprise resignation of Speaker John Boehner nearly derailed the bill, but incoming Speaker Paul Ryan's support of the bill helped ensure its passage. In December 2015, the House passed the bill in a 359–64 vote; days later, the Senate passed the bill in an 85–12 vote. President Obama signed the bill into law on December 10, 2015.\n\nThe Every Student Succeeds Act also sets new mandates on expectations and requirements for students with disabilities. Most students with disabilities will be required to take the same assessments and will be held to the same standards as other students. ESSA allows for only one percent of students, accounting for ten percent of students with disabilities, to be excused from the usual standardized testing. This one percent is reserved for students with severe cognitive disabilities, who will be required to take an alternate assessment instead. This is a smaller percentage of students than under past mandates, mainly because there is not enough staff available to administer the assessments to the students one-on-one. The Department of Education does not define disabled, rather, each state decides its own definition in order to determine which students will be allowed to take the alternate assessment. This could prove to be more challenging, though, when it comes to comparing students to one another because not all states will define disabled the same way. The ESSA has also recognized that bullying and harassment in schools disproportionately affects students with disabilities. Because of this, the ESSA requires states to develop and implement plans on how they will combat and attempt to reduce bullying incidents on their campuses.\n\nLibby Nelson of \"Vox\" wrote that the ESSA was a victory for conservatives who wished to see federal control of school accountability transferred to states, and that states could choose to make less effort to improve schools serving impoverished students.\n\nAn inauguration day directive on January 20, 2017 from President Donald Trump’s Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff “Regulatory Freeze Pending Review” delayed implementation of new regulations, including portions of the Every Student Succeeds Act. On February 10, 2017, U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos wrote to chief state school officers that “states should continue their work” in developing their ESSA plans and noted that a revised template may be issued.\n\n"}
{"id": "10015912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10015912", "title": "Evolving capacities", "text": "Evolving capacities\n\nEvolving capacities is the concept in which education, child development and youth development programs led by adults take into account the capacities of the child or youth to exercise rights on his or her own behalf. It is also directly linked to the right to be heard, requiring adults to be mindful of their responsibilities to respect children's rights, protect them from harm, and provide opportunities so they can exercise their rights. The concept of evolving capacities is employed internationally as a direct alternative to popular concepts of child and youth development. \n\nThe concept of evolving capacities of the child first emerged in international law through the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Article Five of the Convention says that:\n\nArticle twelve also addresses evolving capacities, stating that:\nEvolving capacities recognizes that as children acquire enhanced competencies there is less need for protection and a greater possibility that they can take responsibility for decisions affecting their lives. It is presupposed by the gradualist conception of children's rights, which suggests that children move progressively from a situation in which their rights primarily protect their interests to one in which their rights primarily protect their choices. The Convention allows for the recognition that children in different environments and cultures, and faced with diverse life experiences, will acquire competencies at different ages. This is the reason why the Committee on the Rights of the Child has sought information on minimum legal ages for legal and medical counseling or medical treatment without parental consent, creating and joining associations, and participating in administrative and judicial proceedings when it developed the guidelines relating to Article 1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. \n\nThe Canadian International Development Agency reports that there are three primary points to consider regarding evolving capacities:\n\nAdequate and systematic documentation is an example of initiatives that integrate the concept of evolving capacities in education. The strategy can support teacher determine how learners' capacities evolve over time and develop necessary interventions and responses to meaningfully address individual children's right to development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56493497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56493497", "title": "F10 (incubator)", "text": "F10 (incubator)\n\nF10 is a startup incubator and accelerator founded in 2016. Its accelerator programs, helps startups in connecting with the other Swiss entrepreneurs, experts, mentors and investors for the early stage venture and late stage venture investing. The company is a non-profit organization and based in Zurich.\n\nIn 2014, SIX (Switzerland’s stock exchange) launched a new project to accelerate their innovation process which grew into F10 and it was formally launched as FinTech Startup Incubator / Accelerator in August 2015 by Markus Graf and Andreas Iten. F10 launched the 6-month “Prototype to Product” P2 program and held its first program in July 2017 in which 14 startups was selected from 260 international teams from the financial, Insurance and regulatory technology sector. F10 accelerator program investors include SIX, PwC Switzerland, Julius Bär, Raiffeisen, Zürcher Kantonalbank, Baloise Group, Generali Group Switzerland, ERI Bancaire and eny Finance that helps startups promising ideas into a company. Notable investments include Appetita, CashSentinel, Data XL, Riskifier and Brainalyzed.\n\nStartups can apply for Prototype to Product” P2 program and their viability is judged by the Managing Director of the program, in which startups will be supported in transitioning their prototype to a sellable product. Each team will be supported by a coach from the F10 team and external mentor. Once the teams are selected into its accelerator program, they have access to working space at F10 in Zurich.\n"}
{"id": "6131268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6131268", "title": "Fourth year", "text": "Fourth year\n\nFourth year, also known as S4, is the fourth year of schooling in Scottish, Venezuelan, Ecuadorian, Colombian, and other Latin American countries secondary schools, and is roughly equivalent to Year 10 in England and Wales and Year 12 (Sixth Form) in Northern Ireland. In Latin American countries, it is equal to the United States high school's senior year, but the Scottish S4 is equivalent to 10th grade. Most pupils are 15 or 16 years old at the end of S4. It is at the end of this year the pupils completed their Standard Grade, or Intermediates examinations, as of 2013 it is the National 4/5 examinations for the new Curriculum for Excellence . It is also usually the last year of compulsory education in Scotland, depending on what time of the year the pupil was born. Near the end of fourth year pupils pick the subjects they want to take for highers (or A levels as they call it in England). They can also leave school if they are 16.\n\nThe term can also refer to the fourth year of a university course.\n"}
{"id": "17617862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17617862", "title": "FraLine", "text": "FraLine\n\nfraLine is a non-profit (research) project of Frankfurt University of Applied Sciences. Project and research activities focus on IT services management for schools and the use of digital media in educational settings. fraLine is also a joint project between the University of Applied Sciences and the city of Frankfurt am Main (represented by the \"Stadtschulamt\" = municipal school-maintaining body). fraLine and the city of Frankfurt cooperate in the fields of IT support and IT service management in educational contexts as well as technical implementation of digital media in class. fraLine also cooperates with the Hessian state education authority (\"\") in the field of media education and digital media training for teachers. \nfraLine was launched in 2001 and employs mainly technical students of the University of Applied Sciences and Goethe University Frankfurt, but also IT professionals, engineers and media educators.\n\nfraLine conducts research in the fields of IT service management according to ITIL recommendations as well as in the field of IT support and digital media use in educational contexts including educational software, media literacy etc. \nResearch results and concepts are provided to the city of Frankfurt (\"Stadtschulamt\") for the improvement of information technology in schools and the establishment of a centrally managed school IT infrastructure in the municipal area. Therefore, fraLine also offers advisory services to the city of Frankfurt, to all municipal schools as well as other educational institutions on topics such as acquisition of computers or computer parts, hardware, IT security, remote service etc.\n\nResearch in technical areas is complemented by studies in media education. Results in the field of media education and current media projects are presented on the annual expert conference \"fraMediale\" which is hosted and organized by fraLine.\n\nfraLine developed the \"fraDesk\", a multi-user capable trouble ticket system for coordinating and documenting customer requests, incident reports or general processes based on division of labor. fraLine uses this software in its own everyday routine. The \"fraDesk\" is free software and was presented at the CeBIT 2008 in Hanover, Germany.\n\nOther research projects conducted by fraLine employees include the development of standard resource administration and user management for schools, improvement of school support via remote maintenance and support, but also media educational topics such as content filtering, evaluation of educational software and media communication.\n\nfraLine publishes relevant information for schools as well as research results in the form of test reports and academic papers, a glossary, and a large set of FAQ. The FAQ database is a practical knowledge base Knowledge base and used as a point of reference for local teachers and others. It includes technical tutorials and information on the Frankfurt local school network, operating systems, software, hardware, peripheral equipment, the Internet, licenses and rights of utilization. \nAdditionally, fraLine offers tutorials and introductory courses imparting theoretical and practical knowledge to school teachers and school IT representatives in Frankfurt.\n\nThe fraLine student team offers practical IT support to all 152 schools in Frankfurt by operating a telephone hotline, the Internet-based helpdesk \"fraDesk\" and through on-site service. Financed by public funds through the city of Frankfurt the service is free of charge for schools. It covers everyday troubleshooting relating to hardware and software, as well as software installation, actualisation and handling. In order to coordinate its support services, fraLine cooperates with so-called \"IT representatives\" in every school. They are appointed by their school principals and responsible for collecting IT-incidents and requests in their schools and communicating them to fraLine. Here, fraLine functions as first point of contact (\"single-point-of-contact\"). If problems cannot be solved by telephone, fraLine employees visit schools on-site or help them to refer their request to the competent authorities (e.g. school maintaining body (\"Stadtschulamt\"), or the Department of Information and Communicational Technology). It is sometimes criticized that IT-support carried out by students does not match the schools´ need for a \"professional\" support. On the other hand, only senior students who are identified as possessing the necessary qualifications are accepted at the project. \nIn addition to the technical support, fraLine also offers training courses for teachers and school administration staff in the fields of IT-infrastructure and media use in educational contexts. \nAs another way to support schools, fraLine launched the project \"educational-technical assistance\". As part of this project, fraLine employees accompany teachers during class offering them technical assistance with the digital media devices they plan to use in their lesson. The project aims at reducing technical insecurities of teachers and wants to promote a broader use of digital media in education.\n\nfraLine contributes to various multi-organisational and interdisciplinary initiatives in Frankfurt am Main, in the federal state of Hesse and in Germany responding to the growing demand for a sensible use of media in education. Thus, fraLine maintains close partnerships with its sister projects in Bremen and Hamburg. \nIn 2007, fraLine was awarded with the \"Germany – Land of Ideas\" award. \"Land of Ideas\" is an initiative under the patronage of former German Federal President Horst Köhler. Public or private institutions that have developed innovations and ideas are nominated as so-called \"landmarks in the land of ideas\" for one year.\n\n"}
{"id": "3319113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3319113", "title": "Glenlee (ship)", "text": "Glenlee (ship)\n\nGlenlee is a steel-hulled three-masted barque, built in 1896 for Glasgow owners, trading as a cargo ship. From 1922 she was a sail training ship in the Spanish Navy. She is now a museum ship at the Riverside Museum on Pointhouse Quay, Glasgow, known as The Tall Ship at Glasgow Harbour.\n\n\"Glenlee\" was built by Anderson Rodger & Company at their Bay Shipyard in Port Glasgow for the Glen-line of the Glasgow shipping company Archibald Sterling & Co. Ltd., and was launched on 3 December 1896. She has a hull length of , beam of and depth of , the over-all length with the spike bowsprit is .\n\nShe has 1,613 GRT and 1,490 NRT. Rigged only with double topgallant sails over double top sails, she was not equipped with royal sails (baldheader rigging) to save costs concerning gear and seamen. As with many baldheaded sailing ships the square sails were a little wider than the sails of a standard rigging to gain sail area for a better propulsion.\n\nOn 13 December 1896, just ten days after she was launched fully rigged and seaworthy, her maiden voyage brought her in ballast to Liverpool and from there with a general cargo to Portland, Oregon. For 23 years she traded as a bulk cargo carrier under the Red Ensign via Cape of Good Hope to Australia, returning via Cape Horn, firstly under the ownership of Archibald Sterling and Co, Glasgow, then as \"Islamount\" of Islamount Sailing Ship Co Ltd (Robert Ferguson & Co), Dundee(1898-1905), and finally with the Flint Castle Shipping Co Ltd (Robert Thomas & Co), Liverpool (1905-1918).\n\n\"Islamount\" was renamed the \"Clarastella\" in 1919 when she changed hands to the Star of Italy Italian Shipping Company () of Milan who registered her in Genoa. The new owner had her repaired and equipped with two auxiliary diesel engines (1922).\n\nIn 1922 the ship came into the hands of the Officers' Military Navy School () as \"Galatea\" to be used as a sail training ship. During this period the ship underwent a lot of changes to her hull and superstructure. A flying bridge was installed on the poop deck, a flying jibboom was attached to the spike bowsprit, and many other changes such as the installation of accommodation facilities for 300 cadets.\n\nIn April 1931 she became part of the Spanish Republican Navy. At the time of the coup of July 1936 she was at sea and reached Ferrol, a harbour that had been taken by the Nationalist faction.\n\nAfter more than 47 years of service as a sail and later on as a stationary training ship she was first laid up in A Graña, Ferrol, her Spanish port of registry. In 1981 the underwater hull was re-plated at the drydock in Ferrol. Later \"Galatea\" was completely de-rigged down to a hulk (all yards with standing and running rigging and even the masts removed) and was towed to Seville to be used as a floating museum, but left forgotten. Some sources even reported that the ship was sunk in the harbour by removing her bronze sea cock valve, but salvaged later by the Spanish Navy.\n\nIn any case, the ship was in such poor condition that it was eventually decided to scrap her. In 1990 a British naval architect (Dr. Sir John Brown, 1901-2000) discovered the ship and in 1993 she was rescued from being scrapped and subsequently bought by the Clyde Maritime Trust at auction for ₧5000,000 or £40,000. After making the hull seaworthy (all openings on deck were closed and the flying bridge spanning the poop deck during her service in Spain and the attached flying jibboom were removed) the ship was returned to Glasgow months later in tow from Seville. \n\nAfter preliminary works in dry-dock such as the removal of the unnecessary propellers, the check and repair of all the plates below the waterline and new paint, a six-year-long process of restoration began including a new cut wooden figurehead, a complete set of new rigging including the re-assembling and re-stepping of her original masts and re-crossing of the old yards (1998), as well as many other replacements (original deckhouses) and repairs. Her old masts and many of the old yards, which still existed somewhere in Spain, were given back by the Spanish when they realized that the old ship would be really renewed to her original \"Cape Horn status\", painted grey again with \"gun ports\".\n\nExcept for the hull a new ship had to be rebuilt. All the changes made to the ship by the Spanish and previous owners had to be removed, such as all the cabins built for the trainees and a lot of scrap iron ballast in the frames of the holds. First of all she was given back her original name, \"Glenlee\", by the Lord Provost of Glasgow on 6 July 1993 when the ship arrived in Glasgow for the first time since her launch in 1896 at her old and new port of registry - Glasgow Harbour. \"Glenlee\" is now recognised as part of the National Historic Fleet.\nAs a museum ship and tourist attraction, \"Glenlee\" offers educational programmes, events including exhibitions and is a venue for the West End Festival and volunteering opportunities. Since June 2011, the ship has been open at Glasgow's new Riverside Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "54095081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54095081", "title": "Goseck (monastery)", "text": "Goseck (monastery)\n\nGoseck, a monastery built on the foundations of a castle, as well as the vineyard of Dechantenberg is located in the municipality of Goseck of Saxony-Anhalt in Germany. It has been proposed by Germany for inscription in the List of World Heritage. The World Heritage nomination Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut is representative for the processes that shaped the continent during the High Middle Ages between 1000 and 1300: Christianization, the so-called “Landesausbau” and the dynamics of cultural exchange and transfer characteristic for this very period.\nGoseck and its vineyard is one of the eleven components of the cultural landscape Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut. Together with the agricultural features on the northern slopes of the Saale and the sandstone quarries used for the building of the monastery, this ensemble conveys the different forms of land use of the medieval monastery structures.\n\nGoseck Castle was part of a network of Frankish castles on the Saale River. It was founded around the year 800. The counts of Goseck were one of the noblest aristocratic families of the empire in the 10th and 11th century. Count Frederick I of Goseck had his center of power in Goseck . In 1041, Adalbert (archbishop of Hamburg-Bremen from 1043) founded a Benedictine monastery in the eastern part of the noble castle of Goseck. The minster was erected in 1046.\n\nIt is situated 9 kilometers northeast of Naumburg across the Saale Valley on the opposite bank. This monastery of the 11th century is a preserved and documented structure of the High Middle Ages. It was built to be visible from afar, offering lines of sight to most of the monuments in the nominated areas.\n\nThe crypt and choir of the monastery church display the very best of Salian architecture. Goseck is an example for the transformation of a noble family’s hereditary seat into a monastery with dynastic memorial tasks.\n\nIn the chronicles of the Benedictines of the Goseck monastery the terraced vineyard below the site is dated back to the year 1093; it is the oldest vineyard in continuous use in the nominated region. The Dechantenberg vineyard is exposed to the south. \nAround 1540, the monastery was secularized. Since 1997, Goseck is owned by the »Landesstiftung Dome und Schlösser Sachsen-Anhalt«, a state foundation endowed by the State of Saxony-Anhalt . Today, a European Centre for Music and Culture (“Europäisches Musik und Kulturzentrum”) resides in Goseck and offers a range of cultural activities. \n\n"}
{"id": "33302533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33302533", "title": "Highland Aviation", "text": "Highland Aviation\n\nHighland Aviation Training Ltd is an Authorised Training Facility at Inverness Airport.\n\nHighland Aviation provides training towards the EASA/CAA Private Pilots Licence (PPL), the EASA/CAA Light Aircraft Pilot's Licence (LAPL) and the CAA UK National Private Pilots Licence (NPPL). It also provides training for the UK CAA IMC rating (EASA IR(R)) and the night rating. \n\nIn addition to these ratings Highland Aviation also provides beach landing courses and mountain flying training.\n\nStarted in 2009 with a fleet of Piper Aircraft, Highland Aviation now has over 300 members.\n\nSituated near the Cairngorms and the Scottish Highlands, Inverness Airport is a suitable place from which to explore and learn to fly around mountains. Highland Aviation offers trial flights and training courses in mountain flying. \n\nBen Nevis, Scotland's highest mountain, extends up to only 4,409 ft allowing pilots to experience mountain flying without having to consider the effect of altitude on aircraft performance.\n\nBeach landing is illegal in most countries without proper permission. With many secluded areas with long sandy beaches, Scotland is one of the few regions in the world where beach landings are possible. Highland Aviation is the only training provider in the UK to offer a dedicated course of beach landing instruction. Most of the course is completed at Barra and Sollas.\n\nBeach landings are accomplished by using a \"soft field\" approach with power remaining on throughout the procedure. This will result, if executed correctly, in a very smooth touchdown with a high nose attitude. The nose can then be lowered onto the beach gently to avoid digging into the soft sand.\n"}
{"id": "50425965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50425965", "title": "Information Television Network", "text": "Information Television Network\n\nInformation Television Network, also known as ITV, is an American television production company based in Boca Raton, Florida, founded by Ed and Ana Cristina Lerner in 1992. The company specializes in creating health and wellness documentary-style programming and is best known for producing \"Healthy Body, Healthy Mind\" which airs on more than 200 PBS affiliates around the United States.\n\nEd Lerner, a former ABC News documentary maker, founded the company with his wife Ana Cristina Lerner in order to create informational and educational programming that reflected the burgeoning Information Age. In 1992, ITV produced its first series, \"The Cutting Edge Medical Report\", a documentary medical series which went on to a 10-year run of 200 half-hour episodes which aired on PBS. In 2004, \"The Cutting Edge Medical Report\" was revamped and became \"Healthy Body, Healthy Mind\", a similar series but with an increased focus on health and wellness. As of May 2, 2016, a total of 300 episodes of \"Healthy Body, Healthy Mind\" have aired over the course of 32 seasons on more than 200 public television stations nationwide.\n\nITV also produced other educational televisions shows focused around children and teen health issues. In 1997, ITV produced \"Hall Pass\", a syndicated teen news show, which ran for one season and featured the first television appearance of then 14-year-old Chyler Leigh as co-host. In 2002, ITV produced \"Kids HealthWorks\", a documentary series on children's health which aired on Discovery Health Channel. In 2005, ITV produced \"E-Venture Kids\", a pre-teen educational television pilot, which aired on more than 40 PBS stations and featured the first television acting appearance of then 10-year-old Ariana Grande.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45426766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45426766", "title": "International Cultural Research Center", "text": "International Cultural Research Center\n\nThe International Cultural Research Center is a Turkish think tank based in Istanbul, Turkey. It is generally known by its short name in Turkish, UKAM. Founded in 2012, UKAM conducts research and provides education in ethnic and cultural studies. It focuses on minority issues, particularly those of the Kurds and other non-Muslim groups in Turkey, in an attempt to strengthen Turkish democracy and foster ethnic and cultural diversity.\n"}
{"id": "1859051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859051", "title": "International Planetarium Society", "text": "International Planetarium Society\n\nThe International Planetarium Society, Inc. (IPS) is the global association of planetarium professionals. Its nearly 700 members come from 35 countries around the world. They represent schools, colleges and universities, museums, and public facilities of all sizes, including both fixed and portable planetariums. The primary goal of the Society is to encourage the sharing of ideas among its members through conferences, publications, and networking. By sharing their insights and creative work, IPS members become better planetarians.\n\nIPS membership is open to anyone interested in planetariums. Members include directors, teachers, technicians, writers, artists, media specialists, digital artists and producers, presenters, vendors, scientists, students, and sponsors and friends of the planetarium dome and its starry sky.\n\nMore than 20 regional and national planetarium associations from around the world are affiliated with IPS. Representatives from those affiliates, together with the elected officers, make up the Executive Council, the ruling body of the organization.\n\nIPS members receive the quarterly journal \"Planetarian\"; attend biennial conferences on even-numbered years; receive conference proceedings, the \"IPS Directory\", and special publications. Member-only benefits are available through the IPS website at ips-planetarium.org, where interested persons also can join.\n\n\"Planetarian\" is the IPS quarterly membership journal and an important member benefit. In addition to regular features and columnists, it seeks research articles on any aspect of planetarium education (that will be professionally reviewed upon request), the history of planetariums, technological developments, and much more.\n\nAlso available:\n\nElected officers are president, president-elect, past-president, secretary, and treasurer. The officers, along with representatives from the affiliate organizations, make up the Executive Council, the ruling body of the organization.\n\nThe current executive officers are:\n\nAll positions are volunteer.\n\nThe genesis of what was to become the International Planetarium Society began with a meeting of planetarium educators in 1958 at the Cranbrook Institute in Michigan. Sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF), about 100 delegates from 67 facilities attended. The conference's proceedings were published as \"Planetaria and Their Uses for Education\".\n\nAnother meeting was sponsored by the NSF in 1960, this time in Cleveland, Ohio, and resulted in \"Planetariums and Their Uses for Education, Volume 2.\" At this meeting those attending voted to initiate a national planetarium association called the American Association of Planetarium Operators, but nothing came out of the action.\n\nRegional associations of planetarium educators formed in the 1960s, resulting in the forming of GLPA, MAPS, SWAP, PPA, RMPA, and SWAP, and PAC was formed in Canada.\n\nMore than 300 planetarians gathered in 1970 at the Abrams Planetarium at Michigan State University in East Lansing at a meeting called CAPE - the Conference of Planetarium Educators. At this meeting the decision was made to organize a North American planetarium association and publish a journal. By-laws for the International Society of Planetarium Educators were approved in 1971, and the journal, \"Planetarian\", began in 1972. Paul Engle from the University of Arkansas at Little Rock Planetarium became the first president, and the first editor was Frank C. Jettner from the Department of Astronomy at the State University of New York at Albany. Among the articles in the first issue was \"Science and Communication\" by Isaac Asimov.\n\nThe planetarium field's earliest members were those who invented and modified the equipment used to project the stars onto the dome.\nAmong them are\n\nThe highest award given by IPS is the Service Award, started in 1982. This award is bestowed, from time to time, by the Society upon an individual or institution whose presence and work in the planetarium field has been, through the years, an inspiration to the profession and its members.” Since 1982 there have been 23 people awarded with the IPS Service Award.\n\nSimilarly, the IPS Technology and Innovation Award is given by the Society, from time to time, upon an individual whose technology and/or innovations in the planetarium field have been, through the years, used or replicated by other members and/or other planetariums.” The award began in 2009 and 4 persons have been recognized.\n\nDeserving IPS members also may be named a Fellow of the Society. To be named, a member must have continuous active membership in good standing in IPS for at least five years and substantial contributions in at least two of the following respects:\n\n\nPlanetarium\n\n"}
{"id": "19228038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19228038", "title": "International Research &amp; Exchanges Board", "text": "International Research &amp; Exchanges Board\n\nThe International Research & Exchanges Board (IREX) is an international, nonprofit organization that specializes in global education and development. IREX works with partners in more than 100 countries.\n\nIREX was established in 1968 by the American Council of Learned Societies, the Ford Foundation, the Social Science Research Council, and the US Department of State. IREX conducted scholarly exchanges between the US and the Soviet Union until the fall of the Iron Curtain.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union, IREX implemented projects to support democratic reforms and strengthen organizations. IREX administered programs to conduct educational exchanges, strengthen civil society in developing countries, increase internet access, and provide training and support to journalists and media organizations.\n\nIREX designs and implements programs that focus on civil society, education, gender, governance, leadership, media, technology, and youth.\n\nThese programs include the Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders, the World Smarts STEM Challenge, and Learn to Discern, which has been discussed for its approach to helping citizens recognize disinformation and fake news. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "46574848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46574848", "title": "International School for Business and Social Studies", "text": "International School for Business and Social Studies\n\nInternational School for Business and Social Studies (ISSBS, Slovene: Mednarodna fakulteta za družbene in poslovne študije) is a university located in Celje, Slovenia. The university offers both undergraduate and post-graduate courses.\n\nSome of the courses offered by the university are—\n"}
{"id": "35959614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35959614", "title": "Ishik University", "text": "Ishik University\n\nIshik University(Kurdish زانکۆی ئیشک- هەولێر or Zankoy Ishik) (IU) ISHIK UNIVERSITY is a private university established in 2008 in Erbil-Kurdistan, Iraq and owned by local and Turkish investors and educators. Ishik University is granted Certificate for the Quality Management System and is a member in the Union of Arabic Universities. The University has adopted a Quality Assurance System for ensuring high standards of quality in the teaching, learning and researching processes. \nIshik University aims at raising students with global values without ignoring the local ones and it provides a disciplined-work and studying atmosphere and effective teaching processes through providing modern technical facilities and by combining theory with practice. The University offers equal opportunities to students and staff from all nationalities and cultures. Ishik offers the students the opportunity of participating in the 'Double Diploma' and 'Exchange Programs' with other universities around the world. \n\nISHIK University was officially founded in 2008 with a ceremony in which Kurdistan Regional Government Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani, parliamentarians and bureaucrats, along with parliamentarians from Turkey were present. It was owned by Fezalar Educational Institution, which belonged to the Hizmet movement founded by Fethullah Gülen.\n - A new building dedicated to the Faculty of Education was constructed.\n - Civil Engineering Programme was granted the International Academic Accreditation Certificate without any conditions by the German Agency ZeVA which is a member in the European Association of Quality Assurance of Higher Education 'ENQA' and a member in the German Union of Accreditation 'ECA'.\n\nDr. Idris Hadi Salih\nDr. Mehmet Özdemir\nDr. Wasfi Kahwachi\n\nGoverning bodies of ISHIK University are: the Higher Board of Trustees and the University Council. In addition to these governing bodies, the Academic Evaluation and Quality Assurance Board has been established. In the lower levels, there is a 'Faculty Council' at each faculty and a 'Departmental Board' at each department.\n\n\n\nIn the following, some measures taken by Ishik University to increase the internationalization at all levels are described. \n\nThere are more than 80 international staff working in both academic and non-academic positions, being from various countries such as Turkey, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, India and USA.\nThe rules and regulations of ISHIK University allow international students from any country to join any study programme within the University. In the academic year 2015-2016, the number of international students studying at Ishik University reached 100 students.\nIn 2014, the University Council decided to implement ISO 9001:2008 standard at ISHIK University which sets out the criteria for a Quality Management System and which is implemented by over one million companies and organizations over 170 countries. For two years, the documents and the requirements were prepared and fulfilled till finally the external auditors certified Ishik University on June 4, 2015. In addition to increasing the quality within the University, helps to have access to more memorandums and cooperation with other national and international universities and organizations.\nIshik University has implemented many parts (but yet not all) of Bologna Process such as:\nInternational Relations Office (IRO) was established at ISHIK University in 2013. IRO is a unit which furthers and supports the exchange of students between the higher education institutions of other countries. So far 22 students from different departments have utilized the Exchange Programme. \nTeaching language at ISHIK University is English, except the law programme which is based on Arabic language. Also Ishik University has adopted ECTS (the European Credit Transfer System) to assess the achievement of expected learning outcomes. At Ishik the academic year is divided into two main terms: fall and spring. \n\nISHIK University has signed memorandums with 53 universities in various countries such as: Albania, Azerbaijan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Cambodia, Cyprus, Georgia, Germany, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Turkey and USA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "362192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362192", "title": "Jack Williamson", "text": "Jack Williamson\n\nJohn Stewart Williamson (April 29, 1908 – November 10, 2006), who wrote as Jack Williamson, was an American science fiction writer, often called the \"Dean of Science Fiction\" after the death of Robert Heinlein in 1988. Early in his career he sometimes used the pseudonyms Will Stewart and Nils O. Sonderlund.\n\nWilliamson was born April 29, 1908 in Bisbee, Arizona Territory, and spent his early childhood in western Texas. In search of better pastures, his family migrated to rural New Mexico in a horse-drawn covered wagon in 1915. The farming was difficult there and the family turned to ranching, which they continue to this day. He served in the U.S. Army Air Corps in World War II as a weather forecaster.\n\nAs a child Williamson enjoyed storytelling to his brother and two sisters. As a young man, he discovered the magazine \"Amazing Stories\", established in 1926 by Hugo Gernsback, after answering an ad for one free issue. He strove to write his own fiction and sold his first story to Gernsback at age 20: \"The Metal Man\" was published in the December 1928 issue of \"Amazing\". During the next year Gernsback published three more of his stories in the new pulp magazines \"Science Wonder Stories\" and \"Air Wonder Stories\", and separately published \"The Girl from Mars\" by Miles J. Breuer and Williamson as \"Science Fiction Series #1\". His work during this early period was heavily influenced by A. Merritt, author of \"The Metal Monster\" (1920) and other fantasy serials. Noting the Merritt influence, Algis Budrys described \"The Metal Man\" as \"a story full of memorable images\".\n\nEarly on, Williamson became impressed by the works of Miles J. Breuer and struck up a correspondence with him. A doctor who wrote science fiction in his spare time, Breuer had a strong talent and turned Williamson away from dreamlike fantasies towards more rigorous plotting and stronger narrative. Under Breuer's tutelage, Williamson would send outlines and drafts for review. Their first work together was the novel \"Birth of a New Republic\" in which Moon colonies were undergoing something like the American Revolution—a theme later taken up by many other SF writers, particularly in Robert A. Heinlein's \"The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress\".\n\nWracked by emotional storms and believing many of his physical ailments to be psychosomatic, Williamson underwent psychiatric evaluation in 1933 at the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, Kansas, in which he began to learn to resolve the conflict between his reason and his emotion. From this period, his stories take on a grittier, more realistic tone.\n\nBy the 1930s he was an established genre author, and the teenaged Isaac Asimov was thrilled to receive a postcard from Williamson, whom he had idolized, which congratulated him on his first published story and offered \"welcome to the ranks\". Williamson remained a regular contributor to the pulp magazines but did not achieve financial success as a writer until many years later.\n\nAn unfavorable review of one of his books, which compared his writing to that of a comic strip, brought Williamson to the attention of \"The New York Sunday News\", which needed a science fiction writer for a new comic strip. Williamson wrote the strip \"Beyond Mars\" (1952–55), loosely based on his novel \"Seetee Ship\", until the paper dropped all comics.\n\nBeginning 1954 and continuing into the 1990s, Williamson and Frederick Pohl wrote more than a dozen science fiction novels together, including the series Jim Eden, Starchild, and Cuckoo.\nWilliamson continued to write as a nonagenarian and won both the Hugo and Nebula Awards during the last decade of his life, by far the oldest writer to win those awards.\n\nIn his later years, he would also criticize attempts to write \"serious\" science fiction:\n\nWilliamson received his Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts degrees in English in the 1950s from Eastern New Mexico University (ENMU) in Portales (near the Texas panhandle), joining the faculty of that university in 1960. He remained affiliated with the school for the rest of his life. In the late 1990s, he established a permanent trust to fund the publication of \"El Portal\", ENMU's journal of literature and art. In the 1980s, he made a sizable donation of books and original manuscripts to ENMU's library, which resulted in the formation of a Special Collections department; the library now is home to the Jack Williamson Science Fiction Library, which ENMU's website describes as \"one of the top science fiction collections in the world\". In addition, Williamson hosted the \"Jack Williamson Lectureship Series\", an annual lectureship where Guests of Honor and other noted authors give lectures, read from their works, and participate in lively panel discussions on a variety of topics. The lectureship is still celebrated at ENMU each year. The Jack Williamson Liberal Arts building houses the Languages & Literature, Mathematical Sciences, History, Religion & Social Sciences, and Psychology & Political Science Departments of the university, as well as the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Dean's Office.\n\nWilliamson completed his Ph.D. in English literature at the University of Colorado in Boulder, focused on H.G. Wells' earlier works, demonstrating that Wells was not the naive optimist that many believed him to be. In the field of science, Jack Williamson coined the word terraforming in a science-fiction story published in 1942 in \"Astounding Science Fiction\".\n\nThe Science Fiction Writers of America named Williamson its second Grand Master of Science Fiction after Robert Heinlein, presented 1976.\n\nAfter retiring from teaching full-time in 1977, Williamson spent some time concentrating on his writing, but after being named Professor Emeritus by ENMU, he was coaxed back to co-teach two evening classes, \"Creative Writing\" and \"Fantasy and Science Fiction\" (he pioneered the latter at ENMU during his full-time professorship days). Williamson continued to co-teach these two classes into the 21st century. After he made a large donation of original manuscripts and rare books from his personal collection to the ENMU library, a special collections area was created to house these and it was named the \"Jack Williamson Special Collection\".\n\nIn 1994 Williamson received a World Fantasy Award for Lifetime Achievement.\n\nThe Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of Fame inducted Williamson in 1996, its inaugural class of two deceased and two living persons.\n\nThe Horror Writers Association conferred its Bram Stoker Award for Lifetime Achievement in 1998 and the World Horror Convention elected him Grand Master in 2004. \n\nIn November 2006, Williamson died at his home in Portales, New Mexico at age 98. Despite his age, he had made an appearance at the Spring 2006 \"Jack Williamson Lectureship\" and published a 320-page novel, \"The Stonehenge Gate\", in 2005.\n\nWhile attending a Great Books course, Williamson learned that Henryk Sienkiewicz had created one of his works by taking \"The Three Musketeers\" of Alexandre Dumas and pairing them with John Falstaff of William Shakespeare. Williamson took this idea into science fiction with \"The Legion of Space\".\n\nDesperate for money, he searched for a quick source of income. While most pulps of the time were slow to pay, the recently restarted \"Astounding\" was an exception. However, they did not accept novels, so Williamson submitted three short stories and a novelette. Learning that they were also accepting novels for serialization, he sent in \"The Legion of Space\", which was published in six parts. It quickly became a genre favorite, and was quickly collected into a hardcover.\n\nThe story takes place in an era when humans have colonized the Solar System but dare not go farther, as the first extra-solar expedition to Barnard's Star failed and the survivors came back as babbling, grotesque, diseased madmen. They spoke of a gigantic planet, populated by ferocious animals and the single city left of the evil \"Medusae\". The Medusae bear a vague resemblance to jellyfish, but are actually elephant-sized, four-eyed, flying beings with hundreds of tentacles. The Medusae cannot speak and communicate with one another via a microwave code.\n\nThe Falstaff character is named Giles Habibula. He was once a criminal, and can open any lock ever made. In his youth he was called Giles The Ghost. Jay Kalam (Commander of The Legion) and Hal Samdu are the names of the other two warriors. In this story, these warriors of the 30th Century battle the Medusae, the alien race from the lone planet of Barnard's Star. The Legion itself is the military and police force of the Solar System after the overthrow of an empire called the Purple Hall that once ruled all humans.\n\nIn this novel, renegade Purple pretenders ally themselves with the Medusae as a means to regain their empire. But the Medusae, who are totally unlike humans in all ways, turn on the Purples, seeking to destroy all humans and move to the Solar System, as their own world, far older than Earth, is finally spiraling back into Barnard's Star. One of the Purples, John Ulnar, supports the Legion from the start, and he is the fourth great warrior. His enemy is the Purple pretender Eric Ulnar, who sought the Medusae out in the first place, seeking to become the next Emperor of The Sun.\n\nThe Medusae conquered the Moon, set up their bases there, and went on to attempt conquest of the Solar System. The Medusae had for eons used a reddish, artificial greenhouse gas to keep their dying world from freezing. The Medusae learned from the first human expedition to their world that the gas rots human flesh, and the Medusae use it as a potent chemical weapon, attempting ecological destruction by means of projectiles fired from the Moon. Their vast spaceships also have very effective plasma weapons, very similar to those the Romulans had in a Star Trek episode called \"Balance of Terror\".\n\nThe Legion works also featured a force field called AKKA which can erase from the Universe any matter, of any size, anywhere, even a star or a planet. AKKA was a weapon of mass destruction and the secret of it was entrusted to a series of women. AKKA was used in the past to overthrow the Purple tyranny. It was also used to wipe out most of the Medusae, though they had tried to steal the secret. When they were wiped out, the Moon where they had established their base was erased out of existence. At the end of the story, John Ulnar falls in love with the keeper of AKKA, Aladoree Anthar, and marries her. Aladoree Anthar is described as a young woman with lustrous brown hair and gray eyes, beautiful as a goddess.\n\nWilliamson next wrote \"The Cometeers\" which takes place twenty years after \"The Legion of Space\" in which the same characters battle another alien race, this one of different origin.\n\nIn this second tale, they fight The Cometeers who are an alien race of energy beings controlling a \"comet\" which is really a giant force field containing a swarm of planets populated by their slaves. The slave races are of flesh and blood, but none are remotely similar to humans. The Cometeers cannot be destroyed by AKKA, as they are incorporeal from the Universe's point of view and exist for the most part in an alternate reality. The ruling Cometeers feed on their slaves and literally absorb their souls, leaving disgusting, dying hulks in their wake. It is said that they do so, as they were once fleshly entities themselves of various species. Hence, the ruling Cometeers keep other intelligent beings as slaves and \"cattle\". They fear AKKA, though, as it can erase all their possessions.\n\nThey are defeated by the skills of Giles Habibula. Giles broke into a secret chamber guarded by complex locks and force fields that the incorporeal Cometeers could not penetrate. In it the ruler of the Cometeers had kept its own weapon of mass destruction, one that would cause the Cometeers to disintegrate. The ruling Cometeer kept this weapon to enforce its rule over the others of its kind. Once the Cometeers were destroyed, their slaves were ordered by the Legion to take the comet and leave the Solar System, and never return.\n\nAnother novel, \"One Against the Legion\", tells of a Purple pretender who sets up a robotic base on a world over seventy light years from Earth, and tries to conquer the Solar System via matter transporter technology he has stolen. In this story robots are outlawed, as they are in \"Dune\". The story also features Jay Kalam, lobbying to allow the New Cometeers to leave the Solar System in peace, as many people were demanding that AKKA be used to obliterate the departing swarm of planets once and for all.\n\nIn 1983, Williamson published a final Legion novel, \"The Queen of the Legion\". Giles Habibula reappears in this final novel, which is set after the disbanding of the Legion.\n\n\n\nAn editor suggested that Williamson combine the ideas of contraterrene matter (antimatter) and asteroid mining, which inspired the Seetee (C-T) series of short stories written as Will Stewart.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25591146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25591146", "title": "Konrad Wachsmann", "text": "Konrad Wachsmann\n\nKonrad Wachsmann (May 16, 1901 in Frankfurt an der Oder, Germany – November 25, 1980 in Los Angeles, California) was a German modernist architect. He is notable for his contribution to the mass production of building components.\n\nOriginally apprenticed as a cabinetmaker, Wachsmann studied at the arts-and-crafts schools of Berlin and Dresden and at the Berlin Academy of Arts (under the Expressionist architect Hans Poelzig). During the late 1920s he was chief architect for a manufacturer of timber buildings. He designed a summer house for Albert Einstein, one of his lifelong friends, in Caputh, Brandenburg. He received the Prix de Rome from the German Academy in Rome in 1932.\n\nIn 1938 he emigrated to Paris and in 1941 to the United States, where he began a collaboration with Walter Gropius and developed the \"Packaged House System\", a design for a house which could be constructed in less than nine hours. Before the end of the Second World War he also developed a mobile aircraft hangar for the Atlas Aircraft Corporation. He would later design aircraft hangars for the U.S. Air Force in the 1960s.\n\nIn 1943 he assisted the war effort by helping the US air-force construct the German Village (Dugway proving ground), a simulation of German working class dwellings to be used to perfect fire-bombing techniques on German residential areas.\n\nWachsmann taught at the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago from 1949 to 1964 and at the USC School of Architecture and the University of Southern California in Los Angeles from 1964 to 1974. He was the first recipient of the Neutra Medal for Professional Excellence in 1980.\n\nHe is buried in his native Frankfurt an der Oder.\n\n"}
{"id": "24827889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24827889", "title": "List of education articles by country", "text": "List of education articles by country\n\nThis is a list of articles on education organized by country:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51745157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51745157", "title": "Magnifi-Science Exhibition", "text": "Magnifi-Science Exhibition\n\nThe Dawood Foundation Magnifi-Science Exhibition is a yearly science exhibition that aims to promote the culture of science and informal learning through exhibits, experiments and expositions. The yearly science exhibition takes place in Karachi, Pakistan. Around 20,000 student from 55 schools participated on the first day. Chief Minister Murad Ali Shah and Education Minister Jam Mehtab Dahar also attended the exhibition. Some scientific research groups participated in this exhibition. The main focus of the exhibition is to encourage young children to get involved with scientific studies and activities.\n"}
{"id": "217701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217701", "title": "Matura", "text": "Matura\n\nMatura or its translated terms (\"Mature\", \"Matur\", \"Maturita\", \"Maturità\", \"Maturität\", \"Maturité\", \"Mатура\") is a Latin name for the secondary school exit exam or \"maturity diploma\" in various countries, including Albania, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, Kosovo, Liechtenstein, Macedonia, Montenegro, Poland, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland and Ukraine.\n\nIt is taken by young adults (usually aged from 17 to 20) at the end of their secondary education, and generally must be passed in order to apply to a university or other institutions of higher education. \"Matura\" is a matriculation examination and can be compared to A-Level exams or \"Abitur\".\n\nThe official name is \"Matura Shtetërore\" (State Matura) which was introduced in 2006 by the Ministry of Education and Science replacing the school based \"Provimet e Pjekurisë\" (Maturity Examination). The \"Matura\" is the obligatory exam after finishing the \"gjimnaz\" (secondary school) to have one's education formally recognized and to become eligible to enroll in universities. Vocational schools are part of the \"Matura\" with a somehow different exam structure.The Matura is a centralized affair, conducted by the AVA (Central Evaluation Agency) which is in charge of selecting tasks, appointing national examiners, grading the sheets; the MoES (Ministry of Education and Sports) does the general administration and logistics of the nationwide exams. A second Agency (APRIAL) modeled after the UK University & Colleges Admissions Service and the German Zentralstelle für die Vergabe von Studienplätzen is in charge for the admission to all Albanian (public so far) universities the applicants have applied for.\n\nThe two compulsory subjects to complete secondary education are Albanian language and literature and mathematics. For being admitted in a university students must take two additional exams which they choose themselves out of a list of eight subjects. The \"Matura\" exams take place in three separate days usually in the June/July period. The two first days are for each of the compulsory subjects; the third day is for the two additional exams. The basic marks range from 4 to 10; for university admissions though a more complex system called MeP (\"Meritë-Preference\") is used. The State \"Matura\" and the MeP replaced an admission system conducted individually by each faculty/university which was seen as abusive.\n\nThe official term for \"Matura\" in Austria is \"Reifeprüfung\". The document received after the successful completion of the written and oral exams is called Maturazeugnis.\n\nIn the Gymnasium (AHS), which, as opposed to vocational schools, focuses on general education, the \"Matura\" consists of 3–4 written exams (referred to as \"Klausurarbeiten\", four to five hours each) to be taken on consecutive mornings (usually in May) and three to four oral exams to be taken on the same half-day about a month later (usually in June). All examinations are held at the school which the candidate last attended. Candidates have the option to write a scholarly paper (called \"Fachbereichsarbeit\") to be submitted at the beginning of the February preceding the final exams, which, if accepted, reduces the number of written exams by one, as the Fachbereichsarbeit is seen as an equivalent to a subject. This paper also needs to be defended in the corresponding oral exam.\n\nThe grading system is the one universally used in Austrian schools: \"1\" (\"sehr gut\") is excellent; \"2\" (\"gut\") is good; \"3\" (\"befriedigend\") is satisfactory; \"4\" (\"genügend\") is passed and \"5\" (\"nicht genügend\") means that the candidate has failed. In addition, a candidate's \"Maturazeugnis\" contains a formalized overall assessment: \"\"mit ausgezeichnetem Erfolg bestanden\" (pass with distinction: an average of 1.5 or better, no grade above 3), \"mit gutem Erfolg bestanden\" (pass with merit: an average of 2.0 or better, no grade above 3), \"bestanden\" (pass: no grade above 4); and '\"nicht bestanden\"\" (fail: at least one grade 5). Candidates who have failed may re-take their exams in September/October or February/March of the following school year.\n\nCompulsory subjects for the written finals are always German and Mathematics, as well as a foreign language (usually English, French, Spanish, Italian, Latin or sometimes Ancient Greek). Schools with a focus on science may require their students to take written finals in Biology or Physics.\n\nThe Austrian \"Matura\" used to be a decentralized affair, however since 2014 tests in the subjects:German and Mathematics, as well as a foreign language, are now centralized and held at the same day throughout Austria. There is only one external examiner: Candidates are set tasks both for their written and oral finals by their own (former) teachers. Formally, however, there is an examination board consisting of a candidate's teachers/examiners, the headmaster/headmistress and one external \"Vorsitzende(r)\" (head), usually a high-ranking school official or the head of another school. Oral exams are held publicly, but attendance by anyone other than a candidate's former schoolmates is not encouraged, and indeed rare.\n\nIt is possible for Austrians of all age groups to take the Matura. Adults from their twenties on are usually tutored at private institutions of adult education before taking their final tests, held separately before a regional examination board.\n\nIn 2015, the old Matura system was replaced by a new concept called \"Zentralmatura\" (centralized Matura). Graduation exams are now put together by \"bifie\" (an institution for research in education) and every graduation exam in Austria is now held on the same day. However, the teachers still correct all the exams themselves using an answer sheet that is included in the exam packages.\n\nStudents can still choose either four or three written exams (maths, German and one foreign language are compulsory; one additional language can also be chosen). When students choose three written exams, they will have to do another three oral exams. When choosing four written exams, only two additional oral exams are necessary.\n\nWhat is also new is that every student now has to write a graduation paper called \"VWA\" (\"Vorwissenschaftliche Arbeit\" or, literally translated, \"Pre-scientific paper\"). They can choose any topic they want, usually one year before graduating. When they have finished writing it (it should usually be 30.000 to 40.000 characters long), they have to present it to teachers and to the head (\"Vorsitzende(r)\"). The \"VWA\" is another grade in the \"Maturazeugnis\".\n\nIn Bulgarian the matura is formally called \"държавен зрелостен изпит\" (Romanization: \"dǎrzhaven zrelosten izpit\", State Maturity Exam) or ДЗИ (DZI), but usually it is called simply \"матура\". There is only one compulsory subject – \"Bulgarian Language and Literature\", but students are required to select an additional subject of their choice; they can also request a third subject. Each exam consists of a single written test. The second subject must be chosen between:\n\nIn 2008, according to the statistics on the web site of the Bulgarian Ministry of Education, 76013 students have registered for the matura exams. Of them only 1748 students registered for a third, voluntary subject. Only 845 of them passed the third examination successfully. Because of the exam's challenging nature, students who request a third subject have a significant advantage in the university admissions process.\n\nNationwide leaving exams (\"državna matura\") were introduced for gymnasium students in the school year 2009–2010. There are three compulsory subjects: Croatian language (or Serbian, Hungarian, Italian or Czech for minorities), Mathematics and a foreign language (English, German, Italian, Spanish or French). Classical gymnasium students are also able to choose Latin or Ancient Greek instead of or in addition to a modern foreign language. The optional subjects will be Geography, Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Computer science, History, Music, Visual arts, Ethics, Religious studies, Philosophy, Psychology, Sociology, Politics and Logics.\n\nThe compulsory subjects are also available at a basic or extended level with 1 point of the extended level exam being worth 1.6 points of the basic level exam. Points of the basic level are converted into points of the extended level by dividing them by 1.6, so a student achieving 100/100 points in the basic exam, in the end will only be given 62.5 points (100/1.6). The extended level offers the possibility of achieving 100 points but carries the risk of gaining a lower result due to the elevated difficulty level.\n\nThe examinations are conducted by the National centre for external evaluation of education.\n\nStudents receive their exams in sealed opaque silver bags. They are required to open the bags (usually done by piercing the top of sealed bags with a pen and opening them like a bag of potato chips). Inside the bag, they get the exam booklet, piece of paper for marking the answers (only answers written on this piece of paper are graded), a concept booklet, a piece of paper with stickers which contain a barcode and need to be glued on everything of the aforementioned prior to the beginning of exam, including a new bag, in which everything is put and the bag sealed up at the end of the exam, with the bags then sent to NCVVO. The answers of the exams are publicly available two days after the exam. Examinees can complain on individual questions/answers after the early results are in, about a week before the final results. This resulted in 7 questions being cancelled in 2012 Croatian Matura exam, with examinees getting all the points due to possible multiple interpretations of the source text and the indiscrimination by the examinees shown by psychometric analysis.\n\nCroatian Language exam has two parts: literature written exam and an essay. Students can choose whether to write the basic or extended level of the exam. The literature appearing in the exam changes annually; however, the list of works which can appear remains the same, and it consists of the following: Camus' The Stranger, Cesarić's Lirika, Gundulić's Dubravka, Ibsen's A Doll's House, Krleža's The Glembays, Matoš's Pjesme, Novak's Posljednji Stipančići and Sophocles' Antigone for the basic level and Camus' Stranger, Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment, Držić's Dundo Maroje, Flaubert's Madame Bovary, Goethe's The Sorrows of Young Werther, Kafka's The Metamorphosis, Krleža's The Glembays and The Return of Filip Latinovicz, Marinković's Ruke, Nehajev's Bijeg, Poe's The Black Cat, Salinger's The Catcher in the Rye, Sophocles' Antigone, Šimić's Preobraženja and Šoljan's Kratki izlet for the extended level, respectively.\n\nThe literature exam is 80 minutes long and is composed mostly of the multiple choice assignments, but also has a couple of matching questions assignments, whereas the written essay part of the exam is 160 minutes long and requires from 400 to 600 words.\n\nThe literature exam will take place in May and the essay exam will take place two days later.\n\nFurther enrollment into university programmes is conducted via Internet. Lists of students with right to enrollment are processed by the central computer for each university based on the results of the exams. The points gained in the exams are converted into points for enrollment. Each university sets its own criteria of valuing these exams depending on the area of science or art which is taught, for example, a student enrolling in a Philosophy programme will have 0% or 5% of points for enrollment extracted from his Mathematics exam, but up to 80% from Croatian so if the result of the Math test is excellent, but the Croatian test is bad, the student's chances are reduced because only 5% will be extrapolated from the excellent Math test and a large 80% percent from the slim result in Croatian, giving the student a lower sum of enrollment points. However, the same student may apply to a Mathematics programme and will be given points based on the very same exams, but a different percentage will be extrapolated, giving advantage to Mathematics. In the end the final 100% percent must be extrapolated from the exams, but the exams themselves are set by the universities. In general, the universities demand the three compulsory exams (Croatian, Math, Foreign language) to be passed (although can have 0% percent extrapolated as points for enrollment) along with one optional subject that is generally given higher attention (up to 70%). Each student has the right to attempt to enroll into a maximum of ten universities, and when chosen the preferred university (or universities) is deleted from the lists of the other 9 (or 8, etc.) thus allowing other students to move up these lists and achieve the right of enrollment in their preferred university.\n\nThe official term for Matura in the Czech Republic is \"maturita\" or \"maturitní zkouška\". In 2010 the Czech Republic introduced a system of state exams which divided the previous system into two parts. The first is the state exam which consists of two compulsory subjects: \"Czech language and literature\" and either a foreign language (mostly English, but also German, Russian, Spanish or French) or mathematics (the combination is chosen by students). The second part consists of Czech language and literature and minimum of two but usually of three school, so called \"profile\" subjects which vary between schools. Gymnázium (similar to grammar school) students usually choose from:\n\nThe state part of the exam is supervised by CERMAT (formerly \"Centrum pro reformu maturitní zkoušky\", \"Centre for Maturita Reform; now \"Centrum pro zjišťování výsledků vzdělávání\", \"Centre for Detection of Education Results\"), a state managed company. CERMAT issues final tests for the state part of the exam, documentation and practical tests, holds training for teachers who correct essays and supervise the students during the exams. The main part of the company is the tech centre, which is used for auto correcting the students exams. State exams are subject to continual improvement. Today the tests consist of four exams from which two are state organized and two school organized, in the future the state wants to add at least one more state exam and one more compulsory school exam.\n\nIn 2012 the state part of the \"maturita\" exam was split into two difficulty levels – students could choose between basic and advanced tests. This solution was found to be ineffective and was canceled the following year.\n\nThe Czech Republic also has a separate examination system called \"Národní srovnávací zkoušky\" (\"National Comparative Test\"), owned and managed by the private company Scio, s.r.o. which provides tests for all subjects. Some Czech universities recognize the results of these tests and students can be accepted based on these results, however, they still have to succeed in the \"maturita\" exam.\n\nThe examination itself is also divided between written and oral parts but not all subjects require both written and spoken input (for example math is formed by a written test only). Usually both the written and the oral part of the exam are set in late spring. The state part of the written exam is set to one day in which students in the whole country write identical tests, different tests are always issued on the day the exam takes place. The school (profile) part is always different and is based on requirements of the school which issues the test so it may be both written and spoken, but it can also be only one of the options.\n\nThe oral part of the \"maturita\" exam takes part in a classroom in which a commissioner must be present. The oral exam is divided into two 15 minute parts (except Czech language and literature where the preparation time is 20 minutes), first a student draws a number of his question and then begins 15 minutes of preparation often called \"potítko\" (\"sweat lodge\") after the first 15 minutes he is called in to the 15 minute oral exam. The commission is composed of the class teacher, commissioner and either a principal or a representative principal. The student is examined by the examiner and an assessor. The examiner and the assessor usually agree on a grade which should be assigned to the student and if not the commission takes a vote for the grade. Students can graduate with a grade better than 5 (grades are 1–5, where 1 is the best).\n\nExam duration, for both oral and written exams, as well as preparation time, can be longer for students with disabilities.\n\nIf students fail in one subject, they have the option to repeat the subject, if they fail more than one subject, then they have to repeat the complete set of exams including the written part. All students have a maximum of three attempts to succeed in this exam, if they fail to succeed they end secondary school without the \"maturita\" and are unable to apply for college or university. They still have a chance to do maturita exam on another secondary school in the future, but this mostly means that they should finish study on that another school in full length, e.g. 4 years.\n\nThe official term for Matura in Hungary is érettségi (vizsga). This happens usually after 12 or 13 years of schooling. Each candidate who passes their final exams receives a document that contains their grades and which formally enables them to go to a university.\n\nHungarian students have to take an exam of \"Hungarian literature and grammar\", \"Mathematics\", \"History\", one \"foreign language\" and one subject of the \"student's choice\" (this can be anything that they have learned before for at least 2 years).\n\nIn Hungary, the \"examination of maturity\" assesses knowledge in five grades: excellent (5), good (4), medium (3), pass (2), and fail (1). The UK GCE Advanced Level grade equivalent is: AAA or AAB (5), ABB or BBB (4), and BBC or BCC (3).\n\nIn Italy the examination is commonly called \"(Esame di) Maturità\" ('maturity exam') or just \"Esame di Stato\" ('state exam'), but the official name is \"Esame di Stato conclusivo del corso di studio di istruzione secondaria superiore\" ('Final state exam of the upper secondary cycle of studies'). This is the final exam for secondary school, which students are normally required to pass in order to be admitted to colleges and universities.\n\nIn Italy, the maturità is informally regarded as a rite of passage from adolescence to adulthood, after which secondary school graduates get ready for higher education and/or a job.\n\nExamination boards are composed of three internal teachers belonging to the student's school, three external teachers and an external president of the board. Every year the Ministry of Education decides which subjects will be assigned to external teachers; these are different depending on the type of school.\n\nThe exam is divided into written and oral sections. The written section consists of three tests. The first one is Italian and is identical nationwide: students are required to write an essay, an article on a given topic, but they can also choose to analyse and comment on a text (usually a poem). The second test changes according to the type of school the student attended, so it can be on a wide variety of different subjects, such as Pedagogy and Psychology, Mathematics, Foreign Language, Latin, and Ancient Greek. It is identical nationwide for schools of the same type. The subject is decided by the Ministry a few months before the exam: it is almost always the same for some types of school (for example Mathematics for liceo scientifico) and it is chosen among the \"written\" subjects for other schools (for example, it is chosen between Latin and Ancient Greek for liceo classico or one of the three different Foreign Languages studied, included English, in liceo linguistico). Finally, the third test is about a maximum of five selected subjects of the last year, and it is written by every single examining commission. The student doesn't know before which subjects are in the text. Starting the school year 2018-2019 the third test will be abolished leaving the first and the second written tests and the oral test. The interview section is to assess that the student has really reached a personal and intellectual maturity concerning the various subjects of his or her last school year; the examining commission is supposed to ask about every subject, but has got to make sure that the candidate is also able to discuss about a variety of themes explaining and justifying his or her opinion; also, in recent years has become customary for each student to prepare a short essay (\"tesina\") on a free topic, intended to showcase the ability to cover different sides of the topic using extensively the notions and methods learnt in school.\n\nThe scoring has been changed various times since 1969:\n\nThe score is calculated by adding up:\n\nThe students who are able to reach 100 points without needing a bonus can be awarded the \"lode\" (cum laude) praise by the examination board.\n\nIn Kosovo Testi i Maturës Shtetërore/Državni maturski ispit (the State Mature Exam) is mandatory for every high school student in order to get the high school certificate. Without passing the Matura Exam, one cannot apply to any university within Kosovo. It has different number of questions per subject, depending on the High School's profile.\n\nIt is held every year in June, and with the latest reforms, there are two tests, on two different days:\n\nThe First one has 100 questions, and has questions about general subjects;\n\nThe Second one has 100 questions, and has professional subjects questions.\n\nThe tests are held on the same day for every school, usually in the middle of June. There is also a similar test for the Primary School pupils as well, called Testi i Semi-Maturës Shtetërore/Državni malomaturski ispit (State Semi-Matura Exam) which has 100 questions, and is mandatory for every pupil who will continue to High School.\nThe Tests are provided by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, and are in Albanian, Serbian, Turkish and Bosniak, who make the ethnical groups of Kosovo.\n\nIn Macedonia the matura is obligatory for every high school student who is planning on going to college afterwards. It is called \"државна матура\" (\"state matura\") or simply \"матура\" (\"matura\"). Every student who intends to pass the matura is required to complete four exams:\n\nIn the Polish education system, the exam is officially called \"egzamin maturalny\", but it is commonly known as \"matura\". It is taken on completion of high school, in May (with additional dates in June, and retakes available in August). The exam is not compulsory, although Polish students must pass it in order to be able to apply for higher education courses in Poland and elsewhere.\n\nA major reform of the exam (originally enacted in 1999, although its introduction was delayed) came into effect as from 2005. Under the old system (popularly called \"stara matura\") candidates' performance was assessed solely by teachers from their own schools. In the new system \"(nowa matura)\" written work is assessed by independent examiners. This is considered to make the results more objective, and as a result Polish higher education institutions no longer run entrance exams (as they did under the old system), but base their admissions primarily on \"matura\" results.\n\nAs of 2015, every student taking the \"matura\" takes three compulsory exams at \"basic level\" \"(poziom podstawowy)\" in:\nas well as at least one subject at \"extended level\" \"(poziom rozszerzony)\". These include the above as well as biology, chemistry, geography, social studies, history, history of art, history of music, information technology, physics and astronomy, Latin and Ancient History, philosophy, another modern language, languages of ethnic groups in Poland (Belarusian, Lithuanian, Ukrainian), and the Kashubian language.\n\nExams in Polish language and other languages include both a written paper and an oral examination.\n\nResults are currently expressed as percentages. To pass the \"matura\" it is necessary to score at least 30% in each of the three compulsory exams. The results of the additional exams do not affect whether a student passes, but are usually a factor when applying for higher education places. Since the year 2015 the results are expressed not only as percentages, but are also accompanied by percentiles on the Matura certificate. This aims to make comparisons between Matura scores from different years fairer.\n\nThe exams are conducted by the Central Examination Board \"(Centralna Komisja Egzaminacyjna; CKE)\" , assisted by a number of Regional Examination Boards \"(Okręgowa Komisja Egzaminacyjna; OKE)\". The same bodies also conduct tests for pupils completing primary school, and examinations at the end of middle school \"(gimnazjum)\".\n\nA custom associated with the \"matura\" is the \"studniówka\", a ball organized for students and their teachers approximately one hundred days before the examinations begin. Following a popular superstition, candidates (particularly female ones) wear red underwear at the ball, and then wear the same items for the exam itself, to bring luck.\n\nIn Slovakia the matura is formally called \"Maturitná skúška\". It consists of several parts. The first \"written\" part is usually held in March. In this part every student has to undergo tests from the Slovak language and literature, foreign language (English, German, French, Russian or Spanish) and math (only if chosen by student). There are also tests from Ukrainian or Hungarian language for students of schools with these as teaching languages. These tests are prepared and electronically assessed by NÚCEM (Národný ústav certifikovaných meraní vzdelávania, eng. National Institute for Certified Educational Measurements). This part also includes writing an essay in every language student is tested in. Topics are prepared by NÚCEM, but essays are assessed by student's school. Ranges of essays are 1.5 – 3 pages (A4 format) in Slovak language and 160 – 180 words for level B1, 200 – 220 for B2 level or 260 – 320 words for C1 level of foreign language tests. There are only two compulsory subjects – \"Slovak language and literature\" and a foreign language. Gymnázium (similar to grammar school) students have to choose at least two additional subjects such as:\n\nExam from these additional subjets consists only of oral part usually held in May. One exception is Mathematics which consists of both written and oral parts. Students can also choose another foreign language as additional subject.\n\nThe students can choose a level of matura from the foreign language according to CEFR – B1 (intermediate) or B2 (upper intermediate). Students of gymnázium school have to choose at least one foreign language at level B2. Students of linguist-specialized (bilingual) gymnázium school have to pass test from the foreign language at level C1 (English level of bachelor's degree). In the past, if the student had got an additional certificate from foreign language (IELTS, TOEFL, CAE, FCE), at least at level B1, he/she did not need to pass the foreign language exam. However, this was cancelled in 2014 and now all secondary education students are required to pass the foreign language exam as a part of their matura.\n\nIn Slovenia, the \"splošna matura\" (college-prep leaving exam) is an obligatory exam after finishing \"gimnazija\" (upper secondary school) to have one's education formally recognised and to become eligible to enroll in colleges and universities. It should not be confused with the \"poklicna matura\" (vocational leaving exam), which is the final examination at vocational schools and does not lead to university studies. Since there is no entrance examination at the vast majority of Slovenian universities programmes (notable exceptions are only art and music programmes, architecture studies and sports studies), the score on this exam is the main criterion for admission (grades achieved during studies also play a small part).\n\nIt consists of three compulsory and two elective subjects. One must take Slovene (Italian or Hungarian for members of minorities), Mathematics and one foreign language (usually English, although French, German, Spanish, Russian, and Italian are provided, as well). The elective subjects can be chosen among all the other subjects, one has encountered during his schooling (Greek language, Latin language, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Geography, History or History of Art, Philosophy or Sociology or Psychology, Music or Graphic Arts, History of drama, Economics, Informatics, Biotechnology, Electrotechnics, Mechanics, Materials Science). It is possible to choose the second foreign language as one of the elective subjects.\n\nThe leaving exam is a centralised affair, conducted by the National Examination Centre, which is in charge of selecting tasks, appointing national examiners, grading the sheets and sending the scores to all Slovenian universities the applicants have applied for.\n\nGrading is somewhat complicated, as there exist three different criteria for different sets of subjects.\n\n\nThe only failing score is 1; all other scores are passes.\n\nIt is also possible to pass the exam with grade 1 in one subject, however, two conditions must be met:\n\nThus, it is possible to gain from 10 to 34 points. Students who have achieved 30 or more points are awarded leaving exam diplomas cum laude (Slovene: \"zlata matura\" 'golden leaving exam') and are usually congratulated by the president of Slovenia at a festive reception in September.\n\nStructure of particular exams:\n\nThe final score is expressed in points from 1 (failure) to 8 (the highest standard of knowledge).\nIt is possible to take this subject on a higher or basic level.\n\nThe final score is expressed in points from 1 (failure) to 5 (the highest mark on a basic level) or 8 (the highest mark on a higher level).\n\nThe nationwide leaving exam was reintroduced in Slovenia in 1994, after all upper secondary schools had been suspended in the 1980s and reopened in 1991. The exam is conducted in two terms, the first one being in spring (May/June) and the second one in autumn (September). Due to the university admittance procedure, of which the first call concludes in July, applicants passing the exam in September have usually a very limited choice of university programmes for that year.\n\nThere has been a heated debate lately whether this leaving exam should once again be completely abolished. As of January 2007, the position of the Ministry of Education remains that the \"matura\" will still be the only way of completing secondary education. The decision on whether universities should introduce entrance examinations and reduce the importance of the leaving exam to a mere pass/fail has not been made yet.\n\nIn Switzerland's education system, secondary school has several tiers oriented towards different professional tracks. The gymnasium, leading to the Matura graduation, is the highest tier, offering broad and thorough academic foundations to prepare its students for direct entry to university. Approximately 20% of youth attain the Matura every year, although this figure varies among the different cantons, which are in charge of (upper) secondary education. The gymnasial Matura is required and sufficient (except for medicine, where the number of students is restricted) for Swiss students to study at a university or a federal institute of technology irrespective of their subject choice.\n\nThe specific requirements for a Matura graduation vary slightly among the cantons. In general they involve two parts: The grades of the last school year and standardized Matura exams at the end of 12th or 13th grade, depending on the canton. Also a scientific Matura paper of about 25 pages has to be executed. Grades attained in classes during the last school year and at the exams, as well as the Matura paper contribute equally to the final grade. With a revision in 2007, among others an appreciation of science subjects were carried out by individual graduation of biology, physics and chemistry, increasing the proportion of teaching mathematics and natural science subjects as well as the introduction of computer science as a supplementary subject.\n\n6 is the best grade, 1 is the lowest. The required average grade to attain Matura is 4. In order to pass, all grades below 4 have to be compensated by better grades in double, and no more than four grades lower than 4 are allowed.\n\nThe cantons are responsible for the organisation of the final tests. Exams include a series of oral and written tests. Tests are typically administered by a team consisting of a teacher who was involved in the student's classes and an independent expert. This cantonal Matura exam is recognised in the whole country but there is no single standardised test on a national level in contrary to what exists in France, for instance where the same test with the same questions and the same themes is passed by all students on the same day.\n\nThe gymnasial Matura subjects by federal ordinance (\"MAV/ORM\", \"SR 413.11\") are (\"Art. 9\"):\n\nThe Matura consists of:\n\nThe distribution of teaching hours among the subjects must adhere to the following scheme:\n\nMatura exams are executed on at least five of the following subjects (all written exams and optionally also oral):\n\nA \"Federal Matura\" exists on a national level, though each \"Cantonal Matura\" is also inherently approved on a federal level. The Federal Matura is organised by the State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation (SERI) twice a year in each linguistical region.\n\nAn additional exam called \"Latinum Helveticum\", also organised by the State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation, allows the student to study a field at a university that requires Latin knowledges.\n\nThe Fachmatura/Maturité de culture générale/Maturità specializzata/Maturita media spezialisada is a relatively new program (success rates were first published in 2008). The exam is taken after completion of a Fachmittelschule and it opens up certain technical college courses. The program requires successful completion of general education subjects as well as one year of additional training in one or two professional fields and writing a matura paper. The following fields may be chosen from; health, social work, science, communication and information, music/dance/theater, art and design and education.\n\nThe advanced vocational certificate (Berufsmatura/Maturité professionelle/Maturità professionale) allows access to the Fachhochschule or University of Applied Sciences and indicated both successful completion of the vocational program as well as additional advanced studies. It can be earned either during the vocation course or after course completion. Originally there were six specialties in which the certificate could be earned. Following the new vocational regulations of May 2015 there are now five orientations with two variants for each of the first three; \"Technology, Architecture and Life Sciences\", \"Economics and Services\", \"Health and Welfare\", \"Art and Design\", and \"Nature, Agriculture and Food Services\".\n\nMatura is common in Ukrainian secondary education in the Ukrainian diaspora, specifically in the United States and Canada. It is usually run by Saturday Ukrainian Education schools sponsored by the Ukrainian Congress Committee of America, which regulates and writes the various tests. Children of Ukrainian descent are tested on Saturdays during a month-long period toward the end of their junior or senior year of high school on their knowledge of Ukrainian language, geography, history, culture, and literature. Often, these tests are approved by local governments' accreditation standards as a second-language school which can, under certain circumstances, be applied to other schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44673036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44673036", "title": "Murasu Archive", "text": "Murasu Archive\n\nThe Murasu Archive is a collection of cuneiform tablets, excavated between 1888 and 1900, from the ruins of Nippur in central Babylonia. Named after the chief member of a single family, the Murasu Archive is a collection of business records that spans four generations. Assembled during the reigns of the Persian kings Artaxerxes I, Darius II, and Artaxerxes II, the Murasu Archive provides the largest and most illuminating view into the business activities and conditions of Persian-ruled Babylonia during the last hundred and fifty years of the Achaemenid kingship.\n\nIn a series of excavations directed by John Henry Haynes, the Murasu Archive was discovered six meters under a mound on the floor of a small room. The original collection comprised 330 whole tablets, 400 or more damaged tablets and fragments, and 20 small clay tags with seal impressions. After the original discovery, a portion of the tablets was shipped to Istanbul for analysis, where Hermann Vollrat Hilprecht first identified the texts as records of a late Babylonian business house called “Murasu Sons of Nippur”. Over the years, the Murasu Archive was scattered around the world, to museums and private collections in London, Istanbul, Philadelphia, Jena, and California.\n\nThe Murasu Archive comprises business records regarding legal issues, loans, rents, transactions, trips to various capital cities, and the use of agents and subordinates to manage affairs. In essence, the Murasu Archive was the business repository of the Murasu firm - a business house dealing mainly with the management of agriculture.\nThe Murasu firm would lease land and water from its owners, farm the land to produce crops, pay rents and taxes to the owners, and even sublet the leased lands to tenants, who would work the land with livestock, seeds, and equipment provided by the firm. In addition, the Murasu firm converted the produce from the lands they managed into specie—silver., which was lent on the basis of real security, or collateral.\n\nThe Murasu firm provides a greater insight into the economic strength and stability of the Persian-ruled provinces. Marc Van De Mieroop argues that, through such business practices as the Murasu firm, the Persians were able to draw upon their resources throughout their provinces and vassal states to pull together enormous armies with which to intimidate and conquer their enemies. Descriptions of the Persians by Greek writers such as Herodotus show how the armies and practices of the Persians left a very real impression on the western world and shape the classical western view of Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "3401716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3401716", "title": "Narrative evaluation", "text": "Narrative evaluation\n\nIn education, narrative evaluation is a form of performance measurement and feedback which can be used as an alternative or supplement to grading. Narrative evaluations generally consist of several paragraphs of written text about a student's individual performance and course work. The style and form of narrative evaluations vary significantly among the educational institutions using them, and they are sometimes combined with other performance metrics, including letter and number grades and pass/fail designations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21141193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21141193", "title": "National Security Education Program", "text": "National Security Education Program\n\nThe National Security Education Program (NSEP) is a U.S. federal government initiative to enhance the national security of the U.S. by increasing the national capacity to understand and interact effectively with foreign cultures and languages. NSEP oversees nine critical initiatives designed to attract, recruit, and train a future national security workforce. Some funding comes in exchange for a commitment to U.S. federal government service upon completion of academic study. NSEP is aimed at building a wider pool of Americans with foreign language and international skills by involving participants in \"innovative, intensive, and long-term programs designed to provide meaningful opportunities to gain significant competencies in these languages and cultures.\" \n\nNSEP was established by the National Security Education Act. Oversight for NSEP is provided by the National Security Education Board (NSEB), which meets \"to review and make recommendations based on program mission and objectives.\" The NSEB consists of a 13-member board including representatives from seven Cabinet-level departments. Six non-federal members, appointed by the President also serve on the NSEB. The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (OSD/P&R) provides policy oversight to NSEP. \n\nOn February 6, 2012, the Defense Language Office and the National Security Education Program were merged to form the Defense Language and National Security Education Office.\n\nNSEP has nine initiatives:\n\n2. ^http://www.nsep.gov/\n\n"}
{"id": "23629663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23629663", "title": "Porter and Chester Institute", "text": "Porter and Chester Institute\n\nPorter and Chester Institute is a for-profit technical school with nine locations throughout Connecticut and Massachusetts in the United States. Porter and Chester Institute features 10 different career programs.\n\nPorter and Chester Institute has nine campuses located throughout Connecticut and Massachusetts. The main campus is located in Stratford, Connecticut. The other Connecticut campuses are in Watertown, Rocky Hill, and an affiliate campus in Branford. In Massachusetts, there are locations in Canton, Chicopee, Worcester.\n\nThe history of Porter and Chester Institute began in 1946 with the founding of the Porter School of Engineering Design in Hartford, Connecticut.\n\nIn 1973, the Porter School of Engineering Design and the Chester Institute for Technical Education of Stratford, Connecticut, merged into one institution. Subsequently, the name Porter and Chester Institute was adopted, and the curricula contents and operational policies of the two institutions were standardized. At the same time, the Porter School, which was located in Rocky Hill, Connecticut, became the Rocky Hill Campus of Porter and Chester Institute.\n\nThe Waterbury Campus was established in 1977. In 1979, the Enfield Campus was added. In 1986 the Waterbury Campus was expanded and moved to Watertown, and in 1987 the Rocky Hill Branch was also moved to larger quarters in Wethersfield.\n\nThe Chicopee, Massachusetts Campus was established in 1993.\n\nIn August 1995, the stockholders of Porter and Chester Institute purchased the Connecticut School of Electronics (CSE). CSE had been established in 1947 in New Haven, CT. In 1996, CSE moved from New Haven to larger quarters in Branford, Connecticut.\n\nIn 2002, a new campus was established in Westborough, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 2010 PCI further expanded its presence in Eastern Massachusetts by opening branches in Canton and Woburn. The Woburn campus will be the largest campus for Porter and Chester and will allow PCI to better serve the metropolitan areas of Boston, Quincy and Brocton as well as surrounding towns.\n\nIn 2009, Porter and Chester Institute was awarded with the School of Excellence Award from ACCSCT.\n\nIn October 2014, the Westborough locations closed and moved to Worcester, Massachusetts. \n\nJames Bologa is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Porter and Chester Institute.\n\nThe following programs take 12 months in the day, but 18 in the evening. \n\nThe following take 9 months in the day, but between 12 and 15 in the evening. \n\nPorter and Chester Institute is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges (ACCSC), the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES).\nThe Chicopee Campus Medical Assisting Program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs upon the recommendation of the Curriculum Review Board of the American Association of Medical Assistants Endowment (CRB-AAMAE)\n\nPorter and Chester Institute is approved by the Connecticut, and Massachusetts, Commissioner of Higher Education. Porter and Chester Institute is certified by the State of Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles as an official I/M240 Training Facility.\n"}
{"id": "5670502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5670502", "title": "Queers Undermining Israeli Terrorism", "text": "Queers Undermining Israeli Terrorism\n\nQueers Undermining Israeli Terrorism (QUIT!) is a gay San Francisco Bay Area political action group supporting \"boycott, divestment & sanctions against Israel\"; and opposing \"Pinkwashing\" of the \"ethnic cleansing of the Palestinian people\". It was founded in early 2001 by a member of LAGAI-Queer Insurrection and individuals formerly associated with DAGGER (Dykes & Gay Guys Emergency Response), which was active during the first Gulf War.\n\nThe group \"supports divestment, the right of return for all Palestinians, immediate Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian territories and describes Zionism as racism.\"\n\nThe group opposes \"Pinkwashing\" (promoting through an appeal to \"queer-friendliness\") of the Israeli government and its allegedly anti-Palestinian policies.\n\n\nIn December, 2004, one of QUIT!'s founders, Kate Bender-Raphael was arrested by Israeli authorities while \"filming a clash between Israeli soldiers and activists protesting the building of the separation barrier in the West Bank village of Bil'in.\" Bender-Raphael had been arrested in Israel and deported in 2003 \"also for filming the Israel Defense Forces' reaction to a demonstration against the barrier.\" As a result of her arrest, QUIT! staged a protest outside the Israeli Consulate in San Francisco.\n\nIn late 2004, in response to Interpride's decision that the Israeli group Jerusalem Open House would host the second World Pride parade in 2005, QUIT! launched a Boycott World Pride campaign. The boycott picked up steam after the event was postponed until August 2006 because of the pullout of the Israeli settlements from the Gaza Strip. QUIT and many other individuals and organizations contended that it was inappropriate to hold an event titled \"Love Without Borders\" in a city bisected by a 30-foot concrete wall. The International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission (IGLHRC) decided, in March 2006, not to participate in World Pride Jerusalem, stating, \"IGLHRC recognizes that many LGBTI people in the region who wish to attend World Pride 2006, named 'Love without Borders,' will be unable to do so due to travel restrictions and conditions that limit mobility and participation.\"\n\nIn March, 2007, QUIT! and the South West Asian, North African Bay Area Queers (SWANABAQ) initiated a campaign to pressure Frameline, the organizer of the San Francisco International LGBT Film Festival, to cut its ties with the Israeli government. In an open letter signed by more than 100 artists and writers, including Sophie Fiennes, Elia Suleiman, Ken Loach, Haim Bresheeth, Jenny Morgan, John Berger, Arundhati Roy, Ahdaf Soueif, Eduardo Galeano, Brian Eno, and Leon Rosselson, Frameline was asked \"to honor calls for an international boycott of Israeli political and cultural institutions, by discontinuing Israeli consulate sponsorship of the LGBT film festival and not cosponsoring events with the Israeli consulate.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6336076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6336076", "title": "Royal College of Chemistry", "text": "Royal College of Chemistry\n\nThe Royal College of Chemistry (RCC) was a college originally based on Oxford Street in central London, England. It operated between 1845 and 1872.\n\nThe College was set up to teach practical chemistry. Many politicians donated funds to establish the college, including Benjamin Disraeli, William Gladstone and Robert Peel. It was also supported by Prince Albert.\n\nThe first director was August Wilhelm von Hofmann. Frederick Augustus Abel studied under von Hofmann. Sir William Crookes, Edward Divers and J. A. R. Newlands also attended the college.\n\nThe young William Henry Perkin studied and worked at the college under von Hofmann, but resigned his position after discovering the first synthetic dye, mauveine, in 1856. Perkin's discovery was prompted by his work with von Hofmann on the substance aniline, derived from coal tar, and it was this breakthrough which sparked the synthetic dye industry, a boom which some historians have labelled 'the second chemical revolution'.\n\nThe college was merged into the Royal School of Mines in 1853. It was the first constituent college of Imperial College London and eventually became the Imperial College Chemistry Department.\n\n\nsubscribe to HyperQuick Gaming"}
{"id": "47927330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47927330", "title": "Sibley County ICTV System", "text": "Sibley County ICTV System\n\nThe Sibley County Interactive Cable TV (ICTV) System was a groundbreaking form of distance education using interactive television that drew national media attention.\n\nLaunched in 1985, the ICTV system connected classrooms in four Sibley County, Minnesota schools together by using four unused channels on Triax Cablevision's cable TV lines that already served the communities (installed a few years prior). The system was designed to address the problem of falling enrollments that the four schools were facing (and thus falling funding for teachers), by allowing the schools to share teachers among each other.\n\n\nThe system allowed a teacher to teach a class to students at any or all of the schools. The teacher could physically be located at any of the schools. The teacher and students at all of the schools could see and to talk to each other, although assignments and tests had to be sent by courier (later fax) between the schools. Additionally, in the evenings professors from nearby Mankato State University traveled to a school of their choice and taught introductory classes on the system, allowing high school students at the schools to receive post-secondary education (i.e. college) credits at no cost and without having to travel to the university.\n\nAt each school, the system consisted of a classroom wired with the following equipment:\n\n\nAt the teacher's school, the teacher typically alternated between selecting the podium's camera and the teacher's camera. At the remote student's schools, the student's camera was typically always selected.\n\nTo transport the TV signals generated by each school to all of the other schools, they were broadcast over the local cable television system that already connected the four communities, on four unused channels:\n\n\nBecause the cable TV system was used, people at home in the communities could also watch classes being taught, although they could not interact with them. Taking advantage of this \"feature\", each school also connected a computer running a slide-show program to the system that broadcast school-related news and information (announcements, calendars, lunch menus, etc.) to their respective communities when classes weren't being taught. The computer was select-able from the push-button switchbox.\n\nThe system was shut down around 1990. By this time, Gibbon, Fairfax, and Winthrop had consolidated to form GFW Schools, and Arlington and Gaylord had consolidated to form Sibley East Schools.\n\nThe larger class sizes as a result of these consolidations meant the system was no longer necessary.\n"}
{"id": "49921448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49921448", "title": "Social probation", "text": "Social probation\n\nSocial probation is a restriction placed upon a student or group who fails to demonstrate responsible behavior and who has chosen to violate the school's code of conduct, school board policy or the law.\n"}
{"id": "39218390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39218390", "title": "Start School Later movement", "text": "Start School Later movement\n\nThe movement to start school later consists of efforts by health care professionals, sleep scientists, educators, economists, legislators, parents, students, and other concerned citizens to restore a later start to the school day. Based on a growing body of evidence that starting middle and high schools too early in the morning is unhealthy, counterproductive, and incompatible with adolescent sleep needs and patterns. During the second half of the 20th century, many public schools in the United States began shifting instructional time earlier than the more conventional bell time, thought to be about 9 a.m. Today it is common for American schools to begin the instructional day in the 7 a.m. hour and end about seven hours later, around 2 p.m. Most sleep research suggests that morning classes should begin no earlier than 8:30 a.m. for middle and high school students.\n\nAdvocates of a return to later school start times argue that sleep and school hours should be viewed as a public health issue, citing evidence linking early school start times to widespread sleep deprivation among teenagers as well as a wide array of acute and chronic physical, psychological, and educational problems. Not only do students consistently get significantly more sleep on school nights when their schools move to later start times, but later school hours have been consistently linked with improved school performance, reduced impulsiveness, and greater motivation, as well as with lower rates of depression, tardiness, truancy, and morning automobile accidents. Recent (2011) studies suggest that early school start times disproportionately hurt economically disadvantaged students and may even negatively impact future earning potential of students, offsetting any financial savings to the school system attributed to earlier hours.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the University of Minnesota's landmark School Start Time Study tracked high school students from two Minneapolis-area districts – Edina, a suburban district that changed its opening hour from 7:20 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and the Minneapolis Public Schools, which changed their opening from 7:20 a.m. to 8:40 a.m. Many positive benefits to students were found, including:\n\nA longitudinal follow-up study of the Minneapolis Public Schools after five years revealed that these and other positive benefits had persisted. In 2014, a three-year project using data from more than 9,000 students attending eight high schools in three states, found that when schools switched to a start time of 8:30 a.m. or later, attendance, standardized test scores and academic performance improved, and tardiness, substance abuse, symptoms of depression, consumption of caffeinated drinks, and the rate of traffic accidents involving teen drivers decreased.\n\nSince the 1990s over 250 individual schools or districts in 45 states have delayed their start times, and scores of others are considering a change at any given time. Despite sporadic reform efforts on the part of educators, public health officials, legislators, and grassroots groups, however, most American middle and high schools still require students to begin instruction prior to 8:30 a.m. Failure of efforts to delay start times over the years has primarily been due to pushback from community members who fear that a shift to later school hours will be prohibitively expensive and/or disrupt after-school sports and other extracurricular schedules, student jobs, daycare arrangement, teacher training, or time for homework\n\nProponents of a return to later school hours cite abundant evidence that starting middle and high school before about 8:30 or 9 a.m. is incompatible with the biological clocks of teenagers and young adults. In 1993, a team led by Mary Carskadon, PhD, of Brown University showed that changes in circadian biology during puberty drive a \"sleep-phase delay,\" a shift in the sleep-wake patterns of adolescents that leads them to fall asleep and wake up later than younger and older people. Subsequent studies have confirmed these findings, explored the impact of school start times on the sleep needs and patterns of adolescents., and demonstrated a \"phase shift\" in the release of melatonin at puberty, which appears to be involved in shifting the sleep-wake cycle several hours later during the adolescent years. This same shift to a delayed phase in the release of melatonin during puberty has also been seen in other mammals.\n\nThe shifted circadian rhythms associated with puberty make it difficult, if not impossible, for many teenagers—who may have to rise at 5 or 6 a.m. to get ready and commute to school in time for 7 a.m. school bells—to get sufficient sleep on school nights. Even discounting for the distractions of homework and extracurricular demands and electronics, most adolescents find it difficult to fall asleep before about 11 p.m. or rise before about 8 a.m. In addition, they need to sleep in until 8 a.m. or so to get the 9 or more hours of sleep that most sleep research suggests they need. As a result, many teenagers arrive at school sleep-deprived. The most recent data from the Youth Risk Behavior Survey show that 70% of American high school students are sleep-deprived and about 40% get six or fewer hours of sleep per night.\n\nDue to the fact that almost 70% of teens don't get enough sleep, there are increases in stimulant abuse, weight gain, risk of diabetes, immune disorders, mood swings, depression, and suicidal ideation, as well as reduced impulse control. In addition, early school start times have been associated with drowsy driving in new teen drivers and higher car crash rates. Schools ending early in the afternoon may also increase the risk of engaging in unhealthy, risky behaviors among sleep-deprived adolescents. Sending children to school before sunrise also means they must wait or walk in dark, with low visibility.\n\nSleep deprivation can result in low motivation, difficulty concentrating, restlessness, slowed reaction times, lack of energy, frequent errors, forgetfulness, and impaired decision-making skills. Studies, many spearheaded by Kyla Wahlstrom and her research team at University of Minnesota's Center for Applied Research and Educational Improvement (CAREI), have tied these effects to early school start times, which, in turn, have repeatedly been linked to increased rates of tardiness, truancy, absenteeism, and dropping out. In 2012 a study using data from Wake County, North Carolina, showed that delaying middle school start times by one hour, from roughly 7:30 to 8:30, increases standardized test scores by at least two percentile points in math and one percentile point in reading. The effect was largest for students with below-average test scores, suggesting that later start times would narrow gaps in student achievement.\n\nThe impact of later start times on school performance—including reduced truancy, absenteeism, and increased overall academic achievement—is approximately double in economically disadvantaged students. This discrepancy may be explained, at least in part, by the fact that privileged students have opportunities to attend private schools (most of which start instruction after 8 a.m.) and/or save time by driving or being driven to school.\n\nA 2017 report by the RAND Corporation concluded that delaying school start times to 8:30 a.m. is a cost-effective, population-level strategy that would significantly impact public health and the U.S. economy, with benefits quickly outweighing any immediate costs. After just two years, the study conservatively projected a gain of $8.6 billion to the U.S. economy. After a decade, this gain would increase to $83 billion, and after 15 years to $140 billion, amounting to an average annual gain to the U.S. economy of $9.3 billion. An earlier Hamilton Project Report published by the Brookings Institution concluded that starting class later can be an immediate and inexpensive way to boost health, safety, and achievement for all students. The authors, economists Brian A. Jacob and Jonah E. Rockoff, predicted that starting high schools one hour later, at about 9 a.m., would result in roughly $17,500 in increased future earnings per student in present value—a benefit:cost ratio of at least 9:1 even when changing schedules requires upfront investment to alter bus schedules and/or accommodate later after-school activities.\n\nAs early as 1993, sleep researchers and healthcare leaders began encouraging school administrators to move middle and high school hours to 8:30 a.m. or later.\nToday numerous health, educational, and civic leaders are calling for a return to later, healthier school start times, including former U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan, the National Sleep Foundation, and the National Institutes of Health. In 2014 the American Academy of Pediatrics issued a policy statement recommending that middle and high schools start no earlier than 8:30 a.m. as an effective means of addressing the serious public health issue of insufficient sleep in adolescents, a position echoed in 2015 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and in 2016 by the American Medical Association, and supported by the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, the American Thoracic Society, the National Association of School Nurses, and the Society of Pediatric Nurses. The National Education Association issued a resolution supporting school schedules that follow research-based recommendations regarding the sleep patterns of age groups. Several state medical societies have issued position statements or resolutions supporting later school start times, as have both the Washington and Virginia state Parent Teachers Associations (PTAs) and the Seattle Educators Association A move to a later school start time is also consistent with the Healthy People 2020 Objective to increase the proportion of students in grades 9 to 12 who get sufficient sleep.\n\nCalifornia Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren has repeatedly introduced versions of a \"ZZZ's to A's\" Bill and Resolution to the U.S. Congress since 1998, all proposing limits on the hours at which American high schools can begin required instruction. All thus far have failed.\n\nNumerous bills related to sleep and school start times have been introduced in state legislatures since the 1990s, including the California, Florida, Maryland, Virginia, Tennessee, New Jersey, Maine, Rhode Island, Utah, Washington, Nevada, and Massachusetts legislatures. In 2014 Maryland was the first state to pass school start time legislation via HB 883, sponsored by Delegate Aruna Miller (D, Montgomery County) and passed unanimously by the Maryland General Assembly. This legislation required the state Department of Health and Mental Hygiene to conduct a study on student sleep needs, explore ways school systems can shift hours to accommodate them, and develop recommendations about whether state public schools should adopt a policy of start times at 8 a.m. or later, resulting in the \"Report on Safe and Healthy School Hours\". Two years later the Maryland state legislature passed the Orange Ribbon Bill for Healthy School Hours, also sponsored by Delegate Miller, a voluntary, no-cost, incentive program recognizing districts for implementing evidence-based school hours. In 2015 New Jersey passed a law (S2484) requiring the state Department of Education to study the options and benefits of starting school later at middle and high schools and recommend whether the state should establish a pilot program to test later school start times in select middle schools and high schools throughout the state. A 2017 California bill introduced by Senator Anthony J. Portantino that would have prevented state middle and high schools from requiring attendance before 8:30 a.m. failed to gain legislative support but will be reconsidered in 2018.\n\nThe Fairfax County (Virginia) Public Schools (FCPS) Board of Education passed a resolution in April 2012 affirming their goal to find ways to start county high schools after 8 a.m. to allow students to get sufficient sleep, a resolution supported by the \"Washington Post's\" editorial board. In June 2013 FCPS contracted a team from the Children’s National Medical Center's Division of Sleep Medicine to partner with Fairfax County students, parents, educators, administrators, and other community stakeholders to develop a plan to accomplish this task. This effort led the Washington Post's editorial board to endorse later school start times as a \"smarter way to start high schoolers' days\" in August 2013. This editorial was tweeted by U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan along with the comment that starting high school later and letting teens sleep more was a \"common sense\" way \"to improve student achievement that too few have implemented.\" As new school superintendent Karen Garza laid out her vision for the district in September 2013, she vowed to push for later school start times. On October 1, 2013, Montgomery County, MD School Superintendent Joshua Starr recommended that high school start times be moved 50 minutes to 8:15 a.m., with a proposed start in the 2015–16 school year.\n\nIn England, Oxford's Sleep and Circadian Neurosciences Institute (SCNi) in 2015 began a study involving sleep education for teenagers in England and Wales. Professors Russell Foster and Colin Espie with their project \"Teensleep\" will assess whether ten half-hour lessons in year 10 will improve academic performance and well-being. Taught by specially trained teachers, the lessons introduce scientific theory on the importance of sleep and the effects of sleep deprivation as well as techniques for stress management. The study has been redesigned since it was originally announced; it was previously considerably more ambitious, including a later start time at about twenty-five schools, sleep education in others, both in some schools and neither in others. Students will be evaluated before and after the sleep education periods.\n\nCommunity groups have sporadically arisen in various school communities since the 1990s, sometimes prompting studies and reform proposals but often dying out as concerned, active families grew out of the system. Probably the most visible and longest lasting of the grassroots advocacy groups is SLEEP in Fairfax County, Virginia, which was formed in 2004 to increase awareness of teen sleep needs and to change middle and high school start times in the Fairfax County Public Schools (FCPS) to later in the morning. More recently, social media tools have allowed once isolated advocates to unite efforts and share resources. In fall 2011, an online petition effort galvanized a national non-profit organization, Start School Later, a coalition of health professionals, sleep scientists, educators, parents, students, and other concerned citizens dedicated to increasing public awareness about the relationship between sleep and school hours and to ensuring school start times compatible with health, safety, education, and equity. Active petition drives in 2012 and 2013 among the coalition's Washington DC Metro area chapters have spurred several counties to re-open their discussions and helped spearhead a study group to reconsider the issue in the Montgomery County Public Schools. Start School Later also maintains a website with links to references and other educational materials on sleep and school start times, and in 2013 partnered with The Lloyd Society to co-sponsor an educational symposium featuring keynote speaker Judith Owens, MD, MPH, Director of Sleep Medicine at the Children's National Medical Center, whose research interests include the neurobehavioral and health consequences of sleep problems in children, pharmacologic treatment of pediatric sleep disorders, and cultural and psychosocial issues that impact sleep. Many advocates also support campaigns using materials from California attorney Dennis Nolan's website, an exhaustive and frequently updated compilation of research about adolescent sleep deprivation and its relationship to early school start times. In spring 2013 the Mayo Clinic updated its online information about teen sleep to recognize grassroots efforts to start school at later times in sync with the internal clocks of adolescents.\n\n"}
{"id": "23236755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23236755", "title": "Stuff You Should Know", "text": "Stuff You Should Know\n\nStuff You Should Know, often abbreviated as SYSK, is an award-winning podcast and video series published by the HowStuffWorks website and hosted by Josh Clark and Charles W. \"Chuck\" Bryant, both writers at HowStuffWorks. The podcast is consistently ranked in the Top 10 on iTunes. It is one of the most popular podcasts in the world, being downloaded millions of times each month.\n\nThe podcast, released every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, educates listeners on a wide variety of topics, often using popular culture as a reference giving the podcast comedic value. The podcast is available for free on the iTunes Store and consistently appears in the platform's Top 10. On January 19, 2013, a television show based on the series aired on Science Channel and ran for one season. On April 1, 2017, replays of podcasts specially selected by the hosts, known as SYSK Selects, began running on Saturdays.\n\n\"Stuff You Should Know\" is hosted by two senior editors at HowStuffWorks.com, Josh Clark and Charles Wayne \"Chuck\" Bryant. Their producer is Jeri \"Jerome\" Rowland.\n\nClark was a host of the show since the beginning, and before Bryant took over the co-hosting duties Clark was joined by several other editors. The chemistry between the two was immediately apparent, and Bryant became a permanent co-host (despite his actual knowledge on subject matter which is researched before hand) Some speculate that Bryant's assertive albeit incorrect statements are meant to be a humorous device. This has not been confirmed by either Clark or Bryant. Bryant started working at HowStuffWorks about a month after Clark. They had desks catty-cornered [sic] across from each other and would often pop up to share their research. They became good friends within a week. \n\nJosh Malcolm Clark was born July 15, 1976. He grew up in Toledo, Ohio where his nickname was Pillsbury Doughboy. He was raised Catholic and attended a Catholic school. He moved to Marietta, Georgia as a teenager. Clark's father's name is Mal, an HVAC engineer. He has a sister named Karen, and two brothers-in-law, one of whose name is also Josh.\n\nIn 2010 Clark lived with his then-girlfriend Umi (who is six months younger than him) in midtown Atlanta; he proposed on August 13, 2011 and the couple has since married. The two once rented a house in the Highlands neighborhood of Atlanta. He has four pictures of her on his desk.\n\nHe is a former smoker, drinks a lot of coffee, and is an amateur mixologist. His hero is Muhammad Yunus. His favorite books include 1491 & 1493 by Charles C. Mann which he frequently quotes and/or references in the SYSK podcast. Josh is also a fan of The Simpsons, Firefly, Dollywood, and Quentin Tarantino.\n\nHe attended Sprayberry High School and studied history and anthropology at the University of Georgia. As a youth interested in the paranormal, he wanted to study parapsychology at Duke University. Also as a child, he was an avid reader of Uncle John's Bathroom Reader, as mentioned in many podcasts, and he jokingly cites Uncle John's Bathroom Reader as the source of the majority of his knowledge. This admiration was eventually reciprocated when UJBR mentioned SYSK on their website and had one of their employees feature as a guest on SYSK's Barbie® doll podcast.\n\nAfter college he pursued a career in journalism, working as \"a cub reporter\" in Henry County, Georgia, and was the founding editor of The Washboard Weekly, an \"edgy tabloid\" in Johnson City, Tennessee. It went out of business due to a lack of advertising. His neighbors in Johnson City lived on the side of a mountain in a converted school bus with a chimney coming out of it.\n\nBefore joining How Stuff Works in 2007 he was a self described factotum who held many jobs. He had a paper route, washed dogs, and held \"jobs that involved shovels.\" Before recording his first episode in 2008, Clark had never listened to a podcast, and didn't know what one was.\n\nCharles Wayne Bryant is always introduced on the show as Charles W. \"Chuck\" Bryant, but fans often refer to him as \"Chuckers.\" Born March 15, 1971, Bryant was raised Baptist and played church league sports, although his \"constant struggle with [his] religious upbringing\" has been \"well documented over the years.\" He is part Choctaw.\n\nBryant grew up in DeKalb County, Georgia but his family lived in \"rural Mississippi since the dawn of time.\" He attended an elementary school where his father was the principal and graduated from Redan High School. His mother, Diane, was also a teacher. He has a brother named Scott who is three years older than him, a sister who is six years older, and a brother-in-law who is a Marine Corps General. His uncle, Ed Bryant, is a former Republican member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Tennessee. Bryant once appeared on the cover of \"Guideposts\" magazine.\n\nBryant attended the University of Georgia where he studied English. After college, he took classes in screenwriting at New York University's film school and then moved to Los Angeles for four years. He has also lived in New Jersey.\n\nBryant is married to Emilie Sennebogen, and in 2015 the couple adopted a daughter, Ruby Rose, who shares a birthday with Clark. As a self-described \"crazy animal person,\" he has multiple pets. He plays the guitar in an \"old man band,\" called \"El Cheapo\". Humorist John Hodgman is a \"dear friend.\"\n\nHe is the author of six screenplays, including one about a Southern Baptist church called \"Sweet, Sweet Spirit,\" but did not find success in that field. While in Los Angeles, he was a production assistant on TV commercials, a few indie movies, and music videos, which he says helped with the TV version of \"Stuff You Should Know\". He was hired at How Stuff Works after a friend got a job there, and submitted the first act of a screenplay as a writing sample.\n\nThe podcast was launched on April 17, 2008, with Bryant making his debut on May 13, 2008. Bryant became the permanent cohost on July 15, 2008. The podcast, which was named by Clark, began as an attempt to re-purpose some of the written content on HowStuffWorks.com. Clark had never listened to a podcast before he recorded his first episode in 2008. Jesse Thorn has held the name up as a model of how a podcast should be named saying \"it's like daring the listener \"not\" to listen to it.\"\n\nThe podcast has steadily grown in popularity since its introduction and has made appearances at events including South by Southwest and Comic-Con. On October 26, 2017, \"Stuff You Should Know\" released their 1000th episode. Several episodes have been recorded during live events, including two during their World Tour of Canada in September and October 2014. While in Canada they also participated in the Northwest Podcast Festival, at SXSW in 2011 and 2012, and New York Comic Con in 2012 where they recorded their discussion entitled \"Time Travel: Science Fact or Science Fiction?\"\n\nDuring the 4th of July weekend in 2011 there was a Stuff You Should Know About America marathon on Sirius XM radio. It featured previous episodes, as well as a live segment with Wyatt Cenac and Hallie Haglund of \"The Daily Show\" as well as Joe Randazzo, Joe Garden and Jill Morris of \"The Onion\". Their 420th episode was on medical marijuana, although this was reportedly a coincidence.\n\nIn 2011 the podcast added \"Bonus Videos\" to the podcast feed. These consist of humorous 60 second videos where Clark and Bryant converse about subjects they covered on previous podcasts while doing a variety of random activities (playing checkers, getting fitted for a suit, going to a doctor, driving through a car wash). As they speak, the scene changes repeatedly to something completely different, though their conversation continues uninterrupted as though nothing had happened. These clips have also aired during commercial slots on Science and appear on their YouTube channel.\n\nThere is one unaired episode on animal detectives that they hope will never be published. They have twice repeated a topic. They revisited the topic of Murphy's Law in 2011 after first doing it in 2008. As one of their first episodes, it was under 6 minutes in length. They also accidentally repeated a podcast on customs. The first time was in 2010 and the second was in 2016.\n\nThe podcast has been described as the \"heart and soul of the operation,\" and the \"well researched\" episodes cover a variety topics from the fields of \"science, history, urban legends, and pop culture, with the occasional conspiracy theory thrown in for good measure.\" Clark and Bryant have a conversation about the given topic such that, by the end, listeners have a \"basic working knowledge of that subject.\" Clark has said they are on a \"never ending quest to explain absolutely everything there is on planet earth and beyond.\"\n\nTheir \"biggest hits\" include episodes on Spam, hangovers, tipping in restaurants, cheese, Barbie, and pinball. The topics that get the greatest response from listeners include death and grieving, and episodes that received \"less enthusiastic feedback\" include shows on homelessness/addiction, Tourette's Syndrome, and transgender issues. It was the second podcast on HowStuffWorks. Episodes are normally around 45 minutes in length, although for more in-depth topics the show occasionally runs long as an hour or more. Initial episodes were much shorter in duration, often less than 10 minutes.\n\nOne of the reasons the hosts believe the show has been so successful is that they are \"definitely not experts\" in the myriad subjects they explore, but are instead \"just guys who enjoy research and [are] very curious.\" Their formula \"is part self-deprecating humour, part infectious wonder and part self-discipline to go their separate ways and do all their own research and reflection before they get to the studio.\" They often try to surprise one another with their research, and do not have a script or a time limit before they sit down to record.\n\nMost episodes end with listener mail, although there is an occasional segment known as \"Administrative Details.\" Listener mail debuted on November 25, 2008, in the episode named \"How Albert Einstein's Brain Worked\". On that episode, they called it \"Correction Time.\" The first time it was known as \"Listener Mail\" was on January 8, 2009, an episode that was inspired by a listener's email. During the Listener Mail portion of the podcast on April 11, 2013, a new jingle for the show was introduced. It was written and recorded by Rusty Matyas of Winnipeg, Manitoba in Canada, a musician and fan. Jon Biegen, another fan who covered Matyas' band, The Sheepdogs, has produced several new jingles for the show.\n\nThe \"Stuff You Should Know\" staff includes Rebecca, the web producer, Matt and Noel, the occasional guest producers, as well as Sherry and Joe. Their studio is slightly larger than a broom closet.\n\n\"Stuff You Should Know\" also has a YouTube channel. Animated shorts are released on Mondays, This Day in History videos are released on Tuesdays, and Clark's series Don't Be Dumb airs a new episode on Thursdays. In addition, the pair also offers live shorts and movie reviews.\n\nIn \"Don't Be Dumb,\" Clark explains a topic while wearing a tweed jacket and bow tie. His posture, gestures, and stilted language are intentionally uncomfortable and awkward. Each episode ends with Clark saying: \"So, next time someone tells you [subject of video], you set them straight! And tell them Josh sent you.\"\n\nInternet Roundup is a new video segment filmed in the studio. Chuck and Josh highlight a couple of posts found deep in the web that they find interesting, entreating or amusing. In 2009, Clark and Bryant began a \"short lived\" webscast.\n\nA full-length \"Stuff You Should Know\" TV show premiered on January 19, 2013 on the Science Channel, which was owned by Discovery Network, the parent company of \"HowStuffWorks\". The show included a pilot and 10 episodes each 30 minutes in length. The series was produced by production company School of Humans.\n\nDescribed as the \"love child of the British version of \"The Office\" and an overheard conversation about science between two reasonably informed guys,\" the show was about a real podcast that is set in a fictional world. Each episode followed Josh and Chuck inside and outside the recording booth, combining the factual information of their podcast with humorous, fictional story lines that align with each podcast topic.\n\nThe show had \"the attention span of a teenaged boy\" and \"bounces from scene to scene without explanation or sense.\" Focus groups at the 2012 South by Southwest screened episodes and provided feedback for the development of the show, and its pacing in particular.\n\nThe lead actress on the show was Caitlin Bitzegaio of the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre. The shows were directed by L.C. Crowley with a theme song and score composed by The Henry Clay People, the \"unofficial house band\" of Stuff You Should Know. Guests on the show included John Hodgman, Sarah Silverman, Neil deGrasse Tyson, Rufus Wainwright, and Michio Kaku.\n\nThe show was canceled after the first season \"due to poor ratings\", although each episode is made available for purchase on iTunes and Google Play. It was the most expensive pilot episode ever produced by the Discovery Channel.\n\nAs with the other podcasts offered by HowStuffWorks, Stuff You Should Know has its own blog updated daily by its hosts and often featuring the same type of material found in the podcasts, often with show followups. There is also both a Twitter account and Facebook page for SYSK. Clark and Bryant were the co-hosts for the Science of Cyborgs event hosted by the Science & Entertainment Exchange.\n\nStarting in 2009, after doing an episode on how microlending works, the show began encouraging listeners to make loans on the online microlending site Kiva. A Stuff You Should Know team had raised $150,000 by the middle of 2010, and more than $2.75 million by November 2014. In 2009 they challenged Stephen Colbert to see whose team could raise $100,000 first and they \"beat the pants off of\" him, reaching that goal in three months.\n\nThe lending team is now run by fan volunteers, has since consistently ranked among the top five teams in terms of both donations and users. the team ranked #7 for new users among new Kiva users, and in the \"Friends\" category of teams, ranked #2 for new users and amount loaned.\n\nClark and Bryant also present two longer and more in-depth audio programs featuring interviews and portions recorded on location available for purchase as audiobooks, which are entitled \"The Super Stuffed Guide to the Economy\" and \"The Super Stuffed Guide to Happiness\".\n\nThey are also working on a \"Stuff You Should Know\" book, which they hope to have published \"before the end of the decade.\"\n\nIn February 2010, Clark, Bryant, and Rowland traveled to Guatemala to promote Cooperative for Education, an organization which gives textbooks to schools in Guatemala to be rented by students for a small fee that is then deposited into an account that will be used to replace old textbooks in the future. They produced a pair of podcasts on the topic.\n\nThe show is downloaded more than 1 million times per week and is consistently on the iTunes Top 10 podcast rankings, peaking at #1. It is \"one of the most downloaded podcasts on the planet.\" The show won the 2014 People's Voice Webby Award in the Mobile – Podcast division. and a place in Podcast Awards's Education category. At live events the demographics of the audiences are \"all over the map. There are some geeks here and there, but also super cool people, and families and kids, and old people.\"\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" chose the TV show in early February 2013 as #7 for their \"The Must List: The Top 10 Things We Love This Week,\" writing, \"Whether you're curious about bee colonies or weather control, Josh Clark and Chuck Bryant have the scoop.\" The podcast has been said to cover \"a truly staggering range of topics.\"\n\nClark and Bryant have been described as \"hosts so lovely you may just fall in love with them,\" and provide the show with \"an everyman, conversational feel to the show — two pals sitting back and picking apart one topic after another.\" Several couples have been brought together because of their mutual fondness for the podcast, and one even had a \"Stuff You Should Know\"-themed wedding.\n\nThey receive over 350 pieces of fan mail a week. After two months, their Facebook page had over 10,000 likes, and as of September 2015 it had more than 750,000. One reviewer said of it: \"It is never not fun to listen to.\"\n\n\"Stuff You Should Know\"s \"beautifully, beautifully done\" production has set \"the audio standard,\" according to podcast reviewers Pod on Pod. They added that the audio quality \"could not be improved\" on the NPR-level production.\n\nThe podcast \"Catholic Stuff You Should Know\" is modeled after Clark and Bryant's podcast.\n\n"}
{"id": "32803170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32803170", "title": "Technology For All", "text": "Technology For All\n\nTechnology For All is a nonprofit organization based in Houston, Texas. Developed in 1997 by local entrepreneurs, Technology For All services community-based organizations (such as development centers, YMCAs, and local schools) with computer technology, training, and other digital incentives “to empower under-resourced communities through the tools of technology.” Through the National Telecommunications and Information Administration's Broadband Technology Opportunities Program grant, Technology For All (TFA) currently hosts 19 public computer centers.\n\nTechnology For All was formed in 1997 as a response to a perceived lack of digital inclusion for historically low-income areas. In 1998, it received M.D Anderson Foundation's first $50,000 grant to help build a community technology center at the M.D. Anderson YMCA. According to their website, TFA has created 180 community technology centers in the United States since its inception, all partnered with community-serving organizations.\n\nWhen the Reliant Astrodome sheltered Hurricane Katrina refugees in 2005, TFA coordinated a lab with 40 computers and other free supplies. \n\nTechnology For All divides its goals into three priorities: community technology center support and development, technology research and innovation, and technology services. \n\nTFA and Rice University operate the TFA-Wireless project, which provides free high-speed wireless Internet to Pecan Park, Houston. In 2011, they installed the first residential deployment of Super Wi-Fi, which uses longer wavelengths to penetrate typical wireless barriers.\n\nTexas Connects Coalition (TXC2) is a partnership between TFA, Austin FreeNet (AFN), and the Metropolitan Austin Interactive Network (MAIN). It was recently awarded a Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP) grant valued at over nine million dollars. The grant is provided by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration and funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The coalition is summarized as a “comprehensive … initiative significantly expanding broadband public computer center capacity ... across Texas.” With the grant, TXC2 plans to install and maintain 70 public computer centers throughout Austin, San Antonio, Houston, and the Brazos Valley to \"provide computer access, technical support, digital literacy, workforce development and other services to low-income and vulnerable populations.\"\n\nThrough the BTOP grant, TFA aims to extend its network of public computer centers to 19. Each lab is partnered with organizations in historically underprivileged neighborhoods, such as Eastside University Village Community Learning Center in Third Ward and the Spring Branch Family Development Center. Each center provides public computers, printers, and Internet access, plus a trainer to manage the center and teach various computer literacy courses. \n\nAccording to their website, TFA operates open labs in these community spaces, located in the following super neighborhoods: \n\nTFA also has rural sites and sites in San Antonio which it manages under the name TFA-Rural Texas San Antonio (TFA-RTSA), listed on the TXC2 website url=http://txc2.org/?page_id=100 TXC2 is a coalition including TFA, TFA-RTSA and Austin FreeNet. The TFA-RTSA sites include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28514541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28514541", "title": "The Annual Steve Biko Memorial Lecture", "text": "The Annual Steve Biko Memorial Lecture\n\nThe Steve Biko Foundation launched the Steve Biko Memorial Lecture in 2000.\n\n12 September 2010 marked the 33rd anniversary of the murder of Steve Biko. In commemoration, the Steve Biko Foundation hosted Professor Alice Walker, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of \"The Color Purple\", in South Africa for a series of events to celebrate the life and works of Steve Biko.\n\nThe 33rd anniversary commemoration consisted of two events. The first. \"An Evening with Alice Walker\", took place on 7 September at the State Theatre in Pretoria. Along with readings by Professor Walker, the event featured South African artists. The second component was the 11th Annual Steve Biko Memorial Lecture, held at Jameson Hall at the University of Cape Town on Thursday 9 September.\n\nSince the year 2000 the lecture has been delivered by luminaries such as Dr. Mamphela Ramphele, Professor Zakes Mda and former Presidents Nelson Mandela and Thabo Mbeki.\n\n\"\"A young man with a sharp intellect and flair for organisation and leadership, Biko realised the need to raise the sagging morale of black people, to raise their consciousness and self-esteem; in his own words to 'overcome the psychological oppression of black people by whites'.\" -Chinua Achebe\"\n\n\"\"Steve Biko, whom we have come to honour, is among this great gallery of people whose work and devotion have impacted those beyond the native shores, and which make it possible for us even to talk about the possibilities of a new Africa out of the colonial ashes of latter-day empires.\" - Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o\"\n\n\"\"History from time to time, brings to the fore the kind of leaders who seize the moment,who cohere the wishes and inspirations of the oppressed.Such was Steve Biko,a fitting product of his time;a proud representative of the reawakening of a people.\"- Nelson Mandela\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12947001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12947001", "title": "The Bell Curve Debate", "text": "The Bell Curve Debate\n\nThe Bell Curve Debate is a 1995 book edited by University of California, Los Angeles historian Russell Jacoby and writer Naomi Glauberman.\n\nA response to \"The Bell Curve\" (1994), by Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray, \"The Bell Curve Debate\" includes 81 articles by 81 authors. Contemporary authors whose writings are collected in the book include K. Anthony Appiah, Gregg Easterbrook, Howard Gardner, Eugene D. Genovese, Nathan Glazer, Stephen Jay Gould, Bob Herbert, Richard Herrnstein, Christopher Hitchens, Irving Louis Horowitz, Arthur Jensen, Leon J. Kamin, Charles Lane, Glenn C. Loury, Richard E. Nisbett, Nell Irvin Painter, Hugh Pearson, Adolph Reed Jr., Carl Rowan, Alan Ryan, Brent Staples, Ellen Willis, and Christopher Winship. Jacoby and Glauberman republish historical materials by authors including Carl Brigham, Theodosius Dobzhansky, Francis Galton, Walter Lippmann, Karl Pearson, and Lewis Terman. The publisher, Times Books, describes the book as a compilation of \"the best of recent reviews and essays, and salient documents drawn from the curious history of this heated debate\" capturing \"the fervor, anger, and scope of an almost unprecedented national argument over the very idea of democracy and the possibility of a tolerant, multiracial America. It is an essential companion and answer to \"The Bell Curve\" and provides scholarship and polemic from every point of view.\"\n\nSince publication, \"The Bell Curve Debate\" has been cited by books describing the issues surrounding IQ testing and scores of various social groups in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "30371259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30371259", "title": "The Concord Review", "text": "The Concord Review\n\nThe Concord Review: A Quarterly Review of Essays by Students of History is an academic journal dedicated to publishing the research papers of high school students. Established in 1987 by William H. Fitzhugh, a Massachusetts educator dismayed with the \"dumbing down\" of writing standards in American secondary schools, publication in the \"Review\" is considered among the most prestigious awards for high school students.\n\nIssued quarterly, the journal publishes research monographs on history topics from high school students from any country, as long as they are in English. Submissions are typically 4000 to 5500 words long, and must be accompanied by a subscription fee (ranging from $70-$150) to the journal in order to be considered.\n\nIn addition to publishing the journal, The Concord Review, Inc. engages in a number of other projects. Five outstanding essays per year are awarded the Ralph Waldo Emerson Prize of about $3000. Fitzhugh also founded the National History Club, with chapters in hundreds of American high schools. Also, The Concord Review, Inc. operates a service called the National Writing Board, which for a fee of $100 will evaluate student writing and forward the results to college admissions committees.\n\nAmong others, the \"Review\" has been supported by Boston-based multimillionaire John Abele.\n\nHaving a paper accepted for publication by \"The Concord Review\" is viewed very favorably by university admissions committees, with the Dean of Admissions for Harvard University considering it equivalent to winning a national mathematics contest. Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., taped a video testimonial praising the \"Review\" for providing a scholarly venue for high school students.\n"}
{"id": "53507692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53507692", "title": "Theresa Malkiel", "text": "Theresa Malkiel\n\nTheresa Serber Malkiel (1874-1949) was a Russian-born American labor activist, suffragist, and educator. She was the first woman to rise from factory work to leadership in the Socialist party. Her 1910 novel, \"The Diary of a Shirtwaist Striker\", is credited with helping to reform New York state labor laws. As head of the Woman's National Committee of the Socialist Party of America (SPA), she established an annual Woman's Day which was the precursor to International Women's Day. In 1911, while on a speaking tour of the American South, she called attention to the problem of white supremacism within the party. She spent her later years promoting adult education for women workers.\n\nTheresa Serber was born in Bar, Russia (now Ukraine) on May 1, 1874, one of four sisters. The family moved to the Lower East Side of New York City in 1891, and seventeen-year-old Theresa went to work as a cloakmaker in a garment factory.\n\nSoon after her arrival in New York she joined the Russian Workingmen's Club. In 1892 she organized the Infant Cloakmaker's Union of New York, a group of mostly Jewish women, and became its first president. Over the next few years she represented her union in the Knights of Labor, the Central Labor Federation, and the United Hebrew Trades. Her exposure to the radicalism of the latter two groups reinforced her socialist beliefs, and in 1893 she joined the Socialist Labor Party (SLP). She was an active member of the SLP for six years, representing her union at the first convention of the Socialist Trade and Labor Alliance.\n\nIn 1899 she left the SLP and joined the Socialist Party of America (SPA). Malkiel believed that only socialism could liberate women, and that socialism, in turn, could not survive without the full participation of women. In theory, the Socialist party was committed to equal rights for men and women, but in practice, it made no effort to reach out specifically to women workers and showed little interest in their concerns. Malkiel concluded that socialist women would have to fight their own parallel battle for equality. Her 1909 essay, \"Where Do We Stand on the Woman Question?\" expresses her frustration with this state of affairs:\n\nFor the workingwoman of today finds herself between two fires—on the one hand, she faces the capitalist class, her bitterest enemy; it foresees a far-reaching danger in her emancipation and with all the ability of its money power tries to resist her eventual advent into the civilized world. In her anguish the workingwoman turns towards her brothers in the hope to find a strong support in their midst, but she is doomed to be disillusioned, for they discourage her activity and are utterly listless towards the outcome of her struggle.\nIn 1905, Malkiel organized the Women's Progressive Society of Yonkers, which became a branch of the Socialist Women's Society of New York. Although the socialist party was officially opposed to separatism, Malkiel believed a women's organization was necessary to attract women to the party, and as a practice ground for women activists. Women were tired of their limited positions in the party as \"official cake-bakers and money-collectors,\" she said. Meanwhile, she wrote socialist propaganda leaflets and published numerous articles on socialism and the woman question in journals such as the \"Progressive Woman\", \"Machinists' Monthly\", and the \"International Socialist Review\". She also contributed to the \"New York Call\", a socialist journal she co-founded with her husband.\n\nMalkiel was elected to the Woman's National Committee of the Socialist party in 1909. She served as a delegate to several conventions, campaigned, wrote pamphlets, and, like Rose Pastor Stokes, helped raise awareness of immigrant women's concerns. She established suffrage clubs designed to appeal to working women and bring them into the party. She also established an annual Woman's Day, starting on February 28, 1909, which was observed by several European socialist parties as well as the SPA. Woman's Day was the precursor to International Women's Day which is celebrated each year on March 8.\n\nIn 1909 she worked closely with the Women's Trade Union League (WTUL) to support the New York shirtwaist strike with publicity and fundraising.\n\nIn 1910, Malkiel published \"The Diary of a Shirtwaist Striker\", a fictionalized account of the shirtwaist strike. She depicted the strike from the point of view of an American-born worker who is initially wary of her immigrant co-workers. Over time she grows closer to them and becomes increasingly aware of the need to win the ballot as well as the strike, and of the need for more solidarity between male and female workers.\n\nAfter the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire the following year, the book garnered public attention and helped trigger legislative reforms. Later scholars tended to dismiss the book as propaganda. In 1990 it was reprinted by Cornell University Press with an introduction by historian Françoise Basch, and received positive reviews from Alice Kessler-Harris, Mari Jo Buhle, and the \"ILR Review\".\n\nDuring a speaking tour of the American South in 1911, Malkiel was appalled to learn that white socialists were practicing racial segregation. In one Arkansas town, she was invited to speak at a gathering of over a thousand African Americans, but party organizers would not allow it. In another, the Socialist local refused to allow African Americans to join. At one event in Mississippi she gave a speech in the pouring rain to a group of dues-paying African-American socialists who were denied entry to the local meeting hall. Her scathing report in the \"New York Call\" created a stir:\n\nLord preserve us from this kind of Socialists...We must not preach Socialism to the negroes because the white workingmen are foolish enough to allow their masters to arouse their prejudices against their fellow workers in order to keep them divided so as to play off one against the other.\n\nDespite her occasional use of terms that are now considered ethnic slurs, it is clear she was vehemently opposed to segregation and considered it incompatible with socialism. Her disillusionment in this regard echoes her earlier laments about the party's treatment of women. In modern terms, she supported an early form of intersectionality.\n\nIn 1914, as head of the Socialist Suffrage Campaign of New York, Malkiel organized a mass meeting at Carnegie Hall. In 1916, she was one of three women appointed by the National Executive Committee to travel across the country campaigning for suffrage. Although the Socialist party was officially opposed to cooperating with suffragist organizations such as the National Woman Suffrage Association, Malkiel supported the idea, stipulating that socialists should always present their views from a socialist perspective. She was suspicious of well-to-do suffragists such as Alva Belmont, and warned against being distracted by the \"false consciousness\" of bourgeois feminism.\n\nMalkiel went on two national tours for the Socialist party during World War I, speaking on women's rights and against American involvement in the war. In 1920 she ran for the New York State Assembly on the Socialist ticket and was narrowly defeated.\n\nMalkiel spent the last two decades of her life promoting education for immigrant women and assisting them with naturalization. She founded the Brooklyn Adult Students Association and directed its classes and summer camp.\n\nShe married attorney and fellow socialist Leon A. Malkiel in 1900 and moved to Yonkers. She gave birth to a daughter, Henrietta, in 1903. Although no longer a factory worker herself, she remained committed to improving the lives of working women. She died on November 17, 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "28926470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28926470", "title": "UNU-OP", "text": "UNU-OP\n\nThe United Nations University Office at UNESCO serves as academic interface between the United Nations University (UNU) and its Institutes and UNESCO and its Permanent Delegations in Paris, France. The UNU Office at UNESCO also develops contacts between UNU and other Paris-based international organisations as well with French academia.\n\nThe aim of the UNU Office at UNESCO is to make UNU a stakeholder and a full-fledged partner of the UNESCO system and the diplomatic environment in Paris.\nThe Office seeks to strengthen existing cooperation and to explore potential joint projects in areas of mutual interest to the two organisations.\n\nTo this end, the UNU Office at UNESCO organises public events aimed at presenting UNU’s activities. It represents UNU at meetings of UNESCO, particularly the spring session of the Executive Board and the General Conference, major world conferences as well as more informal meetings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093190", "title": "Vorarlberg School", "text": "Vorarlberg School\n\nThe Vorarlberg School of Architecture (German: \"Vorarlberger Schule\") refers to a group of architects and builders founded in 1657 by Johann Michael Beer in the Austrian town of Au im Bregenzerwald. The school remained active in southern Germany and Switzerland until the end of the 18th century. Its most important members came from the Beer, Moosbrugger and Thumb families. The Vorarlberg School developed a distinct design for churches known as \"Vorarlberger Münsterschema\". The school is notable for the its skillful blending of buildings (most of which are abbeys) with the surrounding landscape.\n\n"}
{"id": "2837314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2837314", "title": "Yara Yavelberg", "text": "Yara Yavelberg\n\nYara Yavelberg (May 7, 1943 – August 20, 1971) was a Brazilian psychologist and university lecturer, member of the Brazilian resistance movement against the Brazilian military government. She was believed to have committed suicide in Salvador, Bahia in 1971, but a recent autopsy has shown that she has been murdered by security agents.\n\nYara Yavelberg was born in São Paulo. She was initially a passive supporter of the resistance movement, but eventually became a member of MR-8. She had a relationship with Carlos Lamarca, a Brazilian Army officer who deserted and became one of the most important leaders of the guerrilla movement that opposed the dictatorship. With the collapse of the guerrilla movement, Yavelberg and Lamarca fled to Bahia.\n\nUniversity of São Paulo's Psychology Institute paid a homage to Yavelberg, an alumnus of their Psychology School, by naming its academic center the Yara Yavelberg Academic Center.\n\nShe was a friend of the former Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff, who paid a tribute to her during the launch of her candidacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "36950334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36950334", "title": "Zoological Collection Rostock", "text": "Zoological Collection Rostock\n\nThe Zoological Collection Rostock (ZSRO, German: Zoologische Sammlung Rostock) is a scientific university collection and associated with the zoological department of the University of Rostock, Germany. The collection was founded in 1775 by Oluf Gerhard Tychsen and is used both for teaching and research. Parts of the collection are open to the public.\n\nThe zoological collection was founded in 1775 by Oluf Gerhard Tychsen, an orientalist and head librarian of the University of Rostock. In 1789, the collection became part of the “Academic Museum”. It was relocated to the Universitätsplatz in 1844 after the adoption of parts of the collection of the grand duke in Ludwigslust. The zoological collection is still located at the Universitätsplatz. Since 2002, it features a public exhibition room with changing special exhibitions.\n\nThe collection holds about 140.000 series of taxa from all over the world. The collection focus includes mollusca (ca. 14.000), Polychaeta (ca. 2.500), fish (ca. 2.500), birds (ca. 2.400), and scorpions (ca. 1.000). Furthermore, the collection owns important historical teaching models, including models by the Blaschka brothers and Ziegler wax models. It is also home to the \"Rostocker Pfeilstorch\", which provided early evidence for long-distance migration by storks.\n\n"}
