{"id": "379130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379130", "title": "Alan Archibald Campbell-Swinton", "text": "Alan Archibald Campbell-Swinton\n\nAlan Archibald Campbell-Swinton (18 October 1863 – 19 February 1930) was a Scottish consulting electrical engineer, who provided the theoretical basis for the electronic television, two decades before the technology existed to implement it. He began experimenting around 1903 with the use of cathode ray tubes for the electronic transmission and reception of images. Campbell described the theoretical basis for an all electronic method of producing television in a 1908 letter to \"Nature\". Campbell-Swinton's concept was central to the cathode ray television because of his proposed modification of the cathode ray tube that allowed its use as both a transmitter and receiver of light. The cathode-ray tube was the system of electronic television that was subsequently developed in later years, as technology caught up with Campbell-Swinton's initial ideas. Other inventors would use Campbell-Swinton's ideas, as a starting-point to realise the cathode ray tube television as the standard, workable form of all electronic television that it became for decades after his death. It is generally considered that the original credit for the successful theoretical conception of using a cathode ray tube device for imaging should belong to Campbell-Swinton.\n\nHe was born in Edinburgh the son of advocate Archibald Campbell Swinton.\n\nCampbell-Swinton was educated at Cargilfield Trinity School and Fettes College (1878–1881).\n\nHe was one of the first to explore the medical applications of radiography, opening the first radiographic laboratory in the United Kingdom in 1896. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1915. He is better known by his work on the electronic television. He discovered the phenomenon known as \"magnetic focusing\" in 1896, he found that a longitudinal magnetic field generated by an axial coil can focus an electron beam.\n\nCampbell-Swinton wrote a letter in response to an article in the 4 June 1908 issue of \"Nature\" by Shelford Bidwell entitled \"Telegraphic Photography and Electric Vision\". Even as early as 1908, it was recognised that \"The final, insurmountable problems with any form of mechanical scanning were the limited number of scans per second, which produced a flickering image, and the relatively large size of each hole in the disk, which resulted in poor resolution\".\n\nCampbell-Swinton's letter was published in the 18 June 1908 issue of \"Nature\". The name of the article is \"Distant Electric Vision\". He wrote: \"This part of the problem of obtaining distant electric vision can probably be solved by the employment of two beams of cathode rays (one at the transmitting and one at the receiving station) synchronously deflected by the varying fields of two electromagnets placed at right angles to one another and energised by two alternating electric currents of widely different frequencies, so that the moving extremities of the two beams are caused to sweep simultaneously over the whole of the required surface within the one-tenth of a second necessary to take advantage of visual persistence. Indeed, so far as the receiving apparatus is concerned, the moving cathode beam has only to be arranged to impinge on a suitably sensitive fluorescent screen, and given suitable variations in its intensity, to obtain the desired result.\"\n\nHe gave a speech in London in 1911 where he described in great detail how distant electric vision could be achieved. This was to be done by using cathode ray tubes (CRTs) at both the transmitting and receiving ends. The photoelectric screen in the proposed transmitting device was a mosaic of isolated rubidium cubes. This was the first iteration of the electronic television which is still in use today. When Swinton gave his speech others had already been experimenting with the use of cathode ray tubes as a receiver, but the use of the technology as a transmitter was unheard of. His concept for a fully electronic television system was later popularised by Hugo Gernsback as the \"Campbell-Swinton Electronic Scanning System\" in the August 1915 issue of the popular magazine \"Electrical Experimenter\".\n\nIn 1914 he once again described his system in his presidential address to the Roentgen Ray Society and in 1921 a book was published describing it in some detail. He himself described his system seven years later in the June 1928 issue of \"Modern Wireless\", \"Television by Cathode Rays\". \n\nIn a letter to \"Nature\" published in October 1926, Campbell-Swinton also announced the results of some \"not very successful experiments\" he had conducted with G. M. Minchin and J. C. M. Stanton. They had attempted to generate an electrical signal by projecting an image onto a selenium-coated metal plate that was simultaneously scanned by a cathode ray beam. These experiments were conducted before March 1914, when Minchin died, but they were later repeated by two different teams in 1937, by his students H. Miller and J. W. Strange from EMI, and by H. Iams and A. Rose from RCA. Both teams succeeded in transmitting \"very faint\" images with the original Campbell-Swinton's selenium-coated plate, but much better images were obtained when the metal plate was covered with zinc sulphide or selenide, or with aluminium or zirconium oxide treated with caesium. These experiments are the base of the future vidicon.\n\nAlongside his research into the electrical transmission of images, Campbell-Swinton also worked in voice telephony, founding the short-lived Equitable Telephone Association in the 1880s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2338581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2338581", "title": "Alcon", "text": "Alcon\n\nAlcon is swiss global medical company specializing in eye care products and headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. Alcon's American headquarters are located in Fort Worth, Texas. Alcon is a subsidiary of Novartis although the company announced intention to seek shareholder approval for 100% spinoff of Alcon eye care devices business in order to create an independent company in 2019.\n\nAlcon was founded in 1945 in Fort Worth, Texas, USA. The company started as a small pharmacy in Fort Worth and was named for its founders, pharmacists Robert Alexander and William Conner. Conner and Alexander focused on sterile ophthalmic products.\n\nNestlé of Switzerland purchased Alcon in 1977. Alcon expanded its manufacturing capability with new plants in South America and Europe and drastically increased its investment in research. In 1979, Alcon acquired Texas Pharmacal Company which became Dermatological Products of Texas (and is now DPT Laboratories). In 1984, Alcon founded the Technical Excellence Award to promote achievements in R&D excellence and has awarded it to more than 100 recipients. The Alcon product line has expanded from pharmaceuticals to the surgical arena. Today, Alcon has operations in 75 countries and their products are sold in over 180 countries.\n\nNestlé conducted an initial public offering of 25% of its stake in Alcon in 2002. The stock is traded under the ticker symbol ACL. In July 2008, Novartis purchased approximately 25% of Nestlé's stake in Alcon, with an option to buy Nestlé's remaining shares beginning in 2010. Novartis bought 52% stake from Nestlé for $28.1 Billion. This deal brought the total ownership of Novartis to 77%. Beginning January 2010 Novartis formally announced it will be completing the exercise options for finishing purchasing the rest of Alcon and then promptly continue to exercise merger and takeover of Alcon. On March 29, 2010, Alcon acquired Durezol and Zyclorin from Sirion Therapeutics. Alcon received regulatory approval to acquire the rights of Durezol emulsion in the US and the global rights, excluding Latin America, for Zyclorin from Sirion Therapeutics.\n\nOn June 28, 2010, Alcon's Independent Director Committee announced that a recommendation by the Committee was an indispensable first step before the board of the company can decide on the merger proposal of Novartis AG, refuted Novartis’ public implications that it would be able to unilaterally impose the merger irrespective of the Independent Director Committee’s position once Novartis became Alcon’s majority shareholder. On July 8, 2010, Alcon's independent director committee (IDC) had set up a $50 million litigation trust to ensure company's minority shareholders get the best deal from bidder Novartis AG.\n\n"}
{"id": "41152955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41152955", "title": "Alfredo Rouillon", "text": "Alfredo Rouillon\n\nAlfredo J. Rouillon (1875-1951) was an entrepreneur, businessman and politician from Rosario, Santa Fe, Argentina. He served as mayor of Rosario from 1922 to 1923.\n\nHe was the son of Bernardo Rouillon and Magdalena Vierci. Due to the early death of his father, he was educated in Switzerland.\n\nIn 1901 he married Maria Hortensia Echesortu, with whom he had nine children: Alfredo, Armando, Hortensia, Guillermo, Fernando, Stella, Elena, Ernesto, and Jorge .\n\nHis usual residence was in Moreno and Cordoba in downtown Rosario, Villa Hortensia was the family summer residence.\n\nHe served as mayor of Rosario, councilor, president of numerous commercial companies, founder of several clubs in the city of Rosario like the Jockey Club, the Club Rosarino de pelota, pioneer of aviation and communications in Argentina. He was also president of the Argentine Patriotic League, Rosario section.\n\nDuring his tenure as Mayor of Rosario his friend Santos Dumont landed his airplane in the city.\n"}
{"id": "51786134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51786134", "title": "Alona Barkat", "text": "Alona Barkat\n\nAlona Barkat (; born 24 June 1969) is an Israeli businesswoman, and owner of the football team Hapoel Beer Sheva.\n\nBarkat was born and raised in Ashkelon, Israel. At the age of 14 she moved to Jerusalem to . Four years later she returned to national service in her hometown. She then studied at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, performing undergraduate and graduate studies in the history of the Middle East. During her studies she met Eli Barkat, then a student in Mathematics and Computer Science, and the two married.\n\nIn 1996 she moved to Silicon Valley in the United States with her husband, who became a businessman with his brother Nir Barkat. He was an early investor in Check Point and set up the venture capital fund BRM and IVN. In the eight years in which the family lived in the United States, Barkat started in the field of philanthropy. Among other things, the fund management company IVN also funded social projects, and has been active in organizations such as AIPAC and the Jewish Federation of San Francisco.\n\nIn 2004, she moved back to Israel with her family. Relations with the businessman Lonnie Herzikovic, then-owner of the football team Maccabi Tel Aviv, led her to consider entering a partnership with Maccabi Tel Aviv. She was involved in establishing a research institute at the University of Tel Aviv, together with the Rashi Foundation, where she met Eli Alaluf, CEO of the Fund at the time. Alaluf convinced her to buy the football team Hapoel Beer Sheva, which played in the second division at the time.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, just weeks before the opening of the season, the acquisition of the group from the previous owner, Eli Zino, was completed. Barkat became the first woman in Israel to own a football team. Barkat's management team put special emphasis on a youth department, educational activities, and community connection. In March 2010, the group announced their departure at the end of the season, after a number of fans of the group tried to attack the coach, Guy Azouri. Two months later, after seeing a dramatic improvement in fan behavior, she announced that she had changed her mind and that she intended to stay with the group.\n\nIn May 2016 the team won the Football League Championship in football.\n\nBarkat lives with her husband and three children in Tel Aviv, Israel.\n"}
{"id": "75610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75610", "title": "Benjamin Harrison V", "text": "Benjamin Harrison V\n\nBenjamin Harrison V (April 5, 1726April 24, 1791), from Charles City County, Virginia, was an American planter and merchant, a revolutionary leader and a Founding Father of the United States. He received his higher education at the College of William and Mary. Harrison was a representative to the Virginia House of Burgesses for Surry County, Virginia (1756–1758, 1785–1786), and Charles City County (1766–1776, 1787–1790). He was a Virginia delegate to the Continental Congress from 1774 to 1777 and, during the Second Continental Congress, was a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Harrison served as Virginia's fifth governor from 1781 to 1784. His direct descendants include two U.S. Presidents—his son William Henry Harrison Sr. and great-grandson President Benjamin Harrison.\n\nHarrison was the eldest child of Benjamin Harrison IV and Anne Carter, and a grandson of Robert Carter I. The first Benjamin Harrison is said to have arrived in the colonies around 1630. British historian F. A. Inderwick contends that Benjamin IV is also descended from Thomas Harrison, a participant in the regicide of Charles I, but this is disputed. Benjamin IV and Anne built the manor house at Berkeley Plantation in Virginia and he served as a Justice of the Peace and represented Charles City County in the Virginia House of Burgesses.\n\nBenjamin V, one of ten children, was described in his youth as \"tall and powerfully built\", with \"features that were clearly defined, and a well-shaped mouth above a strong pointed chin\". His next younger brother, Carter Henry, became a leader in Cumberland County; two other brothers, Henry and Robert, died young. Brother Nathaniel settled in Prince George County, became sheriff, and was later elected to the House of Burgesses. Another brother, Henry, fought in the French and Indian War and later settled at Hunting Quarter in Sussex County. The youngest brother Charles joined the Continental Army and rose to the rank of brigadier general.\n\nOn July 12, 1745, at the age of fifty-one, father Benjamin IV, in the midst of an afternoon thunderstorm, with daughters Hannah and Lucy a second in hand, attempted to shut an upstairs window, was struck by lightning, and he and Hannah were killed. Upon his father's death, Benjamin inherited the bulk, but not all, of his father's estate including the family home Berkeley and a number of surrounding plantations; he also assumed ownership and responsibility for the manor house's equipment, stock and numerous slaves. Benjamin's younger siblings inherited another six plantations, possessions and slaves, as the father chose to depart from the tradition of primogeniture (i.e. leaving the entire estate to the eldest son.)\n\nWhile Harrison's slaves were sustained by the success of the plantations, their treatment presented a picture consistent with the period. It is known that in the division of slaves among his children, Benjamin's father specifically prohibited any splitting of slave families. The Harrisons also assumed a sense of duty to indoctrinate their slaves in Christianity. There were a number of mulattoes among the slaves Benjamin V inherited; while there is no specific information to show who fathered them, it was particularly common for younger plantation family members and guests, as well as overseers, to invade slave dwellings for carnal reasons. In this light, Benjamin IV's decision to ignore primogeniture subjected his younger children and their slaves to potentially precarious circumstances.\n\nBenjamin V followed his father in representing the counties of Charles City and Surry in the House of Burgesses and also served as a county justice. In 1770 Benjamin was among the first signers of an agreement among Virginia lawmakers and merchants boycotting British imports until the British Parliament repealed its taxes on tea. Harrison also joined in sponsoring a bill that declared certain laws passed by Parliament affecting Virginia to be illegal without the consent of His Majesty's subjects in the colony.\n\nLate in 1773 the famous Boston Tea Party occurred and the British Parliament enacted punitive measures which were called by the colonies Intolerable Acts. On May 24, 1774 Harrison, along with eighty-eight other members of the Virginia Burgesses, signed a new association condemning the action of the Parliament, and agreed to invite other colonies to convene a Continental Congress. On August 5, 1774 Harrison was selected by convention as one of seven delegates to represent Virginia at the Congress. He set out that month, leaving his home state for the first time, and headed to Philadelphia, arriving there on September 2, 1774 for the First Continental Congress.\n\nHarrison gravitated to the older and more conservative of his fellow delegates in Philadelphia, and was more distant with the New Englanders and the more radical, particularly the Adams family. Though describing Harrison variously as \"another Sir John Falstaff\", \"obscene\", \"profane\" and \"impious\", John Adams in his diary also recalled Harrison as having said that he was so eager to participate in the Continental Congress \"he would have come on foot.\" Their dislike for one another was primarily due to differences in lifestyle and personality. Adams, the lawyer, author and diplomat of Puritan heritage, generally shunned unnecessary things which brought pleasure—like lively food and drink, and a humorous tale—things which Harrison, the rural, corpulent, and exuberant planter, relished. Party factionalism also accounted for the divide; Harrison aligned with John Hancock, and Adams with Richard Henry Lee, whom Harrison had adamantly opposed in the House of Burgesses.\n\nThe First Congress, and with it first impressions, concluded the following month in October, with finalization of a Petition to the King, which was signed by all delegates including Harrison, and requested the King's attention to the colonies' grievances and restoration of harmony with the crown.\n\nThe Second Continental Congress, including Harrison, convened in May 1775. During the Congress he resided in a house in north Philadelphia with Peyton Randolph and George Washington. He remained there alone after Washington assumed command of the Continental Army and Randolph died. Harrison, in attendance to the session's end in July 1776, served frequently as Chairman of the Committee of the Whole in the Congress, presided over the final debates on the independence resolution offered by Virginia delegate Richard Henry Lee, and presided as well over the debates and amendments to the final Declaration itself.\n\nOn June 28, 1776, Jefferson's draft including initial alterations of the Declaration of Independence was reported to Congress by the Committee of Five charged with the initial drafting.The Congress resolved on July 1 that the Declaration be considered by Harrison's Committee of the Whole. Having further amended the Declaration on July 2 and 3, the Committee adopted the Declaration in final form on Thursday, July 4; Harrison duly reported this to the Congress, and delivered to Congress a final reading of the Declaration. The Declaration was then unanimously agreed upon and Congress resolved to have the Declaration engrossed and signed by those present, which signing took place on August 2, 1776.\n\nHarrison was indisputably known for his sense of humor. Even detractor John Adams conceded in his diary that \"Harrison's contributions and many pleasantries steadied rough sessions.\" Indeed, while preparing to sign the Declaration, the rather rotund Harrison famously quipped to Elbridge Gerry, who had taken his place at the table to sign: \"I shall have a great advantage over you, Mr. Gerry, when we are all hung for what we are now doing. From the size and weight of my body I shall die in a few minutes and be with the angels, but from the lightness of your body you will dance in the air an hour or two before you are dead.\"\n\nHarrison would indeed soon witness the Declaration's consequences, both politically and personally. He returned to the re-convening Congress in Philadelphia in November and assumed duties required in the conduct of the war. He, along with a number of other delegates, went to Cambridge with George Washington to plan the continuing, supporting and regulating of the Continental army. Harrison also worked closely with fellow delegates specifically for the defense of South Carolina, New York and Massachusetts. His service was requested as a member of the Committee of Secret Correspondence for the Congress, and also as Chairman of the Board of War during the Revolution. From December 1776 until March 1777 the Congress was forced by threat from British forces to remove itself to Baltimore, a location which Harrison did not prefer. A similar relocation was again required the following fall, to Pennsylvania on that occasion.\n\nHarrison found himself at odds with Washington over Marquis de Lafayette's commission, which Harrison insisted was honorary only and without pay. He also created controversy in his endorsement of the rights of Quakers not to bear arms in accordance with their religion. He unsuccessfully argued, throughout the formation of the Articles of Confederation, that Virginia be given greater numerical representation than other states based on population and land mass. Harrison's Congressional membership ended in October 1777 and he returned to Virginia where he quickly renewed his efforts in the House of Burgesses, retaining the Speakership until 1780.\n\nIn January 1781, a British force of 1,600 led by American turncoat Benedict Arnold was positioned at the mouth of the James River and Harrison was called upon to return immediately to Philadelphia and make request for military support in his state. Knowing that Berkeley was one of Arnold's primary targets, Harrison relocated his family before setting out. In Philadelphia his pleas for Virginia were heard, and he succeeded in obtaining increased gunpowder, supplies and troops, but only on a delayed basis. Meanwhile, Arnold advanced up the James, wreaking havoc on both sides of the river. Though the Harrison family avoided capture in Arnold's January raid on Berkeley, Arnold ensured that no likeness of the family then in the home would survive, intently removing and burning all family portraits. Most of Harrison's possessions, and a large portion of the house were destroyed. Other signers were similarly targeted, with more horrific consequences. Harrison took up the rehabilitation of his home, then returned to his correspondence with Washington and continued efforts to obtain armaments, troops and clothing supplies for other southern states.\n\nThe Virginia Assembly, led in 1781 by Gov. Thomas Jefferson, Speaker Harrison, Thomas Nelson and others encountered difficulties and danger in government affairs similar to those previously experienced at the Congress; advancing British forces led by Banastre Tarleton harassed the Assembly. Gov. Jefferson called a special session of the Assembly in Richmond, but the British threat forced session adjournments westward, first to Charlottesville and then again further to Staunton.\n\nThe Yorktown victory in October 1781 provided only brief respite for Harrison, then age 55, who began on November 30 to serve as the fifth Governor of Virginia until 1784. The primary problem he confronted was money—as in other colonies, the coffers of the Virginia treasury were drained by the war and the government was plagued by creditors, both domestic and foreign. It was clear that there was no capacity for military action outside of the immediate area, so Harrison steadfastly opposed offensive action sought against Indians in the Kentucky and Illinois country. He alternatively pursued a policy of treating with the Cherokee, Chickasaw and Creek Indian tribes, which allowed peace to last, at least for the remainder of his term.\n\nIn 1788, Harrison participated as a member of the Virginia Ratifying Convention for the Federal Constitution. However, being skeptical of a foreseeably large central government, Harrison, along with Patrick Henry and other men of prominence, opposed the constitution because of the absence of a bill of rights.\n\nHe continued his work in the House until he died in April 1791 when his son William Henry Harrison was 18 years old at his home Berkeley after a dinner party celebrating his final electoral success.\n\nHarrison is the namesake of a residence hall at the College of William and Mary.\n\nSpecific\nBibliography\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52083301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52083301", "title": "Beverley Nielsen", "text": "Beverley Nielsen\n\nBeverley Nielsen (born 25 January 1960), is an entrepreneur, educator and campaigner who works as executive director, Institute of Design and Economic Acceleration (IDEA) at Birmingham City University. She has previously worked as a director for AGA Rangemaster, and as managing director for Fired Earth. In 2016 Nielsen was selected as the Liberal Democrat Candidate for the Mayor of the West Midlands, but was defeated in the May 2017 mayoral election by Conservative candidate Andy Street.\n\nNielsen married Robert Emmerson in 1992 and they have three children, Niels, Charlie, and Amelia.\n\nNielsen was born in Malvern Worcestershire where her mother, Ethel Mary Nielsen, was, for a period, a teacher at Malvern Girls’ College and her father, Dr Stanley Nielsen, was a research chemist at the Royal Radar Establishment (now known as Qinetiq). Following this he and his young family relocated to Ireland where he worked for the National Board of Science and Technology, the organisation with central responsibility for national science and technology (later reformed as part of Eolas).\n\nNielsen attended the Grove Primary School, Malvern, and following the family’s move to Ireland she was educated at Glengara Park School, later becoming Rathdown School, Glenageary and St Columba’s College, Rathfarnham, Dublin, before attending Trinity College Dublin where she completed a degree in Law, following which she completed a Master's degree in Business Studies from University College Dublin, completing her dissertation on the International Marketing of Irish Designer Fashion.\n\nAfter graduating, Nielsen worked for the Confederation of British Industry, London, and researched the impact of non-tariff barriers across the European Community on British Business, producing a report for the House of Lords Select Committee on the European Communities, in 1982. Following this Beverley was promoted to the position of Acting Manager, CBI Brussels.\n\nShe later worked in fashion at New York Vogue, in Dublin as an equity dealer for Dermot Desmond, creator of the International Financial Services Centre, before returning to the CBI in 1992 and working as Assistant Director, CBI North West, contributing to the successful lobbying for Runway 2 at Manchester Airport and promoting best practice sharing amongst SMEs as a board director of Excellence North West.\n\nIn 1995 she was appointed to the position of Director, CBI West Midlands, where Nielsen represented West Midlands industry, collaborating with CBI members and Regional Chairmen, including Lord Jones of Birmingham, Chairman, CBI West Midlands 1998–2000, whilst lobbying to promote the wider value of West Midlands’ manufacturing. Beverley continued to lobby for business becoming CEO, for the Midlands tourism lobby, the Heart of England Tourist Board during the Foot & Mouth disease crisis. In early 2003 she moved to work in manufacturing and retail as a director for AGA Rangemaster, and later as managing director of subsidiary business, Fired Earth.\n"}
{"id": "27982502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27982502", "title": "Chang Dae-whan", "text": "Chang Dae-whan\n\nChang Dae-whan (also known as Chang Dae-Hwan, born 21 March 1952) is a South Korean businessman. He is best known as the president of the \"Maeil Business Newspaper\", South Korea's main business daily. He is the founder of the \"World Knowledge Forum\". The World Knowledge Forum is the largest forum of its kind in Asia. He also served a brief stint as South Korea's acting prime minister in August 2002 under president Kim Dae-jung, but the National Assembly voted not to confirm him.\n\nChang obtained a bachelor's degree in politics at the University of Rochester in 1973. He also received a diploma for the Study of EC (European Community) in Belgium in June 1974, and went on to do an M.A. in international affairs at George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs. Afterwards, Chang received his M.A. and Ph.D. in economics and management from New York University, where he wrote his 1987 doctoral dissertation on South Korean construction firms in the Middle East. He serves as the president of the South Korean branch of the NYU alumni association.\n\nChang started his newspaper career as a manager of planning department at Maeil Business Newspaper on 1 January 1986. He then rose to the position of director, managing director, and executive director successively, finally becoming the president and publisher in 1988.\n\nChang is a Commissioner for the Global Commission on Internet Governance.\n\nChang was named as South Korea's acting PM on 9 August 2002, after the National Assembly declined to confirm his predecessor Chang Sang. The nomination was a surprise to fellow top-level civil servants in their 60s, as Chang was just 50 years old at the time, and had no experience in government. If appointed, he would have been the wealthiest member of the cabinet, with ₩5.6 billion in family assets, according to his self-report. However, during his confirmation hearings, Grand National Party (GNP) members including Hong Joon-pyo and Ahn Kyung-ryul expressed their opposition. Chang himself also acknowledged in a press conference that he had falsely registered himself as living in Seoul's Gangnam-gu to enroll his son in a better school. In the end he was rejected by a vote of 151-112. \n\nHe was married and has two children.\n"}
{"id": "34876244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34876244", "title": "Clara Ledesma", "text": "Clara Ledesma\n\nClara Ledesma Terrazas (5 March 1924 – 25 May 1999) was an artist from the Dominican Republic.\n\nBorn in Santiago de los Caballeros, she initially studied art under Yoryi Morel in his academy in that city. Ledesma later enrolled in the National School of Fine Arts in Santo Domingo, graduating in 1948. \"Ledesma was one of the first women to join the National School of Fine Arts.\"  Her professors included Celeste Woss y Gil and George Hausdorf, while her primary mentor was painting professor Josep Gausachs. Fellow students included Gilberto Hernández Ortega and Eligio Pichardo.\n\nAfter graduating, she taught drawing at the National School of Fine Arts.\n\nIn 1949, Ledesma had her first solo exhibition and in 1951 she opened a studio/gallery, where she displayed her works as well as those of other artists. With the proceeds from a very successful solo exhibition in 1952, Ledesma traveled to Europe to further her education. She studied painting in Barcelona and Madrid, and exhibited her works in galleries in Spain. Ledesma also traveled to Lisbon and Paris to visit important museums. She was particularly influenced by the works of Marc Chagall, Joan Miró and Paul Klee. During her stay in Europe, Ledesma met Bolivian artist Walter Terrazas, who returned to Santo Domingo with her in 1954.\n\n\"She studied painting at prestigious academies abroad and then returned to the country where she presented works that she had conducted in Europe under the influence of Miro, Chagall and Paul Klee, among others.\"\n\nIn Santo Domingo, she worked closely with other important Dominican artists, including Gilberto Hernández Ortega, Josep Gausachs and Jaime Colson. In 1955, she was named vice director of the National School of Fine Arts.\n\nIn 1961, Ledesma and her husband moved to New York City, New York, where she opened another gallery. She lived and worked in New York City the rest of her life.\n\nLedesma had numerous international solo exhibitions, including events in Madrid, Mexico City and New York City, and participated in group exhibitions in Brazil, Spain, Cuba, Haiti, Venezuela, Argentina and Puerto Rico.\nLedesma's style ranged from Expressionism and Surrealism to Abstraction. She is known for her use of brilliant colors, imaginative figures and the feeling of magic and mysticism created in her paintings and drawings. In 1955, journalist Horia Tanasescu described her work, \"At times ironic, often playful, but taking great care in the production of her paintings, this artist introduces an enthusiasm for life to the national art scene that is in striking contrast to the solemnity of the majority of her fellow artists.\"\n\n\"“Ledesma also touched on social realism in her work, with her most noted series underlining the racial inequities of the time.” \n\n\"She tried to represent native paintings, with concern, but away from the drama. One of her best stage was marked by the issue of blackness.\"\n\nHer artwork can be found in various private collections worldwide. It can also be found in the Metropolitan Museum of New York, the Metropolitan Museum of Miami, the Museum of Modern Art in Mexico, the Contemporary Art of Madrid and the Gallery of Modern Art. Ledesma's work has also been featured in the Sarduy Gallery of New York, Art Gallery Nader, Signs of New York, and the Gallery of Modern Art in Santo Domingo.\n\n\nLedesma died in Jamaica, Queens, at the age of 75.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5465197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5465197", "title": "Compressed Gas Association", "text": "Compressed Gas Association\n\nThe Compressed Gas Association (CGA) is an American trade association for the industrial and medical gas supply industries.\n\nThe CGA publishes standards and practices that codify industry practices. In cases where government regulation is inspecific, CGA documents are considered authoritative. CGA falls into a group of trade associations whose publications are relied on by government. These groups include the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and ASTM International. For example, the state of Montana, the U.S. Army, and OSHA point to CGA documents for regulatory guidance.\n\nThe CGA provides detail specifications for the outlet connections of gas containers. They are based on the characteristics of the gas and the storage pressure. flammability, toxicity, state (permanent gas or liquified) and corrosiveness of the gas. These connections are identified by a 3-digit number, such as CGA555. The range of available connection standards covers the majority of the range of industrial, ultra-pure and medical gases in use, including the medical pin index safety system, scuba cylinder valves and liquefied natural gas for home use.\n\nThe standards include:\n"}
{"id": "11416621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11416621", "title": "Corporate tax in the United States", "text": "Corporate tax in the United States\n\nCorporate tax is imposed in the United States at the federal, most state, and some local levels on the income of entities treated for tax purposes as corporations. Since January 1, 2018, the nominal federal corporate tax rate in the United States of America is a flat 21% due to the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. State and local taxes and rules vary by jurisdiction, though many are based on federal concepts and definitions. Taxable income may differ from book income both as to timing of income and tax deductions and as to what is taxable. The corporate Alternative Minimum Tax was also eliminated by the 2017 reform, but some states have alternative taxes. Like individuals, corporations must file tax returns every year. They must make quarterly estimated tax payments. Groups of corporations controlled by the same owners may file a consolidated return.\n\nSome corporate transactions are not taxable. These include most formations and some types of mergers, acquisitions, and liquidations. Shareholders of a corporation are taxed on dividends distributed by the corporation. Corporations may be subject to foreign income taxes, and may be granted a foreign tax credit for such taxes.\n\nShareholders of most corporations are not taxed directly on corporate income, but must pay tax on dividends paid by the corporation. However, shareholders of S corporations and mutual funds are taxed currently on corporate income, and do not pay tax on dividends.\n\nCorporate income tax is imposed at the federal level on all entities treated as corporations (see Entity classification below), and by 47 states and the District of Columbia. Certain localities also impose corporate income tax. Corporate income tax is imposed on all domestic corporations and on foreign corporations having income or activities within the jurisdiction. For federal purposes, an entity treated as a corporation and organized under the laws of any state is a domestic corporation. For state purposes, entities organized in that state are treated as domestic, and entities organized outside that state are treated as foreign.\n\nSome types of corporations (S corporations, mutual funds, etc.) are not taxed at the corporate level, and their shareholders are taxed on the corporation's income as it is recognized. Corporations which are not S Corporations are known as C corporations.\n\nBefore 2018, domestic corporations were taxed on their worldwide income at the federal and state levels. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 changed this system so that subsidiaries are now taxed at the rate of the jurisdiction in which they are established. Corporate income tax is based on net taxable income as defined under federal or state law. Generally, taxable income for a corporation is gross income (business and possibly non-business receipts less cost of goods sold) less allowable tax deductions. Certain income, and some corporations, are subject to a tax exemption. Also, tax deductions for interest and certain other expenses paid to related parties are subject to limitations.\n\nCorporations may choose their tax year. Generally, a tax year must be 12 months or 52/53 weeks long. The tax year need not conform to the financial reporting year, and need not coincide with the calendar year, provided books are kept for the selected tax year. Corporations may change their tax year, which may require Internal Revenue Service consent. Most state income taxes are determined on the same tax year as the federal tax year.\nGroups of companies are permitted to file single returns for the members of a \"controlled group\" or \"unitary group\", known as consolidated returns, at the federal level, and are allowed or required to do so by certain states. The consolidated return reports the members' combined taxable incomes and computes a combined tax. Where related parties do not file a consolidated return in a jurisdiction, they are subject to transfer pricing rules. Under these rules, tax authorities may adjust prices charged between related parties.\n\nShareholders of corporations are taxed separately upon the distribution of corporate earnings and profits as a dividend. Tax rates on dividends are at present lower than on ordinary income for both corporate and individual shareholders. To ensure that shareholders pay tax on dividends, two withholding tax provisions may apply: withholding tax on foreign shareholders, and “backup withholding” on certain domestic shareholders.\n\nCorporations must file tax returns in all U.S. jurisdictions imposing an income tax. Such returns are a self-assessment of tax. Corporate income tax is payable in advance installments, or estimated payments, at the federal level and for many states.\n\nCorporations may be subject to withholding tax obligations upon making certain varieties of payments to others, including wages and distributions treated as dividends. These obligations are generally not the tax of the corporation, but the system may impose penalties on the corporation or its officers or employees for failing to withhold and pay over such taxes.\n\nNearly all of the states and some localities impose a tax on corporation income. The rules for determining this tax vary widely from state to state. Many of the states compute taxable income with reference to federal taxable income, with specific modifications. The states do not allow a tax deduction for income taxes, whether federal or state. Further, most states deny tax exemption for interest income that is tax exempt at the federal level.\n\nMost states tax domestic and foreign corporations on taxable income derived from business activities apportioned to the state on a formulary basis. Many states apply a \"throw back\" concept to tax domestic corporations on income not taxed by other states. Tax treaties do not apply to state taxes.\n\nUnder the U.S. Constitution, states are prohibited from taxing income of a resident of another state unless the connection with the taxing state reach a certain level (called “nexus”). Most states do not tax non-business income of out of state corporations. Since the tax must be fairly apportioned, the states and localities compute income of out of state corporations (including those in foreign countries) taxable in the state by applying formulary apportionment to the total business taxable income of the corporation. Many states use a formula based on ratios of property, payroll, and sales within the state to those items outside the state.\n\nThe first federal income tax was enacted in 1861, and expired in 1872, amid constitutional challenges. A corporate income tax was enacted in 1894, but a key aspect of it was shortly held unconstitutional. In 1909, Congress enacted an excise tax on corporations based on income. After ratification of the Sixteenth amendment to the U.S. Constitution, this became the corporate provisions of the federal income tax. Amendments to various provisions affecting corporations have been in most or all revenue acts since. Corporate tax provisions are incorporated in Title 26 of the United States Code, known as the Internal Revenue Code. The present rate of tax on corporate income was adopted in the Tax Reform Act of 1986.\n\nIn 2010, corporate tax revenue constituted about 9% of all federal revenues or 1.3% of GDP.\n\nBusiness entities may elect to be treated as corporations taxed at the entity and member levels or as \"flow through\" entities taxed only at the member level. However, entities organized as corporations under U.S. state laws and certain foreign entities are treated, \"per se\", as corporations, with no optional election. The Internal Revenue Service issued the so-called “check-the-box” regulations in 1997 under which entities may make such choice by filing Form 8832. Absent such election, default classifications for domestic and foreign business entities, combined with voluntary entity elections to opt out of the default classifications (except in the case of “\"per se\" corporations” (as defined below)). If an entity not treated as a corporation has more than one equity owner and at least one equity owner does not have limited liability (e.g., a general partner), it will be classified as a partnership (i.e., a pass-through), and if the entity has a single equity owner and the single owner does not have limited liability protection, it will be treated as a disregarded entity (i.e., a pass-through).\n\nSome entities treated as corporations may make other elections that enable corporate income to be taxed only at the shareholder level, and not at the corporate level. Such entities are treated similarly to partnerships. The income of the entity is not taxed at the corporate level, and the members must pay tax on their share of the entity's income. These include:\n\nDeterminations of what is taxable and at what rate are made at the federal level based on U.S. tax law. Many but not all states incorporate federal law principles in their tax laws to some extent. Federal taxable income equals gross income (gross receipts and other income less cost of goods sold) less tax deductions. Gross income of a corporation and business deductions are determined in much the same manner as for individuals. All income of a corporation is subject to the same federal tax rate. However, corporations may reduce other federal taxable income by a net capital loss and certain deductions are more limited. Certain deductions are available only to corporations. These include deductions for dividends received and amortization of organization expenses. Some states tax business income of a corporation differently than nonbusiness income.\n\nPrinciples for recognizing income and deductions may differ from financial accounting principles. Key areas of difference include differences in the timing of income or deduction, tax exemption for certain income, and disallowance or limitation of certain tax deductions. IRS rules require that these differences be disclosed in considerable detail for non-small corporations on Schedule M-3 to Form 1120.\n\nAfter the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, on December 20, 2017, the corporate tax rate has been changed to a flat 21% starting January 1, 2018.\n\nThe adjacent table lists the tax rates on corporate income applied by each state, but not by local governments within states. Because state and local taxes are deductible expenses for federal income tax purposes, the effective tax rate in each state is not a simple addition of federal and state tax rates.\n\nAlthough a state may not levy a corporate income tax, they may impose other taxes that are similar. For example, Washington state does not have an income tax but levies a B&O (business and occupation tax) which is arguably a larger burden because the B&O tax is calculated as a percentage of revenue rather than a percentage of net income, like the corporate income tax. This means even loss-making enterprises are required to pay the tax.\n\nCorporations, like other businesses, may be eligible for various tax credits which reduce federal, state or local income tax. The largest of these by dollar volume is the federal foreign tax credit. This credit is allowed to all taxpayers for income taxes paid to foreign countries. The credit is limited to that part of federal income tax before other credits generated by foreign source taxable income. The credit is intended to mitigate taxation of the same income to the same taxpayer by two or more countries, and has been a feature of the U.S. system since 1918. Other credits include credits for certain wage payments, credits for investments in certain types of assets including certain motor vehicles, credits for use of alternative fuels and off-highway vehicle use, natural resource related credits, and others. See, \"e.g.\", the Research & Experimentation Tax Credit.\n\nDeferral is one of the main features of the worldwide tax system that allows U.S. multinational companies to delay paying taxes on foreign profits. Under U.S. tax law, companies are not required to pay U.S. tax on their foreign subsidiaries’ profits for many years, even indefinitely until the earnings are returned to U.S. Therefore, it is one of the main reasons that U.S. corporations pay low taxes, even though the corporate tax rate in the U.S. is one of the highest rates (35%) in the world. The corporate tax rate will change to a flat (21%) on January 1, 2018, permanently.\n\nDeferral is beneficial for U.S. companies to raise the cost of capital relatively to their foreign-based competitors. Their foreign subsidiaries can reinvest their earnings without incurring additional tax that allows them to grow faster. It is also valuable to U.S. corporations with global operations, especially for corporations with income in low-tax countries. Some of the largest and most profitable U.S. corporations pay exceedingly low tax rates through their use of subsidiaries in so-called tax haven countries. Eighty-three of the United States’s 100 biggest public companies have subsidiaries in countries that are listed as tax havens or financial privacy jurisdictions, according to the Government Accountability Office.\n\nHowever, tax deferral encourages U.S. companies to make job-creating investments offshore even if similar investments in the United States can be more profitable, absent tax considerations. Furthermore, companies try to use accounting techniques to record profits offshore by any way, even if they keep actual investment and jobs in the United States. This explains why U.S. corporations report their largest profits in low-tax countries like the Netherlands, Luxembourg, and Bermuda, though clearly that is not where most real economic activity occurs.\n\nA tax deduction is allowed at the federal, state and local levels for interest expense incurred by a corporation in carrying out its business activities. Where such interest is paid to related parties, such deduction may be limited. The classification of instruments as debt on which interest is deductible or as equity with respect to which distributions are not deductible is highly complex and based on court-developed law. The courts have considered 26 factors in deciding whether an instrument is debt or equity, and no single factor predominates.\n\nFederal tax rules also limit the deduction of interest expense paid by corporations to foreign shareholders based on a complex calculation designed to limit the deduction to 50% of cash flow. Some states have other limitations on related party payments of interest and royalties.\n\nU.S. rules provide that certain corporate events are not taxable to corporations or shareholders. Significant restrictions and special rules often apply. The rules related to such transactions are quite complex, and exist primarily at the federal level. Many of the states follow federal tax treatment for such events.\n\nThe formation of a corporation by controlling corporate or non-corporate shareholder(s) is generally a nontaxable event. Generally, in tax free formations the tax attributes of assets and liabilities are transferred to the new corporation along with such assets and liabilities.\n\nExample: John and Mary are United States residents who operate a business. They decide to incorporate for business reasons. They transfer assets of the business to Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation of which they are the sole shareholders, subject to accrued liabilities of the business, solely in exchange for common shares of Newco. This transfer should not generally cause gain or loss recognition for John, Mary, or Newco. Newco assumes John and Mary's tax basis in the assets it acquires. If on the other hand Newco also assumes a bank loan in excess of the basis of the assets transferred less the accrued liabilities, John and Mary will recognize taxable gain for such excess.\n\nCorporations may merge or acquire other corporations in a manner treated as nontaxable to either of the corporations and/or to their shareholders. Generally, significant restrictions apply if tax free treatment is to be obtained. For example, Bigco acquires all of the shares of Smallco from Smallco shareholders in exchange solely for Bigco shares. This acquisition is not taxable to Smallco or its shareholders under U.S. tax law if certain requirements are met, even if Smallco is then liquidated into or merged with Bigco.\n\nIn addition, corporations may change key aspects of their legal identity, capitalization, or structure in a tax free manner. Examples of reorganizations that may be tax free include mergers, liquidations of subsidiaries, share for share exchanges, exchanges of shares for assets, changes in form or place of organization, and recapitalizations.\n\nAdvance tax planning might mitigate tax risks resulting from a business reorganization or potentially enhance tax savings.\n\nShareholders of corporations are subject to corporate or individual income tax when corporate earnings are distributed. Such distribution of earnings is generally referred to as a dividend.\n\nDividends received by other corporations may be taxed at reduced rates, or exempt from taxation, if the dividends received deduction applies. Dividends received by individuals (if the dividend is a \"qualified dividend\") are taxed at reduced rates. Exceptions to shareholder taxation apply to certain nonroutine distributions, including distributions in liquidation of an 80% subsidiary or in complete termination of a shareholder's interest.\n\nIf a corporation makes a distribution in a non-cash form, it must pay tax on any gain in value of the property distributed.\n\nThe United States does not generally require withholding tax on the payment of dividends to shareholders. However, withholding tax is required if the shareholder is not a U.S. citizen or resident or U.S. corporation, or in some other circumstances (see Tax withholding in the United States).\n\nU.S. corporations are permitted to distribute amounts in excess of earnings under the laws of most states under which they may be organized. A distribution by a corporation to shareholders is treated as a dividend to the extent of earnings and profits (E&P), a tax concept similar to retained earnings. E&P is current taxable income, with significant adjustments, plus prior E&P reduced by distributions of E&P. Adjustments include depreciation differences under MACRS, add-back of most tax exempt income, and deduction of many non-deductible expenses (e.g., 50% of meals and entertainment). Corporate distributions in excess of E&P are generally treated as a return of capital to the shareholders.\n\nThe liquidation of a corporation is generally treated as an exchange of a capital asset under the Internal Revenue Code. If a shareholder bought stock for $300 and receives $500 worth of property from a corporation in a liquidation, that shareholder would recognize a capital gain of $200. An exception is when a parent corporation liquidates a subsidiary, which is tax-free so long as the parent owns more than 80% of the subsidiary. There are certain anti-abuse rules to avoid the engineering of losses in corporate liquidations.\n\nThe United States taxes foreign (i.e., non-U.S.) corporations differently than domestic corporations. Foreign corporations generally are taxed only on business income when the income is effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business (i.e., in a branch). This tax is imposed at the same rate as the tax on business income of a resident corporation.\n\nThe U.S. also imposes a branch profits tax on foreign corporations with a U.S. branch, to mimic the dividend withholding tax which would be payable if the business was conducted in a U.S. subsidiary corporation and profits were remitted to the foreign parent as dividends. The branch profits tax is imposed at the time profits are remitted or deemed remitted outside the U.S.\n\nIn addition, foreign corporations are subject to withholding tax at 30% on dividends, interest, royalties, and certain other income. Tax treaties may reduce or eliminate this tax. This tax applies to a \"dividend equivalent amount,\" which is the corporation's effectively connected earnings and profits for the year, less investments the corporation makes in its U.S. assets (money and adjusted bases of property connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business). The tax is imposed even if there is no distribution.\n\nCorporations 80% or more owned by a common parent corporation may file a consolidated return for federal and some state income taxes. These returns include all income, deductions, and credits of all members of the controlled group, generally expressed without intercompany eliminations. Some states allow or require a combined or consolidated return for U.S. members of a \"unitary\" group under common control and in related businesses. Certain transactions between group members may not be recognized until the occurrence of events for other members. For example, if Company A sells goods to sister Company B, the profit on the sale is deferred until Company B uses or sells the goods. All members of a consolidated group must use the same tax year.\n\nTransactions between a corporation and related parties are subject to potential adjustment by tax authorities. These adjustments may be applied to both U.S. and foreign related parties, and to individuals, corporations, partnerships, estates, and trusts.\n\nThe United States federal Alternative Minimum Tax was eliminated in 2018.\n\nCorporations may also be subject to additional taxes in certain circumstances. These include taxes on excess accumulated undistributed earnings and personal holding companies and restrictions on graduated rates for personal service corporations.\n\nSome states, such as New Jersey, impose alternative taxes based on measures other than taxable income. Among such measures are gross income, pipeline revenues, gross receipts, and various asset or capital measures. In addition, some states impose a tax on capital of corporations or on shares issued and outstanding. The U. S. state of Michigan previously taxed businesses on an alternative base that did not allow compensation of employees as a tax deduction and allowed full deduction of the cost of production assets upon acquisition.\n\nCorporations subject to U.S. tax must file federal and state income tax returns. Different tax returns are required at the federal and some state levels for different types of corporations or corporations engaged in specialized businesses. The United States has 13 variations on the basic Form 1120 for S corporations, insurance companies, Domestic International Sales Corporations, foreign corporations, and other entities. The structure of the forms and the imbedded schedules vary by type of form.\n\nUnited States federal corporate tax returns require both computation of taxable income from components thereof and reconciliation of taxable income to financial statement income. Corporations with assets exceeding $10 million must complete a detailed 3 page reconciliation on Schedule M-3 indicating which differences are permanent (i.e., do not reverse, such as disallowed expenses or tax exempt interest) and which are temporary (e.g., differences in when income or expense is recognized for book and tax purposes).\n\nSome state corporate tax returns have significant imbedded or attached schedules related to features of the state's tax system that differ from the federal system.\n\nPreparation of non-simple corporate tax returns can be time consuming. For example, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service states that the average time needed to complete Form 1120-S, for privately held companies electing flow through status, is over 56 hours, not including recordkeeping time.\n\nFederal corporate tax returns for most types of corporations are due by the 15th day of the third month following the tax year (March 15 for calendar year). State corporate tax return due dates vary, but most are due either on the same date or one month after the federal due date. Extensions of time to file are routinely granted.\n\nPenalties may be imposed at the federal and state levels for late filing or non-filing of corporate income tax returns. In addition, other substantial penalties may apply with respect to failures related to returns and tax return computations. Intentional failure to file or intentional filing of incorrect returns may result in criminal penalties to those involved.\n\n\nIRS Publication 542, Corporations\n\nStandard tax texts\nTreatises\n"}
{"id": "7166163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7166163", "title": "Edmund McIlhenny", "text": "Edmund McIlhenny\n\nEdmund McIlhenny (; 1815 – 25 November 1890) was an American businessman and manufacturer who invented Tabasco brand pepper sauce.\n\nBorn in Hagerstown, Maryland, in 1815, Edmund McIlhenny moved to New Orleans, Louisiana, around 1840, finding work in the Louisiana banking industry. He was of Irish and Scottish descent, his great grandparents immigrated to America from County Donegal [citation needed]. By the eve of the American Civil War, he had acquired a small fortune and became an independent bank owner.\n\nOn June 30, 1859, he married Mary Eliza Avery. They had eight children.\n\nDuring the Civil War, McIlhenny fled with his in-laws, the Avery family, to Texas, where he served as a civilian employee of the Confederate army, first as a clerk in a commissary office, then as a financial agent for the paymaster.\n\nThe South's economic collapse after its defeat ruined McIlhenny, who now lived with his in-laws in their plantation house on Avery Island, Louisiana. It was there that McIlhenny tended the family garden, where, according to tradition, he grew a variety of fruits and vegetables, including tabasco peppers.\n\nBetween 1866 and 1868, McIlhenny, probably inspired by an earlier sauce introduced by New Orleans-area entrepreneur Maunsel White, experimented with making a sauce from the peppers in the Avery family garden. In 1868 he grew his first commercial pepper crop, and the next year sold the first bottles of his new product, which he called \"Tabasco brand pepper sauce\".\n\nIn 1870 McIlhenny obtained letters patent for his invention, which he packaged in cork-top two-ounce bottles with diamond logo labels very similar in appearance to those in present-day use.\n\nAt first McIlhenny sold the product mainly along the Gulf Coast in places including New Orleans, New Iberia, Louisiana, and Galveston, Texas. By the early 1870s, however, he had broken into larger markets, such as New York City, Philadelphia, and Boston, helped by major nineteenth century food manufacturer and distributor E. C. Hazard and Company.\n\nMcIlhenny died in 1890, and apparently did not consider his creation of Tabasco sauce to have been a particularly notable accomplishment. Indeed, he made no mention of Tabasco sauce in an autobiographical sketch composed toward the end of his life, nor was it mentioned in his obituaries.\n\nRegardless, his successors, sons John Avery McIlhenny and Edward Avery McIlhenny, realized that their father had created a foundation on which they could build a larger family business, and they shortly expanded and modernized the manufacturing process. Today each carton of Tabasco sauce bears a facsimile of McIlhenny's signature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1318771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1318771", "title": "Eli Broad", "text": "Eli Broad\n\nEli Broad (; born June 6, 1933) is an American entrepreneur and philanthropist. He is the only person to build two Fortune 500 companies in different industries (KB Home and SunAmerica). As of October 2015, Forbes ranked Broad the 65th wealthiest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of $7.4 billion.\n\nBroad was born in 1933 in the Bronx, New York, the only child of Lithuanian Jewish immigrant parents who met in New York. His father worked as a house painter, and his mother worked as a dressmaker. His family moved to Detroit, Michigan when he was six years old. In Detroit, his father was a union organizer, and owned five-and-dime stores. Broad attended Detroit Public Schools and graduated from Detroit Central High School in 1951.\n\nBroad attended Michigan State University, majoring in accounting with a minor in economics and graduating \"cum laude\" in 1954. Among the jobs Broad held in college were selling women's shoes, selling garbage disposals door-to-door, and working as a drill press operator at Packard Motor, where he was a member of United Auto Workers. The same year, 21-year-old Broad married 18-year-old Edythe \"Edye\" Lawson.\n\nBroad became the youngest Michigan resident to attain the credentials of Certified Public Accountant (CPA), a record he held until 2010. Broad worked as an accountant for two years and taught night classes at the Detroit Institute of Technology as an assistant professor of accounting in 1956. Wanting to work on his own, he founded his own accounting firm and was offered office space by the husband of his wife's cousin, Donald Bruce Kaufman, in return for doing the books for Kaufman's small homebuilding and subcontracting business.\n\nDoing the accounting for Kaufman's small business led Broad to decide to enter homebuilding himself. In 1956, Broad and Kaufman decided to partner and build homes together. Borrowing $12,500 from his wife's parents, Broad put up half the capital in their first venture together, building two model homes in the Northeast Detroit suburbs where a new generation of first-time home buyers were flocking. By streamlining the construction process and eliminating basements, offering a carport instead, they could price the houses so the monthly mortgage would be less than the rent for a two-bedroom apartment. Kaufman and Broad christened this model the \"Award Winner\" and priced it at $13,700. After one weekend, seventeen were sold and within two years, Kaufman and Broad had built 600 homes in the Detroit suburbs. In 1960, fearing that the Detroit economy was too dependent on the automotive business, they moved to Phoenix, Arizona. In 1961, Kaufman and Broad Home Corporation (now KB Home) went public on the American Stock Exchange. In 1963, Broad moved the company to Los Angeles. Soon after, Kaufman retired and he and his wife Glorya Kaufman went on to become noted philanthropists. By 1969, KB Home was the first homebuilder listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In 1974, Broad stepped down as CEO.\n\nIn 1971, Broad acquired Sun Life Insurance Company of America, a family-owned insurance company founded in Baltimore in 1890, for $52 million. Broad transformed Sun Life into the retirement savings powerhouse SunAmerica. In 1999, he sold SunAmerica to the American International Group (AIG) for $18 billion. Broad continued as CEO of SunAmerica until 1999, when he left to focus on philanthropy full-time.\n\nIn 2012, Broad's first book, \"The Art of Being Unreasonable: Lessons in Unconventional Thinking\", was published by Wiley and Sons and debuted as a \"New York Times\", \"Wall Street Journal\", \"USA Today\", and \"Washington Post\" bestseller.\n\nEli and Edythe Broad created The Broad Foundations to advance entrepreneurship for the public good in education, science and the arts. The Broad Foundations, which include The Eli and Edythe Broad Foundation and The Broad Art Foundation, have assets of $3 billion.\n\nIn 2010, the Broads announced their participation in \"The Giving Pledge,\" a commitment for wealthy individuals to give at least half of their wealth to charity. The Broads personally committed to giving 75% of their wealth away.\n\nIn 2017, Broad announced his retirement from The Eli and Edythe Broad Foundation, passing responsibility to its president, Gerun Riley. Broad said he would remain as a trustee of the foundation, and continue to serve on the Board of The Broad museum. Broad said he was in good health and felt like it was time to \"step back\".\n\nThe stated mission of the Eli and Edythe Broad Foundation's education work is to ensure that every student in an urban public school has the opportunity to succeed. The foundation has made $589 million in grants since it launched in 1999.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2014, The Broad Foundation awarded an annual $1 million Broad Prize for Urban Education. The Broad Prize recognized the large urban school districts in America that have made the greatest improvement in student achievement while narrowing achievement gaps among low-income students and students of color. The Broad Prize has awarded $16 million in college scholarships to high school seniors since 2002. In 2012, the foundation launched the Broad Prize for Public Charter Schools, which awards $250,000 to the top charter management organization in the country. In 2015, the foundation announced that it was suspending the Broad Prize for Urban Education.\n\nThe Broad Center in Los Angeles, California, is a nonprofit organization that seeks to prepare strong leaders of public school systems through The Broad Superintendents Academy (unaccredited) and The Broad Residency in Urban Education (accredited). It is wholly funded by the Broad Foundation.\n\nBroad has been an influential figure in the art world since 1973 and has had a particular focus on the cultural life of Los Angeles.\nBroad was the founding chairman of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles in 1979 and chaired the board until 1984. He recruited the founding director of the museum and negotiated the acquisition of the Panza Collection for the museum.\n\nIn 2008, The Broad Foundation gave a $30 million challenge grant to rebuild the museum’s endowment and to provide exhibition support. The Foundation's donation was contingent on the museum remaining independent and not merging with Los Angeles County Museum of Art.\n\nBroad is a life trustee of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA). In 2003, The Broad Foundation gave $60 million to the museum as part of its renovation campaign to create the Broad Contemporary Art Museum and for an art acquisition fund.\n\nThe Broads provided the lead gift of $6 million to the Los Angeles Opera to bring Richard Wagner's opera cycle \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" to Los Angeles for the 2009–10 season. In June 2013, the Broads gave $7 million to continue funding the Eli and Edythe Broad general director at L.A. Opera, currently occupied by Plácido Domingo.\n\nThe Broads contributed $10 million in 2008 for a programming endowment for a state-of-the-art music and performing arts center at Santa Monica College, The Eli and Edythe Broad Stage, and an adjacent black box performance space, The Edye.\n\nIn total, the Broads have given roughly $1 billion to Los Angeles art institutions. Broad now calls Los Angeles a \"cultural capital of the world\".\n\nIn August 2010, Eli Broad announced formally that he would build a contemporary art museum in Downtown Los Angeles. Diller Scofidio + Renfro were chosen through an architectural competition to design the approximately 120,000-square-foot museum, which includes exhibition space, offices and a parking garage.\n\nIn February 2015, a public preview of a special installation attracted some 3,500 visitors while the museum was still under construction. The museum opened by Broad and his wife on Sunday, September 20, 2015. To date, it has received more than 1.2 million visitors.\n\nBroad founded the Grand Avenue Committee, which coordinates and oversees development of Grand Avenue in downtown Los Angeles. In 1996, Broad and Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan led the fundraising campaign to build the Frank Gehry-designed Walt Disney Concert Hall, which opened in October 2003. Broad was instrumental in securing the $50 million deposit from the project developer that opened Grand Park in summer 2012.\n\nBroad’s first civic board membership and significant investment in education was a $10 million commitment to Pitzer College in 1970. He was eventually named chairman of the board.\n\nIn 1991, Broad endowed the Eli Broad College of Business and the Eli Broad Graduate School of Management with $20 million for a full-time MBA program at his alma mater, Michigan State University. The couple gave $5 million to endow the Eli and Edythe L. Broad Dean of Business.\n\nIn 2000, Broad gave $23.2 million for the Broad Art Center at UCLA, designed by Richard Meier.\nEli and Edythe Broad donated $28 million to Michigan State University for the construction of the Eli and Edythe Broad Art Museum, designed by Pritzker Architecture Prize-winning architect Zaha Hadid. The museum opened in November 2012.\n\nThe Broads’ investments in scientific and medical research focus on three areas: human genomics, stem cell research and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).\n\nIn 2001, the Broads created the Broad Medical Research Program to fund innovative research to advance the treatment of IBD.\n\nIn 2003, Eli and Edythe Broad gave the $100 million founding gift to create The Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard. The following year, they gave another $100 million, and in 2009, they gave another $400 million to create an endowment to make the institute permanent. The Broads announced Nov. 14, 2013, they were giving an additional $100 million to the institute. The Broad Institute is now the leading genomic medicine institute, employing 2,000 people with an annual research budget of $287 million. To date, the Broads have given $800 million to the Institute.\n\nThe Eli and Edythe Broad Center for Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research at USC is the product of a public-private partnership between voter-created California Institute of Regenerative Medicine, the Keck School of Medicine of USC and the Eli and Edythe Broad Foundation, which donated $30 million in 2006. In 2007, the Broads also donated $20 million to the UCLA Stem Cell Institute. One year later, they gave a major gift to the University of California, San Francisco for the new headquarters of the Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research, which opened in February 2011. Broad is also a member of the California Institute of Technology Board of Trustees where he funded the Broad Center for the Biological Sciences. In 2009, the Broads gave $5 million to fund the Joint Center for Translational Medicine at Caltech and UCLA.\n\nIn August 2013, Broad donated $250,000 to oppose the recalls of Colorado Senate President John Morse and Sen. Angela Giron, who were being recalled for their support of gun control measures, including a ban on magazines of 15 rounds or more.\n\nBroad’s interest in art began in 1973 with his family’s first acquisition of a Van Gogh drawing, entitled \"Cabanes a Saintes-Maries\" (1888). Art collector and MCA executive Taft Schreiber became his mentor. The Broads' early acquisitions included notable works by Miró, Picasso and Matisse. Eventually, the pair began to concentrate on post–World War II art.\n\nEli and Edythe Broad established The Broad Art Foundation in 1984 with the goal of making their extensive contemporary art collection more accessible to the public; to date The Foundation has made more than 8,000 loans to more than 500 museums and university galleries worldwide.\n\nThe Broads have two collections—a personal collection with nearly 600 works and The Broad Art Foundation's collection, which has approximately 1,500 works Modern and contemporary art. In January 2008, the Broads decided that works in their personal collection would ultimately go to their foundation to make the artwork accessible to the public through the foundation’s loan program.\n\nSome of the best-known works are by contemporary artists including:\n\n\nFrom 2004 to 2009, Broad served as a regent of the Smithsonian Institution by appointment of the U.S. Congress and the president. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and in 1994 was named Chevalier in the National Order of the Legion of Honor by the Republic of France. Broad serves on the board of the Future Generation Art Prize. He received the Carnegie Medal of Philanthropy in 2007 and the David Rockefeller Award from the Museum of Modern Art in March 2009. In October 2013, the Broads were awarded the William E. Simon Prize for Philanthropic Leadership by Philanthropy Roundtable.\n\nIn 2013, Eli Broad was named by the California attorney general as a contributor to Americans for Job Security, a Virginia trade association. The money sent to Americans for Job Security was intended for \"issue advocacy,\" meaning advertising that doesn't expressly urge Californians to vote one way or another. However, Americans for Job Security sent some of their donations to a Phoenix group, Americans for Responsible Leadership, which provided it to a small business action committee that opposed Proposition 30. It is unclear whether Eli Broad was aware that his 2013 donation would be used in this way, since he had stated in 2012 that he supported higher taxes on the wealthy.\n\nIn 2015, the Los Angeles Times obtained a secret 44-page proposal drafted by the Eli and Edythe Broad Foundation and other charter advocates (including several other billionaires) that was designed to charterize 50% of LA public schools. According to one unnamed critic at portside.org, such an outcome would \"do away with democratically controlled, publicly accountable education in LA.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2047224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2047224", "title": "Evaporating Cloud", "text": "Evaporating Cloud\n\nThe Evaporating Cloud is one of the six Thinking Processes in the Theory of Constraints. The Evaporating Cloud (EC) - also referred to in the literature as \"the cloud\", or as a \"conflict resolution diagram\" - is a logical diagram representing a problem that has no obvious satisfactory solution.\n\nThe most commonly used of the TOC tools, the EC was designed to address conﬂict or dilemma situations (trade-off situations where there is no acceptable compromise) by diagramming the logic behind the conflict and methodically examining the assumptions behind the logic.\nThe EC has a set format with five boxes, labelled A, B, C, D, D’, that are usually laid out as follows:\n\nThe boxes represent two opposing \"wants\" that represent the conflict (D, D’), the \"needs\" that each want is trying to satisfy (B, C), and a common \"objective\" or goal (A) that both needs are trying to fulfil.\n\nThe lines or arrows connecting the nodes represent the rationale or causal assumptions that are used to link the nodes. When communicating the cloud, the arrows should be read as “in order to” or “because” or “so that”. For example: \"“In order to achieve A we require B because there is no way we can have A without B.”\" Or: \"“There is no way we can have D and have D’ \"(read as \"D-prime\")\" at the same time.”\"\n\nAccording to Scheinkopf (2002) the Evaporating Cloud is so named in honor of Richard Bach. In Bach's 1977 book \"Illusions\", the main characters remove storm clouds from the sky by thinking them away.\nThe Evaporating Cloud tool is intended to similarly \"vapourize\" difficult problems by resolving an underlying conflict.\n\nThe general process for applying an EC to problem solving is described by Cohen (2010) as follows:\n\nClouds are \"built\" by filling in the appropriate boxes with statements about the situation. Both the wording of the statements and the sequence of filling the boxes can be important. Below is a guide to the recommended sequence and questions for building \"Day-to-day Conflict\" or \"Inner Dilemma\" clouds.\nDifferent types of problems have slightly different requirements when it comes to documenting and communicating the underlying conflict. Below is a summary of different types of problems, and the suggested sequence for building and communicating the cloud.\nGoldratt has illustrated the use of the evaporating cloud technique in a discussion of the Economic production quantity model. The prerequisite wants are to \"run large batches\" (D) and yet to \"run small batches\" (D’). These are clearly in conflict. The required need that D is trying to meet is to \"reduce setup cost\" (B), whereas the D’ prerequisite needs to \"reduce carrying cost per unit\" (C). Both requirements are aimed at the objective (A): to \"reduce cost per unit\".\nFedurko (2011) recommends checking the logic of the EC by reading the logical statements aloud, in the following sequence:\n\nAccording to Fedurko,\n\nGoldratt claims that each of the logical connections in the EC represent an (often hidden) assumption.\n\nThe assumptions behind the above connections can be surfaced by again reading the statements with a \"because\" clause added. For example, Goldratt surfaces the following assumptions behind the 2nd statement in the example EC:\nAnd again, with the 5th statement:\n\nThe second assumption is challenged by distinguishing between \"production batch\" size (between setups) and \"transfer batch\" size (between workstations), and so allowing different sized batches for different purposes.\n\nThe Core Conflict Cloud is an Evaporating Cloud that emerges from analysis of a current reality tree (CRT), which is one of the Thinking Processes. The CRT provides a way for analyzing many system or organizational problems at once, treating them as symptoms of a single core problem.\nIf an easy solution to such a core problem has not already been implemented, it is likely there is some conflict in the organization that is blocking implementation. The role of the Core Conflict Cloud is to address this inherent conflict that is preventing the sorting out of the core problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "52301247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52301247", "title": "Ferdinand Essandja", "text": "Ferdinand Essandja\n\nFerdinand Essandja (sometimes Fernand Essendja or Ferdinand Esandja) was a Congolese politician and businessman. He was the chairman of the \"Parti de l’Unité Congolaise\" in 1959. He attended the Belgo-Congolese Round Table Conference in early 1960 as a delegate of the \"Parti National du Progrès\" (PNP) to participate in negotiations for the Belgian Congo's independence. At one point he served as the mayor of the Barumbu commune of Léopoldville. In June 1961 Essendja became the managing director of Air Congo, the flag carrier of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. By 1967 he was the vice president of company.\n"}
{"id": "43307721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43307721", "title": "Global Innovation through Science and Technology initiative", "text": "Global Innovation through Science and Technology initiative\n\nThe Global Innovation through Science and Technology initiative (GIST) is a U.S. government program on innovation and entrepreneurship. The program assists businesspeople to establish startups. GIST participants in 135 emerging economies can develop skills, build networks, find mentors, and access financing through a combination of in-country training, a pitch competition, interactive online programming, and direct connections to U.S. experts. GIST helps create conditions for successful local entrepreneurship ecosystems and enables global youth to develop local solutions to local problems. GIST is also one of the key programs under President Obama's SPARK Initiative, an initiative under which programs are selected to represent the best work being done by the U.S. Government to advance entrepreneurship around the world.\n\nSince 2011, GIST has engaged more than 2.8 million innovators and entrepreneurs worldwide and mentored over 5,000 startups that have generated more than $110 million in revenue. GIST is a partnership led by the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, with implementation of programs by Venturewell and the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).\n\nThe GIST programs were announced at the 2011 conference on Economic Development through Science and Technology Innovation in Rabat, Morocco attended by U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs Dr. Kerri-Ann Jones. This conference was the third and final consultative meeting to develop high impact engagement opportunities. Previous meetings were held in Alexandria, Egypt and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The GIST initiative exemplifies a science and technology innovation partnership that U.S. President Barack Obama called for in a 2009 speech at Cairo University.\n\nGIST assists entrepeneurs in 135 emerging economies through its Global Online Innovation Community, including online programming and mentorship; in-country training programs, the GIST Startup Boot Camps, GIST Ideation Boot Camps and GIST Villages; and the annual GIST Tech-I Global Pitch Competition.\n\nGISTNetwork is a government program led by the Department of State that provides a user-driven online resource to help young science and technology entrepreneurs in emerging economies build viable startups. GISTNetwork connects entrepreneurs to peers, mentors, experts, and financing both globally and within their communities.\n\nGISTNetwork’s online community provides: Mentors from top U.S. universities, Silicon Valley startups and local communities around the world; live and on-demand programming, including pages focused on specific local communities; and access to international angel investors and venture capitalists and a meeting place to find entrepreneurial team members.\n\nGIST online programming provides in-country entrepreneurs with direct online access to U.S. businesspeople and academics. The two key online programs are the GIST TechConnect and GIST Guru Series.\n\nGIST in-country programs nurture the next generation of innovators and entrepreneurs through direct, on-the-ground training. Top U.S. and in-country leaders teach and mentor aspiring entrepreneurs, who also develop financial know-how and access to capital that allow them to advance their science and technology ventures with skill and confidence. There are three main in-country programs: GIST Ideation Boot Camps; GIST Startup Boot Camps; and GIST Villages.\n\nThe GIST Tech-I Global Pitch Competition is an annual competition for science and technology entrepreneurs from emerging economies worldwide. Participants produce videos to pitch their ideas and startups, which are reviewed first by a panel of experts and then by the online voting public. Finalists receive a trip to the Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES), three months of one-to-one mentoring, and the chance to win seed capital. Through two days of intensive training and pitching their ventures at the GES, GIST Tech-I finalists make connections and gain international exposure.\n\nSince 2011, innovators from over 100 emerging economies have showcased their science and technology ventures through GIST Tech-I Global Pitch Competitions, with over one million votes from the online voting public.\n\nThe first Tech-I competition occurred in 2011 in Istanbul, Turkey. Notable Tech-I finalists have included Nermin Sa'd, founder of Hanadisayat.net from Jordan; and Natali Ardianto, founder and COO of Tiket.com from Indonesia.\n\nThe Tech-I Competition of the GIST initiative is implemented by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).\n"}
{"id": "2777609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2777609", "title": "History of capitalism", "text": "History of capitalism\n\nThe history of capitalism has diverse and much debated roots, but fully-fledged capitalism is generally thought to have emerged in north-west Europe, especially in the Low Countries (mainly present-day Flanders and Netherlands) and Britain, in the sixteenth to seventeenth centuries. Over the following centuries, capital has been accumulated by a variety of different methods, in a variety of scales, and associated with a great deal of variation in the concentration of economic power and wealth, and capitalism has gradually become the dominant economic system throughout the world. Much of the history of the past five hundred years is, therefore, concerned with the development of capitalism in its various forms.\n\nIt is an ongoing debate within the fields of economics and sociology as to what the past, current and future stages of capitalism consist of. While ongoing disagreement about exact stages exists, many economists have posited the following general states. These states are not mutually exclusive and do not represent a fixed order of historical change, but do represent a broadly chronological trend.\n\nThe processes by which capitalism came about, evolved, and spread, are the subject of extensive research and debate among historians. Debates sometimes circle around how \"capitalism\" is defined, but a significant body of work has been able to bring substantive historical data to bear on key questions. Key parameters of debate include: how far capitalism is a natural human behaviour and how far it arises from specific historical circumstances; whether its origins lie in towns and trade or in rural property relations; the role of class conflict; the role of the state; how far it is a distinctively European innovation; its relationship with European imperialism; whether technological change is a driver or merely an epiphenomenon of capitalism; and whether or not it is the most beneficial way to organise human societies.\n\nThe historiography of capitalism can be divided into two broad schools. One is associated with economic liberalism, with the eighteenth-century economist Adam Smith as a foundational figure, and one with Marxism, drawing particular inspiration from the nineteenth-century economist Karl Marx. Liberals tend to view capitalism as an expression of natural human behaviours which have been in evidence for millennia, and the most beneficial way of promoting human wellbeing. They tend to see capitalism as originating in trade and commerce, and freeing people to exercise their entrepreneurial natures. Marxists tend to view capitalism as a historically unusual system of relationships between classes, which could be replaced by other economic systems which would serve human wellbeing better. They tend to see capitalism as originating in more powerful people taking control of the means of production, and compelling others to sell their labour as a commodity. For these reasons, much of the work on the history of capitalism has been broadly Marxist.\n\nThe origins of capitalism have been much debated (and depend partly on how the defining features of capitalism are defined). The traditional account, originating in classical eighteenth-century liberal economic thought and still often articulated, is the 'commercialization model'. This sees capitalism originating in trade. Since evidence for trade is found even in palaeolithic culture, it can be seen as natural to human societies. In this reading, capitalism emerged from earlier trade once merchants had acquired sufficient wealth (referred to as 'primitive capital') to begin investing in increasingly productive technology. This account tends to see capitalism as a natural continuation of trade, arising when people's natural entrepreneurialism was freed from the constraints of feudalism, partly by urbanization. Thus it traces capitalism to early forms of merchant capitalism practiced in Western Europe during the Middle Ages. \n\nThe role of Dutch-speaking lands, especially present-day Flanders and the Netherlands (in particular modern-day North Holland and South Holland), in the history of capitalism has been a much discussed and researched subject. Capitalism began to develop into its modern form during the Early Modern period in the Protestant countries of North-Western Europe, especially the Netherlands (Dutch Republic) and England: traders in Amsterdam and London created the first chartered joint-stock companies driving up commerce and trade, and the first stock exchanges and banking and insurance institutions were established. The world's earliest recorded speculative bubbles and stock market crashes have their roots in 17th-century Holland. The Dutch Republic was also an early industrialized nation-state in its Golden Age. 17th-century Dutch mechanical innovations/inventions such as wind-powered sawmills and Hollander beaters helped revolutionize shipbuilding and paper industries in the early modern period. The Dutch also played a pioneering role in the rise of the capitalist world-system. World-systems theorists (including Immanuel Wallerstein and Giovanni Arrighi) often consider the economic and financial supremacy of the 17th-century Dutch Republic to be the first historical model of the capitalist hegemony. \n\nAs Thomas Hall (2000) notes, \"The Sung Empire in particular nearly underwent a transformation to capitalism in the tenth century C.E. But the only states to be controlled by capitalists before the European transformation in the seventeenth century were semiperipheral capitalist city-states such as the Phoenician cities, Venice, Genoa, and Malacca. These operated in the interstices between the tributary states and empires, and though they were agents of commodification, they existed within larger systems in which the logic of state-based coercion remained dominant. The first capitalist nation-state was the Dutch Republic in the seventeenth century. This coming to state power by capitalists in an emerging core region signaled the triumph of regional capitalism in the European subsystem.\" In Werner Sombart's words, \"In all probability the United Provinces were the land in which the capitalist spirit for the first time attained its fullest maturity; where this maturity related to all its aspects, which were equally developed; and where this development had never been done comprehensive before. Moreover, in the Netherlands an entire people became imbued with the capitalist spirit; so much so, that in the 17th century Holland was universally regarded as the land of capitalism par exellence; it was envied by all other nations, who put forth their keenest endeavours in their desire to emulate it; it was the high school of every art of the tradesman, and the well-watered garden wherein the middle-class virtues throve.\" Foundational thinkers for this approach include Adam Smith, Max Weber, Fernand Braudel, Henri Pirenne, and Paul Sweezy.\n\nHowever, the 'commercialization model' has been questioned, with a leading competitor being the 'agrarian model'. This notes that traditional mercantilism focused on moving goods from markets where they were cheap to markets where they were expensive rather than investing in production, and that many cultures (including the early modern Dutch Republic) saw urbanisation, and merchants amassing great wealth, without capitalist production emerging. The 'agrarian model' instead argues that capitalism arose from unique circumstances in English agrarianism.\n\nThe agrarian argument developed particularly through Karl Polanyi's \"The Great Transformation\" (1944), Maurice Dobb's \"Studies in the Development of Capitalism\" (1946), and Robert Brenner's research in the 1970s, the discussion of which is known as the Brenner Debate. In the wake of the Norman Conquest, the English state was unusually centralised. This gave aristocrats relatively limited powers to extract wealth directly from their feudal underlings through political means (not least the threat of violence). England's centralisation also meant that an unusual number of English farmers were not peasants (with their own land and thus direct access to subsistence) but tenants (renting their land). These circumstances produced a market in leases. Landlords, lacking other ways to extract wealth, were incentivised to rent to those tenants who could pay the most, while tenants, lacking security of tenure, were incentivised to farm as productively as possible to be able to win leases in a competitive market. This led to a cascade of effects whereby successful tenant farmers became agrarian capitalists; unsuccessful ones became wage-labourers, required to sell their labour in order to live; and landlords promoted the privatisation and renting out of common land, not least through the enclosures. In this reading, 'it was not merchants or manufacturers who drove the process that propelled the early development of capitalism. The transformation of social property relations was firmly rooted in the countryside, and the transformation of England's trade and industry was result more than cause of England's transition to capitalism'.\n\nThe present article includes both perspectives.\n\nThe twenty-first century has seen renewed interest in the history of capitalism, and \"History of Capitalism\" has become a field in its own right, with courses in history departments. In the 2000s, Harvard University founded the Program on the Study of U.S. Capitalism; Cornell University established the History of Capitalism Initiative; and Columbia University Press launched a monograph series entitled Studies in the History of U.S. Capitalism. This field includes topics such as insurance, banking and regulation, the political dimension, and the impact on the middle classes, the poor and women and minorities. These initiatives incorporate formerly neglected questions of race, gender, and sexuality into the history of capitalism. They have grown in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2007–2008 and the associated Great Recession.\n\nAccording to some historians, the modern capitalist system has its origin in the \"crisis of the fourteenth century\", a conflict between the land-owning aristocracy and the agricultural producers, or serfs. Manorial arrangements inhibited the development of capitalism in a number of ways. Serfs had obligations to produce for lords and therefore had no interest in technological innovation; they also had no interest in cooperating with one another since they produced to sustain their own families. The lords who owned the land relied on force to guarantee that they were provided with sufficient food. Because lords were not producing to sell on the market, there was no competitive pressure for them to innovate. Finally, because lords expanded their power and wealth through military means, they spent their wealth on military equipment or on conspicuous consumption that helped foster alliances with other lords; they had no incentive to invest in developing new productive technologies.\n\nThe demographic crisis of the fourteenth century upset this arrangement. This crisis had several causes: agricultural productivity reached its technological limitations and stopped growing, bad weather led to the Great Famine of 1315–1317, and the Black Death of 1348–1350 led to a population crash. These factors led to a decline in agricultural production. In response, feudal lords sought to expand agricultural production by expanding their domains through warfare; they therefore demanded more tribute from their serfs to pay for military expenses. In England, many serfs rebelled. Some moved to towns, some purchased land, and some entered into favorable contracts to rent lands from lords who needed to repopulate their estates.\n\nThe collapse of the \"manorial\" system in England enlarged the class of tenant farmers with more freedom to market their goods and thus more incentive to invest in new technologies. Lords who did not want to rely on renters could buy out or evict tenant farmers, but then had to hire free labor to work their estates, giving them an incentive to invest in two very different kinds of commodity owners: those who had money, the means of production, and subsistence, who were eager to valorize the sum of value they had appropriated by buying the labor power of others; and the free workers, who sold their own labor power and, therefore, labor. The free workers were \"free workers\" in the double sense that they neither formed part of the means of production nor did they own the means of production that transformed land and even money into what we now call \"capital\".\nMarx labeled this period the \"pre-history of capitalism\".\n\nIn effect, feudalism began to lay some of the foundations necessary for the development of mercantilism, a precursor of capitalism. Feudalism was mostly confined to Europe and lasted from the medieval period through the sixteenth century. Feudal manors were almost entirely self-sufficient, and therefore limited the role of the market. This stifled any incipient tendency towards capitalism. However, the relatively sudden emergence of new technologies and discoveries, particularly in agriculture and exploration, facilitated the growth of capitalism. The most important development at the end of feudalism was the emergence of what Robert Degan calls \"the dichotomy between wage earners and capitalist merchants\".\nThe competitive nature meant there are always winners and losers, and this became clear as feudalism evolved into mercantilism, an economic system characterized by the private or corporate ownership of capital goods, investments determined by private decisions, and by prices, production, and the distribution of goods determined mainly by competition in a free market.\n\nEngland in the 16th century was already a centralized state, in which much of the feudal order of Medieval Europe had been swept away. This centralization was strengthened by a good system of roads and a disproportionately large capital city, London. The capital acted as a central market hub for the entire country, creating a large internal market for goods, in contrast to the fragmented feudal holdings that prevailed in most parts of the Continent. The economic foundations of the agricultural system were also beginning to diverge substantially; the manorial system had broken down by this time, and land began to be concentrated in the hands of fewer landlords with increasingly large estates. The system put pressure on both the landlords and the tenants to increase agricultural productivity to create profit; the weakened coercive power of the aristocracy to extract peasant surpluses encouraged them to try out better methods, and the tenants also had an incentive to improve their methods, in order to succeed in an increasingly competitive labour market. Land rents had moved away from the previous stagnant system of custom and feudal obligation, and were becoming directly subject to economic market forces.\n\nAn important aspect of this process of change was the enclosure of the common land previously held in the open field system where peasants had traditional rights, such as mowing meadows for hay and grazing livestock. Once enclosed, these uses of the land became restricted to the owner, and it ceased to be land for commons. The process of enclosure began to be a widespread feature of the English agricultural landscape during the 16th century. By the 19th century, unenclosed commons had become largely restricted to rough pasture in mountainous areas and to relatively small parts of the lowlands.\n\nMarxist and neo-Marxist historians argue that rich landowners used their control of state processes to appropriate public land for their private benefit. This created a landless working class that provided the labour required in the new industries developing in the north of England. For example: \"In agriculture the years between 1760 and 1820 are the years of wholesale enclosure in which, in village after village, common rights are lost\". \"Enclosure (when all the sophistications are allowed for) was a plain enough case of class robbery\".\n\nOther scholars argue that the better-off members of the European peasantry encouraged and participated actively in enclosure, seeking to end the perpetual poverty of subsistence farming. \"We should be careful not to ascribe to [enclosure] developments that were the consequence of a much broader and more complex process of historical change.\" \"[T]he impact of eighteenth and nineteenth century enclosure has been grossly exaggerated...\"\n\nThe earliest recorded activity of long-distance profit-seeking merchants can be traced back to the Old Assyrian merchants active in the 2nd millennium BCE. The Roman Empire developed more advanced forms of commerce, and similarly widespread networks existed in Islamic nations, but capitalism took shape in Europe in the late Middle Ages and Renaissance. However, while trade has existed since early in human history, it was not capitalism.\n\nAn early emergence of commerce occurred on monastic estates in Italy and France and in the independent city republics of Italy during the late Middle Ages. Innovations in banking, insurance, accountancy, and various production and commercial practices linked closely to a 'spirit' of frugality, reinvestment, and city life, promoted attitudes which sociologists have tended to associate only with northern Europe, Protestantism and a much later age. The city republics maintained their political independence from Empire and Church, traded with North Africa, the Middle East and Asia, and introduced Eastern practices. They were also considerably different from the absolutist monarchies of Spain and France, and were strongly attached to civic liberty.\n\nModern capitalism, however, only fully emerged in the early modern period between the 16th and 18th centuries, with the establishment of mercantilism or merchant capitalism.\n\nEarly evidence for mercantilistic practices appears in early modern Venice, Genoa, and Pisa over the Mediterranean trade in bullion. The region of mercantilism's real birth, however, was the Atlantic Ocean.\nEngland began a large-scale and integrative approach to mercantilism during the Elizabethan Era. An early statement on national balance of trade appeared in \"Discourse of the Common Weal of this Realm of England\", 1549: \"We must always take heed that we buy no more from strangers than we sell them, for so should we impoverish ourselves and enrich them.\" The period featured various but often disjointed efforts by the court of Queen Elizabeth to develop a naval and merchant fleet capable of challenging the Spanish stranglehold on trade and of expanding the growth of bullion at home. Queen Elizabeth promoted the Trade and Navigation Acts in Parliament and issued orders to her navy for the protection and promotion of English shipping.\n\nThese efforts organized national resources sufficiently in the defense of England against the far larger and more powerful Spanish Empire, and in turn paved the foundation for establishing a global empire in the 19th century. The authors noted most for establishing the English mercantilist system include Gerard de Malynes and Thomas Mun, who first articulated the Elizabethan System. The latter's \"England's Treasure by Forraign Trade, or the Balance of our Forraign Trade is The Rule of Our Treasure\" gave a systematic and coherent explanation of the concept of balance of trade. It was written in the 1620s and published in 1664. Mercantile doctrines were further developed by Josiah Child. Numerous French authors helped to cement French policy around mercantilism in the 17th century. French mercantilism was best articulated by Jean-Baptiste Colbert (in office, 1665–1683), although his policies were greatly liberalised under Napoleon.\n\nUnder mercantilism, European merchants, backed by state controls, subsidies, and monopolies, made most of their profits from the buying and selling of goods. In the words of Francis Bacon, the purpose of mercantilism was \"the opening and well-balancing of trade; the cherishing of manufacturers; the banishing of idleness; the repressing of waste and excess by sumptuary laws; the improvement and husbanding of the soil; the regulation of prices...\" Similar practices of economic regimentation had begun earlier in the medieval towns. However, under mercantilism, given the contemporaneous rise of absolutism, the state superseded the local guilds as the regulator of the economy.\n\nAmong the major tenets of mercantilist theory was bullionism, a doctrine stressing the importance of accumulating precious metals. Mercantilists argued that a state should export more goods than it imported so that foreigners would have to pay the difference in precious metals. Mercantilists asserted that only raw materials that could not be extracted at home should be imported; and promoted government subsidies, such as the granting of monopolies and protective tariffs, were necessary to encourage home production of manufactured goods.\n\nProponents of mercantilism emphasized state power and overseas conquest as the principal aim of economic policy. If a state could not supply its own raw materials, according to the mercantilists, it should acquire colonies from which they could be extracted. Colonies constituted not only sources of supply for raw materials but also markets for finished products. Because it was not in the interests of the state to allow competition, to help the mercantilists, colonies should be prevented from engaging in manufacturing and trading with foreign powers.\n\nMercantilism was a system of trade for profit, although commodities were still largely produced by non-capitalist production methods. Noting the various pre-capitalist features of mercantilism, Karl Polanyi argued that \"mercantilism, with all its tendency toward commercialization, never attacked the safeguards which protected [the] two basic elements of production – labor and land – from becoming the elements of commerce\"; thus with mercantilism regulation was more akin to feudalism than capitalism. According to Polanyi, \"not until 1834 was a competitive labor market established in England, hence industrial capitalism as a social system cannot be said to have existed before that date.\"\n\nThe Muscovy Company was the first major chartered joint stock English trading company established in 1555 with a monopoly on trade between England and Muscovy. It was an offshoot of the earlier \"Company of Merchant Adventurers to New Lands\", founded in 1551 by Richard Chancellor, Sebastian Cabot and Sir Hugh Willoughby to locate the Northeast Passage to China to allow trade. This was the precursor to a type of business that would soon flourish in England, the Dutch Republic and elsewhere.\n\nThe British East India Company (1600) and the Dutch East India Company (1602) launched an era of large state chartered trading companies. These companies were characterized by their monopoly on trade, granted by letters patent provided by the state. Recognized as chartered joint-stock companies by the state, these companies enjoyed power, ranging from lawmaking, military, and treaty-making privileges. Characterized by its colonial and expansionary powers by states, powerful nation-states sought to accumulate precious metals, and military conflicts arose. During this era, merchants, who had previously traded on their own, invested capital in the East India Companies and other colonies, seeking a return on investment.\n\nMercantilism declined in Great Britain in the mid-18th century, when a new group of economic theorists, led by Adam Smith, challenged fundamental mercantilist doctrines as the belief that the amount of the world's wealth remained constant and that a state could only increase its wealth at the expense of another state. However, in more undeveloped economies, such as Prussia and Russia, with their much younger manufacturing bases, mercantilism continued to find favor after other states had turned to newer doctrines.\n\nThe mid-18th century gave rise to industrial capitalism, made possible by (1) the accumulation of vast amounts of capital under the merchant phase of capitalism and its investment in machinery, and (2) the fact that the Enclosures meant that Britain had a large population of people with no access to subsistence agriculture, who needed to buy basic commodities via the market, thus ensuing a mass consumer market. Industrial capitalism, which Marx dated from the last third of the 18th century, marked the development of the factory system of manufacturing, characterized by a complex division of labor between and within work process and the routinization of work tasks; and finally established the global domination of the capitalist mode of production.\n\nDuring the resulting Industrial Revolution, the industrialist replaced the merchant as a dominant actor in the capitalist system and effected the decline of the traditional handicraft skills of artisans, guilds, and journeymen. Also during this period, capitalism marked the transformation of relations between the British landowning gentry and peasants, giving rise to the production of cash crops for the market rather than for subsistence on a feudal manor. The surplus generated by the rise of commercial agriculture encouraged increased mechanization of agriculture.\n\nThe productivity gains of capitalist production began a sustained and unprecedented increase at the turn of the 19th century, in a process commonly referred to as the Industrial Revolution. Starting in about 1760 in England, there was a steady transition to new manufacturing processes in a variety of industries, including going from hand production methods to machine production, new chemical manufacturing and iron production processes, improved efficiency of water power, the increasing use of steam power and the development of machine tools. It also included the change from wood and other bio-fuels to coal.\nIn textile manufacturing, mechanized cotton spinning powered by steam or water increased the output of a worker by a factor of about 1000, due to the application of James Hargreaves' spinning jenny, Richard Arkwright's water frame, Samuel Crompton's Spinning Mule and other inventions. The power loom increased the output of a worker by a factor of over 40. The cotton gin increased productivity or removing seed from cotton by a factor of 50. Large gains in productivity also occurred in spinning and weaving of wool and linen, but they were not as great as in cotton.\n\nThe growth of Britain's industry stimulated a concomitant growth in her system of finance and credit. In the 18th century, services offered by banks increased. Clearing facilities, security investments, cheques and overdraft protections were introduced.\nCheques were invented in the 17th century in England and banks settled payments by direct courier to the issuing bank. Around 1770, they began meeting in a central location, and by the 19th century a dedicated space was established, known as a bankers' clearing house. The London clearing house used a method where each bank paid cash to and then was paid cash by an inspector at the end of each day. The first overdraft facility was set up in 1728 by The Royal Bank of Scotland.\n\nThe end of the Napoleonic War and the subsequent rebound in trade, led to an expansion in the bullion reserves held by the Bank of England, from a low of under 4 million pounds in 1821 to 14 million pounds by late 1824.\n\nOlder innovations became routine parts of financial life during the 19th century. The Bank of England first issued bank notes during the 17th century, but the notes were hand written and few in number. After 1725 they were partially printed, but cashiers still had to sign each note and make them payable to a named person. In 1844, parliament passed the Bank Charter Act tying these notes to gold reserves, effectively creating the institution of central banking and monetary policy. The notes became fully printed and widely available from 1855.\n\nGrowing international trade increased the number of banks, especially in London. These new \"merchant banks\" facilitated trade growth, profiting from England's emerging dominance in seaborne shipping. Two immigrant families, Rothschild and Baring, established merchant banking firms in London in the late 18th century and came to dominate world banking in the next century. The tremendous wealth amassed by these banking firms soon attracted much attention. The poet George Gordon Byron wrote in 1823: \"Who makes politics run glibber all?/ The shade of Bonaparte's noble daring?/ Jew Rothschild and his fellow-Christian, Baring.\"\n\nThe operation of banks also shifted. At the beginning of the century, banking was still an elite preoccupation of a handful of very wealthy families. Within a few decades, however, a new sort of banking had emerged, owned by anonymous stockholders, run by professional managers, and the recipient of the deposits of a growing body of small middle-class savers. Although this new breed of banks was new in prominence, it was not newly invented – the Quaker family Barclays, had been banking in this manner since 1690.\n\nAt the height of the First French Empire, Napoleon sought to introduce a \"continental system\" that would render Europe economically autonomous, thereby emasculating British trade and commerce. It involved such stratagems as the use of beet sugar in preference to the cane sugar that had to be imported from the tropics. Although this caused businessmen in England to agitate for peace, the government was able to persevere, in part because the United Kingdom was well into the industrial revolution. The war had the opposite effect – it stimulated the growth of certain industries like pig-iron output, which was just 68,000 tons in 1788 and soared to 244,000 tons by 1806.\nIn 1817, David Ricardo, James Mill and Robert Torrens showed that free trade would benefit the industrially weak as well as the strong, in the famous theory of comparative advantage. In Principles of Political Economy and Taxation Ricardo advanced the doctrine still considered the most counterintuitive in economics:\n\nBy the mid 19th century, Britain was firmly wedded to the notion of free trade and the first era of globalization began. In the 1840s, the Corn Laws and the Navigation Acts were repealed, ushering in a new age of free trade. In line with the teachings of the classical political economists, led by Adam Smith and David Ricardo, Britain embraced liberalism, encouraging competition and the development of a market economy.\n\nIndustrialization allowed cheap production of household items using economies of scale, while rapid population growth created sustained demand for commodities. Globalization in this period was decisively shaped by nineteenth-century imperialism. After the First and Second Opium Wars and the completion of British conquest of India, vast populations of these regions became ready consumers of European exports. It was in this period that areas of sub-Saharan Africa and the Pacific islands were incorporated into the world system. Meanwhile, the conquest of new parts of the globe, notably sub-Saharan Africa, by Europeans yielded valuable natural resources such as rubber, diamonds and coal and helped fuel trade and investment between the European imperial powers, their colonies, and the United States.\n\nThe global financial system was mainly tied to the gold standard in this period. The United Kingdom first formally adopted this standard in 1821. Soon to follow was Canada in 1853, Newfoundland in 1865, and the United States and Germany (\"de jure\") in 1873. New technologies, such as the telegraph, the transatlantic cable, the Radiotelephone, the steamship, and railway allowed goods and information to move around the world at an unprecedented degree.\n\nThe eruption of civil war in the United States in 1861 and the blockade of its ports to international commerce meant that the main supply of cotton for the Lancashire looms was cut off. The textile industries shifted to reliance upon cotton from Africa and Asia during the course of the U.S. civil war, and this fact created pressure for an Anglo-French controlled canal through the Suez peninsula. The Suez canal opened in 1869; in the same year the Central Pacific Railroad that spanned the North American continent was completed. Capitalism and the engine of profit was making the globe a smaller place.\n\nSeveral major challenges to capitalism appeared in the early part of the 20th century. The Russian revolution in 1917 established the first socialist state in the world; a decade later, the Great Depression triggered increasing criticism of the existing capitalist system. One response to this crisis was a turn to fascism, an ideology which advocated state-influenced capitalism; whilst others rejected capitalism altogether in favor of communist or socialist ideologies.\n\nThe economic recovery of the world's leading capitalist economies in the period following the end of the Great Depression and the Second World War—a period of unusually rapid growth by historical standards—eased discussion of capitalism's eventual decline or demise. The state began to play an increasingly prominent role to moderate and regulate the capitalistic system throughout much of the world.\n\nKeynesian economics became a widely accepted method of government regulation and countries such as the United Kingdom experimented with mixed economies in which the state owned and operated certain major industries.\n\nThe state also expanded in the US; in 1929, total government expenditures amounted to less than one-tenth of GNP; from the 1970s they amounted to around one-third. Similar increases were seen in all industrialized capitalist economies, some of which, such as France, have reached even higher ratios of government expenditures to GNP than the United States.\n\nA broad array of new analytical tools in the social sciences were developed to explain the social and economic trends of the period, including the concepts of post-industrial society and the welfare state.\n\nThe long postwar boom ended in the 1970s, amid the economic crises experienced following the 1973 oil crisis. The \"stagflation\" of the 1970s led many economic commentators and politicians to embrace market-oriented policy prescriptions inspired by the laissez-faire capitalism and classical liberalism of the 19th century, particularly under the influence of Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman. The theoretical alternative to Keynesianism was more compatible with laissez-faire and emphasized rapid expansion of the economy. Market-oriented solutions gained increasing support in the capitalist world, especially under leadership of Ronald Reagan in the U.S. and Margaret Thatcher in the UK in the 1980s. Public and political interest began shifting away from the so-called collectivist concerns of Keynes's managed capitalism to a focus on individual choice, called \"remarketized capitalism.\" In the eyes of many economic and political commentators, the collapse of the Soviet Union brought further evidence of the superiority of market capitalism over planned economy.\n\nAlthough overseas trade has been associated with the development of capitalism for over five hundred years, some thinkers argue that a number of trends associated with globalization have acted to increase the mobility of people and capital since the last quarter of the 20th century, combining to circumscribe the room to maneuver of states in choosing non-capitalist models of development. Today, these trends have bolstered the argument that capitalism should now be viewed as a truly world system (Burnham). However, other thinkers argue that globalization, even in its quantitative degree, is no greater now than during earlier periods of capitalist trade.\n\nAfter the abandonment of the Bretton Woods system in 1971, and the strict state control of foreign exchange rates, the total value of transactions in foreign exchange was estimated to be at least twenty times greater than that of all foreign movements of goods and services (EB). The internationalization of finance, which some see as beyond the reach of state control, combined with the growing ease with which large corporations have been able to relocate their operations to low-wage states, has posed the question of the 'eclipse' of state sovereignty, arising from the growing 'globalization' of capital.\n\nWhile economists generally agree about the size of global income inequality, there is a general disagreement about the recent direction of change of it. In cases such as China, where income inequality is clearly growing it is also evident that overall economic growth has rapidly increased with capitalist reforms. The book \"The Improving State of the World\", published by the libertarian think tank Cato Institute, argues that economic growth since the Industrial Revolution has been very strong and that factors such as adequate nutrition, life expectancy, infant mortality, literacy, prevalence of child labor, education, and available free time have improved greatly. Some scholars, including Stephen Hawking and researchers for the International Monetary Fund, contend that globalization and neoliberal economic policies are not ameliorating inequality and poverty but exacerbating it, and are creating new forms of contemporary slavery. Such policies are also expanding populations of the displaced, the unemployed and the imprisoned along with accelerating the destruction of the environment and species extinction. In 2017, the IMF warned that inequality within nations, in spite of global inequality falling in recent decades, has risen so sharply that it threatens economic growth and could result in further political polarization.\n\nBy the beginning of the 21st century, capitalism had become the pervasive economic system worldwide. The collapse of the Soviet bloc in 1991 significantly reduced the influence of Socialism as an alternative economic system. Socialist movements continue to be influential in some parts of the world, most notably Latin-American Bolivarianism, with some having ties to more traditional anti-capitalist movements, such as Bolivarian Venezuela's ties to communist Cuba.\n\nIn many emerging markets, the influence of banking and financial capital have come to increasingly shape national developmental strategies, leading some to argue we are in a new phase of financial capitalism.\n\nState intervention in global capital markets following the financial crisis of 2007–2010 was perceived by some as signaling a crisis for free-market capitalism. Serious turmoil in the banking system and financial markets due in part to the subprime mortgage crisis reached a critical stage during September 2008, characterized by severely contracted liquidity in the global credit markets posed an existential threat to investment banks and other institutions.\n\nAccording to some, the transition to the information society involves abandoning some parts of capitalism, as the \"capital\" required to produce and process information becomes available to the masses and difficult to control, and is closely related to the controversial issues of intellectual property. Some even speculate that the development of mature nanotechnology, particularly of universal assemblers, may make capitalism obsolete, with capital ceasing to be an important factor in the economic life of humanity. Thinkers have also explored what kind of economic system might replace capitalism, such as Paul Mason.\n\nWomen's historians have debated the impact of capitalism on the status of women. Taking a pessimistic side, Alice Clark argued that when capitalism arrived in 17th-century England, it made a negative impact on the status of women as they lost much of their economic importance. Clark argues that in 16th-century England, women were engaged in many aspects of industry and agriculture. The home was a central unit of production and women played a vital role in running farms, and in some trades and landed estates. Their useful economic roles gave them a sort of equality with their husbands. However, Clark argues, as capitalism expanded in the 17th century, there was more and more division of labor with the husband taking paid labor jobs outside the home, and the wife reduced to unpaid household work. Middle-class and women were confined to an idle domestic existence, supervising servants; lower-class women were forced to take poorly paid jobs. Capitalism, therefore, had a negative effect on women. In a more positive interpretation, Ivy Pinchbeck argues that capitalism created the conditions for women's emancipation. Tilly and Scott have emphasized the continuity and the status of women, finding three stages in European history. In the preindustrial era, production was mostly for home use and women produce much of the needs of the households. The second stage was the \"family wage economy\" of early industrialization, the entire family depended on the collective wages of its members, including husband, wife and older children. The third or modern stage is the \"family consumer economy,\" in which the family is the site of consumption, and women are employed in large numbers in retail and clerical jobs to support rising standards of consumption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51126726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51126726", "title": "Ibotta", "text": "Ibotta\n\nIbotta is a Denver, Colorado based mobile technology company that enables users with its smartphone app to earn cash back on in-store and mobile purchases with receipt and/or purchase verification.\n\nIt was founded by current CEO Bryan Leach, for which he was named by Ernst & Young as a regional Entrepreneur of the Year for 2015. Jim Clark is an investor and board member. As of 2016, Ibotta has received over $73 million in funding.\n\nThe company partners with brands and retailers to offer rebates and discounts on consumer packaged goods, retail purchases, and restaurant dining through a mobile app, similar to traditional coupons or rebates. Ibotta also has cash back and rebates on alcohol (wine, beer, and spirits) that can be purchased at bars, restaurants, and liquor and grocery stores. Ibotta users must be of legal drinking age, even if the consumer has no intention of purchasing beer or wine, or if they patronize a business that does not sell such items.\n\nThe app is available on both iOS and Android devices and is available only in the United States as of October 2016. Ibotta claims to work at over 500,000 locations within the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "47352652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47352652", "title": "Igor Ashurbeyli", "text": "Igor Ashurbeyli\n\nIgor Raufovich Ashurbeyli (, ; born 9 September 1963, Baku, Azerbaijan) is a Russian-Azerbaijani scientist, businessman and benefactor. He was the CEO of Scientific Production Association (SPA) Almaz from 2000 to 2011. He was also the Chairman of the Board of Socium Holding. He has a Doctorate of Science in Engineering. He has a PhD in Engineering, with a specialization in Computer Science. He is the creator of the proposed 'space nation' of Asgardia.\n\nAshurbeyli was born on 9 September 1963, in Baku, Azerbaijan, a descendant of the Azerbaijani noble family of Ashurbeyov. He graduated from the Azerbaijan State Oil Academy in 1985. He then founded the Socium, which later became Socium Holding, in 1988. In 1990 Ashurbeyli moved to Moscow. He held the positions of Deputy General Manager, First Deputy General Manager, and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) at SPA Almaz (later rebranded as GSKB Almaz-Antey) starting from 1994. From 2000 to 2011, Ashurbeyli was the CEO of SPA Almaz (because SPA Almaz was rebranded as the OJSC State Special Design Bureau Almaz-Antey, the Russian abbreviation of this company, GSKB Almaz –Antey is frequently confused with JSC Concern Almaz-Antey). From 2004, he was the Chairman of the Board of the Nonprofit Non-Government Expert Society on Space Threat Defense (ESSTD). In 2014, ESSTD was granted special consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). He was awarded Russia’s State Science and Technology Prize in 2010. Ashurbeyli resigned from SPA Almaz in 2011. From 2011, he was the Chairman of the Board and Scientific Supervisor of KB-1 (Design Bureau -1), a privately held company, and Chairman of the Board and Owner of Socium Holding. He founded the Aerospace International Research Center (AIRC) in Vienna, Austria, in 2013. In 2014, AIRC began publication of an international space journal, ROOM, of which Ashurbeyli is the editor-in-chief. On February 5, 2016, Ashurbeyli was awarded the UNESCO Medal for contributions to the development of nanoscience and nanotechnologies during a ceremony held at UNESCO headquarters, Paris.\n\nOn 12 October 2016, Ashurbeyli announced in a press conference in Paris \"The birth of the new space nation Asgardia\" in an opening speech. From\n20 January 2017, supported by more than 150,000 members, Igor Ashurbeyli took up the position of Head of Nation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36947", "title": "Indemnity", "text": "Indemnity\n\nIndemnity is a contractual obligation of one party (indemnifier) to compensate the loss occurred to the other party (indemnity holder) due to the act of the indemnitor or any other party. The duty to indemnify is usually, but not always, coextensive with the contractual duty to \"hold harmless\" or \"save harmless\". In contrast, a guarantee is an obligation of one party assuring the other party that guarantor will perform the promise of the third party if it defaults.\n\nIndemnities form the basis of many insurance contracts; for example, a car owner may purchase different kinds of insurance as an indemnity for various kinds of loss arising from operation of the car, such as damage to the car itself, or medical expenses following an accident. In an agency context, a principal may be obligated to indemnify their agent for liabilities incurred while carrying out responsibilities under the relationship. While the events giving rise to an indemnity may be specified by contract, the actions that must be taken to compensate the injured party are largely unpredictable, and the maximum compensation is often expressly limited.\n\nUnder section 4 of the Statute of Frauds (1677), a \"guarantee\" (an undertaking of secondary liability; to answer for another's default) must be evidenced in writing. No such formal requirement exists in respect of indemnities (involving the assumption of primary liability; to pay irrespective of another's default) which are enforceable even if made orally. (Ref: Peel E: \"Treitel, The Law of Contract\")\n\nUnder current English law, indemnities must be clearly and precisely worded in the contract in order to be enforceable. Since 1977, the Unfair Contract Terms Act s4 stated that a consumer cannot be made to unreasonably indemnify another for their breach of contract or negligence, however this section was repealed by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 sch 4 para 6.\n\nIn England and Wales an \"indemnity\" monetary award may form part of rescission during an action of restitutio in integrum. The property and funds are exchanged, but indemnity may be granted for costs necessarily incurred to the innocent party pursuant to the contract. The leading case is \"Whittington v Seale-Hayne\", in which a contaminated farm was sold. The contract made the buyers renovate the real estate and, the contamination incurred medical expenses for their manager, who had fallen ill. Once the contract was rescinded, the buyer could be indemnified for the cost of renovation as this was necessary to the contract, but not the medical expenses as the contract did not require them to hire a manager. Were the sellers at fault, damages would clearly be available.\n\nThe distinction between indemnity and damages is subtle may be differentiated by considering the roots of the law of obligations: how can money be paid where the defendant is not at fault? The contract before rescission is voidable but not void, so, for a period of time, there is a legal contract. During that time, both parties have legal obligation. If the contract is to be voided \"ab initio\" the obligations performed must also be compensated. Therefore, the costs of indemnity arise from the (transient and performed) obligations of the claimant rather than a breach of obligation by the defendant.\n\nAn indemnity is distinct from a guarantee, which is the promise of a third party to honor the obligation of a party to a contract should that party be unable or unwilling to do so (usually a guarantee is limited to an obligation to pay a debt). This distinction between indemnity and guarantee was discussed as early as the eighteenth century in \"Birkmya v Darnell\". In that case, concerned with a guarantee of payment for goods rather than payment of rent, the presiding judge explained that a guarantee effectively says \"Let him have the goods; if he does not pay you, I will.\"\n\nAn indemnity is distinct from a warranty in that:\n\nMany private contracts and terms of service in the United States require one party (indemnitor, typically a customer) to pay (indemnify) the other side's costs for legal claims arising from the relationship. They are particularly common in online services.\n\nThe US government publishes special Terms of Service, which it has negotiated with many companies, to exclude indemnification for official US government work. US law \"is violated by any indemnification agreement that, without statutory authorization, imposes on the United States an open-ended, potentially unrestricted liability.\"\n\nUnder US law, interpretation of indemnification clauses varies by state. For example, in California indemnification clauses do not cover certain risks unless the risks are listed in the contract, while in \"New York\" a brief clause, \"X shall defend and indemnify Y for all claims arising from the Product\" does make X responsible for all claims against Y. Indemnity can be extremely costly, since X's liability insurance typically does not cover claims against Y, but X still has to cover them.\n\nIn 2017, the Utah Supreme Court said that \"By statute, a contractual provision requiring a purchaser of a product to indemnify a manufacturer is 'void and unenforceable' in certain circumstances. UTAH CODE § 78B-6-707.\"\n\nIn 2012-2014, a New Jersey woman had to pay a lawyer to get out of an indemnity payment for injury at a storage unit. When someone slipped on ice in 2012, while going to a unit, Public Storage sued in court to make the woman who rented the unit pay for the injury. She tried to ignore the case, so state court ruled she must pay. She then retained a lawyer and went to court. In 2014, the US District Court said this specific indemnity clause was unenforceable in New Jersey, because it covered Public Storage's own negligence without explicitly saying so, contrary to New Jersey law (other states differ).\nA 2013 decision in New Jersey upheld a broad indemnity clause, since it was followed by another sentence, \"indemnity agreement is intended to be as broad and inclusive as is permitted by the law of the State of New Jersey\". The judge said, \"It is true that a consumer, unfamiliar with the laws of New Jersey, would not be able to state with certainty how far the waiver extends\".\n\nIn 2010, the Colorado Supreme Court required a flower shop to indemnify its shopping center for a customer who slipped on the icy parking lot, through no fault of the flower shop, because the tenant was there to visit that shop, and the shop's lease had a broad indemnity clause.\n\nIn 1999, a Federal District Court in Wyoming did not require a customer to indemnify a white-water rafting company for injury to his wife, since the wording may have only applied to him and his children, and clauses cannot be enforced in Wyoming to indemnify a company for its own negligence.\n\nIn 1979 the Minnesota Supreme Court ruled that a subcontractor must indemnify the builder for damages it caused, according to an indemnification clause in their purchase order.\n\nIn 1966 the California Supreme Court ruled that Hertz could not enforce its clause requiring renters to indemnify Hertz' insurer.\n\nWhen a contract is negotiable, the indemnitor negotiates to control these legal costs. It will not let the indemnified party (indemnitee) overspend, \"An arrangement where the indemnitee makes decisions about how to defend and settle the claim while the indemnitor writes the checks presents a moral hazard. Knowing that its defense and settlement costs are being borne by the indemnitor, the indemnitee may be encouraged to engage a more expensive legal team or pursue a riskier defense strategy than it would otherwise. For this reason, most indemnitors are unwilling to indemnify against claims when they do not control the defense of the claim.\"\n\nThe American Bar Association has published advice on negotiations of construction contracts: that (1) owners try to get contractors to indemnify as much as possible, while (2) contractors (a) only indemnify for their own negligence and (b) \"establish a right but not a duty for the contractor to defend under an indemnification claim.\"\n\nAn example of letting the indemnitor control costs is (in this case a contractor for a homeowners association-HOA), \"Contractor shall indemnify, defend (by counsel reasonably acceptable to Association) and hold harmless the Association\" Companies and HOAs also use indemnity to protect directors, since few would serve as directors if their risks were not indemnified. Negotiation is important for both parties, \" \"Just about all homeowner association management contracts have a provision which states that the HOA shall indemnify the manager under certain circumstances... There are several ways the indemnification clause can be drafted and both management and HOA must take into account what protects each the best\"\"\n\nIf indemnitors can negotiate a limit on liability in their contract, this limits the cost of a potential indemnity if they \"\"make clear in the agreement that any limitations of liability (whether in the form of caps or exclusions of certain types of damages—e.g., consequential) apply to the ... indemnification\".\"\n\nWhen a contract is not negotiable (adhesion contract), the wording often lets the indemnitee decide what to spend on legal costs and bill the indemnitor. Most clauses are quite broad. The following are examples of indemnity requirements from a range of businesses. The last one, Angie's List, limits issues to the user's fault, but decisions and costs are still controlled by the indemnitee (Angie's List).\n\nIndemnity insurance compensates the beneficiaries of the policies for their actual economic losses, up to the limiting amount of the insurance policy. It generally requires the insured to prove the amount of its loss before it can recover. Recovery is limited to the amount of the provable loss even if the face amount of the policy is higher. This is in contrast to, for example, life insurance, where the amount of the beneficiary's economic loss is irrelevant. The death of the person whose life is insured for reasons not excluded from the policy obligate the insurer to pay the entire policy amount to the beneficiary.\n\nMost business interruption insurance policies contain an Extended Period of Indemnity Endorsement, which extends coverage beyond the time that it takes to physically restore the property. This provision covers additional expenses that allow the business to return to prosperity and help the business restore revenues to pre-loss levels.\n\nSlave owners suffered a loss whenever their slaves were granted their freedom. Slave owners might have been paid to cover their losses.\n\nWhen the slaves of Zanzibar were freed in 1897, it was by compensation since the prevailing opinion was that the slave owners suffered the loss of an asset whenever a slave was freed.\n\nIn the 1860s in the United States, U.S. President Abraham Lincoln had requested many millions of dollars from Congress with which to compensate slave owners for the loss of their slaves. On July 9, 1868, Section IV of the Fourteenth Constitutional Amendment dismissed all of the claims that slave owners had been injured by the freeing of the slaves.\n\nIn 1807–08, in Prussia, statesman Baron Heinrich vom Stein introduced a series of reforms, the principal of which was the abolition of serfdom with indemnification to territorial lords.\n\nHaiti was required to pay an indemnity of 150,000,000 francs to France in order to atone for the loss suffered by the French slave owners.\n\nIn Peru, Antonio Salinas y Castañeda (1810–1874), a wealthy Peruvian landowner and conservative politician, led the meeting of the main landowners of the country for an indemnity after slavery abolition and ruled the commission who promoted the immigration of Asians to replace former slaves as a workforce during Ramón Castilla government.\n\nThe nation that wins a war may insist on being paid compensations for the costs of the war, even after having been the instigator of the war. \n"}
{"id": "3310305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3310305", "title": "John Mara", "text": "John Mara\n\nJohn K. Mara ( (born December 1, 1954) is the president, CEO, and co-owner of the New York Giants.\n\nMara was born in New York City and grew up in White Plains, a nearby suburb. He is the eldest son of Ann Mara (née Mumm) and Giants owner Wellington Mara. His ancestry includes Irish, German, and French-Canadian. He attended Iona Preparatory School in nearby New Rochelle, graduating in 1972. He earned a B.S. \"cum laude\" in marketing from Boston College in 1976, followed by a J.D. degree in 1979 from Fordham University. After his graduation from Fordham, Mara was an attorney at Vedder, Price, Kaufman, Kammholz and Day, specializing in labor and employment law and litigation. Two years later, he joined Shea & Gould, where he remained until joining the Giants organization.\n\nMara joined the Giants in 1988, serving as General Counsel and later as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer until his father's death in 2005, when he assumed the team's presidency. Under John Mara and Steve Tisch, the Giants have won Super Bowl XLII and Super Bowl XLVI.\n\nMara has served for 15 years on the NFL Competition Committee, which suggests rule and policy changes to all NFL teams. He is the current chairman of the NFL Management Council Executive Committee. Mara, alongside Steve Tisch and Woody Johnson, brought Super Bowl XLVIII to MetLife Stadium in February 2014.\n\nMara is the third generation of his family to own the Giants. His grandfather, Tim, founded the team in 1925. Tim's sons, Wellington and Jack (John's uncle), inherited the team in 1959, when Tim died. Among NFL franchises, only the Chicago Bears (controlled by the Halas-McCaskey family since 1921) have been in the hands of one family longer than the Giants.\n\nHe and his wife, Denise W. Mara, have one son, John Jr., and four daughters, Lauren, Courtney, Christine, and Erin.\nHe is also an uncle to actresses Rooney Mara and Kate Mara. \n\nMara serves on the Board of Directors of Saint Vincent’s Hospital in Harrison, New York and Boys Hope Girls Hope of New York.\n"}
{"id": "4403244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4403244", "title": "Joseph M. McCormick", "text": "Joseph M. McCormick\n\nJoseph Medill McCormick (May 16, 1877 – February 25, 1925), called Medill, was part of the McCormick family of businessmen and politicians in Chicago. After working for some time and becoming part owner of the \"Chicago Tribune,\" which his maternal grandfather had owned, he entered politics.\n\nAfter serving in the State House, he was elected both as a Representative in the United States Congress and later as a US Senator from Illinois. He committed suicide at age 47, a few months after losing his bid for renomination for a second term in the senate.\n\nJoseph Medill McCormick was born in Chicago on May 16, 1877. His father was the future diplomat Robert Sanderson McCormick (1849–1919), who was a nephew of Cyrus McCormick.\n\nMcCormick attended the Groton School, a preparatory school at Groton, Massachusetts. He graduated from Yale University in 1900, where he was elected to the secret society Scroll and Key.\n\nHe worked as a newspaper reporter and publisher, and became an owner of the \"Chicago Daily Tribune\". He later purchased interests in \"The Cleveland Leader\" and \"Cleveland News.\" In 1901 he served as a war correspondent in the Philippine Islands.\n\nIn 1903 he married Ruth Hanna, daughter of the Ohio Senator Mark Hanna. They had three children: \n\nMcCormick was a grandson of the \"Tribune\" owner Joseph Medill. His mother Katherine Medill McCormick hoped that leadership of the paper would pass from her brother-in-law, Robert Wilson Patterson, to her first son. Joseph McCormick took over much of the management of the paper between 1903 and 1907, but became increasingly depressed and developed alcoholism. In 1907–1908, he spent some time under the care of the psychoanalyst Carl Jung in Zurich, and subsequently followed Jung's advice to detach himself from the family newspaper.\n\nHis younger brother, the famed \"Colonel\" Robert McCormick (1880–1955) became involved in the newspaper, worked closely on it for four decades, and was a leading isolationist figure in the Republican Party.\n\nMcCormick was vice chairman of the national campaign committee of the Progressive Republican movement from 1912 to 1914. He was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives in 1912 and 1914.\n\nAfterward he advanced to national office, being elected to the United States House of Representatives, where he served one term from March 4, 1917, to March 3, 1919. He was elected to the United States Senate in 1918, and served from March 4, 1919, until his death at age 48 in 1925. In the Senate, McCormick was chairman of the Committee on Expenditures in the Department of Labor and the Committee on Expenditures in Executive Departments.\n\nMcCormick lost the nomination in 1924 to Charles S. Deneen, who had previously served as the 23rd Governor of Illinois. He died on February 25, 1925, in a hotel room in Washington, DC.\nAlthough it was not publicized at the time, his death was considered suicide.\nMcCormick was interred in Middle Creek Cemetery, near Byron, Illinois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32192209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32192209", "title": "Journal of Planning Education and Research", "text": "Journal of Planning Education and Research\n\nJournal of Planning Education and Research is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers in the field of planning. The journal's editorial team includes editors-in-chief Clinton J. Andrews and Frank Popper, Associate Editor Michael Smart, and Managing Editor Karen Lowrie at Rutgers University. It was established in 1981, and is currently published by Sage Publications in association with the Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning. The journal focuses on topics such as planning practice, planning theory, and planning pedagogy and publishes articles reporting original and current research, commentaries, and book reviews.\n\n\"Journal of Planning Education and Research\" is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2017 impact factor is 2.328, ranking it 16th out of 57 journals in the category \"Planning & Development\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4686614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4686614", "title": "Julia Lynch Olin", "text": "Julia Lynch Olin\n\nJulia Lynch Olin (October 21, 1882 – March 11, 1961) was an American author and Bahá'í who co-founded the New History Society in New York City, and was later expelled from the religion by Shoghi Effendi around 1939. Through marriage, she was a member of the Astor and Dudley–Winthrop families.\n\nJulia was born on October 21, 1882 in Glen Cove, New York. She was the daughter of Stephen Henry Olin (1847–1925), the acting President of Wesleyan University from 1922 to 1923, and Alice Wadsworth Barlow (1853–1882). Her sister was Alice Townsend Olin (1881–1963), who married Tracy Dows (1871–1937) in 1903. After her mother's death in 1882 at the age of 29, her father remarried to Emeline Harriman (1860–1938), the former wife of William Earl Dodge III, in 1903. Emeline was the daughter of Oliver Harriman and the sister of Anne Harriman Vanderbilt, Oliver Harriman, Jr., J. Borden Harriman, and Herbert M. Harriman.\n\nHer maternal grandparents were Samuel Latham Mitchill Barlow (1826–1889) and Alice Cornell Townsend (1833–1889). Her paternal grandparents were Julia Matilda Lynch Olin (1814–1879) and Rev. Dr. Stephen Olin (1797–1851), 2nd President of Wesleyan University and the son of Henry Olin (1768–1837), a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Vermont.\n\nJulia was first introduced to the teachings of the Bahá'í Faith about 1925, as she states in her auto-biography. Becoming intimately associated with Mirza Ahmad Sohrab they together with her second husband, started the \"New History Society\". This Society, based in the home that Julia and Lewis owned in New York, (later called \"Caravan House\"), published several books, into the late 1950s. It apparently became defunct after Sohrab and/or Julia had died.\n\nIn 1929, he and Julia formed an educational organization called \"Caravan of East and West\" with a quarterly magazine called \"The Caravan\". This magazine is where Sohrab's partial autobiography first appeared, also in 1929.\n\nAlso that year, an article appeared in which the engagement of her daughter Elsie Benkard to Charles H. Clarke was announced. The marriage announcement appeared on February 27, 1930, stating that \"...they were married with a Bahai ceremony. It was the first time that such a ceremony... has been used at a society wedding in New York. Mirza Ahmad Sohrab officiated.\"\n\nThe New History Society was addressed by several luminaries, including Albert Einstein in 1930. Another speaker was Margaret Sanger in January 1932. In 1934, she described Baha'i membership as: \"To be a Baha'i simply means to love all the world; to love humanity and try to serve it; to work for universal peace and universal brotherhood\". In 1936, Julia translated the French version of \"Seven Valleys\" into English.\n\nShe was expelled from the Bahá'í community in 1939 along with Lewis and Sohrab after they refused to allow the Local Spiritual Assembly of New York oversight over the operations of the New History Society. They went on to support the efforts of Mírzá Muhammad `Alí, and at one point petitioned the President of Israel for Muhammad `Alí's property rights when he tried to assert his control over the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh.\n\nAs part of its mission, the New History Society, for many years sponsored an essay-contest. At least one of the winners of this, Jaja Wachuku, became famous in his own right, for his essay \"How Can the People of the World Achieve Universal Disarmament?\" written while at the New Africa University College.\n\nOn December 11, 1902, Julia married John Philip Benkard (1872–1929) of New York City, a financier and the son of James Benkard. Before their divorce in December 1920, they had two daughters:\n\n\nOn May 23, 1921, she married Lewis Stuyvesant Chanler (1869–1942), the ex-Lieutenant Governor of New York and a former Democratic candidate for Governor, in Paris. He was the fifth son of John Winthrop Chanler and Margaret Astor Ward and the great-grandson of the first John Jacob Astor.\n\nShe died on March 11, 1961, at the age of 78. In her obituary she was described as \"spiritual leader of the Reform Baha'i movement...\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "840930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=840930", "title": "Kamlesh Pattni", "text": "Kamlesh Pattni\n\nPaul Kamlesh Pattni (also known as Brother Paul) (born 1965) is a Kenyan businessman and pastor. He was implicated in the 1990s Goldenberg scandal but was acquitted in 2013.\n\nKamlesh Pattni was born and raised in Mombasa, Kenya. He later moved to practice business in Nairobi, where he allegedly used his company to acquire billions of shillings, in league with prominent politicians and government officials in the Goldenberg scandal.\n\nThe Daily Nation reports that Kamlesh Pattni is now a baptised Christian taking the name of Paul, and runs his own church. \n\nIn April 2013, the High Court acquitted him over the Goldenberg scandal.\n\nPattni is the chairman of the Kenya National Democratic Alliance (KENDA), a political party in Kenya. He was a parliamentary candidate at the 2007 elections. He unsuccessfully contested the Westlands Constituency in the 2013 election and received 10,083 votes.\n\nHe was born into a Hindu family and later converted to Christianity and took the name Paul on his baptism.\n\nIn 2012, he was awarded the Lifetime Africa Achievement Prize for Humanitarianism and Equity by the Ghanaian Excellence Awards Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "12756140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12756140", "title": "Kristian Asdahl", "text": "Kristian Asdahl\n\nKristian Asdahl (8 April 1920 – 21 January 2000) was a Norwegian politician for the Conservative Party.\n\nHe was born in Nes.\n\nHe was elected to the Norwegian Parliament from Akershus in 1954, and was re-elected on two occasions.\n\nHe spent his professional career as a business leader and CEO in Årnes, Jørpeland and Oslo, and later settled in Bærum. He had no less than 77 positions in boards of companies and non-governmental organizations.\n"}
{"id": "844265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844265", "title": "Letter of credit", "text": "Letter of credit\n\nA letter of credit (LC), also known as a documentary credit or bankers commercial credit, is a payment mechanism used in international trade to provide an economic guarantee from a creditworthy bank to an exporter of goods. A letter of credit is extremely common within international trade and goods delivery, where the reliability of contracting parties cannot be readily and easily determined. Its economic effect is to introduce a bank as underwriting the credit risk of the buyer paying the seller for goods.\n\nThe letter of credit has been used in Europe since ancient times. Letters of credit were traditionally governed by internationally recognized rules and procedures rather than by national law. The International Chamber of Commerce oversaw the preparation of the first Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (UCP) in 1933, creating a voluntary framework for commercial banks to apply to transactions worldwide. \n\nIn the late 19th century and early 20th century, travelers commonly carried a \"circular\" letter of credit issued by a relationship bank, which allowed the beneficiary to withdraw cash from other banks along their journey. This type of letter of credit was eventually replaced by traveler's checks, credit cards and automated teller machines.\n\nAlthough letters of credit first existed only as paper documents, they were regularly issued by telegraph in the late 19th century, and by telex in the latter half of the 20th century. Beginning in 1973 with the creation of SWIFT, banks began to migrate to electronic data interchange as a means of controlling costs, and in 1983 the UCP was amended to allow \"teletransmission\" of letters of credit. By the 21st century, the vast majority of L/Cs were issued in electronic form and entirely \"paperless\" L/Cs were becoming more common.\n\nUCP 600 (2007 Revision) regulates common market practice within the letter of credit market. It defines a number of terms related to letters of credit which categorise the various actors within any given transaction. These are crucial to understanding the role financial institutions play within. These include:\n\n\nA letter of credit is an important payment method in international trade. It is particularly useful where the buyer and seller may not know each other personally and are separated by distance, differing laws in each country, and different trading customs. It is a primary method in international trade to mitigate the risk a seller of goods takes when providing those goods to a buyer. It does this by ensuring that the seller is paid for presenting the documents which are specified in the contract for sale between the buyer and the seller. That is to say, a letter of credit is a payment method used to discharge the legal obligations for payment from the buyer to the seller, by having a bank pay the seller directly. Thus, the seller relies on the credit risk of the bank, rather than the buyer, to receive payment. As will be seen, and is observed in Image 2, the bank will pay the seller the value of the goods when the seller provides negotiable instruments, documents which themselves represent the goods. Upon presentation of the documents, the goods will traditionally be in the control of the issuing bank, which provides them security against the risk that the buyer (who had instructed the bank to pay the seller) will repay the bank for making such a payment.\n\nIn the event that the buyer is unable to make payment on the purchase, the seller may make a demand for payment on the bank. The bank will examine the beneficiary's demand and if it complies with the terms of the letter of credit, will honor the demand. Most letters of credit are governed by rules promulgated by the International Chamber of Commerce known as Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits. The current version, UCP 600, became effective July 1, 2007. Banks will typically require collateral from the purchaser for issuing a letter of credit and will charge a fee which is often a percentage of the amount covered by the letter of credit.\n\nSeveral categories of LC's exist which seek to operate in different markets and solve different issues. An example of these include:\n\nAdditionally, a letter of credit may also have specific terms relating to the payment conditions which relate to the underlying reference documents. Some of these include \n\nThe exporter has the right to make the credit available to one or more subsequent beneficiaries. \nCredits are made transferable when the original beneficiary is a \"middleman\", who does not supply the documents himself, but procures either goods or documents from other suppliers and arranges them to be sent to the issuing bank. A letter of credit can be transferred to the second beneficiary at the request of the first beneficiary only if it expressly states that the letter of credit is \"transferable\". A bank is not obligated to transfer a credit. It can further be transferred to more than one alternate beneficiary as long as it allows partial shipments.\nThe terms and conditions of the original credit must be replicated exactly in the transferred credit. However, to keep the workability of the transferable letter of credit, some figures can be reduced or curtailed, including:\nThe first beneficiary may demand from the transferring bank to substitute for the applicant. However, if a document other than the invoice must be issued in a way to show the applicant's name, in such a case that requirement must indicate that in the transferred credit it will be free. Transferred credit cannot be transferred again to a third beneficiary at the request of the second beneficiary.\n\nIn some cases, the middleman does not want the buyer and supplier know each other. The middleman is entitled to substitute his own invoice for the supplier's and acquire the difference as profit.\n\nTypically, after a sales contract has been negotiated, and the buyer and seller have agreed that a letter of credit will be used as the method of payment, the Applicant will contact a bank to ask for a letter of credit to be issued. Once the issuing bank has assessed the buyer's credit risk – i.e. that the Applicant will be able to pay for the goods – it will issue the letter of credit, meaning that it will provide a promise to pay the seller upon presentation of certain documents. Once the Beneficiary (the seller) receives the letter of credit, it will check the terms to ensure that it matches with the contract and will either arrange for shipment of the goods or ask for an amendment to the letter of credit so that it meets with the terms of the contract. The letter of credit is limited in terms of time, the validity of credit, the last date of shipment, and in terms of how much late after shipment the documents may be presented to the Nominated Bank.\n\nOnce the goods have been shipped, the Beneficiary will present the requested documents to the Nominated Bank. This bank will check the documents, and if they comply with the terms of the Letter of Credit, the issuing Bank is bound to honor the terms of the letter of credit by paying the Beneficiary.\n\nIf the documents do not comply with the terms of the letter of credit they are considered Discrepant. At this point, the Nominated Bank will inform the Beneficiary of the discrepancy and offer a number of options depending on the circumstances after consent of applicant. However, such a discrepancy must be more than trivial. Refusal cannot depend on anything other than reasonable examination of the documents themselves. The bank then must rely on the fact that there was, in fact, a material mistake. A fact that if true would entitle the buyer to reject the items. A wrong date such as an early delivery date was held by English courts to not be a material mistakes. If the discrepancies are minor, it may be possible to present corrected documents to the bank to make the presentation compliant. Failure of the bank to pay is grounds for a chose in action. Documents presented after the time limits mentioned in the credit, however, are considered discrepant.\n\nIf the corrected documents cannot be supplied in time, the documents may be forwarded directly to the issuing bank \"in trust\"; effectively in the hope that the Applicant will accept the documents. Documents forwarded in trust remove the payment security of a letter of credit so this route must only be used as a last resort.\n\nSome banks will offer to \"Telex for Approval\" or similar. This is where the Nominated Bank holds the documents, but sends a message to the Issuing Bank asking if discrepancies are acceptable. This is more secure than sending documents in trust.\n\nTo receive payment, an exporter or shipper must present the documents required by the LC. Typically the letter of credit will request an original Bill of lading as the use of a title document such as this is critical to the functioning of the Letter of Credit. However, the list and form of documents is open to negotiation and might contain requirements to present documents issued by a neutral third-party evidencing the quality of the goods shipped, or their place of origin or place. Typical types of documents in such contracts might include:\n\nThe range of documents that may be requested by the applicant is vast, and varies considerably by country and commodity.\nSeveral methods of verifying the documents exist, each provides different variations of risk to the fact that the documents are legitimate. A Documentary Credit provides security for both buyer and seller. Outlined in the \"UCP 600\", the bank will give an undertaking (or promise), on behalf of buyer (who is often the applicant) to pay the beneficiary the value of the goods shipped if acceptable documents are submitted and if the stipulated terms and conditions are strictly complied with. The buyer can be confident that the goods he is expecting only will be received since it will be evidenced in the form of certain documents, meeting the specified terms and conditions. The supplier finds his confidence in the fact that if such stipulations are met, he will receive payment from the issuing bank, who is independent of the parties to the contract. \nIn some cases, a letter of credit will require the documents to be collected. Subject to ICC's URC 525, sight and usance, for delivery of shipping documents against payment or acceptances of draft, where shipment happens first, then the title documents are sent to the buyer's bank by seller's bank, for delivering documents against collection of payment/acceptance. Other forms of effected payment is the direct payment where the supplier ships the goods and waits for the buyer to remit the bill, on open account terms.\n\nLetters of Credit are often used in international transactions to ensure that payment will be received where the buyer and seller may not know each other and are operating in different countries. In this case, the seller is exposed to a number of risks such as credit risk, and legal risk caused by the distance, differing laws and difficulty in knowing each party personally. some of the other risks inherent in international trade include:\n\nThe payment will be obtained for nonexistent or worthless merchandise against presentation by the beneficiary of forged or falsified documents.\n\nThere is the possibility that performance of a documentary credit may be disturbed by legal action relating directly to the parties and their rights and obligations under the documentary credit or performance may be prevented by government action outside the control of the parties. Alternatively, performance of a contract – including an obligation under a documentary credit relationship – could also be prevented by external factors such as natural disasters or armed conflicts. These risks, however, are often seen as secondary to the risk of non-payment.\n\nSeveral risks could relate to the parties of the applicant themselves. These may include situations where there is a non-delivery of Goods, Short shipment the goods are of inferior quality, are damaged, or are late. The applicant is also exposed to the failure of the bank to make payment.\n\nThe issuing bank is also exposed to risks which he may seek to mitigate through various techniques. He will be exposed to the insolvency risk of the applicant, that is, the risk the applicant runs insolvent before he is able to repay the letter of credit. Secondly, the bank will be exposed to a risk of fraud by the seller, who may provide incorrect or falsified documents to receive payment. If the bank ought to have known that the documents were a fraud, then the bank will be exposed to a fraud.\n\nThe beneficiary will be exposed to the risk of its own failure to comply with credit conditions or failure of, or delays in payment from, the issuing bank. These risks are considered remote. Crucially, the beneficiary is not exposed to the risks of set-off by the applicant where the goods are damaged or are of inferior quality. While he may be sued by the applicant at a later point, the issuing bank cannot reduce the payment owed to correspond with the damage occurred. This is crucial in mitigating the risk to insolvency. Crucial to a letter of credit is the beneficiary's (the seller) attempt to isolate itself from the credit risk of the buyer. That is to say, it is concerned primarily with the ability of the buyer to pay for the goods.\n\nIssuance charges, covering negotiation, reimbursements and other charges are paid by the applicant or as per the terms and conditions of the LC. If the LC does not specify charges, they are paid by the Applicant. Charge-related terms are indicated in field 71B.\n\nThe fundamental principle of all letters of credit is that letters of credit deal with documents and not with goods. The payment obligation is independent from the underlying contract of sale or any other contract in the transaction. The bank’s obligation is defined by the terms of the LC alone, and the contract of sale is not considered. So, for example, where party 'A' enters into an agreement to purchase goods from party 'B', Party 'A' will engage with their bank to create a letter of credit. If said bank is provided certain documents, by 'B', then he is obliged to pay, regardless of whether the contract between 'A' and 'B' is subject to set-off, or contractual issues. The specified documents are often bill of lading or other \"documentary intangibles\" which 'A' and 'B' have previously specified in their original contract. The defenses available to the buyer arising out of the sale contract do not concern the bank and in no way affect its liability. Article 4(a) of the UCP600 states this principle clearly. This is confirmed within the market-practice documents stated by Article 5 of UCP600. As is a core tenant of Financial law, market practice comprises a substantial portion of how parties behave. Accordingly, if the documents tendered by the beneficiary or their agent are in order, then, in general, the bank is obliged to pay without further qualifications. As a result, it is the issuing bank who bears the risk that is linked with non-payment of the buyer. This is advantageous because the issuing bank often has a personal banking relationship with the buyer. The whole commercial purpose for which the system of confirmed irrevocable documentary credits has been developed in international trade is to give to the seller an assured right to be paid before he parts with control of the goods that. It further does not permit of any dispute with the buyer as to the performance of the contract of sale being used as a ground for non-payment or reduction or deferment of payment. However, the only exception to this may be fraud. For example, a dishonest seller may present documents which comply with the letter of credit and receive payment, only to later discover that documents are fraudulent and the goods are not in accordance with the contract, this would place the risk on the buyer, but it also means that the issuing bank must be stringent in assessing whether the presenting documents are legitimate. .\n\nSimilar to other Financial law instruments, a Letter of Credit utilises several legal concepts to achieve the economic effect of shifting the legal exposure from the seller to the buyer. The policies behind adopting this principle of abstraction are purely commercial. Whilst the bank is under an obligation to identify that the correct documents exist, they are not expected to examine whether the documents themselves are valid. That is to say, the bank is not responsible for investigating the underlying facts of each transaction, whether the goods are of the sufficient – and specified – quality or quantity. Because the transaction operates on a negotiable instrument, it is the document itself which holds the value - not the goods to which the reference. This means that the bank need only be concerned with whether the document fulfils the requirements stipulated in the letter of credit. Documents required under the LC, could in certain circumstances, be different from those required under the sale transaction. This would place banks in a dilemma in deciding which terms to follow if required to look behind the credit agreement. Since the basic function of the credit is to provide a seller with the certainty of payment for documentary duties, it would seem necessary that banks should honor their obligation in spite of any buyer allegations of misfeasance. If this were not the case, financial institutions would be much less inclined to issue documentary credits because of the risk, inconvenience, and expense involved in determining the underlying goods. Financial institutions do not act as 'middlemen' but rather, as paying agents on behalf of the buyer. Courts have emphasized that buyers always have a remedy for an action upon the contract of sale and that it would be a calamity for the business world if a bank had to investigate every breach of contract.\n\nWith the UCP 600 rules the ICC sought to make the rules more flexible, suggesting that data in a document \"need not be identical to, but must not conflict with data in that document, any other stipulated document, or the credit\", as a way to account for any minor documentary errors. However, in practice, many banks still hold to the principle of strict compliance, since it offers concrete guarantees to all parties. If this were not the case, the bank would be entitled to withhold payment even if the deviation is purely technical or even typographical. The general legal maxim \"de minimis non curat lex\" (literally \"The law does not concern itself with trifles\") has no place in the field. However, whilst the details of the letter of credit can be understood with some flexibility the banks must adhere to the “principle of strict compliance” when determining whether the documents presented are those specified in the letter of credit. This is done to make the banks' duty of effecting payment against documents easy, efficient and quick.\n\nLegal writers have failed to satisfactorily reconcile the bank’s obligation to pay on behalf of the applicant with any contractually-founded, academic analysis. That is to say, they have not examined legal effect of the banks obligation through a conclusive theoretical lens. This has produced several conflicting theories as to the contractual effect of a letter of credit. Some theorists suggest that the obligation to pay arises through the implied promise, assignment, novation, reliance, agency, estoppel and even trust and the guarantees. Although documentary credits are enforceable once communicated to the beneficiary, it is difficult to show any consideration given by the beneficiary to the banker prior to the tender of documents. In such transactions the undertaking by the beneficiary to deliver the goods to the applicant is not sufficient consideration for the bank’s promise because the contract of sale is made before the issuance of the credit, thus consideration in these circumstances is past. However, the performance of an existing duty under a contract may be a valid consideration for a new promise made by the bank, provided that there is some practical benefit to the bank A promise to perform owed to a third party may also constitute a valid consideration.\n\nIt might also be feasible to typify letters of credit as a collateral contract for a third-party beneficiary, because three different entities participate in the transaction: the seller, the buyer, and the banker. Jean Domat suggests that because letters of credit are prompted by the buyer’s necessity, the cause of a LC is to release the buyer of his obligation to pay directly to the seller. Therefore, a LC theoretically fits as a collateral contract accepted by conduct or in other words, an implied-in-fact contract where the buyer participates as the third party beneficiary with the bank acting as the stipulator and the seller as the promisor. The term \"beneficiary\" is not used properly in the scheme of an LC because a beneficiary (also, in trust law, \"cestui que use\") in the broadest sense is a natural person or other legal entity who receives money or other benefits from a benefactor. Note that under the scheme of letters of credit, banks are neither benefactors of sellers nor benefactors of buyers and the seller receives no money in gratuity mode. Thus is possible that a “letter of credit” was one of those contracts that needed to be masked to disguise the “consideration or privity requirement”. As a result, this kind of arrangement would make letter of credit to be enforceable under the action assumpsit because of its promissory connotation.\n\nA few countries have created statutes in relation to letters of credit. For example, most jurisdictions in the United States (U.S.) have adopted Article 5 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC). These statutes are designed to work with the rules of market practice including UCP and ISP98. These rules of practice are incorporated into the transaction by agreement of the parties. The latest version of the UCP is the UCP600 effective July 1, 2007. Since the UCP are not laws, parties have to include them into their arrangements as normal contractual provisions. However, they still form a substantial part of market practice and underpin Financial law crucially.\n\n\"Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch\", the German civil code, does not directly address letters of credit. German case law indicates that the relationship between the issuing bank and customer is a contract for execution of a transaction, while the relationship between the issuing bank and the beneficiary is a promise of a debt.\n\nThe Swiss Civil Code of 1911 did not directly address letters of credit, which were still rare in the country at the time. Courts eventually dealt with the device by treating it as a hybrid of a mandate (\"Auftrag\") and authorization-to-pay contract (\"Anweisung\").\n\nLetters of credit came into general domestic use in the United States during World War I, although they had been used in American foreign trade for some time prior. The state of New York has historically had the most substantial and consistent body of case law in the United States with regard to letters of credit, due to the prominence of New York banks in international trade. The New York Bankers Commercial Credit Conference of 1920 provided the first set of voluntary L/C regulations for major banks in the United States, but these banks transitioned to the international UCP standard by 1938. \n\nArticle 5 of the Uniform Commercial Code, drafted in 1952, provided a basis for codifying many UCP principles into state law and created one of the only extensive specific legal regulations of letters of credit worldwide, although the UCC rules do not cover all aspects of letters of credit. New York effectively subjugated the UCC rules to the existing UCP rules, and as a result the UCP rules continued to govern letters of credit under New York law. Article 5 was revised in 1995 to reflect the latest international practices as codified in the UCP.\n\nLetters of credit are sometimes used to defraud banks through presentment of false documentation indicating that goods were shipped when they actually were not. Letters of credit are also sometimes used as part of fraudulent investment schemes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25541790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25541790", "title": "List of food cooperatives", "text": "List of food cooperatives\n\nThe following is a list of food cooperative grocery stores and buyers groups, current and defunct. Many of the second-wave food cooperatives formed in the 1960s and 1970s started as buying clubs.\n\nThis list is not exhaustive, and is limited to notable food cooperatives.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19557797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19557797", "title": "Long Island Business News", "text": "Long Island Business News\n\nLong Island Business News (LIBN) is a weekly business journal based in Ronkonkoma, New York. Launched in 1953 as the Long Island Commercial Review, LIBN covers business, government, legal, nonprofit and health care issues in Long Island's two counties, Nassau County and Suffolk County.\n\nIn addition to the weekly paper, LIBN maintains a Web site featuring news and several business blogs. The company also publishes lists of Long Island companies as well as several issue-centered books such as its annual Green Guide and 40 Under 40 Awards guide.\n\nIn 1953 newspaper reporter Arthur Hug and the husband-and-wife team of Peg and John Whitmore launched \"Long Island Commercial Review\". Hug had been a reporter at the \"Nassau Daily Review-Star\", the leading newspaper on Long Island in the 1930s. Several years later, he accepted an offer to write for \"Newsday\". Hug also served as a copy editor for \"World Telegram & Sun\" shortly before it folded.\n\nThe Hug and Whitmore team published the first paper on September 14, 1953. An issue sold for 15 cents, and a yearly subscription cost $5. The \"Commercial Review\" was known as the official publication of the Long Island Association, but it always remained independent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2889152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2889152", "title": "Marcellus Hartley Dodge Jr.", "text": "Marcellus Hartley Dodge Jr.\n\nMarcellus Hartley Dodge Jr. (July 29, 1908 – August 29, 1930) was the heir to the Remington-Rockefeller fortune who died in a car accident in France. He lived at Giralda Farms in Madison, New Jersey.\n\nHe was born in Madison, New Jersey to Ethel Geraldine Rockefeller and Marcellus Hartley Dodge Sr.\n\nHe was a grandson of William A. Rockefeller Jr., co-founder of Standard Oil, great-grandson of Remington Arms Company founder Marcellus Hartley, and grandnephew of Standard Oil's other co-founder, John D. Rockefeller. Dodge was often referred to as \"Hartley.\"\n\nDodge was instantly killed in an automobile accident on August 29, 1930, when his automobile struck a tree on the Bayonne-Bordeaux road in Mogesca, France shortly after his graduation from Princeton University in June 1930, where he played football. The car caught fire and two passing motorists, Henri Dupin, and Paul Theau, pulled out Dodge's dead body, and the still living Ralph Applegate. Dodge's carotid artery had been severed, and the car engine was pushed against the back seat. Marcellus Hartley Dodge Sr. went to the site of the accident and looked at the car and talked to the two men who pulled the bodies out of the wreck. His mother, Geraldine, had sent him there as a diversion from his hobby of aviation, which she felt was too dangerous. He was buried at Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in Sleepy Hollow, New York.\n\nHis parents provided for the Dodge Gateway on Princeton's campus in 1933 in his memory. In addition, the Dodges contributed to the construction of the gymnasium at Columbia University that is also named in his honor, the Marcellus Hartley Dodge Physical Fitness Center. Dodge's mother also gave Madison, New Jersey the Hartley Dodge Memorial Building that was dedicated on Memorial Day, Thursday, May 30, 1935 to house its police department. This building now houses Madison's Borough Hall. He also is the namesake of the memorial donated by his mother at the Great Swamp, which was founded with extensive efforts by his father.\n"}
{"id": "15682645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15682645", "title": "Michael Levinsohn", "text": "Michael Levinsohn\n\nMichael Levinsohn (born January 25, 1962) is a South African entrepreneur who has successfully established a number of mobile marketing businesses and financed the production of some albums by notable musicians, including Miriam Makeba and Rick Wakeman.\n\nMichael Levinsohn was born on 25 January 1962 in Johannesburg, South Africa.\n\nMichael matriculated at Potchefstroom High School for Boys in 1979. He represented his school and province (state) at both field hockey and biathlon. He also won an Inter High Schools speech competition. He completed his compulsory national service in 1981, at 1 Special Service Battalion, graduating as a 2nd Lieutenant and attended the University of the Witwatersrand for three years, where he read for a law degree.\n\nBetween 1988 and 2005 he co-founded a number of businesses including Kismet Marketing (Pty) Ltd., Atlantic Finance & Investment Holdings (Pty) Ltd., and Digital Vouchers (Pty) Ltd. He was also a director of various companies listed on the JSE Securities Exchange including Lanchem Ltd., Ventel Ltd., and Integrated Consumer Products Ltd, where he was the controlling shareholder and Chief Executive Officer. In March 2008, USA based Sovereign Wealth Corp acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares in Digital Vouchers (Pty) Ltd, a business Michael founded in 2003, in an all share exchange agreement. He was subsequently appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Sovereign Wealth Corp. which was renamed Lenco Mobile Inc.\n\nIn 1998, Michael co-founded Webworks (Pty) Ltd., the company which developed the smart card based Infinity CRM program, which became the largest privately owned CRM and loyalty program in South Africa, with 1.2 million cardholders. Infinity's technology was recognized internationally as leading edge at the time. Infinity was invited to become a partner in MasterCard's international vendor program in 2002. Infinity was also voted the leading independent loyalty program in South Africa in 2002 in an independent study carried out by World Wide Worx (Pty) Ltd.\n\nFor twenty years, Michael was the Managing Director of Sterling Trust (Pty) Ltd, a company he co-founded in 1985. Sterling Trust (Pty) Ltd advised many South African companies on mergers and acquisitions in the technology, light engineering and financial services sectors. He is also a director of 121 Marketing (Pty) Ltd., a strategic marketing company that focuses on the Customer Relationship Management and loyalty industries. Levinsohn was appointed the CEO of Mobicom Corporation in January 2008. He was also formerly responsible for the investments of the South African National Civics Organisation. In January 2009 he was responsible for establishing Lenco Mobile Inc., in the United States of America. Lenco Mobile Inc. provides a range of mobile marketing solutions to brand owners internationally.\n\nIn July 2011, he published a white paper entitled: Ten Trends That Will affect The Future Of Mobile Marketing In 2011, he was a committee member of the Mobile Marketing Association's panel on permission based mobile marketing. In 2012, he was appointed to co-chair the Mobile Marketing Association's Marketing Best Practices for Messaging committee, which published a white paper in March 2014. \nIn December 2011, Lenco Mobile Inc, merged with iLoop Mobile Inc., a leading mobile marketing solutions company, based in Seattle, WA. The merged entity, Archer Mobile was considered a world leader in mobile marketing and multimedia messaging technology. Archer Mobile had offices in Seattle, Atlanta, Newport Beach, Chicago, Johannesburg, Mexico City, Singapore and Sydney. Archer's clients included Coca-Cola, Citi Bank, Starbucks, Western-Union, Skype, Xbox and Experian. Archer Mobile was sold to IMI Mobile UK in 2015.\n\nIn early 2008 Michael expanded his business interests to include his passion for motor racing and he formed a partnership with Intersport Racing, a leading American Le Mans, LMP Prototype racing team to build the commercial arm of Intersport Racing. This relationship was discontinued in 2010. In 2013 he formed a new company in partnership with world-renowned sports car champion and team owner, Wayne Taylor. The new company provides mobile marketing services and solutions to the motor racing and automotive industries. He was also appointed President of Wayne Taylor Racing in January 2014, and spent a year developing the team's commercial program. \n\nMichael is an expert in Customer Relationship Management programs and strategy. A number of articles written by him about CRM and loyalty have been published by leading South African journals. He has also developed and been awarded a provisional patent for his innovative Mobile Phone and Internet CRM program which provides brand owners and consumers with a fully integrated mobile phone CRM program, and has co-authored patents for the delivery of MMS messages to mobile phones.\n\nIn 1991, Michael co-financed the production of former Yes keyboardist Rick Wakeman's album African Bach through Atlantic Finance and Investment Holdings.\n\nIn 2000, he was the Executive Producer and financier of Miriam Makeba's album \"Homeland\", which was nominated for a Grammy Award as Best World Music Album.\n\nMichael was also a co-owner for five years of The Blues Room, which was voted the top live music venue in Johannesburg six times in a row.\n"}
{"id": "50614313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50614313", "title": "Minerals and Energy Advisory Council", "text": "Minerals and Energy Advisory Council\n\nThe Minerals and Energy Advisory Council is an entity which represents the interests of resources and energy companies to the Government of South Australia. It was formed in 2015 in a merger of the Resources Industry Development Board and the Resources and Energy Sector Infrastructure Council. It is in a partnership with the Olympic Dam Task Force. In 2016, the MEAC discussed the future use of small modular nuclear reactors in South Australia and the need to legalise their deployment. The MEAC also prepared a report on the findings of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle Royal Commission to present to Minister Tom Koutantonis.\n\nAs of May 2016 its members are:\n"}
{"id": "381424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381424", "title": "Most favoured nation", "text": "Most favoured nation\n\nIn international economic relations and international politics, \"most favoured nation\" (MFN) is a status or level of treatment accorded by one state to another in international trade. The term means the country which is the recipient of this treatment must nominally receive equal trade advantages as the \"most favoured nation\" by the country granting such treatment. (Trade advantages include low tariffs or high import quotas.) In effect, a country that has been accorded MFN status may not be treated less advantageously than any other country with MFN status by the promising country. There is a debate in legal circles whether MFN clauses in bilateral investment treaties include only substantive rules or also procedural protections.\n\nThe members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) agree to accord MFN status to each other. Exceptions allow for preferential treatment of developing countries, regional free trade areas and customs unions. Together with the principle of national treatment, MFN is one of the cornerstones of WTO trade law.\n\n\"Most favoured nation\" relationships extend \"reciprocal\" bilateral relationships following both GATT and WTO norms of reciprocity and non-discrimination. In bilateral reciprocal relationships a particular privilege granted by one party only extends to other parties who reciprocate that privilege, while in a multilateral reciprocal relationship the same privilege would be extended to the group that negotiated a particular privilege. The \"non-discriminatory\" component of the GATT/WTO applies a \"reciprocally\" negotiated privilege to all members of the GATT/WTO without respect to their status in negotiating the privilege.\n\nThe earliest form of the most favoured nation status can be found as early as in the 11th century. Today's concept of the most favoured nation status starts to appear in the 18th century, which is when the division of conditional and unconditional most favoured nation status also began. In the early days of international trade, \"most favoured nation\" status was usually used on a dual-party, state-to-state basis. A nation could enter into a \"most favoured nation\" treaty with another nation. In the treaty of Madrid in 1667 Spain granted England \"most favoured nation\" trading status. With the Jay Treaty in 1794, the US also granted the same to Britain.\n\nAfter World War II, tariff and trade agreements were negotiated simultaneously by all interested parties through the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which ultimately resulted in the World Trade Organization in 1995. The World Trade Organization requires members to grant one another \"most favoured nation\" status. A \"most favoured nation\" clause is also included in the majority of the numerous bilateral investment treaties concluded between capital exporting and capital importing countries after World War II.\n\nTrade experts consider MFN clauses to have the following benefits:\n\nAs MFN clauses promote non-discrimination among countries, they also tend to promote the objective of free trade in general.\n\nGATT members recognized in principle that the \"most favoured nation\" rule should be relaxed to accommodate the needs of developing countries, and the UN Conference on Trade and Development (established in 1964) has sought to extend preferential treatment to the exports of the developing countries.\n\nAnother challenge to the \"most favoured nation\" principle has been posed by regional trade blocs such as the European Union and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which have lowered or eliminated tariffs among the members while maintaining tariff walls between member nations and the rest of the world. Trade agreements usually allow for exceptions to allow for regional economic integration.\n\nIn the 1990s, continued \"most favoured nation\" status for the People's Republic of China by the United States created controversy because of its sales of sensitive military technology and China's serious and continuous persecution of human rights. China's MFN status was made permanent on December 27, 2001. All of the former Soviet states, including Russia, were granted MFN status in 1996. On a bilateral level, however, the United States could not grant MFN status to some members of the former Soviet Union, including the Russian Federation, because of the Jackson-Vanik amendment. This presented an obstacle to those countries' accession to the WTO. At the urging of Vice President Joe Biden, the Jackson-Vanik amendment was repealed with Magnitsky Act (which attempts to punish human rights violations without hampering trade) on December 14, 2012.\n\nIn 1998, in the United States, \"most favoured nation status\" has been renamed \"permanent normal trade relations\" (NTR) as all but a handful of countries had this status already. The country gives preferential treatment to some of its trading partners without this status. This is based on the U.S. Supreme Court interpretation of MFN principle as a mere prohibition to enact discriminatory legislation concerning duties on goods of like character imported from an MFN partner. The court ruled that MFN does not constrain the U.S. from giving out special privileges to other countries.\n\nThe ideas behind MFN policies can first be seen in US foreign policy during the opening of Japan in the mid to late 1850s, when they were included as a clause in the Commercial Treaty of 1858, which signalled the opening of the Japanese market.\n\nSince 1998, the term normal trade relations (NTR) has replaced most favoured nation in all U.S. statutes. This change was included in section 5003 of the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-206). However, Title IV of the Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618) established conditions on U.S. MFN/NTR tariff treatment to certain non-market economies, one of which is certain freedom-of-emigration requirements (better known as the Jackson-Vanik amendment). The act authorizes the president to waive a country’s full compliance with Jackson-Vanik under specified conditions, and this must be renewed by June 3 of each year. Once the president does so, the waiver is automatic unless Congress passes (and avoids or overturns a presidential veto of) a disapproval resolution.\n\nMFN/NTR status for China, a non-market economy, which had been originally suspended in 1951, was restored in 1980 and was continued in effect through subsequent annual Presidential extensions. Following the massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square in 1989, however, the annual renewal of China’s MFN status became a source of considerable debate in the Congress; and legislation was introduced to terminate China’s MFN/NTR status or to impose additional conditions relating to improvements in China’s actions on various trade and non-trade issues. Agricultural interests generally opposed attempts to block MFN/NTR renewal for China, contending that several billion dollars annually in current and future U.S. agricultural exports could be jeopardized if that country retaliated. In China’s case, Congress agreed to permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) status in P.L. 106-286, President Clinton signed into law on October 10, 2000. PNTR paved the way for China’s accession to the WTO in December 2001; it provides U.S. exporters of agricultural products the opportunity to benefit from China’s WTO agreements to reduce trade barriers and open its agricultural markets.\n\nMFN status to Pakistan, Bangladesh and Vietnam, but review on withdrawal MFN status of Pakistan.\n\nThere are increasing calls in Pakistan to grant the MFN status to China. During the negotiations for the $6.64 billion bailout package from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Pakistan had given an undertaking that it would take positive steps to grant MFN status to India.\n\nA most favoured nation clause (also called a most favoured customer clause or most favoured licensee clause<nowiki>) is a contract provision in which a seller (or licensor) agrees to give the buyer (or licensee) the best terms it makes available to any other buyer (or licensee). In some contexts, the use of such clauses may become commonplace, such as when online ebook retailers contract with publishers for the supply of e-books.</nowiki> Use of such clauses, in some contexts, may provoke concerns about anticompetitive influences and antitrust violations, while in other contexts, the influence may be viewed as procompetitive.\n\nOne example where most favoured nation clauses may appear is in institutional investment advisory contracts, where if a certain number of conditions are met, one client may be entitled to the lowest fee offered to other clients with a substantially identical investment strategy and the same or lower level of assets under management.\n\nThe most favoured nation clause can also be included in an agreement between a state and a company or an investor. This involves the provision of special privileges and advantages although the state cannot use contractual mechanisms to avoid its MFN treatment obligations with other countries. Unlike the relationship among states where a nation accorded an MFN status cannot be treated less advantageously than another, the host nation does not breach MFN treatment if it provides different privileges to different investors. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development clarified this when it stated that \"a host country cannot be obliged to enter into an individual investment contract\" and that \"freedom of contract prevails over the MFN standard.\" This general principle, however, is not absolute. \n\nThe current EU competition law position is that MFN clauses will infringe Article 101(i) if in the individual circumstances of the case result in an appreciable adverse effect on competition in the European Union. This is likely to happen when the parties to the agreement have substantial market power.\n\nIt is recognised by EU courts and regulators that such clauses are widely used in a number of industries including most topically with online travel agents. However the regulatory tide in the EU appears to be turning against the use of these clauses. In a number of recent EU cases in the UK and Germany, MFNs have been condemned when used by companies with significant market power.\n\nIn January 2014, the UK competition regulator, the Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) accepted binding commitments from leading on-line booking platforms, Expedia and Booking.com to alter the way they operated their MFN clauses with a major hotel chain International Hotel Group. The decision is being appealed by the price comparison website Skyscanner, and supported by online travel agent, Skoosh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125917", "title": "National Business Review", "text": "National Business Review\n\nThe National Business Review (or NBR) is a weekly, national New Zealand newspaper and online publication aimed at the business sector.\n\nBusinessman Barry Colman was the \"NBR's\" publisher for 24 years, after buying it from John Fairfax & Sons in the 1980s. He sold it to Todd Scott in 2012.\n\nThe publication's website has a paywall model, where businesses and individual subscribers pay to access certain content. As of June 2016, the \"NBR\" had more than 4000 paying subscribers.\n\nThe \"NBR\" launched an online radio platform in March 2015, NBR Radio, and in early 2017 it launched a video platform, NBR View, which is headed by broadcasters Susan Wood and Simon Dallow.\n\nIt has journalists based in Auckland and Wellington.\n\nThe publication produces an annual \"Rich List\" with the estimated wealth of the richest New Zealanders.\n\nDuring the term of the 5th Labour government, \"NBR\" produced a feature called \"Crony Watch\", which it intended to report on cronyism in government. The feature was discontinued in late 2008, as the new National government took office, but resumed in 2018 after National's term ended, and the 6th Labour government took office.\n\n"}
{"id": "42825737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42825737", "title": "Nominee trust", "text": "Nominee trust\n\nA nominee trust is an arrangement whereby one or more persons appoint a \"trustee\" to be listed on legal title, or other documents, on their behalf. The arrangement is simple and passive, the trustee is to do nothing except what they are directed to do by the beneficiaries. Technically it is not a trust but an agency arrangement, although it has been characterized as a hybrid between a traditional trust and an agency relationship. One use of the nominee trust is to avoid reporting the ownership of real estate on the public record. The deed, or other filed document lists the trustee, but not the undisclosed principals. Another use is to facilitate transfer of real property without involving the county recorder.\n\nUnlike a trust, the trustee does not have legal title, which remains in the \"beneficiaries\". Therefore, the trustee does not file a tax return with regard to income on trust property, as they would in an actual trust. The nominee trust is also an exception to the general rule that the capacity of a trustee is separate from the capacity of an agent. The common law may apply principles of the law of bailment to the nominee trust in some instances. The trustee is an agent of the beneficiaries who merely follows their specific directions. For bankruptcy purposes, the directed agency feature of a nominee trust prevents the trust itself from being a debtor-person. Therefore, a nominee trust cannot declare bankruptcy. Debts contracted by the trustee in his trustee capacity are debts of the beneficiaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "5891684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5891684", "title": "Optiarc", "text": "Optiarc\n\nOptiarc is a brand of optical desk drives owned by a US company Vinpower, Inc.\n\nInitially Optiarc was established on April 3, 2006 as a joint venture between Sony Corporation (55% shares) and NEC Corporation (45% shares). The company, named Sony NEC Optiarc, focused on manufacturing optical disk drives primarily for the OEM desktop and notebook PC markets.\n\nOn September 11, 2008, it was announced that Sony would take over NEC's 45% share, making Optiarc a wholly owned subsidiary of Sony, to be called Sony Optiarc. This took effect on December 5, 2008\n\nIn March 2013, Sony closed its Optiarc optical disk division, laying off about 400 employees globally.\n\nIn 2017, a US company Vinpower, whose main business was manufacturing optical disc duplicators for the commercial market, acquired rights to the Optiarc brand and product line.\n\nSimilar joint ventures in the data storage industry:\n\n"}
{"id": "5507724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5507724", "title": "Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams", "text": "Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams\n\nPeopleware: Productive Projects and Teams is a 1987 book on the social side of software development, specifically managing project teams. It was written by software consultants Tom DeMarco and Tim Lister, from their experience in the world of software development. This book was revised in 2013.\n\n\"Peopleware\" is a popular book about software organization management. The first chapter of the book claims, \"The major problems of our work are not so much \"technological\" as \"sociological\" in nature\". The book approaches sociological or 'political' problems such as group chemistry and team jelling, \"flow time\" and quiet in the work environment, and the high cost of turnover. Other topics include the conflicts between individual work perspective and corporate ideology, corporate entropy, \"teamicide\" and workspace theory.\n\nThe authors presented most subjects as principles backed up by some concrete story or other information. As an example, the chapter \"Spaghetti Dinner\" presents a fictional example of a manager inviting a new team over for dinner, then having them buy and prepare the meal as a group, in order to produce a first team success. Other chapters use real-life stories or cite various studies to illustrate the principles being presented.\n\nThe second edition kept the original content with only a few changes or corrections. The bulk of the new content was in a new section at the end. The new section's chapters revisited some of the concepts of the original chapters with changes and added new ones.\nThe eBook PDF version published by DorsetHouse was not searchable as each page appeared to be an image. The Kindle version is searchable.\nThe new content of the third edition is spread out through the book. There are new chapters, but the original content has also been updated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22660875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22660875", "title": "Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline", "text": "Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline\n\nThe Potomac-Appalachian Transmission Highline (PATH) was a proposed 290 mile 765 kilovolt electric power transmission line designed to supply power from the Amos Substation located in Putnam County, West Virginia, to a proposed electrical substation to be constructed in Frederick County, Maryland. If approved, the transmission line would have been owned and operated by subsidiary companies of Allegheny Energy and the American Electric Power Company. The route proposed would have gone through 13 counties in West Virginia, three counties in Virginia, and Frederick County in Maryland. The endpoint in Maryland would be a proposed electrical substation in Kemptown, MD, that would be in a residential area surrounded by about 1,300 houses. The Kemptown substation would have been the largest substation ever built by Allegheny Power. The project was cancelled by PJM Interconnection in 2011.\n\nInitial applications for regulatory approval to construct the PATH transmission line were filed in 2009. On September 9, 2009, the Maryland Public Service Commission rejected the application as improperly filed. PATH was given 30 days to declare whether they would refile in Maryland, but only announced they were reconsidering their options. On October 19, 2009, the Virginia State Corporation Commission filed a motion to dismiss the PATH application in Virginia, citing inability to adequately analyze the project due to an uncertain Maryland termination point. On October 28, 2009 an attorney for the West Virginia Public Service Commission moved to dismiss the PATH application in West Virginia. Virginia and West Virginia are requesting rejection of the application without prejudice, meaning PATH will be able to refile in those states once they have refiled a proper application in Maryland.\n\nAllegheny Power filed applications with Frederick County for a special exception to locate an electric power substation in agricultural zoned land. On September 15 they met with the Frederick County Planning Commission make a case that this is consistent with the Frederick County Comprehensive Plan. The commission found a substation of this size and at this location to be \"inconsistent with the county's comprehensive plan.\" On September 29, 2010, there was a hearing for the Frederick County Board of Zoning Appeals at which PATH will submit a special exception zoning request. After several hearings, on November 18, 2010, the application for a special exception was denied. On December 20, 2010, Allegheny Power asked the Frederick County Board of Appeals to reconsider, and the board denied this request.\n\nRegional grid manager, PJM Interconnection, \"has several times shifted the date by which the line must be in service to address overloads, from 2012 to 2013 and 2014 and, most recently, to June 2015.\" On December 20, 2010, Allegheny Energy and AEP requested a procedural delay with the Public Service Commission of West Virginia.\n\nOn February 28, 2011 PJM Interconnect requested that FirstEnergy (which took control of Allegheny Power on February 25, 2011) and American Electric Power suspend efforts on PATH. \"Recent dramatic swings in economic forecasts and evolving public policies, particularly with respect to renewable energy, are adding greater uncertainty to our planning studies,\" PJM President and CEO Terry Boston said in a prepared statement. American Electric Power's and FirstEnergy Corp withdrew applications for the project in Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia.\n\nDick Ishler, President of the Citizens Against the Kemptown Electrical Substation (CAKES) says this is a huge victory for the little guy; \"This is but the latest example of David beating Goliath, concerned citizens banding together, in this case, to stop a toxic coal-fired transmission line.\" Will Burns, the Sierra Club attorney who has spent hundreds of hours researching the PATH project is optimistic PJM's order will close the PATH project down; \"We didn't believe this was needed for reliability reasons. We're hoping this will be the last time this will come back again.\" However, PJM could revise the decision at a later time, and the PATH project could be renewed. “If they [PJM] come back and say we need PATH, then we can get the project back up and running. . . . The investment we’ve already made won’t be lost though, because the project is not lost – just suspended,” said Doug Colafella, manager of external communications for FirstEnergy.\n\nIn August 2012, \"the board of PJM Interconnection, which oversees the needs and movement of wholesale electricity in the region, formally removed the project from future plans.\"\n\nIn December 2008 PATH Allegheny Transmission Company, LLC purchased two contiguous properties in Kemptown, Maryland comprising 152.2 acres for $6.83 million. The properties, actively farmed at the time, were sold by the Browning family which held title to one property as a limited partnership and the other property as a limited liability company. The Kemptown properties are bisected by a high tension electrical transmission line owned by the Baltimore Gas and Electric Company and are adjacent to a second high tension electrical transmission line. PATH planned to The Kemptown property was slated by PATH as the location of a large electrical substation. In September 2010, PATH Allegheny Transmission Company, LLC conveyed the property to PATH Allegheny Maryland Transmission Company, LLC for no consideration.\n\nOn August 22, 2017 the two Kemptown properties, along with several other smaller properties in Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia were sold at public auction. F.C. Frederick, Inc. a non-profit soccer club based in Frederick Maryland submitted the winning bids on the Kemptown properties. Settlement on the transaction occurred in October 2017 at a price of $1.008 million. \n\n"}
{"id": "41788615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41788615", "title": "Richard Adkerson", "text": "Richard Adkerson\n\nRichard Adkerson is the current president, CEO and vice chairman of Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. with an established career in the mining sector. He has been in this role since December 2003. He is also known for his past role as chairman of the International Council on Mining and Metals.\n\nAdkerson graduated with highest honours from Mississippi State University with a bachelor's degree in accounting in 1970. He also completed an advanced management program at Harvard Business School.\n\nAdkerson started out as an accountant in the unpredictable oil and gas business throughout the 1970s before being offered his first role at Freeport in 1989. He was a partner and managing director at Arthur Andersen where he managed the company’s oil and gas industry division. Between 1976 and 1978, he was a professional accounting fellow with the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C.\n\nAdkerson was the past chairman of the International Council on Mining and Metals and is currently a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, The Business Council, and the Business Roundtable. He serves on the advisory council of the Kissinger Institute on China and the United States and as a member of the Clinton Global Initiative.\n\nHe serves on the board of directors of the Arizona Commerce Authority, Greater Phoenix Leadership, and the Greater Phoenix Economic Council. He is vice chairman of the National World War II Museum, and also serves on the board of visitors of the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas. Additionally, he is a member of the Mississippi State University Foundation’s board of directors.\n\nIt was revealed in November 2014 that Adkerson made $55 million in 2014, ranking him as the third highest paid US executive.\n\nAdkerson received The American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers Charles F. Rand Memorial Award in 2011 and was named Executive of the Year by the W. P. Carey School of Business Dean’s Council at Arizona State University in 2011. He has been named The Best CEO in Metals and Mining by Institutional Investor magazine for four years running and was named The Copper Man of the Year 2009 by The Copper Club.\n\nAdkerson lives in Phoenix, Arizona and also has a house in New Orleans, which was subject to a well-publicised activist protest against Freeport’s mining activities in Papua, Indonesia. Adkerson has three sons.\n"}
{"id": "23539082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23539082", "title": "Robert Lucas Chance", "text": "Robert Lucas Chance\n\nRobert Lucas Chance (8 October 1782 – 7 March 1865), was the fifth child and eldest son of William Chance (a partner in Nailsea Glassworks) and Sarah Lucas (daughter of John Robert Lucas). He was always known as Lucas Chance.\n\nHe started work at his father's business in Birmingham, at the age of 12, then started his own glass merchant business in London in 1815. This involved many trips to France where he formed alliances with French owners. In 1824 he purchased the British Crown Glass Company, following the death of the owner, Thomas Shutt, for £24,000, which is worth around £1 million in 2009.\n\nHe founded Chance Glass works, then formed a partnership with John Hartley in 1828. After experiencing financial difficulties in 1832, Lucas was then saved by his brother, William, who also became a partner. The partnership with Hartley's sons (who inherited the partnership on their father's death in 1833) was dissolved in 1836 and the business was then named Chance Brothers & Company.\n\nIn 1830, he became great friends with Georges Bontemps, a leading director of a glassworks in France, who would later assist at Chance Brothers following his exile from France. Chance was instrumental in introducing the method of Sheet glass production for making flat glass for (primarily) windows. This would eventually dispose the previous working method of Crown glass. He was also one of the great exponents in removing the crippling excise duty and the Window Tax. Following these actions, the glass trade in England started to flourish.\n\nIn 1851, Chance Brothers supplied the glass to glaze the Crystal Palace, which was probably partly due to Chance's previous links with Joseph Paxton, the architect, when supplying glass for the greenhouses at Chatsworth House.\n\nThe two brothers were noted as being very philanthropic, founding a school (1845), a library and a church, all primarily for the workforce. Lucas Chance died in 1865.\n\n"}
{"id": "3282400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3282400", "title": "Sally Fairfax", "text": "Sally Fairfax\n\nSally Cary Fairfax (1730 – 1811 in Bath, England) was the wife of George William Fairfax (1729–1787), a prominent member of the landed gentry of late colonial Virginia. As such, she was mistress of the Virginia plantation and estate of Belvoir. She is well-remembered for being the woman George Washington was apparently in love with just before his marriage to Martha Dandridge Custis.\n\nSally Cary, as she was born, came from one of Virginia's oldest and wealthiest families. Her forefather, Miles Cary of Bristol, England, first came to America in the mid-17th century and established himself as a Virginian nobleman. Colonel Wilson Cary, Sally's father and a member of the House of Burgesses, inherited one of Virginia's largest fortunes and the family estate, Ceelys on the James. Little is known about his wife and Sally's mother, Sarah, on account of an 1826 fire that destroyed many of the family's records. Out of Colonel Cary's four daughters, the eldest Sally was the most sought-after and a grande belle in Virginian society. Although she had many suitors, George William Fairfax eventually won Sally's favor, and in records found by Wilson Miles Cary, a writer and family historian, their marriage was announced in \"The Virginia Gazette\" in December 1748. After their marriage, Sally and George William moved into the Belvoir estate that had been established in the early 1740s, by his father Col. William Fairfax.\n\nThe Fairfax family, as the Carys, was a living remnant of European feudalism and English aristocracy. Fairfax family members generally held the reins of social and political power in Virginia.\n\nGeorge William's sister, Anne Fairfax, married Lawrence Washington soon after George William's marriage to Sally. Lawrence's adolescent half-brother, George Washington, began visiting Belvoir frequently. Wishing to advance his brother's fortunes, Lawrence introduced George to George William. A friendship grew between the two men, who were close in age. Yet a relationship also blossomed between Sally Fairfax and George Washington. Sally had been well-educated under the Colonel's supervision, and as a young man with limited education and inexperienced in climbing the social ladder, Washington was impressed with this attractive, popular, and intelligent woman—arguably viewing her as the ideal of womanhood. She was a key inspiration for the future President to elevate himself to a higher social, cultural, and intellectual sphere, which is clear in the increasing level of refinement in his letters to her.\n\nWhile serving in the Forbes campaign in September 1758, Washington wrote a particularly famous letter to Sally, telling her that \"Tis true, I profess myself a Votary to Love…I feel the force of her amiable beauties in the recollection of a thousand tender passages that I wish to obliterate, till I am bid to revive them – but experience alas! Sadly reminds me how Impossible this is.\" In another letter, he makes an allusion to the literary characters Juba, prince of Numidia, who loves Cato's daughter Marcia, in the play \"Cato\", by Joseph Addison. This ambiguity makes the question of the relationship's consummation frustrating to historians, and the answer is still unknown.\n\nDespite any feelings he may have felt for Sally Fairfax, Washington married the wealthy Martha Dandridge Custis, perhaps to heighten his social status, but their marriage appears to have been strong. Sally and George William were, in fact, the most frequent visitors to Mount Vernon, implying that any inkling the spouses had of previous indiscretions (or flirtation) was politely ignored.\n\nThe happy foursome separated in 1773 when the Fairfaxes repaired to England to attend to family matters. Thereafter, George William's fortunes were crushed. As a Loyalist, he had every intention of returning to America after the 1776 insurrection was over, but the success of the Revolution prevented either of them from ever returning. He died in 1787 and Sally then lived alone in Bath until her death in 1811.\n\nThere were signs of regret on Sally's part in the end. She wrote to her sister-in-law in 1788: \"I know now that the worthy man is to be preferred to the high-born who has not merit to recommend him…when we enquire into the family of these mighty men we find them the very lowest of people.\" Washington, too, confesses to Sally in a letter that she was the passion of his youth and that not all the glories of the Revolution, not even the splendors of the Presidency, had \"been able to eradicate from my mind those happy moments, the happiest in my life, which I have enjoyed in your company.\"\n\nNote: All excerpts from correspondence have been taken from Wilson Miles Cary's \"Sally Cary: A Long Hidden Romance of Washington's Life.\" (See Bibliography)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15932120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15932120", "title": "Screen Digest", "text": "Screen Digest\n\nScreen Digest Ltd is a company providing business intelligence, research and analysis on the global media markets based in London, United Kingdom, that has grown out of a monthly journal of that name that was founded in 1971. It was acquired by the technology researcher iSuppli in 2010, which was in turn acquired by information services company IHS Inc.\n\n\"Screen Digest\" was founded in 1971 by journalist and documentary film-maker John Chittock, then film and video correspondent of the Financial Times, together with his business partner and wife Joy Chittock. Initially it was a news digest containing abstracts of a range of media, including film and cinema, television and in particular the nascent video sector and with editorial emphasis on the relevance and brevity of stories.\n\nFrom the first issue, it has been characterised by the use of icons to identify the broad media subject area of each news story and the inclusion of contact information for companies and organisations mentioned in news items. Other features from the start were the inclusion in the subscription of a free binder and detailed annual index, based on the concept of acting as a journal of record.\n\nIn February 1972 a four-page centre section on yellow paper was introduced, initially to carry a page of reference material and articles from members of the industry. Among early contributors were Robert W Sarnoff, then chairman of RCA, film director and teacher Thorold Dickinson and the BBC director-general Charles Curran. This developed into a data-related eight-page section based on the company's recent research. Also in that month David Fisher joined as news editor and led in the shaping of the standards of the commercial publication. He became editor in July 1974 and held that position until January 2011.\n\nIn the mid 1970s, Chittock and Fisher produced a daily half-hour closed-circuit radio programme for delegates at the 1976 British Industrial Film Festival in Brighton and repeated the exercise the following year's 18th International Industrial Film Festival at the National Film Theatre in London.\n\nIn 1976 Screen Digest formed an alliance with Nord Media, a London-based research business owned by Ebav, an audio-visual company jointly owned by the Scandinavian enterprises Esselte and Bonnier. The partnership ended in May 1980.\n\nChittock sold the company in July 1996 to a management team comprising David Fisher, Allan Hardy, Ben Keen and Mark Smith. At that time the company had one full-time employee. Since then Screen Digest has expanded its consultancy and report publishing activities, as well as developing a set of continuously updated online information and data services on Advertising, Broadband Media, Cinema, Games, Mobile Media, Television, Television technology and Video. Screen Digest now counts over 50 full-time employees, with bases in New York and California in the US and Melbourne, Australia, as well as London.\n\nIn 2007, Screen Digest acquired the US video market research company Adams Media Research (AMR), and established Screen Digest Inc. The Global Media Intelligence (GMI) division was formed in 2007 to supply reports on media companies for corporate investors.\n\nIn its association with Nord Media, Screen Digest staged two video conferences: Video Disc 77 and Video Disc and Videogram 79.\n\nIn May 1981 Screen Digest was involved in conference organisation for the International Video Week, co-ordinated by The Economist and held on the South Bank, London. The event was staged again the following year. Several industry lunches were also held in London around this time at which guest speakers included Buckminster Fuller and Rosita Sarnoff, granddaughter of David Sarnoff.\n\nIn 1996 Screen Digest became responsible for arranging the conference programme for the annual European Video Perspective (PEVE) home entertainment conferences and in 2007 acquired the sole ownership of the event.\n"}
{"id": "29207972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29207972", "title": "Shareholder Protection Act", "text": "Shareholder Protection Act\n\nThe proposed Shareholder Protection Act is a bill that was introduced to the United States House of Representatives in 2010. It would amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to require that any solicitation of a proxy, consent, or authorization with respect to any security of an issuer: (1) describe the specific nature and total amount of expenditures proposed for political activities for the forthcoming fiscal year; and (2) provide for a separate shareholder vote to authorize such proposed expenditures. The bill was introduced by Representative Michael Capuano, a Democrat from Massachusetts, partially as a response to the Supreme Court's ruling in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission. As of October 10, 2010, it had 49 cosponsors.\n\nThe bill was introduced as H.R. 4790 on March 9, 2010. It has the official short title: the Shareholder Protection Act. Its official long title is:\n"}
{"id": "1271104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271104", "title": "Spokane, Portland and Seattle Railway", "text": "Spokane, Portland and Seattle Railway\n\nThe Spokane, Portland & Seattle Railway (SP&S) was a United States-based railroad incorporated in 1905. It was a joint venture by the Great Northern Railway and the Northern Pacific Railway to build a railroad along the north bank of the Columbia River. Remnants of the line are currently operated by BNSF Railway and the Portland and Western Railroad.\n\nThe railroad was chartered in 1905 by James J. Hill to connect the two transcontinental railroads owned by him, the Northern Pacific (NP) and Great Northern (GN), to Portland, Oregon from Spokane, Washington, to gain a portion of the lumber trade in Oregon, a business then dominated by E.H. Harriman's Union Pacific and Southern Pacific railroads. Construction began in 1906 under the name Portland & Seattle Railway, proceeding eastward from Vancouver, Washington. 1906 also saw the start of construction of the line between Vancouver and Portland, including work on three major new bridges, crossing the Columbia River, the Oregon Slough and the Willamette River. The northernmost of these was the first bridge of any kind to be built across the lower Columbia River.\n\nDespite legal challenges from Harriman, within a year the line had been built as far as Pasco, Washington along the Columbia River, where it connected with NP. The first section to open was from Pasco west to Cliffs (near Maryhill), a length of , on December 15, 1907. Operation was extended west to Lyle, further west, on January 15, 1908, as construction continued on the section from Pasco to Vancouver. \nIn January 1908 \"Spokane\" was added to the railroad's name, making it the Spokane, Portland & Seattle Railway. SP&S freight and passenger service (from Pasco) to Portland was inaugurated in November 1908. By 1909 the railroad had completed construction of its line up to Spokane along the Snake River. In 1910 SP&S gained control of the Oregon Electric interurban railway, which the Great Northern had acquired two years before. Under the control of the SP&S the railroad was extended southward to Eugene, Oregon by 1912. SP&S also operated a second subsidiary railroad in western Oregon, the Oregon Traction Company, which owned a route to Seaside, Oregon. \n\nA third route on which the SP&S operated extended southward from Wishram, Washington to Bend, Oregon was the Oregon Trunk Railroad. Edward Harriman's Oregon & Washington Railway & Navigation Company also was building a railroad south from the Columbia River to Bend resulting in a railroad war in which each railroad attempted to sabotage the other. In the end, the railroad opened using mostly the track of the Oregon Trunk, with a short portion of the Oregon & Washington Railway & Navigation Company track, and both railroads used the route (an arrangement that still exists with BNSF owning the majority of the line and UP having trackage rights).\n\nDuring World War II the SP&S carried war materials to the Pacific Theatre; new industries located along the Columbia River, taking advantage of cheap electricity from hydroelectric dams on the river. New industries served by the SP&S included aluminum plants, sawmills, chemical factories and grain elevators.\n\nIn 1954 an SP&S train derailed after hitting a rockslide on the route to Bend, Oregon. Part of the train landed in the Deschutes River, including a boxcar, which landed in a rapid that was later named \"Boxcar Rapids\" after the incident, which killed all crew members.\n\nThe SP&S's passenger operations mostly involved hosting connections with parents' trains, such as the \"Empire Builder\" and \"North Coast Limited\", which were combined to form the Streamliner (#1/#2). \"Oriental Limited\", \"Mainstreeter\", and \"Western Star\" connected with (#3/#4). However, some of these SP&S trains were named. The \"Inland Empire Express\" (daytime) and \"North Bank Limited\" (overnight) provided daily, through service between Portland (Union Station) and Spokane. The \"Columbia River Express\" (#5/#6) operated between Portland and Pasco, connecting at Pasco with Northern Pacific #5/#6 for service to/from Spokane.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29565484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29565484", "title": "Sumitomo Chemical", "text": "Sumitomo Chemical\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25040559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25040559", "title": "The One Minute Manager", "text": "The One Minute Manager\n\nThe One Minute Manager is a very short book by Ken Blanchard and Spencer Johnson. The brief volume tells a story, recounting three techniques of an effective manager: one-minute goals, one-minute praisings and one-minute reprimands. Each of these takes only a minute but is purportedly of lasting benefit.\n\nIt was followed by a sequel, \"Leadership and the One Minute Manager\", by Ken Blanchard, Patricia Zigarmi and Drea Zigarmi, which laid out Blanchard's Situational Leadership II concept.\n\nThe concept has been called a management fad, and derivative of management by objectives, itself derived from the business planning literature.\nOne critic called it \"the executive equivalent of paper-training your dog.\"\n\nWhile the book was becoming a best-seller, the \"Wall Street Journal\" ran an article exposing it as a heavily plagiarized document.\nThe article asserted that almost half of the book was lifted directly from an article previously published by University of Massachusetts at Amherst professor Arthur Elliott Carlisle. Blanchard and Johnson offered conflicting stories on their reasons for not citing the original author, including an insistence, later abandoned, that one of them helped Carlisle write the original article.\n\n"}
{"id": "10819647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10819647", "title": "Theresa Fair Oelrichs", "text": "Theresa Fair Oelrichs\n\nTheresa Alice \"Tessie\" Fair (June 30, 1871 – November 22, 1926) was an American socialite. She went from being the daughter of a hard-scrabble California miner to become heiress to a fortune in Comstock Lode gold and silver, the wife of steamship magnate Hermann Oelrichs, mistress of the Rosecliff estate in Newport, Rhode Island, and a member of the elite \"Triumvirate\" of American society.\n\nTessie was born on June 30, 1871 in Virginia City, Nevada. Her father, James Graham Fair, was born in Clogher, County Tyrone, and immigrated to the United States from Belfast, Ireland in 1843 at age twelve. He worked the California mines until 1860, when he moved to Nevada to work the newly-discovered traces there. He met Theresa Rooney, an innkeeper's daughter, and they wed in 1861. Tessie grew up in mining camps as her father prospected for gold and was the eldest of four children born to her parents, including Virginia (nicknamed \"Birdie\"), Charles and James, Jr.\n\nIn 1873, her father and three partners, discovered the \"Big Bonanza\" in Virginia City, Nevada, which became the largest single deposit of gold and silver ever found. More than $100 million dollars worth of gold (over $2.5 billion in today's currency) was extracted from that mine before it was exhausted in 1898. Fair used his share to expand into railroads and real estate, generating a fortune of $50 million. Money led to a dissolute life of affairs and drinking for him, and in 1883 his wife filed for divorce, getting custody of Tessie and Virginia.\n\nIn 1889, in Newport, Tessie met steamship tycoon Hermann Oelrichs, whom she wed the following year on June 3, 1890. The lavish wedding was held in San Francisco. James Fair's gift to his daughter was one million dollars, but even so he was not invited to the wedding. Now a wealthy heiress, Tessie moved east permanently to join the social circles of New York, Newport and Europe. Tessie later gave birth to her only child:\n\n\nShe publicly acted as a devoted and happy wife, but privately, she and Hermann were estranged. When news reached her that he survived the massive San Francisco earthquake of 1906, she hoped for a reconciliation. Hermann returned east, so she prepared a lavish supper for them together. When he did not attend, she was enraged. Unreconciled, Hermann later died of a heart attack. He left his full estate to his brother Charles May Oelrichs, thinking that Tessie would be content with her own fortune, but Tessie contested the will. Eventually, they settled the dispute and she received half of the estate.\n\nOelrichs died at Newport on November 22, 1926. After a funeral in the \"beautiful blue and gold tapestry room\" at Rosecliff, which was attended by Charles M. Oelrichs and his wife among others, she was buried at Woodlawn Cemetery, The Bronx, New York City. Her son inherited the vast majority of her estate with the provision that should he die without issue, her sister Virginia would be the residuary legatee. Her son later sold her stately home in 1941, and today, Rosecliff stands open to the public.\n\nTessie's social peers, Alva Vanderbilt and Grace Vanderbilt, already had expensive mansions in Newport, which were called \"summer cottages\" by the elite of the day. Tessie set her sights on being mistress of her own grand estate, so she commissioned architect Stanford White to renovate their recently purchased Rosecliff on Bellevue Avenue. Begun in 1899, and purchased from the estate of George Bancroft, Rosecliff was modeled after the Grand Trianon at Versailles, and was completed in 1902 with a final cost of $2.5 million. In 1899, Tessie orchestrated a coup for the family by marrying her younger sister Birdie off to William K. Vanderbilt II, son of Alva and William K. Vanderbilt and brother of Consuelo Vanderbilt, Duchess of Marlborough, in a wedding that was extensively covered in the society pages. \n\nIn New York, they lived at 1 East 57th Street in \"the big house at the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and Fifth-seventh Street,\" which was later occupied by the New York Trust Company. Oelrichs then lived at 1 East 72nd Street.\n\nAfter the \"retirement\" of Caroline Schermerhorn Astor (The \"Mrs. Astor\"), Tessie ruled American society as one of the so-called Triumvirate, made up of herself, Mamie Fish and Alva Belmont. Where Alva was the extravagant hostess and Mamie threw exotic and often raucous parties, Tessie was known as the martinet, the drill sergeant, of the three, enforcing the rules of polite society. Hermann's niece Blanche once described her as \"strongly addicted to Society as business.\"\n"}
{"id": "10029360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10029360", "title": "Trevor Flugge", "text": "Trevor Flugge\n\nTrevor James Flugge ( ; born 1 February 1947) is an Australian farmer and businessman. He is best known as a former official of the Australian Wheat Board (AWB). He joined the board in 1984, was chair of AWB in 1995-2002, and was present at meetings in Iraq which were linked to the Oil-for-Food scandal, and an inquiry by the United Nations.\n\nFlugge was educated at Aquinas College, Perth, and became a farmer in the Katanning area.\n\nIn 1987, he was an unsuccessful National Party candidate for the seat of O'Connor (against Wilson Tuckey) at the Australian election that year.\n\nFlugge has also served as chair of the Australian Wheat Growers Association, and as a board member of the major diversified company Wesfarmers\n\nTrevor Flugge was chair of AWB until March 2002, when he was voted off the board by A-class shareholders (wheat growers). He was appointed a consultant to AWB after the vote and travelled to Baghdad later that year, with AWB chairman Andrew Lindberg, to rescue an AWB wheat export deal with Saddam Hussein's regime.\n\nThere were later accusations that AWB had paid bribes to secure the export contract. AWB officials agreed to pay $2 million to the Iraqi regime, which would then allow wheat exports to resume. This payment was made by inflating the price of wheat contracts administered by the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program.\n\nFollowing the 2003 invasion and overthrow of the Hussein regime, Flugge was made a senior adviser to the Iraqi agriculture department.\n\nAfter the bribery became public in 2005, Flugge denied to the UN's Volker inquiry that he knew about AWB's payments to the Hussein regime. Flugge was also called before an Australian government investigation in 2005, the Cole inquiry. When giving evidence to the latter inquiry, Flugge frequently claimed to have no knowledge of matters discussed at meetings he attended, due to hearing loss.\n"}
{"id": "2784558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2784558", "title": "Walter Butler (French businessman)", "text": "Walter Butler (French businessman)\n\nWalter Butler is a French/American businessman. He is the founder of Butler Capital Partners, an investment and private equity firm.\n\nWalter Butler was born in Brazil to a Brazilian mother and an American father. He moved from Brazil to France when he was a child following his parents' divorce. \n\nButler attended Instituts d'études politiques de Bordeaux where he received a Master of Law degree. He later attended ÉNA, an elite school for high-level civil servants, where he received a degree in 1980.\n\nHe is a United States citizen.\n\nAfter completing studies at the ÉNA, Walter Butler served from 1983 to 1986 as an Inspector of Finances at the French Ministry of Finances. From 1986 to 1988, he was an advisor to the Minister of Culture and Communication François Léotard. In this position, he played a key role in the privatization of French television channel TF1, working alongside Jean-Marie Messier.\n\nIn 1988, he joined investment bank Goldman Sachs in New York. From 1988 to 1990, he was executive director of Goldman Sachs in New York, then London. He has stated that his experience with the firm was where much of his business knowledge was formed. \n\nIn 1991, he founded Butler Capital Partners, an investment fund and venture capital business.\n\nThrough Butler Capital Partners, Butler is known for his involvement with companies including Flo, Sernam, Ipsos, BDDP, PSG and Virgin. Butler is also known for his role in the privatization of ferry company National Corsican-Mediterranean Co., SNCM, in 2006.\n\nIn 2008, Butler became a stakeholder in Virgin Megastores when Butler Capital Partners purchased a majority stake in Virgin Group from Lagardère.\n\nIn 2015, Butler led the acquisition of Isodev, an SME loan platform that had been liquidated earlier that year.\n\nIn 2018, Butler became the largest shareholder of Noerden, a Shanghai-based startup that manufactures smart watches and other devices.\n"}
{"id": "26445045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26445045", "title": "William Cadell", "text": "William Cadell\n\nWilliam Archibald Cadell of Cockenzie (1708–1777) was a Scottish industrialist, one of the pioneers of the industrial revolution on the Firth of Forth. He was a member of a merchant family involved in the import of iron from Russia and Sweden.\n\nHe and his son, also William (baptised 1737, died 1819), were founders with Samuel Garbett and John Roebuck, of the Carron Iron Works, in 1759, originally known as Roebuck, Garbett & Cadells.\n\nHis daughter Christian Cadell married Thomas Edington (1742-1811) who became joint proprietor at Cramond Iron Works before establishing his own independent company in Glasgow in 1797: Thomas Edington & Son. Their grandson was the geologist Thomas Edington FRSE (1814-1859).\n\nHis great, great grandson was the geologist Henry Cadell.\n"}
{"id": "2111067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2111067", "title": "Yaron Brook", "text": "Yaron Brook\n\nYaron Brook (; born May 23, 1961) is an Israeli-American entrepreneur, writer, and activist. He is an Objectivist and the current chairman of the board at the Ayn Rand Institute, where he was executive director from 2000 to 2017. He is also the co-founder of BH Equity Research and the author of several books, in which he analyzes a variety of topics from an Objectivist perspective.\n\nYaron Brook was born and raised in Israel. His parents were Jewish socialists from South Africa. When he was sixteen, a friend lent him a copy of Ayn Rand's \"Atlas Shrugged\", leading him to abandon the socialism taught to him by his parents and to embrace Objectivism. After graduating from high school, he served as a first sergeant in Israeli military intelligence (1979–1982) and then earned a Bachelor of Science in civil engineering in 1986 from the Technion – Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa. In 1987, he moved to the United States, where he received his Master of Business Administration in 1989 and Doctor of Philosophy in finance in 1994 from the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nBrook began his career as a finance professor at the Leavey School of Business at Santa Clara University, a position he held for seven years and which won him awards of recognition.\n\nIn 1998, he co-founded a financial advisory firm with Robert Hendershott, BH Equity Research, where he continues today as managing director and chairman.\n\nBrook became an associate of leading Objectivist intellectuals, such as philosopher Leonard Peikoff, and in 1994, he co-founded Lyceum International, a company that organized Objectivist conferences and offered distance-learning courses. In 2000, he left Santa Clara University to succeed Michael Berliner as President and Executive Director of the Ayn Rand Institute, which was then located in Marina del Rey, California. In 2002, ARI relocated to Irvine, California.\n\nBrook's philosophical activism includes teaching and public lecturing at events and conferences held predominantly in North America, speaking and debating at numerous American universities, delivering seminars for businesses and corporations in the United States and abroad, and writing opinion editorials for leading newspapers and websites. Speaking venues also include conferences, and professional and community groups. His subjects span a wide range of current events and philosophical issues, including: the causes of the financial crisis, the morality of capitalism, and ending the growth of the state, each discussed with Objectivism at its foundation. In recent years, he has spoken to audiences throughout the world, including those in China, Australia, Brazil, Argentina, Greece, Iceland, Bulgaria, Israel, Guatemala, and England.\n\nBrook is a columnist for \"Forbes\", and his articles have been featured in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"USA Today\", \"Investor's Business Daily\", and many other publications. A frequent guest on a variety of radio and national television programs, he is the co-author of \"Neoconservatism: An Obituary for an Idea\" and \"Free Market Revolution: How Ayn Rand's Ideas Can End Big Government\", and contributing author of \"Winning the Unwinnable War: America's Self-Crippled Response to Islamic Totalitarianism.\" His newest book is \"Equal Is Unfair: America's Misguided Fight Against Income Inequality,\" co-authored with Don Watkins.\n\nBrook promotes the Objectivist ethical position that rational selfishness is a moral virtue and that altruism is evil. In addition to teaching classes on his moral view of self-interest at ARI and as a guest lecturer at Brown University, Brook also defended the egoist position in a 2006 debate with former US Senator Robert Krueger at Texas State University, San Marcos.\n\nBrook is an outspoken proponent of \"laissez-faire\" capitalism. In appearances on CNBC and in several articles and speeches, he has defended the rights of corporations and businessmen and upheld the virtues of capitalism. In a January 7, 2007 editorial in \"USA Today\", he defended multimillion-dollar CEO pay packages against the attempt by government to regulate them. In a 2010 interview, Brook called the efforts of Democrats to raise taxes on multi-millionaires \"totally immoral.\" He criticized George W. Bush for signing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which regulates corporate accounting practices. He has also argued that antitrust laws are \"unjust and make no sense ethically or economically.\"\n\nOn gun rights, Brook has stated, \"The government certainly has a role in regulating ownership of weapons\", but he states that it is a \"complex\" issue to do with the philosophy of law. He is inclined to draw the line of prohibition between \"offensive\" weapons, such as tanks and weapons of mass destruction, and \"defensive\" weapons.\n\nBrook has stated that he does not believe regulation has any role to play in protecting the environment and believes human-originated climate change to be a doomsday scenario propagated by environmentalists. He has indicated that as an ideological iteration it goes back decades, and that he believes global warming is \"another in a line of failed scare stories,\" with preferential funding given to researchers promoting it. Drawing a comparison between the role played by low quality housing and infrastructure in the 2010 Haiti earthquake and the contrasting resilience of more developed countries, he suggests the solution to supposed environmental changes is \"laissez-faire\" capitalism and the resultant rise in standard of living.\n\nAmerican foreign policy\n\nBrook has gained much attention for his application of Objectivist moral philosophy to the question of American foreign policy, particularly on the Middle East.\n\nHe advocates an American foreign policy of rational self-interest that would serve only to protect the rights of Americans, as opposed to any form of government monetary aid, state-building, or spreading democracy. He has criticized the foreign policy of Ron Paul and other libertarians.\n\nHe advocates the withdrawal of US troops from Europe, and US withdrawal from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the United Nations, calling the latter \"one of the most immoral institutions ever created by man\". He is ambivalent about the World Trade Organization.\n\nBrook calls for an embargo on North Korea, denouncing the regime as \"threatening\" and \"belligerent\", but believes that war is not necessary at present.\n\nWar against Islamic terrorism\n\nBrook argues that Islamic terrorists initiated a war against the West because they hate its culture, wealth, love of life, and global influence, and that they attack Israel because of the influence Western culture has had on it. He explicitly rejects the idea that Islamic terrorists attack Western nations because they support Israel or because of any other reason, such as poverty or retaliation.\n\nBrook claims that the West is not at war with terrorism but the ideology of Islamic totalitarianism. He repeatedly says that just like in World War II, the US wasn't at war against Japanese Kamikaze pilots or German tanks, but the ideas of Nazism and Japanese Imperialism.\n\nBrook claims that Islamic totalitarians are Muslims who wish to dictate every part of life from the teachings of Islam, taken to its logical extreme. He believes Islamic totalitarians want to organize their governments according to Islam, and that they wish to spread a global Islamic government across the world, sometimes using legitimate means, but mainly by using physical force, i.e. terrorism. Brook claims that the Islamic totalitarians repeatedly express this, openly.\n\n... it is a movement that believes in conquest ... Islam should rule every aspect of one's life ... they don't believe in separation of religion and state ... and those who disagree are second class citizens or worthy of death, they want an empire in middle east, but their goal ultimately is world domination, and they state this. They are never satisfied with oppressing their own people or the people around them, they want world domination.\n\nMorality of war\n\nBrook has done a fair amount of work to formulate a unique morality of war (but a morality originated by Ayn Rand and also advocated by other Objectivists like Leonard Peikoff, Onkar Ghate, and Craig Biddle).\n\nBrook claims that when the US goes to war, it should only be to protect the rights of its people, and the government must do everything in its power to end the threat to its citizens, as soon as possible, by using overwhelming military force (or the threat of force). If torturing enemy POWs and purposely targeting civilian population centers will end a war against American citizens, Brook is for it. The specific goal of this total war would be to crush the will of the people who started the war against the United States. After the government of the enemy country is destroyed, the United States should leave unless there is a special circumstance in which the people of the defeated country are realistically willing to adopt Western-style governments.\n\nIn his article \"'Just War Theory' vs. American Self-Defense,\" co-authored with Alex Epstein in \"The Objective Standard\", Brook writes:\n\nWithout physical and spiritual support by these states, the Islamic Totalitarian cause would be a hopeless, discredited one, with few if any willing to kill in its name. Thus, the first order of business in a proper response to 9/11 would have been to end state support of Islamic Totalitarianism—including ending the Iranian regime that is its fatherland.\n\nBrook further argues that these Islamic states must be severely attacked in order to crush their will to engage in and support terrorism.\n\nThe US has been attacked first thus it has the \"moral right\" to fight Islamism. The sole moral duty of the United States is to defend its citizens against its enemies by all means, even with the use of the atom bomb if necessary.\n\nWhat specific military actions would have been required post-9/11 to end state support of Islamic Totalitarianism is a question for specialists in military strategy, but even a cursory look at history can tell us one thing for sure: It would have required the willingness to take \"devastating military action against enemy regimes\"—to oust their leaders and prominent supporters, to make examples of certain regimes or cities in order to win the surrender of others, and to inflict suffering on complicit civilian populations, who enable terrorist-supporting regimes to remain in power.\n\nFrom the beginning of the War on Terrorism, Brook has argued that Iran should be the primary target of US retaliation for Sept. 11, secondary targets being Saudi Arabia and Syria.\n\nHe is for waging war on Islamic totalitarian states, but he believes that Bush's \"Forward Strategy of Freedom\" is altruistic, self-defeating, and in opposition to America's national self-interest.\n\nIn his 2006 speech \"Democracy vs. Victory: Why the 'Forward Strategy of Freedom' Had to Fail\" given at the Ford Hall Forum in Boston he said:\n\nOn December 17, 2004, Yaron Brook appeared on The O'Reilly Factor, Impact Segment, \"Aftermath of Fallujah activities\", the context was that an embedded journalist had reported about the shooting of previously disarmed Iraqi soldiers in Fallujah. During this interview he said:\n\nI'm suggesting that we start bringing this war to the civilians, the consequences of this war, to the civilians who are harboring and helping and supporting the insurgents in Fallujah and other places. ... I would like to see the United States turn Fallujah into dust, and tell the Iraqis: If you're going to continue to support the insurgents you will not have homes, you will not have schools, you will not have mosques ...\n\nBrook argued that if \"flattening Fallujah to end the Iraqi insurgency will save American lives, to refrain from [doing so] is morally evil.\"\n\nIsrael\n\nBrook considers Israel to be a morally good nation because its Western-style government protects the rights of its citizens, Arab and Jewish alike, vastly more than neighboring countries. On Zionism, Brooke argued that \"Zionism fused a valid concern - self-preservation amid a storm of hostility - with a toxic premise - ethnically based collectivism and religion\".\n\nBrook advocates morally, but not necessarily financially, supporting Israel, which he sees as a Western ally against Islamic terrorism.\n\nBrook strongly disagrees with many aspects of Israel's policies, including its collectivist and religious influences, and its 'self-sacrificial' foreign policy of giving its enemies land, money, and other goods.\n\nBrook is married and has children. He has a son named Niv.\n\n\n\n"}
