{"id": "28180855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28180855", "title": "1948 Monaco Grand Prix", "text": "1948 Monaco Grand Prix\n\nThe 1948 Monaco Grand Prix was a Grand Prix motor race, held in Monte Carlo on 16 May 1948.\n\nThe first event under a new formula, 1½ litres supercharged or 4½ litres naturally aspirated, it featured a motley crowd of marques. Jean-Pierre Wimille's Simca-Gordini took an early lead, but was overwhelmed by the Maserati 4CLs of Giuseppe Farina and then Luigi Villoresi. Farina would take the win.\n\n"}
{"id": "49048097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49048097", "title": "2015 European Diving Championships – Women's synchronized 10 metre platform", "text": "2015 European Diving Championships – Women's synchronized 10 metre platform\n\n\"Green denotes finalists\"\n"}
{"id": "51792139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51792139", "title": "2016 South Australian blackout", "text": "2016 South Australian blackout\n\nThe South Australian blackout of 2016 was a widespread power outage in South Australia that occurred as a result of storm damage to electricity transmission infrastructure on 28 September 2016. The cascading failure of the electricity transmission network resulted in almost the entire state losing its electricity supply. Kangaroo Island did not lose its supply, as the Kangaroo Island power station had been built to supply the island for the contingency of a failure in the power cable under the Backstairs Passage.\n\nOn the day of the failure, South Australia experienced a violent storm reported as being a once-in-50-year event. There was gale force and storm force wind across wide areas of the state. It included at least two tornadoes in the vicinity of Blyth, which damaged multiple elements of critical infrastructure. The state was hit by at least 80,000 lightning strikes. The wind damaged a total of 23 pylons on electricity transmission lines, including damage on three of the four interconnectors connecting the Adelaide area to the north and west of the state.\n\nThe South Australian power grid is operated by ElectraNet and connected to the National Electricity Market via two interconnectors to Victoria. These are the Heywood interconnector (recently upgraded to 650 MW at 275 kV) in the southeast of the state and the Murraylink (220 MW at 150 kV) HVDC further north, connecting Berri to Red Cliffs in Victoria. The Heywood interconnector had been down for upgrade earlier in the year, and was initially blamed for the widespread outage.\n\nThe weather had resulted in localised power outages throughout the day and by around 3:50 p.m. local time, almost the entire state power grid had been cut out. Early indications were that as the transmission lines in the Mid North failed due to damaged pylons, the automatic safety features in the network isolated the generators to protect both the generation facilities and the end consumers' equipment. Over a short period, this resulted in most of the state's distribution network being powered down as the transmission network acted to protect the infrastructure.\n\nThe preliminary report from the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) identified that problems started 90 seconds before the eventual failure. The first line to trip was a 66 kV line near Adelaide, and it was automatically reset. The first major fault was 47 seconds later when two phases of the 275 kV line between Brinkworth and Templers grounded. The Davenport–Belalie line tripped with one phase to ground, was automatically reset, but tripped again nine seconds later, so was isolated for manual inspection, with the fault estimated to be from Davenport. One second later (7 seconds before the state went dark), the Hallett Wind Farm reduced output by 123 MW. Four seconds later, a third 275 kV transmission line showed a fault, the Davenport–Mount Lock is on the other side of the same towers as Davenport–Belalie, and the fault was estimated to be further on. The damaged power lines caused 5–6 voltage glitches which stressed the ride-through capability of most of the wind farm capacity, causing nine of them to shut down: Finally, all within one second, the Hornsdale Wind Farm reduced output by 86 MW, Snowtown Wind Farm reduced output by 106 MW, the Heywood interconnector flow increased to over 850 MW and both of its circuits tripped out due to the overload. Supply was then lost to the entire South Australian region of the National Electricity Market, as the Torrens Island Power Station, Ladbroke Grove Power Station, Murraylink interconnector and all remaining wind farms tripped.\n\nAEMO identified software settings in the wind farms that prevented repeated restarts once voltage or frequency events occurred too often. The group of wind turbines that could accept 9 ride-throughs in 120 seconds stayed on line through much of the event before the system went black. The rather larger group of turbines that could not accept this many repeated ride-throughs dropped out, instigating the overload and shutdown of the interconnector, and hence the electricity supply. AEMO has suggested better fault ride-through capability for the wind farms. The high wind speed caused 20 MW of wind power to disconnect to prevent overspeed.\n\nAs so much of the network had been shut down, the authorities needed to act carefully to bring it back online and provide a stable network. This was initiated in the first few hours following the start of the outage, initially using the Victorian interconnectors to establish a stable frequency on the network, and gradually add South Australia's power generators to the network and restore power to areas as soon as possible. The initial focus was to restore power to the Adelaide metropolitan area, and suburbs started to regain power within about three hours, and much of the city power was restored by 10 p.m. By the following morning, power had been restored to most of the areas of Adelaide and the areas south and east of it that did not have storm damage to the distribution network. The substantial damage to the transmission network north of Adelaide meant that large areas of the Mid North and Eyre Peninsula did not have power restored within 24 hours, and further damaging weather indicated that it could be at least the end of the weekend before some of those areas were restored.\n\nAEMO had contracts with two \"System Restart Ancillary Services\" (SRAS) providers to help bring the network back up. The Mintaro Emergency Diesel Generator had suffered storm damage, including a cloud-to-ground lightning strike in very close proximity, but would not have been useful anyway due to its location in the network and downed transmission lines. The Quarantine Power Station was unable to start the larger Unit #5 required to provide enough power to restart any of the Torrens Island Power Station units, so Torrens Island needed power from the Victorian interconnector to be restarted. A circuit breaker in the Quarantine Power Station switchyard connecting Torrens Island Power Station and the smaller units at Quarantine Power Station with Unit #5 tripped repeatedly due to in-rush current on the generator transformer and auxiliary transformer, and subsequently ran out of stored energy before Unit #5 could be started.\n\nBy the morning of Friday 30 September 2016, about 10,000 properties had not yet had power restored since the blackout on Wednesday afternoon, and 18,000 more had lost power due to distribution network faults caused by continued stormy weather. An additional transmission line fault near Tumby Bay was only detected as ElectraNet tried to power up the system, and this fault prevented the power generator in Port Lincoln from being used to power the lower Eyre Peninsula.\n\nDue to the extensive nature of the damage, temporary transmission towers were sent by Western Power; these towers can reach a height of 58 metres and take only one day to erect. It is expected that the towers will remain in use for 6 to 12 months while the permanent repairs are made.\n\nThe Flinders Medical Centre, a major hospital in Adelaide's southern suburbs, was affected when the fuel pump for the diesel-powered back-up generator failed after operating for about an hour. As a result, 17 patients were transferred from the intensive care unit to the adjacent Flinders Private Hospital, which still had an operating generator. Several embryos were also lost at Flinders Fertility.\n\nThe zinc smelter operated by Nyrstar at Port Pirie was expected to be shut down for several weeks, as the diesel back-up generator failed after about four hours, and the content of the smelter cooled and solidified.\n\nA number of politicians commented whilst the emergency was unfolding.\nThe Australian Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce told ABC \"[Windpower] wasn't working too well last night, because they had a blackout\", while the Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said state governments had paid \"little or no attention to energy security.\"\n\nEnergy minister Josh Frydenberg said that \"energy security was the (federal) government's \"number one priority\". He later said \"it has to be underlined that this was a major weather event.\"\n\nSouth Australian senator Nick Xenophon said he supported renewable energy but that the state's approach relied too much on wind. South Australian Premier Jay Weatherill said Xenophon had \"jumped the shark\" as the situation was yet to be analysed.\n\nQueensland One Nation senator, Malcolm Roberts urged all governments to \"exit all climate change policies\" while South Australian Greens senator Sarah Hanson-Young said it was \"pathetic\" that people were politicking while emergency service officers and volunteers are flat out responding.\n\nOpposition Leader Bill Shorten accused the Coalition of \"playing politics with what is a natural disaster\" and that there was no link between the storm damage and the state's renewable energy target.\n\nThe Grattan Institute's Tony Wood was reported as saying \"If you've got a wind farm or a coal-fired power station at the end of a transmission line, and that system either is taken out by a storm or is forced to shut down to protect itself from a storm, it doesn't matter what the energy source is\" while Clean Energy Council's Tom Butler said the weather event \"created a fault in the system which has caused the generation to trip offline\" and that \"the Snowtown wind farm, north of Adelaide, was actually helping to prop up the state's power supply ahead of gas power stations as the network was gradually brought back online.\"\n\nVictorian Premier Daniel Andrews told ABC radio that Turnbull had conflated two issues, that \"the poles and wires had blown over\".\n\nFollowing the power outages, the same storm resulted in major flooding, which was dubbed \"unrelenting\" by South Australia Services Minister Peter Malinauskas. A flood emergency was issued for towns and suburbs north of Adelaide. Flood warnings were also issued for the Adelaide hills area.\n\nFurther widespread blackouts occurred beginning late on Tuesday 27 December 2016, with areas losing power for upwards of twelve hours following severe storms causing damage to over 300 powerlines in the electricity distribution network. The storms also caused flooding and wind damage, including property destruction due to fallen trees. A total of 155,000 properties lost power at the peak of the storms, requiring over 1200 repair jobs resulting from over 350 powerlines being damaged. As of 7.30pm on Thursday 29 December, there were more than 11 500 households still without power across the state, some for up to forty-six hours, in regions including the Adelaide Hills, Mid-North, Flinders Ranges, and Murraylands. By 9am on Saturday 31 December, there were still more than 1600 households without power for more than 80 hours, primarily across the Adelaide Hills.\n\nOn 8 February 2017, over 90,000 households in Adelaide lost power for 45 minutes in the middle of a major heatwave. The Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) ordered 100 MW of load shedding, but 300 MW was cut, causing controversy with the state government. The state Energy Minister, Tom Koutsantonis said that the state had spare generation capacity but the market didn't turn that generation on, as the 165 MW second unit at Pelican Point power station had gas and was ready to go. AEMO stated that it had sent notices to all generators, requesting a market response due to increased demand but it did not receive sufficient bids into the market to maintain the supply/demand balance in South Australia. Engie, the operator of Pelican Point, responded that the Market Rules did not permit it to make a market response unless directed by the market operator. This was authorised the next day to avoid a repeat on 9 February. The owner later clarified that it was not allowed to bid into the market if supply cannot be guaranteed, and it did not have a current gas supply contract for the second unit. It was able to respond promptly once directed to do so on 9 February during continuing high temperature weather.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9711116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711116", "title": "21st World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "21st World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 21st World Science Fiction Convention, also known as Discon I, was held August 31–September 2, 1963, at the Statler-Hilton Hotel in Washington, D.C., United States.\n\nFollowing the convention, published \"The Proceedings: Discon\", edited by Richard Eney. The book includes transcripts of lectures and panels given during the course of the convention and includes numerous photographs as well.\n\nThe chairman was George Scithers. The guest of honor was Murray Leinster. The toastmaster was Isaac Asimov. Total attendance was approximately 600.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24462937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24462937", "title": "Accident", "text": "Accident\n\nAn accident, also known as an unintentional injury, is an undesirable, incidental, and an unplanned event that could have been prevented had circumstances leading up to the accident been recognized, and acted upon, prior to its occurrence. Most scientists who study unintentional injury avoid using the term \"accident\" and focus on factors that increase risk of severe injury and that reduce injury incidence and severity.\n\nPhysical examples of accidents include unintended motor vehicle collisions or falls, being injured by touching something sharp, hot, moving objects, contacting electricity or ingesting poison. Non-physical examples are unintentionally revealing a secret or otherwise saying something incorrectly, accidental deletion of data, forgetting an appointment etc.\n\n\n\nPoisons, vehicle collisions and falls are the most common causes of fatal injuries. According to a 2005 survey of injuries sustained at home, which used data from the National Vital Statistics System of the United States National Center for Health Statistics, falls, poisoning, and fire/burn injuries are the most common causes of death.\n\nThe United States also collects statistically valid injury data (sampled from 100 hospitals) through the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System administered by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. This program was revised in 2000 to include all injuries rather than just injuries involving products. Data on emergency department visits is also collected through the National Health Interview Survey. In The U.S. the Bureau of Labor Statistics has available on their website extensive statistics on workplace accidents.\n\nMany models to characterize and analyze accidents have been proposed, which can by classified by type. Notable types and models include:\n\nIshikawa diagrams are sometimes used to illustrate root-cause analysis and five whys discussions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7161451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7161451", "title": "Accident analysis", "text": "Accident analysis\n\nAccident analysis is carried out in order to determine the cause or causes of an accident (that can result in single or multiple outcomes) so as to prevent further accidents of a similar kind. It is part of \"accident investigation or incident investigation.\" These analyses may be performed by a range of experts, including forensic scientists, forensic engineers or health and safety advisers. Accident investigators, particularly those in the aircraft industry, are colloquially known as \"tin-kickers\". Health and safety and patient safety professionals prefer using the term \"incident\" in place of the term \"accident\". Its retrospective nature means that accident analysis is primarily an exercise of directed explanation; conducted using the theories or methods the analyst has to hand, which directs the way in which the events, aspects, or features of accident phenomena are highlighted and explained.\n\nAccident analysis is performed in four steps:\n\nThere exist numerous forms of Accident Analysis methods. These can be divided into three categories:\n\n\nMany models have been described to characterise and analyse accidents. The book \"Enhancing Occupational Safety and Health\" is one source of further details on the different types of models used in accident analysis.\n\nOnce all available data has been collected by accident scene investigators and law enforcement officers, camera matching, photogrammetry or rectification can be used to determine the exact location of physical evidence shown in the accident scene photos.\n\nAccident analysis methods\nRelated Disciplines\n\n"}
{"id": "1151369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1151369", "title": "Ali Dia", "text": "Ali Dia\n\nAly Dia (born 20 August 1965), commonly known as Ali Dia, is a Senegalese former professional footballer who played as a striker.\n\nIn November 1996, Dia convinced Graeme Souness, then Southampton manager, that he was the cousin of FIFA World Player of the Year and Ballon d'Or winner George Weah, which led to him signing a one-month contract with Southampton days later. Dia played only one match in his short spell at the club. He came on as a substitute in a league game, but was then himself substituted. He was subsequently released, 14 days into his contract.\n\nAfter a playing career at the lower levels in France and Germany, and having already failed trials at Gillingham and Bournemouth, Dia joined non-league club Blyth Spartans, where he made only one substitute appearance – on 9 November 1996 in a Northern Premier League game against Boston United.\n\nDays later, Dia was signed by Southampton manager Graeme Souness, after Souness received a phone call purporting to be from Liberian international and then-FIFA World Player of the Year, George Weah. \"Weah\" told Souness that Dia was his cousin, had played for Paris Saint-Germain, and had played 13 times for his country. None of this was true, and the phone call to Souness was made by a fellow university student of Dia's, suggesting that he should give Dia a chance with Southampton. Souness was convinced, and Dia was signed on a one-month contract.\n\nDia played just one game for Southampton, wearing the number 33 shirt, against Leeds United on 23 November 1996; he had originally been scheduled to play in a reserve team friendly against Arsenal, but the match was cancelled due to a waterlogged pitch. In the match against Leeds, he came on as a substitute for the injured Matthew Le Tissier after 32 minutes, but was later substituted himself (for Ken Monkou) in the 85th minute; Leeds won the match 2–0. Le Tissier said: \"He ran around the pitch like Bambi on ice; it was very embarrassing to watch.\"\n\nDia was released by Southampton two weeks into his contract. He briefly played for non-league Gateshead, before leaving in February 1997. Dia only played eight games for the North East outfit, including scoring on his debut in a 5–0 win over Bath City.\n\nDia has a son, named Simon, who plays football for Saint-Quentin.\n\nHe went on to study business at Northumbria University in Newcastle, graduating in 2001.\n\nHe received a Master of Business Administration from San Francisco State University in 2003.\n\nDia has regularly featured in lists of bad players or bad transfers. Dia was named at Number 1 in a list of \"The 50 worst footballers\" in \"The Times\" newspaper and in a list of the \"Top 10 rubbish footballers\" published in \"The Sun\" newspaper, and at Number 4 in a list for the Top 50 worst strikers according to the \"Daily Mail\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1639", "title": "April 28", "text": "April 28\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1682548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1682548", "title": "Barry George", "text": "Barry George\n\nBarry Michael George (born 15 April 1960, also known as Barry Bulsara) is a British man who was wrongly convicted on 2 July 2001 of the murder of British television presenter Jill Dando.\n\nDando's profile and popularity ensured high public interest in the case. In the absence of other suspects, George attracted police attention because many elements in his background seemed to point to his guilt, although the only non-circumstantial evidence was a tiny speck of material that may or may not have been gunshot residue. He was convicted of murder, but his conviction was subsequently judged unsafe by the Court of Appeal and was quashed in 2007. After a retrial, he was acquitted on 1 August 2008, though his claims for compensation for wrongful imprisonment were dismissed.\n\nBarry George was born in Hammersmith Hospital, London. His parents had married in July 1954. He was the youngest of three children; they grew up in a high-rise flat in White City, London. His sister Michelle Diskin, who lives in Ireland, is five years older than he is; his sister Susan, three years older than he is, died of epilepsy aged 28. George also has epilepsy. His parents divorced in December 1973.\n\nAt 14, George attended the publicly funded Heathermount boarding school in Sunningdale, Berkshire, for children with emotional and behavioural difficulties. After leaving school without qualifications, his only employment was as a messenger at BBC Television Centre on a fixed term contract for six months; the job lasted only five months. His interest in the BBC endured until his arrest; he was a regular reader of the in-house magazine \"Ariel\", and had reportedly kept four copies of the memorial issue which featured Jill Dando's murder. George has exhibited an interest in celebrities.\n\nGeorge adopted several pseudonyms, starting at school, where he used the name Paul Gadd, the real name of singer Gary Glitter. In 1980, after George failed in his attempt to join the Metropolitan Police, he posed as a policeman, having obtained false warrant cards. For this he was arrested and prosecuted. In May 1980, he appeared in court clad in glam rock clothing and untruthfully stated his name to be Paul Gadd, and stated his occupation as 'unemployed musician' and former managing director of a company that handled three rock bands. At Kingston Magistrates' Court he was convicted and fined £25. In the early 1980s he appeared in a local newspaper claiming to be the winner of the British Karate Championship. He gave his name as 'Paul Gadd' and his occupation as 'a singer with the band Xanadu and a session musician with the Electric Light Orchestra'. He was exposed as a fraud by another newspaper. He then assumed the identity of the cousin of Electric Light Orchestra singer Jeff Lynne and created a fictional company called Xanadu Constructional and Mechanical Engineers. In 1980, George joined the Territorial Army, but was discharged the following year. He then adopted the persona of SAS member Tom Palmer, one of the soldiers who ended the 1980 Iranian Embassy Siege. George was charged with two counts of indecent assault in June 1981; he was acquitted of indecent assault against one woman, and convicted of indecent assault against another woman, for which he received a three-month sentence, suspended for two years. \n\nHe assumed the identity of 'Steve Majors' and claimed to be a stuntman; he convinced a stadium to stage a show in which he would jump over four double-decker buses on roller skates; he injured himself attempting this stunt. In March 1983 George was convicted at the Old Bailey under the pseudonym of 'Steve Majors' for the February 1982 attempted rape of a woman in Acton, for which he served 18 months of a 33-month sentence. On 10 January 1983, as was revealed after his arrest for the Dando murder, George had been found in the grounds of Kensington Palace, at that time the home of Prince Charles and Diana, Princess of Wales. He had been discovered hiding in the grounds wearing a balaclava and carrying a poem he had written to Prince Charles.\n\nOn 2 May 1989 at Fulham register office, George married a 35-year-old Japanese student, Itsuko Toide, in what Toide described as a marriage \"of convenience – but nonetheless violent and terrifying.\" After four months she reported to the police that he had assaulted her. On 29 October 1989, George was arrested and charged, but the case was dropped and did not go to court; the marriage ended in April 1990.\n\nIn April 1990, and again in January 1992, George was arrested and charged with indecent assault. Neither case went to court.\n\nBefore his trial for the Dando murder, George was diagnosed with Asperger syndrome. Prosecution psychologists studying George concluded that he had several different personality disorders: antisocial, histrionic, narcissistic and possibly paranoid, as well as somatization and factitious disorders and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. He was said to be epileptic and to have an IQ of 75; however, a prior assessment found George to be of average intelligence. George has also been likened to a \"lone obsessive, Walter Mitty-type figure\" for his desire to impersonate famous figures.\n\nJill Dando was shot dead outside her home on 26 April 1999. George (who at the time of the murder lived in a ground floor flat in Crookham Road, Fulham) was arrested for her murder on 25 May 2000, and charged on 29 May 2000. He was convicted by a majority of ten to one, and given a sentence of life imprisonment on 2 July 2001. This verdict was considered unsafe by some observers at the time.\n\nIn 2002, the Court of Appeal's judgment on the appeal, having addressed a number of grounds including eyewitness testimony, scientific evidence, and the role of the trial judge, concluded that the verdict of the jury was not unsafe and that appeal was dismissed.\n\nIn March 2006, George's lawyers sought an appeal on fresh evidence based on medical examinations suggesting he was not capable of committing the crime because of his mental disabilities. The defence brought in neuropsychiatrist Michael Kopelman to dispute the prosecution's claim that George showed signs of \"histrionics, paranoia and narcissism\" and had a personality disorder. Kopelman testified that \"[He] described to me that he can be aware of what's going on around him but he just can't respond\", and concluded that George was not calculating enough to have committed the crime. A second defence argument was that two new witnesses say they saw armed police at the scene when George was arrested, contrary to official reports about the circumstances of his arrest – the Metropolitan Police maintain there were no armed officers present during the arrest of George. There was scientific evidence linking Barry George to the murder in the form of a single microscopic particle of what was said to have been gunshot residue, together with evidence as to the character of a fibre found on his clothing. It was argued by the defence that the presence of armed officers and their involvement in his arrest might have been responsible for the gunshot residue.\n\nIn September 2006, following investigations by George's campaigners and a \"Panorama\" documentary about the conviction (conducted by miscarriage of justice victim Raphael Rowe), first broadcast in the UK on 5 September 2006 and which included an interview with the foreman of the trial jury, fresh evidence was submitted to the Criminal Cases Review Commission by the programme-makers and by Barry George's solicitor. The evidence concerned scientific analysis of the alleged gunshot residue, eyewitness evidence, and psychiatric reports.\n\nOn 20 June 2007, the Criminal Cases Review Commission announced that it would refer George's case to the Court of Appeal. On 22 August 2007, George was refused bail prior to the hearing, which began on 5 November 2007. One of the defence team's main grounds of appeal was that the single particle of gunshot residue in the coat pocket was not evidence which conclusively linked George to the crime scene; it could have appeared as a result of contamination of the coat when it was placed on a mannequin to be photographed as police evidence.\nOn 7 November 2007 the Court of Appeal reserved judgement in the case and on 15 November 2007 announced that the appeal was allowed and the conviction quashed.\n\nIn summary, the reasoning of the Court was that at the trial the prosecution had relied primarily on four categories of evidence:\n\nThe prosecution had called expert witnesses at the trial whose evidence suggested that it was likely that the particle of FDR came from a gun fired by Barry George rather than from some other source.\n\nThose witnesses and other witnesses from the Forensic Science Service told the Court of Appeal that this was not the right conclusion to draw from the discovery of the particle of FDR. It was instead no more likely that the particle had come from a gun fired by Barry George than that it had come from some other source. The Court of Appeal concluded that, if this evidence had been given to the jury at the trial, there was no certainty that the jury would have found George guilty. For this reason his conviction had to be quashed.\n\nA retrial was ordered and George was remanded in custody, making no application for bail.\n\nGeorge appeared before the Old Bailey on 14 December 2007 and again pleaded not guilty to the murder. His retrial began on 9 June 2008. Initially there was a large amount of coverage in the press, especially of the prosecution portrayal of the defendant as being highly obsessive, lacking in social skills and a danger to women. The prosecution case differed from that of the first trial in that there was practically no scientific evidence as the evidence relating to the FDR was ruled inadmissible by the trial judge (Mr Justice Griffith Williams). There was much evidence of George's bad character which was admitted in the re-trial (at the discretion of the trial judge) as a result of the enactment of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 since the original trial. There were delays due to legal arguments and to the illnesses of the defendant and one of the jurors. For the defence William Clegg QC reminded the jury that evidence from three women from HAFAD (Hammersmith and Fulham Action on Disability) placed the defendant's arrival at their offices at 11:50 or 12:00, which, according to Clegg's argument, would have made it impossible for him to have committed a murder at Dando's house at 11:30 and then gone home (in the wrong direction) to change. Two neighbours who almost certainly saw the murderer immediately after the shooting had seen him go off in this direction, and later failed to identify George at an identification parade. The trial ended with George's acquittal on 1 August 2008.\n\nOn multiple occasions George has won substantial damages from tabloid newspapers over various allegations published about him, at least twice pursuing these libel claims to the High Court. In December 2009, following mediation, he accepted an undisclosed amount from Rupert Murdoch's News Group Newspapers over articles published in \"The Sun\" and the \"News of the World\". In May 2010 Mirror Group Newspapers settled with George after claims, unrelated to the Dando murder, that he had developed an obsession with singer Cheryl Cole and newsreader Kay Burley.\n\nIn April 2010 it emerged that the Ministry of Justice had denied a claim of £1.4 million compensation made by George in respect of his wrongful imprisonment for Jill Dando's murder. The decision was made by Jack Straw, the Justice Secretary and in August 2010 the High Court ruled that George is entitled to a judicial review of the matter.\n\nOn 11 May 2011, the Supreme Court defined \"miscarriage of justice\" as evidence \"so undermined that no conviction could possibly be based upon it\". This decision cleared the way for George's solicitor, Nicholas Baird, to request that the Justice Secretary Ken Clarke \"consider afresh\" George's claim for compensation, applying the new test set out by the Court. The claim was heard in the High Court but in their summing up, judges Lord Justice Beatson and Mr Justice Irwin said: \"There was indeed a case upon which a reasonable jury properly directed could have convicted the claimant of murder\" and on the strength of this, denied George compensation for wrongful incarceration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42381005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42381005", "title": "Birthday of Che Kung", "text": "Birthday of Che Kung\n\nChe Kung festival or the Birthday of Che Kung is the day when people celebrate the birth of Che Kung. On this day, people, especially Hongkongers, would like to go to Che Kung Temple and worship Che Kung. Che Kung was a military commander in Southern Song dynasty. He protected the Emperor Bing of Song to escape Mongol invaders and considered as loyalty to the emperors.\n\nThe real birthday of Che Kung is 2 January in the Chinese lunar calendar. Nevertheless, people prefer the next day to celebrate his birthday.\nThey are:\n\nApart from the ceremony carried in the above hall, there are other practices to be done in the subordinate halls e.g. Tai Sui (太歲), Cai Shen(財神). For believers who are students, they often write down their name and wishes on a praying paper, and stick it onto a board called Jinbang timing board (金榜題名板) to pray for better academic achievements. To express their respect to Che Kung, believers may donate to the temple (添香油). Divination (求籤) is also practised in Che Kung Temple as a way of fortune-telling.\n\nOn the Che Kung festival in 2014, 65 thousand people went to Che Kung.\nBelievers think practising divination in Che Kung temple has made accurate predictions in the past. The first time was in 2003, Minister of Home Affairs Dr Patrick Ho Chi-ping on behalf of the city pulled out the worst possible bamboo stick in the temple on the Birthday of Che Kung. In the same year, Hong Kong was hit by the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak.\n\nTherefore, the person on behalf of Hong Kong practising divination on the Birthday of Che Kung has changed to Lau Wong Fat, the minister of Heung Yee Kuk since 2004.\n\nThe Birthday of Che Kung also relates to some political controversy. In the event of Hong Kong Express Rail Link controversy, about 20 post-80s generation anti-rail representatives joined the Hong Kong Government Lunar New year kau cim tradition at Che Kung temple, Sha Tin to draw three divination sticks as a way of demonstration to express their anger towards Hong Kong government.\n\nChe Kung is famous for his power to suppress chaos and his supreme ability to cure diseases. Precisely because of the abilities of Che Kung, he was soon revered as a \"God\" and has been considered as a \"God of protection\". Consequently, his followers and worshipers constructed a temple specifically for Che Kung in order to praise his power and good deeds.\n\nMoreover, there are four festival seasons of Che Kung’s birthday in Lunar Calendar (including 2/1, 27/3, 6/6 and 16/8). Since the first festival season falls on the Lunar New Year holiday, believers have dedicated the third day of the Lunar New Year as an annual event to worship Che Kung, and the celebration is known as \"The Birthday of Che Kung\" nowadays.\n\nDevotees choose to burn incense sticks. Burning incense sticks is a common phenomenon during the festival, because the process of burning incense sticks and the rising smoke symbolizes the appreciation of the devotees to the blessing and protection from Che Kung of the previous year. Devotees would also tell their living problems to Che Kung and hope that he will fulfill their wish. It is believed that their wishes will be carried up to heaven to Che Kung by the smoke of the incense.\n\nPinwheels can always be found next to the effigy of Che Kung, and they are regarded as ‘a wheel of fortune’. It is believed that the one who turns the pinwheel will be granted with prosperity and good luck for the entire year.\n\nIn Chinese culture, worshiping Che Kung is similar to worshiping Guandi, a god widely worshiped within Chinese communities as they believe he protects the entire nation. Both of them were generals protecting their country and demonstrated the loyalty to the motherland and to the people. Hong Kong local residents believe that Che Kung would protect them and their villages as he protected the Song dynasty. Being deeply influenced by Confucianism, Chinese people admire the bravery and uprightness of Che Kung.\n\nOn the 3rd of First Month in Lunar Month, traditionally, Chinese people think it is easy to have an argument with other people and this will give them misfortune. To prevent this curse from happening, Chinese people would like to worship folk god(s). That is the reason why so many people choose this day to go to worship Che Kung and pray for their fortune in the following year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35865563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35865563", "title": "Bjørn Kruse", "text": "Bjørn Kruse\n\nBjørn Howard Kruse (born 14 August 1946 in London, England) is a Norwegian painter and contemporary composer. He is also professor of composition at the Norwegian Academy of Music in Oslo.\n\nKruse is the son of Colonel Erling O. Kruse (born 1922, died 2016) and Eunice Cooklin (born 1925, died 2014), and spent his childhood in England and the USA. In 1974 he married Professor Gro Shetelig (born 1948) and they had three girls, singers and actors Benedikte (born 1979), Anine (born 1977) and Jannike Kruse (born 1975). Marriage dissolved 2008. Married Karette Stensæth 2012. Kruse has a broad background as a musician, (clarinet and saxophone), producer and music arranger.\n\nEver since his student days he has given lectures at Norwegian Academy of Music, in jazz theory, arranging as the author of \"Bruksmusikkarrangering\" (1978) but foremost in composition, and music and arts ethics.\n\nBjørn Kruse is a lecturer within his academic area, often based on his book \"Den Tenkende Kunstner\" (\"The Reflective Artist\"). \n\nAs a composer, he has created more than 150 titles in the genres of chamber music, choral music, larger orchestral works and operas.\n\nIn the dance project \"Memento Mori\" young and old are joined together in a theatrical tapestry of dance movement, text, voice, music and sound. Kruse and the choreographer Sølvi Edvardsen wanted in this piece to focus on all stages of life.\n\nA key work in Kruse´s compositional career is the opera \"The Green Knight\" with libretto by Paal-Helge Haugen. It premiered in Kristiansand, Norway, on 10 March 2004. Kruse´s latest major work is \"Chronotope\" for clarinet and orchestra, premiered on 21 January 2016 with soloist Fredrik Fors, the Oslo Philharmonic Orchestra and conductor Han-Na Chang. \n\nKruse formed the vocal group Bendik Singers with his brother Philip Kruse and the singers Anne-Karine Strøm and Ellen Nikolaysen.\n\nHis latest major exhibitions of paintings were both at the gallery Albin Upp in Oslo: \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54534848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54534848", "title": "Blutritt", "text": "Blutritt\n\nThe Blutritt (literal translation: Blood Ride) is an equestrian procession in honor of a relic containing the blood of Jesus Christ. There are several cities in Germany holding Blutritte, however, the dates are not unified.\n\nThe Blutritt in the Upper Swabia Weingarten is regarded as the biggest equestrian procession in Europe. It takes place on the Friday after Ascension Day and is also known as the ‘bloodfriday‘ („Blutfreitag“). In 1529 the Blutritt was first mentioned in writing, but even then it was labeled as an old custom. Traditionally, the Blutritt is a pilgrimage for men.\n\nThe Weingarten Abbey has been preserving a holy blood relic for over 950 years. This relic contains several drops of blood in a lump of earth which are supposedly the precious blood of Jesus Christ. This relic is kept in the church of the Weingarten Abbey.\n\nOn the day of the Blutritt, the Rider of the Holy Blood (German: Heilig-Blut-Reiter) carries the relic through Weingarten and the surrounding areas. Every year about 2,000 to 3,000 horsemen dressed in tailcoats and top hats (in 2016 there were 2,366 horsemen), grouped in over 100 groups of Blood Riders, escort the Rider of the Holy Blood on horseback. About 80 chapels accompany the horsemen. Every year the Blutritt in Weingarten is witnessed from the side of the road by over 30,000 pilgrims and spectators.\n\nAccording to legend, the Relic of the Holy Blood in Weingarten contains the blood of Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified in 30 or 31 AD on the hill Golgotha. A Roman legionnaire, later known as Longinus, pushed his lance deep into the side of the crucified to determine his death.\n\nThe blood of Jesus Christ dripped on the face of the legionnaire and enlightened him; this was, according to the legend, the origin of the miraculous healing force of the blood of Jesus. Longinus collected some drops of the blood, mixed them with the soil of Golgotha and stored them in a lead box. After being baptized by the Apostles, he left Jerusalem and traveled on a ship to the Italian Mantua where he preached Christianity and was consequently prosecuted. In hardship and distress, he hid the casket and died as a Martyr later on. One day the place of hiding was revealed to the blind Adilbero, and the news of which reached the Emperor. The Emperor, the Pope, and the Duke of Mantua let Adilbero show them the relic's hiding place and he got his eyesight back. However, a bloody conflict broke out about the relic. As a consequence, the object of dispute was apportioned: one piece for Pope Leo IX, one for the Duke of Mantua, and a third for Emperor Henry III.\n\nThis legend does not withstand a historic investigation; rather, the early Christian prosecution of Longinus came to an end in Cappadocia. The relic and his mortal remains were sent as a counter-present from Constantinople to the city of Mantua. When Mantua was under siege by the Lombards for one year in 580, the relic was hidden in a secret place and found again in 804. Thereupon, Pope Leo III (795-816) and Charlemagne (768-814) had it examined. The relic was disassembled.\n\nWhile Mantua was under siege by the Hungarians in 923, the parts were hidden again; the greater part, together with the relics of Longinus, in the garden of the Andreas Hospital, and the smaller part in the old church of St. Paul, close to the cathedral (found in 1479). On 12 March 1048 the greater part of the Relic of the Holy Blood and the remains of Longinus were found in Mantua. Pope Leo IX (1049–1054) called a synod of the church in 1053 in Mantua and wanted to take the relic of the precious blood to Rome. Due to the opposition of the people of Mantua, a second division of the relic occurred; one piece remained in Mantua, whereas the other was taken to Rome. In 1055 Emperor Henry III (1039–1056) traveled to Mantua and got another part of the Relic of the Holy Blood.\n\nWhen Emperor Henry III died in 1056, the relic was bequeathed to Baldwin V, Count of Flanders, (1035–1067) as a sign of reconciliation. He gave it as a present to his relation Judith of Flanders (1032–1094) who was married with her second husband Welf I, Duke of Bavaria. When the duke went into the crusade, Judith gave the Relic of the Blood to the abbot of the Weingarten Abbey Walicho (1088–1108), the “Lieblingsstiftung” (a foundation) and to the burial place of the House of Welf.\n\nThe handing over of the reliquary dates to 31 May 1090 and alternatively 12 March 1094. Apparently, it was the Friday after Ascension Day and is, thus, the origin of Blood Friday and the Ride of the Holy Blood. The handing over is depicted as a relief on the Hosanna-bell (1490) at the Basilica St. Martin.\n\nUntil the 17th century the Blutritt was connected with a border bypassing of the area of Weingarten. Therefore, the fathers marched with their sons who had just come of age and gave them a slapping in the face as a memory backing at prominent sites.\n\nAs a prelude to Blutritt, in the evening of the Ascension of Christ, thousands of pilgrims take part in a light procession from the Basilica of St.Martin to the Kreuzberg (since 1890).\n\nOn Blood Friday at 6 o'clock in the morning, the equestrian fair begins at the basilica. The actual Blutritt starts at about 7 o'clock and leads through the streets and adjacent fields of Weingarten for about ten kilometres. The relic, which is set in a cross studded with gemstones, is carried by the Rider of the Holy Blood, who bestows the Blessing of the Holy Blood (German: Segen des Heiligen Blutes) on houses, farms, and fields. The relic is secured by means of a chain with three rings, in case of the horse rearing up and throwing the rider off. Until the abbey was closed in 2010, a religious priest from the Weingarten Abbey was Rider of the Holy Blood. Since 2011, however, the parson of the basilica occupies this position. After about five hours, the reliquary is returned to the basilica.\n\nThe equestrian procession travels to four exterior altars. One of them lies outside of the district of Weingarten, in the municipality of Baienfurt:\n\n\nIn 2003, film director made a documentary about several participants of the Blutritt in Weingarten. It is called \"Die Blutritter\" (\"The Riders of the Holy Blood\") and premiered at the Locarno Festival in the summer of 2004.\n\nIn the upper swabian city of Bad Wurzach, the Blutritt is traditionally part of the Festival of the Holy Blood, which takes place on the second Friday of July. With around 1,500 riders and about 5,000 pilgrims, it is the second largest mounted procession in Middle Europe. The object of worship is a relic from the private possessions of Pope Innocent XII.\n\nTradition has it that in Rome, a pilgrim received a piece of cloth drenched in blood from Pope Innocent XII in the year of 1693. This relic then ended up in Bad Wurzach.\n\nThe blood-soaked cloth is carried around the city and its surroundings in a gilded reliquary. The horses are festively decorated, and the riders are wearing formal attire. The procession starts at 7 o'clock with the collection of the relic at the town church, and ends with a sermon on top of the Gottesberg (German: God's hill).\n\n\n\nIn some Lucerne municipalities, there are similar traditions taking place on Ascension Day (In Swiss German this holiday is called: \"Auffahrt\" or \"Uffahrt\", meaning \"ascension\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24536121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24536121", "title": "British rhythm and blues", "text": "British rhythm and blues\n\nBritish rhythm and blues (or R&B) was a musical movement that developed in the United Kingdom between the late 1950s and the early 1960s, and reached a peak in the mid-1960s. It overlapped with, but was distinct from, the broader British beat and more purist British blues scenes, attempting to emulate the music of African American blues and rock and roll pioneers, such as Muddy Waters and Howlin' Wolf, Chuck Berry and Bo Diddley. It often placed greater emphasis on guitars and was often played with greater energy.\n\nThe origins of the movement were in the British jazz, skiffle and folk movements of the 1950s. The 1958 visit of Muddy Waters influenced key figures Cyril Davies and Alexis Korner to turn to electric blues and form the band Blues Incorporated, which became something of a clearing house for British rhythm and blues musicians. A flourishing scene of clubs and groups emerged in the later 1950s and 1960s and bands began to break through into mainstream success. Major acts included the Rolling Stones, Manfred Mann, the Animals, the Yardbirds, Them, and the Spencer Davis Group, who dominated the UK and US charts from 1964, in the wake of the Merseybeat craze, becoming central to the mod subculture in the UK and a second wave of British Invasion acts in the US.\n\nSeveral of the bands and their members went on to become leading rock music performers of the late 1960s and early 1970s, helping to create psychedelic, progressive and hard rock and making rhythm and blues a key component of that music. In the mid to late-1970s, British R&B enjoyed a revival through the British soul and disco scenes, the pub rock circuit, new wave music and the mod revival, and has enjoyed a resurgence of interest since the late 1980s. In the 2000s, a British version of contemporary R&B began gaining popularity, and since the late 2000s the success of British female singers influenced by soul and R&B led to talk of another \"R&B British invasion\".\n\nCommentators often distinguish British rhythm and blues bands from beat bands (who were influenced by rock and roll and rockabilly) on the one hand, and, from \"purist\" British blues (which particularly emulated Chicago electric blues artists), on the other, although there was considerable crossover between the three sets of musicians. Merseybeat bands like the Beatles, or from the parallel beat scene in Manchester, were influenced by American forms of music that included rockabilly, girl groups and the early Motown sound, helping them to produce commercial orientated form of music that began to dominate the British charts from 1963. However, bands from the developing London club scene were mainly concerned to emulate black rhythm and blues performers, including the work of Chess Records' blues artists like Muddy Waters and Howlin' Wolf, but also wider rhythm and blues singer and rock and roll pioneers like Chuck Berry and Bo Diddley resulting in a \"rawer\" or \"grittier\" sound.\n\nBritish rhythm and blues differed in tone from that of African American artists, often with more emphasis on guitars and sometimes with greater energy. British rhythm and blues singers were criticised for their emulation of rhythm and blues vocal styles, with shouts, glottal stops, moans and cries. However, vocalists such as Van Morrison, Mick Jagger, Eric Burdon and Steve Winwood did not attempt to emulate a particular singer and were seen by critics as able to sing the blues convincingly and with some power. In cover versions of R&B songs, riffs were often simplified or used less frequently. The object of the music was usually to whip up energy, rather than to produce musical finesse. Many groups were based around guitars (rhythm, lead and bass) and drums and as a result arrangements tended to be guitar-oriented and at higher tempos than the originals. Amplification of guitars to the highest levels of underpowered amplifiers created the over-driven guitar sound that would become characteristic of rock music.\n\nNick Logan and Bob Woffinden noted that after the split of Blues Incorporated at the end of 1962, four main strands could be discerned in British Rhythm and Blues. Cyril Davies left to attempt to recreate the Chicago electric blues of Muddy Waters. The style would be the major influence on the later emergence of the blues boom, particularly through the work of John Mayall's Bluesbreakers. Alexis Korner continued with Blues Incorporated, bringing in jazz saxophonist Graham Bond and developing a more jazz orientated sound. This strand would be taken up by acts including the Graham Bond Organisation, Manfred Mann and Zoot Money. A unique form was pursued by Georgie Fame and the Blue Flames, who as the resident band at the Flamingo club on Wardour Street, unusual in having a predominantly black audience of American GIs and locals, also utilised jazz, but mixed R&B with elements of Caribbean music, including Ska and bluebeat. The Rolling Stones and others focused on rocking guitar music based on the work of Chuck Berry and Bo Diddley and would be followed by many small guitar and drum based groups, many of which would rapidly move into rock music.\n\nIn the early 1950s blues music was largely known in Britain through blues-influenced boogie-woogie, and the jump blues of Fats Waller and Louis Jordan. Imported recordings of American artists were brought over by African American servicemen stationed in Britain during and after World War II, merchant seamen visiting the ports of London, Liverpool, Newcastle on Tyne and Belfast, and in a trickle of (illegal) imports. From 1955 major British record labels HMV and EMI (the latter, particularly through their subsidiary Decca Records), began to distribute American jazz and increasingly blues records to the emerging market.\n\nOutside of recordings, occasional radio broadcasts were one of the few ways that British people could become familiar with the blues. A one-off broadcast by Josh White while he was visiting Britain in 1951 was so popular that he was asked to perform for a series of programmes for the BBC, eventually titled \"The Glory Road\" and broadcast in 1952. Later that year, folk song collector Alan Lomax, then resident in London, produced a series of three programmes under the title \"The Art of the Negro\", of last of which, \"Blues in the Mississippi Night\" featured folk blues recordings by artists including Muddy Waters, Robert Johnson and John Lee Hooker and was the first introduction of many later followers of the blues to the music and hardships of life for African Americans in the Southern US. The next year the \"Jazz Club\" programme, hosted by Max Jones, included a recital of \"Town and Country Blues\", which played music by a wide range of blues artists.\n\nThe British rhythm and blues scene developed in London out of the related jazz, skiffle and folk club scenes of the 1950s. The first of these scenes, that of jazz, had developed during the Second World War as a reaction to swing, consciously re-introducing older elements of American jazz, particularly that of New Orleans to produce trad jazz. This music incorporated elements of the blues and occasional blues-influenced singles reached the British Charts, including Humphrey Lyttelton's self-penned \"Bad Penny Blues\" (1956), the first jazz record to reach the British top 20.\n\nBritish trad jazz band-leader Chris Barber was one of the major figures in the development and popularisation of rhythm and blues in Britain the 1950s. His interest in the blues would help foster both the skiffle craze and the development of electric rhythm and blues, as members of his dance band would be fundamental to both movements. He founded the National Jazz League partly as a means of popularising the blues, served as co-director of the National Jazz Federation and helped establish the Marquee Club, which would become one of the major venues for British R&B bands. He also brought over American folk and blues performers who found they were much better known and paid in Europe than America, a series of tours that began with Josh White and Big Bill Broonzy in 1951, and would include Brownie McGhee, Sonny Terry, Memphis Slim, Muddy Waters and Lonnie Johnson.\n\nLonnie Johnson played at the Royal Festival Hall in 1952 on a bill opened by a group led by the young Lonnie Donegan. Donegan became the key figure in the development of the British skiffle \"craze\", beginning in Ken Colyer's Jazzmen by playing American folk and blues songs, particularly those derived from the recordings of Huddie Leadbetter, during intervals to the accompaniment of guitar, washboard and tea-chest bass in a lively style that emulated American jug bands. After Colyer left in 1954 to form a new outfit, the band became Chris Barber's Jazz Band, and members of the band played \"race blues\" songs in concert intervals and recorded as The Lonnie Donegan Skiffle Group. They released their high-tempo version of Lead Belly's \"Rock Island Line\" in 1956 and it became a major hit, spending eight months in the Top 20, peaking at number six (and number eight in the U.S.). It was the first début record to go gold in Britain, selling over a million copies worldwide. This stimulated the explosion of the British \"skiffle craze\" and it has been estimated that in the late 1950s there were 30–50,000 skiffle groups in Britain. Sales of guitars grew rapidly and groups performed on banjos, tea chest bass guitars and washboards in church halls, cafes and the flourishing coffee bars of Soho, London. In addition to members of the Beatles, a large number of British rhythm and blues musicians began their careers playing skiffle, including Van Morrison, Ronnie Wood, Mick Jagger and Roger Daltrey. The fashion created a demand for opportunities to play versions of American folk, blues and jazz music that would contribute to the growth of a club scene.\n\nUntil the mid-1950s in Britain the blues was seen as a form of folk music. When Broonzy toured England he played a folk blues set to fit British expectations of American blues, rather than his current electric Chicago blues. Skiffle clubs included the ‘Ballad and Blues’ club in a pub in Soho, co-founded by Ewan MacColl. In its early stages these clubs saw the playing of British and American folk music that included folk blues. As the skiffle craze subsided from the mid-1950s many of these clubs, following the lead of MacColl, began to shift towards the performance of English traditional folk material, partly as a reaction to the growth of American dominated pop and rock n’ roll music, often banning American music from performances and became more exclusively English folk clubs.\n\nThe more traditional American folk blues continued to provide 1960s British groups with material, particularly after the emergence of Bob Dylan, who also popularised folk blues songs. In 1964, for example, the song-catalogue of Lead Belly provided the Animals with \"The House of the Rising Sun\", Manfred Mann with \"John Hardy\" and the Four Pennies with \"Black Girl\". British acoustic blues continued to develop as part of the folk scene. In the early 1960s, folk guitar pioneers Bert Jansch, John Renbourn and particularly Davy Graham, played blues, folk and jazz, developing a distinctive guitar style known as folk baroque. It continued with figures like Ian A. Anderson and his Country Blues Band, and Al Jones. Most British acoustic blues players could achieve little commercial success and found it difficult to gain recognition for their \"imitations\" of the blues in the US, being overshadowed by the rhythm and blues and electric blues that had emerged in the later 1950s.\n\nBlues harpist Cyril Davies ran the London Skiffle Club at the Roundhouse public house in London’s Soho, which served as a focal point for British skiffle acts. Like guitarist Alexis Korner, he had worked for Chris Barber, playing in the R&B segment Barber introduced to his show and as part of the supporting band for visiting US artists. They began to play together as a duo and in 1957, deciding their central interest was blues, they closed the skiffle club and reopened a month later as The London Blues and Barrelhouse Club. It acted as a venue for visiting artists and their own performances. The visit of Muddy Waters in 1958 had a major impact on the duo and on the nature of British R&B in general. Initially British audiences were shocked by Waters's amplified electric blues, but he was soon playing to ecstatic crowds and receiving rave reviews. Where British blues had often emulated Delta blues and country blues in the emerging British folk revival, Davies and Korner, who had supported Waters on tour, now began to play high-powered electric blues, forming the band Blues Incorporated.\n\nBlues Incorporated had a fluid line up and became a clearing house for British rhythm and blues musicians in the later 1950s and early 1960s. These included future members of the Rolling Stones, the Yardbirds, Manfred Mann and the Kinks; beside Graham Bond and Long John Baldry. As well as acting as a mentor to these figures and others, including John Mayall and Jimmy Page, Korner was also a historian, writer and record collector pivotal in the growth of the movement, and often referred to as \"the father of British blues\". Blues Incorporated established a regular \"Rhythm and Blues Night\" at the Ealing Jazz Club and were given a residency at the Marquee Club, from which in 1962 they took the name of the first British blues album, \"R&B from the Marquee\" (Decca), but Korner and Davies had split over the issue of including horn sections in the Blues Incorporated sound before its release. Korner continued with various line-ups for Blues Incorporated, while Davies went on to form his R&B All Stars.\n\nEarly British rhythm and blues bands like Blues Incorporated found that folk clubs would not accept amplified blues performances. However, many London trad jazz clubs moved over to the style. In addition to the Roundhouse and the Marquee in central London, these included The Flamingo, the Crawdaddy Club, Richmond, where the Rolling Stones first began to gain attention, Klooks Kleek, The Ealing Club and the Eel Pie Island Hotel. Blues clubs were appearing in the capital at such a rate that in 1963 \"Melody Maker\" declared London \"The New Chicago!\". The scene soon began to spread out beyond London, particularly into East Anglia and the Midlands, with clubs in Norwich and Birmingham adopting the genre. Jazz bands also followed suit, with the Mike Cotton Jazz Band becoming the Mike Cotton Sound, Warwick's Tony and the Talons becoming the Original Roadrunners and Burton on Trent's Atlantix becoming Rhythm and Blues Incorporated.\n\nFrom 1962 demand for blues recordings in Britain and Europe led to new outlets for American recordings, Chicago recordings that were now available included Vee Jay Records through EMI's Stateside label and Chess Records through Pye International's R&B series. These records were enthusiastically sought and collected by a new generation of enthusiasts. The increasing appetite for rhythm and blues was reflected in the growing numbers of Afro-American artists visiting the country. From 1962 the American Folk Blues Festival, organised by German promoters Horst Lippmann and Fritz Rau, brought American blues stars including Waters, Wolf, Sonny Boy Williamson, and John Lee Hooker to the country. In 1964 the American Folk Blues and Gospel Caravan arrived in the UK for an 11-date tour, including in its line-up Sister Rosetta Tharpe, Blind Gary Davis, Sonny Terry, Muddy Waters and Otis Spann. The original dates sold out rapidly and six more had to be added. Later that year, the first of what was to become the annual National Jazz and Blues Festival was held at Reading in Berkshire.\n\n1964 was the year of most rapid expansion and the peak of the British R&B boom. It has been estimated that there were 300 rhythm and blues bands in England at the beginning of the year and over 2,000 by the end. In June 1964 John Lee Hooker's 1956 \"Dimples\" reached number 23 on the UK charts during a stay of 10 weeks. The song was chosen by the Spencer Davis Group as their May 1964 debut single and the Animals covered it on their first album. Howling Wolf's \"Smokestack Lightning\", released in the UK by Pye International Records that year, peaked at number 42 in the singles chart and was covered by the Yardbirds, Manfred Mann, the Animals and The Who. On 5 December 1964 the Rolling Stones version of Willie Dixon's \"Little Red Rooster\", based on Howlin' Wolf's 1961 version and recorded at Chess Records in Chicago, topped the UK chart for one week. Willie Dixon-penned songs would continue to be covered by British artists.\n\nThe most commercially successful act in the genre, were the Rolling Stones. Keith Richards and Mick Jagger, who had renewed their childhood association after discovering a shared interest in R&B records, were introduced to guitarist Brian Jones through Alexis Korner, after a Blues Incorporated gig at the Ealing Jazz Club. Blues Incorporated contained two other future members of the Rolling Stones: Ian Stewart and Charlie Watts. Formed in London in 1962, Jones took their name from a track on the cover of a Muddy Waters album and they abandoned blues purism before their line-up solidified to focus on a wide range of rhythm and blues artists. They debuted at The Marquee and soon gained a residency at the Crawdaddy Club, building up a reputation as a live act. They signed a recording contract with Decca and their first single was a cover of Chuck Berry's \"Come On\" released in June 1963. Despite its being virtually unpromoted by the band or the record company, their reputation among R&B fans helped it reached number 21 on the UK singles chart.\n\nThey produced their first album, \"The Rolling Stones\", in 1964, which largely consisted of rhythm and blues standards. Following in the wake of the Beatles' national and then international success, the Rolling Stones established themselves as the second most popular UK band and joined the British Invasion of the American record charts as leaders of a second wave of R&B oriented bands. In addition to Chicago blues numbers, the Rolling Stones also covered songs by Chuck Berry and Bobby and Shirley Womack, the latter's, \"It's All Over Now\", giving them their first UK number one in 1964. After the success of their cover of \"Little Red Rooster\" in 1964, the song-writing partnership between Jagger and Richards gradually began to dominate the band's output, giving them their breakthrough international hit \"(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction (1965), a song which borrowed phrases and rhythms from R&B standards, and would be covered by both Otis Redding and Aretha Franklin. The importance of the writing partnership contributed to the marginalisation of Jones and marked a shift away from R&B material. They would investigate a series of new musical styles in their long career, but blues songs and influences continued to surface in the Rolling Stones' music.\n\nOther London-based bands that pursued a similar course to the Rolling Stones included the Yardbirds, the Kinks, the Downliners Sect, the Pretty Things and Pink Floyd. The Yardbirds began as the Metropolis Blues Quartet. By 1963 they had acquired Eric Clapton as a lead guitarist and were acting as the backing band for Sonny Boy Williamson on his British tour. They earned a formidable reputation as a live act, developing frantic improvised guitar–harmonica \"rave-ups\", but they enjoyed only modest success with singles based on R&B covers. In 1965 they cut the more pop-oriented single \"For Your Love\", which made the top 10 in the UK and US, but the move away from the blues prompted Clapton to quit the band for a stint with John Mayall's Bluesbreakers and then to form Cream. His replacement Jeff Beck (and eventually his replacement Jimmy Page), saw the band enjoy a series of transatlantic hits and to go on to become pioneers of psychedelic rock.\n\nAfter an early lack of success with R&B standards, the Kinks enjoyed their breakthrough with the single \"You Really Got Me\" (1964). Influenced by the Kingsmen's version of \"Louie, Louie\", it reached number one in the UK and the top 10 in the US. The follow-up \"All Day and All of the Night\" (1964) reached number two in the US, while the band also released two full-length albums and several EPs in this period.\n\nThe Downliners Sect formed in 1963, and developed a strong reputation in London clubs, but had less commercial success than many of their contemporaries. The Pretty Things had UK hits with \"Don't Bring Me Down\" (1964) and the self penned \"Honey I Need\" (1965), which both reached the top twenty, but they failed to break into the American market and would be chiefly remembered for their later psychedelic work. Pink Floyd began as a rhythm and blues outfit, the Tea Set, adopting a new name based on those of blues musicians Floyd Council and Pink Anderson and playing London blues clubs from 1966. By the time they began to record they had already moved on to psychedelic compositions and jams that would make them a central feature of the emerging London Underground scene.\n\nBands to emerge from other major British cities included the Animals from Newcastle, Them from Belfast and the Spencer Davis Group and the Moody Blues from Birmingham. None of these bands played exclusively rhythm and blues, often relying on sources that included Brill Building and girl group songs for their hit singles, but it remained at the core of their early albums. The Animals' sound was characterised by the keyboards of Alan Price and the powerful vocals of Eric Burdon. They moved to London in 1964 and released a series of successful singles, beginning with transatlantic hit \"House of the Rising Sun\", mixing more commercial folk and soul, while their albums were dominated by blues standards. Them, with their vocalist and multi-instrumentalist Van Morrison, had a series of hits with \"Baby, Please Don't Go\" (1964), which reached number 10 in the UK, and \"Here Comes the Night\" (1965), which charted at number 2 in the UK and made the top 40 in the U.S., but perhaps their most enduring legacy was the B-side \"Gloria\", which became a garage rock standard. The Spencer Davis Group had their first UK number one with the Jackie Edwards penned \"Keep on Running\" (1965), but became largely a vehicle for the young keyboard player and vocalist Steve Winwood, who at only 18 co-wrote \"Gimme Some Lovin'\" (1967) and \"I'm a Man\" (1967), both of which reached the \"Billboard\" 100 top 10 and became R&B standards. The Moody Blues had only one major R&B hit with a cover of \"Go Now\" (1964), which reached number one in the UK and number ten in the US. Subsequent singles failed to penetrate the top 20 and hardly broke the top 100 in the US, marking a steep decline in the band's fortunes. However, they would return after line-up changes to be one of the most important psychedelic rock bands and a major influence on progressive rock.\n\nThe British Mod subculture, which was at its height in 1965 and 1966, was musically centred on rhythm and blues and later soul music, but the artists that performed the original music were not available in small London clubs around which the scene was based. British R&B bands like the Stones, Yardbirds and Kinks had a following among mods but a large number of specifically mod bands also emerged to fill this gap. These included the Small Faces, the Creation, the Action, the Smoke, John's Children and most successfully the Who. The Who's early promotional material tagged them as producing \"maximum rhythm and blues\", but by about 1966 they moved from attempting to emulate American R&B to producing songs that reflected the Mod lifestyle. Many of these bands were able to enjoy cult and then national success in the UK, but found it difficult to break into the American market. Only the Who managed, after some difficulty, to produce a significant US following, particularly after their appearances at the Monterey Pop Festival (1967) and Woodstock (1969).\n\nAmong more jazz-influenced acts the Organisation were led by Graham Bond's organ and saxophone playing and gruff vocals. Their rhythm section of Jack Bruce and Ginger Baker would go on to form Cream with Eric Clapton in 1967. Manfred Mann had a much smoother sound and one of the most highly rated vocalists in the scene in Paul Jones. They enjoyed their first success with covers of girl group songs \"Do Wah Diddy Diddy\" (1964) and \"Sha La La\" (1964), the first of which reached number one in both the UK and the US, but largely stuck to rhythm and blues standards on their albums. Zoot Money, whose Big Roll Band mixed R&B, soul, rock and roll and jazz, and was one of the most popular live acts of the era, made little impact in terms of record sales, but is noted for the later successes of its members, including guitarist Andy Summers, pianist Dave Greenslade, drummer Jon Hiseman, bassist Tony Reeves and saxophonist Clive Burrows. Georgie Fame and the Blue Flames mixed jazz, ska and bluebeat into his music and had three number one singles in the UK, beginning with \"Yeh Yeh\" (1965).\n\nA number of visiting black stars became part of the British R&B scene. These included Geno Washington, an American singer stationed in England with the Air Force. He was invited to join what became Geno Washington & the Ram Jam Band by guitarist Pete Gage in 1965 and enjoyed top 40 hit singles and two top 10 albums before the band split up in 1969. Another American GI, Herbie Goins, sang with Blues Incorporated before leading his own band, the Nightimers. Jimmy James, born in Jamaica, moved to London after two local number one hits with the Vagabonds in 1960 and built a strong reputation as a live act, releasing a live album and their debut \"The New Religion\" in 1966 and achieving moderate success with singles before the original Vagabonds broke up in 1970. Champion Jack Dupree was a New Orleans blues and boogie woogie pianist, who toured Europe and settled there from 1960, living in Switzerland and Denmark, then in Halifax, England in the 1970s and 1980s, before finally settling in Germany.\n\nThe most significant and successful visiting artist was Jimi Hendrix who in early 1966, after years on the chitlin circuit as sideman for major R&B acts as well as playing in bands in New York, was invited to England to record as a solo artist by former Animals bassist Chas Chandler. With Mitch Mitchell on drums and Noel Redding on bass, the band formed around him as The Jimi Hendrix Experience became major stars in the UK, with three top ten hits in early 1967. it was followed later that year by the psychedelic album \"Are You Experienced?\", which became a major hit in the US after Hendrix's triumphant return at the Monterey Pop Festival and made him one of the major figures of late 60s rock.\n\nA number of solo artists who emerged from the British R&B scene would go on to highly successful careers in the later 1960s and 1970s. These included Long John Baldry, Rod Stewart and Elton John. After the dissolution of Blues Incorporated in 1962 Long John Baldry joined the Cyril Davies R&B All Stars, and after Davies' death in early 1964 took over leadership of the group, renaming it Long John Baldry and His Hoochie Coochie Men. The band featured Rod Stewart as a second vocalist, with whom Baldry formed short lived proto-supergroup Steampacket in 1965. Baldry moved on to front Bluesology, which had originally been formed as an R&B band in 1962 by teenage keyboardist Reggie Dwight, later better known as Elton John. Baldry enjoyed his greatest success with pop ballads, beginning with \"Let the Heartaches Begin\" (1967), which reached number one in Britain, but, despite supporting the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, he remained virtually unknown outside of the UK. After Steampacket dissolved in 1966, Rod Stewart joined blues-rock combo Shotgun Express and then The Jeff Beck Group, and when that broke up in 1969 he moved on to The Small Faces, which became The Faces, and also began to pursue his solo career, mixing R&B with rock and folk, to become one of the most successful British solo artists of the 1970s. Elton John, taking his first name from Bluesology saxophonist Elton Dean and his last from John Baldry, formed a partnership with lyricist Bernie Taupin in 1968 and after writing hits for major pop artists embarked on a solo career that would be the most commercially successful of the early 1970s and one of the most sustained in pop music.\n\nThe wider rhythm and blues boom overlapped, both chronologically and in terms of personnel, with the later and more narrowly focused British blues boom. The blues boom began to come to prominence in the mid-1960s as the rhythm and blues movement began to peter out leaving a nucleus of instrumentalists with a wide knowledge of blues forms and techniques. Central to the blues boom were John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers, who began to gain national and international attention after the release of \"Blues Breakers with Eric Clapton\" (\"Beano\") album (1966), considered one of the seminal British blues recordings. Peter Green started a \"second great epoch of British blues\", as he replaced Clapton in the Bluesbreakers after Clapton's departure to form Cream.\n\nIn 1967, after one record with the Bluesbreakers, Green, with the Bluesbreakers' rhythm section Mick Fleetwood and John McVie, formed Peter Green's Fleetwood Mac. Mike Vernon, who had produced the \"Beano\" album set up the Blue Horizon record label and signed Fleetwood Mac and other emerging blues acts. Other major acts included Free, Ten Years After, and Duster Bennett. Fleetwood Mac's eponymous début album reached the UK top 5 in early 1968 and as the instrumental \"Albatross\" reached number one in the single charts in early 1969. Chicken Shack, formed at the peak of the boom in 1965 by Stan Webb, were unusual in having a female vocalist and keyboard player in Christine Perfect. They had a British hit with Etta James' R&B classic \"I'd Rather Go Blind\" in 1969, before Perfect left to join her husband John McVie in Fleetwood Mac, but remained largely focused on blues standards. The band then suffered a series of line-up changes and, although managing a comeback on the club circuit, they never achieved another mainstream breakthrough and split up in 1973. The last years of the 1960s were, as Scott Schinder and Andy Schwartz put it, \"the commercial apex of the British blues boom\".\n\nBy 1967 most of the surviving major British R&B acts had moved away from covers and R&B-inspired music to psychedelic rock, and from there they would shift into new subgenres. Some, like Jethro Tull followed bands like the Moody Blues away from 12-bar structures and harmonicas into complex, classical-influenced progressive rock. Members of the next generation of blues-based bands, including Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath, played a loud form of blues-influenced rock, would lead to the development of hard rock and ultimately heavy metal. Some, like Mayall, continued to play a \"pure\" form of the blues, but largely outside of mainstream notice. The structure of clubs, venues and festivals that had grown up in the late 1950s and early 1960s in Britain virtually disappeared in the 1970s. By 1970 British rhythm and blues had virtually ceased to exist as an active genre. Rhythm and blues bands began to find it very difficult to achieve serious album sales, even in the UK. Vinegar Joe, formed in 1971 around the vocals of Elkie Brooks and Robert Palmer and the instrumental talents of Pete Gage and Steve York, despite popular stage performances, broke up after only three albums with disappointing sales two years later.\n\nBritish R&B continued to be played in the Northern Soul club scene, where early soul records, particularly those of Motown, were highly prized. There were also bands on the London pub rock circuit. Occasional R&B-based pub rock acts like Dr Feelgood managed to build a following through tireless touring. They topped the British charts with live album \"Stupidity\" (1976), but failed to make a significant impact in the US.\n\nWith the rise of disco music, British soul music became popular in the mid-late 1970s. A handful of pub rock acts managed to achieve mainstream success after the advent of punk rock, often being re-categorised as new wave music, including Graham Parker and the Rumour, Nick Lowe, Squeeze and Elvis Costello. London-based R&B pub rock bands received a major boost when The Jam kicked off the mod revival in 1977 with their debut album \"In the City\", which mixed R&B standards with originals modelled on the Who's early singles. They confirmed their status as the leading mod revival band with their third album \"All Mod Cons\" (1978), on which Paul Weller's song-writing drew heavily on the British-focused narratives of the Kinks. Pub rock bands like Red Beans and Rice, the Little Roosters, the Inmates, Nine Below Zero and Eddie and the Hot Rods, became major acts in the growing mod revival scene in London. Other bands grew up to feed the desire for mod music, often combining the music of '60s mod groups with elements of punk music, including the Lambrettas, the Merton Parkas, Squire, and Purple Hearts. These acts managed to develop cult followings and some had pop hits, before the revival petered out in the early '80s. In 1979, Dave Kelly, who had been a member of the John Dummer Blues Band formed The Blues Band with ex-Manfred Mann vocalist Paul Jones and Gary Fletcher, who continued to tour and record rhythm and blues into the new millennium.\n\nPaul Weller broke up The Jam in 1982 and formed The Style Council, who abandoned most of the elements of punk to adopt music much more based in R&B and early soul. Some major figures of the movement, including Robert Palmer and Steve Winwood, re-emerged as solo artists in the early 1980s, being as defined as blue-eyed soul singers.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, musicians, particularly African Americans, mixed pop with disco like beats and high tech electronic production to produce the new genre of contemporary R&B, adding elements of other genres, including funk, hip hop, and soul music.\n\nRoots music, including rhythm and blues, began to enjoy another resurgence of interest towards the end of the 1980s and in the 1990s. Annual blues festivals were established, including The Great British Rhythm and Blues Festival, held at Colne in Lancashire from 1989, which hosts both US and British R&B acts. In 1994, Jools Holland, former keyboard player with Squeeze and presenter of the TV show \"Later... with Jools Holland\", reshaped his backing band as Jools Holland's Rhythm and Blues Orchestra and, as well as supporting him on the show, they embarked on a series of tours. After leaving the Rolling Stones in 1997, Bill Wyman formed the Rhythm Kings, which featured guitarists Peter Frampton and Albert Lee as well former Procol Harum keyboardist Gary Brooker, touring and producing a series of R&B based albums. By 2000, the fanzine \"Blues Matters!\" had managed to become a regular glossy magazine.\n\nIn the 2000s, British artists began to enjoy success with the genre, including Craig David and Estelle. Much of the music produced by modern British R&B artists tend to incorporate electropop sounds, as exemplified by artists such as Jay Sean and Taio Cruz. In the 2000s, there was success in the U.S. for British female artists who mixed soul music with elements of rhythm and blues, including Amy Winehouse, Duffy, Leona Lewis and Adele, leading to talk of another \"R&B British Invasion\" or \"Third British Invasion\".\n\nBecause of the very different circumstances from which they came, and in which they played, the rhythm and blues produced by British artists was very different in tone from that created by African Americans, often with more emphasis on guitars and sometimes with greater energy. They have been criticised for exploiting the massive catalogue of African American music, but it has also been noted that they both popularised that music, bringing it to British, world and in some cases American audiences, and helping to build the reputation of existing and past rhythm and blues artists. In order to sustain their careers most British R&B artists soon moved on from recording and performing American standards to writing and recording their own music. Many from the 60s helped pioneer psychedelic, and eventually progressive, hard rock and heavy metal, mixing in elements of world, folk and classical music. Others from the 1970s and 1980s, helped shape new wave and post-punk music and had a major impact on later genres, including Britpop. As a result, British rhythm and blues has been a major component of the sound of rock music.\n\nThis table lists recordings that made the UK Singles Chart in the early 1960s, by British groups, of material previously recorded by American rhythm and blues musicians:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3100423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3100423", "title": "Brussels International Fantastic Film Festival", "text": "Brussels International Fantastic Film Festival\n\nThe Brussels International Fantastic Film Festival (BIFFF), previously named Brussels International Festival of Fantastic Film (, ) was created in 1983 as a venue for horror, thriller and science fiction films. It takes place in Brussels, every year in March. Initially organized by Annie Bozzo, Gigi Etienne, Freddy Bozzo, Georges Delmote and Guy Delmote, it now has prizes in both feature length and short films, and also hosts an international body-painting competition.\n\nThe festival is accredited by the FIAPF as a competitive specialised film festival. Winners of the grand prize, the Golden Raven statuette, include \"Army of Darkness\", \"Radioactive Dreams\", and \"Dog Soldiers\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58141865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58141865", "title": "Busan Sunrise Festival", "text": "Busan Sunrise Festival\n\nThe Busan Sunrise Festival () is an annual event held in Busan, South Korea.\n\nThe Busan Sunrise Festival was conceived in 1999 to promote Busan as a \"metropolis of cosmopolitan culture and tourism\". In order to spread awareness of the inaugural event, the Busan Metropolitan City Government and Busan Cultural Festival Promotion Association invited public participation throughout April to select an official promotional poster.\n\nA bell toll ritual occurs in Yongdusan Park on December 31 followed by the observance of the sunrise on Haeundae Beach on January 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "35752743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35752743", "title": "Chariots of Fire (play)", "text": "Chariots of Fire (play)\n\nChariots of Fire is a 2012 stage adaptation of the 1981 Oscar-winning film of the same name. Production of the Olympic-themed play, which opened at London's Hampstead Theatre 9 May 2012 and transferred to the West End on 23 June 2012, was partially inspired by the 2012 London Summer Olympics.\n\nThe \"Chariots of Fire\" adaptation for the stage was written by playwright Mike Bartlett, and Edward Hall directed the play. It starred Jack Lowden as Scottish missionary Eric Liddell, and James McArdle as Jewish Cambridge student Harold Abrahams. For the production, stage designer Miriam Buether transformed the entire theatre into an Olympic stadium, so that audiences had the experience of being in the Olympic stands.\n\nThe play includes the film's iconic Vangelis score, and Vangelis also created several new pieces of music for the production. As in the film, Gilbert and Sullivan songs are also used, and additional music was provided by Tony Award-winning composer Jason Carr.\n\nThe stage version for the London Olympic year was the idea of the film's director, Hugh Hudson, who co-produced the play; Hudson stated, \"Issues of faith, of refusal to compromise, standing up for one's beliefs, achieving something for the sake of it, with passion, and not just for fame or financial gain, are even more vital today.\"\n\n\"Chariots of Fire\" opened in previews 9 May at London's Hampstead Theatre, and officially opened there on 22 May. It transferred to the Gielgud Theatre in the West End on 23 June, where it ran until 5 January 2013.\n\n\n\"Chariots of Fire\" is the inspirational true story of two great British athletes, outsiders who overcome prejudice and personal strife to compete in the 1924 Paris Olympics. Eric Liddell is a devout Scottish Christian who runs for the glory of God. Harold Abrahams is the son of an immigrant Lithuanian Jew who runs to overcome prejudice. The two young track athletes live for the purity and honour of running, and prevail in the face of enormous odds. The story begins in 1919, and climaxes in the heartbreaks and triumphs of the 1924 Paris Olympics.\n\nThe stage revival of the film was the inspiration of Hugh Hudson, who directed the 1981 film. He and fellow co-producer Barbara Broccoli, a film-industry magnate best known for the James Bond franchise, set about looking for the perfect director for the piece. Broccoli's involvement with \"Chariots of Fire\" extended back to 1980, when she introduced her friend Dodi Fayed to the screenplay, and he ended up co-financing the film and becoming its executive producer.\n\nHudson and Broccoli chose Edward Hall to helm the stage adaptation, based upon his clear and incisive view of all the challenges involved in adapting the athletics-heavy story to the stage. Hall recruited the award-winning playwright Mike Bartlett, based on his many successes including \"Earthquakes in London\", to write the script for the play.\n\nSet designer Miriam Buether transformed Hampstead Theatre into its very own stadium, giving the audience an immersive experience that evoked the 1924 Paris Olympics, including seating in the round around an Olympic track, and a double revolving stage. Buether also later transformed the Gielgud Theatre into an immersive stadium with a track running through the audience. And choreographer Scott Ambler reinvented and choreographed the various running scenes for maximum theatrical effect.\n\nScottish up-and-comer Jack Lowden was cast as Eric Liddell, on the strength of his glowingly reviewed, charismatic, and athletic performance as the main character Cammy in an international tour of the Olivier Award-winning play \"Black Watch\". And RADA-trained James McArdle, with several classics under his belt, had most recently portrayed Robin Hood at the RSC, and was chosen to play Harold Abrahams.\n\nRehearsals for the actors portraying athletes incorporated grueling training, including lengthy runs, with a British Military Fitness instructor. And when stars Jack Lowden and James McArdle discovered they live on the same London street, they began running to rehearsals in addition to the required group training.\n\nIn the 1981 film, screenwriter Colin Welland anchored the period story to the present by opening with Harold Abrahams' 1978 memorial service. In Mike Bartlett's 2012 play, the story is anchored to the present by beginning the piece with 15 modern athletes doing a warm-up, \"which turns into a training session, which suddenly evolves into Lord Lindsay and Harold Abrahams.\"\n\nBartlett also used theatrical techniques to allow the play to \"tell two stories at the same time, and show links between them and metaphors and parallels\", using the Eric Liddell story to talk about Harold Abrahams and using Harold to talk about Eric. The play contains more meetings between Liddell and Abrahams than there were in the film, and also more humour. In contrast to the film, the play has Abrahams struggling with, in addition to anti-Semitism, thoughts of his estranged and never-present father.\n\nDirector Edward Hall stated that, in addition, \"In theatre you can take components of the story and analyse them narratively in different ways. So you can stretch or freeze a moment in a race... it gives you more freedom.\" Astute staging, he noted, can convey all of the various emotions that take place while running, and then finishing, a race.\n\nAnd in contrast to the film, the play also introduces a female admirer for Eric Liddell: his real-life fiancée Florence Mackenzie, the daughter of Canadian missionaries to China. Also in the play, the very fit ensemble cast and extras are not only utilized for running and racing, but also are frequently employed in singing as well.\n\n\"Chariots of Fire\" opened officially on 22 May 2012, and received positive reviews from major critics in major UK publications. By 29 May, the Hampstead Theatre run had sold out.\n\nLibby Purves of \"The Times\" wrote that \"even this grumpy Olymposceptic was brought to actual tears, moved to empathy and understanding by the fabulous theatricality of it.\" She called Edward Hall's staging \"thrilling\" and the play \"irresistible\", adding that \"above all, it's the sincerity: a full-blooded willingness to take the hearty morality, amateur spirit and patriotism at its own valuation without modish irony.\" Praising the main cast, Purves singled out Jack Lowden as \"outstanding\", and Nicholas Woodeson as \"superb\".\n\nQuentin Letts in the \"Daily Mail\" deemed the play a \"stirring production\" and \"thrilling\", and gave it five stars, adding of the two leads that, \"Both actors are splendid.\" Christopher Hart of the \"Sunday Times\" also gave the play five stars, declaring it \"a bravura version of the 1981 movie\". \"It's Edward Hall's staging that's the real winner\" he wrote, describing the running sequences as \"pure exhilaration\". He summed up the play as \"a joyful antidote to the modern Olympics\", \"a real summer high\", and \"surely one of the great treats of the summer\".\n\nIan Shuttleworth in the \"Financial Times\" praised Edward Hall's \"considerable adroitness\" in directing what he deemed \"a fine Olympic-season project\". He also admired Bartlett's script in that \"[h]e utilises the stage's greater ability to open up to the protagonists’ inner voices, showing Abrahams’ preoccupation with his never-present father and in particular Liddell's devout brand of muscular Christianity ...\" Michael Billington of \"The Guardian\" praised \"Edward Hall's bravura production\" and Miriam Buether's \"brilliant\" set. He also noted approvingly that Hall's \"kaleidoscopic pageant\" of a play is bound together by music, including Gilbert and Sullivan numbers, Scottish bagpipes, a medley of British folk tunes, and the iconic Vangelis theme.\n\nAndrzej Lukowski of \"Time Out\" wrote, \"This lavish stage adaptation ... is about as close to a West End musical as it's possible to get without in fact being one\", citing the frequent Gilbert and Sullivan hits, the impressive stadium set, the 21-strong ensemble cast, and the stylized running choreography. Lukowski praised Bartlett for his \"funny, pithy and creative\" script, and summarized the production by asserting it is \"a spectacle\".\n\n\"The Independent\" noted that, in a play about competition, \"what eventually emerges as the really engaging battle of wills is that of Abrahams and Liddell versus the British Establishment – ironic, as they each strive to shine for king and country.\" And \"The Observer\" opined that \"[Hall's] fantastically enjoyable production of \"Chariots of Fire\" is a triumph of will that is in keeping with the spirit of the story it tells... This is an unmissable theatrical offering in the year of the London Olympics.\"\n\nMany reviewers commented on the intense, often breathless, physicality of the production. The high-speed running around the perimeter of the auditorium and through the audience reminded some of \"Starlight Express\", and Mark Lawson on BBC Radio 4's \"Front Row\" evoked the recent hit play \"War Horse\" as a comparison to the \"Chariots\" play, adding that \"It's such an unusual theatre show!\"\n\nHenry Hitchings in \"The Evening Standard\" deemed the play a \"stirring crowd-pleaser\" and \"a potently realised spectacle\", concluding that while \"undeniably bombastic fare\", \"energy and conviction make \"Chariots of Fire\" a satisfying experience.\" In \"The Stage\", Mark Shenton echoed other reviews regarding the high-energy, intriguingly staged production. He emphasized in addition that \"the meat of the drama\" is the \"gripping human confrontation being played out at its centre, in which two young men from very different backgrounds ... are drawn into competition with each other but also a bigger one with themselves and what truly matters to each.\" Shenton concluded that the play \"succeeds on its own terms to provide what is sure to be a huge popular theatrical success.\"\n\n\nThe play's incidental music was released on CD in 2012, titled \"Chariots of Fire – The Play: Music from the Stage Show\". Except for the hymn \"Jerusalem\", the music was composed, arranged and produced by Vangelis. The CD length is 58:22 minutes, and includes three tracks previously released on the movie soundtrack, two of which are slightly updated. All other 11 Vangelis tracks are newly composed specifically for the stage play.\n\n"}
{"id": "13034509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13034509", "title": "Courir de Mardi Gras", "text": "Courir de Mardi Gras\n\nThe Courir de Mardi Gras ( ) is a traditional Mardi Gras event held in many Cajun communities of south Louisiana on the Tuesday before Ash Wednesday. Courir de Mardi Gras is Cajun French for \"Fat Tuesday Run\". The rural Mardi Gras celebration is based on early begging rituals, similar to those still celebrated by mummers, wassailers and celebrants of Halloween. As Mardi Gras is the celebration of the final day before Lent, celebrants drink and eat heavily, and also dress in specialized costumes, ostensibly to protect their identities. Popular practices include wearing masks, capuchons, and costumes, overturning social conventions, dancing, drinking alcohol, begging, feasting, whipping. Because of violent activities associated with the Ku Klux Klan, Louisiana has a state law prohibiting the wearing of hoods and masks in public. Mardi Gras is one of the few occasions when exceptions are allowed, as are Halloween celebrations and religious observances. Two HBO series (the crime drama \"True Detective\" and the post Hurricane Katrina themed \"Treme\") make reference to the tradition.\n\nBarry Jean Ancelet, Cajun historian and head of the University of Louisiana at Lafayette Folklore Department, has explained the origin of the \"Courir\" as being in rural medieval France:\n\nThese origins are in the customs of Catholic medieval Europe, specifically the \"fête de la quémande\" (\"feast of begging\") of medieval France. During the \"fête\", which was a time when begging from house to house was a socially acceptable behavior, disguised revelers would go through the countryside visiting households and performing for offerings. This is similar to other contemporary traditional European customs such as mumming and wassailing which usually occur around Christmas, New Year's, and Epiphany. These traditions originated in a time when most of the land and money was held by the upper classes. The poor, at the end of long winters and short on food, would gather in groups and make their way from castle to manor house to beg for food from the wealthy, dancing and singing in return for the generosity of the nobles. French medieval carnival celebrations also featured contests and races, which may be the origins of the chicken chase associated with the \"courir\". A few of the traditional runs have whipping and penitinece as part of their traditions. These traditions are traced to the Medieval Flagellants, who would hold processions through the streets whipping themselves and sometimes onlookers to beat the sin out of them. Other of the traditions associated with the \"courir\" are derived from the folk traditions of Pre-Christian Celtic Europe and are associated with fertility and renewal. Examples include the use of the burlap whip and the tune on which the \"Chanson de Mardi Gras\" are based, both of which are traced back to Brittany, a Celtic enclave on the Northwestern French coast near where the original settlers of Acadia were from. These traditions were carried to North America by European immigrants during the 17th and 18th centuries. In the mid to late 18th century when the Acadian settlers of the Canadian Maritimes were forcibly deported by the English, many made their way to South Louisiana, settling what would become known as the Acadiana region. The Cajuns, as they would become known to the rest of the world, have held on to many of their traditional customs, including their language (Acadian French became Cajun French), music, dances and religious festivals such as the \"courir\". This determination to hold on to their religious customs and faith has been a major factor in creating the atmosphere that has allowed for the celebration of life, or \"la joie de vivre,\" that is so characteristic of Cajun life and culture in South Louisiana.\n\nAlthough the tradition never died out, during the 1930s and 1940s it had begun to fade away, especially during the World War II era as many of the young men who participated were away serving in the armed forces. During the late 1940s and early 1950s the tradition began to be revived and in the 1960s got a major boost with the \"Cajun renaissance\", a grass roots effort to promote the unique local food, culture, music and language of the area. In 1993, documentary filmmaker Pat Mire chronicled the tradition with his film \"Dance for a Chicken: The Cajun Mardi Gras\". The imagery of the event is represented in work by local artists such as Chuck Broussard, Francis Pavy, and Herb Roe and in the name and packaging of a locally brewed seasonal beer.\n\nThe increased popularity of Cajun music and culture has also led to more nonlocal attention for the event. In 2011 the NPR show Snap Judgement did a series of interviews at one event and the courir was used in a story line by David Simon for his HBO series \"Treme\". In 2014 the HBO crime drama \"True Detective\" included images of courir participants and created a cult group whose roots lay partially in the rural Mardi Gras traditions.\n\nPeople escape from ordinary life through the alcohol and the roles they portray in costume. In the early morning the riders or runners or \"Mardi Gras\" (as the troop and its individual members are known) gather in a central meeting place. As they gather, \"Le Capitaine\" (the leader of the Mardi Gras) and his co-capitaines explain the rules and traditions that must be followed. The Capitaine usually rides on horseback, wears a cape and carries a small flag. After he organizes the troop, the bands begin to play and he leads them on the route. Traditions vary in each town with the way it is carried out. Some towns have people on horse back, some on trailers and some on foot, and others use a variation of all three methods. The Capitaine is the first to approach the houses along the route, to ask permission to enter onto their property. At this point, in the spirit of frivolity, individual \"Mardi Gras\" will attempt to sneak onto the property. They are held in check by the Capitaines, who sometimes brandish a plaited burlap whip.\n\nThe whips are designed to be flexible and not to inflict any serious damage onto their victims, but do produce a loud noise for the edification of onlookers. Participants claim one has not fully participated until one has been whipped. Once they are on the property, the revelers play a variety of pranks on the farmers and beg for food for the communal gumbo that lies at the end of the route. A prize ingredient is a live chicken, which is usually thrown into the air for the drunken \"Mardi Gras\" to chase through the muddy yards and fields.\n\nThe Mardi Gras song, known in the local Cajun French as \"La Danse de Mardi Gras\" and \"La Vieille Chanson de Mardi Gras\", is a traditional tune sung by the participants, although the exact lyrics vary greatly from town to town. The melody of the traditional folk song is similar to melodies of the Bretons from the northern coast of France. The tune is played in a minor mode not generally found in other Cajun music. This version is sung at the Church Point \"Courir de Mardi Gras\":\n\nAnd the same song in English:\n\nA version of the song by the Balfa Brothers was included in the 1992 film \"Passion Fish\". Many other musicians have recorded versions of the song, with notable artists being Zachary Richard Steve Riley and the Mamou Playboys, BeauSoleil and Cedric Watson.\n\nMany of the traditional costumes are derivatives of the costumes worn in early rural France during the same celebration. The costumes not only conceal the identities of the participants, but also allow them to parody authority figures and society. Role reversals can be employed such men dressing up like women or the rich to pose as the poor. The costumes also directly mock the nobility, the clergy and the educated; celebrants wear miter hats, mortarboards and capuchons, which were initially designed to mock the tall pointy hats worn by noble women. These hats are still worn, primarily by men. The name \"capuchon\" comes from the same root word, \"cappa\" in Latin, meaning a cape or hood, that gives us \"cap\" in English and \"chapeau\" in French. Chaperon (headgear) describes the development of the word. The hats are vibrantly decorated to match (or intentionally mis-match) the colorful Mardi Gras costumes that they accompany. The capuchons worn by Mardi Gras celebrants are completely unrelated to the pointy hats worn by the Ku Klux Klan (KKK), founded after the American Civil War, and, in fact, predate the KKK costumes by several hundred years.\n\nOriginally the costumes were made from old work clothes decorated with cloth remnants and pieces of feed sack material, as many of the participants could not afford to buy material strictly for the event. This led to a patchwork style that has become associated with the costuming of the event. The shirts and pants of the costume are made by sewing together various pieces of cloth in a patchwork style. The strips of cloth are cut into fringing, and are sewn onto the sleeves, up and down the legs, and on the capuchon. The end effect is a riot of color and pattern. These costumes are also believed to have originated in Medieval times. The masks are made by taking ordinary wire mesh window screen and attaching large protruding noses and painting on features such as eyes and mouths. The masks are almost see through, but usually not enough to discern the wearer's identity. Many costumes and masks include animal features like beaks, feathers, hair, fur or tails.\nEach community in the Acadiana area celebrates their take on the traditional \"Courir de Mardi Gras\". Although there are many variations, most still practice the time honored tradition with \"Le Capitaine\" leading masked revelers on horseback to gather ingredients for making the communal gumbo. A few notable examples have gained attention as vital parts of the local Cajun culture.\n\nIn Basile the Courir was suspended during World War II, but was re-established during the 1960s. A provision allowing women to be a part of the Courir has been in place since the 1980s, and they are also permitted to serve as capitaines. The Basile \"Courir de Mardi Gras\" have a tradition of begging for nickels (called \"cinq sous\"). The participants come up to bystanders with an open palm in the traditional begging gesture, and if that does not work, they will try to dig into the pockets or clothes of the bystanders as a prank in an attempt to find the nickels.\n\nThe rural Mardi Gras in Choupic involves a ritual chasing and flogging with willow tree branches. Young, unmarried men from sixteen or seventeen years old up into their twenties secretly organize the run each year, and they do not disclose their participation in the run to anyone. Once a man is married, he voluntarily stops his participation in the Mardi Gras run. Traditionally, the Mardis Gras were on foot, but today some adaptations have been made, such as the use of pickup trucks and the use of three-wheelers by some participants. The Mardis Gras meet early Mardi Gras morning at Possum Square and then climb into the back of a few pickup trucks to hide. The pickup trucks carry the Mardis Gras from one residential section to another where they chase the children of the town, and make them recite Catholic prayers before giving them their pre-Lenten flogging with willow tree branches or sometimes with the flexible end of a fishing pole. The Choupic courir de Mardi Gras differs from other courirs in that it does not involve the chasing of chickens nor ritual begging nor the use of horses as a means of transportation.\n\nIn Church Point the rural Mardi Gras is basically the same as it was in the old days of the early settlers. In 1961 Elton Richard formally organized the event, which until then had been individual, independent groups of riders. Only men are permitted to participate in the run, and all \"Mardi Gras\" must be fully masked and costumed. The Capitaine holds his position as leader for year after year, until he decides to relinquish it. He appoints his co-capitaines who, like himself, must not be masked. The \"Chanson de Mardi Gras\" in Church Point has its own unique lyrics. The Church Point Courir is held on the Sunday before Mardi Gras, a consequence of the formal organization in 1961. Elton Richard and Senator Paul Tate of Mamou flipped a coin to see who would have their official courir on Mardi Gras Day. Mamou won and as a result the Church Point Mardi Gras is on Sunday.\n\nIn Duralde, an unincorporated village between the towns of Mamou and Basile on the southwestern prairies of Louisiana, is one of the Creole Mardi Gras'. Participants at times wear \"white face\", a way that the Mardi Gras runners dress as \"the other\" and overturn social conventions and the world for a day.\n\nElton, Louisiana is a small town in Jefferson Davis Parish, Louisiana 15 miles west of Eunice on U.S. Route 190. Although it was defunct for a long time, the Elton courir was revived in the mid-1990s. It follows the same route and its participants sing the same local variation of the Chanson as the courir in 1925. The ride starts at sunrise just to the north of town and goes through the Coushatta Indian Reservation and then heads south back toward Elton. Like many of the traditional Courirs the ride is an all-male affair.\n\nIn Eunice the celebration dates from when the town was first established in the late 19th century. It was abandoned for a short time during World War II when many of the local young men were in the army, but was restarted in 1946. The roughly 2000 participants, both male and female, assemble at the National Guard Armory at the corner of South 9th Street and Maple Avenue at 6 a.m., and start the run 8 a.m. The route is long. They stop at farms along the route and beg for gumbo ingredients and call out \"Cinq-sous pour les Mardi Gras!\" or \"Nickels for the Mardi Gras'!\" If ingredients or money are given, they thank the givers of charity with a dance. By 3:00 p.m. the revelers return to town for a parade along Second Street. In 1997 a new addition was added to the festivities, the baking of the world's largest king cake.\n\nGheens is located between Raceland and Lockport, Louisiana, about from New Orleans. Every year during their Cajun Mardi Gras Chase 20,000 people flock to the town of less than 1000 people for the event. Unlike other Cajun Mardi Gras' celebrations, the Gheens event features teen-aged boys and men dressed as ghouls riding in pickup trucks. After the morning parades the group meets behind the local church, where costumes are donned and the ground rules are laid out by the veteran runners to the newly initiated. Each of the newcomers must line up and be given a swat by each of the veterans with the yard long willow branches so they know how bad the switches can hurt if over used. The runners are given bells to pin on their clothing. They then load up into their trucks and attack the town with their willow switches, searching for children. They chase the children to \"beat the sinful stuff out of them so they can be clean for the lent\". Their young victims have the choice to either fall to their knees in a penitent position and say \"Pardon! Pardon!\" or make the \"Mardi Gras\" chase them, often taunting and daring them to catch and beat them more.\n\nIn Evangeline Parish, the Mamou celebration starts with a street dance held the Monday evening before Mardi Gras, with bands such as Steve Riley and the Mamou Playboys performing. A crowd favorite is the Mamou variation of the \"Chanson de Mardi Gras\". The next day a street party begins, in anticipation of the Courir, who have been riding through the countryside collecting ingredients for the evening gumbo. The Mamou Courir abides by the older traditions, with the Capitaines unmasked and all other revelers masked in the all-male troupe. They are accompanied by a wagon for the musicians and trailers for participants who do not have horses.\n\nThe event was suspended twice in its history, during the American Civil War and during World War Two. By the mid-1940s the \"courir\" tradition in Mamou had declined but was revived by Alfred \"Fred\" Tate, Revon Reed, and Paul Tate, proprietors of the then newly opened \"Fred's Lounge\".\n\nThe run in Soileau, Louisiana is one of the few Creole \"Courir de Mardi Gras\" in southwest Louisiana, and is thought to be just as old as the Cajun versions. The rural community of Soileau is located to the west of Duralde in Allen Parish, Louisiana not far from the Evangeline Parish, Louisiana line. They hold their run on the Monday before Mardi Gras, with its starting point at Andrew Cezar's sulky racing track. From there they head down Louisiana Highway 104.\n\nIn Creole, a small town in southern Cameron Parish, Mardi Gras celebrations had been defunct for over three decades. This region of Southwest Louisiana has been plagued by multiple hurricanes throughout the years, including total destruction by Hurricanes Audrey, Rita, and Ike. As a result, the area has a very small, close-knit, and self-reliant population. The courir was revived in 2014 by a group of Cameron Parish natives. The group mainly consisted of young men who were Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans. Some were displaced by the hurricanes, living in different parts of the state, and looking to bring comradery and tradition back to their community. The Mardi Gras ride throughout the countryside in cattle trailers pulled by pickup trucks. Men and women ride together. The Mardi Gras stop at multiple houses and business in and around the town of Creole to dance, drink, play tricks, chase chickens, and gather ingredients for their communal gumbo that night. They wear traditional Cajun Mardi Gras costumes as well as modern variations. The two to three unmasked Capitaines regulate with burlap whips. A Fais do-do follows the gumbo. This courir is held two weekends before Mardi Gras day, however, dates are subject to change from year to year.\n\nThe longstanding tradition of the \"courir\" in the small community of Tee Mamou had waned by the late 1960s when new capitane was instrumental in preserving the tradition. An all women's group was established a few years later. The women's group does their run on Saturday before Mardi Gras and the men's run is on Mardi Gras day. The capitane and co-capitanes of Tee Mamou use a special variation of the burlap whip associated with the courir. The route of the courir ends in the nearby community of Iota, Louisiana. Iota has an organized event, with Cajun and Zydeco bands playing on the main stage throughout Mardi Gras day. The highlight of the day is the arrival of the Tee Mamou \"courirs\" riding into the town in a wagon after the route through the country. The courir then gathers on the main stage with the capitaine to sing their version of the \"Chanson de Mardi Gras\". Once this task is completed, the Mardi Gras descend on the downtown area dancing and begging for loose change.\n\n"}
{"id": "51082891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51082891", "title": "Cuban carnival", "text": "Cuban carnival\n\nThe first African drums were heard in Cuba, since the 16th century, only during the celebration of certain feasts, such as the Día de Reyes (Three Kings Day) and Carnestolendas or Carnival, because their use was restricted to some mutual aid societies, called \"Cabildos de nación\", where the slaves and their descendants were allowed to gather and practice their cultural and religious traditions.\nThe music and dance of the Cuban Carnival was always very popular in Cuba, and has exerted an important influence in other genres of the Cuban music, such as the \"Conga de Salón\" and the \"Mozambique\" rhythm. the Cuban Conga has transcended the national fronteers to become one of the most famous and cherished genres of the Cuban music outside the country, like the well known Congas de Salón from the late 1930s and early 1940s Bim Bam Bum, from Rafael Hernández and Uno, dos y tres, from Rafael Ortiz, which at a later time was known in English as: One, two, three, Kick! Most recently, in 1985, the famous Conga from the Cuban-American group Miami Sound Machine, triggered a true frenzy in the US and all around the world. Its success is only comparable to the popularity of the 1930s Conga de Salón or the Conga lines of Desi Arnaz during the 1950s.\n\nThe miscegenation between blacks and whites in Cuba began with the arrival to the Island of the first slave African women around 1550 but their cultures remained relatively independent one from the other for hundreds of years, because the slaves didn’t have access to their Masters cultural traditions, and the Spanish people perceived the African culture as barbaric and primitive. The following description of a black slave's feast, included in a story from the \"costumbrista\" writer Francisco Baralt, evidence the negative image that the Spanish had toward the cultural manifestations of the Africans. \nAccording to Baralt: \"those (African) dances have such a weird aspect, because of the place, the time and the individuals that perform them, that even those who observe them every day receive an impression difficult to express: we don’t know if it is curiosity or disgust, if it repels or attract its primitive and savage character, that seem to put between this feasts and those of the white men the same distance that exists between the deluge and our times.\"\n\nThe music from the African people that arrived to Cuba from Spain, or directly from Africa, was only allowed since the beginning of Colonial times, within certain mutual aid societies and religious fraternities which foundation dates from the 16th century. According to David H. Brown, those societies, called Cabildos, \"provided aid in case of disease or death, celebrated masses for the souls of the death, collected funds for the liberation from slavery of its members, regularly organized dances and recreational activities during Sundays and Holidays, and sponsored masses, processions and Carnival dances (now called \"comparsas\") around the annual cycle of Catholic festivals\"\n\nThe Cabildos organized big street processions during Sundays, the celebration of Saints and some important Holidays, where their leaders and companions dressed with clothes appropriate for the royalty and high rank military, while those who participated in the processions and dances wear \"feathered head pieces and African masks with horns and vegetal ornaments.\" The Three Kings Day, celebrated in January 6, during the Epiphany, was the most important of those festivities.\n\nAnother important feast where the Cabildos participated was celebrated during the three days before \"Ash Wednesday\", which at a later time became the Carnestolendas or Carnival. In 1697, the Italian Gemeli Careri mentioned those celebrations: \"… on Sunday, February 9th, the black and mulatoes, with picturesque apparels, formed a gathering to have fun at the Carnival.\" According to Virtudes Feliú: \"… This is the most ancient information about the traditional Havanese \"comparsas\", and it makes clear that, indeed, the blacks and mulatoes enjoyed themselves at the Carnestolendas that Hispanics and their descendants celebrated, wearing unusual clothes related to those feasts in a gathering that Careri called a \"congregation\", most probable because the term \"comparsa\" was not yet in use.\"\n\nWe can assume that the musical instruments utilized in the old Cabildos were the African membranophones that were not utilized in the ritual celebrations, such as the bembé and yuka drums. In reference to the difference between the ritual African drums, that should only be played in religious ceremonies, and the secular drums, that may actually be played in public, Argelier León remarks: \n\"Differently from the ritual drums batá and iyesá, which were tuned with a tensor system in N…, the bembé drums could be tuned by applying heat, because they didn’t possess the ritual character of the consecrated drums.\"\n\nLeón also says that \"…The bembé drums are varied, from those of a big size – more than a meter tall and of a cylindrical shape – to small drums made from containers. In certains areas of Cuba, the bembé drums are made from palm tree trunks, with just one nailed drumhead, and little more than half a meter tall…\"\nThe yuka ensemble was composed by three drums made from raw wooden trunks (called in size order: caja, mula and cachimbo) with hide drum-heads nailed to the body. They also utilized a hollow bambu piece beaten with two bamboo sticks called \"guagua’’ or \"catá\"; and also beating over the drum side.\n\nIn reference to the drums utilized by the Africans in their feasts, the \"costumbrista\" author Francisco Baralt wrote around 1846: \"The only instrument they use in these feasts is a type of drum made from one wooden piece of about two to four feet long. With an irregular ..and a more or less conical or cylindrical shape. It was hollowwed up to half of its size, and usually covered over its larger side with a raw goat hide.\"\n\nThese descriptions also coincide with the visual representations of the Carnivals, during the 19th century, by artists such as Víctor Patricio de Landaluze and Federico Miahle; where frequently appear some cylindrical drums with a nailed hide on the top, performed between the legs of the standing drummer, in a very similar way as the yuka drums are played even today. In numerous prints of Landaluze and Miahle about the Carnival festivities, we can observe some musical instruments, like drums and horns, that were utilized at that time. In a famous Miahle print from 1855, called Three Kings Days, we can see a drummer to the left side, playing a cylindric drum between his legs, and another man at the back, with a hat, blowing a curved horn.\n\nAccording with David H. Brown: \"After 1792, when the Cabildos were relegated to the \"extramuros\" zone of the city, the Carnival processions came out of their locations and went through the entrances toward the fortified \"intramuros\" area. They marched through the residential and commercial streets of Mercaderes, Obispo and O’Reilly until they reached the central Plaza de Armas, the site of the Captain General of the Island Palace. Inside the Palace patio, as in other stops along the way, the procession´s members represented dances, asked for and received gifts (aguinaldos), and after that, they returned to their homes.\"\n\nIn the following story from 1866, the author mentions the characteristic sounds as well as the instruments that were performed by those participants in the procession of a Three Kings Day \"comparsa\" in Havana:\n\n\"Innumerable groups of black Africans \"comparsas\" went along through every street of the Capital city. The hurly-burly is immense and its aspect horrifying… The great noise created by all the drums, horns and whistles deafen the passers-by everywhere; in a corner a Yoruba king surrounded by his court of blacks, here a Gangá, another one there from a Carabalí nation… all of them, kings for a day, singing in a monotonous and unpleasant drone in their African languages.\"\n\nAt the beginning of the Independence war, in 1895, the colonial authorities banned all the Carnival activities indefinitely, and this prohibition stayed in effect until the conclusion of the hostilities, at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nThe Mayor of Havana, Carlos de La Torre, reinstate the Carnival festivities officially in 1902. The massive participation of a population of African origin in the Independence war resulted in a greater integration of the Afro-Cubans in social activities, and facilitated a more important participation of this segment of the population in the Carnival during the first years of the Republic. For the first time blacks were allowed to play their music and dances along with the \"comparsas\" of white people, such as El Alacrán, the Model T cars covered by flower arrangements and the \"carrozas\" (floats).\n\nSince 1902, the municipal authorities began again to strictly regulate the organization of the Carnival processions, showing a preference for the ornamented cars, the floats, the military bands, and the presentation of the King and the Queen, in detriment of the manifestation of Afro-Cuban origin, such as the \"comparsa\" and the Conga, and around 1916, the suppression of the \"comparsa\" groups in Havana was almost total. Because during the period from the 1900s and 1910s, the Carnival activities have attracted thousands of foreign visitors to the Capital each spring, finally in 1937, the authorities of the city decided to reauthorize the \"comparsas\" in the Carnival \"paseos\" (strolls).\n\nIn 1937, the \"comparsas\" began to permanently participate in the Havanese Carnivals, parading through the Paseo del Prado with distinctive choreographies, dances and songs. Those groups included: El Alacrán, from the Cerro neighborhood, Los Marqueses from Atarés, Las Boyeras from Los Sitios, Los Dandys from Belén, La Sultana from Colón, Las Jardineras from Jesús María, Los Componedoras de Batea from Cayo Hueso, El Príncipe del Raj from Marte, las Mexicanas from Dragones, Los Moros Azules from Guanabacoa, El Barracón from Pueblo Nuevo and Los Guaracheros from Regla.\n\nCelebrados en el mes de Julio, Los Carnavales de Santiago de Cuba y otros pueblos orientales poseían sus propias características. En vez de encontrarse reducidas a ciertas calles y plazas como en la capital, las comparsas santiagueras se extendían a toda la ciudad y la población participaba más activamente en ellas. El estilo y el carácter de la música y la danza eran también differentes.\n\nSoon after 1959, the Revolutionary authorities changed the celebration of the Carnivals from February and March to July 26. At the beginning, this change was made in order not to interrupt the sugar cane harvest in 1979, but it was kept in place at a later time with the purpose of celebrating the \"triumph of socialism.\" Between 1990 and 1995 isolated presentations were offered, which were associated to political events. Those included some groups that went to the streets in November 1993, in order to celebrate the anniversary of the CDRs (Revolution Defense Committees). Finally, in an attempt to attract a larger number of tourists, the government authorized again a modest Carnival celebration, preceding the celebration of Lent (Cuaresma), instead of in July, when it was previously accustomed.\n\nThe Cuban Carnival music ensembles used to be varied, but it is also possible to determine certain patterns in reference to the instrumental groups utilized in Havana and Santiago de Cuba, which differ significantly.\n\nThis is how Argeliers León describes the basic instrumental of the Havanese comparsa: \"…In other zones of the population still remained other instrumental groups such as those of the comparsas, a Conga, a tumbadora and a quinto, a snare drum (without the snares), a double cow-bell or \"jimagua\", a bass drum or two frying pans attached to a wooden box or a board. This equipment may be expanded with two tumbadoras and one or more trumpets.\n\nThe drum called Conga or tumbadora, of an evident Bantu origin, is, according to Fernando Ortiz: \"… a drum from African origin, made of wooden slabs and iron rings, from approximately a meter long, barrel shape, and opened on one end with only one hide drumhead fixed by nails to the body of the drum…\" It was tuned using heat in the past, but currently is tuned with metallic tuning pegs.\n\nThe tumbadora's diameter are as follows, from treble to bass: requinto (9 to 10 inches), quinto (10 t 11 inches), Conga (macho or tres-dos) (11 to 12 inches), tumbadora (or hembra) (12 to 13 inches), retumbadora (or mambisa) (14 inches).\n\nIn the comparsas and Congas of Santiago de Cuba various bimembranophone drums, beaten with drumsticks, are utilized: one requinto, three Congas (without any relationship with the Havanese Conga), which are subdivided in two redoblantes or galletas, and one pilón. They also utilize various membranophone drums (with a conical shape and only one drumhead, played with the palms of the hands) called bocúes. The drums are complemented by three percuted metallic idiophones (made from discarded wheel rims), which are selected considering its sonority.\n\nThe wind instruments are represented by the piercing sound of the corneta china, a double-reed Chinese instrument that was inserted in the Santiago de Cuba Congas in 1915., and that always performs the initial call to start the Conga (arrollar), which is how the dancing style of the Conga is called, characterized by a peculiar form of rhythmic march, dragging the feet and moving the hips and shoulders along with the music rhythm.\n\nThe musical style of the Havanese Conga is quite different from the Conga Santiaguera, and maybe the element that mostly differentiate both styles is a peculiar rhythmic accent within the 4/4 meter, which is executed by the Havanese Bass drum or the Conga (drum) from Santiago, respectively.\n\nIn the Havanese style, this accent falls on a syncopated note on the third beat of the measure, configurating a very well known rhythmic pattern (one, two, three, cick).\nIn the Conga from Santiago, the stressed beats of the measure are more emphasized, thus inducing a powerful impulse feeling, which incites to move the feet along with the rhythmic pulse. In this case, the drum accent is played between the fourth beat of the previous measure and the first of the following measure.\n\nCarnival of Santiago de Cuba\n\nConga (music)\n"}
{"id": "224424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224424", "title": "David Hunter", "text": "David Hunter\n\nDavid Hunter (July 21, 1802 – February 2, 1886) was a Union general during the American Civil War. He achieved fame by his unauthorized 1862 order (immediately rescinded) emancipating slaves in three Southern states, for his leadership of United States troops during the Valley Campaigns of 1864, and as the president of the military commission trying the conspirators involved with the assassination of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln.\n\nHunter (son of Andrew Hunter & Mary Stockton) was born in Troy, New York, or Princeton, New Jersey. He was the cousin of writer-illustrator David Hunter Strother (who would also serve as a Union Army general) and his maternal grandfather was Richard Stockton, a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence. He graduated from the United States Military Academy, in 1822, and was commissioned a second lieutenant in the 5th U.S. Infantry Regiment. Records of his military service prior to the Civil War contain significant gaps. From 1828 to 1831, he was stationed on the northwest frontier, at Fort Dearborn (Chicago, Illinois), where he met and married Maria Kinzie, the daughter of the city's first permanent white resident, John Kinzie. He served in the infantry for 11 years, and was appointed captain of the 1st U.S. Dragoons in 1833. He resigned from the Army in July 1836 and moved to Illinois, where he worked as a real estate agent or speculator. He rejoined the Army in November 1841 as a paymaster and was promoted to major in March 1842. One source claims that he saw action in the Second Seminole War (1838–42) and the Mexican–American War (1846–48).\n\nIn 1860, Hunter was stationed at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and he began a correspondence with Abraham Lincoln, focusing on Hunter's strong anti-slavery views. This relationship had long-lasting political effects, the first of which was an invitation to ride on Lincoln's inaugural train from Springfield, Illinois, to Washington, D.C., in February 1861. During this duty, Hunter suffered a dislocated collarbone at Buffalo, due to a crowd pressing the president-elect.\n\nSoon after the firing on Fort Sumter, Hunter was promoted to colonel of the 6th U.S. Cavalry, but three days later (May 17, 1861), his political connection to the Lincoln administration bore fruit and he was appointed the fourth-ranking brigadier general of volunteers, commanding a brigade in the Department of Washington. He was wounded in the neck and cheek while commanding a division under Irvin McDowell at the First Battle of Bull Run in July 1861. In August, he was promoted to major general of volunteers. He served as a division commander in the Western Army under Maj. Gen. John C. Frémont, and was appointed as commander of the Western Department on November 2, 1861, after Frémont was relieved of command due to his attempt to emancipate the slaves of rebellious slave holders. Hunter did not last long in this important responsibility and within two months was reassigned to the Department of Kansas, a post where there was little chance of getting in trouble. He did not accept his exile gracefully and wrote a series of fulminating protest letters to the president, who finally gave in to his complaints. In March 1862, Hunter was transferred again to command the Department of the South and the X Corps. \nHunter served as the president of the court-martial of Maj. Gen. Fitz John Porter (convicted for his actions at the Second Battle of Bull Run, but for which he was exonerated by an 1878 Board of Officers), and on the committee that investigated the loss of Harpers Ferry in the Maryland Campaign. He also served briefly as the Assistant Inspector General of the Department of the Gulf.\n\nHunter was a strong advocate of arming black men as soldiers for the Union cause. After the Battle of Fort Pulaski, he began enlisting black soldiers from the occupied districts of South Carolina and formed the first such Union Army regiment, the 1st South Carolina (African Descent), which he was initially ordered to disband, but eventually got approval from Congress for his action. A second controversy was caused by his issuing an order emancipating the slaves in Georgia, South Carolina, and Florida:\n\nThis order was quickly rescinded by President Abraham Lincoln, who was concerned about the political effects that it would have in the border states and who advocated instead a gradual emancipation with compensation for slave holders. Despite Lincoln's concerns that immediate emancipation in the South might drive some slave-holding Unionists to support the Confederacy, the national mood was quickly moving against slavery, especially within the Army. The president and Congress had already enacted several laws during the war to severely restrict the institution, beginning with the First Confiscation Act in August 1861 and culminating in Lincoln's own Emancipation Proclamation in September 1862, taking effect January 1, 1863. Concerned Confederate slave holders had worried since before the war started that its eventual goal would become the abolition of slavery and they reacted strongly to the Union effort to emancipate Confederate slaves. Confederate President Jefferson Davis issued orders to the Confederate army that Hunter was to be considered a \"felon to be executed if captured\".\n\nUndeterred by the president's reluctance and intent on extending American freedom to potential black soldiers, Hunter again flouted orders from the federal government and enlisted ex-slaves as soldiers in South Carolina without permission from the War Department. This action incensed border state slave holders, and Kentucky Representative Charles A. Wickliffe sponsored a resolution demanding a response.\n\nHunter quickly obliged with a sarcastic and defiant letter on June 23, 1862, in which he delivered a stern reminder to the Congress of his authority as a commanding officer in a war zone:\n\nWhile increasingly abolitionist Republicans in Congress were amused by the order, border state pro-slavery politicians such as Wickliffe and Robert Mallory were not. Mallory described the scene in Congress following the reading of the order as follows:\n\nThe War Department eventually forced Hunter to abandon this scheme, but the government nonetheless moved soon afterward to expand the enlistment of black men as military laborers. Congress approved the Confiscation Act of 1862, which effectively freed all slaves working within the armed forces by forbidding Union soldiers to aid in the return of fugitive slaves.\n\nIn 1863, Hunter wrote a letter to Confederate leader Jefferson Davis protesting against the Confederate army's brutal mistreatment of captured black U.S. soldiers. He lampooned the Confederates' claims that they were fighting for freedom, stating that the \"liberty\" that the Confederates were fighting for was the freedom to commit evil and enslave human beings:\n\nIn the Valley Campaigns of 1864, Union Maj. Gen. Franz Sigel was ordered by Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant to move into the Shenandoah Valley, threaten railroads and the agricultural economy there, and distract Robert E. Lee while Grant fought him in eastern Virginia. Sigel did a poor job, losing immediately at the Battle of New Market to a force that included cadets from the Virginia Military Institute (VMI). Hunter replaced Sigel in command of the Army of the Shenandoah and the Department of West Virginia on May 21, 1864. Grant ordered Hunter to employ scorched earth tactics similar to those that would be used later in that year during Sherman's March to the Sea; he was to move through Staunton to Charlottesville and Lynchburg, \"living off the country\" and destroying the Virginia Central Railroad \"beyond possibility of repair for weeks.\" Lee was concerned enough about Hunter that he dispatched a corps under Lt. Gen. Jubal A. Early to deal with him.\nOn June 5, Hunter defeated Maj. Gen. William E. \"Grumble\" Jones at the Battle of Piedmont. Following orders, he moved up the Valley (southward) through Staunton to Lexington, destroying military targets and other industries (such as blacksmiths and stables) that could be used to support the Confederacy. After reaching Lexington, his troops burned down VMI on June 11 in retaliation of that institution sending cadets to fight at New Market. Hunter ordered the home of former Governor John Letcher burned in retaliation for its absent owner's having issued \"a violent and inflammatory proclamation ... inciting the population of the country to rise and wage guerrilla warfare on my troops.\" Hunter also wreaked havoc on Washington College in Lexington, later Washington and Lee University. According to Fitzhugh Lee's biography of his uncle, Robert E. Lee, \"[Hunter] had no respect for colleges, or the peaceful pursuits of professors and students, or the private dwellings of citizens, though occupied by women and children only, and during his three days occupancy of Lexington in June, 1864, the college buildings were dismantled, apparatus destroyed, and the books mutilated.\"\n\nHunter's campaign in the Valley came to an end after he was defeated by Early at the Battle of Lynchburg on June 19. His headquarters was at Sandusky House, listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982, and now operated as a house museum. After the battle, Hunter retreated across the Allegheny Mountains into West Virginia, thereby taking his army out of the war altogether for a few weeks and allowing Early a free rein in the Valley. Though this retreat was widely criticized, Ulysses Grant in his Memoirs excused it as follows: \"General Hunter, owing to a want of ammunition to give battle, retired from before the place. Unfortunately, this want of ammunition left him no choice of route for his return but by the way of the Gauley and Kanawha rivers, thence up the Ohio River, returning to Harper's Ferry by way of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.\" Hunter would maintain until his dying day that it had been a strategically sound move and he wrote a series of persistent letters to Secretary of War Edwin Stanton and President Lincoln arguing that the retreat was entirely justified. He badgered Grant with letters a few months later arguing that the army and officers he inherited from Franz Sigel were below average, and that he had never been told that he had any assignment to defend Washington DC. After the war, he wrote a letter to Robert E. Lee asking if he as a fellow soldier did not agree with the soundness of the retreat. Lee, who had a loathing of Hunter, wrote back that he had no clue what the exact strategic value of retreating into West Virginia was, but that it had been extremely helpful to himself and the Confederate cause.\n\nThe burning of the Virginia Military Academy by Hunter also angered the Confederates and made them more vengeful than before. After retaking possession of the Valley, Early described the scene as \"truly heart-rending. Houses had been burned, and helpless women and children left without shelter. The country had been stripped of provisions and many families left without a morsel to eat. Furniture and bedding had been cut to pieces, and old men and women and children robbed of all the clothing they had except that on their backs. Ladies trunks had been rifled and their dresses torn to pieces in mere wantonness. Even the negro girls had lost their little finery. . . At Lexington he had burned the Military Institute, with all of its contents, including its library and scientific apparatus; and Washington College had been plundered and the statue of George Washington stolen. The residence of Ex-Governor Letcher at that place had been burned by orders, and but a few minutes given Mrs. Letcher and her family to leave the house. . . [A] Mr. Creigh, had been hung, because, on a former occasion, he had killed a straggling and marauding Federal soldier while in the act of insulting and outraging the ladies of his family.\" The Confederate raids into Maryland and Pennsylvania in July were accompanied by widespread looting and destruction.\n\nOn August 1, Grant placed Maj. Gen Phil Sheridan in command of the effort to destroy Jubal Early's army. The Shenandoah, Maryland, and Washington DC area all fell under Hunter's military department, but Grant had no intention of allowing Hunter any direct command over the campaign against Early. He therefore informed him that he could retain department command on paper while Sheridan did the active field campaigning. Hunter however declined this offer, stating that he had been so beset by contradictory War Department orders that he had no idea where Jubal Early's army even was, and he would rather just turn everything over to Sheridan. Grant immediately accepted and relieved Hunter of his post. He would serve in no more combat commands. He was promoted to brevet major general in the regular army on March 13, 1865, an honor that was relatively common for senior officers late in the war.\n\nHunter served in the honor guard at the funeral of Abraham Lincoln and accompanied his body back to Springfield. He was the president of the military commission trying the conspirators of Lincoln's assassination, from May 8 to July 15, 1865. He retired from the Army in July 1866. He was the author of \"Report of the Military Services of Gen. David Hunter, U.S.A., during the War of the Rebellion\", published in 1873.\n\nHunter died in Washington, D.C., and is buried at the Princeton Cemetery in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53625000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53625000", "title": "David Urban", "text": "David Urban\n\nDavid Urban (born c. 1964) is an American lobbyist, political operative, and political commentator for CNN who worked on the 2016 Donald Trump presidential campaign, helping to orchestrate the 2016 Republican National Convention and serving as a senior advisor in the successful effort to win Pennsylvania. It has been reported that Urban has been considered for several positions in the Trump Administration, including Chair of the Republican National Committee, White House Deputy Chief of Staff, White House Chief of Staff, and Ambassador to Saudi Arabia. He is currently the Chairman of the American Battle Monuments Commission.\n\nA native of Aliquippa, Beaver County, Pennsylvania, Urban was recruited to play football at Harvard University, but opted to instead attend the United States Military Academy at West Point, where he was featured in the Black Knight's 1982 media guide. An injury cut short his football career, and he graduated in 1986 with a B.S.. Urban later simultaneously attended the University of Pennsylvania where he earned an M.G.A., and Temple University School of Law, where he received a J.D..\n\nUrban served as an artillery officer in the United States Army's 101st Airborne Division, from 1986 to 1991. While serving in the Persian Gulf, he was awarded the Bronze Star Medal for meritorious achievement during combat operations in Operation Desert Storm.\n\nUrban worked with the Philadelphia-based law firm of Ballard Spahr as a public finance attorney from 1994 to 1997, when he became chief of staff to Senator Arlen Specter.\n\nIn 2002 Urban became a partner at the American Continental Group (ACG), where he now serves as President. ACG is a Washington-based lobbying firm that has worked with companies such as Comcast, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Raytheon. He was recognized on \"The Hill\"'s \"Top Lobbyists\" list in 2015, 2016, and 2017.\n\nIn April 2016, Urban joined Donald Trump's presidential campaign as senior advisor. He was the deputy director of caucus operations and senior member on the ground in Cleveland for the 2016 Republican National Convention, spending over two months on that effort, and working to quell disruption by \"Never Trump\" delegates from the campaigns of other candidates. Urban developed a relationship of frequent cell phone contact with Trump. In November 2016, Urban helped gain the first presidential Republican win for Pennsylvania in over 28 years, and it was initially reported that he was being considered as the next chair of the Republican National Committee, or White House Deputy Chief of Staff. The potential appointment was supported by former Republican Senator Rick Santorum and former Democratic Governor Ed Rendell.\n\nAs a political commentator for CNN, Urban has commented on matters such as the House passage of the AHCA, Trump's April 2017 National Rifle Association speech, and Trump's 100 day mark. , Urban was involved in the Pennsylvania gubernatorial campaign of businessman and fellow West Point graduate Paul Mango. It has frequently been reported that Trump was considering Urban to replace Reince Priebus as White House Chief of Staff.\n\nUrban was an adjunct professor at Carnegie Mellon University's H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management. Urban is a member of the board of directors of the Museum of the American Revolution, and the Johnny Mac Soldiers Fund, and a co-owner of PoliticsPA. In May 2018, he was appointed by President Trump to the board of the American Battle Monuments Commission, and in July 2018, was elevated by Trump to be Chairman of that Commission.\n"}
{"id": "8360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8360", "title": "December 26", "text": "December 26\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20925299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20925299", "title": "Edinburgh's Hogmanay", "text": "Edinburgh's Hogmanay\n\nEdinburgh's Hogmanay is the observance of Hogmanay—the Scottish celebration of the New Year—held in Edinburgh, Scotland. \n\nThe annual Hogmanay celebration was originally an informal street party focused on the Tron Kirk in the High Street of the Old Town. Since 1993, it has been officially organised with the focus moved to Princes Street. In 1996, over 300,000 people attended, leading to ticketing of the main street party in later years up to a limit of 100,000 tickets. \n\nIn 2003–04, most of the organised events were cancelled at short notice due to very high winds. Similarly, the 2006–07 celebrations in Edinburgh were cancelled on the day, again due to high winds and heavy rain.\n\n\"Hogmanay\" is the Scots word for New Year's Eve. In Scotland, New Year's (\"Hogmanay\") is celebrated with several different customs, such as First-Footing, which involves friends or family members going to each other's houses with a gift of whisky and sometimes a lump of coal.\n\nIn Edinburgh, it now covers four days of processions, concerts and fireworks, with the street party beginning on Hogmanay. Alternative tickets are available for entrance into the Princes Street Gardens concert and Céilidh, where well-known artists perform and ticket holders can participate in traditional Scottish céilidh dancing. On New Year's Day the celebrations continue with the Stoats Loony Dook parade. \n\nThe Edinburgh Hogmanay celebrations are among the largest in the world. Celebrations in Edinburgh in 1996–97 were recognised by the Guinness Book of Records at the world's largest New Year party, with approximately 400,000 people in attendance. Numbers have since been restricted due to safety concerns.\n\nEdinburgh, the Scottish capital, hosts one of the world's most famous New Year celebrations. The celebration is focused on a major street party along Princes Street. The cannon is fired at Edinburgh Castle at the stroke of midnight, followed by a large fireworks display. Edinburgh hosts a festival of four or five days, beginning on 28 December, and lasting until New Year's Day or 2 January, which is also a bank holiday in Scotland.\n\nOther cities across Scotland, such as Aberdeen, Glasgow and Stirling have large organised celebrations too, including fireworks at midnight.\n\nBBC Scotland broadcast the celebrations in Edinburgh to a Scottish audience, with the celebrations also screened across the world. STV covers both worldwide New Year celebrations, and details of events happening around Scotland. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8780694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8780694", "title": "Entertainment for All", "text": "Entertainment for All\n\nEntertainment for All Expo or E for All was a public video game trade show, created to allow the general public to see and experience new products from the video game industry. The inaugural E for All Expo was open October 18 to October 21, 2007, at the Los Angeles Convention Center.\nThe Second E For All Convention took place from October 3 through October 5, 2008 at the Los Angeles Convention Center.\n\nOn January 5, 2007, IDG World Expo, announced the first annual E for All Expo, the only video game event to receive the endorsement of the Entertainment Software Association (ESA), the trade organization that organized the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). E for All was launched in response to ESA's reorganization of the E3 event to the E3 Business and Media Summit, where only invitees from the press and in the industry can attend. The expo offers an opportunity for the general public to see and try new products.\n\nOn September 16, 2007, Games Media Properties, announced that they will no longer produce the World Series of Video Games. This announcement reduced the size of Entertainment for All's show floor by 35%.\n\nIDG World Expo is also responsible for producing tradeshows, conferences and events such as Macworld, LinuxWorld, and GreenXchange Xpo.\n\nThe 2007 Expo had an attendance of about 18,000.\n\nTwo highly anticipated titles, Nintendo's \"Super Smash Bros. Brawl\" and Konami's \"\" were present in playable form. Organizers consider the event a success.\n\nIDG World Expo announced the date for the 2008 Entertainment For All show months before their 2007 took place. They announced that the date would be August 28–30, the same weekend that the annual Penny Arcade Expo video game show falls on. The event took place October 3–5.\n\nE for All is now no longer held because the convention was merged back into the Electronic Entertainment Expo by the ESA in time for the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2009.\n\nIn 2017, almost a decade after the last E for All, E3 became open to the public for the first time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12888", "title": "Francis Gary Powers", "text": "Francis Gary Powers\n\nFrancis Gary Powers (August 17, 1929 – August 1, 1977)—often referred to as simply Gary Powers—was an American pilot whose Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) U-2 spy plane was shot down while flying a reconnaissance mission in Soviet Union airspace, causing the 1960 U-2 incident.\n\nHe later worked as a helicopter pilot for KNBC and died in a 1977 helicopter crash.\n\nPowers was born August 17, 1929, in Jenkins, Kentucky, the son of Oliver Winfield Powers (1904–1970), a coal miner, and his wife Ida Melinda Powers (; 1905–1991). His family eventually moved to Pound, Virginia, just across the state border. He was the second born and only male of six children.\n\nHis family lived in a mining town, and because of the hardships associated with the life in such a town, his father wanted Powers to become a doctor. He hoped his son would achieve the higher earnings of such a profession and felt the life of a doctor would involve less hardship than any job in his hometown.\n\nGraduating with a bachelor's degree from Milligan College in Tennessee in June 1950, he enlisted in the United States Air Force in October. He was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in December 1952 after completing his advanced training with USAF Pilot Training Class 52-H at Williams Air Force Base, Arizona. Powers was then assigned to the 468th Strategic Fighter Squadron at Turner Air Force Base, Georgia, as an F-84 Thunderjet pilot.\n\nHe married Barbara Gay Moore in Newnan, Georgia, on April 2, 1955.\n\nIn January 1956 he was recruited by the CIA. In May 1956 he began U-2 training at Watertown Strip, Nevada. His training was complete by August 1956 and his unit, the Second Weather Observational Squadron (Provisional) or Detachment 10-10, was deployed to Incirlik Air Base, Turkey. By 1960, Powers was already a veteran of many covert aerial reconnaissance missions.\n\nPowers was discharged from the Air Force in 1956 with the rank of captain. He then joined the CIA's U-2 program at the civilian grade of GS-12. U-2 pilots flew espionage missions at altitudes of , supposedly above the reach of Soviet air defenses. The U-2 was equipped with a state-of-the-art camera designed to take high-resolution photos from the stratosphere over hostile countries, including the Soviet Union. U-2 missions systematically photographed military installations and other important sites.\n\nThe primary mission of the U-2s was overflying the Soviet Union. Soviet intelligence had been aware of encroaching U-2 flights at least since 1958 if not sooner but lacked effective countermeasures until 1960. On May 1, 1960, Powers's U-2A, \"56-6693\", departed from a military airbase in Peshawar, Pakistan, with support from the U.S. Air Station at Badaber (Peshawar Air Station). This was to be the first attempt \"to fly all the way across the Soviet Union...but it was considered worth the gamble. The planned route would take us deeper into Russia than we had ever gone, while traversing important targets never before photographed.\"\n\nPowers was shot down by an S-75 Dvina (SA-2 Guideline) surface-to-air missile over Sverdlovsk. A total of 14 Dvinas were launched, one of which hit a MiG-19 jet fighter which was sent to intercept the U-2 but could not reach a high enough altitude. Its pilot, Sergei Safronov, ejected but died of his injuries. Another Soviet aircraft, a newly manufactured Su-9 on a transit flight, also attempted to intercept Powers's U-2. The unarmed Su-9 was directed to ram the U-2, but missed because of the large differences in speed (the Su-9 flew above Mach 1.1, while the U-2 flew at approximately Mach 0.6).\n\nAs Powers flew near Kosulino in the Ural Region, three S-75 Dvinas were launched at his U-2, with the first one hitting the aircraft. \"What was left of the plane began spinning, only upside down, the nose pointing upward toward the sky, the tail down toward the ground.\" Powers was unable to activate the plane's self-destruct mechanism before he was thrown out of the plane after releasing the canopy and his seat belt. While descending under his parachute, Powers had time to scatter his escape map, and rid himself of part of his suicide device, a silver dollar coin suspended around his neck containing a poison-laced injection pin, though he kept the poison pin. \"Yet I was still hopeful of escape.\" He hit the ground hard, was immediately captured, and taken to Lubyanka Prison in Moscow. Powers did note a second chute after landing on the ground, \"some distance away and very high, a lone red and white parachute\".\n\nWhen the U.S. government learned of Powers's disappearance over the Soviet Union, they issued a cover statement claiming a \"weather plane\" had strayed off course after its pilot had \"difficulties with his oxygen equipment\". What CIA officials did not realize was that the plane crashed almost fully intact, and the Soviets recovered its equipment. Powers was interrogated extensively by the KGB for months before he made a confession and a public apology for his part in espionage.\n\nPowers tried to limit the information he shared with the KGB to that which could be determined from the remains of his plane's wreckage. He was hampered by information appearing in the western press. A KGB major stated \"there's no reason for you to withhold information. We'll find it out anyway. Your press will give it to us.\" However, he limited his divulging of CIA contacts to one individual, with a pseudonym of \"Collins\". At the same time, he repeatedly stated the maximum altitude for the U-2 was , significantly lower than its actual flight ceiling.\n\nThe incident set back talks between Khrushchev and Eisenhower. Powers's interrogations ended on June 30, and his solitary confinement ended on July 9. On August 17, 1960, his trial began for espionage before the military division of the Supreme Court of the USSR. Lieutenant General Borisoglebsky, Major General Vorobyev, and Major General Zakharov presided. Roman Rudenko acted as prosecutor in his capacity of Procurator General of the Soviet Union. Mikhail I. Grinev served as Powers's defense counsel. In attendance were his parents and sister, and his wife Barbara and her mother. His father brought along his attorney Carl McAfee, while the CIA provided two additional attorneys.\n\nOn August 19, 1960, Powers was convicted of espionage, \"a grave crime covered by Article 2 of the Soviet Union's law 'On Criminality Responsibility for State Crimes'\". His sentence consisted of 10 years' confinement, three of which were to be in a prison, with the remainder in a labor camp. The US Embassy \"News Bulletin\" stated, according to Powers, \"as far as the government was concerned, I had acted in accordance with the instructions given me and would receive my full salary while imprisoned\".\n\nHe was held in Vladimir Central Prison, about east of Moscow, in building number 2 from September 9, 1960 until February 8, 1962. His cellmate was Zigurd Kruminsh (Zigurds Krūmiņš), a Latvian political prisoner. Powers kept a diary and a journal while confined. Additionally he took up carpet weaving from his cellmate to pass the time. He could send and receive a limited number of letters from his family. The prison now contains a small museum with an exhibit on Powers, who allegedly developed a good rapport with Russian prisoners there. Some pieces of the plane and Powers's uniform are on display at the Monino Airbase museum near Moscow.\n\nOn February 10, 1962, Powers was exchanged, along with U.S. student Frederic Pryor, in a well-publicized spy swap at the Glienicke Bridge in Berlin. The exchange was for Soviet KGB Colonel Vilyam Fisher, known as \"Rudolf Abel\", who had been caught by the FBI and tried and jailed for espionage. Powers credited his father with the swap idea. When released, Powers's total time in captivity was 1 year, 9 months, and 10 days.\n\nIn 2010, CIA documents were released indicating that U.S. officials did not believe Powers's account of the incident at the time, because it was contradicted by a classified National Security Agency (NSA) report which alleged that the U-2 had descended from before changing course and disappearing from radar. However, newly released declassified CIA documents confirm the accuracy of Powers's report. The NSA report remains classified.\n\nPowers initially received a cold reception on his return home. He was criticized for not activating his aircraft's self-destruct charge to destroy the camera, photographic film, and related classified parts. He was also criticized for not using a CIA-issued \"suicide pill\" to kill himself (a coin with shellfish toxin embedded in its grooves, revealed during CIA testimony to the Church Committee in 1975).\n\nHe was debriefed extensively by the CIA, Lockheed Corporation, and the Air Force, after which a statement was issued by CIA director John McCone that \"Mr. Powers lived up to the terms of his employment and instructions in connection with his mission and in his obligations as an American.\" On March 6, 1962, he appeared before a Senate Armed Services Select Committee hearing chaired by Senator Richard Russell, Jr. which included Senators Prescott Bush, Leverett Saltonstall, Robert Byrd, Margaret Chase Smith, John Stennis, Strom Thurmond, and Barry Goldwater. During the hearing, Senator Saltonstall stated, \"I commend you as a courageous, fine young American citizen who lived up to your instructions and who did the best you could under very difficult circumstances.\" Senator Bush declared, \"I am satisfied he has conducted himself in exemplary fashion and in accordance with the highest traditions of service to one's country, and I congratulate him upon his conduct in captivity.\" Senator Goldwater sent him a handwritten note: \"You did a good job for your country.\"\n\nPowers and his wife Barbara separated in 1962 and divorced in January 1963. Powers stated that the reasons for the divorce included her infidelity and alcoholism, adding that she constantly threw tantrums and overdosed on pills shortly after his return. He started a relationship with Claudia Edwards \"Sue\" Downey, whom he had met while working briefly at CIA Headquarters. Downey had a child, Dee Rogers, from her previous marriage. They were married on October 26, 1963. Their son Francis Gary Powers II was born on June 5, 1965. The marriage proved to be a very happy one, and Sue worked hard to preserve her husband's legacy after his death.\n\nDuring a speech in March 1964, former CIA Director Allen Dulles said of Powers, \"He performed his duty in a very dangerous mission and he performed it well, and I think I know more about that than some of his detractors and critics know, and I am glad to say that to him tonight.\"\n\nPowers worked for Lockheed as a test pilot from 1962 to 1970, though the CIA paid his salary. In 1970, he wrote the book \"Operation Overflight\" with co-author Curt Gentry. Lockheed fired him, because \"the book's publication had ruffled some feathers at Langley.\" Powers became a helicopter traffic pilot reporter for KNBC News Channel 4.\n\nPowers was piloting a helicopter for KNBC Channel 4 over West Los Angeles on August 1, 1977 when the aircraft crashed, killing him and his cameraman George Spears. They had been recording video tape following brush fires in Santa Barbara County in the KNBC helicopter and were heading back from them.\n\nHis Bell 206 JetRanger helicopter ran out of fuel and crashed at the Sepulveda Dam recreational area in Encino, California, several miles short of its intended landing site at Burbank Airport. The National Transportation Safety Board report attributed the probable cause of the crash to pilot error. According to Powers's son, an aviation mechanic had repaired a faulty fuel gauge without informing Powers, who subsequently misread it.\n\nAt the last moment, he noticed children playing in the area and directed the helicopter elsewhere to avoid landing on them. He might have landed safely if not for the last-second deviation, which compromised his autorotative descent.\nPowers was survived by his wife, children Claudia Dee and Francis Gary Powers Jr., and five sisters. He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery as an Air Force veteran.\n\nPowers received the CIA's Intelligence Star in 1965 after his return from the Soviet Union. Powers was originally scheduled to receive it in 1963 along with other pilots involved in the CIA's U-2 program, but the award was postponed for political reasons. In 1970, Powers published his first—and only—book review, on a work about aerial reconnaissance, \"Unarmed and Unafraid\" by Glenn Infield, in the monthly magazine \"Business & Commercial Aviation\". \"The subject has great interest to me,\" he said, in submitting his review.\n\nIn 1998, newly declassified information revealed that Powers's mission had been a joint USAF/CIA operation. In 2000, on the 40th anniversary of the U-2 Incident, his family was presented with his posthumously awarded Prisoner of War Medal, Distinguished Flying Cross, and National Defense Service Medal. In addition, CIA Director George Tenet authorized Powers to posthumously receive the CIA's coveted Director's Medal for extreme fidelity and extraordinary courage in the line of duty.\n\nOn June 15, 2012, Powers was posthumously awarded the Silver Star medal for \"demonstrating 'exceptional loyalty' while enduring harsh interrogation in the Lubyanka Prison in Moscow for almost two years.\" Air Force Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz presented the decoration to Powers's grandchildren, Trey Powers, 9, and Lindsey Berry, 29, in a Pentagon ceremony.\n\nPowers's son, Francis Gary Powers Jr., founded the Cold War Museum in 1996. Affiliated with the Smithsonian Institution, it was essentially a traveling exhibit until it found a permanent home in 2011 on a former Army communications base outside Washington, D.C.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47102485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47102485", "title": "Global Conference on CyberSpace", "text": "Global Conference on CyberSpace\n\nThe Global Conference on Cyberspace (GCCS) are conferences held biennially since 2011 where governments, private sector and civil society gather to discuss and promote practical cooperation in cyberspace, to enhance cyber capacity building, and to discuss norms for responsible behavior in cyberspace.\n\nThe first conference held in November 2011 in London. There, a set of principles “for governing behavior in cyberspace” have been established after a discussion from 700 participants.\n\nThe second conference held on October 4-5th, 2012 in Budapest. The main subject and focus that has been discussed was the relationship between internet rights and internet security. Even though very few civil society organisations were invited to speak, the networking was valuable, and had more longer term impact than the Chair’s statement which represents the outcome of the event.\n\nThe third event held on 17–18 October 2013 in Seoul. The conference had grown to approximately 1,600 attendees with greater representation from countries in the global South. Arguably the most significant outcome of the London Process is the Seoul Framework for and Commitment to Open and Secure Cyberspace, which highlights the importance of universal internet access, emphasizes that the same rights that people have offline must also be protected online, and echoes a UN report that established that international law is applicable online and is essential to maintaining peace and stability and promoting an open, secure, peaceful and accessible ICT environment.\n\nThe fourth GCCS conference held at the World Forum from 16 to 17 April 2015 in The Hague.\n\nThe fifth GCCS conference held from 23 to 24 November 2017 in New Delhi, India.\nTheme of GCCS 2017 is “Cyber4All: A Secure and Inclusive Cyberspace for Sustainable Development”. However it could further be divided into following four sections: \nCyber4Growth – share ideas and insights to foster growth and development with growing importance of the cyber space to individuals, small businesses, large companies etc.\nCyber4DigitalInclusion\n–draw\nroad\nmap\nfor\ninclusive\nsociety by sharing best practices for digital identity, idea of\nopen and free Internet for all, digital technologies for\nenabling differently abled etc.\nCyber4Security –framework for comprehensive cyber.\nsecurity protocols for organisations and nations.\n\nCyber4Diplomacy –explore various facets of cyber security\nsuch\nas\ninterstate\ncooperation\nfor\npreventing\nCyber\nWarfare and Cyber Diplomacy for Global Order.\n"}
{"id": "19358251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19358251", "title": "Great Recession in Russia", "text": "Great Recession in Russia\n\nThe Great Recession in Russia was a crisis during 2008–2009 in the Russian financial markets as well as an economic recession that was compounded by political fears after the war with Georgia and by the plummeting price of Urals heavy crude oil, which lost more than 70% of its value since its record peak of US$147 on 4 July 2008 before rebounding moderately in 2009. According to the World Bank, Russia’s strong short-term macroeconomic fundamentals made it better prepared than many emerging economies to deal with the crisis, but its underlying structural weaknesses and high dependence on the price of a single commodity made its impact more pronounced than would otherwise be the case.\n\nIn late 2008 during the onset of the crisis, Russian markets plummeted and more than $1 trillion had been wiped off the value of Russia's shares, although Russian stocks rebounded in 2009 becoming the world’s best performers, with the MICEX Index having more than doubled in value and regaining half its 2008 losses.\n\nAs the crisis progressed, Reuters and the Financial Times speculated that the crisis would be used to increase the Kremlin's control over key strategic assets in a reverse of the \"loans for shares\" sales of the 1990s, when the state sold off major assets to the oligarchs in return for loans. In contrast to this earlier speculation, in September 2009 the Russian government announced plans to sell state energy and transport holdings in order to help plug the budget deficit and to help improve the nation's aging infrastructure. The state earmarked about 5,500 enterprises for divestment and plans to sell shares in companies that are already publicly traded, including Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer.\n\nFrom July 2008 – January 2009, Russia's foreign exchange reserves (FXR) fell by $210 billion from their peak to $386 billion as the central bank adopted a policy of gradual devaluation to combat the sharp devaluation of the ruble. The ruble weakened 35% against the dollar from the onset of the crisis in August to January 2009. As the ruble stabilized in January the reserves began to steadily grow again throughout 2009, reaching a year-long high of $452 billion by year's-end.\n\nRussia's economy emerged from recession in the third quarter of 2009 after two quarters of record negative growth. GDP contracted by 7.9% for the whole of 2009, slightly less than the economic ministry's prediction of 8.5%. Experts expect Russia's economy will grow modestly in 2010, with estimates ranging from 3.1% by the Russian economic ministry to 2.5%, 3.6% and 4.9% by the World Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF), and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) respectively.\n\nRussia is a major exporter of commodities such as oil and metals, so its economy had been hit hard by the decline in the price of many commodities. The Russian stock market declined significantly. Foreign investors had pulled billions of dollars out of Russia on concerns over escalating geopolitical tensions with the West following the military conflict between Georgia and Russia, as well as concerns about state interference in the economy. Those concerns were underscored in July by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's criticism of steel company Mechel collapsing the company's stock. By September 2008, the RTS stock index plunged almost 54%, making it one of the worst performing markets in the world. Russian involvement in the US subprime mortgage crisis contributed to the volatility in Russia's financial system. The Russian Central Bank owned US$100 Billion of mortgage-backed securities of the two American mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that were taken over by the US government. This investment appeared to be bound for write-off.\n\nMany analysts, including Andrei Illarionov, former economic policy adviser to then-President Vladimir Putin, claim that in Russia the crisis in the stock market was deepened dramatically by internal factors, including concerns over state interference in the economy fueled in June by Putin's criticism of Mechel and the conflict over TNK-BP, lack of transparency in banking and political risks associated with escalating geopolitical tensions following the 2008 South Ossetia war in August. Swedish Foreign minister Carl Bildt said on 17 September that the current Russian financial crisis is \"obviously more worrying\" than the ongoing subprime mortgage crisis in view of the political development in Russia. Furthermore, Russia's overt reliance on the oil and natural gas sector made it particularly vulnerable.\n\nAccording to the \"Wall Street Journal\" and Gazeta.ru, as the Russian market declined in September, a conspiracy theory circulated within Russian leadership that the U.S. government had incited American investors to withdraw their capital from Russia, in punishment for the war in Georgia.\n\nOn 24 July 2008, Mechel's stock plunged by almost 38 percent after Russia's Prime Minister Vladimir Putin criticized its CEO Igor Zyuzin, and accused the company of selling resources to Russia at higher prices than those charged to foreign countries. The comments, which raised fears of another attack similar to that made on Yukos in 2004, contrasted sharply with previous efforts by President Dmitry Medvedev to improve Russia's reputation as an investor-friendly country. On the following day, Mechel issued a contrite statement promising full cooperation with federal authorities, while share values rebounded by nearly 15 percent. 28 July presidential aide Arkady Dvorkovich then sought to restore calm, declaring that all parties would \"act in a civilized way,\" and confirming that Mechel was cooperating with antitrust authorities. Just hours later, however, Putin announced that Mechel had been avoiding taxes, by using foreign subsidiaries to sell its products internationally. His renewed attack caused share prices to tumble once more—this time by almost 33 percent.\n\nOn 16 September Russia's most liquid stock exchange MICEX and the dollar-denominated RTS were suspended trade for one hour after the worst one-day fall in 10 years as Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin reassured markets there was no \"systemic\" crisis. Next day, trading was suspended for the second day in succession on Russia's two main stock exchanges (MICEX and RTS) after shares fell dramatically, forcing the Federal Financial Markets Service to intervene. The simultaneous collapse of money markets prompted reaction from the government and the Central Bank, while Finance Minister Alexey Kudrin sought assurances from U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson that the U.S. did not play politics with Russia in the crisis.\n\nThe crisis continued on 18 September, as trading was suspended for the third day in succession on Russia's two main stock exchanges amidst fear of financial collapse. News agencies are quoting Russia's finance minister Alexei Kudrin as saying trading on Russian exchanges will not resume until 19 September 2008. Officials at MICEX stock exchange describe conditions in the Russian markets as \"extraordinary\" Deputy Finance Minister Pyotr Kazakevich asserted that \"Russia is facing its worst stock market decline in a decade mainly because of a confidence crisis rather than liquidity problems\".\n\nOn 6 October the MICEX and RTS crashed by 18.6% and 19.1% respectively. The losses forced the Federal Financial Markets Service to suspend the stocks three times. The decreases in other world markets on that day were considerable, but less dramatic than in Russia. Trading on both exchanges was suspended on the next day; Russian companies have augmented in price at London LSE. On 8 October the MICEX and RTS plunged 14.4% and 11.3% respectively, trading on the markets was halted until 10 October, respectively. However, on 9 October MICEX trading resumed ahead of schedule, and the stock market rose 14.7%. On the next day the regulator, wary of crises in American and Asian markets, decided not to open trading at all.\n\nThe crisis in money markets was imminent since spring, when Central Bank of Russia warned the public of a gradual contraction in bank lending due to unfolding world liquidity crisis. However, the regulator preferred to combat inflation, raising the refinancing rate and bank reserve contributions. 1 September hike in reserve rate alone withdrew nearly 100 billion roubles from the money market. The raise coincided with a seasonal peak in tax payments and left the banking system in a worse state of liquidity than that of August 1998. A subsequent drop in rouble-to-dollar exchange rate and dollar-denominated prices of Russian corporate securities forced investors to crowd out, worsening the positive feedback loop. The interbank money market that traditionally relied on Russian corporate stock as a collateral for the repurchase agreements, immediately imploded in what was called \"a crisis of trust\" or even \"elimination of trust\": when the borrowers defaulted on loans, leaving lenders with impaired collateral, other banks stopped lending as a precaution.\n\nMoney market crunch passed its first lowest mark 15–17 September. 17 September the government lent the country's three biggest banks, Sberbank, VTB Bank and Gazprombank, 1.13 trillion rubles (US$44 billion) for at least three months to boost liquidity; the Central Bank lowered the reserve requirement. This was followed 24 September by Central Bank loans to keep the current accounts afloat and prevent a bank run. The regulators also raised the cap for deposit insurance from 400 to 700 thousand roubles (equivalent to 25 thousand dollars). These actions served their short-term purpose but failed to revitalize the money market: no bank was willing to lend for longer than overnight.\n\n17 November MosPrime interbank interest rate on rouble loans reached a record high of 22.67%, indicating another shortage of liquid funds as the bank clients transferred funds overseas or paid taxes due. Rates on six-month US dollar forward contracts fluctuated at 40–60%, short-term currency swaps averaged around 80% as the banks anticipated further drop in exchange rates.\n\nOn 15 September the KIT Finance brokerage failed to pay off its debt, signalling problems in Russia's financial sector. On 8 October the Russian Railways and Alrosa agreed to acquire a 90% stake in KIT Finance.\n\nIn the beginning of October Sergei Ignatyev, chairman of the Central Bank, announced imminent bankruptcy of 50 to 70 banks. Actually, in late August – late November the regulator has shut down only nine banks. More smaller banks showing signs of distress are allowed to operate, like the Moscow Mortgage Bank that defaulted on returning individual deposits in November. Regional banks, heavily dependent on individual deposits, were in particular hit. A bank run registered in Bashkortostan in November caused local crises. Three of the four worst affected banks were promised rescue by their shareholders or third-party buyers; fate of the fourth one is yet to be decided.\n\nOn 18 September, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev ordered ministers to inject 500 billion roubles of funds from the state budget into the markets and pledged that the financial system would receive \"all necessary support\". On 7 October, Medvedev announced an additional $36 billion for banks on top of the $150 billion approved in September.\n\nOn 29 September, Vladimir Putin announced a government policy aimed at refinancing Russian corporations that previously relied on foreign loans. Government authorized Vnesheconombank as its principal agent in distributing state loans to these corporations, amounting initially up to 50 billion US dollars, or 8% of Russia's foreign currency assets. At the same time Putin recommended the Central Bank to extend unsecured stabilization loans to Russian banks, which was duly implemented. The policy was immediately dubbed \"soft re-nationalisation\" and criticized for selective picking of \"eligible\" borrowers. The 50 billion installment covers only the current portion of 477 billion US dollars owed by Russian corporations to foreign lenders; total assets of the government and the Central Bank combined are estimated at 550 billion US dollars.\n\nOn 23 October, Standard & Poor's changed the long-term outlook on the sovereign credit ratings of Russia from stable to negative, warning of the costs of bailing out troubled banks and a rising risk of a budget deficit in 2009. It also lowered Russia's Transfer and Convertibility (T&C) assessment to BBB+ from A-. At the same time, the 'BBB+' long-term foreign currency, the 'A-' long-term local currency ratings and the short-term ratings of A-2 were affirmed.\n\nBy 13 November, Russian government spending to quench the recession reached 222 billion US dollars, or 13.9% of its GDP; in November the state was spending its reserves at an average 22 billion dollars a week.\n\nOn 8 December 2008, Standard & Poor's additionally lowered Russia's foreign currency credit ratings to BBB (long term) and A-3. It also lowered Russia's Transfer and Convertibility (T&C) assessment to BBB and the long-term local currency assessment to BBB+. On the other hand, the short-term credit rating in local currency was left intact as A-2. The lowering of credit ratings was caused by the sharp decline of reserves and investment flow. Standard & Poor's also launched a downward revision of Russian municipal and corporate bond ratings.\n\n20 November Vladimir Putin announced government package of tax reforms. Corporate profit tax rate (24% in 2008) is to be reduced to 20%. Profit tax base will decrease for companies investing in capital assets as the immediately recoverable depreciation allowance is raised from 10% to 30% of the asset cost. There will be no change in value added tax rates (maximum 18%) in 2009, but the government considered changing VAT accrual rules in favor of the taxpayers. Minister of finance Alexey Kudrin, who resisted tax breaks until September, concurred with Putin's proposal, estimating that they will save the businesses around 500 billion roubles annually.\n\nEarlier in November, Kudrin announced that the state has accepted the fact of a long-term drop in oil prices and that the existing state budget plans will hold unchanged if the oil prices stabilize on 50 dollars per barrel mark. Even with tax breaks effective, Kudrin estimated that the 2009 state budget will break even or, in worst case, bear no more than 1% deficit. The deficit will be covered by Stabilisation Fund, without resorting to borrowing.\n\nIn December the government lifted import tariffs on industrial equipment imported by metallurgy, construction, forestry and textile industry, at the same time enforcing increased tariffs on imported cars.\n\nOn 15 April 2009, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said the federal budget will show a deficit of 7.4% of GDP in 2009. In comparison, the US expects a budget deficit of 13.5% of GDP, Britain 9.3%, and France 6.6%. According to Kudrin forecast for the 2010 deficit is 5%. Kudrin warned, that Russia must cut down its budget deficit before 2011. \"Our vulnerability to the crisis is higher than that of the countries with more diversified economies. This is why 2009 should be a unique year. We must not have a comparable budget deficit in subsequent years. We must work to reduce it to 3% in 2011,\" he said.\n\nOn 25 May 2009, President Dmitry Medvedev said the budget deficit in 2009 will be \"at least 7%\" of GDP.\n\nFederal Financial Monitoring Service of Russia, the agency in charge of domestic stock markets and corporate governance, pressed the corporations to reveal their true owners and signed an agreement with the government of Cyprus (20 November) that may enable inter-government disclosure of ownership records. Cyprus is, nominally, the number one investor in Russia; 99% of RTS stock trades are arranged between foreign shareholders.\n\nRussia has agreed to co-finance International Monetary Fund emergency loans to other states, initially contributing one billion US dollar. Earlier, in October, Russian ambassador to Iceland announces that Iceland will receive a €4 billion loan from Russia to mitigate the 2008–2012 Icelandic financial crisis. The loan will be given across three or four years, and the interest rates will be 30 to 50 points above LIBOR. Prime minister Geir Haarde had been investigating the possibility of a loan provided by Russia since the mid-summer. Iceland's Central bank Governor Davíð Oddsson later clarified that the loan was still being negotiated.\n\nAt the end of November 2008, The Russian economy as a whole was not in a state of recession. The government forecast for 2009 stood at a 6.7% annual growth rate while a November 2008 World Bank report projected 3% growth for 2009, However, a revised projection issued 30 March 2009 by the World Bank projects a 4.5% decrease for 2009 with unemployment projected to rise to 12% by the end of 2009. The World Bank report expressed concern about the condition of the poor and recommended increases in social support payments such as unemployment payments and child support payments. The report projected a slight rise in the average price of oil during 2010, up to $53 a barrel from the projected average of $45 for 2009.\n\nIn the middle of December 2008 Russian officials confirmed that possibility of a recession was inevitable. \"Russia is headed for a recession\", the country's deputy economy minister, Andrei Klepach, has said. Asked whether Russia would have a recession, he said: \"It's started already. I'm afraid it will not be over in the next two quarters. ... A major drop began in October and there will also be drops in November–December,\" he said, according to official reports. Recessions are normally declared after two quarters of negative growth. He also said that full-year economic growth for 2008 would be lower than the 6.8% previously forecast.\n\nRussian steel industry is dependent on foreign markets and domestic construction and automobile industries. Crisis in the industry was first publicly reported in the end of September – early October. Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works laid off 3,000 workers (10% of its Urals staff) and reduced output by 15% on 7 October, another layoff of 1,300 was announced in early November. Severstal reduced domestic production by 25%; its US and Italian production dropped by 30%. Evraz Group, employer of 40 thousands workers in Kemerovo Oblast, was reported negotiating layoffs with the unions and regional government since 30 October. The company, specializing in construction-grade rolled steel, was inherently in worse position than other Russian steel mills. 13 November Evraz announced that, instead of layoffs, it will decrease workers' wages by a third. Some of Evraz facilities were converted to a four-day working week; the company reduced output to an estimated 50–60% of its capacity.\n\nOn 18 November Goskomstat insider reported an unprecedented drop in industrial prices – minus 6.6% monthly, following a 0.8% drop in September (the agency itself delayed its regular monthly report). Most of the losses concentrate in raw material industries; automobile and tool-making industries dropped only 0.4%. In two months, gasoline and diesel oil wholesale prices dropped by 12.8% and 16.5%. The worst price fall hit the steel industry: pig iron and ferric alloys dropped 21.7% in October after an 8.9% drop in September. Prices on aluminum and nickel are down to break-even point. The decline is sufficient to indicate a recession.\n\nIn November the industry relied on government funds distributed through Vneshtorgbank loans. VTB issued a 10 billion roubles emergency loan to Evraz to finance its current tax payments; a similar 5 billion loan was issued to OAO TMK. Magnitka was reported \"in the line\" for VTB financing. The industry continued to implode, and on 14 and 18 November Novolipetsk Steel shut down two of its five blast furnaces, reducing its pig iron capacity by 2.5 million metric tons, or 27%. On the same day Novolipetsk Steel denied steel shipments to GAZ due to automobile maker's default on payments.\n\nIn June 2008 The Economist described \"Russia's booming car market\" as a place where \"you just need someone to count the money\". In November the market slowed to its lowest since January 2007. AC Nielsen linked the market drop to a collapse in auto loan programs and general uncertainty among consumers, and predicted that unless auto loans recover, the market will slide back into the 1990s. The government supported domestic auto makers by an increase in tariffs on imports, leading to an expected 7.5–8% price increase for imported cars.\n\nGAZ and KAMAZ were the first auto makers to declare production cuts in September–October 2008. GAZ truck production has decreased by 23.4% in September 2008; in October the company announced week-long shutdowns of the main assembly line to meet decrease in demand for its most successful line, the GAZelle truck. KAMAZ, the target of acquisition by Daimler AG since July, has been reporting financial difficulties since September. In October KAMAZ reduced working hours by a third, from six-day to four-day working week. KAMAZ requested a 15 billion rouble state-backed loan and took a private loan from Citigroup at 9% over prime rate; in December Daimler AG acquired the first 10% in KAMAZ stock, citing \"perfect storm\" as a good time acquisition.\n\nAvtoVAZ disclosed emergency measures on 16 October, when Igor Sechin held an industry-wide anti-crisis brainstorming session in Togliatti. AvtoVAZ reported a stockpile of 100 thousands unsold cars (two months' output). The company requested government assistance of 1 billion US Dollars arranged through a Vneshtorgbank loan. Unlike other major borrowers who used VTB loans to substitute foreign capital, AvtoVAZ loan was intended solely to pay current expenses.\n\nAvtoFramos, Moscow-based manufacturer of Renault Logan, has confirmed that instead of a planned weekly New Year holiday, the plant will stop for a month, 12 December 2008 to 12 January 2009. Trade unions asserted that AvroFramos has practiced short-time stoppages in November; plant administration refuted these statements. According to the unions, unsold stock reached 8 thousand cars, a month's output of the plant.\n\nAmtel-Vredestein has closed two of its tire plants due to cash flow problems. On 2 December media announced closure of Bor Glass Works, the principal supplier of auto glass, but the news was soon refuted as false by the plant administration.\n\nIn the first half of 2008 Russian construction industry, apparently immune of the global financial squeeze, grew by 22% in nominal money compared to 2007. In September–October Mirax Group, Sistema Hals, ST Group and other real estate developers announced freezing of future projects and intention to dispose of ongoing projects in early stages, citing an unacceptable increase in interest rates and uncertain demand. According to a Mirax executive, \"our clients are panicking, and that is affecting our business\", \"... bank financing for developers has practically ceased\". Developers and builders of a lesser scale are facing a \"struggle to survive\", especially in regional cities. In October 2008 Orenburg construction executive described regional business prospects as \"very bad\", notably the fact that \"there is no single bank for today which grants mortgage loans... Construction industry will not survive under such terms.\"\n\n27 October Vladimir Putin urged the government agencies to increase state purchases of road and housing construction services, arguing that the state must capitalize on the decrease in prices of raw materials. The state allocated 50 billion roubles to buy ready-to-occupy urban housing from cash-strapped developers. Putin emphasized that the new contracts must be struck on new, decreased, price terms – estimated to be 20–30% cheaper than in spring. Strabag executive estimated that in 2009 construction costs will decrease a further 30%. In November Moscow city government has been successfully pressing local developers for a 25% discount against October auction prices; the only developer who attempted to sue the city for a breach of contract withdrew their lawsuit and accepted the government terms. City government also pulled out of the 118-floor Russia Tower project, which was immediately suspended by its developer, citing \"credit crunch\".\n\nIn November, the volume of Russian paper exports to China decreased by 30–40%, coupled with a 30% drop in prices. Exports to Western Europe fare marginally better, with an estimated 25–40% drop in production volumes. Russia's largest producer of industrial paper bags, Segezh Paper Mill (controlled by the Bank of Moscow and the City of Moscow), declared a ten-day shutdown on 24 November. UPM-Kymmene Oyj anticipates at least a 30–40% decrease in output compared to 2008. In June 2010, President Dmitry Medvedev visited Silicon Valley in San Jose, California in order to cultivate ideas of how to develop Russia as a major research center. Skolkovo, a mid-sized city near Moscow, is the proposed location for this Russian Silicon Valley, and will have its own tax structure. Yet, Medvedev has been criticized by opposition politicians for deflecting attention away from the struggling economy and corruption.\n\nIn June–August 2008 the fleet of KrasAir, a Krasnoyarsk-based airline with a controlling state interest, was grounded by the fuel suppliers' refusal to extend credit to the company that defaulted on payments. Other members of AiRUnion consortium, notably Dalavia, also folded in August. Thousands of passengers were stranded in airports; flight delays and cancellations became a national agenda. Government action focused on setting the cap on jet fuel prices and restructuring its assets into a new company managed by Rostechnologii, a newly formed state conglomerate. Ministry of Transportation distributed the licenses to fly former KrasAir routes to other companies. KrasAir also defaulted on payments to its staff, and on 27 October a strike action, coupled with fuel suppliers' denial of service, finally ruined the airline. Dalavia lost its license earlier in October. The collapse of KrasAir also threatened Sky Express, Russia's first low cost carrier co-owned by the EBRD and former manager of KrasAir. 22 October the assets of bankrupt KrasAir, Domodedovo Airlines, Samara Airlines and Atlant-Soyuz Airlines were consolidated in a new company, Rosavia, co-financed by the City of Moscow and Rostekhnologii. Rossiya, Orenair, Kavminvodyavia, Vladivostok Air, Dalavia and Saravia were originally planned to join this proposed airline holding company, too, which would have made Rosavia the largest Russian airline by fleet size. Following a 20 percent drop of domestic passenger numbers in Russia per month, the federal government scrapped all plans concerning the new airline on 5 March 2009\n\nRussia had a high grain harvest in 2008, but so it was elsewhere in the world, bringing the prices down. To support the trade, Dmitry Medvedev authorized a state export subsidy of 40 US dollars per metric ton. This, according to the minister of agriculture, is sufficient to maintain exports at 20–25 million metric tons. The food industry is, however, locked between high costs of farm produce and tight price and credit terms dictated by retail chains. Food industry executives anticipate that the chains will eventually lose part of their clients to street markets, as the suppliers are forced to develop this independent sales channel.\n\nDomestic retail chains, heavily leveraged, were experiencing liquidity crisis at least since April 2008. The first chain to go bankrupt in May 2008, Grossmart (190 stores in Moscow region), had a particularly high debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 6 to 1. Arbat Prestige, subject to government attacks since 2007, defaulted on its bonds in June. In November 2008 nine leading food retail chains (out of nearly 300) received access to government-backed financing. Nevertheless, retailers are pressing food suppliers for longer credit terms or bigger cash discounts, demanding up to 50% price cut for cash payment. Suppliers, in a mirror move, raised \"regular\" credit prices by 20–60%. Rather than submit to the chains' demands, they simply refuse to sell; visible depletion of stocks has affected only a few affected chains.\n\nA proprietary Ernst & Young survey of 113 clients that leaked into Russian press in November summarized their losses at 8% of managerial and 6% of low-level jobs by end of October. All companies in the survey practiced some sort of reducing labor costs. One company in four practiced unpaid \"vacations\"; 8% of clients settled for reduced working hours. Federal Migratory Service announced in November that 1123 Russian companies reported upcoming layoffs of 45 thousand.\n\nMost layoffs were reported in metallurgy and financial services: 20% in Uralsib, 1000 in Vneshtorgbank's VTB24 retail division. 1 December Vedomosti reported upcoming 40% cuts in MDM Bank and 80% in IFD Kapital. Sberbank endorsed a long-term program to reduce headcount by 25% in 2014. In telecommunications, Sitronics laid off up to 10% in all business units; in audit services, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu reduced number of partners in its Russian division by 17 out of 180. Vedomosti has set up a private \"layoff newsreel\" syndicating independent reports of job cuts, yet as at 7 December 2008, there are no reliable nationwide statistics on white-collar unemployment, which usually escapes official unemployment record.\n\nBy late November, Kremlin First Deputy Chief of Staff, Vladislav Surkov, was warning that the middle classes should be defended from poverty during the crisis. He called for swift measures to protect the middle class from layoffs and to support consumption. \"If the 1980s were the times of the intellectuals and the 1990s were the times of the oligarchs then the 00s can be seen as the epoch of the middle classes,' Surkov said in a speech published on the Web site of the ruling United Russia party ... The main task of the state during the slump must become the preservation of the middle class, the defence of the middle class from the waves of poverty and confusion that are coming from the West,\" he said.\n\nAccording to official statements released 9 December, rate of unemployment growth peaked in the middle of November and slowed down in subsequent weeks. In the week ending 3 December overall unemployment grew by 1.6% to 1.315 million people, following a 2.3% increase in the preceding week. The state also reported an increase in unpaid vacations and reduced working week employees to 149.3 thousands. The number increased by 84% in a single week ending 3 December. The trade unions anticipate that official unemployment will peak at around 2 million people in 2009, when hidden forms of unemployment become visible to statisticians. Yet on 12 December Putin announced completely different unemployment numbers – 4.6 million in October.\n\nIn February 2009 the unemployment rate peaked at a seven-year high of 9.4%, then began to steadily decline, falling to 7.7% as of October.\n\nOfficial consumer price inflation in January–August 2008 reached 14.8%. By the end of November, food price inflation for an 11-month period reached 15.3%. Overall price inflation, taking into account consumer and industrial prices, reached 12.5% compared to 10.6% for the same period of 2007. Decline in short-term inflation was credited to a reduction in monetary supply. Inflation slowed through 2009 with a year on year rate of 9.1% as of November, down from 13.8% a year earlier.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29070731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29070731", "title": "Half Moon Bay Art and Pumpkin Festival", "text": "Half Moon Bay Art and Pumpkin Festival\n\nThe Half Moon Bay Art and Pumpkin Festival is an annual festival held in the coastside community of Half Moon Bay, California for one weekend during pumpkin harvest season. It is one of the oldest and largest local festivals in California. Proceeds go to local civic causes and to the beautification of the downtown area of Half Moon Bay.\nThere is no admission charge for the event.\n\nThe annual event is held in October. Columbus Day Monday is the Safeway World Champion Pumpkin Weigh-in contest. The Half Moon Bay Art and Pumpkin Festival is a two-day event held the following Saturday and Sunday each year.\nFestival hours are from 9 AM to 5 PM both Saturday and Sunday.\n\nThe festival is located in downtown Half Moon Bay on Main Street between Miramontes and Spruce Streets. \nThe Great Pumpkin Parade is held at Noon on Saturday and runs East along Miramontes, North on Main St, and West on Mill Street.\nThere are two Music Stages, one at the South entrance and one located next to the Food Court in the IDES grounds. A Family Stage is located at 620 Main Street.\nThe associated Safeway World Championship Pumpkin Weigh-In is located on the IDES Grounds at 735 Main Street on Columbus Day, the Monday prior to the festival.\n\nThe Half Moon Bay Art and Pumpkin Festival began in 1971 with the formation of the Main Street Beautification Committee. The group was formed to raise funds for the revitalization of Main Street, which was beginning to show signs of decay. With an abundance of pumpkin patches in the area, the committee organized an old-fashioned harvest-style pumpkin festival.\nThe first festival attracted 30,000 people. That year only one non-profit organization offered food for sale. The festival now includes dozens of local non-profit groups operating food and game booths, selling everything from pumpkin pie to linguisa sandwiches. \nProceeds go to various civic and local causes and have included the construction of two parks, multiple scholarship funds, the installation of old-fashioned downtown street lights, the underground wiring of Main Street, and the renovation of City Hall.\n\n• The Safeway World Championship Pumpkin Weigh-Off attracts growers from around the United States. The weigh-off is held the Monday prior to the festival and the winners are on display during the festival weekend. In 2009, Don Young of Iowa won the event with a 1,659 lb Atlantic Giant pumpkin taking home $9,948 in prize money. \n• Harvest inspired Arts and Crafts are represented by 250 artist and craftmakers. Original works are available in glass, ceramics, metals, fiber, leather, wood, jewelry and fine art. \n• Food is a big item at the festival. Many food offerings include pumpkin such as pie, pancakes, bread, cheesecake, sausages, and ice cream. Local coastal favorites include Brussels sprouts, artichoke hearts, and Portuguese linguisa sandwiches. All food is provided by community non-profit groups. \n• The Great Pumpkin Parade features the weigh-off champion pumpkin, marching bands, classic cars, and costumed children of all ages. \n• Continuous entertainment is located on three stages throughout the festival. A variety of music is available from Country, to Blues, to Reggae. \n• Family entertainment includes a costume contest, pumpkin carving, games, and a pie eating contest. \n• Giant pumpkin carving is provided by Farmer Mike, a professional pumpkin carver that turns giant pumpkins (up to a thousand pounds) into faces and reliefs. Farmer Mike has carved at the event for 25 years. \n• Local wine and microbrews offer wine and beer by the glass. \n• Other attractions include a Sunday Pumpkin Run/Walk, a talent show, a pancake breakfast, giant pumpkin photos, a poster contest exhibit, and a haunted house.\n\nThe popular event attracts more than 200,000 people to this rural community. Major access from the greater San Francisco Bay Area is from Highway 92 to the east. North/South access from San Francisco or Santa Cruz is available using coastal Highway 1. The festival, combined with multiple pumpkin patches surrounding the town, generate severe traffic congestion each year. Parking is limited to side streets or paid parking in lots sponsored by local organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "5114983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5114983", "title": "Heaven Watch the Philippines", "text": "Heaven Watch the Philippines\n\nHeaven Watch the Philippines is a popular song by Irving Berlin, written in 1946.\n\nIt was written as a tribute to Filipino resistance during the Japanese occupation in World War II. During the war, Japanese troops in the Philippines attempted to popularize self-glorifying songs such as \"Chichi Yo Anata Wa Tsuyokatta\" (\"Father, You Were Brave\" in English). Locals resisted these efforts, preferring instead to sing \"God Bless the Philippines\" to the tune of Berlin's \"God Bless America\" as a show of national pride.\n\nBerlin himself gave the first performance of \"Heaven Watch the Philippines\" in Tolosa, Leyte in 1946, in front of an audience that included Sergio Osmeña and Carlos P. Romulo.\n\nBerlin was touring U.S. military bases with a stage production of \"This Is the Army\", in 1945. During a stop in the Philippines, he heard children in Leyte singing the song \"God Bless America\" (which he had written in 1918 and had revised in 1938) with the lyric \"God Bless the Philippines\". Touched by that and feeling that they might like a song of their own, he composed \"Heaven Watch the Philippines\", trying to combine the spiritual quality of \"God Bless America\" with their feeling for America and desire to be free. He taught the song to school children in Leyte and sang the song in the finale of the show when \"This Is the Army\" opened in Leyte. Berlin had donated the \"God Bless America\" royalties to the Boy Scouts of America, and he presented the rights to \"Heaven Watch the Philippines\" to the Commonwealth of the Philippines with the instruction that if they ever sold the song in the Philippines for profit, the proceeds were to be given to the Boy and Girl Scouts of the Philippines.\n\nIn a 1987 interview with Playboy, Imelda Marcos falsely claimed that Berlin had written \"Heaven Watch the Philippines\" specifically for her. When asked about her claim, the 99-year-old Berlin denied it outright.\n"}
{"id": "3229312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3229312", "title": "Jujuy Exodus", "text": "Jujuy Exodus\n\nThe Jujuy Exodus (in Spanish, Éxodo Jujeño) was an episode of the Argentine War of Independence. It was a massive forced displacement of people from the Jujuy Province, by orders of General Manuel Belgrano, conducted by his patriot forces that were battling a Royalist army. The population was compelled to leave under the threat of execution.\n\nDuring the early 1812 Manuel Belgrano had created the cockade and Flag of Argentina near the city of Rosario, and then received order to move to the north. He would take command of the Army of the North, based in the city of San Salvador de Jujuy. The situation was not favourable: a short time before Juan José Castelli had led the First Alto Perú campaign and, despite an initial advantage and a brief time ruling the Upper Peru, faced a decisive defeat during the Battle of Huaqui. The surviving patriots and remains of the Army had retreated to the south, to Jujuy. They were lacking men, weapons and money, and had to stop a victorious army, better armed and four times bigger. \n\nThe loyalists, led by General Pío Tristán, were advancing south with 3,000 troops from today's Bolivia, into the northwest of Argentina (through Humahuaca). The revolutionaries were outnumbered 2 to 1, demoralized, badly armed, far from the assistance of the central government, and facing an outbreak of malaria without medication. In addition, many of the locals, especially of the higher classes, resented the arrival of forces from Buenos Aires and were ready to defect.\n\nBelgrano, faced with the prospect of total defeat and territorial loss, ordered all people to pack their necessities, including food and furniture, and follow him, in carriages or on foot, together with whatever cattle and beasts of burden could endure the journey. The rest (houses, crops, food stocks, and also any objects made of iron) was to be burned, so as to deprive the loyalists of resources, following a strict scorched earth policy. On 29 July 1812 Belgrano asked the people of Jujuy to \"show their heroism\" and join the march of the army under his command \"if, as you assure, you want to be free\". The punishment for ignoring the order was execution and the destruction of the defector's properties. Belgrano labored to win the support of the populace, and later reported that most of the people had willingly followed him without the need of force.\n\nThe exodus started on 23 August and gathered people from Jujuy and Salta; people travelled south about 250 km, finally arriving at the banks of the Pasaje River, in the province of Tucumán, on the early hours of 29 August.\n\nThe Exodus is commemorated in Jujuy by traditionalist groups with an Evocative March, every 22 August since 1955. The Jujuy Province is declared honorific capital of Argentina each 23 August since 2002, by national law 25.644.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17998769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17998769", "title": "List of John McCain 2008 presidential campaign staff members", "text": "List of John McCain 2008 presidential campaign staff members\n\nJohn McCain was the Republican Party candidate for President of the United States in 2008. Rick Davis, his campaign manager, projected at one point that his staff would eventually increase to about 450. By early July 2008, it had opened 11 regional offices in key states and some 84 offices total across the country in a joint effort with the Republican National Committee.\n\nPersons listed on the John McCain for President website:\n\nAccording to \"New York Times\" reporter John M. Broder:\nOthers joining later or listed in other sources include:\n\n\n\nIn October 2007, the \"Washington Post\" listed the following as McCain's foreign policy advisers.\nOther advisers:\n\nFrom a July 12, 2007 press release:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38963391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38963391", "title": "List of foods with religious symbolism", "text": "List of foods with religious symbolism\n\nThe list of foods with religious symbolism provides details, and links to articles, of foods which are used in religious communities or traditions to symbolise an aspect of the faith, or to commemorate a festival or hero of that faith group. Many such foods are also closely associated with a particular date or season. As with all religious traditions, some such foods have passed into widespread secular use, but all those on this list have a religious origin. The list is arranged alphabetically and by religion.\n\nMany religions have a particular 'cuisine' or tradition of cookery, associated with their culture (see, for example, List of Jewish cuisine dishes). This list is \"not\" intended for foods which are merely part of the cultural heritage of a religious body, but \"specifically\" those foods that bear religious symbolism in the way they are made, or the way they are eaten, or both.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1301990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1301990", "title": "Lumiracoxib", "text": "Lumiracoxib\n\nLumiracoxib (rINN) is a carboxylic acid COX-2 selective inhibitor nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, manufactured by Novartis and still sold in few countries, including Mexico, Ecuador and the Dominican Republic, under the trade name Prexige (sometimes misquoted as \"Prestige\" by the media).\n\nLumiracoxib has several distinctive features. Its structure is different from that of other COX-2 inhibitors, such as celecoxib: lumiracoxib is an analogue of diclofenac (one chlorine substituted by fluorine, the phenylacetic acid has another methyl group in meta position), making it a member of the arylalkanoic acid class of NSAIDs; it binds to a different site on the COX-2 enzyme than do other COX-2 inhibitors; it is the only acidic coxib and has the highest COX-2 selectivity of any NSAID.\n\nSince its original approval, lumiracoxib has been withdrawn from the market in several countries, mostly due to its potential for causing liver failure (sometimes requiring liver transplantation). It has never been approved for use in the United States.\n\nThe TARGET study (Therapeutic Arthritis Research and Gastrointestinal Event Trial) was conducted with more than 18,000 patients to test its gastrointestinal and cardiovascular safety against naproxen and ibuprofen and also study its efficacy against these two NSAIDs.\n\nIn November 2006, Prexige received marketing approval for all European Union countries through a common procedure called MRP. However, in August 2007, Prexige was withdrawn from the market in Australia following 8 serious liver adverse events, including 2 deaths and 2 liver transplants. On September 27, 2007, the US Food and Drug Administration issued a not approvable letter for lumiracoxib, requiring additional safety data. Canada withdrew Prexige (approved at 100 mg dose only) in October 2007. Several European Union countries followed suit in November 2007.\n\nThe FDA rejected Prexige as a trade name for lumiracoxib in 2003. Prexede was suggested as an alternative, but the FDA Division of Medication Errors and Technical Support (DMETS) subsequently recommended against it as well.\n\nOn August 11, 2007, Australia's Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA, the national agency responsible for regulation of pharmaceuticals) cancelled the registration of lumiracoxib in Australia due to concerns that it may cause liver failure.\n\nAccording to the TGA's Principal Medical Adviser, Dr Rohan Hammett, as of 10 August 2007 the TGA had received 8 reports of serious adverse liver reactions to the drug, including two deaths and two liver transplants.\n\"The TGA and its expert advisory committee, the Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee (ADRAC), have urgently investigated these reports. ADRAC has today recommended the cancellation of the registration of Lumiracoxib due to the severity of the reported side effects associated with this drug,\" Dr Hammett said.\n\n\"The TGA has taken this advice to cancel the registration of Lumiracoxib in order to prevent further cases of severe liver damage.\n\n\"It seems that the longer people are on the medicine, the greater the chance of liver injury. The TGA is, therefore, advising people to stop taking the Lumiracoxib immediately and to discuss alternative treatments with their doctor,\" Dr Hammett said.\nNew Zealand has followed suit with Australia in recalling Prexige.\n\nOn October 3, 2007, Health Canada requested sales of Prexige to stop. Novartis has agreed to the request and has taken steps to do so. On December 13, 2007, the European Medicines Agency recommended the withdrawal for Prexige from all EU markets.\n\nOn January 17, 2008, the Philippines Department of Health ordered Novartis Healthcare Phils. Inc. (Novartis) to remove (recall) all lumiracoxib from local drug stores in 2 weeks due to the harmful effects of the drug (potential serious liver-related side effects, hepatotoxicity or malfunction of the lungs).\n\nOn July 22, 2008, The Brazilian National Health Surveillance Agency ordered the withdrawal of 100 mg formulations of lumiracoxib and suspended marketing of the 400 mg formulation for 90 days, after a three-year safety review found a marked increase in adverse event reports; 35% of lumiracoxib-associated adverse events reported worldwide between July 2005 and April 2008 were found to have occurred in Brazil. Lumiracoxib was definitively withdrawn from the Brazilian market on October 3, 2008.\n\nOn November 12, 2008, INVIMA, the Colombian National Institute for Food and Drug Surveillance ordered the withdrawal of all presentations of lumiracoxib (Prexige), due to the international reports on hepatotoxicity.\n\n"}
{"id": "538737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538737", "title": "Michigan Womyn's Music Festival", "text": "Michigan Womyn's Music Festival\n\nThe Michigan Womyn's Music Festival, often referred to as MWMF or Michfest, and called the \"Original Womyn's Woodstock\", was an international feminist music festival held every August from 1976 to 2015 in Oceana County, Michigan, USA, near Hart Township, in a small wooded area referred to as \"The Land\" by MichFest organizers and attendees. The event was completely built, staffed, run and attended by women. Attendees described attending the event as a powerful and unique experience for them.\n\nLisa Vogel, founder and organizer of MWMF, described the intention of the festival as being for \"womyn-born womyn\". Controversy about Michfest's objective to be a space for womyn-born-womyn led to protests by trans women and the 2014 call by LGBT civil rights advocacy group Equality Michigan (\"EM\") to boycott the Festival, which was joined by the Human Rights Campaign, the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, the National Center for Lesbian Rights, and the National LGBTQ Task Force. The festival held its final event in August 2015.\n\nAmerica's first \"women's music festivals\" began appearing in the early 1970s, starting with day festivals at the Sacramento State and San Diego State University campuses, the Midwest Women's Festival held in Missouri, the Boston Women's Music Festival, and the National Women's Music Festival at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. These first regional women-only events exposed audiences to feminist and openly lesbian artists, most of whom operated independently of the mainstream recording industry. Festival gatherings offered an alternative to urban bars, coffeehouses and protest marches, which were some of the few opportunities for lesbians to meet one another in the early 1970s. The feminist separatism of the spaces was a direct outgrowth of and solidarity with the activism created by black power and other racial solidarity movements.\n\nIn a 2013 \"Letter to the Community\", Michfest founder and organizer Lisa Vogel explained MWMF's womyn-born womyn intention as a women-only space: \"The Festival, for a single precious week, is intended for womyn who at birth were deemed female, who were raised as girls, and who identify as womyn. I believe that womyn-born womyn (WBW) is a lived experience that constitutes its own distinct gender identity.\"\n\nAs a private, women-only camping event, the Michigan festival was founded in 1976 by 19-year-old Lisa Vogel, who, with sister Kristie Vogel and friend Mary Kindig, planned an event along the lines of the recent Boston Women's Music Festival and the Midwest Women's Festival.\n\nIn 1982, the Festival, then in its seventh year, moved to its long-term 650-acre location near Hart, Michigan, attracting the largest audience hitherto (upwards of 8,000 campers). Gradually, it added an acoustic stage (and an August night open mic stage) in addition to day stage and night stage programming. After much discussion, cement-paved walkways were added to ease access for women with mobility challenges and baby strollers. Barbara \"Boo\" Price became Lisa Vogel's business partner after the 1985 festival and was increasingly involved with production until the two parted ways in 1994. The 1980s saw many unique challenges, including the production of a 10th anniversary double album in 1985, the growth of the gathering to five days (with new intensive workshops) by 1986, the extraordinary thunderstorms of the \"Harmonic Convergence\" year in 1987, and an outbreak of shigella in 1988 (the swift handling of which was praised by both local and national health inspectors).\n\nDuring the 1990s the Festival updated structurally and musically to expand styles of stage performance for a new generation of performers, adding a runway to the Night Stage, a mosh pit, and acts including the Indigo Girls and Tribe 8.\n\nWriting from a personal perspective for the \"Village Voice\" in fall 1994, artist and Festival kitchen worker Gretchen Phillips said: \"I had never seen so many breasts before, so many bare asses, so much damn skin on such a vast terrain. I decided to make that weekend all about studying my body issues\" and \"I've always used Mich as a place to charge my batteries for the rest of the year, planning my life around being there in August and learning my lessons, both fun and hard.\"\n\nPlaywright Carolyn Gage later said: \"At Michfest, she can experience a degree of safety that is not available to any woman any time anywhere except at the festival. And what does that mean? It means she achieves a level of relaxation, physical, psychic, cellular, that she had never experienced before. She is free, sisters. She is free. Often for the first time in her life.\"\n\nIn 1999, author and feminist scholar Bonnie Morris described it as \"An entire city run by and for lesbian feminists. Utopia revealed. And Eden—built by Eves.\"\n\nMichFest celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2015. On April 21, Lisa Vogel announced via \"Facebook\" that it would also be the last festival. An opinion published in \"The Advocate\" by a festivalgoer speculated that the ongoing controversy regarding trans women was to blame. Vogel wrote in her statement:\n\nAttendance at the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival ranged from 3,000 to 10,000. Women build all of the stages, run the lighting and sound systems, make the trash collection rounds, serve as electricians, mechanics, security, medical and psychological support, cook meals for thousands over open fire pits, provide childcare, and facilitate workshops covering various topics of interest to the attendees, who are referred to as \"festies\". Hundreds of women spent upwards of a month out on the land building the festival from the ground up because it was torn down after each event ended, leaving the land as close to how it was found as possible.\n\nCommunity decisions were made through worker community meetings where the youngest members of the community were given as much access to participate as the oldest. Community service support included ASL translation at every performance, mental and physical health care, AA meetings, camping for disabled women, as well as a tent solely for women of color. While men were not allowed at the Festival, male children age 4 and under were allowed within the festival. Childcare for girls and boys aged 5 and under is provided by Sprouts, and for 5 and over girls the main venue is \"Gaia Girls\". There is also teen circle. Brother Sun Boys Camp was available for boys aged 5 to 10.\n\nThe Festival created a space for performers of all genres to share their music. While many artists had earned mainstream success after their performance at the festival, the Festival supported diverse performances. Genres include classical, jazz, folk, hard rock, acoustic, bluegrass and gospel. The Festival created a high-tech production with three stages in a rural outdoor venue. Musicians and artists who performed at the festival represented a range of lesbian and womyn's art and music, from Sarah Bettens, Laura Nyro, Hattie Gossett, Sweet Honey in the Rock, Tracy Chapman, Holly Near, Team Dresch, Kathleen Hanna, Tribe 8, Sia, Staceyann Chin and many more.\n\nControversy over the Festival's determination to remain a space for cisgender females led to protests by trans women and their allies, and a boycott of the Festival by Equality Michigan in 2014. The boycott was joined by the Human Rights Campaign (\"HRC\"), the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (\"GLAAD\"), the National Center for Lesbian Rights (\"NCLR\"), and the National LGBTQ Task Force (\"The Task Force\").\n\nIn response to the anti-Festival petition, the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival stated: \"MWMF is not just a party. It is a space wherein females—who have been subjected to all manner of degradation from the moment of their first breath—can unpack and put down the oppressions that are directly tied to that experience under patriarchy...Equality Michigan has initiated a petition and call to action against the Festival based on misrepresentations, purposeful omissions, and selective editing of prior Festival statements on this issue.\" Lisa Vogel referred to the boycott as \"McCarthy-era blacklist tactics\". Michfest supporters responded to the shunning with social media posts, letters, and online media presentations such as \"Myths and The Truth About the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival\". NCLR and The Task Force withdrew their support of the boycott, and Equality Michigan's executive director resigned from the organization.\n\nThe womyn-born-womyn intention first came to attention in 1991 after a transsexual festival-goer, Nancy Burkholder, was asked to leave the festival when several women recognized her as a trans woman and expressed discomfort with her presence in the space. In August 2014, Lisa Vogel apologized for this incident, stating:\n\nIn a 2005 interview with Amy Ray, Vogel discussed the intention within its informing political framework and stated: \"I feel very strongly that having a space for women, who are born women, to come together for a week, is a healthy, whole, loving space to provide for women who have that experience. To label that as transphobic is, to me, as misplaced as saying the women-of-color tent is racist, or to say that a transsexual-only space, a gathering of folks of women who are born men is misogynist. I have always in my heart believed in the politics and the culture of separate time and space.\"\n\nAfter the Burkholder incident, a protest movement against the womyn-born-womyn intention was organized. Opponents contended that it constituted discrimination against transsexual and transgender people, many of whom identified as women and were legally female. In 1994, a protest camp was created across the road from the Festival called Camp Trans (and later, \"Son of Camp Trans\"). In 2006, a trans woman and Camp Trans organizer named Lorraine was sold a ticket at the box office. Supporters of trans women inclusion then issued a press release declaring, incorrectly, that the womyn-born-womyn objective was no longer in effect. In response, Lisa Vogel reiterated the Festival's adherence to the intention, and also confronted the distribution of misinformation and accusations of transphobia by Camp Trans, in an August 2006 press release:\n\nThe Michigan Womyn's Music Festival staunchly defended its raison d'être, described by Vogel as \"a predominantly lesbian community...defined by lesbian culture\" with \"a focus on the experience of those born female, who've lived their lives subjected to oppression based on the sole fact of their being female.\" In her statement, Vogel added that \"it is not the inclusion of trans women at Festival that we resist; it is the erasure of the specificity of female experience.\"\n\nThe protests against womyn-born womyn spaces resulted in some artists who had been invited to and/or performed at the Festival losing contracts or forced to cancel appearances because of their support, or their appearance of support, for the festival's intention. Other performers were physically threatened by pro-inclusion supporters, faced verbal harassment and bomb threats. In October 2013, filmmaker Sara St. Martin Lynne was asked to resign from the board of the Bay Area Girls Rock Camp for attending the festival (the organization's Festival-related team had raised funds for BAGRC).\n\nIn response to an April 2013 Change.org petition by trans activist Red Durkin asking performers to boycott MWMF until trans women were included, Lisa Vogel released a statement reaffirming the Festival's viewpoint:\n\nHowever, several trans women attended the festival openly and volunteered to work on crew. The presence of transgender women at MichFest was known to many attendees.\n\nPhotographer Angela Jimenez spent five years, from 2003 to 2008, documenting the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival, specifically focusing on the workers who create the festival each year. Several artists, including Desdemona Burgin and Sara St. Martin Lynne have created videos and other art celebrating the freeing experience of the \"Land.\" These productions specifically detail the experiences of liberation that females feel in escaping male dominated culture and spaces for the Festival. In 2014, a new website was created, compiling stories from women who have attended the festival, about what the festival means to them.\n\nFor years, women created small gatherings outside of the festival and August in their own local communities, consisting mostly of small house parties and potlucks. After attending a festival in August 2004 and a pre-fest potluck, festie and entrepreneur, Lisa A. Snyder, was inspired to take the gatherings to the next level by creating a party that highlighted pieces of the festival in the middle of New York City. In 2005, she created the very first \"Michfest Half-Way Soirée\", a party that supported the local Michigan Womyn's Music Festival community, female musicians, and women-owned businesses. The worker community and festie community were encouraged to co-mingle and introduce new \"festie virgins\" to feel a slice of the festival energy, halfway to August. The benefit, the first of its kind (started by Snyder in New York City) also created buzz about the festival, appearing several times in \"Time Out\" New York and most recently in the February 2011 issue of \"GO\" in \"The Very Best of New York City Music\" section.\n\nIn the 2010s, additional locations for the Half-Way to Michfest Parties (sometimes also called Mid-Way Parties or Michfest Half-Way Parties) have begun to pop up across the United States. Known locations include Chicago; San Francisco Bay Area; Portland, Oregon; Boston; Ann Arbor, Michigan; Santa Cruz, California; Syracuse, New York; Long Beach, California; Western Massachusetts; Tampa, Florida; Yellow Springs, Ohio and Bellingham, Washington.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49061540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49061540", "title": "Mrs Henderson Presents (musical)", "text": "Mrs Henderson Presents (musical)\n\nMrs Henderson Presents is a musical comedy with music by George Fenton and Simon Chamberlain, with lyrics by Don Black and a book by Terry Johnson. Based on the 2005 film \"Mrs Henderson Presents\", the musical received its world premiere at the Theatre Royal, Bath in 2015 and transferred to the West End's Noel Coward Theatre in February 2016. The film was based on the true story of Laura Henderson and London's Windmill Theatre.\n\nThe musical is based on the 2005 film \"Mrs Henderson Presents\". The film was based on the true story of London's Windmill Theatre and its owner Laura Henderson, who transformed the theatre and produced Revudeville shows featuring static naked tableaux girls, exploiting a loophole in the Lord Chamberlain's Lord Cromer censorship laws.\n\nIn June 2014, it was first revealed by producer John Reid that an adaption was in the works, with a workshop taking place the same year. On 16 October 2014, the musical was officially confirmed and it was announced that the show would receive its world premiere in summer 2015, with a view to a West End transfer. The musical is directed by and has a book by Terry Johnson, based on an original screenplay by Martin Sherman, with choreography by Andrew Wright, set design by Tim Shortall, costume design by Paul Wills, lighting by Ben Ormerod and magic consultancy by Scott Penrose.\n\nThe show's premiere production began previews at the Theatre Royal in Bath, on 15 August 2015, with its official opening night coming on 26 August, for a limited run until 25 September 2015. Rehearsals began on 7 July 2015. On 6 March 2015, initial casting was announced with the news that Janie Dee would play the role of Laura Henderson with Emma Williams playing Maureen. Further notable casting included Ian Bartholomew as Vivian Van Damm and Mark Hadfield as Arthur. On 7 July 2015, it was revealed that Janie Dee had withdrawn from the production prior to rehearsals due to personal reasons and that Tracie Bennett would replace her in the role of Laura Henderson.\n\nFollowing completion of the musicals tryout in Bath, it was announced that the show would transfer to the Noel Coward Theatre in London's West End, with an official opening night of 16 February 2016, following previews from 9 February. The majority of the cast reprised their roles with the exceptions of Mark Hadfield, who was replaced in the role of Arthur by former EastEnders actor Jamie Foreman, Graham Hoadly who (owing to a prior contractual commitment) was replaced in the role of Lord Cromer by Robert Hands and Jane Milligan who was replaced in the role of Lady Conway by Liz Ewing.\n\nThe West End show garnered mixed reviews and closed after its initial four month run. No official reason was given for the close although it is not believed to have been a financial success. In her 2 star review for the Evening Standard, Fiona Mountford stated that the musical \"shares with the film a desperate lack of momentum\", and of the songs, \"none are memorable\". In his 4 star review for The Stage, Mark Shenton stated that the show \"doesn't shy from occasional hard edges. Instead, by concentrating on the backstage lives of the dancers and management of the Windmill, there's more of a jaunty, frequently patriotic, flavour to it – that both sings and occasionally stings.\n\nPrior to its opening in London it was announced that the production would transfer to Toronto in early 2017 and the production opened on March 15, 2017 at the Royal Alexandra Theatre in Toronto, Canada where it played a limited engagement until April 23, 2017. The show was essentially recast although Tracie Bennett reprised the role of Mrs Henderson, with the cast also including Peter Polycarpou and Evelyn Hoskins as Maureen,\n\nThe show is now listed as a \"Past Production\" by Michael Harrison Entertainment.\n\nThe musical features an original score composed by George Fenton and Simon Chamberlain, with lyrics by Don Black, orchestrations by Larry Blank, sound design by Gareth Owen and musical direction by Mike Dixon.\n\nThe musical uses an eight-member orchestra consisting of Keyboard, Woodwind, Trumpet, Drum's, Percussion, Double Bass and Cello.\n"}
{"id": "55947487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55947487", "title": "Museum of Ice Cream", "text": "Museum of Ice Cream\n\nMuseum of Ice Cream, started in Manhattan, New York City, is an interactive art exhibit with ice cream and candy themed exhibits, all brightly colored, in a maze of rooms containing \"among other things, a rock-candy cave, a unicorn, and a swimming pool of rainbow sprinkles\". The exhibits are very often the backdrop for selfies, and the many selfies posted to Instagram, Flickr, Facebook, and other social media sites have served to promote the exhibit. Each visitor is offered numerous tastings throughout. Tickets must be purchased in advance for specific time slots online only.\n\nThe term \"museum\" was chosen for the temporary art exhibition because it was something people would understand.\n\nThe exhibition was co-founded by Maryellis Bunn, from Laguna Beach, and Manish Vora, previously of equity research firm Monness, Crespi & Hardt. The exhibition is the brainchild of Maryellis Bunn who was looking for a way to connect to millennial audiences. She said \"It's all about fun, and feeling like a kid again. Everyone loves ice cream. It's a way to bring people together.\"\n\nThe exhibit first opened in Manhattan in the summer of 2016 and has since opened in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Miami. It has been wildly popular, with celebrity visitors including Katy Perry, Kim Kardashian, Gwyneth Paltrow, Drew Barrymore, and on Mother's Day, Jay-Z, Beyoncé, and Blue Ivy were photographed lounging in the museum's Sprinkle Pool.\n\nThe San Francisco exhibit sold out its first batch of tickets in 18 minutes.\n\nAs of November 2017 the exhibitions combined have had over 500,000 visitors.\n\n"}
{"id": "48664941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48664941", "title": "Nacht van de Wansmaak", "text": "Nacht van de Wansmaak\n\nNacht van de Wansmaak (Translation: \"Night of Repulsion\") is a Flemish-Dutch film festival dedicated to cult films, exploitation films and other bizarre B-films.\n\nThe festival is organized by Belgian film director Jan Verheyen (under the alias of \"Max Rockatansky\") and Dutch film director and journalist Jan Doense (under the alias of \"Mr. Horror\"). They provide the live introduction to each movie and film trailer shown at the festival. The event tours throughout the Netherlands and Flanders during all the important film theaters in Rotterdam, Utrecht, Groningen, Enschede, Amsterdam, Vlissingen, Ghent, Hasselt, Antwerp, Kortrijk, Biddinghuizen, Vlieland, Arnhem, Breda, Koersel-Beringen, Eindhoven, Leiden, Amersfoort, Nijmegen, Roeselare, Deventer, Zwolle and Brussels.\n\nIn 1986 Verheyen organized a \"Nacht van de Rariteiten\" (\"Night of the Oddities\") film festival in \"De Vooruit\" in Ghent. Despite having a low attendance of only 12 people the idea was reorganized into a full-blown film festival on 28 April 1990 in Rotterdam, which had more success. Under the new name \"Nacht van de Wansmaak\" the festival became a recurring event in 1997, 2001, 2003, 2004-2006 and again in 2014.\n\nDuring the late 1990s and early 2000s Verheyen also presented a TV show on the Flemish network Kanaal 2 (nowadays 2BE) under the title \"Nacht van de Wansmaak\".\n\nIn 2003 two DVD's with trailers of obscure B-movies were released.,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30102765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30102765", "title": "New Year's Eve in London", "text": "New Year's Eve in London\n\nNew Year's Eve in London, a New Year's Eve firework display, is celebrated along the Victoria Embankment and South Bank areas of the River Thames where the London Eye and Big Ben are situated. The countdown is accompanied by the chimes of Big Ben, and a digital countdown timer projected onto the Shell Centre, until 2017. The fireworks are launched off the London Eye at midnight. A company, Titanium Fireworks are responsible for the pyrotechnics.\n\nThe first major New Year's Eve fireworks display in London was planned in December 1999 to celebrate the year 2000. It was estimated by the BBC that about 3 million people turned up around the Thames to watch the fireworks display. A \"river of fire\" was planned to accompany the fireworks display, but failed to make an impact. A fireworks display was planned during 2000 to celebrate 2001, but was cancelled in November due to a dispute between then-Mayor of London Ken Livingstone and the London Underground. Similar disputes also occurred, causing displays to be cancelled for both the 2001–02 and 2002–03 celebrations, although approximately 80,000 revellers gathered around Trafalgar Square to celebrate the New Year.\n\nAfter a short three-year hiatus, for the 2003–04 event, there were fireworks though only for three minutes. For the 2004–05 event, in the run-up to midnight, an image of candles was projected onto the Shell Centre as a tribute to the victims of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. Also, at midnight, fireworks were launched from the wheel itself for the first time.\n\nFor the 2011–12 extravaganza, fireworks were fired in a one-off event from Elizabeth Tower, launching from the top of the building outwards above the many spectators and well wishers below, welcoming in the year in which London went on to host the Olympic Games. Fireworks were launched in the shape and colour of the Olympic flag, in a display that lasted approximately eleven minutes compared to being reduced to eight minutes in 2010.\n\nThe 2012–13 display was based on both the diamond jubilee and the Olympics. The Queen's Christmas speech was used in the firework display for the first time.\n\nThe theme of the 2013–14 fireworks was 'Firsts' a projection prior to the fireworks featured Mayor of London Boris Johnson talking about the many 'firsts' that have come from the United Kingdom and London itself. He then went on to explain the 2013–14 fireworks would the \"world first\" multi-sensory fireworks display with fruit flavoured sweets and radio controlled LED bracelets which had previously been used during Coldplay's Mylo Xyloto Tour and the London 2012 Paralympics Closing Ceremony being handed out to revellers when entering the viewing areas. These sweets were as stated in the information leaflet to be eaten prior to the display to \"prepare\" spectators with the flavours that they were going to experience during the evening. Scented mists and edible flavoured foam were also sprayed throughout the performance.\n\nFor the 2014–15 display, the designer of the display stated that the fireworks would focus on London being a world-class city and how it can continue its repetition on being one. It was also focused on how the New Year's event in London was special to the public. The 2014–15 display was the subject of controversy as a £10 charge was introduced by the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, for tickets to the official viewing areas.\n\nFor the 2015–16 display, the Mayor of London announced a partnership with UNICEF to raise money for the charity from the profits made during the evening. The Elizabeth Tower clock face, London Eye and the surrounding areas were lit in blue to support the cause.\n\nNew Mayor of London Sadiq Khan stated the 2016–17 display will be the \"most exciting New Year fireworks yet for the city\". Khan announced a partnership with the BBC to film the fireworks in 360 degrees. The fireworks display paid homage to Prince, David Bowie and Ronnie Corbett who died in 2016.\n\nThe 2017–18 firework display featured a soundtrack dominated by female artists such as Ariana Grande, Little Mix, Annie Lennox, Aretha Franklin, Dua Lipa and Florence Welch which was played to mark the centenary of women being allowed to vote. Big Ben also chimed at midnight amid ongoing repairs. For the first time, the 60 second countdown was only projected from 15 seconds instead of the full 60 seconds due to Big Ben's accuracy being different due to the repair work being carried out on the tower and the bell. In addition, the London Eye's capsules also marked the countdown with each of them lighting down from 10 seconds. Ariana Grande's One Last Time was played as part of the soundtrack to the firework display with 22 red fireworks to pay tribute to the 22 people who died in the Manchester Arena attack.\n\nIt is unknown if Big Ben will be able to chime due to repair works on the tower which last until 2021, but however Big Ben’s clock hands were taken off in April, so for the first time ever the next event could all be digitally timed. It is known that lots of people will show up.\n\nSince 2010–11, musical soundtracks have been played during the fireworks. In 2010–11, 2011–12 and 2014–15, BBC Radio 1 provided the soundtrack to the firework displays. In 2012–13, 2013–14, 2015–16, 2016–17, 2017–18, and 2018-19, Bounce, a music editing company based in London, provided the soundtrack to the displays.\n\nFireworks Soundtracks\n\nFireworks Soundtracks\n\nFireworks Soundtracks\n\nFireworks Soundtracks\n\nFireworks Soundtracks\n\nFireworks Soundtracks\n\nFireworks Soundtracks\n\nFireworks Soundtracks\n\nThe fireworks are broadcast on BBC One on a show entitled \"New Year's Eve Fireworks\". In addition, the network's \"2000 Today\" broadcast the display for the very first time. Sky News, ITV News and CNN also provide coverage on the fireworks and still cover as of 2017. \n\n"}
{"id": "51185916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51185916", "title": "Novi magazin", "text": "Novi magazin\n\nNovi magazin (Serbian Cyrillic: Нови магазин, English: \"New Magazine\") is a Serbian-language weekly print news magazine headquartered in Belgrade. It features original articles on social, economic, and political topics, with the editorial policy described as \"moderately critical [of the Serbian government] and pro-European\". The magazine was founded in 2011.\n\nThe chairman and editor-in-chief is Nadežda Gaće, a journalist who served as the president of Independent Journalist Association of Serbia (\"Nezavisno udruženje novinara Srbije\" – NUNS). Deputy editor-in-chief is Mijat Lakićević.\n\nThe magazine was established with financial help from Miroslav Bogićević, a businessman who owns an array of Serbian companies, most notably Farmakom. Before establishing \"Novi magazin\", Bogićević unsuccessfully tried to purchase the major political magazine \"NIN\". Nadežda Gaće is registered as the sole owner in the Serbian Business Registers Agency.\n\nNews desk of the magazine includes Marija Kolaković, Đurađ Šimić and Miša Brkić. Regular columnists are Dimitrije Boarov, Vladimir Gligorov and Momčilo Pantelić. A novelist Marija Sajkas is a regular contributor from the U.S.\n\n"}
{"id": "57970889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57970889", "title": "Salle du Bel-Air", "text": "Salle du Bel-Air\n\nThe Salle du Bel-Air or Salle du Jeu de Paume de Béquet (Hall of the Béquet Tennis Court) was a 1672 theatre located in Paris, France. Originally an indoor tennis court (\"jeu de paume\") it was converted by the Italian designer Carlo Vigarani into a theatre which was used by Jean-Baptiste Lully's Paris Opera from 15 November 1672 to 1 February 1673. It was located in the Rue de Vaugirard, just west of the city moat (\"fossé\") and the Rue des Fossés Monsieur-le-Prince (now the Rue Monsieur-le-Prince). Today the site of the former theatre extends into the Rue de Médicis, just south of no. 15 (or 13 bis) Rue de Vaugirard.\n\nLully's \"Les fêtes de l'Amour et de Bacchus\" opened at the Salle du Bel-Air in November 1672. This was followed by his first \"tragédie lyrique\", \"Cadmus et Hermione\", on 27 April 1673. The theatre was equipped with stage machinery, but Lully regarded it as temporary. After Molière died on 17 February 1673, Lully convinced King Louis XIV to allow him to use Molière's theatre at the Palais-Royal free of charge.\n\n"}
{"id": "41684002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41684002", "title": "Sharwin I", "text": "Sharwin I\n\nSharwin I (Persian: شروین) was the fifth ruler of the Bavand dynasty from 772 to 817. He was the son and successor of Surkhab II.\n\nIn 760, during the reign of Sharwin's father Surkhab II, Khurshid, the head of the Dabuyid dynasty that had ruled Tabaristan since the Muslim conquest of Persia, revolted against the Abbasid Caliphate. Khurshid was defeated and poisoned himself after learning that his family had been captured by the Abbasids. This marked the end of the Dabuyid dynasty, but other minor dynasties in the region such as the Bavandids, Karenids and Zarmihrids, who were all formerly subject to the Dabuyids, continued to control parts of Tabaristan as tributary vassals of the Abbasid government.\n\nIn 772, Surkhab II died, and was succeeded by Sharwin I. During the same period, Khalid ibn Barmak, the Abbasid governor of Tabaristan, left the region. Shortly after Khalid's departure, the Karenid ruler Vandad Hormozd sent Sharwin a letter which urged him to revolt against the Abbasids. Sharwin accepted, and along with Vandad Hormozd and the Zarmihrid ruler revolted against the Abbasids. Sharwin then began destroying the cities built by the Muslims in the region, and in 782, along with Vandad Hormozd, exterminated all the Muslims in Tabaristan. During the same period, the Karenids assumed the former Dabuyid title of \"Gilgilan\", while Sharwin assumed the title of \"Padashwargarshah\" (\"King of the Mountains\").\n\nSharwin and the other rulers of Tabaristan managed to repel several Arab invasions of Tabaristan, until they were finally defeated in 785, and once again agreed to pay tribute to the Abbasid caliphs.\n\nIn 805, the Abbasid caliph Harun al-Rashid visited Ray where he met Sharwin and Vandad Hormozd, who reaffirmed their submission to him and promised to pay tax. In order to ensure their loyalty, Harun took Sharwin's grandson Shahriyar I and Vandad Hormozd's son Karin as hostages to Baghdad. The two princes were allowed to return to Tabaristan after Harun's death four years later.\n\nSharwin died in 817, and was succeeded by his grandson Shahriyar I.\n\n"}
{"id": "33419784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33419784", "title": "So Cruel", "text": "So Cruel\n\n\"So Cruel\" is a song by rock band U2. It is the sixth track on their 1991 album \"Achtung Baby\", concluding side one of the album. The song was written at Elsinore in Dalkey. While audio engineer Flood changed reels to listen to a demo of another song, lead singer Bono began to improvise a song on guitar. The rest of the band quickly joined in, creating the first take of the song. It was developed as an acoustic track, with Flood adding overdubs and additional elements later. Bassist Adam Clayton and Flood noted that the technology in the studio was crucial in transforming the acoustic song into the final mix.\n\nDuring the recording sessions for \"Achtung Baby\", guitarist the Edge separated from his wife, Aislinn O'Sullivan. The separation had a major effect on the development of the song, as Bono channelled their pain into the lyrics. Bono said \"there were lots of other things going on internally within the band and outside it, and I was working through all of that\", noting that the Edge's separation from Aislinn was just one component of that. Thematically the song is about unrequited love, jealousy, obsession, and possessiveness.\n\nU2 have performed \"So Cruel\" live just four times, all of which were on the Zoo TV Tour in 1992. The track was favourably received by critics.\n\n\"So Cruel\" was developed by lead singer Bono. Following the recording sessions at Hansa Studios in West Berlin in 1990, U2 resumed the album's sessions in February 1991 at the seaside manor Elsinore in Dalkey, renting the house for ₤10,000 per month. Producer Daniel Lanois' strategy was to record in houses, mansions, or castles, as he believed it brought atmosphere to the recordings. During the recording at Elsinore, while working on another song, audio engineer Flood changed the reel to listen to an earlier take. Bono picked up a guitar and began to sing. The rest of the band quickly joined in. Flood said, \"All of a sudden, almost in the time it had taken for me to wind off the reel and wind the next reel on, it was quite obvious that there was a song about to pop out, and if I wasn't suddenly taking the reel off and getting a new piece of tape on, and changing from monitoring a backing track downstairs to everybody's in the control room wanting to record now, it would never have happened.\"\n\n\"So Cruel\" was developed acoustically, with guitarist the Edge playing an acoustic guitar, bassist Adam Clayton playing an acoustic bass, and drummer Larry Mullen, Jr. using a bodhrán. Author John D. Luerssen interpreted the song as beginning \"with the same kind of basic approach to songcraft that gave wings to 'She's a Mystery to Me'\". Bono said that \"People thought it was too traditional, one more attempt at writing a song for Roy Orbison\". Lyrically, it was also inspired by Scott Walker. Bono said, \"His is a very delicate mode of expression on the outside, though too often it is laced underneath with a lot of pain and rage.\"\n\nAccording to Clayton, Flood \"did a couple of treatments to the track that utterly transformed it.\" He keyed Clayton's bass with the bodhrán, which \"gave it a much more bubbly, off-beat feel\". This was followed by some overdubbing and the laying down of a full drum track. Flood said, \"I think the way we shifted around the rhythm was very important... The bass is played, but in the studio we doctored it to change the emphasis of where the bass line lay. That turned it into something that had a more unique feel about it, meshed against the song.\" Duchess Nell Catchpole was brought in to play violin and viola for the song. The strings were arranged by the Edge and producer Brian Eno. Clayton explained that while the original acoustic version \"wasn't something one could imagine being on the record\", it \"was lifted up by studio trickery.\" Flood believes that the use of technology was crucial in making the final mix. An early version of the track was later released on some versions of the 20th anniversary reissue of \"Achtung Baby\".\n\nDuring the recording sessions for \"Achtung Baby\", the Edge separated from his wife, Aislinn O'Sullivan. Reflecting on the impact it had on U2, Bono said, \"We're a really tight community. This is not like somebody's, you know, girlfriend's left. We've grown up with these people, this our family, our community. This was really hard for us... It was like the first cracks on the beautiful porcelain jug with those beautiful flowers in it that was our music and our community, starting to go 'crack'.\" The Edge explained that travelling to Berlin to write and record provided him with an escape from his failing marriage: \"I was disappearing into the music for a different reason. It was a refuge in a way. That approach didn't completely work. You know, I wasn't really... in a good positive headspace. I was running away, I suppose.\" \"Hot Press\" editor Niall Stokes noted that in the lyrics, \"Bono is clearly drawing on the experiences of those close to him, and particularly on the emotional turmoil that the Edge and Aislinn had been going through.\" Bono said \"that's in there, but it's unfair to lump it all on the Edge and Aislinn splitting up. That was one of the saddest things... But that was only one part of it. There were lots of other things going on internally within the band and outside it, and I was working through all of that. People are desperately trying to hold onto each other in a time when that's very difficult. Looking around, you see how unprepared for it all people are, and the deals they make.\"\n\nThematically, \"So Cruel\" also deals with unrequited love, jealousy, obsession, and possessiveness. Stokes described it as \"the desolate complaint of a lover who has been spurned but who remains in love with his tormentor.\" \"Uncut\" contributor Gavin Martin said \"the lyrics of the song reinforce the idea of \"Achtung Baby\" as a kind of romantic masque, where images of love, debased or abandoned, abound.\" Elizabeth Wurtzel of \"The New Yorker\" noted \"with its lovely string arrangements, winding keyboards, and frothy, hypnotic melodies, is reminiscent of Tommy James's \"Crimson and Clover\", except that every lovingly sweet line is contrasted with a bitterly ironic counter line\", citing the lyric \"I disappeared in you / You disappeared from me / I gave you everything you wanted / It wasn't what you wanted\" as an example. Hubert Dreyfuss, a Professor of Philosophy at the University of California, Berkeley and Mark Wrathall, a Humanities Professor at Brigham Young University believed that the song was an exploration into philosophical dualism. Quoting the lyric \"Head of heaven, fingers in the mire\", they said \"if we are essentially dual in this way, then any attempt to overcome one side in favour of the other inevitably ends in despair\", comparing the underlying philosophy to Blaise Pascal's \"Pensées\".\n\nAuthor Višnja Cogan wrote \"Women... never get treated badly in U2 songs... Women are put on a pedestal by Bono, his mother's untimely death being undoubtedly one of the reasons. If anything, in some of the songs on \"Achtung Baby\", it is the man who gets the raw deal. On 'So Cruel', it is the man who is the victim of a woman. It is the reverse of the classical torch song\". Quoting the lyric \"Her skin is pale like God's only dove / Screams like an angel for your love / Then she makes you watch her from above / And you need her like a drug\", he added \"The man is manipulated by the woman's sexual power. He is incapable of pulling himself out of this relationship and despite his best efforts, he comes back to her.\" He noted that the woman is portrayed as \"cruel, unreliable and unfaithful. She can only betray him and the duality between love and lust is well depicted in the song.\" Cogan concluded by saying \"unlike the classical torch song, this one ends with the man seemingly deciding to leave the woman... The only thing we don't know in the end is whether he actually acts on his promise or not.\"\n\nConversely, author Deane Galbraith believed the song was told from the woman's viewpoint, saying \"a woman is unable to receive love without also hating those who love her. She acts simultaneously as tender lover and cruel sadist. The lyrics that describe her 'like an angel' are immediately juxtaposed with a more sordid description that pictures her love as an addictive and manipulative drug. Instead of the subtle and vivifying transcendence of a heavenly angel, when she offers to take her lover higher, he is forced to watch her while she controls him 'from above'. For this is a fallen angel, not purely good or evil, but a lover whose best intentions are insidiously corrupt\".\n\n\"So Cruel\" was favourably received by critics. \"Hot Press\" editor Niall Stokes called it \"dark, bitter, intense and masochistic\", believing the lyrics to be the aspect that made the song memorable. He added, \"As a statement about marital infidelity, the sense of betrayal that accompanies it and the rage that almost inevitably follows, it would be hard to surpass.\" \"Uncut\" contributor Gavin Martin rated the song four stars, calling it \"lustful and lustrous\". He said that \"the Edge's looped five-note piano motif is encircled by a sabre-rattling guitar and a fine synthesized string part; lushly multi-dimensional, pregnant with poise and feeling\" and that the theme of \"marital disharmony and emotional desolation\" underpinning \"Achtung Baby\" was especially evident on the song. Greg Potter of \"The Vancouver Sun\" wrote that it was \"riddled with images of self-doubt and uncertainty\". Elysa Gardner of \"Rolling Stone\" said, \"Bono sounds humbler and more vulnerable than in the past\", noting that he \"[acknowledges] his own potential for hypocrisy and inadequacy, and addressing basic human weaknesses rather than the failings of society at large\".\n\nSteve Morse of \"The Boston Globe\" called it an \"embittered love [song]\" with \"a minimalist drum sound from Larry Mullen and an even more minimalist vocal from Bono.\" Jon Pareles of \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"[love is] a state of desperation or a bitter memory... The marchlike 'So Cruel' [ricochets] from fond reminiscence to vindictiveness to accusations, some of them directed at the narrator himself\". Writing for the \"Boston Herald\", Julie Romandetta called \"So Cruel\" a \"broken-hearted [lament]\" that was \"lushly orchestrated\". Robert Hillburn of the \"Los Angeles Times\" believed that it was one of U2's best tracks, describing it as \"pulsating and accusatory\". Brian Eno described the song as \"epic and intimate, passionate and chill\".\n\nU2 have only performed \"So Cruel\" four times live, all of which were on the Zoo TV Tour. The first appearance was on 22 May 1992 in Milan, Italy, on the second leg of the tour when, at the end of \"Bad\", Bono sang a few lines of \"So Cruel\" in place of \"All I Want Is You\". In August 1992, a few days prior to the commencement of the third leg of the tour, U2 rehearsed the song in Hershey, Pennsylvania. The second performance in concert was on 22 August 1992 in Foxboro, Massachusetts. Bono performed the song acoustically. Concert historian Pimm Jal de la Parra said that it \"[chilled] the crowd.\" The final performances occurred on 9 and 15 September 1992 in Pontiac, Michigan, and Chicago, Illinois respectively. On both occasions it was played in place of \"All I Want Is You\". Abbreviated performances, recorded at Hansa studios, appear in the 2011 documentary \"From the Sky Down\".\n\nDepeche Mode reworked the song for the 2011 tribute album \"AHK-toong BAY-bi Covered\". \"We first heard \"Achtung Baby\" working on \"Songs of Faith and Devotion\" with Flood,\" remarked Martin Gore. \"It was the closest our bands ever got: U2 had become more electronic, while Depeche Mode were working on a new rock vision. But there was never a rivalry. Bono used reverse psychology in his email \"(requesting the band's participation in the tribute album)\", saying he totally understood why we'd say no. We just thought, 'Why not?' 'So Cruel' is Bono at his best, words-wise. And we couldn't tackle 'One' – that would be almost sacrilegious.\"\n\nU2\n\nAdditional performer\n\nTechnical\n\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "18785271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18785271", "title": "Sopot Hit Festival", "text": "Sopot Hit Festival\n\nSopot Hit Festival - is international song contest, bringing contestants and guests who are stars with world recognition. It has been transmitted annually by the Polish Television in the coastal resort of Sopot, Poland. Together with National Festival of Polish Song in Opole and Sopot Festival it the biggest Polish music festival.\n\n\n\nStars: Kate Ryan, Monrose, Arash.\n\n\n\nStars: Stachursky, Patrycja Markowska, Feel.\n\n"}
{"id": "33067333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33067333", "title": "Splinter", "text": "Splinter\n\nA splinter is a fragment of a larger object (especially wood), or a foreign body that penetrates or is purposely injected into a body. The foreign body must be lodged inside tissue to be considered a splinter. Splinters may cause initial pain through ripping of flesh and muscle, infection through bacteria on the foreign object, and severe internal damage through migration to vital organs or bone over time.\nSplinters commonly consist of wood, but there are many other types. According to the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), common types of splinters are glass, plastic, metal, and spines of animals.\n\nSplinters can necessitate amputation; if it is in the finger for more than one 2–3 days, advice should be sought from a doctor.\n\nGenerally, a splinter causes an initial feeling of pain as the sharp object makes its initial penetration through the body. Through this penetration, the object cuts through the cutaneous layer of the skin, and settles in the subcutaneous layer of the skin, and can even penetrate further down, breaking the sub-cutaneous layer, settling in muscle tissue, or even the bone. Some splinters will remain in place, but most will continue to migrate through the body, further damaging their surroundings.\n\nAccording to the AAFP, the most common foreign bodies contracted by people fall into two official classes: biological splinters, and nonbiological splinters. In the biological class, splinters include bone, fish spines, teeth, and wood. In the nonbiological class, common splinters contracted are glass, metal, aluminum, fishhooks, pencil graphite, and plastic.\n\nRarely, people may become infected with splinters from more unusual sources. Common cases of exotic foreign bodies include sea urchins, insect stings, stingray spines, and even grenade shrapnel.\n\n\nSplinters are often first detected by the person with the splinter in their body. There are many signs that a splinter has entered one’s body.\n\n\nMany times, if the presence in a body is not known, but only effects are felt, modern technologies will be employed. Depending on the type of foreign body the patient is infected with modern detectors can range from Computed Tomography, Radiography, and Ultrasonography. If manual detection and localization fail, such modern technologies may be utilized accordingly:\n\n\nThere are many medical techniques to remove splinters safely. Common medical techniques include the Elliptical Technique and the String Technique. In the elliptical technique the surrounding area of the splinter is sliced in an elliptical formation. From there the flesh in the elliptical area is cut (in the shape of an upside-down cone) and the whole chunk of flesh containing the splinter is removed. The Needle Cover Technique is limited to fishhook removal. A string is looped around the base of the hook, and as the hook is pressed further into the skin, the string is pulled, allowing the barbs to be unhooked from muscle and follow the path of the rest of the hook out of the body without snagging any additional flesh.\n\nInfection is usually determined by the duration of time that the foreign object remains lodged in the human body. Objects that have included poison, deep penetration, dirt, or bite injuries generally result in a shorter time until infection is notable. According to the AAFP patients that are older, or have diabetes, or have wounds that are longer, wider, more jagged or deeper, have a much higher risk of infection. Simply the easiest way to avoid infection is to completely remove the splinters or foreign body as soon as possible. \nThough infection is generally the largest complication encountered with splinters, ranging from 1.1 to 12 percent presence, the use of antibiotics in non-bite cases is generally deemed unnecessary by the medical community. Though cases are rare, infection of foreign body wounds can result in cases of tetanus.\n\nOne case of tetanus contraction through a splinter was seen in Ohio, 1993. An 80-year-old woman was presented to an ED with dysphagia and a stiff jaw. Not long after a preliminary checkup, a wood splinter was found to have been lodged in her chin for approximately 1 week; the area was erythematous with active purulent drainage. The woman was diagnosed with tetanus, admitted to the hospital, and begun on a regimen of 3,000 units of tetanus immune globulin, tetanus toxoid, and intravenous clindamycin. Despite aggressive treatment, including assisted mechanical ventilation, the patient succumbed to the effects of her primary infection and died 15 days later. The woman had no history of previous tetanus vaccinations despite previous care for a wound and on-going medical attention for hypertension.\n"}
{"id": "845591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=845591", "title": "Summit Tunnel fire", "text": "Summit Tunnel fire\n\nOn 20 December 1984 a dangerous goods train passing through the Summit Tunnel on the Greater Manchester/West Yorkshire border, caught fire on the rail line between Littleborough and Todmorden, England.\n\nThe tunnel, which is in length, was built in 1840-41. Twelve of the fourteen construction shafts, at intervals of approximately , were left open to help vent smoke and steam from the locomotives that passed through it.\n\nThe incident was one of a series of railway accidents during 1984, coming only days after the fatal collision between an express passenger train and a train of fuel oil tankers at Eccles, Greater Manchester on 4 December. One day earlier on 3 December a train guard had been killed after a collision between a diesel multiple unit and parcels vans at Longsight also in Manchester. This third serious railway accident in the North West of England in less than 3 weeks led the Littleborough and Saddleworth MP Geoffrey Dickens to call for an inquiry into railway safety, in particular with respect to the conveyance of dangerous chemicals such as those involved in the accidents at Eccles and Summit Tunnel.\n\nThe train involved was the 01:40 freight train from Haverton Hill, Teesside to oil distribution terminal in Merseyside. It was formed by class 47 diesel locomotive 47 125 and thirteen tankers.\n\nAt 05:50 on 20 December 1984, the train, carrying more than () of four-star petrol in thirteen tankers, entered the tunnel on the Yorkshire (north) side travelling at . One-third of the way through the tunnel, a defective axle bearing (journal bearing) derailed the fourth tanker, which caused the derailment of those behind. Only the locomotive and the first three tankers remained on the rails. One of the derailed tankers fell on its side and began to leak petrol into the tunnel. Vapour from the leaking petrol was probably ignited by the damaged axle box.\n\nThe three train crew members could see fire spreading through the ballast beneath the other track in the tunnel, so they left the train and ran the remaining mile to the south portal (where they knew there was a direct telephone connection to the signaller) to raise the alarm.\n\nCrews from Greater Manchester Fire Brigade and West Yorkshire Fire Brigade quickly attended the scene. Co-ordination between the brigades appears to have worked well, perhaps because they had both participated in an emergency exercise in the tunnel a month before.\n\nThe train crew were persuaded to return to the train, where they uncoupled the three tankers still on the rails and used the locomotive to drive them out. Greater Manchester fire brigade then loaded firefighting equipment onto track trolleys and sent a crew with breathing apparatus (BA) in to begin their firefighting operation at the south end of the train. They also lowered hoselines down one of the ventilation shafts to provide a water supply. At the same time, crews from West Yorkshire fire brigade entered the tunnel and began fighting fires in the ballast at the north end of the train.\n\nHowever, at 9.40 a.m., the pressure in one of the heated tankers rose high enough to open its pressure relief valves. The vented vapour caught fire and blew flames onto the tunnel wall. The wall deflected the flames both ways along the tunnel, and the bricks in the tunnel wall began to spall and melt in the flames. The BA crews from both brigades decided to evacuate. They managed to leave just before the first explosion rocked the tunnel.\n\nLeft to itself, the fire burned as hot as it could. As the walls warmed up and the air temperature in the tunnel rose, all 10 tankers discharged petrol vapour from their pressure relief valves. Two tankers melted (at approximately ) and discharged their remaining loads.\n\nThe fuel supply to the fire was so rich that some of the combustibles were unable to find oxygen inside the tunnel with which to burn; they were instead ejected from vent shafts 8 and 9 as fuel-rich gases that burst into flame when they encountered oxygen in the air outside. At the height of the fire, pillars of flame approximately high rose from the shaft outlets on the hillside above.\n\nThe gases are estimated to have flowed up these shafts at . Air at this speed is capable of blowing around heavy items: hot projectiles made from tunnel lining (rather like lava bombs from a volcano) were cast out over the hillside. These set much of the vegetation on fire, and caused the closure of the A6033 road. In the cleanup operation afterwards, small globules of metal were found on the ground surrounding shaft 9; these had been melted from the tanker walls, swept up with the exhaust gases, and dropped out onto the grass around the top of the shaft.\n\nUnable to get close enough to safely fight the fire directly, the fire brigades forced high-expansion foam into ventilation shafts far from the fire. This created blockages that starved the fire of oxygen. By mid-afternoon the next day, the inferno was no longer burning, though the fire was by no means knocked down. Petrol continued to leak from the derailed wagons through the tunnel drainage and ballast and the vapour sporadically reignited when it came into contact with the hot tunnel lining. Two hundred people were evacuated from their homes and workplaces in Walsden in response. They were allowed back home the next day.\n\nThe brigades continued to fight the fire for another two days, until West Yorkshire Fire Brigade issued the stop message just after 6:30 p.m. on Christmas Eve. Fire crews remained at the site until 7 January 1985.\n\nDue to the fire, the line between and was closed. Passenger trains between two stations were replaced by buses. Of the of petrol carried by the train, were rescued by the train crew when they drove the locomotive and the first three tankers to safety. A further of petrol were recovered after the fire was extinguished, and () burnt.\n\nThe damage done by the fire was minimal. Approximately half a mile of track had to be replaced, as did all the electrical services and signalling. The biggest surprise was how well the brick lining had stood up to the fire. Although some bricks in the tunnel and in the blast relief shafts had become so hot that they vitrified and ran like molten glass, most of the brickwork lining of the tunnel was scorched but still serviceable. One of the photographs taken in the aftermath shows a rail tanker directly beneath shaft 9: it is crowned with a mass of vitrified slag from bricks in the shaft that had melted and dripped down.\n\nThe last of the wagons was removed from the tunnel on 1 March 1985. Once British Rail had replaced the track and electrical services, shored up the bases of vent shafts 8 and 9 and filled the two shafts with inert foam (all this took eight months), locals were allowed a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to walk through the tunnel before train services resumed on 19 August 1985.\n\nThe Summit Tunnel fire is probably one of the biggest underground fires in transportation history, certainly bigger than the 1996 Channel Tunnel fire (a relatively meagre 350 megawatts) and probably bigger than the ill-defined Salang tunnel fire in Afghanistan. Only the Crozet tunnel accident (France, 20 March 1971) may have been bigger. The BR train crew who returned to the site to rescue a locomotive and three tankers left the fire site shortly before one of the other petrol tankers filled the tunnel with flames. The firefighters in BA sets who were in the tunnel when it filled with flames were saved because blast relief shafts 8 and 9 acted as flame vents (a function their designer never envisaged).\n\nAt the Masons Arms public house in Todmorden, there is a small collection of photographs noting the fire, along with the statistics of the construction, and a quotation by George Stephenson, the tunnel's builder, who said, \"I stake my reputation and my head that the tunnel will never fail so as to injure any human life\".\n\nA public enquiry was held into the accident. The hearing was held in Manchester. A report was published on 4 June 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46932677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46932677", "title": "The Big Picture Art Platform", "text": "The Big Picture Art Platform\n\nA non-profit art organization consists of an annual art exhibition as well as an expanded program of talks and collateral events in The United Arab Emirates. participating artists and curators for the juried exhibition are selected via an open call announced every December.\n\n\n\nOfficial Website\n"}
{"id": "42735017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42735017", "title": "The Messengers (TV series)", "text": "The Messengers (TV series)\n\nThe Messengers is an American television series that aired on The CW during the 2014–15 season. The series was officially picked up on May 8, 2014, and premiered on April 17, 2015. The series was cancelled by the CW on May 7, 2015, but aired all of its episodes, and concluded on July 24, 2015.\n\nA mysterious object plummets to Earth, sending out a shock wave that causes five strangers to die, only to miraculously come back to life moments later. The members of the group are Vera (Shantel VanSanten), a struggling radio-astronomer living in New Mexico who is searching for her missing son; Erin (Sofia Black-D'Elia), a young mother in Tucson, Arizona who is desperate to protect her seven-year-old daughter Amy from her abusive policeman ex-husband; Peter (Joel Courtney), a troubled high school student and orphan in Little Rock, Arkansas; Raul (J.D. Pardo), a federal agent in Mexico who is looking to escape his dangerous and violent undercover assignment; and Joshua (Jon Fletcher), a charismatic second-generation televangelist in Houston, Texas. Most mysterious of all is the figure known only as The Man (Diogo Morgado), who offers Vera the location of her abducted son if she will help him with one morally complicated task which puts her on a collision course with Rose (Anna Diop), a nurse in Houston who has been in a coma for seven years after being shot by an unknown hitman. Drawn together by fate and biblical prophecy, \"The Messengers\" soon learn they now have supernatural gifts that might be the only hope for preventing the impending Rapture.\n\nThe main characters of the series are the Messengers (real term: \"Angels of the Apocalypse\"), a group of ordinary humans chosen by God to determine if humanity is worth saving. They are hit by an energy wave from the meteorite that brought The Man to earth, which causes them to die for a few minutes. Then they awaken with strange supernatural abilities denominated as \"gifts\". However, their gifts have side-effects on their bodies unless the seven \"true\" Messengers are united.\n\n\n\nEvery generation there are four people who commit a grievous sin and are \"assigned\" to become the Horsemen of the Apocalypse. Rose Arvale, the Horseman of Death, is the leader of the current generation, and they want to use The Man's meteorite as their ultimate weapon for the end of humanity. In contrast to the angel Messengers, the Horsemen immediately become aware of their powers upon a seal being broken as well as their destiny, and about each other's identity. It is also implied that all four of them are telepathic (only to each other) and can read each other's minds.\n\n\n\"The Messengers\" has received mixed reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes gives the show a rating of 47% based on 17 reviews with an average rating of 5.6 out of 10. The site's consensus reads: \"\"The Messengers\" flashes bursts of potential, but ultimately sags beneath derivative, muddled storytelling\". Metacritic gave the show a score of 56 out of 100, based on 15 reviews, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\n\"The Messengers\" was scheduled to premiere on April 10, 2015, but was moved back a week to April 17, 2015. In Australia, the series premiered on FOX8 on June 3, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "8707018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8707018", "title": "The Moot", "text": "The Moot\n\n\"This article is about the discussion group active in Britain from 1938 to 1947. For the Moot in Games Workshop's Warhammer Fantasy fictional universe, see The Empire (Warhammer).\"\n\nThe Moot was a discussion group concerned with education, social reconstruction, and the role of culture in society. It was convened by J. H. Oldham, editor of the Christian Newsletter, and its participants were mainly Christian intellectuals. Karl Mannheim was a central figure in the group. Others who attended included T. S. Eliot, John Middleton Murry, Sir Fred Clarke, Michael Polanyi, Reinhold Niebuhr, Paul Tillich, Sir Walter Moberly, Professor John Baillie, Sir Hector Herrington, Geoffrey Vickers, A.R. Vidler, H. A. Hodges and Adolph Lowe. Catholic historian and independent scholar Christopher Dawson also contributed numerous written submissions, although he was able to attend only two meetings.\n\nThe discussion group grew out of a Conference on Church, Community and State held at Oxford in 1937.\n\n\"More than anything else, the discussions of the Moot revolved around the topic of order and, more particularly, around the problem of how order might be restored in British society and culture in the context of a ‘world turned upside down’.\" (Mullins and Jacobs, 2006)\n\nThe discussions influenced T.S. Eliot's works of cultural criticism \"The Idea of a Christian society\" and \"Notes towards the definition of culture\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26064319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26064319", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 554", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 554\n\nUnited Nations Security Council resolution 554, adopted on 17 August 1984, after recalling 473 (1980), the Council condemned the 1984 general election in South Africa and the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa Act (110 of 1983).\n\nThe Council stated that the constitution was against the United Nations Charter and declared the elections and constitution both null and void as it would further entrench minority rule in the country. The resolution also urged Member States and international organisations not to accord recognition to the elections, stating that the total eradication of apartheid and the establishment of democracy in South Africa would lead to a just and lasting solution to the \"explosive situation\" in the country.\n\nThe resolution, which required the Secretary-General to monitor its implementation, was approved by 13 votes to none against, while the United Kingdom and United States abstained from voting. \n\n"}
{"id": "30104163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30104163", "title": "Website correlation", "text": "Website correlation\n\nWebsite correlation, or website matching, is a process used to identify websites that are similar or related. Websites are inherently easy to duplicate. This led to proliferation of identical websites or very similar websites for purposes ranging from translation to Internet marketing (especially affiliate marketing) to Internet crime Locating similar websites is inherently problematic because they may be in different languages, on different servers, in different countries (different top-level domains).\n\nWebsite correlation is used in:\n\nThere are several known types of correlation, each demonstrating different strengths and weaknesses. A practical website correlation process may require combining two or more of these methods.\n\nTo save time and effort, website owners duplicate major portions of website code across many domains. Similarity of code structure can provide enough information for correlation. Organizations known to have a publicly search-able databases for this kind of correlation include:\n\nnote: Websites can sometimes utilize the same structure but have no relationship to each other (as when websites coincidentally utilize the same content management system).\n\nAlso known as correlated Reverse DNS lookup. Websites may be served from the same server, on one or more ip address, on one or more subnet. Several organizations retain archives of ip address data and correlate the data. Examples include:\nnote: Correlation via this method may be misleading because websites frequently exist on the same server (aka shared hosting) but have no relationship to each other.\n\nWebsites may be authored by the same person or organization. Website owners are required to provide contact information to a registrar to obtain a domain name. Domain ownership can be determined via the WHOIS protocol which provides no mechanism for searching or correlating ownership. Several organizations retain archives of WHOIS information and provide searching and correlation services. Examples include:\n\nnote: Website ownership information can be \"falsified\", \"outdated\", or \"hidden from public view\". Website Correlation via this method can be accurate, misleading, or impossible depending on the information contained in WHOIS records.\n\nSearch engines provide search-able databases of indexed website content. Search engine results lists are correlated by content similarity.\n\nnote: This method of correlation is \"inherently slow\" because one must guess which phrases to search for. Also, related websites may not contain literally similar content (as when a site is translated into another language).\n\nWebsites are frequently categorized or tagged similarly via automated or manual means. Examples of publicly accessible website categorization databases include:\n\nnote: Manual Categorization and tag (metadata) methods are inherently subjective. Automated categorization and tagging methods are inherently subject to the varying weaknesses and strengths of underlying categorization algorithms.\n\nTracking IDs, used for analytics or affiliate identification are frequently embedded in website code. These ids can be used for correlation because they imply common management of websites. Publicly available websites for correlating by tracking id include:\n"}
{"id": "54459290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54459290", "title": "X-Ray Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission", "text": "X-Ray Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission\n\nThe X-Ray Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission (XRISM), formerly named the X-ray Astronomy Recovery Mission (XARM, pronounced \"charm\"), is an X-ray astronomy satellite of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) to provide breakthroughs in the study of structure formation of the universe, outflows from galaxy nuclei, and dark matter. As the only international X-ray observatory project of its period, XRISM will function as a next generation space telescope in the X-ray astronomy field, similar to how the James Webb Space Telescope, Fermi Space Telescope, and the ALMA Observatory are placed in their respective fields. The mission will crosslink X-ray telescopes of the present (Chandra, XMM-Newton) with that of the future (ATHENA, Lynx/X-Ray Surveyor), thus preventing the formation of a blank period in X-ray astronomy in the early 2020s resulting from the loss of \"Hitomi\". During its formulation, XRISM/XARM was also known as the \"ASTRO-H Successor\", \"ASTRO-H2\".\n\nWith the retirement of \"Suzaku\" in August 2015, and the detectors onboard Chandra X-ray Observatory and XMM-Newton operating for more than 15 years and gradually aging, the failure of \"Hitomi\" meant that X-ray astronomers will have a 12-year blank period in soft X-ray observation, until the launch of ATHENA (which according to ISAS director general Saku Tsuneta is a \"super ASTRO-H\") in 2028. This may result in a major setback for the international community, as there will be no telescope to cover the most important part of X-ray astronomy, when in other wavelengths the operation of large scale observatories, such as the James Webb Space Telescope and the Thirty Meter Telescope will commence. A lack of missions could also deprive young astronomers a chance to gain hands-on experience from participating in a project. For these reasons, as well as to recover the science that was to be gained from \"Hitomi\", the XRISM project began. The XRISM mission has been recommended by ISAS's Advisory Council for Research and Management, the High Energy AstroPhysics Association in Japan, NASA Astrophysics Subcommittee, NASA Science Committee, NASA Advisory Council. With a planned launch in March 2021, XRISM will recover the science that was lost with \"Hitomi\", such as the structure formation of the universe, feedback from galaxies/active galaxy nuclei, and the history of material circulation from stars to galaxy clusters. The space telescope will also serve as a technology demonstrator for the European ATHENA (Advanced Telescope for High Energy Astrophysics) telescope. Multiple space agencies, including NASA and the European Space Agency (ESA) are participating in the mission. In Japan, the project is led by JAXA's Institute of Space and Astronautical Science (ISAS) division, and the U.S. participation is led by NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC). The U.S. contribution is expected to cost around $80 million, which is about the same amount as the contribution to \"Hitomi\".\n\nA team of astronomers from GSFC suggests pairing the XARM satellite with a source satellite containing radioactive sources. XRISM will observe the source sat to conduct absolute calibration of its telescopes, thus functioning as a in-orbit X-ray \"standard candle\". With its broad effective area, the telescope could potentially establish several standard candles in the sky by observing constant celestial sources. If this concept proves successful, later missions such as ATHENA and Lynx may have their own source sats.\n\nThe X-ray Imaging and Spectroscopy Mission will be one of the first projects for ISAS to place a separate Project Manager (PM) and a Primary Investigator (PI). This measure was taken as part of ISAS's reform in project management to prevent the recurrence of the \"Hitomi\" accident. In traditional ISAS missions, the PM was also responsible for tasks that would typically be allocated to PI's in a NASA mission.\n\nWhile \"Hitomi\" had an array of instruments spanning from soft X-ray to soft gamma ray, XRISM will focus around the Resolve instrument (equivalent to \"Hitomi\" SXS), as well as Xtend (SXI), which has a high affinity to Resolve. The elimination of a hard X-ray telescope is based on the launch of NASA's NuSTAR satellite, a development that wasn't put to consideration when the NeXT proposal was initially formulated. NuSTAR's spatial and energy resolution is analogous to \"Hitomi\" hard X-ray instruments. Once the operation of XRISM starts, collaborative observations with NuSTAR will likely be essential. Meanwhile, the scientific value of the soft and hard X-ray band width boundary has been noted; therefor the option of upgrading XRISM's instruments to be partially capable of hard X-ray observation is under consideration. Furthermore, a hard X-ray telescope proposal with abilities surpassing \"Hitomi\" has also been proposed. The \"FORCE\" (Focusing On Relativistic universe and Cosmic Evolution) space telescope is a candidate for the next ISAS competitive medium class mission. If selected, FORCE is to be launched after the mid 2020s, with an eye towards conducting simultaneous observations with ATHENA.\n\nFollowing the premature termination of the \"Hitomi\" mission, on 14 June 2016 JAXA announced their proposal to rebuild the satellite. The XARM pre-project preparation team was formed in October 2016. In the U.S. side, formulation is to begin in the summer of 2017. In June 2017, ESA announced that they will participate in XRISM as a mission of opportunity.\n\nXRISM will carry two instruments for studying the soft X-ray energy range, Resolve and Xtend. The satellite will have telescopes for each of the instruments, SXT-I (Soft X-ray Telescope for Imager) and SXT-S (Soft X-ray Telescope for Spectrometer). The pair of telescopes will have a focal length of .\n\nResolve is a X-ray micro calorimeter. The instrument will likely not be a complete remanufacture of \"Hitomi\" SXS, as there are some space-qualified hardware left from developing SXS, and these spare parts may be utilized to build Resolve.\n\nXtend is a X-ray CCD camera. Unlike Resolve, which will be a \"built-to-print\" version of its predecessor, Xtend differs in that its energy resolution will be improved from \"Hitomi\" SXI.\n\n\n"}
