{"id": "48011262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48011262", "title": "Al-Abbas ibn Ahmad ibn Tulun", "text": "Al-Abbas ibn Ahmad ibn Tulun\n\nAl-ʿAbbās ibn Aḥmad ibn Ṭūlūn was the eldest son of the founder of the Tulunid dynasty, Ahmad ibn Tulun, and heir-apparent until his failed attempt to usurp his father in 879. After a failed attempt to take over Ifriqiya, he was imprisoned in Egypt and executed shortly after the succession of his brother, Khumarawayh, in May 884.\n\nAbbas was the eldest son of Ahmad ibn Tulun, the son of a Turkish slave who had ruled Egypt since 868. By exploiting the dissensions in the Abbasid Caliphate between Caliph al-Mu'tamid and his brother al-Muwaffaq, Ibn Tulun soon managed to establish his autonomy from the Abbasid government, and proceeded to expand his control over Syria as well. Preoccupied with the conquest of Syria, Ibn Tulun appointed Abbas as his deputy in Egypt. Within a short time, however, his entourage persuaded him to try and seize power for himself. Forewarned by the vizier al-Wasiti, Ibn Tulun returned from Syria in April 879 and thwarted his son's ambitions. Taking the treasury with him, Abbas and his supporters—as well as an armed force numbering some 800 cavalry and 10,000 black African infantry—fled first to Alexandria and then to Barqa. Ibn Tulun tried to persuade him to return and even offered him a pardon, but Abbas refused.\n\nInstead, he resolved to take over Ifriqiya by invading it with his army, augmented by local contingents on the way, and deposing the local Aghlabid dynasty. To legitimize his move, Abbas claimed that he had received nomination as Ifriqiya's governor by al-Mu'tamid, but the Aghlabid emir Ibrahim II responded by sending a cavalry force to meet him. Abbas defeated the local Aghlabid governor, Muhammad ibn Qurhub, sacked the town of Labda, and marched on Tripoli. The Ibadite leader and governor of Tripoli and Jabal Nafusa, Ilyas ibn Mansur al-Nafusi, mobilized resistance to the invader. His 12,000–strong army defeated Abbas in winter 880/1.\n\nAbbas, with the remnants of his army, fled east and was defeated and captured outside Alexandria by troops loyal to his father. Brought as a prisoner to the Egyptian capital, Fustat, he was publicly paraded seated on a mule, and was commanded to execute or mutilate the most prominent of his followers, who were held responsible for urging him to rebel, by gouging their eyes and cutting off their arms. Ibn Tulun reportedly had hoped that his son might refuse this command, and was dismayed when Abbas complied. Weeping at Abbas's cruelty and untrustworthiness, Ibn Tulun ordered him flogged and imprisoned. His place in the succession was taken up by his younger brother Khumarawayh in 882. When Ibn Tulun died in May 884, Khumarawayh, enjoying the backing of the Tulunid elites, succeeded him without trouble, and Abbas was executed.\n\n"}
{"id": "55585410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55585410", "title": "Alexander Halpern", "text": "Alexander Halpern\n\nAleksandr Yakovelich Galpern (; 1879—28 June 1956), also known as Alexander Halpern, was a Russian Menshevik politician and attorney, who played a significant part in the Russian Revolution. He was a member of the Grand Orient of the Peoples of Russia and sat in Alexander Kerensky's Russian Provisional Government. Following the October Revolution, he fled abroad to the United Kingdom. During the Second World War, Halpern worked in British service as an MI6 agent in the United States, as part of British Security Co-ordination.\n\nHalpern was born into a family of Russian Jews in St. Petersburg. His father, Yakov Markovich Halpern (1840-1914) was a prominent official of the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Empire and a lawyer. Halpern graduated from the Faculty of Law of St. Petersburg University and became an attorney at St. Petersburg. Politically, Halpern was aligned with the Menshevik-wing of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party. He worked as a legal adviser to the British Embassy in St. Petersburg, working with a number of British and American firms.\n\nHe joined an irregular freemasonic lodge; the Grand Orient of the Russian Peoples; upon the recommendation of Alexander Kerensky and Bruno Germanovič Lopatin-Bart. He sat as a member of the Supreme Council of the Grand Orient from 1912 to 1917 and was the Secretary General of the Supreme Council of the Grand Orient from 1916 to 1917.\nIn February 1917 he replaced Vladimir Dmitrievich Nabokov as manager of the affairs of the Russian Provisional Government and held this post until the overthrow of the Provisional Government in October 1917 during the October Revolution. He was associated with the failed Committee for Salvation of Motherland and Revolution. Until the end of 1918, he lived covertly in Moscow and Petrograd, before fleeing first to Paris and then to London.\n\nIn 1928 he gave an interview about Freemasonry to Boris Nikolayevsky, later published in the book \"Russian Masons and Revolution.\" He married Salomea Andronikova; for a long time the couple lived separately, Halpern in London, and his wife in Paris. The two reunited in the United Kingdom only in the 1940s.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Halpern lived in New York City in the United States, working for British Intelligence (British Security Co-ordination). The project was set up in 1940 by the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) under the approval of Winston Churchill. The primary objective of the operation was to change the American public mood from one of isolationism to intervention in the war. While there he maintained contact with old Mensheviks such as Boris Nicolaevsky, Irakli Tsereteli, Raphael Abramovitch and others, who collaborated in \"The Socialist Herald\".\n\nAfter the war he returned to England, where he lived with his wife in a house at 39 Chelsea Park Gardens in the affluent area of Chelsea, London. One of the rooms in the Halpern house was handed over to Anna Kallin (1896-1984), a mistress of Oskar Kokoschka who worked for the British Broadcasting Corporation as a producer. While in London, Halpern was well acquainted with personalities such as Isaiah Berlin, Moura Budberg, Anthony Blunt and Zinovy Peshkov. Halpern was for a long time the chairman of the ORT UK. He died in 1956.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6650137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6650137", "title": "Alton Coleman", "text": "Alton Coleman\n\nAlton Coleman (November 6, 1955 – April 26, 2002) was an American spree killer, along with accomplice Debra Brown, who committed a crime spree across six states in the Midwest where 8 people were murdered between May and July 1984. Coleman, who received death sentences from three states, was executed by the state of Ohio in 2002. Brown was also sentenced to death in Indiana, but the death penalty was commuted to life imprisonment without possibility of parole in Illinois.\n\nAlton Coleman was born on November 6, 1955, in Waukegan, Illinois. Coleman's mother worked three jobs, and he lived with his 73-year-old grandmother in Waukegan. A middle-school drop-out, Coleman was well known to the Illinois law enforcement community, having been charged with sex crimes six times between 1973 and 1983. Two of the cases were dismissed, with Coleman pleading guilty to lesser charges in two and was twice acquitted. Coleman was scheduled to go on trial in Illinois on charges stemming from the rape of a 14-year-old girl when he fled and began his killing spree.\n\nColeman was diagnosed with mixed personality disorder with antisocial, narcissistic and obsessive features, with additional diagnoses including epileptic spasms, psychosis and borderline personality disorder.\n\nDebra Brown, one of 11 children, is borderline intellectually disabled, suffered head trauma as a child, and a psychiatrist diagnosed her with dependent personality disorder.\n\nBrown was engaged to another man when she met Coleman in 1983, but left her family and moved in with him shortly afterwards. Although a willing participant in the assaults and murders, Brown had no history of violence, or any record of trouble with the law until she met Coleman.\n\nColeman and Brown committed their first crime when they killed nine-year-old Vernita Wheat from Kenosha, Wisconsin. Coleman had befriended her mother, Juanita Wheat, and on May 29, 1984, Coleman abducted Vernita and took her to Waukegan. Vernita's badly decomposed corpse was discovered on June 19, 1984 in an abandoned building four blocks from Coleman's grandmother's apartment. It was determined she had been raped, and the cause of death was ligature strangulation.\n\nOn May 31, 1984, Coleman befriended Robert Carpenter in Waukegan and spent the night at his home. The next day he borrowed Carpenter's car to go to the store and never returned.\n\nIn June 1984, Coleman and Brown were in Gary, Indiana and encountered two young girls there, nine-year-old Annie and her niece, seven-year-old Tamika Turks. Both Coleman and Brown had sexually assaulted Tamika and Annie (who survived), and on June 19, Tamika's partially decomposed body was discovered. The day that the body of Tamika Turks was found, Donna Williams, a 25-year-old woman from Gary, disappeared. On July 11, Williams's badly decomposed body was discovered in Detroit, Michigan about half a mile from where her car was found. She had been raped and killed by ligature strangulation.\n\nOn June 28, Coleman and Brown entered the home of Mr. and Mrs. Palmer-Jones of Dearborn Heights, Michigan, whom they beat severely. Coleman ripped the telephone from their wall before stealing money and their car.\n\nOn July 5, Coleman and Brown arrived in Toledo, Ohio, where Coleman befriended Virginia Temple, the mother of several children. Temple had stopped communicating with her relatives, and concerned about the welfare of her children, they entered Temple's home and found the young children alone and frightened. Temple and her eldest child, 9-year-old Rachelle, had been strangled to death, and their bodies were discovered in a crawl space. The same morning as the murders of Virginia Temple and her daughter, Coleman and Brown entered the home of Frank and Dorothy Duvendack in Toledo, where Coleman bound the couple with appliance and phone cords which had been cut, taking money and their car. One of Mrs. Duvendack's watches was stolen, and later found under another victim. Later that same day, Coleman and Brown visited the Dayton, Ohio home of Reverend Millard Gay and his wife Kathryn. The two stayed with the Gays and accompanied them to a religious service on July 9, where the next day the Gays dropped off Coleman and Brown in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio.\n\nOn July 12, Tonnie Storey, a 15-year-old girl who lived in the Over-the-Rhine neighborhood of Cincinnati disappeared, and eight days later her raped and murdered body was discovered. A bracelet that had been stolen from the Temples in Toledo was found under Storey's body. Coleman and Brown were later convicted of the rape and murder of Storey, and sentenced to death for it, but Brown's death sentence was commuted, and later, in a separate proceeding, Coleman's sentence of death was overturned.\n\nOn July 12, the FBI added Coleman to its Ten Most Wanted List as a \"special addition\". Coleman was just the tenth person since the initiation of the list in 1950 to merit inclusion in such a manner.\n\nColeman and Brown bicycled into Norwood on July 13 at about 9:30 a.m. Less than three hours later, they drove away in a car belonging to Harry Walters, who was unconscious, and his wife, Marlene, 43, who had been raped and beaten to death. Harry Walters survived and later testified that Coleman and Brown inquired about a camper he had offered for sale. While Walters sat on the couch and discussed the trailer title with Coleman, Coleman picked up a wooden candlestick and, after admiring it, hit Walters on the back of the head with it. The impact of the blow broke the candlestick and drove a chunk of bone against Mr. Walters' brain, and he remembered little else of the incident beyond that point. Sheri Walters, Harry and Marlene's daughter, returned home from work at about 3:45 p.m., where she found her mother dead at the bottom of the basement steps, and her father still alive. Both had ligatures around their throats and electrical cords tied around their bare feet, her father's hands were handcuffed behind his back, while her mother's hands were bound behind her back and her head was covered with a bloody sheet. The coroner indicated Marlene Walters had been bludgeoned on the head approximately 20 to 25 times, with twelve lacerations, some of which were made with a pair of locking pliers, covered her face and scalp. The back of her skull was crushed to pieces, and parts of her skull and brain were missing. The living room hallway and basement were splattered with blood, and shards of a broken soda bottle, bearing Coleman's fingerprints, were found in the living room. Strands of Marlene Walters' hair were found on a bloodstained magazine rack located in the living room, and bloody footprints made by two different kinds of shoes were found in the basement. The Walters' car, a red Plymouth Reliant, was missing, as well as money, jewelry, and shoes which had been stolen. Two bicycles, clothes and shoes not belonging to the Walters had been left behind.\n\nTwo days later, the Walters's Plymouth Reliant was found abandoned in Kentucky, where the couple had kidnapped Oline Carmical, Jr., a college professor from Williamsburg, and drove back to Dayton with Carmical locked in the trunk of his car. On July 17, they abandoned this stolen vehicle in Dayton, Ohio, and Carmical, who was still locked in the trunk, was rescued by authorities. Coleman and Brown later received 20-year sentences for a Federal kidnapping charge for bringing Carmical across a state line.\n\nColeman and Brown returned to the home of Reverend and Mrs. Gay in Dayton. Reverend Gay recognized Coleman, who at this time was the subject of a huge nationwide manhunt, and Coleman accosted Millard and Kathryn with guns. Reverend Gay asked Coleman, \"Why you want to do us like that, like this?\", and according to Gay, Coleman responded: \"I'm not going to kill you, but we generally kill them where we go.\" Coleman and Brown took their car and headed back toward Evanston, Illinois. Along the way, they stole another car in Indianapolis and killed its owner, 75-year-old Eugene Scott.\n\nOn July 17, 1984, Alton Coleman became the 388th fugitive listed by the FBI on its Ten Most Wanted list.\n\nThree days later, on July 20, Coleman and Brown were arrested in Evanston, Illinois. As Coleman and Brown walked westward across an intersection, they passed immediately in front of a man in a car stopped at the red light who was from Coleman's neighborhood in Waukegan. He recognized Coleman and drove north to a gas station and notified the police. A description of the two was broadcast to police. As officers entered the area, a detective saw Coleman and Brown sitting on portable bleachers in empty Mason Park, but noted they were wearing different T-shirts. As the detective reported this, two sergeants who were driving by the park heard this, turned, and saw Coleman and Brown. As they approached Coleman, the officers observed Brown walking away from Coleman toward the rear of the park. The detective joined the two sergeants and Coleman was approached for questioning; he had no identification and denied he was Alton Coleman. Meanwhile, two other officers stopped Brown as she tried to exit the park, searched her, and found a gun in her purse. The pair were taken into custody without incident and transported to the Evanston Police Department, where both were identified by their fingerprints.\nIn the Evanston police station, Coleman was strip-searched and a steak knife was found between two pairs of sweat socks he was wearing. When taken into custody, they had a shopping bag full of varied T-shirts and caps. Officers learned that the pair stopped every three to four blocks as they walked and changed shirts and caps. A week after they were arrested, more than 50 law enforcement officials from Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan, Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio met to plan their strategy for prosecuting Coleman and Brown, as the two had committed crimes within each state. Desiring the death penalty for Coleman and Brown, Michigan was quickly ruled out because it did not employ capital punishment. Eventually it was decided to give Ohio the first attempt at sentencing, with U.S. Attorney Dan K. Webb stating, \"We are convinced that prosecution (in Ohio) can most quickly and most likely result in the swiftest imposition of the death penalty against Alton Coleman and Debra Brown\".\n\nThe state of Ohio convicted Coleman and Brown, finding them guilty of the rape and murder of Tonnie Storey in Cincinnati and Marlene Walters in Norwood, but not for the murder of Virginia Temple and Rachelle Temple in Toledo. Coleman and Brown were both sentenced to death and the appeals process began. Coleman's case was sent to the U.S. Supreme Court several times between 1985 and 2002, but his numerous arguments that his conviction and death sentence were unconstitutional failed to sway the justices.\n\nOn April 25, 2002, the Ohio Supreme Court rejected a claim by Coleman's attorneys that the state's plan to accommodate the large number of victims and survivors who wanted to view the execution would turn it into a \"spectator sport\". So many victims and survivors of Coleman's crimes were allowed to witness the execution that prison officials had to set up a closed-circuit viewing venue outside of the building. For his last meal, Coleman ordered a well-done filet mignon smothered with mushrooms, fried chicken breasts, a salad with French dressing, sweet potato pie topped with whipped cream, French fries, collard greens, onion rings, cornbread, broccoli with melted cheese, biscuits and gravy, and Cherry Coke. On April 26, 2002, reciting Psalm 23, Alton Coleman was executed by lethal injection in the death chamber at the Southern Ohio Correctional Facility in Lucasville, Ohio. Reginald Wilkinson, director of the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction, said Coleman had not directly expressed remorse for the killings, but that he had \"admitted what he's done in his own convoluted way.\"\n\nColeman had received two death sentences from Ohio, and one apiece from Illinois and Indiana. At the time of his execution, he was the only condemned person in the United States to have death sentences in three states.\n\nBrown, who was originally sentenced to be executed in Ohio for her complicity in the crimes, had her death sentence commuted to life in prison by Governor Richard Celeste in 1991. In commuting Brown's sentence, Governor Celeste cited her low IQ scores, ranging from 59 to 74, and her \"master-slave\" relationship with Coleman influencing her actions. Brown was one of eight Ohio death row inmates (including all four of the Ohio's female death row inmates) to have her sentence commuted by Celeste, a staunch opponent of capital punishment, a week before he left office. Despite her non-violent history before the spree, Brown was initially unrepentant for her acts. During the sentencing phase of her first Ohio trial, Brown sent a note to the judge which read in part: \"I killed the bitch and I don't give a damn. I had fun out of it.\" She still has a death sentence for the murder of Tamika Turks which the two committed in Indiana. However, Brown is serving her sentence without possibility of parole at the Dayton Correctional Institution in Dayton, Ohio.\n\nBrown finally showed remorse for her crimes when she apologized to the families of her and Coleman's victims in a video in 2005.\n\nSome authorities believe that Coleman and Brown (who are both African-American) usually selected African-American victims because they knew they would blend in better in the black community and that their crimes lacked a racial motive. However, on page 184 in \"The Anatomy of Motive\", John E. Douglas, a retired FBI profiler, mentions that Coleman, in the middle of a vicious sexual assault, \"went into a practically incoherent tirade about how blacks were forcing him to rape and murder other blacks, as if that could somehow explain and justify his actions.\" Coleman and Brown left a racist slogan - 'I hate niggers. Death' - written in lipstick at the scene of the rape and murder of Tonnie Storey, one of their victims who was not African-American.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24159763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24159763", "title": "Arthur W. Adamson", "text": "Arthur W. Adamson\n\nArthur Wilson Adamson (1919–2003) was an American chemist who is considered a pioneer in inorganic photochemistry. His research made significant contributions to the understanding of physical adsorption and contact angle phenomena, and the thermodynamics of surfaces and irreversible adsorption. Born to American missionaries in Shanghai, China, he received his B.S. in chemistry at the University of California at Berkeley in 1940 and his Ph.D. in physical chemistry at the University of Chicago in 1944. After two years as a research associate for the Manhattan Project in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, he began a career at the University of Southern California that extended through his appointment as professor emeritus in 1989. He chaired the USC Department of Chemistry from 1972 to 1975.\n\n\nIn 1992, the ACS established the Arthur W. Adamson Award for Distinguished Service in the Advancement of Surface Chemistry.\n\nHe was founding editor of \"Langmuir\", the ACS Journal of Surfaces and Colloids, and he was chairman of the ACS Division of Colloid and Surface Chemistry.\n\nBooks authored include:\n\n"}
{"id": "27574976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27574976", "title": "Assassination of Hrant Dink", "text": "Assassination of Hrant Dink\n\nThe prominent Turkish-Armenian journalist Hrant Dink was assassinated in Istanbul on 19 January 2007. Dink was a newspaper editor who had written and spoken about the Armenian Genocide, and was well known for his efforts for reconciliation between Turks and Armenians and his advocacy of human and minority rights in Turkey. At the time of his death, he was on trial for violating Article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code and \"denigrating Turkishness\". His murder sparked both massive national protests in Turkey itself as well as widespread international outrage.\n\nDink had long endured threats by extreme Turkish nationalists for his statements on Armenian identity and the Armenian Genocide. He regularly received emails threatening his life, responding in one instance by comparing himself to a dove, \"equally obsessed by what goes on on my left and right, front and back. My head is just as mobile and fast\". He complained about the indifference of the Turkish government to this atmosphere of terror: \"Do you ministers know the price of making someone as scared as a dove?\"\n\nIn his final \"Agos\" column on 10 January 2007, Dink noted that propaganda targeting him led many Turkish citizens to consider him an enemy of Turkey:\nHe also complained of the indifference of Turkish authorities to his security:\nDespite his complaints, Dink never formally requested protection from the authorities because he did not want to lead a sheltered life. His lawyer, Erdal Doğan, confirmed this feeling of Dink. A week before his assassination, Dink wrote that he felt \"nervous and afraid\" owing to the intensity of the hate mail he had been receiving: \"I see myself as frightened, the way a dove might be, but I know that the people in this country would never harm a dove.\"\n\nDink was assassinated in Istanbul at around 12:00 GMT on 19 January 2007 as he returned to the offices of \"Agos\". The killer was reported to have introduced himself as an Ankara University student who wanted to meet with Mr. Dink. When his request was rejected, he waited in front of a nearby bank for a while. According to eyewitnesses, Dink was shot by a man of 25 to 30 years of age, who fired three shots at Dink's head from the back at point blank range before fleeing the scene on foot. According to the police, the assassin was a man of 18 to 19 years of age. Two men had been taken into custody in the first hours of the police investigation, but were later released. Another witness, the owner of a restaurant near the \"Agos\" office, said the assassin looked about 20, wore jeans and a cap and shouted \"I shot the infidel\" as he left the scene. Dink's friend Orhan Alkaya suggested that the three-shot assassination technique was a signature mark of the Kurdish Hezbollah. Dink's wife and daughter collapsed when they heard the news, and were taken to the hospital.\n\nOne day after the assassination, the police announced that the shooter had been identified in video footage collected through both the Istanbul MOBESE electronic surveillance network (4,000+ cameras throughout the city) and local security cameras. They later released photos to the public while urging every citizen to aid with the investigation. On the same evening, Istanbul Governor Muammer Güler addressed the press to state that special investigation committees were pursuing nearly two dozen leads and that the police were analyzing ten thousand phone calls made from the vicinity of the crime scene.\n\nNews agencies reported on Saturday, 18:22 GMT, that the shooter had been identified as \"Ogün Samast\", a teenager born in 1990 and registered as residing in Trabzon, the same city where, a year before Dink's assassination, the Catholic priest Andrea Santoro was shot dead by a 16-year-old native of the city, in front of the church of Santa Maria of Trabzon, which is a nationalist gathering center. In recent years, Trabzon has become an important recruiting place for ultra-nationalist movement. Samast's father identified him from the publicly released photos and alerted the authorities. Six people, including Samast's friend Yasin Hayal, who had been involved in a bombing of a McDonald's restaurant in Trabzon in 2004, were taken into custody and brought to Istanbul. Later that evening at 19:55 GMT, news of Samast's capture in Samsun was announced. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan confirmed that the alleged assassin Ogün Samast had been captured, with the assassination weapon on him.\n\nDink's funeral service was held on 23 January 2007 in the Surp Asdvadzadzin Patriarchal Church in the Kumkapı neighborhood of Istanbul. Dink's funeral ceremony developed into a demonstration at which a hundred thousand citizens marched in protest of the killing.\n\nThe service was attended by members of the Turkish government and representatives from the Armenian diaspora, as well as religious leaders. Although Turkey had no official diplomatic relations with Armenia at that time, by invitation of the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs Abdullah Gül, the Armenian Deputy Foreign Minister Arman Kirakosian was present at the funeral. Prime Minister Erdoğan was not present at the funeral, because he had to attend the scheduled inauguration of the Mount Bolu Tunnel.\n\nAfter the church services, the hearse made a final tour for the thousands of marchers still gathered at Yenikapı, before proceeding to Balıklı Armenian Cemetery in Istanbul's Zeytinburnu neighborhood, where Dink's body was laid to rest. At the cemetery Rev. Krikor Agabaloglu (Pastor of the Armenian Evangelical Church of Gedikpaşa) and Rev. Rene Levonian (Armenian Evangelical World Council's representative) delivered short speeches in Turkish and in Armenian.\n\nThe funeral astonished and changed the thoughts of some diaspora Armenians about Turkey. For example, Isabelle Kortian, an important diaspora (French) Armenian who came to Turkey for the funeral of Hrant Dink, wrote an article for a Turkish newspaper Zaman on 25 January 2007 saying \"The Turks' embracing Dink made an effect of an earthquake on us\".\n\nThe Istanbul Criminology Department stated that from the empty shells, they were able to determine that the assassination weapon used 7.65 millimeter ammunition and had never been used in another crime.\n\nAhmet Çokçınar, a prosecutor in the city of Samsun told the Anatolia news agency that Samast has confessed to killing Hrant Dink. According to this preliminary news, Samast said the killing was a personal act and did not have any organizational agenda. Samast's uncle Faik Samast has told private NTV television that he didn't think his nephew was capable of acting alone – \"He didn't even know his way around Istanbul,\" \"This kid was used.\" Samast said that he killed Dink for \"insulting Turks\", and that he doesn't regret it. According to media reports, Samast is a high school dropout and a possible drug addict. Later news reports stated that Samast had had no idea of the significance of his act until watching TV coverage, and that he had ended his written confession with an expression of remorse.\n\nThree people were taken into custody regarding the murder on the day of the killing. However, movements tied to the ultra-nationalist movement are currently suspected of carrying out the murder, in particular after the arrest of Yasin Hayal, a militant who spent 11 months in prison for having taken part in the bombing of a McDonald's in Trabzon in 2004, and of Karadeniz Technical University student Erhan Tuncel, who was close to the Alperen organization, the neo-fascist youth organization associated with the ultra-nationalist and Islamist party Great Union Party (BBP), created by former members of the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP). Yasin Hayal confessed to telling Samast to kill Dink and supplying the murder weapon, while Erhan Tuncel has been charged as a main instigator of the killing, and allegedly directed both Samast and Hayal. The BBP has denied any involvement in the assassination. Hrant Dink was described as a \"traitor\" by the Turkish far right, and had received up to 2,600 death threats from ultra-nationalist circles. According to rumors reported by Turkish newspapers in late January 2007, Erhan Tuncel was actually a police informer for the Trabzon Police. The rumors also suggested that he warned Trabzon police office before the murder, but that the warnings were ignored.\n\nInvestigations concerning the nationalist underground Ergenekon network have led to suspicions concerning Ergenekon's involvement in Dink's assassination. Folder 441 of the Ergenekon indictment's annex contains evidence that Dink's entire family was targeted. Staff colonel Ferhat Özsoy allegedly pressured chief master sergeant Murat Şahan into carrying out the assassination, offering him 300,000 Lira in reward. Şahan, who was undergoing psychiatric treatment as a result of being 70,000 Lira in debt, resisted and filed a complaint from a military hospital, where he was forced to undergo an examination.\n\nOn 3 October 2007, the TV station NTV reported that the police file on Erhan Tuncel, a prime suspect in the murder case, had been destroyed on the grounds that the file was a \"state secret\" before the court had a chance to see the document.\n\nThe lawyer for the Dink family, Erdal Doğan, repeated the concern that much evidence was destroyed and lost that might reveal relationships between the suspects and members of the security forces, including a tape from a security camera outside a bank near the Agos offices where Dink was killed. Doğan said that the chief of police intelligence (), Ramazan Akyürek, ordered the expungement of a suspect's 48-page testimony.\n\nWhen the lawyers of the Dink family investigated the security camera records which were screening the street where the assassination took place, they identified four suspects speaking with their cellphones. Thereupon they requested the GSM call operation logs of the Şişli region Turkish Telecommunication Authorities around the time when the murder happened and the time where they identified the cell phone usage from the security cameras. Two major GSM providers reported that they do not have any GSM base station in that region, hence they cannot identify anything. The other major GSM operator in Turkey stated that there was no single call operation during the reported times. The lawyers stated that it is almost impossible that there cannot have been any calls during these hours or that the companies cannot have any base station, because Şişli is one of the most crowded regions in Istanbul at those times. In addition the security camera recordings shows that there was gsm communication indeed during that times.\n\nIn 2013 a secret witness told prosecutors of JITEM and Gendarmerie involvement in Dink's murder.\n\nOn 12 January 2015, arrest warrants were issued for two police officers, making them the first public servants arrested in the investigation.\n\nAfter the news of his assassination spread, condemnations came instantly from virtually all major political parties, government officials and NGOs in Turkey, as well as from many international observers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Dink murder trial opened in Istanbul on 2 July 2007. 18 people were charged at Istanbul Heavy Penal Court No 14 in connection with the journalist's assassination. Since the main suspect, Ogün Samast, was younger than 18, the hearing was not public. Reportedly the defendants Yasin Hayal and Erhan Tuncel repeated their testimonies given to the security forces and prosecutor. The court decided to release the defendants Osman Altay, Irfan Özkan, Salih Hacisalihoglu and Veysel Toprak to be tried without remand and adjourned the hearing to 1 October.\n\nThe indictment demanded aggravated life imprisonment for Erhan Tuncel and Yasin Hayal for \"inciting the killing of Hrant Dink\". Since the alleged killer, Ogün Samast, who was younger than 18 at the time of the murder, was served a sentence between 18 and 24 years imprisonment. Yasin Hayal's brother was charged as an accessory to the crime and has to serve a sentence between 22.5 years and 35 years imprisonment. The other defendants were charged as \"members or supporter of a terrorist organisation\".\n\nIn January 2009 the 8th hearing was held. Seven of eight defendants under arrest attended the hearing. At the end three defendants were released and the hearing was adjourned to 20 April 2009. According to Human Rights Watch, Dink's murder trial is \"a critical test of the Turkish judiciary's independence.\"\n\nOn 25 July 2011, Ogün Samast was convicted of murder and being in illegal possession of a firearm by Istanbul's Heavy Juvenile Criminal Court. He was sentenced to 22 years and 10 months in prison, which was commuted from life sentence under Turkish juvenile law. After serving two thirds of it, Samast will be eligible for parole in 2021 or 2022.\n\nOn 16 January 2012, Istanbul's 14. Heavy Criminal Court reached a verdict with the remaining defendants. The court ruled there was no conspiracy behind the assassination, and stated that the assassination was an ordinary killing. Yasin Hayal was found guilty of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment. Two other men were convicted of assisting him and they were each sentenced to 12 years and 6 months in prison. Erhan Tuncel was found not guilty of Dink's murder, but was found guilty of the McDonald's bombing in Trabzon. He was sentenced to 10 years and 6 months for the bombing, and was paroled due to the 5 1/2 years time served. The remaining suspects were all acquitted in the case.\n\nIn September 2010, the European Court of Human Rights found that Turkish authorities violated Dink's right to life (Article 2 ECHR) by not acting to prevent the murder and by not punishing the police for inaction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6183549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6183549", "title": "Bridget D'Oyly Carte", "text": "Bridget D'Oyly Carte\n\nDame Bridget Cicely D'Oyly Carte, DBE (25 March 1908 – 2 May 1985), was the granddaughter of impresario Richard D'Oyly Carte and the only daughter of Rupert D'Oyly Carte. She was head of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company from 1948 until 1982.\n\nThough as a child she was not enthusiastic about Gilbert and Sullivan, after her father's death in 1948, Bridget D'Oyly Carte inherited the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, which performed and controlled the copyrights to the joint works of W. S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan, as well as all of her family's business interests. She had begun to assist her father in managing the Savoy Hotel in 1933, also undertaking child welfare work. \n\nShe hired Frederic Lloyd as general manager of the opera company in 1951 and moved to keep the Savoy operas fresh, marketing them as a bridge between popular and classical music. After the copyrights to the Gilbert and Sullivan works expired in 1961, she transferred the opera company to a charitable trust that she headed. Mounting losses, and the refusal of the Arts Council to provide a grant, forced the closure of the company in 1982, although the company re-formed after Carte's death and mounted several productions up to 2003.\n\nIn 1972, Carte founded the D'Oyly Carte Charitable Trust to support charitable causes in the fields of the arts, medical welfare and the environment. She was created a DBE in 1975. With no children of her own or surviving siblings, she was the end of her family line.\n\nBridget Cicely D'Oyly Carte was born at Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, London, and educated in England and abroad. Her father was Rupert D'Oyly Carte, and her mother was the former Lady Dorothy Milner Gathorne-Hardy (1889–1977), the youngest daughter of the 2nd Earl of Cranbrook. Her grandfather was Richard D'Oyly Carte, who founded the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company.\nIn 1926, when she was only 18, she married her first cousin, John David Gathorne-Hardy, the fourth Earl of Cranbrook (1900–1978), an explorer and naturalist. As a result of her marriage, Carte was styled as Countess of Cranbrook, and her married name was Gathorne-Hardy. They soon separated and finally divorced in 1931; she relinquished her title and resumed her maiden name by deed poll in 1932, also dropping the name Cicely, which she disliked. She then resumed her education at Dartington Hall in Devon from 1931 to 1933, a school with a long musical tradition, taking courses in dance, teacher training, art and design. There she met designer Peter Goffin who became a long-time friend.\n\nThe accidental death of her only brother, Michael (1911–1932), made Carte the heir to her father's hotel and theatre interests. As a child, however, she had been reluctant to assume the family legacy. She later told \"The Gramophone\" magazine: \"At home, you know, we weren't allowed to \"hum\" Gilbert and Sullivan; in fact we were fined for it, because it annoyed my father. We were allowed to sing it properly, but my brother and I couldn't – in my family the fact that I wasn't Mozart at about three years old was thought of as rather disappointing. So I went through a phase when I was very anti-Gilbert and Sullivan; I became rather a highbrow, and my father thought I was a bit of a snake-in-the-grass because of it.\"\n\nFrom 1933 to 1939, Carte was an assistant to her father at the Savoy Hotel, taking responsibility for furnishing and interior decoration, for which she had training and aptitude. Upon the outbreak of the Second World War, however, she undertook child welfare work and continued with it until her father's death in 1948. The family home was Coleton Fishacre, a house that her parents had built in Devon between Paignton and Kingswear in 1925. The house is still known for its design features and garden with exotic tropical plants. \n\nAfter her parents' divorce in 1941, Bridget D'Oyly Carte took over the house, which her father, who lived in London, would visit for long weekends. Shortly after her father's death, she sold Coleton Fishacre, and it is now owned by the National Trust. In 1949 she bought Shrubs Wood, Chalfont St Giles, Buckinghamshire, designed by the architects Erich Mendelsohn and Serge Chermayeff. Here she pursued her love of gardening and gave summer parties for disadvantaged or disabled children. In 1953, Carte was a member of the committee overseeing the decorations for the Coronation Ball at the Savoy Hotel in honour of the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nWhen her father died in 1948, she inherited all his interests including the Savoy Hotel group and the family's opera company, which presented the Savoy Operas from 1875 to 1982. She did not succeed Rupert D'Oyly Carte as chairman of the Savoy Hotel group, in which she retained a large shareholding, but she became an active director. She moved into a suite in the Savoy Hotel and resumed control of the furnishing and decoration departments. When the Savoy Group acquired them, she took interest in the soft-furnishing company, James Edwards, and was chairman of the royal florists, Edward Goodyear Ltd. She became vice-chairman of the Group in 1971 and was its president at the time of her death.\n\nAt first, Bridget D'Oyly Carte \"did not feel qualified to sustain the responsibility\" of running the opera company. Nevertheless, she was determined to prove herself. One of her early decisions proved especially unpopular and led to a wave of important defections from the company at the end of the Festival of Britain season in 1951, most importantly, Martyn Green. This was the 1949 hiring, as stage director, of Eleanor Evans, Mrs. Darrell Fancourt, known as \"Snookie\" in the company. Green wrote in 1952: \n\"I ... told Miss Carte that I thought she was making a great psychological error. During Anna Bethell's regime (Mrs. Sydney Granville), there had been growing signs of discontent and suggestions of favouritism... But to appoint not only a woman who had for fifteen years worked in the chorus alongside several who were now principals, but the wife of one of the main principals, seemed to me to be a psychological error of the first magnitude. I felt that ... she would, rightly or wrongly, be accused of that very same favouritism. My views made no impression on Miss Carte, but time was to prove that I was right... Production is done to a plan that takes no consideration of the individual, his personality or his histrionic ability – a stereotyped plan that results in a clockwork performance devoid of spontaneity.\n\nThe historian Tony Joseph wrote: \"But Green was not the only member of the Company to leave... Ella Halman left too. So did Richard Watson ... Margaret Mitchell ... Radley Flynn and no fewer than twenty-two other small part players and choristers. It was the largest single exodus of performers in D'Oyly Carte history, and that was why the sense of sadness that hovered over the season was so marked... August 1951 was the end of an era. Cynthia Morey, who joined the Company just before the defections, wrote: \"I have never found out precisely why this great exodus took place... We were always under the impression that we should feel honoured to be in the employ of the D’Oyly Carte Opera Company; it was patently obvious that the management held firmly to the policy that nobody is indispensable\". Morey noted that Evans had played several roles with the company and commented, \"In 1927 she was apparently demoted to the chorus, and there she remained for [fifteen years]. ... I should not have thought these qualifications sufficient for such an important post; to spend all those years as a chorister seems to signify a lack of ambition or achievement. But I suppose a 'Director of Productions' in those days merely needed to know every move and every gesture, and exactly when they occurred, for no departure from the set production was ever permitted.\" Richard Walker, Kenneth Sandford and others also criticised Evans's temperament and methods. She retired as stage director in 1953, the year that her husband died, but she was engaged to coach new D'Oyly Carte principals in their roles for some years thereafter. \n\nCarte made an important move to hire Frederic Lloyd as general manager in 1951, which position he continued to discharge until the company closed. In running the D'Oyly Carte Opera company she took steps to keep the productions fresh, engaging designers to redesign the costumes and scenery. Her old friend, Peter Goffin, who had previously redesigned \"The Yeomen of the Guard\" and \"Ruddigore\" for Rupert D'Oyly Carte, designed a unit set in 1957 to facilitate and reduce the cost of touring. He also produced new settings and costumes for \"Patience\" (1957), \"The Mikado\" (1958 – settings only, most of the celebrated Charles Ricketts costumes being retained), \"The Gondoliers\" (1958), \"Trial by Jury\" (1959), \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" (1961), and \"Iolanthe\" (1961). \"Princess Ida\" was redesigned by James Wade in 1954.\n\nCarte claimed that the most important function of the operas, which in later years she advertised rather as musicals, was \"to bridge the generation gap and link serious music to pop.\" She televised and had recordings and films made of some of the operas, engaged Sir Malcolm Sargent to conduct performances at the Festival of Britain season in 1951 at the operas' original London home, the Savoy Theatre, and supported an increasing number of tours of the United States. In 1960 the company's own touring orchestra was formed as a change from the ad hoc recruitment of players at each venue. In 1975 the company produced a centenary season at the Savoy Theatre, in 1977 it gave a royal Royal Command Performance at Windsor Castle, and in 1979, for the first time, it toured Australia and New Zealand.\n\nWith the approaching end of the D'Oyly Carte monopoly on Gilbert and Sullivan performances, when the copyright on Gilbert's words expired in 1961, Carte set up the charitable D'Oyly Carte Opera Trust to continue to present the operas. She endowed the trust with the company's scenery, costumes, band parts, recording rights and other assets, together with a cash endowment of £30,000. She formed Bridget D'Oyly Carte Ltd to manage the opera company, with herself as chairman and managing director. Finally, mounting losses, and the refusal of the Arts Council to provide a grant, forced the closure of the company in 1982. Even after it closed, however, the company's productions and style continued to influence the productions of other companies.\nIn 1972, she founded the D'Oyly Carte Charitable Trust – entirely separate from the D'Oyly Carte Opera Trust and the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company – supporting charitable causes in the fields of the arts, medical welfare and the environment. In 2001, the trust endowed the D'Oyly Carte Chair in Medicine and the Arts at King's College London with £2 million. In 1974 she was elected an Honorary Member of the Royal Society of Musicians of Great Britain, and in 1975 was created a DBE. \n\nIn the 1970s, Carte became the tenant of the semi-ruined Barscobe Castle, Balmaclellan, a small seventeenth-century fortified house in south-west Scotland, which she restored. Always shy, old-fashioned and formal, Carte appreciated simplicity and avoided parties and social events as much as possible. For her \"Who's Who\" entry she listed her recreations as, \"country living and gardening; reading, theatre and music.\"\n\nA heavy smoker, Carte died of lung cancer in her country home in Shrubs Wood, Buckinghamshire in 1985, aged 77. Her remains were cremated. She left a fortune of £5,479,888. With no children of her own or surviving siblings, she was the end of her family line. The Savoy hotel group continued under the control of her trustees until 1994. The group's hotels remained among the most prestigious in London, with the \"London Evening Standard\" calling the Savoy \"London's most famous hotel\" in 2009. \n\nA legacy of £1 million from her private fortune enabled a new opera company, using the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company name, to begin operations in 1988. The company secured sponsorship from Sir Michael Bishop, who eventually became chairman of the Board of Trustees, and BMI British Midland Airways (of which Bishop is chairman).\n\nFrom 1988 to 2003 the new company produced short seasons each year, mounting productions of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas on tour and in London, as well as operettas by Jacques Offenbach, Franz Lehár and Johann Strauss II. The new company did not employ many of the members of the original company and did not follow its performing traditions, even staging some \"concept\" productions of the operas. Once again, costs outran receipts, public subsidy was denied by the English Arts Council, and the company suspended productions in May 2003. It continues to rent scores.\n\nThe Gilbert and Sullivan operas, nurtured by the Carte family for over a century, continue to be produced frequently today throughout the English-speaking world and beyond. By keeping the Savoy operas popular for so long, the Carte family influenced the course of the development of modern musical theatre throughout the 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "86156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86156", "title": "Brân the Blessed", "text": "Brân the Blessed\n\nBrân the Blessed ( or Brân Fendigaidd, literally \"Blessed Crow\") is a giant and king of Britain in Welsh mythology. He appears in several of the Welsh Triads, but his most significant role is in the Second Branch of the Mabinogi, \"Branwen ferch Llŷr\". He is a son of Llŷr and Penarddun, and the brother of Brânwen, Manawydan, Nisien and Efnysien. The name \"Brân\" in Welsh is usually translated as crow or raven.\n\nThe Irish king Matholwch sails to Harlech to speak with Bran the Blessed high king of the Island of the Mighty and to ask for the hand of his sister Branwen in marriage, thus forging an alliance between the two islands. Bendigeidfran agrees to Matholwch's request, but the celebrations are cut short when Efnisien, a half-brother to the children of Llŷr, brutally mutilates Matholwch's horses, angry that his permission was not sought in regard to the marriage. Matholwch is deeply offended until Bran offers him compensation in the form of a magic cauldron that can restore the dead to life. Pleased with the gift, Matholwch and Branwen sail back to Ireland to reign.\n\nOnce in Matholwch's kingdom, Branwen gives birth to a son, Gwern, but Efnysien's insult continues to rankle among the Irish and, eventually, Branwen is mistreated, banished to the kitchen and beaten every day. She tames a starling and sends it across the Irish Sea with a message to her brother Bendigeidfran, who sails from Wales to Ireland to rescue her with his brother, Manawydan and a huge host of warriors, mustered from the 154 cantrefs of Britain. The Irish offer to make peace and build a house big enough to entertain Bendigeidfrân but hang a hundred bags inside, supposedly containing flour but actually containing armed warriors. Efnysien, suspecting treachery, reconnoiters the hall and kills the warriors by crushing their skulls. Later, at the feast, Efnysien, again feeling insulted, murders Gwern by burning him alive, and, as a result, a vicious battle breaks out. Seeing that the Irish are using the cauldron to revive their dead, he hides among the Irish corpses and is thrown into the cauldron by the unwitting enemy. He destroys the cauldron from within, sacrificing himself in the process.\n\nOnly seven men survive the conflict, among them Manawydan, Taliesin and Pryderi fab Pwyll, prince of Dyfed, Branwen having herself died of a broken heart. The survivors are told by a mortally wounded Bran to cut off his head and to return it to Britain. For seven years the seven survivors stay in Harlech, where they are entertained by Bran's head, which continues to speak. They later move on to Gwales (often identified with Grassholm Island off Dyfed) where they live for eighty years without perceiving the passing of time. Eventually, Heilyn fab Gwyn opens the door of the hall facing Cornwall and the sorrow of what had befallen them returns. As instructed they take the now silent head to the Gwynfryn, the \"White Hill\" (thought to be the location where the Tower of London now stands), where they bury it facing France so as to ward off invasion. The imagery of the talking head is widely considered to derive from the ancient Celtic \"cult of the head\"; the head was considered the home of the soul.\n\nAccording to the Welsh Triads, Brân's head was buried in London where the White Tower now stands. As long as it remained there, Britain would be safe from invasion. However, King Arthur dug up the head, declaring the country would be protected only by his great strength. There have been attempts in modern times to link the still-current practice of keeping ravens at the Tower of London under the care of Yeomen Warder Ravenmaster with this story of Brân, whose name means crow (cigfran means Raven).\n\nSeveral scholars have noted similarities between Brân the Blessed and the Arthurian character the Fisher King, the keeper of the Holy Grail. The Fisher King first appears in Chrétien de Troyes's 12th century French romance \"Perceval, the Story of the Grail\"; he has been dealt a mortal wound in the leg (Brân's wound was in his foot) but stays alive in his mystical castle due to the effects of the Grail, waiting to be healed by Percival. A later author who took up the story, Robert de Boron, describes the history of the Grail in ancient times, and says the first Fisher King was a man called \"Bron\". Additionally, the Welsh story \"Peredur son of Efrawg\", a version of the Percival story with several striking deviations, features the hero visiting a mysterious castle, but he does not find the Grail there, but rather a severed human head. Additionally, some works attribute to the Grail the power to restore the fallen, making it somewhat similar to Brân's cauldron. Others have identified Bendigeidfran with the Irish hero Bran mac Febal.\n\nJohn T. Koch proposes a number of parallels between the mythological Bendigeidfran and the historical Celtic chieftain Brennus, who invaded the Balkans in the 3rd century BC. He goes on to suggest an association between Brân and Brancaster, a fort on the Norfolk coast, while Rachel Bromwich suggests that Castell Dinas Brân in Denbighshire is similarly related. Count Nikolai Tolstoy proposes that Brân's original function was that of a psychopomp, guiding the souls of the dead to the Otherworld.\n\nBrân is praised in the poetry of 12th century bard Cynddelw Brydydd Mawr, in which he is described as \"a good commander of the host; in battle, in hostile territory, in the contest, in stress\", while, in his elegy for Llywelyn ap Gruffudd, Prince of Wales, Bleddyn Fardd compares the overthrow of the prince to the deaths of Llywelyn Fawr, King Arthur and Brân. A poem found in the Black Book of Carmarthen refers to Bendigeidfran's death in Ireland, claiming that Gwyn ap Nudd was present at the battle, either as a warrior or in his traditional role as a psychopomp.\n\nThe Welsh mythological texts of the \"Mabinogion\" were recorded between the 14th and 15th centuries in Middle Welsh. As a result, there are discrepancies regarding the spelling of names, because English translations maintain Middle Welsh orthography whereas Modern Welsh versions use Modern Welsh orthography. In Middle Welsh, there was some variation on the name Brân; other grammatical forms (following the rules of Welsh mutations) include \"Vran\" and \"Uran\" (\"Fran\" in Modern Welsh orthography).\n\nIn the \"Mabinogion\", the character is referred to virtually exclusively as \"Bendigeituran\"; that is, with the epithet \"Bendigeit\" (blessed or praiseworthy) attached. The only exceptions are in the patronymic of his son Caradog ap Brân and a single reference to his gathering in Ireland as \"Gwledd Brân\", \"The feast of Brân (or 'Crow')\". This usage is followed in the Welsh Triads. Bendigeituran becomes \"Bendigeidfrân\" or \"Brân Fendigeid\" in Modern Welsh; Bendigeidfran is the form used in many Modern Welsh adaptations of the \"Mabinogion\". However, earlier references generally do not include the epithet, instead calling the character \"Brân fab Llŷr\" or simply \"Brân\". Ifor Williams thought \"Bendigeit\" was a late addition, perhaps a replacement for a word that had become obsolete by the time the \"Mabinogi\" was recorded. \"Vran\" appears in an old poem in the Book of Taliesin, while Cynddelw Brydydd Mawr and Prydydd y Moch mention \"Brân fab Llŷr\" several times in their poetry, under different spellings. However, Bleddyn Fardd refers to \"Benigeitran\" in his elegy for Llywelyn ap Gruffudd, demonstrating that the epithet \"Bendigeit\" had been attached to Brân since the late 13th century.\n\nIn West Penwith the name Bran is associated with Caer Bran a Cornish Round and the Men Scryfa which records a Brittonic RIALOBRANI CUNOVALI FILI ('royal raven' son of 'Famous Leader') suggesting a local leader carried the name of the famous hero, the son of a Cynfawl.\n\n"}
{"id": "57701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57701", "title": "Buryats", "text": "Buryats\n\nThe Buryats (; ), numbering approximately 500,000, are the largest indigenous group in Siberia, mainly concentrated in their homeland, the Buryat Republic, a federal subject of Russia. They are the major northern subgroup of the Mongols.\n\nBuryats share many customs with other Mongols, including nomadic herding, and erecting gers for shelter. Today, the majority of Buryats live in and around Ulan-Ude, the capital of the republic, although many live more traditionally in the countryside. They speak a central Mongolic language called Buryat. According to UNESCO's 2010 edition of the Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger, the Buryat language is classified as severely endangered.\n\nIt is most likely that the ancestors of modern Buryats are Bayyrku and Kurykans who were part of the tribal union of the Tiele.The Tiele, in turn, came from the Dingling. The first information about Dingling appeared in the sources of IV-III centuries. BC. e.The name \"Buriyad\" is mentioned as one of the forest people for the first time in \"The Secret History of the Mongols\" (possibly 1240). It says Jochi, the eldest son of Genghis Khan, marched north to subjugate the Buryats in 1207. The Buryats lived along the Angara River and its tributaries at this time. Meanwhile, their component, Barga, appeared both west of Baikal and in northern Buryatia's Barguzin valley. Linked also to the Bargas were the Khori-Tumed along the Arig River in eastern Khövsgöl Province and the Angara. A Tumad rebellion broke out in 1217, when Genghis Khan allowed his viceroy to seize 30 Tumad maidens. Genghis Khan's commander Dorbei the Fierce of the Dörbeds smashed them in response. The Buryats joined the Oirats challenging the imperial rule of the Eastern Mongols during the Northern Yuan period in the late 14th century.\n\nHistorically, the territories around Lake Baikal belonged to Mongolia, Buryats were subject to Tusheet Khan and Setsen Khan of Khalkha Mongolia. When the Russians expanded into Transbaikalia (eastern Siberia) in 1609, the Cossacks found only a small core of tribal groups speaking a Mongol dialect called Buryat and paying tribute to the Khalkha. However, they were powerful enough to compel the Ket and Samoyed peoples on the Kan and the Evenks on the lower Angara to pay tribute. The ancestors of most modern Buryats were speaking a variety of Turkic-Tungusic dialects at that time. In addition to genuine Buryat-Mongol tribes (Bulagad, Khori, Ekhired, Khongoodor) that merged with the Buryats, the Buryats also assimilated other groups, including some Oirats, the Khalkha, Tungus (Evenks) and others. The Khori-Barga had migrated out of the Barguzin eastward to the lands between the Greater Khingan and the Argun. Around 1594 most of them fled back to the Aga and Nerchinsk in order to escape subjection by the Daurs. The territory and people were formally annexed to the Russian state by treaties in 1689 and 1727, when the territories on both the sides of Lake Baikal were separated from Mongolia. Consolidation of modern Buryat tribes and groups took place under the conditions of the Russian state. From the middle of the 17th century to the beginning of the 20th century, the Buryat population increased from 77,000 (27,700-60,000) to 300,000.\n\nAnother estimate of the rapid growth in people referring to themselves as Buryat is based on the clan list names paying tribute in the form of a sable-skin tax. This indicates a population of about 77,000 in 1640 rising to 157,000 in 1823 and more than a million by 1950.\n\nThe historical roots of the Buryat culture are related to the Mongolic peoples. After Buryatia was incorporated into Russia, it was exposed to two traditions – Buddhist and Christian. Buryats west of Lake Baikal and Olkhon (Irkut Buryats), are more \"russified\", and they soon abandoned nomadism for agriculture, whereas the eastern (Transbaikal) Buryats are closer to the Khalkha, may live in yurts and are mostly Buddhists. In 1741, the Tibetan branch of Buddhism was recognized as one of the official religions in Russia, and the first Buryat datsan (Buddhist monastery) was built.\n\nThe second half of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century was a time of growth for the Buryat Buddhist church (48 datsans in Buryatia in 1914). Buddhism became an important factor in the cultural development of Buryatia. Because of their skills in horsemanship and mounted combat, many were enlisted into the Amur Cossacks host. During the Russian Civil War most of the Buryats sided with the White forces of Baron Ungern-Sternberg and Ataman Semenov. They formed a sizable portion of Ungern's forces and often received favorable treatment when compared with other ethnic groups in the Baron's army. After the Revolution, most of the lamas were loyal to Soviet power. In 1925, a battle against religion and clergy in Buryatia began. Datsans were gradually closed down and the activity of the clergy was curtailed. Consequently, in the late 1930s the Buddhist clergy ceased to exist and thousands of cultural treasures were destroyed. Attempts to revive the Buddhist cult started during World War II, and it was officially re-established in 1946. A revival of Buddhism has taken place since the late 1980s as an important factor in the national consolidation.\n\nIn the 1930s, Buryat-Mongolia was one of the sites of Soviet studies aimed to disprove Nazi race theories. Among other things, Soviet physicians studied the \"endurance and fatigue levels\" of Russian, Buryat-Mongol, and Russian-Buryat-Mongol workers to prove that all three groups were equally able.\n\nIn 1923, the Buryat-Mongol Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic was formed and included Baikal province (Pribaykalskaya guberniya) with Russian population. The Buryats rebelled against the communist rule and collectivization of their herds in 1929. The rebellion was quickly crushed by the Red Army with loss of 35,000 Buryats. The Buryat refugees fled to Mongolia and resettled, however, only a few of them joined the Shambala rebellion there. In 1937, in an effort to disperse Buryats, Stalin's government separated a number of counties (\"raions\") from the Buryat-Mongol Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic and formed Ust-Orda Buryat Autonomous Okrug and Agin-Buryat Autonomous Okrug; at the same time, some raions with Buryat populations were left out. Fearing Buryat nationalism, Joseph Stalin had more than 10,000 Buryats killed. Moreover, Stalinist purge of Buryats spread into Mongolia, known as the incident of L'humbee. In 1958, the name \"Mongol\" was removed from the name of the republic (Buryat ASSR). BASSR declared its sovereignty in 1990 and adopted the name Republic of Buryatia in 1992. The constitution of the Republic was adopted by the People's Khural in 1994, and a bilateral treaty with the Russian Federation was signed in 1995.\n\nThe Buryat national tradition is ecological by origin in that the religious and mythological ideas of the Buryat people have been based on a theology of nature. The environment has traditionally been deeply respected by Buryats due to the nomadic way of life and religious culture. The harsh climatic conditions of the region have in turn created a fragile balance between humans, society and the environment itself. This has led to a delicate approach to nature, oriented not towards its conquest but rather towards a harmonious interaction and equal partnership with it. A synthesis of Buddhism and traditional beliefs that formed a system of ecological traditions has thus constituted a major attribute of Buryat eco-culture.\n\nAccording to the Buryat creation myth, there were 11 Buryat tribes or clans. And according to the myth all 11 tribes are descendants of a man and a mysterious but beautiful creature that turns to swan during day and a woman during the night. After the two married, the man asked her to give him her wings so that she would not turn into swan anymore. However, it is said that after some time the woman asked for her wings back and flew away never to return. Today there are a number of different Buryat tribes, or clans.\n\n\n\nAlso see in for more articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11453275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11453275", "title": "Carole R. Fontaine", "text": "Carole R. Fontaine\n\nCarole R. Fontaine (born 1950) is an internationally recognized American biblical scholar. She is the John Taylor professor of biblical theology and history at the Andover Newton Theological School and feminist author of six books and over 100 articles, in addition to serving on several editorial boards (including the \"Journal of Biblical Literature\", the \"Catholic Biblical Quarterly\", and the \"World Book Encyclopedia\"). She has written extensively on feminist theological topics, including disability, and is an expert in wisdom traditions and women in the ancient Near East.\n\n\"A long time Human Rights defender, she has served extensively on governing boards of Women’s Human Rights NGOs that study the impact of religion on women’s status, rights and freedom, especially in Muslim theocracies.\"\n\nA collection of her own poetry, \"Only When Women Sing: Poems on Human Rights\" was published in 2009.\n\n\n\"She has numerous media credits (BBC; C-Span; Discovery Channel; National Geographic, and Arts & Entertainment Networks)\" and Persian Satellite Network (broadcasts into Iran and Iraq).\n\n"}
{"id": "9872883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9872883", "title": "Cliff Twemlow", "text": "Cliff Twemlow\n\nCliff Twemlow (14 October 1937 – 5 May 1993) was an English actor, nightclub bouncer, horror paperback author and library music composer.\n\nTwemlow was born in Hulme, Manchester, the son of a merchant seaman. He became a nightclub bouncer, or \"Tuxedo Warrior\", in 1950s Morecambe before this occupation would take him to Scotland and back to Manchester. Hoping to diversify Twemlow worked as an extra on the television series Coronation Street and attempted to break into the music industry by composing library music under the pen name Peter Reno. The latter was a hugely successful venture, with Twemlow penning more than two thousand compositions within the space of a few years. Musically self-taught, Cliff composed music using what he referred to as the 'De Dum Da' Principle. \"I had discovered that with the aid of a tape recorder, I could assemble or compose lyric and tune. My voice would simulate orchestral sounds, giving me an insight as to how it could be arranged. God, the noises were appalling. Um Te Ta, Deeple, Dum Rump Pa Pa! I was in hysterics listening to the playback.\" he later claimed in his autobiography. Most of his Peter Reno material was written for the company De Wolfe Music and used in television (\"Public Eye\", Rutland Weekend Television, \"The Benny Hill Show\",\"Queenie's Castle\", \"The Sweeney\"), films (\"Zeta One\", \"Secrets of Sex\", \"A Touch of the Sun\", \"Deathdream\") and advertisements. One of his songs \"Cause I'm a Man\", written in 1967, later became famous when it was used in the film Dawn of the Dead. A particularly lucrative composition was \"Distant Hills\", which was used as the end credit theme of the programme \"Crown Court\" from 1972 to the shows end in 1984. \"Distant Hills\" would also prove to be Cliff's only brush with the charts when it was used as the B side to Eye Level- the theme from Van der Valk- a single that enjoyed four weeks at number one in 1973. The same year however Cliff would encounter legal problems due to a song of his – recorded by Salena Jones – bearing the name 'Live and Let Die'. Though released shortly before Paul McCartney recorded a song by the same name for the eponymous James Bond film, a court case was instigated by the publishers of the McCartney song and an injunction slammed on the Twemlow record. Twemlow's defence was that it was simply an innocent example of two songs bearing the same title, unfortunately a \"James Bond\" style pose on the picture sleeve threw doubt on this, and the court found in favour of McCartney's people. The Twemlow/Salena Jones record was subsequently withdrawn. Unfortunately such problems within the music industry, combined with bad business deals, legal hassles and a divorce from childhood sweetheart Georgina Curly meant Twemlow's music success was short lived and he was eventually declared bankrupt.\nOne of Twemlow's songs from this period \"Once\" from the album Restless Woman (1971), claims \n“Once I owned a mansion/ Money couldn't buy / People used to stop and say / There goes quite a guy/ Now I'm left with nothing/ And I have no place to go/ For when you're down/ Nobody wants to know\".\n\nIn the mid-1970s Twemlow took a variety of odd jobs, including a delivery driver for Lomas and Baynes, a company that specialised in supplying equipment for offices, he also worked for a time as a ferryman on the Manchester Ship Canal in Irlam. After undergoing an extreme fitness régime to get back into shape (Twemlow's exercise sessions – which included jogging with lead weights tied to his legs – were the stuff of local legend) Twemlow eventually returned to work as a nightclub bouncer, taking a £70 a week job, at Peter Stringfellow's 'Millionaire' nightclub in Manchester's West Mosley Street – this was the real name of 'The Omega' club referred to in the book, 'The Tuxedo Warrior'. He was married to Judith, who worked as a secretary for a Manchester firm of solicitors and they lived in Whitefield on the north side of the Manchester area.\n\nIn the early 1980s he wrote his autobiography \"The Tuxedo Warrior\", which documented his career in the music industry and as a bouncer. In the book's final chapter Twemlow is hospitalised after a fight in a nightclub leaves him with a fractured skull and his family ask him to retire or seek an alternative lifestyle. He refuses and returns to being a Tuxedo Warrior, the book closes with the statement \"it is far better to be a resident on the brink of hell, than spend a lifetime in a relentless pursuit of a mythical heaven\".\n\nTuxedo Warrior was turned into a film in 1982, however the film chooses to ignore all aspects of Cliff's life and instead merely uses him as a character in a fictional narrative. In the film Cliff (John Wyman) is an ex-bouncer from Manchester who has opened a bar in South Africa and becomes involved in diamond smuggling, as well as being torn between two women, an American free spirit (Holly Palance) and a British compulsive gambler (Carol Royle). Confusingly the real Twemlow appears in the film as supporting character 'Chaser'. The only other character in the film taken from the book, in real life Chaser, r.n. Barney Brogan, was an American bouncer who had a violent confrontation with Cliff in 1950s Morecambe. In the book he is described as \"a big burly American, around 5' 11\". Whose face had taken more second prizes than a blind tomcat in a bowling alley….. Chaser was big and evil.”\n\nEncouraged by the success of the Tuxedo Warrior book Twemlow would go on to write two fiction books for the pulp horror market the Beast of Kane (1983) and The Pike (1982). The Beast of Kane, concerns the Gordon family, who adopt a stray elk-hound that turns out to be \"Satan himself, fulfilling an ancient prophecy\". Written in the late 1970s under the title The Dogs of Kane, the book was submitted as a possible film project for Hammer Film Productions but was rejected. Twemlow then tried to make a film of The Pike, starring Joan Collins, but the budget could not be raised despite Collins' star power and Twemlow and Collins promoting the film on the BBC's Look North programme. During the promotion Joan appeared on a BBC TV Tomorrow's World special featuring the innovative and technically advanced mechanical Pike, made especially for the film. The Mechanical Pike apparently now resides as an exhibit of robotics in Japan.\n\nIn 1982–83 Twemlow acted in, wrote and composed the music score for the film \"GBH\", one of the earliest British films to be shot on videotape. Considered to be far more accurate in depicting Twemlow's life than the Tuxedo Warrior film, GBH features him as Steve Donovan aka \"The Mancunian\", a world weary nightclub bouncer hired to protect a club from a London gang. The film's well remembered video cover features a blood splattered Twemlow holding an axe with the tag line \"more brutal than \"The Long Good Friday\"\".\n\nThe theme song of the film, written by Cliff was actually a ballad depiction of how Cliff was in real life, the lyrics \"he walks tall with his head held high, before he backs down he would rather die, he's a mean machine, none tougher than, the man, man, man, man-cunian man!\" were EXACTLY how Cliff lived his life. To those who REALLY knew him, rather than those who knew him vaguely or claimed to know him; his true friends who lived day by day, shoulder to shoulder with him through the 1980s and into the 1990s saw him live by his words and actually led by example, often daring to venture where others genuinely feared to tread. GBH led to Cliff Twemlow appearing in 12 more films shot as video features plus a plethora of film-shorts and MajorVision special interest films.\n\nThese included Target Eve Island (1983), which became known as Operation Urgent Fury, named after the American military operation to Grenada, co-produced with director David Kent-Watson in Grenada and Barbados, The Ibiza Connection in 1994 with his close friends Steve Powell and Brian Sterling-Vete, in 1985 Cliff worked closely with Brian in an attempt to produce the film called 'The Blind Side of God' with former Coronation Street star Peter Adamson, the film was later produced in conjunction with David Kent-Watson but Peter Adamson did not appear in the finished DKW version.\n\nLate in 1986 Cliff produced and starred in Moonstalker – AKA 'Predator' alongside Cordelia Roche and his old friend Brian in the role as 'Bager', the Psycho killer of the film. This film was shot by David Tattersall (Director of Photography – DOP) – David then went on to eventually become the DOP on The Green Mile, Con Air, Star Wars 1 and 2, The Young Indiana Jones and most recently The Day The Earth Stood Still.\n\nCliff took a short break in December 1985 and January 1986 when he was invited to join his friend Brian in Iceland, this is where Brian was co-producing a play, Trafford Tanzi with Jon Paul Baldwinsson of the Icelandic National Theatre. It was there that Cliff met Brian's old friend and 4 time World's Strongest Man, [Jon Pall Sigmarsson]. More information is on the web site www.bs-v.tv which is the official website of one Cliff's closest friends through the 1980s and into the 1990s, Brian Sterling-Vete; Cliff's other great friend Stuart Hurst should also be consulted as he also worked super-closely with Cliff right through to the very end.\n\nWhen Cliff and Brian returned to the UK, Cliff set to producing The Eye of Satan (1987) with director David Kent-Watson, in which Cliff plays a mercenary with satanic powers alongside glamorous co-star Ginette Gray.\n\nCliff followed this with Tokyo Sunrise with Director Robert Foster in 1988.\n\nIn 1991 Cliff and David Kent-Watson produced GBH2 for television; filming took place in Manchester and on the island of Malta.\n\nIn the same year, Cliff and David produced a pilot for a hard-hitting television series 'Bad Weekend'. The revolutionary concept was that each episode should be filmed in the space of one weekend, as was the pilot.\n\nThe following year Cliff and David took on their most ambitious film project, Firestar: First Contact, in which Cliff and the crew of the spaceship, Firestar, battle alien monsters. The action was superbly staged by Cliff and Stuart Hurst. The film starred Bond-film actors Charles Gray and\nJohn Wyman. Star of 'The Stud'films, Oliver Tobias, co-starred as the captain of the spaceship.\n\nAfter working on Tokyo Sunrise with Robert Foster and Brian Sterling-Vete, Cliff appeared in several special interest films produced by his friend Brian on the MajorVision label (now on DVD) these included 'The Power to Win, 'The Ultimate Self Defence' and 'Fitness Over Forty'\n\nThe pioneering feature films, some shot on super-low-budgets and mostly filmed in and around Manchester, continued until his premature death from a heart attack in 1993. Cliff had shot scenes for a comedy-action boxing film with David Kent-Watson on the Greek island of Rhodes with actor Terrence Hardiman. Sadly it was to be their last collaboration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5368568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5368568", "title": "Craig Hosmer", "text": "Craig Hosmer\n\nChester Craig Hosmer (May 6, 1915 – October 11, 1982) was a United States Representative from California.\n\nHosmer was born in Brea, California, in Orange County. He attended the public schools, graduated from Long Beach Polytechnic High School. Hosmer graduated from the University of California, Berkeley in 1937.\n\nHosmer attended the University of Michigan Law School in 1938 and graduated from the University of Southern California Law School in 1940. He was admitted to the bar in 1940 and began practice in Long Beach, California. He enlisted in the United States Navy in July 1940 and advanced to the rank of commander; rear admiral, Naval Reserve. He was an attorney with the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission at Los Alamos, New Mexico and special assistant United States District Attorney for New Mexico in 1948. He then returned to Long Beach, California to private practice.\n\nHosmer was an unsuccessful Republican candidate for election in 1950 to the Eighty-second Congress. He was elected as a Republican to the Eighty-third and to the ten succeeding Congresses and served from January 3, 1953, until his resignation December 31, 1974. He was not a candidate for reelection in 1974 to the Ninety-fourth Congress. He was president of the American Nuclear Energy Council from 1975-1979. He was a resident of Washington, D.C. until his death on October 11, 1982, aboard a cruise ship bound for Mexico. He was buried at Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia.\n\n Retrieved on 2008-02-10\n"}
{"id": "173908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173908", "title": "Cyril Burt", "text": "Cyril Burt\n\nSir Cyril Lodowic Burt, FBA (3 March 1883 – 10 October 1971) was an English educational psychologist and geneticist who made contributions also to statistics. He is known for his studies on the heritability of IQ. Shortly after he died, his studies of inheritance and intelligence were discredited after evidence emerged indicating he had falsified research data, inventing correlations in separated twins which did not exist.\nBurt was born on 3 March 1883, the first child of Cyril Cecil Barrow Burt (b. 1857), a medical practitioner, and his wife Martha. He was born in London (some sources give his place of birth as Stratford on Avon, probably because his entry in \"Who's Who\" gave his father's address as Snitterfield, Stratford; in fact the Burt family moved to Snitterfield when he was ten).\n\nBurt's father initially kept a chemist shop to support his family while he studied medicine. On qualifying, he became the assistant house surgeon and obstetrical assistant at Westminster Hospital, London. The younger Cyril Burt's education began in London at a Board school near St. James's Park.\n\nIn 1890, the family briefly moved to Jersey then to Snitterfield, Warwickshire in 1893, where Burt's father opened a rural practice. Early in Burt's life he showed a precocious nature, so much so that his father often took the young Burt with him on his medical rounds. One of the elder Burt's more famous patients was Darwin Galton, brother of Francis Galton. The visits the Burts made to the Galton estate not only allowed the young Burt to learn about the work of Francis Galton, but also allowed Burt to meet him on multiple occasions and to be strongly drawn to his ideas; especially his studies in statistics and individual differences, two defining characters of the London School of Psychology whose membership includes both Galton and Burt.\n\nHe attended King's (now known as Warwick) School, in the County town, from 1892 to 1895, and later won a scholarship to Christ's Hospital, then located in London, where he developed his interest in psychology.\n\nFrom 1902, he studied at Jesus College, Oxford, where he specialized in philosophy and psychology, the latter under William McDougall. McDougall, knowing Burt's interest in Galton's work, suggested that he focus his senior project on psychometrics, thus giving Burt his initial inquiry into the development and structure of mental tests, an interest that would last the rest of his life. Burt was one of a group of students who worked with McDougall, which included William Brown, John Flügel, and May Smith, who all went on to have distinguished careers in psychology. Burt graduated with second-class honours in 1906 which he supplemented by a teaching diploma.\n\nIn 1907, McDougall invited Burt to help with a nationwide survey of physical and mental characteristics of the British people, proposed by Francis Galton, in which he was to work on the standardization of psychological tests. This work brought Burt into contact with eugenics, Charles Spearman, and Karl Pearson.\n\nIn the summer of 1908, Burt visited the University of Würzburg, Germany, where he first met the psychologist Oswald Külpe.\n\nIn 1908, Burt took up the post of Lecturer in Psychology and Assistant Lecturer in Physiology at Liverpool University, where he was to work under the famed physiologist Sir Charles Sherrington. In 1909 Burt made use of Charles Spearman's model of general intelligence to analyse his data on the performance of schoolchildren in a battery of tests. This first research project was to define Burt's life's work in quantitative intelligence testing, eugenics, and the inheritance of intelligence. One of the conclusions in his 1909 paper was that upper-class children in private preparatory schools did better in the tests than those in the ordinary elementary schools, and that the difference was innate.\n\nIn 1913, Burt took the part-time position of a school psychologist for the London County Council (LCC), with the responsibility of picking out the \"feeble-minded\" children, in accordance with the Mental Deficiency Act of 1913. He notably established that girls were equal to boys in general intelligence. The post also allowed him to work in Spearman's laboratory, and receive research assistants from the National Institute of Industrial Psychology, including Winifred Raphael.\n\nBurt was much involved in the initiation of child guidance in Great Britain and his 1925 publication \"The Young Delinquent\" led to opening of the London Child Guidance Clinic in Islington in 1927. In 1924 Burt was also appointed part-time professor of educational psychology at the London Day Training College (LDTC), and carried out much of his child guidance work on the premises.\n\nIn 1931, Burt resigned his position at the LCC and the LDTC after he was appointed Professor and Chair of Psychology at University College, London, taking over the position from Charles Spearman, thus ending his almost 20-year career as a school psychological practitioner. One of his students, Reuben Conrad, recalled that he once arrived at the university with a chimpanzee that he had borrowed from London Zoo, though Conrad could not recall what point Burt was trying to make. While at London, Burt influenced many students, including Raymond Cattell and Hans Eysenck, and toward the end of his life, Arthur Jensen and Chris Brand. Burt was a consultant with the committees that developed the 11-plus examinations. This issue, and the allegations of fraudulent scholarship against him, are discussed in various books and articles listed below, including \"Cyril Burt: Fraud or Framed\" and \"The Mismeasure of Man\".\n\nDespite his lasting reputation as a statistical psychologist Cyril Burt was also involved in psychoanalysis. He was a member of the Tavistock Clinic Council in the early 1930s. and of the British Psychoanalytical Society In \"The Young Delinquent\", he expressed the view that \"nearly every tragedy of crime is in its origin a drama of domestic life.\"\n\nIn 1942, Burt was elected President of the British Psychological Society. In 1946, he became the first British psychologist to be knighted for his contributions to psychological testing and for making educational opportunities more widely available, according to an account by J. Philippe Rushton. Burt was a member of the London School of Differential Psychology, and of the British Eugenics Society. Because he had suggested on radio in 1946 the formation of an organization for people with high IQ scores, he was made honorary president of Mensa in 1960. He officially joined Mensa soon thereafter.\n\nAt age 68, Burt retired but continued writing articles and books. He died of cancer at age 88 in London on 10 October 1971.\n\nOver the course of his career, Burt published numerous articles and books on a host of topics ranging from psychometrics through philosophy of science to parapsychology. It is his research in behaviour genetics, most notably in studying the heritability of intelligence (as measured in IQ tests) using twin studies that have created the most controversy, frequently referred to as \"the Burt Affair.\" Shortly after Burt died it became known that all of his notes and records had been burnt, and he was accused of falsifying research data. From the late 1970s, it was generally accepted that \"he had fabricated some of the data, though some of his earlier work remained unaffected by this revelation.\" This was due in large part to research by Oliver Gillie (1976) and Leon Kamin (1974). The 2007 Encyclopædia Britannica noted that it is widely acknowledged that his later work was flawed and many academics agree that data were falsified, though his earlier work is generally accepted as valid.\n\nThe possibility of fabrication was first brought to the attention of the scientific community when Kamin noticed that Burt's correlation coefficients of monozygotic and dizygotic twins' IQ scores were the same to three decimal places, across articles – even when new data were twice added to the sample of twins. Leslie Hearnshaw, a close friend of Burt and his official biographer, concluded after examining the criticisms that most of Burt's data from after World War II were unreliable or fraudulent. William H. Tucker argued in a 1997 article that: \"A comparison of his twin sample with that from other well documented studies, however, leaves little doubt that he committed fraud.\" Psychologists Arthur Jensen and J. Philippe Rushton, themselves controversial, have pointed out that the contentious correlations reported by Burt are in line with the correlations found in other twin studies. Rushton (1997) wrote that five different studies on twins reared apart by independent researchers corroborated Cyril Burt's findings and had given almost the same heritability estimate (average estimate 0.75 vs. 0.77 by Burt). Jensen has also argued that \"[n]o one with any statistical sophistication, and Burt had plenty, would report exactly the same correlation, 0.77, three times in succession if he were trying to fake the data.\" According to Earl B. Hunt, it may never be found out whether Burt was intentionally fraudulent or merely careless. Noting that other studies on the heritability of IQ have produced results very similar to those of Burt's, Hunt argues that Burt did not harm science in the narrow sense of misleading scientists with false results, but that in the broader sense science in general and behaviour genetics in particular were profoundly harmed by the Burt Affair, leading to an unjustified general rejection of genetic studies of intelligence and a drying up of funding for such studies.\n\nIn 1976, the London \"Sunday Times\" claimed that two of Burt's supposed collaborators, Margaret Howard and J. Conway, were invented by Burt himself. They based this on the lack of independent articles published by them in scientific journals, and the fact that they allegedly only appeared in the historical record as reviewers of Burt's books in the \"Journal of Statistical Psychology\" when the journal was redacted by Burt. However, Miss Howard was also mentioned in the membership list of the British Psychological Society, Prof. John Cohen remembered her well during the 1930s and Prof. Donald MacRae had personally received an article from her in 1949 and 1950. According to Ronald Fletcher there is also full documentary evidence of the existence of Miss Conway \n\nRobert Joynson and Ronald Fletcher published books in support of Burt. Cambridge University Professor of Psychology Nicholas Mackintosh edited \"Cyril Burt: Fraud or Framed?\", which was presented by the publisher as arguing that \"his defenders have sometimes, but by no means always, been correct, and that his critics have often jumped to hasty conclusions.\" W.D. Hamilton claimed in a 2000 book review that the claims made by his detractors in the so-called \"Burt Affair\" had been either wrong or grossly exaggerated.\n\n\n\n\n\nArchival collections related to Burt in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1483363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1483363", "title": "Cyril Scott", "text": "Cyril Scott\n\nCyril Meir Scott (27 September 1879 – 31 December 1970) was an English composer, writer, and poet.\nScott was born in Oxton, Cheshire to a shipper and scholar of Greek and Hebrew, and Mary Scott (née Griffiths), an amateur pianist. He showed a talent for music from an early age and was sent to the Hoch Conservatory in Frankfurt, Germany to study piano in 1892 at age 12. He studied with Iwan Knorr and belonged to the Frankfurt Group, a circle of composers who studied at the Hoch Conservatory in the late 1890s. His first symphony was performed (through the good offices of his friend Stefan George, the great German poet) when he was only twenty years old. He played his Piano Quartet with Fritz Kreisler, Emil Kreuz, and Ludwig Lebell in St. James' Hall in 1903.\n\nIn 1902 he met the pianist Evelyn Suart, with whom he had a long artistic association. She championed his music, premiering many of his works, and introducing him to his publisher, Elkin, with whom he remained for the rest of his life. Evelyn Suart was also a Christian Scientist, and it was through her that Scott became interested in metaphysics. Scott dedicated his Scherzo, Op. 25 to Evelyn Suart. (Her daughter Diana Gould was a noted ballerina and the second wife of Yehudi Menuhin.)\n\nThose who heard Scott play the piano commented on the extraordinary vitality of his playing, above all his always well judged rubato, and subtleties of tone and pedalling. These can be appreciated from the reissue on a Dutton CD (Collected Piano Music, vol. 1) of his performance (in the 1930s) of eight of his own pieces on piano rolls.\n\nScott married Rose Laure Allatini in May 1921. They had two children: Vivien Mary Scott (born 1923) and Desmond Cyril Scott (born 1926). He separated from Rose following World War II. In 1943, he met Marjorie Hartston, a clairvoyante, who remained his companion until his death, and persuaded him to go on composing, despite the indifference of the musical world to his work. Undeterred, he continued to compose up until the last three weeks of his life, dying at the age of 91. By the time of his death he was remembered for only a few popular pieces (such as \"Lotus Land\") that he had composed over sixty years before. His many books and pamphlets on occultism and alternative medicine always, however, found readers.\n\nThe first decade of the new millennium saw a revival of interest in his music, stimulated by a flood of recordings, discussed below.\n\nScott was essentially a late romantic composer, whose style was at the same time strongly influenced by impressionism. His harmony was notably exotic. If in his early works it was perhaps over-sweet (Alban Berg dismissed his music as 'mushy'), it became steadily more varied and more refined in his later years. Indeed, it is his late works (written between 1950 and his death) that are the most individual, with their ever-shifting harmonic colours and wayward inflections of phrase and mood, capturing perfectly the way the mind shifts, backwards and forwards, between reminiscence, regrets, and self-assertion.\n\nScott wrote around four hundred works (though the number is deceptive, since more than half of these were short songs or piano pieces). These include two mature symphonies, three operas, three piano concertos, concertos for violin, cello, oboe and harpsichord, and three double concertos (of which the scores are now lost), several overtures, four oratorios (\"Nativity Hymn\" (1913), \"Mystic Ode\" (1932), \"Ode to Great Men\" (1936), and \"Hymn of Unity\" (1947)), as well as a mass of chamber music (four mature quartets, five violin sonatas, three piano trios, and many others). Between 1903 and 1920 Scott wrote copiously for the piano. Most of these pieces were harmonically adventurous for their time and easy to play; they circulated widely in many countries of the world, in contrast to his more ambitious works, none of which received more than a handful of performances.\n\nScott was called the \"Father of modern British music\" by Eugene Goossens, and was also appreciated by Claude Debussy, Maurice Ravel, his close friend Percy Grainger, Richard Strauss and Igor Stravinsky. His experiments in free rhythm, generated by expanding musical motifs, above all in his First Piano Sonata of 1909, appear to have exerted an influence on Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring . He used to be known as 'the English Debussy', though this reflected little knowledge of Scott and little understanding of Debussy.\n\nAmong the orchestral music, the First Piano Concerto (1913-4), \"Disaster at Sea\" (a tone poem on the sinking of the \"Titanic\", composed in 1918-26, and published in a revised version with the title \"Neptune\" in 1935), the Violin Concerto (1928), and \"Neapolitan Rhapsody\" (published 1959). The shorter piano works suffer in the main from unimaginative form and texture, though the five 'Poems' (1912) are an important exception; more worthy of revival are the piano sonatas, especially the innovatory first (1909) and the intricate, wayward third (1956). The largest body of successful work is to be found in his chamber music, the Clarinet Quintet and Trio and the five violin sonatas being especially notable.\n\nThe years 2004-10 saw an extraordinary flood of recordings, including 4 CDs of his orchestral music (with the BBC Philharmonic under Martyn Brabbins), his complete piano music played by Leslie De'Ath on Dutton, and recordings of four of his violin sonatas by Clare Howick and Sophia Rahman. His Harpsichord Concerto received its premiere recording in 2011; the soloist was Michael Laus, who also conducted the Malta Philharmonic Orchestra for Cameo Classics. Live performances have been rarer, though the two mature symphonies (now numbered 3 and 4) received premieres in Manchester, the first in 2003 and the second in 2005.\n\nThe most recent recording is on Dutton Epoch, with Peter Donohoe and Raphael Wallfisch playing the early Piano Concerto and Cello Concerto respectively in reconstructions and completions by conductor Martin Yates. Yates also conducts the Overture \"Pelleas and Mellisanda\" on this recording with the BBC Concert Orchestra.\n\nThe \"Sonatina for Guitar\" (1927), commissioned by Andrés Segovia, was thought lost and had acquired almost legendary status among guitar historians. Rediscovered in 2001, it was hailed by Angelo Gilardino, Director of the Segovia Museum as \"one of the summits of the guitar’s repertoire of the 20th century\". \"Sonatina for Guitar\" has been recorded by Tilman Hoppstock on the Signum label and published by Bèrben Edizioni Musicali with one of Scott’s own paintings on the cover.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn addition to his work as a composer and performer, Scott wrote poetry and prose. He was fascinated by the occult and health foods, and described his beliefs as a blend of science, philosophy, and religion. In a whole series of books and pamphlets, he urged the sick, even those with cancer, to trust to diet and alternative medicine and avoid trained medics and surgery.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27430053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27430053", "title": "Deanna C. C. Peluso", "text": "Deanna C. C. Peluso\n\nDeanna C. C. Peluso (born 1979) is an American-Canadian musician, composer, music educator, author and researcher currently residing in Honolulu, HI and Vancouver, B.C.. She is the Project Manager for the artistic learning research group, MODAL Research at Simon Fraser University, as well as the Project Coordinator for RYME - Research For Youth, Music and Education (since 2009), and also is a research collaborator on the SSHRC funded research projects. Peluso combines her academic and experiential background in music, psychology, performance art, technology and education to fuel what is called a unique style of research that focuses on how youth engage in Participatory cultures, social media and artistic and musical learning.\n\nPeluso is an alumna of Simon Fraser University with bachelor's degrees in both Music and in Psychology from Simon Fraser University. Peluso also holds a Masters of Education in Educational and Organizational Leadership from the University of Victoria (UVIC), where her research on the motivations, benefits and persistence for mature students to pursue their graduate degrees led to her writing a book on her research and findings. She has now returned to Simon Fraser University, and is a PhD Candidate in the Faculty of Education.\n\nPeluso is an active participant at international and local scholarly conferences in media, music and psychology, and her research focuses on various projects and foundations where an importance is placed on artistic and musical learning and expression within technological societies. Peluso's research has also dealt with the fields of Cognitive Psychology and Memory studies. Her most recent research has been focusing on Music Education and Media literacy, as seen in her 2010 talks at the Media Literacy Conference in London, UK, as well as her focus at RYME - Research For Youth, Music and Education.\n\nPeluso's recent research has been featured on the Congress 2011 of Humanities and Social Sciences which is organized by the Canadian Federation for the Humanities and Social Sciences. An article on Peluso's research as a part of RYME discussed how the research group is bringing forth a new outlook on childhood education, the arts and the media. This article also recapped Peluso's and her colleagues' presentations at the Congress, and quoted Peluso as saying that \"Teachers facilitate the role of exploring these [technological and artistic] opportunities, learn from kids and offer youth empowerment. Everyone has knowledge of what the next person doesn’t.\"\n\nShe has been cited as stating that \"Digital mediums for communication, expression and multimodality engaging in one's own life, such as social media (e.g., Twitter) and interactive technology like iPads, enter the classroom in the pockets, bags and backpacks of many of the students and educators, yet only until recently have these digital media become a part of the educational environment. Curriculum designers and policy makers seem to be placing a focus on the role of technology within young people's lives\" \n\nPeluso is current located in the Faculty of Education at Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, B.C. working on a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Arts Education. In addition to her research in Music Education and Media literacy, she is the newly appointed (2012) Project Manager for MODAL Research Group in the Faculty of Education at Simon Fraser University, where a focus is placed on research into artistic learning. Peluso also continues as the Project Coordinator and a member of the ongoing research project, RYME - Research For Youth, Music and Education, which is a Simon Fraser University research project that looks at youth participation and engagement in musical activities. Peluso is involved in other arts and music education organizations, such as the Canadian Music Educators Association (CMEA), where she is a blog contributor and web administrator for the CMEA's Research to Practice blog.\n\nPeluso currently conducts educational research seminars and workshops on the Use of Technology within Academia and Educational Settings, Social Networking, Icebreakers and Music within the Classroom. Peluso also lectures on technology within education and using technology and the Arts to engage in multimodal and intuitive forms of expression and communication. Peluso has also been involved in teaching music to adult learners and learners with disabilities, by using various techniques that focus on technology, music and other forms of artistic expression.\n\nPeluso has recently been lecturing on the development of iOS applications for use within educational research, and provides seminars on implementing digital media within research and practice. Her work within the field of iOS App development has progress beyond uses for surveys and questionnaires and have now shown to involve developing complex social media based interactive Apps for the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch that can reach an audience that includes young children and adults.\n\nPeluso's research into social media has led to her giving workshops on how to use social networks to advance one's career after graduate school. Her background in the positive and negative aspects of online communication allowed her to demonstrate various ways to build social networks in a way that can assist in moving from the life of a grad student to a working professional.\n\nPeluso's focus on how participatory cultures can foster artistic and musical learning are influenced by her involvement in social media and [video] gaming. Through her experiences in graduate school and her involvement in the MMORPG World of Warcraft, she has developed parallels between the process of entering graduate school and the popular online role playing game. Her articles have been featured on the Simon Fraser University Dean of Graduate Studies website, where tips and tricks for graduate students are showcased.\n\nPeluso is a published author of the book \"Motivation, Purpose and Persistence: Pursuing a Leadership Degree: A Study Of Graduate Students' Motivations To Pursue A Degree In Educational Psychology and Leadership Studies\". The book is published by Dr. Müller Aktiengesellschaft & Co. located in Saarbrücken, Germany, which specializes in publishing books in the research industry. The book is a documentation of a qualitative and quantitative study of the motivations, support systems and reasons for students to persist in their graduate studies in Education. The book looks at the intrinsic and extrinsic motivations to commence and continue graduate studies, such as the external support systems of family or funding, the psychological barriers and the potential personal and financial benefits of completing a Masters or Doctoral degree in Education. Since a majority of the participants within the study in the book were educators, mainly teachers in the K-12 education system, the study was important in its search to discover the motives of the educators to pursue their post-graduate education, and whether the educators were more interested in personal growth or in financial gain by job advancement due to their additional degree and experience.\n\nPeluso's publication record in various peer-reviewed journals and academic publications includes articles on music education and the online environment, participatory cultures and the use of educational technology for artistic learning. In her co-authored article in the Canadian Music Educator, Peluso puts forth a set of standards for scholarly blogging.\n\nPeluso's research on the use of iPads within educational applications was published in the July 2012 edition of the British Journal of Educational Technology. She emphasized the fact that the young people of today are requiring a new system of education to accommodate the technological ways that they are learning and communicating. Peluso is quoted as stating: \n\nBased on Peluso's publications in journals on educational technology, she has presented views on iOS technologies (e.g. iPads) and their role in young people's lives as being concurrent with the paradigms on participatory cultures as defined by Henry Jenkins. Further, Peluso is quoted in various venues in questioning how technology can be implemented in the classroom, in a way that is relevant and beneficial to the learners, rather than as a way to meet a curricular goal.\n\nPeluso has been involved in various musical and performance groups since 2000, though according to her website, due to health problems in late 2008 onward, she does not seem to be active in any particular musical group or organization.\n\nPeluso has been composing for over 20 years, but is best known for her performed works that occurred between 2000 and 2007 inclusive. Peluso has an eclectic collection of written compositions written during and after the years she studied music composition at Simon Fraser University. During her Music Composition degree, Peluso collaborated with dancers, filmmakers, actors and with other performing artists to fuel her experience in the field, in music education and to build upon her 14 years of studying and performing Classical period music. Former professors, mentors and teachers included Martin Gotfrit, David McIntyre, and Owen Underhill. Peluso has composed music for not just sole instrumental performance, but has been involved in composing music for dance, theatre and various other performing art installations within the Vancouver area. It seems that her music, artworks and online presence typically are signed under the pseudonym or nickname — \"dccp\".\n\n\"2003-onward\"\n\n\nPeluso composed a piece for the Vancouver Symphony orchestra, \"The Music Box Circus\", which was performed in 2006 during the Jean Coulthard Readings at the Orpheum Theatre. \"The Music Box Circus\" includes the entire orchestra in its orchestration, and is about 5 minutes 20 seconds in length.\n\nThe Sonic Boom Festival is an annual composers festival each spring located at the Western Front in Vancouver, B.C.. Peluso's compositions have had numerous performances at this Performing Arts festival that showcases various composers and musicians from across Canada. Peluso's compositions have varied from a string trio, a saxophone quartet, to eclectic mixes of accordion, cello and percussion.\n\nPeluso has been a performer in various Performing Arts festivals and shows. She has performed music for independent film, dance accompaniment, theatre performances and numerous collaboration projects involving the fine and performing arts.\n\nPeluso has been an active participant in the Arts community, both in solo performance and as a part of musical groups or collaborations with theatre, dance or film. During 2003, Peluso performed in the House Performing Arts Festival, as a musician for the theatre group \"Un/Stuck\", which featured actors from the Greater Vancouver Regional District. In 2003, with the same theatre troupe she performed at Nextfest 2004, the Performing Arts Festival in Edmonton, Alberta.\n\nIn 2005, among her schedule of musical performances as a part of dance and performance art shows, she performed with Gamelan Alligator Joy, a performance group that plays a combination of traditional and contemporary Javanese Gamelan. Peluso performed with the same performance group at various other events around Vancouver, B.C. throughout 2005 and 2006.\n"}
{"id": "6144369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6144369", "title": "Doug Lamborn", "text": "Doug Lamborn\n\nDouglas L. Lamborn (born May 24, 1954) is the U.S. Representative for , in office since 2007. He is a member of the Republican Party. His district is based in Colorado Springs.\n\nBorn in Leavenworth, Kansas, Lamborn earned a B.S. in journalism from the University of Kansas in 1978 and J.D. from the University of Kansas School of Law in 1985. He moved to Colorado Springs, Colorado and became a private attorney focusing on business and real estate law.\n\nIn 1994, Lamborn was elected to the Colorado House of Representatives. In 1998, he was elected to the Colorado State Senate.\n\nHe was elected Republican House Whip in 1997. He was elected Senate President Pro-tem in 1999. Lamborn served in the Colorado Senate until winning a seat in Congress.\n\nWhile in the State Senate Lamborn sponsored the largest tax cut in Colorado State history, and was named the highest-ranking tax cutter in the Senate five times, by a conservative activist group called the Colorado Union of Taxpayers.\n\nLamborn was the ranking Republican on the Colorado State Military and Veterans Affairs, and Appropriations committees.\n\n\nOn February 16, 2006, Joel Hefley announced he would retire after 10 terms in Congress.\n\nIn the Republican primary to succeed him, Hefley backed his long-time aide, former administrative director Jeff Crank. The election was held on August 8, 2006, with Lamborn defeating Crank and four other candidates to win the party nomination in a contentious six-way race. In the Republican primary, he ran on conservative positions: opposing gun control, abortion except when the mother's life is threatened, federal funding of embryonic stem cell research, not providing public benefits to illegal immigrants, and new eminent domain rulings.\n\nHe ran against Lieutenant Colonel Jay Fawcett, the Democratic nominee for the open seat in Colorado's 5th congressional district. Lamborn won the election on November 7, 2006.\n\n\nJeff Crank and Major General Bentley Rayburn both challenged Lamborn in the 2008 Republican primary. Both lost to Lamborn in the 2006 primary. Lamborn won the primary election on August 12, 2008 with 45 percent of the 56,171 votes cast. Crank got 29 percent and Rayburn got 26 percent.\n\nLamborn defeated Democratic challenger Lieutenant Colonel Hal Bidlack in the 2008 election.\n\n\nLamborn was challenged by Democratic nominee Lieutenant Colonel Kevin Bradley. He won re-election.\n\n\nLamborn was challenged in the Republican primary by businessman Robert Blaha. Lamborn won 62–38 percent.He had the support of Phyllis Schlafly's Eagle Forum political action committee.\n\n\nLamborn was challenged by Democratic nominee Major General Irv Halter. He won with 59.8% of the vote.\n\n\nIn January 2018, Lamborn announced he would be running for re-election in the 2018 elections. He faces three challengers in the Republican primary. On April 23, the Colorado Supreme Court removed Lamborn from the Republican primary ballot because workers hired to collect petition signatures for his campaign were not Colorado residents.\n\nAn office of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency was established in Colorado Springs in Lamborn's district. The office opened in February 2009 and increased immigration enforcement agents in the area from two to ten. “The immediate need is to address those that have committed a crime and make sure they’re sent out of the country”, Lamborn said. However, this would not place in jeopardy employers who hire illegal immigrants in the first place or who pay these workers without any withholding tax or below the minimum wage.\n\nThere has also been a Brigade Combat Team in his district since December 2007. The Brigade Combat Team consisting of almost 5,000 soldiers, their families, support personnel as well as increased military construction.\n\n\"Congressional Quarterly\" said that through the first August recess, Lamborn had voted by strict partisan lines the most of any member in the U.S. House and more than any other Republican.\n\nHe led an effort among conservative Republicans to force the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to discard proposed regulations that would have affected accessibility to small arms ammunition, which were opposed by Second Amendment groups.\n\nIn February 2010, The \"National Journal\" named Lamborn the most conservative member of the U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nLamborn is one of the House Republicans leading the effort against public funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and NPR (National Public Radio). \"I have been seeking to push Big Bird out of the nest for over a year, based on the simple fact that we can no longer afford to spend taxpayer dollars on nonessential government programs. It's time for Big Bird to earn his wings and learn to fly on his own.\"\nOn August 24, 2007, Jonathan Bartha, who works for Focus on the Family (headquartered in Colorado Springs), and his wife Anna wrote a letter to the editor in a community newspaper expressing concerns about Lamborn's opposition to more restrictions on dog fighting. They were also concerned he had taken several campaign contributions from the gaming industry. A few days later, Lamborn allegedly left two voice mails threatening \"consequences\" if they didn't renounce their \"blatantly false\" letter. He also said that he would be \"forced to take other steps\" if the matter wasn't resolved \"on a Scriptural level.\" The Barthas were shocked by the messages, and Anna Bartha called Lamborn's behavior \"not anything we would ever anticipate an elected official would pursue.\"\n\nAs a freshman representative, Lamborn introduced legislation directing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a national cemetery for veterans in the Pikes Peak region of Colorado. \nOn September 20, 2017, the Veterans Administration awarded a $31.8 Million contract to G&C Fab-Con, LLC, to begin construction on the Pikes Peak National Cemetery in Colorado Springs. Over 13,000 new burial spaces will be available in 2019 and later development will accommodate an estimated 95,000 total spaces. The contract has a Fall 2019 completion date. \nLamborn is a signer of Americans for Tax Reform’s Taxpayer Protection Pledge.\n\nIn 2008 Lamborn signed a pledge sponsored by Americans for Prosperity promising to vote against any Global Warming legislation that would raise taxes.\n\nLamborn voted in favor of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Lamborn claims the bill will benefit craft beer breweries, many of which are located in Colorado, a benefit touted by Lamborn. Lamborn claims the tax code was simplified in the bill, specifically that people would be filing taxes by \"sending a postcard,\" however, the tax filing process will remain the same, without simplification.\n\nOn July 29, 2011, Lamborn appeared on a Denver radio program to discuss the debt crisis and the failure of Democrats and Republicans to reach a compromise on the problem. Lamborn stated \"Now, I don't even want to have to be associated with [President Obama]. It's like touching a tar baby and you get it, you're stuck, and you're a part of the problem now and you can't get away.\" The term tar baby is sometimes considered to be a racial slur used towards African-Americans. Former Colorado House Speaker Terrance Carroll, an African-American, replied, “Looking beyond the fact that Congressman Lamborn's entire comment is nonsensical, his use of the term 'tar baby' is unfortunate because [of] the historical connotation of that term when used in conjunction with African Americans.\"\n\nOn August 1, 2011, Lamborn apologized for his use of the slur, \"When I said 'tar baby', I was talking economic quagmire that our country is finding ourselves in because of poor economic policy from the White House. I could have used a better term.\"\n\nOn January 23, 2012, Lamborn announced he would not be attending the President's State of the Union address. According to his spokeswoman Catherine Mortenson, \"Congressman Lamborn is doing this to send a clear message that he does not support the policies of Barack Obama, that they have hurt our country\", and believed Obama was “in full campaign mode and will use the address as an opportunity to bash his political opponents.\"\n\nOn April 11, 2013, Lamborn read out in an open session broadcast on C-SPAN an unclassified section from a classified report on North Korean nuclear capabilities. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs refused to confirm the classified report. The Pentagon later confirmed that the Defense Intelligence Agency had marked that sentence as unclassified mistakenly.\n\nDoug Lamborn is one of the 80 members of the House that signed a letter to the speaker of the house, urging the threat of a government shutdown to defund Obamacare. This group was named the \"Suicide Caucus\". He voted against the measure that finally ended the shutdown on October 16, 2013\nSeptember 13, 2014, during a question & answer part of his speech, Doug Lamborn made controversial remarks concerning President Obama's foreign policy. According to reports, Doug Lamborn is quoted to have said \"A lot of us are talking to the generals behind the scenes, saying, ‘Hey, if you disagree with the policy that the White House has given you, let’s have a resignation. You know, let's have a public resignation, and state your protest, and go out in a blaze of glory!'\" \n\nLamborn supported President Donald Trump's 2017 executive order to impose a temporary ban on entry to the U.S. to citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries. He stated that “By taking steps to temporarily stop refugee admittance from nations that are hotbeds of terrorist activity, the President is taking prudent action to ensure that his national security and law enforcement teams have the strategies and systems in place that they will need to protect and defend America.”\n\nLamborn was among GOP members of the House who did not support Speaker Paul Ryan's March 2017 effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. Seeking a more thorough repeal of the healthcare law, Lamborn said that, \"Right now Obamacare stays in place. That’s bad for the American people and it doesn’t leave Republicans an immediate opportunity to carry out their pledge to repeal and replace Obamacare. We need to regroup and very soon find a way to do that.” Subsequent town hall meetings in April 2017 underscored the tension of Lamborn's relationship with the initial policies of the Trump Administration and voters in Lamborn's district.\n\nLamborn supported Senate bill 2195, a bill that would allow the President of the United States to deny visas to any ambassador to the United Nations who has been found to have been engaged in espionage activities or a terrorist activity against the United States or its allies and may pose a threat to U.S. national security interests.\n\nThe bill was written in response to Iran's choice of Hamid Aboutalebi as their ambassador. Aboutalebi was controversial due to his involvement in the Iran hostage crisis, in which of a number of American diplomats from the US embassy in Tehran were held captive in 1979. Lamborn said that selection by Iran of Aboutalebi as their U.N. ambassador was \"unconscionable and unacceptable\". He argued that this legislation was needed in order to give the President the \"authority he needs to deny this individual a visa.\"\n\n\n\nLamborn does not support increasing minimum wage and believes that at least 500,000 Americans will lose their jobs as a result of wage increases. Lamborn supports social security reform.\n\nLamborn does not support Common Core State Standards. He has described Common Care as \"deeply flawed\" and said it \"lowers educational standards,\" and removes parental influence over children's educations.\n\nLamborn believes federal fees that impact the energy industry regarding climate change should not exist.\n\nHe does not support any restrictions on gun sales.\n\nLamborn has called the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) a \"disaster.\" He supports the repeal, replacement and defunding of the program. He wants it to be replaced with \"conservative, free-market solutions.\"\n\nHe supports the reform of Medicare and says it is a \"wasteful entitlement.\"\n\nLamborn is \"100% pro-life.\" Lamborn opposes same-sex marriage. He \"does not support amnesty of any kind\" and supports further efforts to secure the border. In 2015 in response to Christmas controversies, he introduced Resolution 564, receiving 35 cosponsors, to assert Christmas in public.\n\nHe opposes the legalization of marijuana.\n\n"}
{"id": "642260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=642260", "title": "Dukes of Brabant family tree", "text": "Dukes of Brabant family tree\n\nThis is a family tree of the Dukes of Brabant from 1139 up to 1430. Godfrey I, count of Leuven, became Duke of Lower Lotharingia in 1106. Henry I became the first Duke of Brabant in 1183/1184.\n\nSee also:\n"}
{"id": "21757466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21757466", "title": "Ellie Campbell (author)", "text": "Ellie Campbell (author)\n\nEllie Campbell is a pseudonym for sisters, Pam Burks and Lorraine Campbell, who have co-authored and published five novels together, Lorraine Campbell living in Boulder, Colorado and Pam Burks in Reigate, Surrey. They collaborate by email, Skype and telephone. Both sisters were born in Scotland and lived much of their early lives in Edinburgh, Bognor Regis and London. They wrote short stories independently for many years before deciding to become a writing team. They write women's fiction, mostly set in Britain, featuring humor and romance but their contemporary flawed characters and dramatic situations often revolve around heroines who are slightly older than the average chick lit novel, sometimes married with children or divorced single mothers and with a mystery or even a murder element. They are usually classified as chick lit, satire or mystery categories.\n\nTheir first book, \"How to Survive Your Sisters\" was originally published by Random House. in 2008, followed by a second, \"When Good Friends go Bad\" in 2009. In 2014 the sisters reverted the UK rights and republished both books independently with Across the Pond Press through Amazon. Both novels are also published in Italian and German by Mondadori in Italy, in Germany and also translated in Serbia.\n\nWith their third novel, \"Looking For La La\", - a funny chicklit mystery - Ellie Campbell decided to join the growing ranks of indie authors selling in ebook format as well as paperback through Amazon's KDP program. Looking For La La was followed by a sequel -\"To Catch A Creeper: a Crouch End Confidential Mystery\" and in April 2015, they published their fifth book with, \"Million Dollar Question\". Their books frequently appear high in the Amazon bestseller charts in the USA, UK and Australia.\n\nIn 2014, How To Survive Your Sisters and Looking For La La were also produced as audiobooks with Audible.com, narrated by Elizabeth Klett and Stevie Zimmerman respectively.\n\nThey are a regular presence on social media with Facebook and Twitter\n\n"}
{"id": "20369784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20369784", "title": "Esther Anderson (Australian actress)", "text": "Esther Anderson (Australian actress)\n\nEsther Jackie Anderson (born 13 June 1979) is an Australian actress and model. She is best known for her role as Charlie Buckton on the Australian soap opera \"Home and Away\". She was nominated for a Gold Logie Award at the 2010 and 2012 Logies.\n\nAnderson was a successful model. She was based in Japan for six years and has travelled to Tokyo, Osaka, Hong Kong, Korea and Europe for work. She is signed to Chadwick Models. She has modelled for Patons, a knitting company. Also for Bride, Everybody and Zenzue.\n\nAnderson began her television career in Japan appearing in ads, during which she decided to move back to Melbourne to take acting courses as she wanted to begin acting and presenting. In 2007, Anderson landed a role on the Victorian version of Australian travel show \"Postcards\". She remained in the role for a year until she had the chance to audition for \"Home and Away\". Anderson won the role of Charlie Buckton in 2008. She decided to quit the role in 2011 after three years and she filmed her final scenes in August that year.\n\nAnderson later starred in a short film titled \"Breathless\" playing the role of Jodie, a woman in mourning over her deceased child. In August 2012, it was announced Anderson had landed a role in the pilot of \"Siberia\", which was filmed in Canada. On 25 November 2012, Debbie Schipp from the \"Herald Sun\" reported that Anderson would return to \"Home and Away\" in December to shoot \"a handful of episodes\" to be broadcast during the following year.\n\nIn 2015, Anderson is a contestant in the fourth season of \"The Celebrity Apprentice Australia\".\n\nAnderson was in a relationship with fellow \"Home and Away\" actor Conrad Coleby, from 2008 till 2010, and with footballer Joel Selwood in 2012. She began dating Englishman Howard Moggs in December 2014. They got engaged in February 2016, and married in Geelong in February 2017. In April 2018, Anderson announced she was expecting the couple's first child, and she gave birth to their son in August.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292262", "title": "François Ngeze", "text": "François Ngeze\n\nFrançois Ngeze (born in Bujumbura Province) was the head of state of Burundi from 21 October 1993 to 27 October 1993. He was chosen by the military Committee of Public Salvation, a group of army officers that overthrew the democratically elected government of president Melchior Ndadaye (who was killed during the coup).\n\nNgeze, one of the few prominent Hutu members of UPRONA (Union for National Progress) at the time, was interior minister in the government of Pierre Buyoya, who was defeated by Ndadaye in elections held on 1 June 1993.\n\nFollowing widespread condemnation of the coup, the Committee of Public Salvation was dissolved on 27 October. Sylvie Kinigi, prime minister in the Ndadaye government, took over as acting president.\n"}
{"id": "40900469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40900469", "title": "Gordon Muortat Mayen", "text": "Gordon Muortat Mayen\n\nGordon Muortat Mayen Maborjok (1922–2008) was a South Sudanese veteran politician and a struggler for the rights and freedom of the South Sudanese people. He was the President of the Nile Provisional Government (NPG) which led Anyanya I; Southern Sudan's first armed resistance to Khartoum which started in 1955. Muortat also served as Vice-President of the Southern Front (SF) and Foreign Minister in the Southern Sudan Provisional Government (SSPG).\n\nGordon Muortat Mayen was born in 1922 at Karagok village 10 miles South East of Rumbek. His father was a local chief of Patiop Clan of the Agar Dinka. Muortat was educated at Akot elementary from 1936-1942. He then attended Loka Nugent Junior Secondary School in Western Equatoria from 1942-1945. In 1951 he was among the first Southern Sudanese to graduate from Sudan Police College and was commissioned to police inspector where he rose through the ranks to become Chief Inspector of Police.\n\nIn 1957, Muortat was denied a transfer to the Southern Sudan, so he resigned his position and joined the Sudan Civil Administration. He was appointed assistant district commissioner and served in many places in the Bahr el-Ghazal and Upper Nile provinces. In 1965, under the transitional government of Prime Minister Sirr Al-Khatim Al-Khalifa, Muortat was appointed to be Minister of Works and Mineral Resources in his cabinet. However, when Prime Minister Muhammad Ahmad Mahjub came to office, Muortat was dismissed.\n\nIn 1964, Gordon Muortat became one of the founders of the Southern Front (SF), a political party that would represent the rights of the people of Southern Sudan. He headed the Southern Front delegation in the Round Table Conference between the South and North in 1965 and is remembered for demanding that the South be given the right to self-determination. He held this view due to the fact that Southern Sudanese were not involved in the politics which led to the so-called independence of the Sudan from the colonial power in 1956. He therefore argued that South Sudanese must be given the right to determine their political future in a referendum, to be carried out in the South which should be supervised and monitored internationally. This view was also shared by other members of the Southern Front, namely Clement Mboro, Bona Malwal and Hilary Paul Logali. The great massacres of Juba, Wau and all over the South that were carried out by the Sudanese army in July 1965 convinced Gordon Muortat that the Northern Arab rulers were not interested in the peaceful resolution of the 'South Sudan Question'. Thus in August 1965 at the meeting of the Southern Front executive committee, he proposed that the party should be dissolved and that the entire committee should move into exile with the objective of merging with the Anyanya political and military wings.\n\nMuortat joined the Anyanya 1 insurgency, fighting in the First Sudanese Civil War to liberate the territories of Southern Sudan in 1967 and was appointed foreign minister in the Southern Sudan Provisional Government (SSPG) under Aggrey Jaden. After the collapse of the SSPG due to internal political wrangling, the second Anya-Nya One government, the Nile Provisional Government (NPG) was formed. Gordon Muortat Mayen was elected unanimously as president, with his army fighting a fully fledged war against the north, advocating for the complete independence of the South. During this time, Southern Sudan was renamed the Nile Republic with its citizens being referred to as Nileans. The name Southern Sudan was rejected by Muortat and his government due to the name being just a reference to a geographic zone which has little relevance to the people of the Southern Sudan. It is also a name which was used by colonial powers to inadequately describe the Nilotic and Nilo-Hamitic tribes living on the upper region of the river Nile, first by the Egyptians, and later by the British. Dr. John Garang de Mabior, future leader of the SPLA, was among one of the batches of Muortat's soldiers sent to Israel for military training under the NPG.\n\nThe NPG was dissolved in 1970, after the failure to restore Israeli arms shipments to their forces. The weapons were instead being diverted to Joseph Lagu who formed the Southern Sudan Liberation Movement (SSLM) in January 1971 after staging a successful coup d'état against Muortat and his rebel government. At the time, Andrew Makur Thou, commander of the Anyanya forces under the NPG was willing to continue to fight under Muortat's leadership and quell the coup attempt, however Gordon Muortat declined. In a 1999 interview, Muortat, talking on the dissolution of the NPG stated, \"I went to the bush in order to fight for the liberation of the South Sudan. And since Lagu had managed to secure arms for the liberation of our people, I did not see any reason to continue with a parallel struggle. So I decided to stand down. Because it is my belief that South Sudan cannot be liberated from the Arabs unless all of the Africans in the South unite and fight as one people, for one goal, the independence of South Sudan\". He encouaged all loyal forces to join Lagu and continue the fight against the Arab dominated government in the North. While Muortat was leader of the Southern movement, he declined offers of ceasefire with Khartoum as he was not willing to accept the terms Gaafar Nimeiry was offering; local autonomy for the region of Southern Sudan. He was only willing to enter peace talks if the succession of Southern Sudan was on the agenda. Shortly after Joseph Lagu had taken over power as the leader of the movement, the SSLM under Lagu, entered peace negotiations with Khartoum to form the Addis Ababa Agreement which accepted regional autonomy for the South.\n\nIn 1971, Gordon Muortat was elected president of the African National Front, which was one of the southern factions that were against the Addis Ababa negotiations and did not actively participate in them, however they sent a clear message to negotiators on how proceedings could move. This included; that talks ought to be held between North and Southern true Representatives i.e. those mandated and not opportunists acting on complicity with the Arabs and their agents. Talks ought to take place without any pre-condition like the Arabs imposition of Local Autonomy. The talks ought to take place under the auspices of impartial organisations like the UN or the OAU. The Arabs must know that what they are now committing in Addis Ababa will never help in defeating the Southern Sudan. However, despite this, the Addis Ababa peace agreement was signed in 1972. Gordon Muortat did not agree with the contents and terms of the agreement, calling it a sell out and fraudulent. He believed that the Southern people were not given the chance to self-determination and a return to civil war will be needed in order for South Sudanese to achieve their true unalienable rights. He continued the protest against the agreement and remained in exile moving to the UK.\n\nDuring the period of peace after the 1972 agreement, the former Ayna-nya rebels were absorbed into the Sudanese army, however many were discontented, and some chose to return to the bush in 1975 and headed to Ethiopia. In 1975, Gordon Muortat along with the other Southern Sudanese politicians in exile, formed the Anyanya Patriotic Front, a liberation movement with the same aims as SSPG, NPG and the first Anyanya; to liberate the South as a separate country from the North. Muortat was elected as the President of the movement, other notable high-profile southern politicians that formed the APF were Elia Duang Arop; the movement's Secretary General and former minister in the NPG, Francis Mayar Akoon, Agolong Chol and many others who had disapproved of the Addis Ababa Agreement. The Ethiopian government agreed to station the mutineers, which formed the military wing of the APF, in a camp called Bilpam, which later became the first full-fledged SPLA battalion in 1984. Gordon Muortat and his group went on organising his 10,000 strong, majority Nuer troops in Bilpam, amongst the troops were the Late Vincent Kuany Latjor, Pagan Amum and Deng Alor. Later on the Late Samuel Gai Tut also joined the rebellion. A BBC reporter mistakenly labelled the Anya-nya Patriotic Front as Anyanya two, knowing that the movement was the continuation of the first Anya-nya one movement, However, Muortat denounced the splinter group that went on to fight with the SPLA that also became known as Anyanya II because they deviated from the original ideals of the APF. The new movement, the APF was confronted with many difficulties, launched as a genuine separatist movement to liberate the South Sudan and establish an independent African State, Muortat and the politicians heading it were not ready to entertain any ambiguous directives from their hosts and get dragged into the Communist demagoguery. As a result, the Ethiopian government dismissed them in refusing to provide financial and logistical support. The lack of financial and logistical support, as it was not forthcoming from anywhere, eventually led to their dissolution. Gordon Muortat however, was able to secure weaponry from Col. Muammar Ghaddafi due to Libya's fractured relations with the Khartoum government. The arms were pledged for the movement in Southern Sudan and were then released by Muortat to the SPLA, who later took up arms against Khartoum.\n\nAs Muortat had predicted the Addis-Ababa agreement did not live long. Resource infringements and marginalisation of the South by the North led to increased unrest in the South. In 1983 President Gaafar Nimeiry declared all Sudan an Islamic state under Shari'a law, including the non-Islamic majority southern region, forcing southerners once again to take to the bush for the second struggle for the liberation of the Sudan, this time under Late Dr. John Garang.\n\nGordon Muortat's leadership and resolve were the driving force that continued armed liberation revival in Southern Sudan. Also inspiring many other South Sudanese politicians and students' organizations involved in the liberation struggle, notably the SOSSA and NAM. Despite his lengthy period of exile in Europe, Gordon Muortat remained an influential figure in South Sudanese politics. As a revered figure, his residence in London served as the \"Mecca\" for many South Sudanese political leaders of various political stripes and viewpoints in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn 1994 Gordon Muortat was appointed as Personal Advisor to the SPLM/SPLA Chairman Dr. John Garang de Mabior and a member of the National Liberation Council. He participated in the Machakos peace talks in Kenya in 2004 with the government of Sudan. At the talks he insistently warned the SPLM delegates to learn from the experience of the Addis Ababa Agreement in 1972.\n\nFrom 2006 and onwards, Muortat became an MP in the South Sudan Legislative Council representing his constituency in Rumbek. In his inaugural speech to the SSLA he reiterated his concerns about the length of the CPA and on tribalism. On 12 April 2008, Muortat died from natural causes while on a recess from parliament-having achieved so much in his life. He was very proud of the SPLA/M achievements especially that the road to the realisation of the Southerner's freedom was within sight. Gordon Muortat was given a state funeral and was laid to rest at Rumbek Freedom Square, attended by thousands of citizens who had come to pay their last respects to a man who was remembered by many as a freedom fighter and defender of the rights of the people of South Sudan. Notable speakers at the occasion were President Salva Kiir Mayardit, Abel Alier; former Vice President of the Republic of Sudan and President of the defunct High Executive Council for Southern Sudan, Isaiah Kulang Mabor, Madam Rebecca Nyandeng De Mabior, Mr. Andrew Makur Thou, Mr. Bona Malual, Mr. Clement Wani Konga and Mr. Daniel Awet Akot, then governor of Lakes State. In his address to the mourning citizens of the South Sudanese town of Rumbek, the President of the Republic of South Sudan, Gen. Salva Kiir Mayardit, reminded the people of the selfless leader, who spent all his life struggling for the cause of the people of South Sudan. \"It is now up to us, the present generation to transform Hon. Gordon's dreams into a reality, after achieving the Comprehensive Peace Agreement where the right to Self Determination for the people of South Sudan is enshrined,\" stated the President. President Kiir declared 3 days of state mourning and all the flags in Lakes State fly at half mast.\n\nMuortat is widely praised by South Sudanese from all tribes due to his impartialness, his strong stance against tribalism and his vision of seeing Southerners united as equals. He is also greatly respected for his constant and consistent stance against the Khartoum regimes and his lack of compromise regardless of what he was offered by the Sudanese governments. Especially during the period after the Addis Ababa Agreement where he was under self-imposed exile due to his refusal to participate in the Southern Sudanese autonomous government under Nimeiri which he saw as unjust and a sell-out. He encouraged the idea of a continued struggle while many other Southern leaders and politicians embraced the peace and saw the military struggle as over. His stance gave hope to many Southerners who were becoming increasingly disillusioned by the Addis Ababa Agreement and the government. During this time was he expelled from many African countries by their government's such as Zaire and Uganda, due to their unwillingness to be seen as nations that are hosting such a high-profile rebel against the Khartoum government. Muortat was finally granted asylum by the UK after these expulsions.\n\nHe is survived by his wife Sarah Piath Ahoc, 10 children and 27 grandchildren.\nIn his memory, the Gordon Muortat Mayen Foundation has been set up, which seeks to help the people of South Sudan through various schemes and projects.\n"}
{"id": "2491129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2491129", "title": "Gunther Gebel-Williams", "text": "Gunther Gebel-Williams\n\nGunther Gebel-Williams (September 12, 1934 - July 19, 2001) was an animal trainer for Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus from 1968-1990.\n\nGebel was born in Schweidnitz, Lower Silesia (now Świdnica, Poland). As a child he and his mother emigrated to Germany when Silesia was ceded to Poland after World War II. His father was still missing in the Soviet Union when he and his mother started working for Circus Williams in Germany in 1947. When the owner suddenly died, his widow asked the then 18-year-old Gebel to train and take over which began his career as an animal trainer. He then took on the additional surname Williams.\n\nGebel came to prominence during the early days of television when the circus was still a popular form of entertainment. His appearances on television shows like \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" and \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\", in addition to his work with the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, accelerated his renown as a tamer primarily of elephants and tigers. He had a son, Mark, and a daughter, Tina. Their mother is Sigrid Gebel. After retiring from the ring, he took a management position as Vice President of Animal Care for the circus. He passed down his skills as an animal trainer and performer to his son, Mark.\n\nHe died of a brain tumor on July 19, 2001 in Venice, Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "56732710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56732710", "title": "Gustavo Arribas", "text": "Gustavo Arribas\n\nGustavo Arribas is the Director-General of the Federal Intelligence Agency of Argentina. He was appointed to the position in December 2015.\n\nPrior to heading the Federal Intelligence Agency, Arribas was an agent and broker for professional soccer players.\n\nArribas was accused by Brazilian police of receiving $850,000 through a money-laundering scheme.\n\nArribas was also investigated for possibly accepting a bribe of $600,000 from Odebrecht in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "449958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449958", "title": "Gustáv Husák", "text": "Gustáv Husák\n\nGustáv Husák (; 10 January 1913 – 18 November 1991) was a Slovak politician, president of Czechoslovakia and a long-term Secretary General of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (1969–1987). His rule is known as the period of the so-called \"Normalization\" after the Prague Spring.\n\nGustáv Husák was born as a son of an unemployed worker in Pozsonyhidegkút, Pozsony County, Kingdom of Hungary, Austria-Hungary (now part of Bratislava, Slovakia as Dúbravka). He joined the Communist Youth Union at the age of sixteen while studying at the grammar school in Bratislava. In 1933, when he started his studies at the Law Faculty of the Comenius University in Bratislava, he joined the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KSČ) which was banned from 1938 to 1945. During World War II he was periodically jailed by the Jozef Tiso government for illegal Communist activities, and he was one of the leaders of the 1944 Slovak National Uprising against Nazi Germany and Tiso. Husák was a member of the Presidium of the Slovak National Council from 1 September to 5 September 1944.\n\nAfter the war, he began a career as a government official in Slovakia and party functionary in Czechoslovakia. From 1946 to 1950, he was the head of the devolved administration of Slovakia, and as such he strongly contributed to the liquidation of the anti-communist Christian democratic Democratic Party of Slovakia. That party had taken 62% in the 1946 elections in Slovakia (whereas in the Czech part of the republic, the clear winner were the Communists), thus complicating the Communist ambitions for a swift taking of power. Husák's loyalty to the central organs of the Czechoslovak Communist party as well as his considerable talent for body politics and a ruthless approach to political opponents contributed largely to the crushing of the Democratic dissent in Slovakia and subjugating the popular opinion in the country to the prevailing political currents.\n\nIn 1950, he fell victim to a Stalinist purge of the party leadership, and was sentenced to life imprisonment, spending the years from 1954 to 1960 in the Leopoldov Prison. A convinced Communist, he always viewed his imprisonment as a gross misunderstanding, which he periodically stressed in several letters of appeal addressed to the party leadership. It is generally acknowledged that the then party leader and president Antonín Novotný repeatedly declined to pardon Husák, assuring his comrades that \"you do not know what he is capable of if he comes to power\".\n\nAs part of the De-Stalinization period in Czechoslovakia, Husák's conviction was overturned and his party membership restored in 1963. By 1967 he had become a critic of Novotný and the KSČ's neo-Stalinist leadership. In April 1968, during the Prague Spring under new party leader and fellow Slovak Alexander Dubček, Husák became a vice-premier of Czechoslovakia, responsible for overseeing reforms in Slovakia.\n\nAs the Soviet Union grew increasingly alarmed by Dubček's liberal reforms in 1968 (Prague Spring), Husák, originally Dubček's ally and a moderate supporter of the reform programme, began calling for caution. After the Soviets invaded Czechoslovakia in August and he participated in the Czechoslovak-Soviet negotiations between the kidnapped Dubček and Leonid Brezhnev in Moscow, he suddenly became a leader of those party members calling for the reversal of Dubček's reforms. An account for his pragmatism was given in one of his official speeches in Slovakia after the 1968 events, during which he ventured a rhetorical question, asking where his opponents (supporters of opposition against the Soviet Union) want to find those \"friends\" of Czechoslovakia (countries in Europe) that would come to support the country (against Soviet troops). \n\nSupported by Moscow, he was appointed leader of the Communist Party of Slovakia in as early as August 1968, and he succeeded Dubček as first secretary (title changed to general secretary in 1971) of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia in April 1969. He reversed Dubček's reforms and purged the party of its liberal members in 1969–1971. In 1975, Husák was elected President of Czechoslovakia. During the two decades of Husák's leadership, Czechoslovakia became one of Moscow's most loyal allies. \n\nIn the first years following the invasion, Husák managed to appease the outraged civil population by providing a relatively satisfactory living standard and avoiding any overt reprisals like was the case in the 1950s. His regime was not a complete return to the heavy-handed Stalinism that prevailed during the first 20 years of Communist rule in the country. At the same time, the people's rights were somewhat more restricted than was the case in János Kádár's Hungary and Josip Broz Tito's Yugoslavia. Indeed, on the cultural level the level of repression approached that seen in Erich Honecker's East Germany and even Nicolae Ceauşescu's Romania. Under the cover of everyday stability, there was a permanent campaign of repression by the secret police (StB) targeted at the outspoken dissidents represented later by Charter 77 as well as hundreds of unknown individuals who happened to be targets of the StB's pre-emptive strikes. The repression intensified over the years as Husák grew more conservative.\n\nStarting in the early 1970s, Husák allowed those who had been purged in the aftermath of Prague Spring to rejoin the party. However, they were required to publicly distance themselves from the \"errors\" they had committed.\n\nThe latter part of Husák's tenure saw a struggle within the Politburo over whether to adopt Gorbachev-style reforms. While the hardliners, led by Vasil Bilak, opposed any restructuring, moderates led by Prime Minister Lubomir Strougal strongly favoured reform. Husák himself stayed neutral until April 1987, when he announced a somewhat half-hearted reform program scheduled to start in 1991.\n\nLater that year, however, Husák yielded his post as general secretary to Miloš Jakeš in response to a desire for younger leaders (Jakeš and Ladislav Adamec) to share in power.\n\nOn November 24, 1989, the entire Presidum of the Communist Party, including Husák, resigned. The party officially abandoned power four days later. Husák remained as president until 10 December, when he was forced to swear in the country's first non-Communist government in over 40 years. He resigned just hours after presiding over the formal end of the regime he had largely created. In a desperate attempt to rehabilitate its image ahead of the first free elections in 44 years, the Communist Party expelled him in February 1990. He died, almost forgotten, on 18 November 1991, at the age of 78.\n\nThere is still some question about Husák's moral responsibility for the last two decades of Communist rule in Czechoslovakia. After its collapse, Husák kept saying that he was just trying to diminish the aftermath of the Soviet invasion and had to constantly resist pressure from hard line party Stalinists such as Bilak, Alois Indra and the like. It is true that in the early 1970s, he personally pushed for an early withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Czechoslovak territory, which did not happen until 1991; this may be ascribed to his pragmatic attempts to ease the situation and to give an impression that things were leaning toward \"normality\". \n\nHowever, there are many irrefutable facts convicting him of a great deal of personal contribution to the regime's nature. As the General Secretary of the Party, he was well able and willing to control the repressive state apparatus. There are many documented cases of appeals from politically persecuted persons, but almost none of them was given Husák's attention. As the overall decay of Czechoslovak society was becoming more and more obvious in the 1980s, Husák became a politically impotent puppet of events. \n\nGustáv Husák was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union on 9 January 1983.\n\nHusák confessed to a Catholic priest before his death, having previously been an atheist. On his deathbed in 1991, Husák received the sacrament of reconciliation from a Catholic archbishop, Ján Sokol. \nAccording to Chapter 7.2.1 in the book Michal Macháček: Gustáv Husák, Vyšehrad, 2017, the whole story of confession is a pure nonsense and the product of catholic propaganda.\n\nCommunist Party of Czechoslovakia/KSČ (prohibited 1938, dissolved 1939-1945)\n\nCommunist Party of Slovakia/KSS (illegal 1939-1944/1945)\n\nSlovak National Council (\"Slovenská národná rada\") (during World War II a resistance parliament-government, since 1968 the Slovak parliament)\n\nCouncil of Commissioners (\"Zbor povereníkov\") (a quasi government responsible for Slovakia)\n\nCzechoslovak Parliament (called National Assembly and since 1968 Federal Assembly)\n\nCzechoslovak government\n\nPresident of Czechoslovakia\n\n\n\n\n\"Speeches and Writings\", a publication from 1986.\n"}
{"id": "4195637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4195637", "title": "Hans Holzer", "text": "Hans Holzer\n\nHans Holzer (26 January 1920 – 26 April 2009) was an American paranormal researcher and author. He wrote more than 120 books on supernatural and occult subjects for the popular market as well as several plays, musicals, films, and documentaries, and hosted a television show, \"Ghost Hunter\" (not to be confused with \"Ghost Hunters\").\n\nHolzer was born in Vienna, Austria, the son of Martha (Stransky) and Leo Holzer, a businessman. His interest in the supernatural was sparked at a young age by stories told to him by his uncle Henry. He went on to study archaeology and ancient history at the University of Vienna but seeing that war was imminent, his family decided it was unsafe to stay in Austria and left the country for New York City in 1938. He studied Japanese at Columbia University and, after studying comparative religion and parapsychology, claimed to have obtained a Ph.D. at a school called the London College of Applied Science. He went on to teach parapsychology at the New York Institute of Technology. Holzer wrote more than 120 books on ghosts and the afterlife.\n\nHis extensive involvement in researching the supernatural included investigating The Amityville Horror and some of the most prominent haunted locations around the world. He also worked with well-known trance mediums such as Ethel Johnson-Meyers, Sybil Leek, and Marisa Anderson. Holzer has been credited with creating the term \"The Other Side\" (already in use, however, in nineteenth-century spiritualism) or in full \"The Other Side of Life\". He is also sometimes credited with having coined the term ghost hunter, which was the title of his first book on the paranormal published in 1963. However, an earlier book by Harry Price published in 1936 was titled \"Confessions of a Ghost Hunter\".\n\nIn 1970, Holzer published a study of spirit photography called \"Psychic Photography: Threshold of a New Science?\". The book included photographs taken by the spirit photographer John Myers.\n\nHolzer believed in life after death and the existence of ghosts, spirits, and \"stay behinds\". Ghosts were, according to him, imprints left in the environment which could be \"picked up\" by sensitive people. Spirits were intelligent beings who could interact with the living, while \"stay behinds\" were those who found themselves earth-bound after death. He also believed in reincarnation and the existence of \"levels of consciousness\".\n\nHolzer was a proponent of psychic archaeology, which has been widely criticized as pseudoscience.\n\nHolzer was mentioned in Nathan Fielder's television show, \"Nathan for You\". A Psychic in the show claimed his mother was deemed the 'Queen of the Psychics' by Holzer himself.\n\nHolzer and his wife Countess Catherine Geneviève Buxhoeveden, a sixth-generation descendent of Russian Empress Catherine the Great, had two daughters. The marriage was eventually dissolved.\n\nHolzer's most famous investigation was into The Amityville Horror case. In January 1977, Holzer and spiritual medium Ethel Meyers entered 112 Ocean Avenue in Amityville, New York. Meyers claimed that the house had been built over an ancient Native American burial ground and the angry spirit of a Shinnecock Indian Chief - \"Rolling Thunder\" - had possessed the previous occupant, Ronald Defeo Jr., driving him to murder his family. Photographs taken at the scene revealed curious anomalies such as the halos which appeared in the supposed images of bullet marks made in the original 1974 murders. Holzer's claim that the house was built on Indian sacred land was, however, denied by the local Amityville Historical Society and it was pointed out that it was the Montaukett Indians, and not the Shinnecocks, who had been the original settlers in the area. However, Indian burial sites have been found all over Long Island, including Amityville, so no one has been able to confirm or deny the burial of an Indian chief on or near the 108 Ocean Avenue property. Holzer went on to write several books about the subject, both fiction and non-fiction.\n\nHolzer's endorsement of psychics in ghost hunting was criticized in an article for the \"Journal for the Society for Psychical Research\" which \"cast considerable doubt on the objectivity and reliability of his work as a whole.\"\n\nSkeptical investigator Joe Nickell has written that Holzer did not provide verification for some of his claims and he credulously accepted spirit photographs, anecdotal reports, and other doubtful evidence.\n\nNickell also wrote that the mediums Holzer endorsed Ethel Meyers and Sybil Leek offered \"unsubstantiated, even unverifiable claims, or information that can be gleaned from research sources or from knowledgeable persons by “cold reading” (an artful method of fishing for information).\"\n\nFellow ghost hunter Peter Underwood wrote an obituary for Holzer in \"The Guardian\", in which he disputed Holzer's claim (made in his 1979 book \"Murder in Amityville\") that the house on Ocean Avenue in Amityville was built on the site of a Shinnecock burial ground.\n\nHolzer's daughter, Alexandra Holzer, wrote a 2008 book titled \"Growing Up Haunted\", based on her life with her father and his paranormal quest. The book was optioned by Vance Entertainment to be developed as a potential feature film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10578589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10578589", "title": "Interfaith officiants", "text": "Interfaith officiants\n\nInterfaith Officiants perform private weddings, commitment ceremonies, funerals, baby namings/welcomings, memorial services, vow renewals, handfastings, adoption ceremonies, family unions, ship christenings, home blessings, and other life-cycle events. They may also perform nontraditional religious or Humanist ceremonies in a variety of settings including on a beach, in a park, by the ocean, in the mountains, on a ski slope, at a banquet hall or at an event center. Interfaith Officiants are trained in world religions and inter-spirituality, and can assist people in identifying their own spiritual beliefs through a process of spiritual self-discovery. \n\nInterfaith Officiants come from many different faith backgrounds and have different philosophies and personal theologies, yet are well-versed in a multitude of religious traditions. They share a commitment to serving individuals, couples and families in a very personal and respectful way, building ceremonies around the wishes, preferences, beliefs and practices of the clients they serve. Like hospital chaplains, Interfaith Officiants generally do not proselytize on behalf of any one faith tradition, but respect and honor them all. \n\nA number of Interfaith Seminaries and religious institutions train Interfaith Officiants, which are also sometimes called Interfaith Ministers or Interfaith Celebrants. Interfaith Officiants differ from Chaplains in that they usually work independently and serve the public at large, as opposed to Chaplains, who are employed by the military, hospitals, or other institutions.\n\nIn 2010 The Council of Interfaith Communities of the United States was created, which is an umbrella for interfaith-interspiritual ministers who are going beyond celebrant status to engage and organize their couples in a lifetime community ministry to support interfaith families. The services of the minister include all of the life celebrations found in traditional faith organizations. The CIC-USA includes most of the first interfaith seminaries in the world including: The New Seminary (New York), One Spirit Interfaith Seminary (New York), Chaplaincy Institute for Arts and Interfaith Ministry (Berkeley, CA), Chaplaincy Institute of Maine (Maine), the American Institute for Holistic Theology (Alabama), and the Interfaith Academy for Interfaith Studies (Texas and Mexico), and the All-Paths Divinity School (Los Angeles, CA). \n"}
{"id": "7003730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7003730", "title": "Johann Kremer", "text": "Johann Kremer\n\nJohann Paul Kremer (26 December 1883 – 8 January 1965) was a professor of anatomy and human genetics at Münster University who joined the Wehrmacht on May 20, 1941. He served in the SS in the Auschwitz concentration camp as a physician during World War II, from 30 August 1942 to 18 November 1942.\n\nA member of the NSDAP, he was involved in Nazi human experimentation on the prisoners of Auschwitz-Birkenau. He was sentenced to death in the Auschwitz Trial, but this sentence was later commuted to one of life imprisonment. He was released in 1958.\n\nKremer received notoriety for his diary, which recounted mundane day to day activities interspersed with entries of his witnessing murder and depravity through gassings and \"special actions\".\n\nKremer was born in Stellberg. He was a doctor of medicine as well as philosophy he also studied natural science and mathematics. He studied in Heidelberg, Strassburg as well as Berlin; he received his medical degree in 1919 and his philosophy degree in 1914. He was the \"assistant surgeon at the surgical clinic of the University, Charité, the ward of internal diseases of the Municipal Hospital Berlin-Neukölln, the surgical clinic of the University of Cologne and prosector in the Institutes of Anatomy in Bonn and Münster. He became Dozent of anatomy in 1929 and was promoted there in 1936 to be professor in commission. At the same time he was commissioned to lecture on the science of human hereditariness [now known as the field of human genetics].\" He also did some writing, he mentions two articles that he wrote in the diary he kept, the first being \"Inherited or Acquired? A Noteworthy Contribution to the Problem of Hereditariness of Traumatic Deformations\" and the second titled \"New Elements of Cell and Tissues Investigations\".\n\nThe main priority of SS doctors at concentration camps throughout Nazi-occupied Europe was not to provide basic medical services to prisoners, but rather to give the appearance of competent medical care. Following the full-scale implementation of the Final Solution, much of their time was occupied with concentration camp exterminations, sorting/selection of the newly-arrived (primarily Jewish) prisoners (e.g. for work, experimentation, or immediate extermination), direct observation of executions and gassings, experimentation, and the fabrication of causes of deaths on prisoner death certificates. The experiments conducted by SS doctors were done for three main reasons: 1) to research methods to improve the health and survivability of soldiers; 2) to lay the groundwork for post-war scientific research; and 3) to carry out the dictates of the racial policies of the Nazi Party. Some experiments were also done at the behest of pharmaceutical companies and medical institutes, for the doctors' own research interests, and to benefit the doctors' personal careers.\n\nKremer was particularly interested in the effects of starvation on the human body, especially on the liver, and because Kremer was responsible for examining the prisoners that sought admission to the camp infirmary, he was able to personally select the prisoners that he believed would make good test subjects for his experiments. He often performed autopsies in order to extract samples from the liver, spleen and pancreas. On several occasions in his diary, he mentions the extraction of organs and tissues (which he called \"living-fresh material\") from living victims, such as on October 15, 1942, when he writes, \"Living-fresh material of liver, spleen and pancreas taken from an abnormal individual.\" Kremer's diary contains descriptions of at least five more similar instances. At his hearing on July 30, 1947, Kremer stated that \"I observed the prisoners in this group [to be liquidated] carefully and whenever one of them particularly interested me because of his advanced stage of starvation, I ordered the medical orderly to reserve him and to inform me when this patient would be killed by injection.\"\n\nAll SS doctors were required to be present at what were called \"special actions\", which was when the mass gassings took place. The most common victims were children, the elderly, mothers with young children and any others considered unfit to work. During his trial, Kremer described how a gassing was conducted and what his role as doctor was. The gassings were conducted in cabins located on the outskirts of the camp; the victims were transported by railway, and after they arrived, prisoners \"were first driven to barracks where the victims undressed and then went naked to the gas chambers. Very often no incidents occurred, as the SS men kept people quiet, maintaining that they were to bathe and be deloused. After driving all of them into the gas chamber the door was closed and an SS man in a gas mask threw the contents of a Cyclon tin through an opening in the side wall.\" Kremer's role was to sit in a van along with a medical orderly ready to treat any officers that might succumb to the gas.\n\nThroughout Kremer's diary there are multiple occasions where he mentions being in attendance at various executions and beatings. At least four instances can be found where he mentions executions either by gun, phenol injection, or an unspecified method. He mentions briefly no fewer than three instances where he oversaw the punishment of prisoners. The physicians were required to examine the victim before the punishment and to remain during the administration of punishment; in practice however, physicians rarely, if ever, examined victims and did not openly object to the punishments.\n\nJohann Kremer was tried in the Auschwitz trials at the sitting of the Supreme Court National Tribune in Kraków throughout November and December 1947. Based on the contents of his diary and his own confessions, Kremer participated in fourteen gassings as well as multiple public executions and special actions, also known as gassings. During his testimony, he described the process by which he selected his victims, the process of gaining the necessary information for his research, and he states that \"after I had been given this information a medical orderly would come and kill the patient with an injection in the heart area. To my knowledge all these patients were killed with phenol injections. The patient died immediately after being given such an injection. I myself never administered fatal injections.\"\n"}
{"id": "15913774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15913774", "title": "Jun Lozada", "text": "Jun Lozada\n\nRodolfo Noel I. Lozada, Jr. is an electronics and communications engineer and former chief executive officer of the Philippine Forest Corporation who served as a technical consultant to former Philippine Socio-Economic Planning Secretary Romulo Neri on the Philippine national broadband project of 2007. He later became the chief whistleblower on irregularities in the same project in what was to be touted as the NBN-ZTE Scandal.\n\nA graduate of the University of Santo Tomas, Lozada has a 20-year experience in executive and management positions in the private sector. He assumed the post of president and CEO of PhilForest, a corporate arm of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources, in 2004. In this capacity, he directed the government's program for the propagation and commercial cultivation of the tuba-tuba or jatropha plant, a source of biodiesel.\n\nLozada hails from Ligao City in Albay. He is also a golfer and plays in the Wack Wack Golf and Country Club at least once a week.\n\nHe is also the developer of Theft Apprehension and Asset Recovery Application (TARA App), an anti-theft smartphone app that activates the kill switch activation and a loud shout alarm if thieves stole the cellphone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2772984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2772984", "title": "Junior Rotter", "text": "Junior Rotter\n\nJunior Rotter was a British comic strip, created by Trevor Metcalfe in 1980. The series were originally published in the magazine \"Whizzer and Chips\", and from 1990 on in \"Buster\" when the two magazines merged.\n\nJunior Rotter was a spoof of J.R. Ewing, the breakout character from the TV soap opera \"Dallas\". His sister, Sue Helen, is a parody of Sue Ellen, from that same series. Except for their names it had nothing else to do with this soap opera. Junior Rotter and Sue Helen were sibling rivals. Rotter was a bad boy, while Sue was a decent, charming and helpful person whom he tried to trick, always failing in the end. Their rivalry often extended into an all-out conflict. The final issue of \"Buster\" included a page showing the ultimate fates of the characters; Junior Rotter was shown as becoming the Prime Minister.\n\nA similar character, also loosely based on the character from \"Dallas\", named Jay R Hood appeared in rival publisher DC Thomson's \"Nutty\" coincidentally. This strip also featured a character named Sue Helen who acts as Jay R's most common victim.\n"}
{"id": "34592137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34592137", "title": "Katanda Territory", "text": "Katanda Territory\n\nKatanda Territory is one of five territories which, along with the city of Mbuji-Mayi, constitute the current Congolese province of Kasai-Oriental. The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is made up of 192 territories and 20 cities which are grouped in 26 provinces including Kinshasa, the capital city. Katanda Territory is sectioned into four sectors: Baluba-Lubilanji, Mutwayi, Nsangu, and Tshitolo. The territory is also endowed with three towns (Katanda, Tshala and Tshitenge). Katanda Town is the headquarters of both Katanda Territory and Baluba-Lubilanji Sector as well; this town is located on the top of the hill in the Bena Nshimba Grouping. Tshala town, in the Bakwa Ndaba Grouping, is also famous because of its power station on the Tshala River that supplies power to Mbuji-Mayi city and its neighborhoods. So, Tshitenge Town which is well known for its diamond businesses is in the Bena Nshimba Grouping.\n\n\"Katanda\" simply means \"small hangar\".\n\nIt once happened that somewhere on the hill, there was a single mother who used to sell her goods in her small hangar. With time, this small hangar became a meeting place for youth from everywhere and some travelers as well. So, when the Belgian settlers arrived to implant the Colo-Cotton (the colonial cotton industry), they asked autochthons for the name of that place and they all replied \"Katanda\", by reference to that single woman's small hangar. Katanda then became the name of the state post of settlers installed in 1924, comprising only a part of the Bena Nshimba Grouping which is located on the hill of the town of Katanda.\n\nThe territory of Katanda originated from a colonial native constituency. During the pre-colonial period, this territory was ignored. On 1962, under the Provincial Governor Joseph Ngalula Mpanda-Njila, Katanda became a borough, which was made up of the actual territory of Katanda, including Bena Kalambayi Chiefdom and Bena Nomba Grouping. At that time, this borough was partitioned into rural communes. Katanda Territory was created on 1978, by Ordinance Law n 78/18 of 18 January 1978. Further, in 1982, Katanda Territory was divided into four sectors and one town (Katanda Town).\n\nKatanda is located 60 km southwest of Mbuji-Mayi, the capital of East Kasai Province, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Katanda Territory is bounded to the north by Lusambo Territory (currently the town of the new province of Sankuru); to the northwest by Lupatapata Territory; to the south by Ngandajika Territory (Lomami); to the east by Kabinda Territory (Lomami); and to the west by both Tshilenge Territory and Mbuji Mayi city. Katanda lies approximately between 23 °42' 5\" and 24 ° East longitudes, then 6° 17' 5\" and 6 ° 25'3\" South latitude.\n\n\"Katanda territory is subdivided into four sectors. The four sectors of the territory are subdivided into groupings as follows:\"\n\n\n\n\"Source: Mr. Modeste Tshimbowa Ntalaja, the current chief of Nsangu sector. (cell: 0854735153)\"\n\n\"Köppen-Geiger climate classification system\" classifies the climate of Katanda as tropical wet and dry (Aw). Two natural seasons alternate with the rainy season running from mid-August to mid-May, while the dry one runs from mid-May to mid-August. The rainfall is 1200 to 1400 mm. The temperature varies between 22 °C and 27 °C depending on the season, but sometimes it reaches 34 °C.\n\nThe vegetation is dominated by imperata and panicum (the wooded savannah or clear forest). Its relief is rugged of valleys and hills.\n\nThe soil of Katanda Territory is sandy and clayey. Its relief is rugged of the valleys and hills. The vegetation is dominated by imperata and panicum (the wooded savannah or clear forest). Its relief is rugged of valleys and hills.\n\nThe territory is crossed by several rivers including lakes such Malengu, Lubombo, Nyinda, Kapongo, Kasampi and Lukelenge. But, the main and most important remains the river Lubilanji lulua Tshilemba, in short Lubilanji. This river crosses the territory to the west (through the sectors of Nsangu and Tshitolo) to the south (through the sector of Baluba-Lubilanji). Lubilanji River receives water from several streams such as Bufua, Kalenganyi, Kasulu, Mulunguyi River in the south in the sector of Baluba-Lubilanji; as well Kalenga, Mulamba and Mutuayi River in the east in the sector of Mutuayi.\n\nFormerly hidden in the depths of Lubilanji River, the crocodiles and hippopotamuses of Katandese rivers reappear, frequenting the banks, and terrorizing innocent people on their paths. Several people have been killed by ambuscades. Survivors keep testifying their tragedies and warning people to prevent any potential assault. Women refrain approaching the shores. The Province promised to assist the Territory by leading these carnivores back to their home rivers. Meanwhile, swimming is still prohibited and fishermen are converted to farmers.\n\nParticularities and richness of the territory\n\nKatanda is also one of those Congolese territories that holds a large part of the Congolese reserve of diamonds; the territory is mentioned among the largest producers of peanuts, palm oil, corn and cassava in the country.\n\nKatanda is a mining land inhabited by a traditionally mining population. So, despite the rarity of precious and semi-precious stones, the fall of raw materials on the international market, as well as other collateral repercussions of the financial crisis, diamond mining by individual contractors is still prevalent in the Katanda, whereas the economy is now oriented to subsistence activities such agriculture with local farmers who are using simple tools. The massive conversion of this mining people into farmers has significantly raised the provincial rank in the National agricultural production indicators. They could have done better but the infrastructure makes recurrent problems. The territorial activities is based on:\n\n· Agriculture (45%)\n\n· Retail trade (30%)\n\n· Artisanal mining (diamond) (15%)\n\n· Livestock (7%)\n\n· Fishing (3%)\n\nThe abundant harvest from these familial activities raises the economy of Katanda on the top list of the list of several national productions; such as corn & cassava. Some of these productions are consumed, some are stored for replanting (bartering is prohibited), and some other are sold.\n\nEach household has at least one field where it practices agriculture. Subsistence farming is the type of agriculture intensively practiced in Katanda. This type is practiced to satisfying family or local needs alone, with a little left over for transport elsewhere. The territorial agricultural production started decreasing just when women and elderlies avoided maintaining and watering as scheduled their cornfields, fields of cassava, fields of wheat fearing hippopotamus and crocodiles' assaults offshore.\n\nMostly men hunt while women either take care of children or their cattle.\n\nIn 1988 Allison Brooks and John Yellin discovered a bone harpoon point in Katanda, Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\n\"Humans in Central Africa used some of the earliest barbed points, like this harpoon point, to spear huge prehistoric catfish weighing as much as 68 kg (150 lb)–enough to feed 80 people for two days. Later, humans used harpoons to hunt large, fast marine mammals\" (<nowiki>http://humanorigins.si.edu/evidence/behavior/katanda-bone-harpoon-point</nowiki>, accessed 0510-2010)\n\nFrench is the official language, but the main spoken is Tshiluba\n\nBeing the unique official language of the country, French tends to take precedence over the four national languages as well as all dialects. However, only those who went to school are fluent in French, while the illiterates speak their specific broken French. Useful in professional fields, territorial branches, public administration, and somewhat in hospitals and police, French remains the principal working tool for students, teachers, authorities and so on in Katanda Territory.\n\nTshiluba remains the most spoken language throughout the territory of Katanda (spoken at 80%) because it is first and foremost the mother language in Katanda for natives, before also becoming one of the national languages. Since ancestries, autochthones spoke only Tshiluba Language. The influence of colonization and the effects of globalization have competitively lowered nowadays the predominance of Tshiluba Language to 80% speakers in various territorial fields.\n\nThe settlers brought French during the colonial period which is still useful for schooling. Catholic Church backed them up by introducing the alphabetization for adults and seniors in French.\n\nIn the '70s, Unitary system let Katanda people to get married with partners from different provinces; this allowed some household to speak other dialects according to their partner's understanding.\n\nIn the '80s, the wave of deportation from Katanga brought Swahili in all five territories of the East Kasai. Those deported once back home, they spread Swahili throughout the territory. So, with an estimated rate of 8% of Swahili-speakers, Swahili Language became the second national language most spoken at Katanda.\n\nIn the '90s, Democracy reinforced English in school which is still useful for teachers and students in school and various other circumstances. Even dominated by Tshiluba and somewhat Swahili, French remains the unique official language in Katanda and the entire country as well.\n\nThe Lingala which is so far spoken at 2% is positioned as the third national language of the territory. Both military and police are the first to introduce Lingala in this territory during various conflicts among groupings. After restoring the public order, military may further leave, whereas police will stay. Police were deployed throughout the entire territory for national purpose. They all speak only in Lingala with anyone on their way. Katanda people learned Lingala involuntarily just for to communicate with them. Secondly, the federal development agents working synergistically with the local authorities of public administration. They mostly came from the Capital Kinshasa where they speak fluently French & Lingala. Thirdly both, Tetela and Songe languages are audible on the Route National 2 as well as in some isolated conversations at the market. The constituency of Katanda is so far multilingual.\n\nSax and Zadis (Kazadi), are the only modern movie theaters in the territory. They generally show popular recent Hollywood productions as well as NC-17 films. However, they also show movies about Congolese and African recent history like \"Mister Bob,\" \",\" \",\" and \"Tears of the Sun.\" Before films, they both showed Congolese and international music videos, and US wrestling. Zadis primarily addresses the young adults of Lubumbashi. Children are exposed to huge NC-17 posters, but seldom get in.\n\nZadis in particular also screens great football matches, and local singers' concerts and Christian meetings are regularly held here. All over the city, especially in crowded neighborhoods, are spread small rooms in which children are exposed to violent movies from morning to night.\n\nNigeria's Nollywood films are also, as in many other parts of the DRC and Africa, popular among the residents. These films are often sold on VCD and DVD platforms.\n\nFolklore music dominates in the territory. The popular music from Kinshasa can also be heard around.\n\nOkapi Radio's Katanda presenters participate each Saturday evening in \"métissage,\" the cultural program of the radio. The whole country is informed of the cultural activities in the city.\n\nRTNC (Congolese National Radio and Television) has a provincial station located in Lubumbashi district at Mbuji-Mayi.\n\nRadio Kasongo Munganga, the first independent radio station in the territory, started broadcasting in 2013; since then several radio stations were constructed.\n\nKatanda is home to football clubs such as TP Kasongo whose Chairman is the actual National Deputy of Katanda Territory, Professor Kasongo Munganga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56237852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56237852", "title": "Kjersti Fløttum", "text": "Kjersti Fløttum\n\nKjersti Fløttum (born 12 July 1953) is a Norwegian linguist.\n\nAfter a tenure at Stavanger University College she was hired at the University of Bergen in 1995 where she is a professor of French language. She has been a vice rector of international relations and from 2007 to 2011 led the Bergen Summer Research School.\n\nFløttum is also vice-consul for France in Bergen, and active in the Rafto Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "5318398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5318398", "title": "List of people associated with rail transport", "text": "List of people associated with rail transport\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4760343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760343", "title": "Llŷr", "text": "Llŷr\n\nLlŷr ( (); \"Lleddiaith\" meaning \"half-speech\" or \"half-language\") is a figure in Welsh mythology, probably originally a deity, probably derived from Irish Ler (\"the Sea\"), father of \"Manannán mac Lir\". \nOther than his progeny and odd tidbits, his identity remains obscure.\n\nLlŷr appears as the father of Brân, Brânwen and Manawydan by Penarddun in the \"Branwen, Daughter of Llyr\", the Second Branch of the \"Mabinogi\".\n\nThe Welsh Triads states that Llŷr was imprisoned by Euroswydd, and presumbably, Penarddun consequently married Euroswydd, giving birth by Euroswydd to her two younger sons, Nisien and Efnisien, as stated in the Second Branch.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare's play \"King Lear\" is based on material taken secondhand (through Holinshed) from Geoffrey of Monmouth's mythical king King Leir, who has often been connected, but is likely unrelated, to Llŷr.\n\n<br>\n<br>\n(*) Unbordered names are figures not in Llŷr's line of descent, though perhaps members of the extended family.<br> \n(*) This stemma is subject to further elaboration. If the Beli above is to be equated with Beli Mawr then Caswallawn stands as Penarddun's sibling. But Bromwich observes that Penarddun should be emended to being the sister of Beli, which would bring consistency with statement elsewhere that Caswallawn and Bran are cousins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27913429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27913429", "title": "Ma Ching-chiang", "text": "Ma Ching-chiang\n\nMa Ching-chiang (Xiao'erjing: ) was a Chinese Muslim general of the Republic of China Army, who served in the 1970s. He served as Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Combined Service Forces and an advisor of President Chiang Kai-shek.\n\n"}
{"id": "9681844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9681844", "title": "Marie of the Incarnation (Carmelite)", "text": "Marie of the Incarnation (Carmelite)\n\nMarie of the Incarnation, O.C.D., also as Madame Acarie (1 February 1566 – 18 April 1618), was the foundress of the nuns of the Discalced Carmelite Order in France, who later became a lay sister of the Order. She has been called the \"mother of Carmel in France\".\n\n\"Le belle Acarie\" (\"the beautiful Acarie\"), as she was known in Paris, was born Barbara Avrillot in Paris. Her family belonged to the higher bourgeois society in Paris. Her father, Nicholas Avrillot, was Accountant General in the Chamber of Paris, and chancellor of Marguerite of Navarre, first wife of Henry IV of France; while her mother, Marie Lhuillier was a descendant of Etienne Marcel, the famous prévôt des marchands (chief municipal magistrate). She was placed with the Poor Clares of the Abbey of Longchamp, where she had a maternal aunt, for her education, and acquired there a vocation for the cloister. In 1584, through obedience she married Pierre Acarie, viscount of Villemor, a wealthy young man of high standing, who was a fervent Catholic, to whom she bore seven children. Pierre Acarie disapproved of Barbe's reading romance novels and with clerical advice removed the books and substituted books of a more pious and spiritual bent.\n\nPierre Acarie was one of the staunchest members of the Catholic League, which, after the death of Henry III of France, opposed the succession of the Huguenot prince, Henry of Navarre, to the French throne. He was one of the sixteen who organized the resistance in Paris and partly responsible for the subsequent famine which resulted from the siege of Paris (1590). Mary was so wise in her almsgiving that during a famine the wealthy persons who desired to help the poor caused their alms to pass through her hands, and she was widely respected. After the dissolution of the League, brought about by the abjuration of Henry IV, Acarie was exiled from Paris and his wife had to remain behind to contend with creditors and businessmen for her children's fortune, which had been compromised by her husband's want of foresight and prudence. She defended her husband in court, drafting memoirs, writing letters and furnishing proofs of his innocence. He was acquitted and enabled to return to the city after three years. In addition she was afflicted with physical sufferings, the consequences of a fall from her horse, and a very severe course of treatment left her an invalid for the rest of her life.\n\nAt the beginning of the 17th century, Acarie was widely known for her virtue, her supernatural gifts, and especially her charity towards the poor and the sick in the hospitals. To her residence came all the distinguished and devout people of the day in Paris, among them Madame de Meignelay, née de Gondi, a model of Christian widows, Madame Jourdain and Madame de Bréauté, all future Carmelites, the Chancellor de Merillac, Père Coton, the Jesuit, as well as St. Vincent de Paul and St. Francis de Sales, who for six months was Acarie's spiritual director.\n\nShe is reputed to have had the gift of healing, the gift of prophecy, of predicting certain events in the future, of reading hearts and of discerning spirits. At the age of twenty-seven, she received the stigmata, the grace of physical conformity to the Suffering Christ. She is the first Frenchwoman the authenticity of whose stigmata (although invisible) have been attested by eminent persons.\n\nIn 1601 she was introduced to the Life of St Teresa of Avila and was greatly moved by her life.\nA few days later St. Teresa, appeared to her and informed her that God wished to make use of her to found Carmelite convents in France. The apparitions continuing, Acarie took counsel and began the work. A meeting in which Pierre de Bérulle, future founder of the Oratory of Jesus, Francis de Sales, the Abbé de Brétigny, and the Marillac's took part, decided on the foundation of the \"Reformed Carmel in France\", 27 July 1602. St Frances the Sales was the one who wrote to the pope to obtain authorization and Pope Clement VIII granted the Bull of institution on 23 November 1603. The following year some Spanish Carmelites were received into the Carmel of Rue St. Jacques, which became celebrated. Mme de Longueville, Anne de Gonzague, Mlle de la Vallieres, withdrew to it; there also Bossuet and Fénelon were to preach. The Carmel spread rapidly and profoundly influenced French society of the day. Barbara Acarie also cooperated in the new foundations of Pontoise (1605), Dijon (1605) and Amiens (1606). In 1618, the year of Mme Acarie's death, it numbered fourteen houses.\n\nMme Acarie also shared in two foundations of the day, that of the Oratory and that of the Ursulines. On 11 November 1611 she, with St. Vincent de Paul, assisted at the Mass of the installation of the Oratory of France. Among the many postulants whom Mme Acarie received for the Carmel, there were some who had no vocation, and she conceived the idea of getting them to undertake the education of young girls, and broached her plan to her holy cousin, Mme. de Sainte-Beuve. To establish the new Order, they brought Ursulines to Paris and adopted their rule and name.\n\nWhen her husband died in 1613, his widow settled her affairs and begged leave to enter the Carmel, asking as a favour to be received as a lay sister in the poorest community. In 1614 she withdrew to the monastery of Amiens, taking the name of Marie of the Incarnation. Her three daughters had preceded her into the cloister, and one of them, Margaret of the Blessed Sacrament, was sub-prioress at Amiens. She made her solemn profession on April 8, 1615, in the course of a prolonged sickness. In 1616, for reasons of health, she was sent to the Carmelite convent at Pontoise, where she died at the age of fifty-two.\n\nShe was beatified by Pope Pius VI in 1791; her mortal remains are in the chapel of the Carmelites of Pontoise. Her feast is celebrated on 18 April.\n\nShe is primarily noted for the introduction of the reform of St. Teresa of Jesus into France, so much so that she merits the title of \"mother and foundress of the (Discalced) Carmel in France\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33070513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33070513", "title": "Martín Pou", "text": "Martín Pou\n\nMartín Pou y Roseló was a lawyer from Mallorca who was leader of the Philippine Falange.\n"}
{"id": "39818271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39818271", "title": "Misha Kokaia", "text": "Misha Kokaia\n\nMisha Kokaia (Georgian: მიშა კოკაია) (born 1954) is a Georgian politician and Doctor of Mathematics who was last seen on 27 September 1993.\n\nThe last time Kokaia was seen was 27 September 1993, when the city of Sukhumi fell to the Russian-supported separatist forces. Some say that he was killed in Sukhumi along with Zhiuli Shartava, Guram Gabiskiria and others by Abkhaz separatist rebels during the ethnic cleaning of Georgians in Abkhazia on the same date.\n\n"}
{"id": "47674289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47674289", "title": "Nicky Nichols", "text": "Nicky Nichols\n\nNicole Nichols is a fictional character played by Natasha Lyonne on the Netflix series \"Orange Is the New Black\". She is a recurring character in season one and a main character from season two onwards. Lyonne received an Emmy nomination in 2014 for the role.\n\nNatasha Lyonne had intended to audition for the part of Lorna Morello but, according to Lyonne, \"they wouldn’t let me [audition for Morello], because they already liked me for Nicky.\" Yael Stone, who had auditioned for the role of Nichols, was cast as Morello.\n\nLyonne feels that she can relate closely to Nichols's storyline as she has had experience of drug addiction. She says, \"believe me, there's no shortage of things for me to draw on when it comes to Nicky's backstory\". The scar that is visible on Nichols's chest during the series is a real scar from Lyonne's heart surgery in 2012. \"Orange Is the New Black\" is Lyonne's first time as a series regular.\n\nNichols is first seen in the premier episode. Early on, she becomes friends with the series' protagonist Piper Chapman (played by Taylor Schilling). Nichols has a sexual relationship with Lorna Morello which ends in the fifth episode because Morello says that she wants to remain loyal to her fiancé and complains that Nichols is \"making her feel like a cave\". Galina \"Red\" Reznikov (played by Kate Mulgrew) is a close friend and 'mother figure' to Nichols, however, the two have a disagreement when Red cuts off fellow inmate Tricia Miller (played by Madeline Brewer) and allows her to be sent to solitary confinement. Nichols retaliates against Red by reporting to a correctional officer exactly how Red manages to smuggle contraband into the prison. In the final episode of the season, Nichols is seen to be seducing Alex Vause (played by Laura Prepon), who is a love interest of Chapman.\n\nNichols engages in a competition with Carrie \"Big Boo\" Black (played by Lea DeLaria) to see who can have sex with the most women in the prison. Nichols spends a long time trying to seduce one of the correctional officers. She is not successful. Eventually, they both call it a draw at 36 points and engage in a 'cookie-eating contest' instead. The other major storyline for Nichols in this season involves heroin that she accepts from another inmate.\n\nNichols and Big Boo, attempt to sell their stash of heroin and they cooperate with correctional officer Joel Luschek, who finds a buyer. Nichols then says that it has been stolen but, in reality, she has hidden it for her own use. Other inmates Leanne Taylor (played by Emma Myles) and Angie Rice (played by Julie Lake) find the heroin and start taking it. Luschek discovers this and confiscates the drug. When assistant warden Joe Caputo (played by Nick Sandow) discovers the heroin, Luschek blames Nichols and Nichols is sent to a maximum security prison. This is Nichols's last appearance in the third season.\n\nIn the midst of season four, Nichols can be seen in an episode as a maximum security inmate, along with Sophia Burset and Stella Carlin. Luschek repents of his actions against Nichols, and asks new inmate Judy King to use her connections to get Nichols out of maximum security. She returns to minimum security where she is welcomed with a big party. Her drug problem persists, however.\n\nDuring a prison riot, Nichols decides to take over the pharmacy with Lorna Morello. Later, while Soso is depressed and asking Nichols for drugs, Nichols confess that she has hopelessly fallen in love with \"an incredible, insane, beautiful woman\" who would never love her back. Morello overhears everything but does not comment. In a later episode, Nichols and Morello restart their sexual relationship, but Morello ends it a few hours after, saying that during their intercourse she realized she was pregnant. Nichols does not believe her and is heartbroken. Vause finds her crying in the shower. While Red is becoming paranoid because of the correctional officer (CO) Piscatella, Nichols decides to take care of her but is eventually abducted by the CO. She is kept in a room tied up with the rest of her prison \"family\". After they are able to escape, Nichols goes back to the pharmacy to see Morello and realizes that she is actually pregnant. She then calls Morello's husband to convince him to stay with her because \"some people would give anything to be loved like that\". While the police begins to raid the prison, she asks Morello to surrender and tell them that she is pregnant. Nichols then returns to Frieda's bunker and they all wait for the police to enter.\n\nSarah Karlan of \"BuzzFeed\" praised the character's \"impossibly quick wit\" and \"perfectly deadpan delivery\". Rebekah Allen of \"SheWired\" said Lyonne is \"wonderful\" in the role, and called Nichols one of the best characters on the series. MTV's Crystal Bell called Nichols a \"fan-favorite\" and \"our beloved smart mouth\" and expressed disappointment at the character's departure in the third season.\n\nLyonne received an Emmy nomination for her role as Nichols. She lost out to fellow \"Orange Is the New Black\" actress Uzo Aduba.\n\n"}
{"id": "10991302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10991302", "title": "Rached Ghannouchi", "text": "Rached Ghannouchi\n\nRached Ghannouchi ( '; born 7 June 1941), also spelled Rachid al-Ghannouchi or Rached el-Ghannouchi, is a Tunisian politician and thinker, co-founder of the Ennahdha Party and serving as its \"intellectual leader\". He was born Rashad Khriji ().\n\nGhannouchi was named one of \"Time\"'s 100 Most Influential People in the World in 2012 and \"Foreign Policy\"'s Top 100 Global Thinkers and was awarded the Chatham House Prize in 2012 (alongside Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki) by Prince Andrew, Duke of York, for \"the successful compromises each achieved during Tunisia's democratic transition\". In 2016 he received the Jamnalal Bajaj Award for \"promoting Gandhian values outside India\".\n\nGhannouchi was born outside El Hamma, in the governorate of Gabès in southern Tunisia. His village had no electricity or paved roads. His father was a poor farmer with children including Rached. His family worked in the fields every day, and had meat to eat only a few times a year. After the ground season had ended, the family wove baskets from palm leaves to supplement its income. Rached was able to attend a local branch of the traditional Arabic-language Zaytouna school thanks to financial help from an older brother.\n\nHe received his certificate of attainment degree, equivalent to the Baccalauréat, in 1962 from the University of Ez-Zitouna (Zaytouna). He entered the school of agriculture at Cairo University in 1964 but, following the expulsion of Tunisians from Egypt, he left for Syria. He studied philosophy at the University of Damascus, graduating in 1968. Ghannouchi also spent some time in his 20s traveling and working in Europe as a grape picker and dish washer.\n\nIn April 1981 Ghannouchi founded the Islamic Tendency Movement ( \"\"). The Movement described itself as specifically rooted in non-violent Islamism, and called for a \"reconstruction of economic life on a more equitable basis, the end of single-party politics and the acceptance of political pluralism and democracy.\" By the end of July, Ghannouchi and his followers were arrested, sentenced to eleven years in prison in Bizerte, and were tortured. Both the religious and secular community, including numerous secular political organizations, rallied in his support.\nWhile in prison he translated a number of works and wrote on topics such as democracy, women's rights, and Palestine. He also wrote his most noted work, \"Al‐Hurriyat al‐'Ammah\" (Public Liberties).\n\nHe was released in 1984, but returned to prison in 1987 with a life sentence, then was again released in 1988. He moved to the United Kingdom as a political exile, where he lived for 22 years.\n\nHe attended The Islamic Committee for Palestine conference in Chicago in 1989. Following the 1990 invasion of Kuwait, Al-Ghannushi denounced King Fahd of Saudi Arabia for the \"colossal crime\" of inviting the U.S. to deploy forces. He also called for a Muslim boycott of American goods, planes and ships.\nHe has also been criticized for calling for jihad against Israel.\nGhannouchi continued to criticise Tunisian politics and the regime of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.\n\nFollowing popular unrest in which Ben Ali was ousted, Ghannouchi returned to Tunisia on 30 January 2011, after spending twenty two years exiled in London, with thousands of people welcoming him.\n\nHis party won 37.04% of the vote (more than the next four biggest vote-getting parties combined) in the 2011 Tunisian Constituent Assembly election.\nGhannouchi did not take a government position. Ennahdha's secretary-general Hamadi Jebali became Prime Minister.\n\nEnnahda formed a government which led Tunisia through the challenging and tumultuous aftermath of the Jasmine revolution. The government during this period was characterized by greater transparency, lack of corruption, and consensus-building. In March 2012, Ennahda declared it would not support making sharia the main source of legislation in the new constitution, maintaining the secular nature of the state. Ennahda's stance on the issue was criticized by hardline Islamists, who wanted strict sharia, but was welcomed by secular parties. The government was criticized for mediocre economic performance, not stimulating the tourism industry, and poor relations with Tunisia's biggest trading partner France. In particular it was criticized for tolerating efforts at aggressive Islamisation by radical Islamists who were demanding Sharia law and denouncing gender inequality and restrictions on polygamy, some of whom were responsible for the September 2012 ransacking and burning of the American embassy and school following the online publication of the trailer for a controversial anti-Islamic film, and the assassination of two leftist politicians Chokri Belaid (in February 2013) and Mohamed Brahmi (in July 2013). During this 2013–14 Tunisian political crisis enraged secularists demanded the government step down or even a Sisi-style coup, while Ennahda militants defiantly opposed early elections, even booing Ghannouchi's calls for sacrifice for national unity.\n\nNonetheless Ghanouchi worked with secularist leader Beji Caid Essebsi to forge a compromise and on October 5 signed a \"road map\" whereby Ennahda would step down for a caretaker government after the new constitution was agreed upon and until new elections were held. Both leaders were heavily criticized by their party rank and file and Ghannouchi received agreement from the Ennahda shura council only by threatening to resign.\n\nIn January 2014, after the new Tunisian Constitution was approved, Ennahdha peacefully quit government and handed power to a technocratic government led by Mehdi Jomaa. Ennahda placed second in the October 2014 parliamentary election with 27.79% of the popular vote and formed a coalition government with the larger secularist party Nidaa Tounes despite rank-and-file opposition. Ennahda did not put forth a presidential candidate for the November 2014 election. Ghanouchi \"hinted broadly\" that he personally supported Beji Caid Essebsi (who won with over 55% of the vote).\n\nGhannouchi argued for these accommodating measures against more purist party members on the grounds that the country was still too fragile, and the economy too much in need of reform, for Ennahda to be in opposition. Ghannouchi also gave his support to a crackdown on jihadi indoctrination at radical mosques (over 60 civilians, mostly tourists, were killed in 2015 by jihadis, devastating Tunisia's tourist industry). Despite his Islamist background, he had always been \"reviled\" by jihadis, according to Robert Worth, and now appeared near \"the top\" of the jihadi \"wanted list\".\n\nOn 17 May 2013, the BBC published an apology on their website for previously publishing inaccurate statements about Ghannouchi six months earlier on 21 November 2012. The article had accused Ghannouchi of threatening to order troops on to the streets if the Ennahdha Party did not get the results he expected in the elections in 2011, and suggested he condoned the violent Salafist attack on the United States embassy and the burning of the American School in Tunis in September 2012. Acknowledging that none of these accusations and suggestions were in fact true, the retraction concluded: \"The BBC apologises to Mr Ghannouchi for these mistakes and for the distress they caused him.\"\n\nOn 9 October 2012, The Independent published an apology on their website for suggesting, in a previous article, that the party Ghannouchi leads, Ennahdha (An Nahda) has been offered foreign funds. The apology stated: \"we wish to make it clear that Mr Ghannouchi and his party have not accepted any donation from a foreign state in breach of Tunisian party funding laws. We apologise to Mr Ghannouchi.\"\n\nOn 22 October 2011, The Economist published an apology on their website for previously publishing an article in which they attributed false statements to Ghannouchi. The article claimed that Ghannouchi \"opposes the country's liberal code of individual rights, the Code of Personal Status, and its prohibition of polygamy\". The article, also, claimed that Ghannouchi \"has threatened to hang a prominent Tunisian feminist, Raja bin Salama, in Basij Square in Tunis, because she has called for the country's new laws to be based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights\". The apology stated that \"we accept that neither of these statements is true: Mr Ghannouchi has expressly said that he accepts the Code of Personal Status; and he never threatened to hang Ms bin Salama. We apologise to him unreservedly.\"\n\nGhannouchi's willingness to compromise with secularists in Tunisia and his country's unique success in maintaining a democratic system following the Arab Spring has been credited by at least one observer (Robert Worth) to his background. Unlike many Islamists, Ghannouchi \"lived abroad for decades, reading widely in three languages\", including Western thinkers Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud and Jean-Paul Sartre. He admired the courage of leftists who protested in the streets against the dictatorship, were arrested and tortured in prison, and became willing to work with them. Watching the initial victory of the Algerian Islamists—while exiled in London—collapse into the slaughter, mayhem and defeat of the civil war, left a deep impact. According to Azzam S. Tamimi, he was influenced by Malik Bennabi and his treatise \"Islam and Democracy\", which laid \"the foundations\" for Ghannouchi's \"masterpiece\" \"Al‐Hurriyat al‐'Ammah\" (\"Public Liberties\").\n\nIn 2002, an unsympathetic Western source (Martin Kramer) described him as differing \"from other Islamists\" in his insistence \"that Islam accepts multi-party democracy.\"\n\nIn 2015, he told French journalist Olivier Ravanello that homosexuality should not be criminalized, though he opposed gay marriage. He has been interviewed by Michael Moore in \"Where to Invade Next\" and stated that homosexuality is a \"private affair.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168601", "title": "Rodney King", "text": "Rodney King\n\nRodney Glen King (April 2, 1965 – June 17, 2012) was an American taxi driver and victim of police brutality by the Los Angeles Police Department. On March 3, 1991, King was violently beaten by LAPD officers during his arrest for fleeing and evading on California State Route 210. A civilian, George Holliday, filmed the incident from his nearby balcony and sent the footage to local news station KTLA. The footage clearly showed King being beaten repeatedly, and the incident was covered by news media around the world.\n\nThe four officers were tried on charges of use of excessive force; three were acquitted, the jury failed to reach a verdict on one charge for the fourth. Within hours of the acquittals, the 1992 Los Angeles Riots started, sparked by outrage among African Americans over the verdicts and longstanding social issues. The rioting lasted six days, during which 63 people were killed and 2,373 were injured; it ended only after the California Army National Guard, the United States Army, and the United States Marine Corps provided reinforcements to re-establish control.\n\nThe federal government prosecuted a separate civil rights case, obtaining grand jury indictments for violations by the four officers of King's civil rights. Their trial in a federal district court ended on April 16, 1993, with two of the officers being found guilty and sentenced to prison. The other two were acquitted of the charges. The city of Los Angeles awarded King $3.8 million in damages, in a separate suit. He struggled to start a business, but was not successful. He was found dead in his swimming pool two months after publishing his memoir.\n\nKing was born in Sacramento, California in 1965, the son of Ronald and Odessa King. He and his four siblings grew up in Altadena, California. King attended John Muir High School and often talked about being inspired by his social science teacher, Robert E. Jones. King's father died in 1984 at the age of 42; he had been a violent alcoholic.\n\nOn November 3, 1989, King robbed a store in Monterey Park, California. He threatened the Korean store owner with an iron bar, and hit him with a wooden pole. King stole two hundred dollars in cash during the robbery. He was caught, convicted, and sentenced to two years imprisonment. He was released on December 27, 1990, after serving one year in prison.\n\nWhile still a teenager, King fathered a daughter with his girlfriend Carmen Simpson. He later married Danetta Lyles (cousin to rapper Mack 10) and fathered a daughter. King and Lyles were eventually divorced. He later married and fathered a daughter with Crystal Waters. This marriage also ended in divorce.\n\nEarly in the morning of March 3, 1991, King, with his friends Bryant Allen and Freddie Helms, were driving a 1987 Hyundai Excel/Mitsubishi Precis west on the Foothill Freeway (Interstate 210) in the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles. The three had spent the night watching basketball and drinking at a friend's house in Los Angeles. At 12:30 a.m., officers Tim and Melanie Singer, husband and wife members of the California Highway Patrol, noticed King's car speeding on the freeway. They pursued King, and the pursuit reached high speeds, while King refused to pull over. King later admitted he tried to outrun the police because a charge of driving under the influence would violate his parole for his previous robbery conviction.\n\nKing left the freeway near the Hansen Dam Recreation Center and the pursuit continued through residential streets at speeds ranging from . By this point, several police cars and a police helicopter had joined in the pursuit. After approximately , officers cornered King in his car near the corner of Foothill Boulevard and Osborne Street (). The first five Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) officers to arrive were Stacey Koon, Laurence Powell, Timothy Wind, Theodore Briseno, and Rolando Solano.\n\nOfficer Tim Singer ordered King and his two passengers to exit the vehicle and to lie face down on the ground. Allen claims he was manhandled, kicked, stomped, taunted, and threatened. Helms was hit in the head while lying on the ground; he was treated for a laceration on the top of his head. His bloody baseball cap was turned over to police. King remained in the car. When he emerged, he was reported to have been gagged, to have patted the ground, and waved to the police helicopter overhead. King grabbed his buttocks, which Officer Melanie Singer took to mean King was reaching for a weapon, though he was later found to be unarmed. She drew her pistol and pointed it at King, ordering him to lie on the ground. Singer approached, gun drawn, preparing to arrest him. At this point, Koon, the ranking officer at the scene, told Singer that the LAPD was taking command and ordered all officers to holster their weapons.\n\nLAPD officers are taught to approach a suspect without his/her gun drawn, as there is a risk that any suspect may gain control of it if an officer gets too close. Koon ordered the four other LAPD officers at the scene—Briseno, Powell, Solano, and Wind—to subdue and handcuff King using a technique called a \"swarm.\" This involves multiple officers grabbing a suspect with empty hands, in order to quickly overcome potential resistance. As four officers attempted to restrain King, King resisted by standing to remove Officers Powell and Briseno from his back. The officers later testified that they believed King was under the influence of phencyclidine (PCP), although King's toxicology tested negative for the drug.\n\n King was twice tasered by Koon. This marks the approximate start of the period that George Holliday videotaped. In the tape, King is seen on the ground. He rises and rushes toward Powell—as argued in court, either to attack Powell or to flee—and King and Powell collided in the rush. Taser wire can be seen on King's body. Officer Powell strikes King with his baton, and King is knocked to the ground. Powell strikes King several more times with his baton. Briseno moves in, attempting to stop Powell from striking again, and Powell stands back. Koon reportedly said, \"That's enough.\" King rises again, to his knees; Powell and Wind are seen hitting King with their batons.\n\nKoon acknowledged ordering the continued use of batons, directing Powell and Wind to strike King with \"power strokes.\" According to Koon, Powell and Wind used \"bursts of power strokes, then backed off.\" The officers beat King, who was already subdued. In the videotape, King continues to try to stand again. Koon orders the officers to \"hit his joints, hit the wrists, hit his elbows, hit his knees, hit his ankles.\" Officers Wind, Briseno, and Powell attempted numerous baton strikes on King, resulting in some misses but with 33 blows hitting King, plus six kicks. The officers again \"swarm\" King, but this time a total of eight officers are involved in the swarm. King is placed in handcuffs and cordcuffs, restraining his arms and legs. King is dragged on his abdomen to the side of the road to await the arrival of emergency medical rescue.\n\nHolliday shot a videotape of the incident on his camcorder from his apartment near the intersection of Foothill Boulevard and Osborne Street in Lake View Terrace. Two days later, Holliday called LAPD headquarters at Parker Center to let the police department know that he had a videotape of the incident, but he could not find anyone who was interested in seeing the video. He went to KTLA television with his videotape. The station cut ten seconds of the video, before the image was in focus, that showed an extremely blurry shot of King charging at the officers. Later members of the jury said that this cut footage was essential to their decision to acquit the officers. The footage as a whole became an instant media sensation. Portions were aired numerous times, and it \"turned what would otherwise have been a violent, but soon forgotten, encounter between the Los Angeles police and an uncooperative suspect into one of the most widely watched and discussed incidents of its kind.\"\n\nThe Holliday video of the Rodney King arrest is a fairly early example of modern surveillance, wherein civilians, with the aid of increasingly sophisticated and affordable video equipment, record significant events. Several \"copwatch\" organizations subsequently were started throughout the United States to safeguard against police abuse, including an umbrella group, October 22 Coalition to Stop Police Brutality.\n\nKing was taken to Pacifica Hospital after his arrest, where he was found to have suffered a fractured facial bone, a broken right ankle, and multiple bruises and lacerations. In a negligence claim filed with the city, King alleged he had suffered \"11 skull fractures, permanent brain damage, broken [bones and teeth], kidney failure [and] emotional and physical trauma\". Blood and urine samples taken from King five hours after his arrest showed that he would have been intoxicated under California law at the time of his arrest. Pacifica Hospital nurses reported that the officers who accompanied King (including Wind) openly joked and bragged about the number of times they had hit King. Officers obtained King's identification from his clothes pockets at that time. King later sued the city for damages and a jury awarded him $3.8 million, as well as $1.7 million in attorney's fees. The city did not pursue charges against King for driving while intoxicated and evading arrest. District Attorney Ira Reiner believed there was insufficient evidence for prosecution. His successor Gil Garcetti thought that by December 1992, too much time had passed to charge King with evading arrest; he also noted that the statute of limitations on drunk driving had passed.\n\nThe Los Angeles County District Attorney subsequently charged four police officers, including one sergeant, with assault and use of excessive force. Due to the extensive media coverage of the arrest, the trial received a change of venue from Los Angeles County to Simi Valley in neighboring Ventura County. The jury was composed of nine whites, one bi-racial male, one Latino, and one Asian American. The prosecutor, Terry White, was black.\n\nOn April 29, 1992, the seventh day of jury deliberations, the jury acquitted all four officers of assault and acquitted three of the four of using excessive force. The jury could not agree on a verdict for the fourth officer charged with using excessive force. The verdicts were based in part on the first three seconds of a blurry, 13-second segment of the videotape that, according to journalist Lou Cannon, had not been aired by television news stations in their broadcasts.\n\nThe first two seconds of videotape, contrary to the claims made by the accused officers, show King attempting to flee past Laurence Powell. During the next one minute and 19 seconds, King is beaten continuously by the officers. The officers testified that they tried to physically restrain King prior to the starting point of the videotape, but King was able to physically throw them off.\n\nAfterward, the prosecution suggested that the jurors may have acquitted the officers because of becoming desensitized to the violence of the beating, as the defense played the videotape repeatedly in slow motion, breaking it down until its emotional impact was lost.\n\nOutside the Simi Valley courthouse where the acquittals were delivered, county sheriff's deputies protected Stacey Koon from angry protesters on the way to his car. Movie director John Singleton, who was in the crowd at the courthouse, predicted, \"By having this verdict, what these people done, they lit the fuse to a bomb.\"\n\nLos Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley created the Independent Commission on the Los Angeles Police Department, also known as the Christopher Commission, in April 1991. Led by attorney Warren Christopher, it was created to conduct \"a full and fair examination of the structure and operation of the LAPD,\" including its recruitment and training practices, internal disciplinary system, and citizen complaint system.\n\nThough few people at first considered race an important factor in the case, including Rodney King's attorney, Steven Lerman, the Holliday videotape was at the time stirring deep resentment among African Americans in Los Angeles, as well as other major cities in the United States, where they had often complained of police abuse against their communities. The officers' jury consisted of Ventura County residents: ten white, one Latino, one Asian. Lead prosecutor Terry White was African American. On April 29, 1992, the jury acquitted three of the officers but could not agree on one of the charges against Powell.\n\nLos Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley said, \"The jury's verdict will not blind us to what we saw on that videotape. The men who beat Rodney King do not deserve to wear the uniform of the LAPD.\" President George H. W. Bush said, \"Viewed from outside the trial, it was hard to understand how the verdict could possibly square with the video. Those civil rights leaders with whom I met were stunned. And so was I and so was Barbara and so were my kids.\"\n\nWithin hours of the acquittals, the 1992 Los Angeles riots began, lasting six days. African-Americans were outraged by the verdicts and began rioting in the streets along with the Latino communities. By the time law enforcement, the California Army National Guard, the United States Army, and the United States Marine Corps restored order, the riots had resulted in 63 deaths, 2,383 injuries, more than 7,000 fires, damage to 3,100 businesses, and nearly $1 billion in financial losses. Smaller riots occurred in other U.S. cities such as San Francisco, Las Vegas in neighboring Nevada, Seattle in Washington state, and as far east as Atlanta in Georgia and New York City. A minor riot erupted on Yonge Street in Toronto, Ontario, Canada as a result of the acquittals.\n\nDuring the riots, on May 1, 1992, King made a television appearance in which he said,\n\nI just want to say – you know – can we all get along? Can we, can we get along? Can we stop making it horrible for the older people and the kids? And... I mean we've got enough smog in Los Angeles let alone to deal with setting these fires and things ... it's just not right – it's not right. And it's not going to change anything. We'll get our justice; they've won the battle, but they haven't won the war. We'll get our day in court and that's all we want. And, just, uh, I love – I'm neutral, I love every – I love people of color. I'm not like they're making me out to be. We've got to quit – we've got to quit; I mean after-all, I could understand the first – upset for the first two hours after the verdict, but to go on, to keep going on like this and to see the security guard shot on the ground – it's just not right; it's just not right, because those people will never go home to their families again. And uh, I mean please, we can, we can get along here. We all can get along – we just gotta, we gotta. I mean, we're all stuck here for a while, let's, you know let's try to work it out, let's try to beat it, you know, let's try to work it out.\nThe widely quoted line has been often paraphrased as, \"Can we all \"just\" get along?\" or \"\"Can't\" we all just get along?\"\n\nAfter the acquittals and the riots, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) sought indictments of the police officers for violations of King's civil rights. On May 7, federal prosecutors began presenting evidence to the federal grand jury in Los Angeles. On August 4, the grand jury returned indictments against the three officers for \"willfully and intentionally using unreasonable force\" and against Sergeant Koon for \"willfully permitting and failing to take action to stop the unlawful assault\" on King. Based on these indictments, a trial of the four officers in the United States District Court for the Central District of California began on February 25, 1993.\n\nThe federal trial focused more on the incident. On March 9 of the 1993 trial, King took the witness stand and described to the jury the events as he remembered them. The jury found Officer Laurence Powell and Sergeant Stacey Koon guilty, and they were subsequently sentenced to 30 months in prison. Timothy Wind and Theodore Briseno were acquitted of all charges.\n\nDuring the three-hour sentencing hearing U.S. District Judge John Davies, accepted much of the defense version of the beating. He strongly criticized King, who he said provoked the officers' initial actions. Davies said that only the final six or so baton blows by Powell were unlawful. The first 55 seconds of the videotaped portion of the incident, during which the vast majority of the blows were delivered, was within the law because the officers were attempting to subdue a suspect who was resisting efforts to take him into custody.\n\nDavies found that King's provocative behavior began with his \"remarkable consumption of alcoholic beverage\" and continued through a high-speed chase, refusal to submit to police orders, and an aggressive charge toward Powell. Davies made several findings in support of the officers' version of events. He concluded that Officer Powell never intentionally struck King in the head, and \"Powell's baton blow that broke King's leg was not illegal because King was still resisting and rolling around on the ground, and breaking bones in resistant suspects is permissible under police policy.\"\n\nMitigation cited by the judge in determining the length of the prison sentence included the suffering the officers had undergone because of the extensive publicity their case had received, high legal bills that were still unpaid, the impending loss of their careers as police officers, their higher risks of abuse while in prison, and their undergoing two trials. The judge acknowledged that the two trials did not legally constitute double jeopardy, but nonetheless raised \"the specter of unfairness\".\n\nThese mitigations were critical to the validity of the sentences imposed, because federal sentencing guidelines called for much longer prison terms in the range of 70 to 87 months. The low sentences were controversial, and were appealed by the prosecution. In a 1994 ruling, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit rejected all the grounds cited by Judge Davies and extended the terms. The case was appealed by the defense to the U.S. Supreme Court. Both Koon and Powell were released from prison while they appealed the Ninth Circuit's ruling, having served their original 30-month sentences with time off for good behavior. On June 14, 1996, the high court reversed the lower court in a ruling, unanimous in its most important aspects, which gave a strong endorsement to judicial discretion, even under sentencing guidelines intended to produce uniformity.\n\nLos Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley offered King $200,000 and a four-year college education funded by the city of Los Angeles. King refused and sued the city, winning $3.8 million. Bryant Allen, one of the passengers in King's car on the night of the incident, received $35,000 in his lawsuit against the city of Los Angeles. The estate of Freddie Helms, the other passenger, settled for $20,000; Helms died in a car accident on June 29, 1991, age 20, in Pasadena. King invested a portion of his settlement in a record label, Straight Alta-Pazz Records, hoping to employ minority employees, but it went out of business. He later wrote a memoir (with help of a ghostwriter) and made a movie about his life.\n\nKing was subject to further arrests and convictions for driving violations after the 1991 incident, as he struggled with alcohol and drug addiction. On August 21, 1993, he crashed his car into a block wall in downtown Los Angeles. He was convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol, fined, and entered a rehabilitation program, after which he was placed on probation. In July 1995, he was arrested by Alhambra police after hitting his wife with his car and knocking her to the ground. He was sentenced to 90 days in jail after being convicted of hit and run.\n\nOn August 27, 2003, King was arrested again for speeding and running a red light while under the influence of alcohol. He failed to yield to police officers and slammed his vehicle into a house, breaking his pelvis. On November 29, 2007, while riding home on his bicycle, King was shot in the face, arms, and back with pellets from a shotgun. He reported that the attackers were a man and a woman who demanded his bicycle and shot him when he rode away. Police described the wounds as looking as if they came from birdshot.\n\nIn May 2008, King checked into the Pasadena Recovery Center in Pasadena, California, where he filmed as a cast member of season 2 of \"Celebrity Rehab with Dr. Drew\", which premiered in October 2008. Dr. Drew Pinsky, who runs the facility, showed concern for King's life and said he would die unless his addiction was treated. King also appeared on \"Sober House\", a \"Celebrity Rehab\" spin-off focusing on a sober living environment. During his time on \"Celebrity Rehab\" and \"Sober House\", King worked on his addiction and what he said was lingering trauma of the beating. He and Pinsky physically retraced King's path from the night of his beating, eventually reaching the spot where it happened, the site of the Children's Museum of Los Angeles.\n\nIn 2009, King and other \"Celebrity Rehab\" alumni appeared as panel speakers to a new group of addicts at the Pasadena Recovery Center, marking 11 months of sobriety for him. His appearance was aired in the third-season episode \"Triggers\". King won a celebrity boxing match against Chester, Pennsylvania police officer Simon Aouad on September 11, 2009, at the Ramada Philadelphia Airport in Essington.\n\nOn September 9, 2010, it was confirmed that King was going to marry Cynthia Kelly, who had been a juror in the civil suit he brought against the City of Los Angeles. On March 3, 2011, the 20th anniversary of the beating, the LAPD stopped King for driving erratically and issued him a citation for driving with an expired license. This arrest led to a February 2012 misdemeanor conviction for reckless driving.\n\nThe BBC quoted King commenting on his legacy. \"Some people feel like I'm some kind of hero. Others hate me. They say I deserved it. Other people, I can hear them mocking me for when I called for an end to the destruction, like I'm a fool for believing in peace.\"\n\nIn April 2012, King published his memoir, \"\". Co-authored by Lawrence J. Spagnola, the book describes King's turbulent youth as well as his personal account of the arrest, the trials, and the aftermath.\n\nOn Fathers Day, Sunday June 17, 2012, Cynthia Kelly found King lying underwater at the bottom of his swimming pool. King's death was 28 years after his father Ronald King was found dead in his bathtub in 1984. Both were alcoholics, and both were victims of drowning, on the same holiday 28 years apart. Police in Rialto received a 911 call from Kelly at about 5:25 a.m. (PDT). Responding officers removed King from the pool and attempted to revive him. He was transferred by ambulance to Arrowhead Regional Medical Center in Colton, California and was pronounced dead on arrival at 6:11 a.m. (PDT) The Rialto Police Department began a standard drowning investigation and said there did not appear to be any foul play. On August 23, 2012, King's autopsy results were released, stating he died of accidental drowning. The combination of alcohol, cocaine, and marijuana found in his system were contributing factors. The conclusion of the report stated: \"The effects of the drugs and alcohol, combined with the subject's heart condition, probably precipitated a cardiac arrhythmia, and the subject, incapacitated in the water, was unable to save himself.\" Rev. Al Sharpton delivered the eulogy at King's funeral. King is interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Los Angeles County, California.\n\nRodney King has become a symbol of police brutality, but his family remembers him as a \"human not a symbol\". King never advocated for hatred or violence against the police, saying that we needed to \"all get along\". He made this his foundation for the rest of his life. Since his death, his daughter Lori King has worked with the LAPD to build bridges between the police and the African-American community. She also started a non profit: The Rodney King Foundation for Social Justice and Human Rights, on behalf of her father.\n\nThe beating of Rodney King and its aftermath has been addressed frequently in art, including the 1997 film \"Riot\", an extended discussion on the subject led by Edward Norton in the 1998 film \"American History X\", the 2014 one-man play \"Rodney King\" by Roger Guenveur Smith, produced by Spike Lee and released on Netflix in 2017; and the 2016 exhibit \"Viral: 25 Years from Rodney King\". Lee included a snippet of the Rodney King video in his 1992 film \"Malcolm X\". Morgan Freeman and Lori McCreary will be producing a docuseries through their company Revelations Entertainment on the life of Rodney King, to be released in 2018. The beating is also briefly mentioned in \"\" and \"Law & Order True Crime\" where Rodney King's case is referenced as the main reason for the outcome of the cases these two anthology miniseries are based on. The beating of Rodney King and the riots that followed were also mentioned in the 2015 film \"Straight Outta Compton\", a biopic about the rap group N.W.A \n\n\n"}
{"id": "58011440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58011440", "title": "Runa Sandvik", "text": "Runa Sandvik\n\nRuna Sandvik is a computer security expert, known as a proponent of strong encryption. She was hired as \"The New York Times\" senior director of information security in March 2016. She is a proponent of a smartphone messaging application known as \"Signal\".\n\nShe acquired her first computer when she was fifteen years old.\n\nShe studied computer science at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology.\n\nIn 2014 Sandvik married Michael Auger, and the pair made their home in Washington DC.\n\nSandvik was an early developer of the Tor anonymity network, a cooperative facility that helps individuals obfuscate the internet protocol they are using to access the internet.\n\nSandvik is a technical advisor to the Freedom of the Press Foundation.\n\nShe serves on the review board of Black Hat Europe.\n\nSandvik interviewed Edward Snowden in May 2014.\n\nIn February 2015 Sandvik documented her efforts to retrieve information about herself through FOIA reqests..\n\nSandvik, and her husband, Auger, demonstrated how smart rifles with remote access can be remotely hacked. The $13,000 TrackingPoint sniper rifle is equipped with an embedded linux computer. According to \"Wired magazine\", when used according to its specifications, the aiming computer can enable a novice to hit remote targets that would otherwise require a skilled marksman. However the manufacturers designed the aiming computer with WiFi capabilities, so the shooter could upload video of their shots. Sandvik and Auger found they could initiate a Unix shell command line interpreter, and use it to alter parameters the aiming computer relies on, so that it will always miss its targets. They found that a knowledgeable hacker could use the shell to acquire root access. Acquiring root access allowed an interloper to erase all the aiming computer's software -- \"bricking\" the aiming computer.\n\nSandvik led efforts to make \"The New York Times\" a Tor Onion service, allowing \"Times\" employees and readers to access the newspaper's site in ways that impede intrusive government monitoring.\n\n"}
{"id": "49358028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49358028", "title": "Samuel Nlend", "text": "Samuel Nlend\n\nSamuel Nlend (born 15 March 1995), is a Cameroonian footballer who plays as a forward.\n\nIn August 2016, he signed for Al Ittihad Alexandria Club but was released four days later due to testing positive for HIV/AIDS which prevented him from getting his work permit in Egypt.\n"}
{"id": "42104661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42104661", "title": "Savukku", "text": "Savukku\n\nSavukku () is an anonymous, non-profit, whistle blowing website. The website has been called the Tamil's WikiLeaks. The site publishes articles in Tamil and English. It is known for leaking sensational 2G spectrum case taped conversation and publishing articles on corrupt government employees, politicians, judges, journalists and socio-political affairs. It is believed to be run by Savukku Shankar alias Achimuthu Shankar, a former lower division clerk in the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption. On 28 February 2014, the website was blocked on Madras High Court orders after a writ for defamation was filed by a Sun TV employee, Mahalakshmi. In a different matter, Shankar was charged under Sections 66, 70 and 72 of the Information Technology Act, alleged to have leaked the conversation between former Chief Secretary to Government and former Director of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. He was acquitted on 24 February 2017.\n\nThe website publishes articles anonymously, they say, about corrupt government employees, politicians, judges and journalists. It was started in September 2010. It does not give any information about the owner(s) or the publisher(s) of posts on website, but is said to have run by Achimuthu Shankar, a former lower division clerk in the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption. In 2008, Shankar allegedly leaked the transcript of a taped conversation between S. K. Upadhyay, then director of DVAC, and L. K. Tripathi, then chief secretary of the state to the \"Deccan Chronicle\" English daily newspaper. He was found guilty and arrested and was subjected to the third-degree torture and was forced to swear against some officers. After being released on bail, he started collecting information through Right to information act, and later made a blog post to make public the information he has gathered. It allegedly led to the second arrest of Shankar, but on charges of \"road rage\". Thereafter he converted his blog into a website called, \"Savukku\" to expose corruption.\n\nThe first blog post was published anonymously on the website in September 2010 and it presently has around 960 posts since then including the 2G taped conversation.\n\nIn 2010-2011, when Aam Aadmi Party leader and senior advocate Prashant Bhushan released the tapes of alleged conversation between Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Rajya Sabha member Kanimozhi and the then Tamil Nadu police chief of intelligence, Jaffar Sait, it was said to have made public by the website three days earlier.\n\nOn 1 February 2014, the website had publicly posted four tapes exposing the conversation between Kanimozhi and former additional director general of police Jaffer Sait and between Jaffer Sait and Sharad Kumar Reddy, a former director of Kalaignar TV owned by Karunanidhi. The authenticity of the taped conversation has not yet been challenged by either Kanimozhi or Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party.\n\nMahalakshmi, an advocate and Sun TV newsreader had lodged a defamation case against the website for writing about her personal life, that she claimed have degraded her reputation. She later filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court citing inactivity of the police.\n\nOn 28 February 2014, the Madras High Court ordered the Joint Secretary, Cyber Law Division of Union Department of Information Technology to block the website within ten days and called other affected individuals to lodge separate police cases, on hearing the writ petition filed by Mahalakshmi. The court said that,\n\nOn 2 March 2014, following the court orders to block the website, many proxies were created to evade the block. The website continued to host mirrors of the site \"Savukku\", this time naming the Judge of the Madras High Court who is hearing the case.\n\nAchimuthu Shankar is a former lower division clerk in the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption, which he joined in 1991. In 2008, he allegedly made public sensational information which included taped conversation between S. K. Upadhyay, then Director of Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption, and L. K. Tripathi, then Chief Secretary, through the Deccan Chronicle English daily newspaper. Following the leak of sensitive information in public, the then Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government of the Tamil Nadu state appointed a commission headed by Judge P. Shanmugam to probe the leak. Shankar was found guilty by the commission of inquiry. However, Shankar denied the allegations and said, \"charges were false and he was contesting them in courts\". He also said that, he was made to face the third degree torture and was forced to bear witness against some officials. He was later released on bail.\n\nIn mid-2010, He published a blog post of information collected through the Right to information act and he was arrested on the charges of road rage next day. He said, \"The next day I was arrested on some false charges of road rage. I was expecting them to [arrest me]. They did not disappoint\".\n\nHe later upgraded his blog into a website after receiving encouragement by readers. In 2011, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government lost the polls to form the government. Shankar opined, even though the new government, many stuffs related to social welfare still do not reach to public. He said, \n\nShankar is an admirer of V. Prabhakaran, chief of LTTE. The website had a picture of V. Prabhakaran on one side and a picture of a cowboy with a whip on the other side of the header. He continued to publish articles along with contesting the suspension of him from Department of Vigilance and Anti-corruption. He is called the Tamil's Julian Assange.\n\nThe website was the first to release the 2G tapes ahead of Prasant Bushan. An audio of conversation between, Kalaignar TV MD, Sharad Kumar and former TN Intelligence Chief Jaffer Sait IPS \n\nThe website was the first to expose the arithmetical errors in the judgment of Justice CR Kumarasamy, acquitting Selvi Jayalalitha, CM of Tamil Nadu in the month of May 2015 \n\nOn 31 January 2014, A Puducherry-based web designer Murugaiyan was arrested by the Cyber Crime Police of Chennai for designing the website. After 21 days of imprisonment, Murugaiyan was released on bail by the Madras High Court.\n\nOn 24 July 2014, Following the Madras High Court orders, Central Crime Branch arrested Pothi Kalimuthu on charge of hosting the website. He allegedly did own the website domain located in France and maintained a server located in Singapore for the website. The CCB officers had to make a request to the France Telecom through the Department of Telecommunications to reveal the address of the owner of the website domain.\n\nIn a conversation, Achimuthu Shankar said to Indian Express English daily newspaper that, he met Kalimuthu online. Kalimuthu offered his help with making of new website after the original website was blocked on court orders and refused to take money for hosting the website.\n\nProfessor A. Marx, a human rights activist said that, one may not necessarily agree with the contents posted by the website but the blocking the website is unacceptable. The affected individuals are free to take legal action separately.\n\nP. Sundarajan, a lawyer opined that, \"this is most unfortunate\", and the particular Judge should refrain himself from hearing the case because he was also written about by the website and \"this order is nothing but a mockery of justice\".\n\n\"Citizens for Freedom of Expression\", an organisation comprising senior advocates and activists said that they will prosecute in the case on behalf of the website and said that, \"the court order is a serious threat to freedom of expression\".\n\nA former BBC Tamil employee T.N. Gopalan filed a PIL in the Madras High Court, requesting the court to resist government from blocking the website except in the case described in the \"Information Technology Rules, 2009\". Gopalan said that, he was not expecting the block on website which has discovered several scams and investigates and publishes information in public welfare.\n\nJ. Anbazhgan, president of \"Chennai Union of Journalists\" said that the union believes that the complaint filed by Mahalakhsmi is not accurate and is related to the ownership of 2G tapes by Shankar and a representative from the union has met the chief minister J. Jayalalitha, to provide relief to Shankar.\n\nSavukku Shankar was acquitted by the XVII Additional Sessions Court Chennai on 24 February 2017. Shankar was charged under Sections 66, 70 and 72 of the Information Technology Act and was alleged to have leaked the conversation between former Chief Secretary to Government and former Director of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption.\n"}
{"id": "912988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912988", "title": "Spokestoon", "text": "Spokestoon\n\nA spokestoon is an established cartoon character who is hired to endorse a product. It should not be equated with a cartoon character invented specifically to give identity to a product, such as the Michelin Man, Speedy Alka-Seltzer or the Pillsbury Doughboy. For these and more, see List of advertising characters.\n\nWhen the United States entered World War II, well-known celebrities already highly placed in American popular culture, such as Donald Duck and Bugs Bunny, joined the war effort, donating their highly visible images for patriotic and informative cartoons. Bambi, loaned by Walt Disney for one year (1943) to the US Forest Service, was the precursor of the purposely-created Smokey.\n\nToons have also lent their celebrity to individual events, such as Pogo for Earth Day in 1970, or The Smurfs to UNICEF in 2005.\n\nSince then, many high-profile celebrity toons have turned their skills to corporate product placement. Though fast food franchises have used gimmicks to tie-in temporarily with current releases of animated features since the 1950s, a few toons have become more permanently associated with a product or service offered by corporate culture and may be considered genuine spokestoons.\n\nEarly recorded usages of \"spokestoon\", in newspaper articles of October 1995 related to the Disney Corporation's use of characters from \"The Lion King\" to promote good nutrition in children, were preceded by a March 25, 1995 feature in the Portland, Maine \"Press Herald\", noting \"Buster Brown, the comic strip character who became the \"spokestoon\" for the children's shoe line.\"\n\nAmong these spokestoons and the products they are identified with:\n\n"}
{"id": "15936982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15936982", "title": "Tomás Terry", "text": "Tomás Terry\n\nTomás Terry y Adán (24 February 1808 in Caracas, Venezuela – 5 July 1886 in Paris, France) was a Cuban business magnate.\n\nOf Irish paternal descent, Terry was born in Caracas to Spanish-born José Antonio Terry y Mendoza, who had settled in Venezuela from Cádiz, and wife Tomasa Adán y España. Following the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland, the Terrys had fled their hometown of Cork for Catholic countries such as Spain, France and the states of the Italian peninsula. The Spanish branch, established in Cádiz and El Puerto de Santa María, became involved in trade with the Indies and Sherry production quite successfully, as in less than a decade from their arrival many of its members were knighted in the Order of Santiago and Guillermo Terry was granted the title of Marquis of la Cañada by King Philip V, on 8 September 1729.\n\nTerry initially became involved in the slave trade in Cuba, making his first $10,000 by buying sick slaves, nursing them back to health, and then reselling them healthy for a large profit. He bought the \"Caracas\" sugar mill for $23,000, and upgraded it to be the first in Cuba to use electricity. He went on to make a fortune through involvement in all aspects of the economy, from the sugar trade and slave trade to banking and imports, becoming the dominant businessman in Cienfuegos and earning the nickname the \"Cuban Croesus\". His fortune grew to be among the largest in the world, with a net worth of about $725,000 in 1851, $3,090,00 in 1860, $7,890,000 in 1870, $13,760,000 in 1880, and over $25,000,000 at his death in 1886, which occurred in Paris, where he was buried in Père Lachaise Cemetery (division 92).\n\nOn 31 October 1837, Terry married Teresa Dorticós y Gómez de Leys, daughter of Andrés Dorticós, a prominent local merchant and governor of Cienfuegos, and María del Carmen Gómez de Leys y La Puente. They had 10 children:\n\nCorrection: Sibyl Sanderson was Antonio Terry's second wife. Grace Dalton Secor was Antonio Terry's first wife. Antonio Terry and Grace Dalton Secor were married in 1876 in New York City and their daughter, Natividad Marta Maria Dolores Mercedes Terry, was born in 1881. She was Sibyl Sanderson's stepdaughter. The engagement of Sibyl Sanderson to Antonio Terry was announced in the New York Herald in August of 1894.\n"}
{"id": "6808851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6808851", "title": "Trump family", "text": "Trump family\n\nTrump (; ; ) is a German and German-American family, descended from Johann Philipp Trump (1667–1707) from Kallstadt, then in the Electoral Palatinate, Holy Roman Empire, today in modern Germany.\n\nWhile the surname Trump is found throughout Germany, it is recorded as the name of this family in Kallstadt since the 17th century, where many family members were winegrowers. Family members also still live in the family's ancestral region in southwestern Germany.\n\nSeveral family members moved to and formed cadet branches in the United States in the 19th century, among them Charlotte Louisa Trump's son Johann Heinrich Heinz, the father of Henry J. Heinz, the founder of the Heinz company. A prominent branch of the family is the line descended from Friedrich (Frederick) Trump (1869–1918) and his wife Elisabeth (née Christ; 1880–1966), both natives of Kallstadt.\n\nThe German-American Trump family have been prominent in the fields of real estate, entertainment, and politics. Its most famous member is Donald Trump, the 45th President of the United States.\n\n\"Trump\" is a German surname derived from either the word for \"drum\" or for \"trumpet\". The name is on record in Kallstadt from the 17th century.\n\nGwenda Blair suggests the family may be descended from an itinerant lawyer, Hanns Drumpf, who settled in Kallstadt in 1608 and whose descendants changed their name from Drumpf to Trump during the Thirty Years' War of the 1600s. However, this is not in accordance with data provided by German genealogists. Journalist Kate Connolly, visiting Kallstadt, found several variations in spelling of the surname in the village archives (including Drumb, Tromb, Tromp, Trum, Trumpff, Dromb) but her article does not note \"Drumpf\". There are no indications that other spellings of the name, including Trumpf, could be related to the Trumps.\nJohannes Trump from the nearby village Bobenheim am Berg had established himself as a winegrower in Kallstadt by the late 17th century. Several of his descendants also were vintners in Kallstadt, one of many villages in the famous wine-growing region of the Palatinate (\"Pfalz\"). Charlotte Louisa Trump (1789–1833) married Johann Georg Heinz, and their son Johann Heinrich (John Henry) Heinz (1811–1891) emigrated from Kallstadt to the United States in 1840 and was the father of Henry J. Heinz (1844–1919), the founder of the Heinz company.\n\nThe grandfather of Donald Trump is Frederick Trump who was born 1869 in Kallstadt as Friedrich Trump.\n\nFriedrich Trump was one of six children of a winegrower and a second cousin of Henry J. Heinz, the founder of Heinz. Friedrich learned the profession of hairdresser. In 1885, at the age of 16, Friedrich emigrated from Kallstadt to the United States. As he did not yet serve the mandatory military duty of two years in the Kingdom of Bavaria, this emigration was illegal. He anglicized his name to \"Frederick\" in 1892 when he became a U.S. citizen. During the Alaska Gold Rush, he amassed a fortune by opening restaurants and hotels for gold seekers on their way to the region. While visiting home, Frederick fell in love with Elisabeth Christ (1880–1966) and married her in 1902. She was also a native of Kallstadt, and born as the daughter of Philipp and Marie Christ. Philipp Christ was descended from Johannes Christ (1626–1688/9) of Flörsheim, Hesse.\n\nFrederick and Mary were the parents of Elizabeth Trump (1904–1961), real estate developer Fred Trump (1905–1999) and physicist John G. Trump (1907–1985). Frederick sold his business and settled with Elizabeth in New York City. The family attempted to return to Bavaria, but this was not allowed because of the illegal emigration years earlier. Trump tried unsuccessfully to avoid the deportation by writing to Luitpold. On 1 July 1905 they boarded the \"Pennsylvania\". Three months later, Fred Trump Jr. was born in the Bronx. Frederick died of the Spanish flu on May 30, 1918.\n\nFred Trump was one of the biggest real estate developers in New York. Using their inheritance, Fred and his mother Elizabeth founded \"E. Trump & Son\". Fred married Mary MacLeod (1912–2000), a native of Tong, a small village near Stornoway, in the Western Isles of Scotland. She was the daughter of fisherman Malcolm MacLeod and Mary MacLeod (née Smith). At age 17, she immigrated to the United States and started working as a maid in New York. Fred and Mary met in New York and married in 1936, settling together in Queens. Mary became a U.S. citizen in 1942. Fred was the father of the businessman Donald Trump, who became president of the real estate company in 1971, and renamed it the Trump Organization. Donald Trump has said that he is \"proud\" of his German heritage, having served as grand marshal of the 1999 German-American Steuben Parade in New York City. While walking through the city and seeing Trump Tower, Donald Trump recalled saying: \"This is a long way from Kallstadt.\"\n\nStories about famous emigrants are common in the region, where many people have relations abroad. In 2015, a Kallstadt filmmaker (and remote relative of Trump) produced a documentary in which Trump promised to visit Kallstadt. The media interest in the region increased with Trump's election, but the local reaction was mixed, as \"The villagers used to have a better opinion of Donald Trump, before he started his boisterous campaign.\" There is not much interest in becoming a place of pilgrimage for Trump aficionados; unrelated tourism is already flourishing. The house where Trump's grandfather was born is currently for sale.\n\nPresident Donald Trump has married thrice, to Ivana Zelníčková, Marla Maples and Melania Knauss.\n\nPresident Trump has five children of which four are adult children from two previous marriages: Donald Jr., Ivanka, and Eric Trump with Ivana Trump, and Tiffany Trump with Marla Maples. Trump has one son with Melania Trump, Barron, born on March 20, 2006. He is the first pre-teen son to live in the White House since John F. Kennedy Jr. arrived as an infant in 1961. All three of his children with Ivana Trump were Executive Vice Presidents at The Trump Organization until Trump was elected President. Tiffany Trump is a recent college graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, her father's alma mater.\n\nThe original Trump family in Germany are Lutheran members of the Evangelical Church of the Palatinate, although that region has been overwhelmingly Calvinist since Frederick III, Elector Palatine introduced the Reformed faith in the mid 16th century. Members of the family's American branch, beginning with Mary Anne McLeod, tend to be Presbyterians, Dutch Reformed or adherents of other Reformed denominations. Donald Trump's parents belonged to the Reformed Church in America, although he was confirmed at one of the Presbyterian Church (USA) congregations himself. This matter of membership, like in case of many American Protestants, does not play a big role since he attends services of both denominations and other ones that are part of the Reformed tradition, and sometimes even some that subscribe to other Protestant branches (like the Episcopal Church (USA), an Anglican denomination).\n\nIn 2016, Donald Trump visited Bethesda-by-the-Sea, an Episcopal Church, for a Christmas service.\n\nIvanka Trump practices Judaism, having converted upon marrying her husband Jared Kushner.\n"}
{"id": "55549439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55549439", "title": "William Blattner", "text": "William Blattner\n\nWilliam A. Blattner is an American virologist and physician known for his pioneering studies on the epidemiology of human retroviruses. He is a professor of medicine at the University of Maryland School of Medicine, where he co-founded the Institute of Human Virology (IHV) with Robert Gallo and Robert R. Redfield in 1996. He subsequently helped found the Institute of Human Virology, Nigeria, which has screened over 1 million Nigerians for HIV/AIDS. He retired from his position as associate director of the IHV and director of its Division of Epidemiology and Prevention on January 31, 2016. He is also the founding editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes\", and serves as its co-editor-in-chief along with Paul A. Volberding.\nBlattner received his bachelor's degree in 1966 and his medical degree in 1970, both from Washington University. He then worked for the National Cancer Institute for 22 years before joining the faculty of the University of Maryland School of Medicine in 1995.\nAlong with his then-colleague Gallo at the National Cancer Institute, Blattner defined the link between HTLV-1 and adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma, and played an important role working alongside Gallo on his pioneering research on HIV and AIDS.\nBlattner has received the Alumni Achievement Award from Washington University. He has also received the John Snow Award from the U.S. Public Health Service and the American Public Health Association.\n"}
{"id": "16046806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16046806", "title": "Willie Phua", "text": "Willie Phua\n\nWillie Phua (born 20 February 1928) is a Singaporean news cameramen who is known for his news and feature work covering poignant moments in Asian history over more than three decades. He is the subject of an Australian book published in 2010 called \"Capturing Asia\", by former foreign correspondent Bob Wurth. During his years working on risky assignments, Phua captured many images of wars and uprisings, economic 'miracles' and social upheavals, and the rise and fall of dictators.\n\nPhua's camerawork was seen in Australia through the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, but his most important assignments were also shown around the world, sometimes on the BBC. He was one of the few TV cameramen to capture the \"Tank Man\" briefly holding back Chinese tanks near Tiananmen Square in Beijing in 1989.\n\nIn 1933 Phua came from Hainan island to Singapore with his mother, Phua Tan Tee, to join his father Phua Gee Wah, at the age of five to find a better life on the British isle. Hainan at that time was wracked by insurgency and the island swept by damaging typhoons.\n\nPhua has clear recollections as a youth of the Japanese invasion of Singapore and the subsequent occupation of the island in 1942. On the morning of 8 December 1941, a bomb whistled down and crashed into a well near the servants' quarters in the League of Nations compound off River Valley Road where Phua lived. Japan's war had come to Singapore. To the dismay of his mother, Phua, aged 12, ran into the compound and picked up a piece of still warm metal, a fragment from one of the first Japanese bombs to fall on Singapore: \"I was a little bit frightened but also excited. This was something exciting for a boy of my age. It was the first bombing attack on Singapore. We didn’t know the Japanese were coming here until these bombs fell.\"\n\nPhua still remembers during the invasion of Singapore, watching the retreat of the British and Australians through the streets and of a young, bewildered Allied soldier sitting in the gutter, weeping. During the invasion, Phua's neighbourhood was shelled by Japanese artillery. He survived by crouching in a stinking storm drain in Killinery Road with his mother. One shell landed nearby killing a neighbour.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation, the youth traded in cigarettes and was chased by Japanese soldiers when plying his trade: \"I passed a Japanese soldier with his rifle over his shoulder. In the usual way, I asked if he had any tobacco. He looked at me and suddenly lifted his hand and took a big swing at my face. I ducked to avoid it. As I was turning around to run I saw him take the rifle from his shoulder. I ran for my life. I was terrified.\" Young Phua escaped and changed his trading habits. His mother made curry puffs and Phua sold them to Australian prisoners-of-war being marched through the streets.\n\nPhua's mother obtained work as a cook in the kitchen of Japanese brothels in Cairnhill Road and the young Phua became her messenger. He recalls the sadness of some of the so-called \"comfort women\", the Koreans forced into prostitution by the Japanese: \"I did errands for the girls and would also buy things for the Japanese soldiers. The girls always seemed to want food. When the women had a Japanese client, especially if they had found a captain or a higher rank, they would say ‘I’m hungry’ and ask the soldiers to buy noodles for them.\" \n\nAfter the war Phua became a salesman at Singapore's Amateur Photo Shop, before becoming a freelance cameraman in the early 1960s with Singapore's RTV and BCINA (British Commonwealth International News Agency) which later became Visnews (now Reuters Television) and Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC).\n\nOn the first day he signed up as a freelance cameraman for Radio Television Singapore (RTS) in 1963, a large fire broke out at the Bukit Ho Swee squatter settlement in Singapore. Quickly on the scene, he captured the population fleeing the flames and his film was shown on RTS within a few hours. Four people were killed, 85 injured and 16,000 shanty houses were destroyed.\n\nPhua went on to cover violent race riots in Singapore and Kuala Lumpur and clashes in Borneo as Indonesia's President Sukarno pressed his Konfrontasi, or Confrontation policy, with the newly established Malaysia.\n\nIn 1971 he filmed Pakistani Army killings during the birth of the new state of Bangladesh, then East Pakistan. Phua's then correspondent on the assignment, Australian Don Hook, remembers: \"From the roof of the Inter-Continental Hotel in Dacca, Phua shot graphic film of horrific events in the street below. Soldiers had deliberately set fire to a newspaper building. As newspaper staff ran from the blazing building there were bursts of automatic fire followed by screams and calls for help.\" Hook and Phua, along with other media people, were rounded up and forced to fly out of the country.\n\nPhua had seven lengthy assignments to cover the Vietnam war during 1971 and 1972. Once working with ABC correspondent Athol Meyer he was shelled at an American base in the central highlands. He was almost killed in the war in April 1972 when the South Vietnamese patrol boat he was aboard came under machine gun and rocket fire on the Saigon River. The patrol boat’s gunner was the first to be hit by Viet Cong fire and lost a leg. Then Phua's sound recordist was severely wounded in the leg.\n\nPhua covered the major riots in Manila which followed the assassination of opposition leader Benigno Aquino at Manila International Airport in August 1983. While filming the shooting of demonstrators by soldiers at Mendiola Bridge near the presidential palace that year, he was hit by a hail of rocks, but his injuries were not major.\n\nPhua was known to many Asian leaders over the years. Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi would welcome him in New Delhi with the words: \"Ah, my good Chinese friend.\" Says Phua: \"Frankly, I think she was a nice person.\" Philippines foreign minister Carlos Romulo would single him out in a press pack and take him aside for a chat. ABC correspondent Peter Munckton recalled the Philippines' first lady Imelda Marcos doing the same.\n\nThe last time he saw Indira Gandhi, he filmed her prone on her death bed after being assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards in 1984.\n\nPhua covered the funeral rites for Gandhi and the subsequent genocide against the Sikhs in New Delhi and elsewhere in India following the assassination. Rioting, burning of buildings and general lawlessness spread throughout New Delhi. The chief of Network Australia, the ABC's overseas TV service, Bruce Dover, was then a correspondent working alongside Phua: \"There was a mob hauling the Sikhs from their homes and breaking their legs so that they couldn’t run away, then pouring oil over them to burn them alive. They were mostly Sikh men but also Sikh boys.\" Phua filmed the mayhem: \"I remember seeing bodies everywhere. It was so gruesome. I only wanted to shoot a little bit—a few wide shots because you couldn’t show the close-ups and then I just wanted to get out of there...The odd policeman just stood around, doing nothing.\"\n\nThe ABC’s long-time New Delhi driver, Joseph Madan, who still works for the ABC in New Delhi, says Phua saved his life. Phua was surrounded by angry mobs on several occasions and repeatedly put his life at risk. He filmed truck loads of the bodies of Sikhs, including children, who had been burned to death in Delhi.\n\nAmong the many memorable images he captured were those of a lone bag-carrying demonstrator known as Tank Man confronting People's Liberation Army (PLA) tanks during Beijing's Tiananmen Square uprising in 1989. The ABC's bureau chief in Asia at the time, Tony Eastley, says he believes there were two television cameramen who captured the iconic television images of the 'tank man'; Phua and an American cameraman. CNN cameraman Jonathon Schaer told Phua's biographer that he also shot the famous tank scene from a balcony in the same hotel as Phua.\n\nPhua as he filmed could not help acknowledge the bravery of the man holding up the tanks: Outside on the balcony I can see all the tanks coming up and this one single student standing in front of it. I think he is thinking, ‘Run me down if you can!’ And the first tank stopped exactly in front of him and there was some talking going on. And the next thing, he is climbing on top of the tank and he is speaking with the driver. Later on he climbed down and he’s still standing in front of the tank.\" \n\nPhua felt his life had been blessed, as he had many close calls to death in his photojournalist career, according to friend and colleague, John McBeth, writing in Singapore's Straits Times newspaper. Like one time a Vietcong ambush came upon him while filming a German documentary aboard a South Vietnamese patrol boat in the Mekong Delta in 1971.\n\nFor everything else, McBeth said, Phua's formula for success in getting the right scoop lay in the planning on how to seize the best vantage point. For instance, he recalled, Phua spent much of his time getting access to a block of flats to get a good elevated shot of the prison to cover the news of the hanging of two Australian traffickers in Kuala Lumpur in 1986, for ABC. He also attributed calm and reasoning wit to getting things to work his way, especially towards handling brushes with authorities.\n\nPhua had worked as a cameraman throughout Asia for well over three decades when he was pressured into retirement by a back that could no longer carry heavy camera equipment. He realised the need to retire when climbing Japan's Mount Fuji in 1993 on an assignment with ABC Tokyo correspondent Philip Williams and sound recordist Jone Chang, as Williams recalls: \"As you get higher, it gets harder ... we were going with Willie and a couple of others and we were all carrying gear. There were ten stations to go through. Willie finally said, ‘You’ll have to go on without me.' It was in fact the end of the road for him, I think, symbolically and in a very real sense. He left the ABC and the industry very shortly after that.\"\n\nPhua was later invited to join the board of a Malaysian finance and entertainment company, DKH-George Town Holdings group, chaired by Tunku Abdullah.\n\nIn November 1996, Phua received the Honorary Medal of the Order of Australia for his services. The citation for Phua's award read:‘Mr Phua’s camera work has been responsible for Australians seeing all aspects of life in Asia, thus stimulating Australian interest in the region.’ The award was presented by New South Wales Governor Gordon Samuels. In 1993, Phua officially retired from his news-hunting days.\n\nIn a foreword to Phua's biography in 2010, the managing director of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Mark Scott, said Phua was long regarded as one of the finest news cameramen in Asia: \"From 1963 on, so much of what Australians learnt and understood about Asia came to them through the lens of an unseen yet unforgettable Chinese-born cameraman called Willie Phua.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8158976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8158976", "title": "Yan Huang Zisun", "text": "Yan Huang Zisun\n\nYan Huang Zisun () is a term that represents the Chinese people and refers to an ethnocultural identity based on a common ancestry associated with a mythological origin. It is noted that the term specifically refers to the Han ethnic group. \n\nThis term is connected to Yandi (炎帝) and Huangdi (黃帝), in which both figures are considered the legendary ancestors of the Huaxia people who themselves are ancestral to the Han people.\n\nTo this day, the Chinese still refer to themselves with this term.\n\nThe derivation of the term is mentioned as \"Yan Huang Shizhou\" (炎黃世胄) in the National Flag Anthem of the Republic of China.\n\nMa Ying-jeou, President of the Republic of China, has used this term to refer to all Chinese people.\n\n"}
{"id": "2670882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2670882", "title": "Ybyrai Altynsarin", "text": "Ybyrai Altynsarin\n\nYbyrai (Ibrahim) Altynsarin (Kazakh: \"Ыбырай Алтынсарин\"; Russian: \"Ибрай Алтынсарин\", 1841–1889) was a major figure in pre-Soviet Kazakh history. He was the most prominent Kazakh educator of the late 19th century, during the period of Russian colonization of and cultural influence in Kazakhstan. \n\nAltynsarin was born in the Araqaraghai region of Torghai oblast (now Kostanay Province), and in his early career was an inspector of Torghai schools. \n\nHe is best known for introducing a Cyrillic alphabet for the Kazakh language, and was a proponent of teaching in the Western style. However, he opposed the teaching of Orthodox Christian doctrines to non-Russian Kazakhs, but at the same time urged resistance to Tatar language and culture, in favor of Russian and Western influences. As an educator, he opened numerous Kazakh-Russian boarding schools, technical schools and schools for girls. \n\nAltynsarin is also credited with authoring the first Kazakh grammar book, the first Kazakh-Russian newspaper, and with translation of a large number of textbooks and reference works. He was honored by the Imperial Russian government with numerous awards, including the title \"statski sovetnik\" (State Counsellor).\n\nA number of Kazakh institutions, including the Kazakh Academy of Education, Arkalyk State Pedagogical Institute and some streets, schools, and academic awards, are named after Altynsarin. There is an Altynsarin museum in Kostanay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4739134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4739134", "title": "Zivia Lubetkin", "text": "Zivia Lubetkin\n\nZivia Lubetkin ( , , nom de guerre: Celina; 1914–1976) was one of the leaders of the Jewish underground in Nazi-occupied Warsaw and the only woman on the High Command of the resistance group Żydowska Organizacja Bojowa (ŻOB). She survived the Holocaust in German-occupied Poland and immigrated to Mandate Palestine in 1946, at the age of 32.\n\nZivia Lubetkin was born in Poland in Byteń near Słonim (now in Belarus). She joined the Labor Zionist Movement at an early age. During her school years, Lubetkin was educated in Hebrew by private tutors. In her late teens she joined the Zionist youth movement Dror, and in 1938 became a member of its Executive Council.\nAfter Nazi Germany and later the Soviet Union invaded Poland in September 1939 she made a perilous journey from the Soviet occupied part of the country to Warsaw to join the underground there. Also in 1939, she attended the twenty first Zionist Congress as a delegate of the Erez Israel Labor bloc.\n\nIn 1942, Lubetkin helped found the left-wing Zionist Anti-Fascist Bloc. This would be the first resistance organization in the Warsaw Ghetto to confront the German forces in combat. She also, as one of the founders of the ŻOB, served on the Warsaw Jewish community's political council, the Jewish National Committee (Żydowska Komitet Narodowy; ŻKN), and also served on the Coordinating Committee, an umbrella organization comprising the ŻKN and the non-Zionist General Jewish Labour Bund (Bund), that sponsored the ŻOB. During her years of underground activities, the name \"Cywia\" became the code word for Poland in letters sent by various resistance groups both within and outside of the Warsaw Ghetto. She was one of the leaders of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising and one of only 34 fighters to survive the war. After leading her group of surviving fighters through the sewers of Warsaw with the aid of Simcha\" \"Kazik\"\" Rotem in the final days of the ghetto uprising (on May 10, 1943), she continued her resistance activities in the rest of Warsaw outside the ghetto. She took part in the Polish Warsaw Uprising in 1944, fought in the units of the Armia Ludowa. Though the Jewish forces would be devastated by the Germans, Lubetkin and several other survivors would survive by taking refuge in a hospital that was willing to hide them. On March 1st 1945, She attempted to immigrate to Palestine with partisan leader Abba Kovner. This move would be unsuccessful as the only available route was blocked, causing Lubetkin to return to Warsaw.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, Lubetkin was active in the Holocaust survivors community in Europe, and helped organize the \"Bricha\", an organization staffed by operatives who helped Eastern and Central European Jews cross borders en route to Mandate Palestine by illegal immigration channels. She herself immigrated to Mandate Palestine in 1946. She married Yitzhak Zuckerman, the ŻOB commander, and they, along with other surviving ghetto fighters and partisans founded Kibbutz Lohamei HaGeta'ot and the Ghetto Fighters' House museum located on its grounds. In 1961, she testified at the trial of captured Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann.\n\nHer two children, Shimon (b. 1947) and Yael (b. 1949), were born in Kibbutz Lohamei HaGetta’ot, where she lived for the remainder of her life and died in [1976?]. Her granddaughter, Roni Zuckerman, became the Israeli Air Force's first female fighter pilot in 2001.\n\n\n"}
