{"id": "46891982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46891982", "title": "1999 Sun Orchard salmonellosis outbreak", "text": "1999 Sun Orchard salmonellosis outbreak\n\nThe 1999 Sun Orchard salmonellosis outbreak occurred when more than 400 people became infected with \"Salmonella\" Muenchen as a result of drinking contaminated unpasteurized orange juice. The juice was produced by Sun Orchard, based in Tempe, Arizona, and sold to restaurants, hotels, retail and catering outlets in 15 US states and 2 Canadian provinces under a variety of different brand names, including Sun Orchard, Earls, Joey Tomato's, Trader Joe's, Markon, Aloha, Sysco, and Voila! The outbreak resulted in 1 fatality, and is the largest outbreak of salmonellosis associated with unpasteurized juice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7007693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7007693", "title": "2006 North American E. coli O157:H7 outbreak in spinach", "text": "2006 North American E. coli O157:H7 outbreak in spinach\n\nThe 2006 North American \"E. coli\" outbreak was an outbreak from organic spinach. The outbreak occurred in September 2006 and its probable origin was an Angus cattle ranch that had leased land to spinach grower. At least 276 consumer illnesses and 3 deaths have been attributed to the tainted produce.\n\nIn September 2006, there was an outbreak of food-borne illness caused by \"Escherichia coli\" (\"E. coli\") bacteria found in uncooked spinach in 26 U.S. states.\n\nBy October 6, 2006 199 people had been infected, including three people who died and 31 who suffered a type of kidney failure called hemolytic uremic syndrome\nafter eating spinach contaminated with the , a potentially deadly bacterium that causes bloody diarrhea and dehydration. This strain is more potent than in any other food poisoning scares. Federal health officials said half of those reported sick have been hospitalized, compared to 25 to 30 percent in past outbreaks.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) called for bagged fresh spinach to be removed from shelves and warned people not to eat any kind of fresh spinach or fresh spinach-containing products. The FDA has also speculated that washing the spinach is insufficient to sanitize it because the bacteria is systemic, meaning that it is not just on the outside of the spinach, but that it has been absorbed through the roots and is now inside the spinach. This hypothesis has since been deemed only hypothetical as there is no evidence that this can happen in spinach. The FDA has since reduced its warning to certain brands with specific dates.\n\nThe Canadian Food Inspection Agency has advised consumers not to eat fresh spinach from the U.S., including bagged, loose in bulk or in salad blends.\n\nThe outbreak was traced to organic bagged fresh spinach—sold as conventional produce—grown on a farm in San Benito County, California. Investigators with the Centers for Disease Control initially speculated that the dangerous strain of bacteria, , originated from irrigation water contaminated with cattle feces or from grazing deer.\n\nA follow-up report by the CDC and a joint report by the California Department of Health Services (CDHS) and U.S. FDA concluded that the probable source of the outbreak was Paicines Ranch, an Angus cattle ranch that had leased land to spinach grower Mission Organics. The report found 26 samples of \"E. coli\" \"indistinguishable from the outbreak strain\" in water and cattle manure on the San Benito County ranch, some within a mile from the tainted spinach fields. Although officials could not definitively say how the spinach became contaminated, both reports named the presence of wild pigs on the ranch and the proximity of surface waterways to irrigation wells as \"potential environmental risk factors.\" The reports also noted that flaws in the spinach producer's transportation and processing systems could have further spread contamination. Paicines Ranch is not under investigation for its alleged role in the outbreak.\n\nSoon after the reports were released, California's farm industry announced that it will adopt a set of \"good agricultural practices\" to reduce the risk of \"E. coli\" contamination for leafy green vegetables. Those participating in the voluntary program will be eligible for product seal of approval.\n\nTwo companies in California voluntarily recalled spinach and spinach-containing products: Natural Selection Foods LLC, based in San Juan Bautista, and River Ranch Fresh Foods. Natural Selection brands include Natural Selection Foods, Pride of San Juan, Earthbound Farm, Bellissima, Dole, Rave Spinach, Emeril, Sysco, O Organic, Fresh Point, River Ranch, Superior, Nature's Basket, Pro-Mark, Compliments, Trader Joe's, Jansal Valley, Cheney Brothers, D'Arrigo Brothers, Green Harvest, Mann, Mills Family Farm, Premium Fresh, Snoboy, The Farmer's Market, Tanimura & Antle, President's Choice, Cross Valley, and Riverside Farms. Affected brands from River Ranch include Hy-Vee, Farmer's Market and Fresh and Easy. Later, a third company, RLB Food Distributors, issued a multiple East Coast states recall of spinach-containing salad products for possible \"E. coli\" contamination. Natural Selection Foods announced on September 18, 2006 that its organic produce had been cleared of contamination by an independent agency, but did not lift the recalls on any of its organic brands. On September 22, Earthbound Farm announced that the FDA and the CDHS confirmed that its organic spinach had not been contaminated with \"E. coli\".\n\n26 states were affected, with at least 200 cases of the disease being reported as of December 23, 2006. Three deaths were confirmed to be from the outbreak source with an elderly woman in Wisconsin, a two-year-old in Idaho, and an elderly woman in Nebraska. A fourth death of an elderly woman in Maryland is still under investigation to determine if it is linked to this outbreak. Spinach has also been distributed to Canada and Mexico; one case has been reported in Canada. There have been over 400 produce-related outbreaks in North America since 1990.\n\nThe areas reported to be affected are:\n\nIn California, where three-quarters of all domestically grown spinach is harvested, farmers could face up to $74 million in losses due to the \"E. coli\" outbreak. In 2005, the spinach crop in California was valued at $258.3 million, and each acre lost amounts to a roughly $3,500 loss for the farmer.\n\nThe PulseNet system, part of the Association of Public Health Laboratories and coordinated by CDC, detected clusters of infection in two states, Oregon and Wisconsin, which initiated investigations in each state. The first cluster was detected on Friday September 8 in one state, and the second cluster emerged in the second state on Wednesday September 13, by which time PulseNet had also identified potential associated cases in other states.\n\nThe OutbreakNet, a group of state public health officers who investigate foodborne infection outbreaks, shared information with CDC that indicated that Oregon and Wisconsin were considering the same hypothesis: fresh spinach was the possible vehicle of infection. The group tracked and updated the increasing case count and exposure information. During a multistate call on Thursday, September 14, the group noted that the data strongly suggested that fresh spinach was a likely source. Within 24 hours of the outbreak, the data indicated that the outbreak was probably ongoing.\n\nCDC made communication to the public a priority by developing press releases, coordinating with FDA on press documents, conducting interviews with major media, and sending out notices on Thursday September 14 to the public health community via the Health Alert Network (HAN) and the Epidemic Information Exchange (Epi-X). By the next morning, the news media warned the U.S. population not to eat bagged spinach, with remarkable coverage.\n\nOn September 14, 2006, the FDA warned consumers about an \"E. coli\" outbreak that was tied to bags of fresh spinach. The FDA reported that they received complaints from 19 states in the United States. The FDA advised \"that consumers not eat bagged fresh spinach.\" Three days later, their updated warning said not to eat \"fresh spinach or fresh spinach-containing products.\"\nOn September 17, the United States expanded the warning to avoid all fresh spinach. The Centers for Disease Control issued an official \"Health Alert\", the highest category of alert message, on September 14 and started to investigate the \"E. coli\" outbreak. Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle formally requested federal aid on September 15. His office said the CDC will help assess the causes and the magnitude of the outbreak in his state.\n\nOn September 17, just three days after the initial warning, the FDA issued an updated warning stating that the public should \"not eat fresh spinach or fresh spinach containing products.\"\n\nOn September 18, Illinois and Nebraska reported their first cases of \"E. coli\" infection due to spinach, bringing the total number of affected states to 21. Ohio public health officials are investigating a 2-year-old's death that may also be linked.\n\nBy September 18, the number of people sickened by the \"E. coli\" laced fresh spinach reached 111.\n\nOn September 19, it was reported that there may be a link to a further death in Ohio and irrigation water is being investigated as a possible source.\n\nThis is the 9th outbreak traced to the Salinas Valley in California and the 25th leafy green \"E. coli\" outbreak (spinach or lettuce) in the United States since 1993.\n\nOn September 20, the CDC announced that the genetic fingerprint, a PFGE pattern, of \"E. coli\" O157 isolated from an opened package of \"Dole Baby Spinach, Best if Used by August 30\" packed by Natural Selection in the refrigerator of an ill New Mexico resident matched that of the outbreak strain.\nOn September 25, consumer advocates and lawmakers began urging tougher rules for fields and processing plants.\n\nOn September 27, a Pittsford woman filed a lawsuit concerning this matter, stating that the tainted spinach has made her ill. See Pittsford Woman Files Tainted Spinach Lawsuit. This source also stated that additional lawsuits were being filed nationwide.\n\nOn September 29, the FDA downgraded the warning, now only warning against specific brands packaged on specific dates, instead of just fresh spinach in general.\n\nOn October 5, 2006, the FBI has launched a criminal investigation into this matter.\n\nOn October 9, 2006, a popular brand of lettuce grown in California's Salinas Valley, the region at the center of the nationwide spinach scare has been recalled over concerns about \"E. coli\" contamination.\n\nOn October 26, 2006, some of the largest grocery chains, including Vons, Albertsons, Ralphs and others, sent a letter to the farmer's associations, giving them 6 weeks to come up with a plan to prevent problems like the E. coli breakout from happening again.\n\nThe overall toll of the spinach incident was 199 people in 28 states being infected, resulting in 141 hospitalizations, 31 people having kidney failure, and three deaths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22012061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22012061", "title": "AIDS Vaccine Bike Trek", "text": "AIDS Vaccine Bike Trek\n\nThe annual Charity Treks AIDS Vaccine Bike Trek is a 430-mile, charity bike ride through several states in the mountains and countryside of New England. The ride raises critical funds for research at the Emory Vaccine Center and the UCLA AIDS Institute, two of the world's leading AIDS vaccine research centers working to find an HIV vaccine.\n\nThe ride has taken place the second week of August each year since 2002. Up to 100 cyclists and numerous volunteers complete the ride each year. Cyclists and Crew members camp nightly in Parks and Campgrounds along the route, with daily mileage ranging between 60 and 115 miles. The route has varied over the years but has always traversed northern New England. In 2012, the route started in Burlington, Vermont and ended in Portland, Maine after five days. Riders are strongly encouraged to participate in all five days, even if they do not ride every mile.\n\nMany have described this event as life changing. Apart from the basic mission to raise awareness and funding for AIDS vaccine research, a secondary effect is to bring people together in a common goal of hope and inclusion. Participants have included medical professionals, firefighters, tradesmen, engineers, students, retired school teachers and virtually every other occupation. They have come from all corners of the United States, Canada and Europe. Though the ride is physically challenging, the group includes well trained cyclists and those that have barely ridden across their home towns prior to training. In sharing the challenges of several days of hard physical output, the ride blends this diverse set of people into a\nsort of supportive family. Each member might come for a different reason; some in honor of a loved one affected by HIV, others simply to enjoy the challenge of several days on the bike. But whatever the motivation, most describe the ride as both emotionally and physically rewarding.\n\nHistorically, none of the Charity Treks rides have imposed a fundraising minimum, though a $500 minimum is recommended. Riders pay a nominal registration fee ($250 in 2012) to cover the costs of most meals, gear transportation and insurance. Riders must cover their own travel costs and bring their own tents, if camping. Most riders and crew camp as a group in well equipped campgrounds with showers and flushing toilets. Several of the campgrounds have nice amenities such as swimming pools or lakes. Another option is to stay in hotels reasonably close to the stage end points, though they face potential good natured ribbing as taking the \"princess tour\". Riders must cover the cost of this option. In the event of torrential rain, those on Princess tour could suddenly find themselves popular among the camping crowd.\n\nCharity Treks, Inc has organized several AIDS Vaccine Bike Treks in North America:\n\nCharity Treks was formed in 2002 by a group of cyclists who had participated in the 2001 Montreal to Maine AIDS Vaccine Bike Trek, one of the last AIDSRides produced by Pallotta Teamworks. The original event was organized by Palotta TeamWorks but was cancelled in 2002 due to funding issues. A group of riders continued to do the ride that year despite the lack of organizational structure.\n\nThe riders and volunteers were committed to the cause of raising the public awareness about AIDS, and felt compelled to not let this be a one-time event. As a result, a number or riders and volunteers gathered together to form a volunteer organization whose purpose is to forward the cause of AIDS awareness and raise funds for vital research in the development of a vaccine. 100% of funds raised are donated to the two charitable beneficiaries; Emory Vaccine Center and UCLA AIDS Institute\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23818617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23818617", "title": "Abortion in China", "text": "Abortion in China\n\nAbortion in China is legal and is a government service available on request for women. In theory this does not apply to sex-selective abortion, although this remains the basis for some women's requests. In addition to virtually universal access to contraception, abortion was a common way for China to contain its population in accordance with its one-child policy, in existence from 1979 to 2015.\n\nIn the early 1950s, the Chinese government made abortion illegal save when 1) the mother had a preexisting condition, such as tuberculosis or pernicious anemia, that would cause the pregnancy to be a threat to the mother's life; 2) when traditional Chinese medicine could not settle an overactive fetus and spontaneous abortion was expected; and 3) when the mother had already undergone two or more Caesarean sections. Punishments were written into the law for those who received or performed illegal abortions.\n\nIn 1954 and 1956, the law was extended to include other pre-existing illnesses and disabilities, such as hypertension and epilepsy, as well as allowed women working in certain types of occupations to qualify. Women who had already had four children and became pregnant four months after giving birth to their last child also qualified for an abortion.\n\nThese restrictions were seen as the government's way of emphasizing the importance of population growth. \nThe scholar Nie Jing-Bao explains that these laws were relaxed in the late 1950s and early 1960s with the intent of reducing the number of deaths and lifelong injuries women sustained due to illegal abortions as well as serving as a form of population control when used in conjunction with birth control.\n\nExact statistics on the number of abortions performed annually are hard to come by as not all abortions are registered and Family Planning statistics are usually considered state secrets. However, in 2008, there were an estimated 13 million abortions performed, and approximately 10 million abortion pills sold. Induced abortions are more common in urban areas, where couples may only have one child. In rural areas, it is permissible to have a second child if the first born is a girl and a \"second-birth permit\" is granted, costing approximately 4,000 yuan (US$600). \nBy the 70s, abortion was officially termed a \"remedial measure\" for realising China's goals of controlling the population.\n\nThe exception to the otherwise general permissibility of abortion in China is that the practice of pre-natal sex determination and sex-selective abortions for non-medical reasons are illegal. It is argued that sex-selective abortion continues to be one of the key factors in the notably imbalanced sex-ratio in China, as the imbalance cannot be explained solely by the underreporting of female births or by excess female infant mortality. In 2001, 117 boys were born to every 100 girls. These trends are explained by the persistence of a preference for sons in Chinese families.\n\nIn 2005, the government began an Action Plan consisting of ten policies with the aim of normalising the sex ratio of newborns by 2010. Under this plan, sex-selective abortion was outlawed, as was prenatal sex diagnosis, and harsher punishments were implemented for violating both. Other policies include controlling the marketing of ultrasonic B machines and improving the systems used by medical and Family Planning organisations to report on births, abortions and pregnancies.\n\nDespite this, sex-selective abortion continues to be practiced, as it is not easily regulated by governments and because son-preference persists. Moreover, in many cases the couple can pay, or will try to pay, to be told the sex of their child while having an ultrasound.\n\nThe importance of abortions as a family planning tool is evident through the extensive implementation of medical abortions (abortion induced by pills, which can be performed in early pregnancy) in China. In fact, such abortions were legalized in China in 1988, earlier than any other place and are already produced in a large scale in China for many years. It is unclear whether the efficiency of the procedure reaches the high success rates it has in many western countries, but it is highly promoted by Chinese doctors and much less invasive than regular abortions.\n\n"}
{"id": "30762143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30762143", "title": "Alfonso Ortiz Tirado", "text": "Alfonso Ortiz Tirado\n\nAlfonso Ortiz Tirado was an opera singer and medical doctor born in Álamos, Sonora, Mexico. His musical talent was apparent early in life, but he studied at the Escuela Nacional Preparatoria and university to become a doctor. He specialized in gynecology as well as general medicine, and eventually became the personal physician of Frida Kahlo and performed surgery on Agustín Lara. As a musician, he studied under José Pierson and soon afterward had a successful international career as an opera singer, earning the label of “tenor of the Americas.” He was often cast for productions of L'elisir d'amore and Madame Butterfly. He earned a large sum of money doing this, and used it to establish a children’s hospital in Mexico City. Ortiz died in 1960, and was interred at the Panteón Frances de la Piedad. The Festival de Canto Operístico Tirado in the state of Sonora was named after him.\n"}
{"id": "33220780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33220780", "title": "Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology", "text": "Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology\n\nThe Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology is a national clinical trials network sponsored by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) that consists of about 10,000 cancer specialists at hospitals, medical centers, and community clinics across the United States and Canada. The Alliance develops and conducts clinical trials with promising new cancer therapies, and utilizes scientific research to develop treatment and prevention strategies for cancer, as well as researching methods to alleviate side effects of cancer and cancer treatments.\n\nThe Alliance seeks to reduce the impact of cancer on people by uniting a broad community of scientists and clinicians from many disciplines, committed to discovering, validating and disseminating effective strategies for the prevention and treatment of cancer. The Alliance conducts trials in the following disease and modality areas: breast, gastrointestinal (GI), genitourinary (GU), leukemia, lymphoma, myeloma, neuro-oncology, respiratory, experimental therapeutics (rare cancers), cancer control and transplant.\n\nThe Alliance was formed by the merger of three legacy clinical trials groups: the \"American College of Surgeons Oncology Group\" (ACOSOG), the \"Cancer and Leukemia Group B\" (CALGB), and the \"North Central Cancer Treatment Group\" (NCCTG). The merger was completed in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "3076858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076858", "title": "Autistic enterocolitis", "text": "Autistic enterocolitis\n\nAutistic enterocolitis is the name of a nonexistent medical condition proposed by discredited British gastroenterologist Andrew Wakefield when he suggested a link between a number of common clinical symptoms and signs which he contended were distinctive to autism. The existence of such an enterocolitis has been dismissed by experts as having \"not been established\". Wakefield's now-retracted and fraudulent report used inadequate controls and suppressed negative findings, and multiple attempts to replicate his results have been unsuccessful.\n\nReviews in the medical literature have found no link between the MMR vaccine and autism or bowel disease.\n\nMost of Wakefield's coauthors later retracted the conclusions of the original paper proposing the hypothesis, and the General Medical Council found Wakefield guilty of manipulating patient data and misreporting results. His work has been exposed as falsified and described as an \"elaborate fraud\".\n\nUntil the 1970s, autism was rarely accepted to be a distinctive diagnosis, but, following changes to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association it is diagnosed much more often. How much of this increase is due to greater diagnostic vigilance by doctors, changes in diagnostic categories, or an actual increase in prevalence, remains unclear. Late-onset autism cases are estimated at 25% and reported by sources including the \"British Medical Journal\" as not having changed in recent years.\n\nDespite others describing common bowel features, there have been no peer reviewed studies yet published, as of 2006, corroborating the existence of \"autistic enterocolitis\"; other studies have explicitly refuted its existence. Thus, it is not generally accepted that the types of colitis diagnosed in autistic individuals are either unique to autism, or more common in autistic people than in the general population.\n\nWhen Wakefield and his colleagues first reported in 1998 a possible association between autistic regression, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and MMR vaccines in the \"Lancet\", they evaluated a dozen children with pervasive developmental disorders, apparent developmental regression, and intestinal symptoms, referred to the Royal Free Hospital.\n\nAccording to parents, onset of behavioral symptoms was linked to recent (within two weeks) immunization with MMR vaccine in eight of the children diagnosed with developmental disorders. The most consistent report was lymphoid nodular hyperplasia of the terminal ileum in nine of the children. This feature has also been reported to be very common in non-autistic children. A variety of colonic and rectal mucosal features were reported in eight cases. Biopsies of the ileum were reported to have shown reactive lymphoid follicular hyperplasia in seven. Biopsies of the colon were reported to have shown a diffuse mononuclear cell infiltrate in six.\n\nWakefield and his colleagues said they described features of regressive autism with bowel disorders, or what Wakefield would later call \"autistic enterocolitis\", although these findings have been questioned, with claims that the association of features is substantially an artifact of preselection of vaccinated children with both developmental disorders and bowel symptoms for a UK lawsuit:\n\nIn an April 2010 investigation into the origins of claims for \"autistic enterocolitis\", reporter Brian Deer revealed in the BMJ that the original pathology results on the children in the study (obtained from the Royal Free hospital) had been subjected to wholesale changes, from normal to abnormal, in the medical school. On 2 January 2011, Deer provided two tables comparing the data on the twelve children, showing the original hospital data and the data with the wholesale changes as used in the 1998 \"Lancet\" article.\n\nA 2011 article in the British Medical Journal described how the data in the study had been falsified by Wakefield so it would arrive at a predetermined conclusion. An accompanying editorial in the same journal described Wakefield's work as an \"elaborate fraud\" which led to lower vaccination rates, putting hundreds of thousands of children at risk and diverting energy and money away from research into the true cause of autism.\n\nWakefield has hypothesized that \"autistic enterocolitis\" is an emergent IBD phenotype that follows from exposure to the vaccinations given to children during a period when their immune systems are rapidly developing. Other research, however, rejects this hypothesis, and other groups have not reproduced Wakefield's findings. Researchers have identified a high incidence of bowel symptoms in autistic children before the MMR vaccine was licensed. It was also revealed that, prior to the publication of Wakefield's studies alleging a connection between the MMR vaccine and autistic enterocolitis, he had received over £400,000 from lawyers attempting to sue vaccine manufacturers. This conflict of interest, which Wakefield denies, has led many to criticize Wakefield and his results. The British General Medical Council has launched an inquiry into possible dishonesty by Wakefield regarding his research. In 2011, an article was published in the British Medical Journal which referred to Wakefield's 1998 paper as an \"elaborate fraud.\"\n\nThe \"Lancet\" paper has been widely cited as an impetus for concerns regarding the MMR vaccine being a cause of autism. Wakefield gave interviews after the publication of the paper, including on \"60 Minutes\" where he raised concerns regarding administration of the MMR vaccine. In the \"Lancet\" paper, Wakefield and his co-authors said on the issue:\n\nThis paper was partially retracted in 2004, then fully retracted in 2010.\n\nIn 2004, 10 of the 12 authors issued a statement in the \"Lancet\" entitled \"Retraction of an interpretation\". In this, the authors retracted the conclusion section of the paper, formally known in the Lancet and in many biomedical journals, as the \"interpretation\". The section of the paper retracted said:\n\nIn the retraction, issued in March 2004, they said:\n\nThe authors also said:\n\nThe authors stated that they were unable to contact one of the two remaining original authors, John Linnell.\n\nJust before the retraction, criticism arose over the fact that the Royal Free Hospital had received £55,000 in August 1996 from lawyers preparing to sue MMR manufacturers for support of Wakefield's research. Wakefield asserted that the donation was to fund a second clinical study; some of the children involved were subjects in both studies. However, it was subsequently revealed by \"The Sunday Times\" of London that Wakefield had personally been paid more than £400,000.\n\nWakefield, who did not sign the retraction, currently faces disciplinary charges before the General Medical Council over the conduct of this research. In February 2009 \"The Sunday Times\" reported that Wakefield had manipulated patient data and misreported results in his 1998 paper, creating the appearance of a link with autism.\n\nIn response to the GMC investigation and findings, the editors of \"The Lancet\" announced on 2 February 2010 that they \"fully retract this paper from the published record.\"\n\nIn February 2012, the Cochrane Library published its analysis of dozens of \"high quality\" medical studies which concluded no link could be found between the MMR vaccine and bowel disease, autism or other pervasive developmental disorders. To increase the rigor of the meta-analysis, the criteria of the meta-analysis excluded smaller studies and studies that had the potential for bias. Wakefield's work was specifically excluded in the meta-analysis due to small sample size. With regard to the vaccine, Cochrane said that its survey of research \"strongly supports its use\".\n\nOn February 12, 2009, three Special Masters of the United States Court of Federal Claims rendered three opinions in three \"test cases\" that were proceeding in that court, each of which addressed causation issues relating to MMR vaccine and autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). The opinions were critical of Arthur Krigsman and his testimony about autistic enterocolitis, which the court said that he described as a \"new form of gastrointestinal [GI] disorder.\" Typical of their criticism was the following passage found at page 199 of the opinion in the Snyder case: \"Doctor Krigsman was qualified to testify about gastroenterology [but his] qualifications to establish the validity of a new form of gastrointestinal disorder, unrecognized by other authorities in the field, were ... sadly lacking.\" The court noted that the \"medical textbooks\" do not recognize autistic enterocolitis. At page 27, the same opinion stated that \"Dr. Krigsman’s testimony about autistic enterocolitis as a diagnostic entity was speculative.\"\n\nIn his judgment in Cedillo v Secretary for Health and Human Services, February 12, 2009, Special Master George Hastings said:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1009369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1009369", "title": "Boccia", "text": "Boccia\n\nBoccia ( ) is a precision ball sport, similar to bocce, and related to bowls and pétanque. The name \"boccia\" is derived from the Latin word for \"boss\" – \"\". The sport is contested at local, national and international levels, by athletes with severe physical disabilities. It was originally designed to be played by people with cerebral palsy but now includes athletes with other severe disabilities affecting motor skills. In 1984, it became a Paralympic sport, and in 2008 was being practised in over fifty countries worldwide. Boccia is governed by the Boccia International Sports Federation (BISFed) and is one of only two Paralympic sports (along with goalball) that have no counterpart in the Olympic program.\n\nBoccia can be played by individuals, pairs, or teams of three. All events are mixed gender. The aim of the game is to throw leather balls — coloured red or blue (which side uses which is determined by a coin toss) as close as they can to a white target ball, or jack. The jack is thrown first, then the first two regular balls are played (first, the player who threw the jack then the opposing side), after which the side furthest away from the jack goes next in an attempt to either get closer to the jack or knock the opposition's ball out of the way. In this fashion, each end will continue until one side has played all their balls, at which point, the opposing side will play their remaining balls. The balls can be moved with hands, feet, or, if the competitor's disability is severe, with an assistive device such as a ramp. At the end of each round, or end, the referee measures the distance of the balls closest to the jack, and awards points accordingly — one point for each ball that is closer to the jack than the opponent's closest ball. The team/player with the highest number of points at the end of play is the winner. If both teams have the same number of points after all ends have been played, one additional end is played to determine a winner.\n\nThe number of ends and balls in each end depends on the side makeup. Individual competition consists of four ends and six balls per player per end, whilst paired competition is four ends and six balls per pair per end (three per player). Team competition is six ends, and six balls per team per end (two per player).\n\nIn pair and team events, a reserve player is allowed. Between ends a reserve can be substituted for a player during a game, but only one substitution per game is permitted.\n\nBoccia is played on a court measuring 12.5 × 6 m with 2 m of empty space around it. The surface of the court is flat and smooth. The throwing area is divided into six rectangular throwing boxes in which the athletes must stay completely within during play. On the court is a V-shaped line over which the jack must cross for the throw to be valid. At the end of the court is the ‘dead ball container’ in which balls are put if they are thrown outside the time limit, out of the area of play or if the athlete violates a rule during his or her throw. A cross marks the position where the jack must be placed if it touches or crosses the boundary line or in the case of a tie-break. The balls themselves are made of leather and are slightly larger than a tennis ball, weighing approximately 275 grams and measuring 270 mm in circumference. They are available in different grades of softness and hardness.\n\nTo be eligible to compete in boccia at national or international level, athletes must have a disability and be in a wheelchair, as a result of cerebral palsy, or another neurological condition that has similar effects, such as muscular dystrophy or traumatic brain injury. Players are examined to determine the extent of their disability and then assigned to a sport class, designed to allow them to compete against other athletes with a similar level of physical function.\n\nBoccia players are assigned to one of four sport classes, depending on their functional ability:\n\nBoccia can be played on a recreational and/or competitive basis. Competitions are organized locally, regionally, nationally, and internationally. The international competition calendar is based on the Summer Paralympic Games quadrennial, with international regional championships in the first year, world championships in the second year, world cup in the third year, and the Paralympic games in the fourth year.\n\nThere are approximately 350 internationally ranked boccia players.\n\n179 athletes from 24 countries and regions attended the 2007 Boccia World Cup during May 9–19, 2007 in Vancouver, BC, Canada for their last opportunity for classification and achieve international ranking for the 2008 Summer Paralympics in Beijing.\n\n88 athletes from 19 countries competed at the 2008 Summer Paralympics in Beijing held 7 to 17 September. Brazil and Korea were ranked first equal over all, both countries finishing with two gold medals and one bronze medal each.\n\nAthletes from 36 countries attended the 2010 Boccia World Championships, and 28 countries participated in the team competition. The balance of power in recent years has shifted from European dominance to a more worldwide competitiveness with Brazil leading the BC4s and Korea the BC3s. The dominant force of the Mixed Team has only recently changed hands from GB to Korea but the former power houses Spain and Portugal can never be ruled out.\n\n"}
{"id": "2175666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2175666", "title": "California Mental Health Services Act", "text": "California Mental Health Services Act\n\nOn November 2004, voters in the U.S. state of California passed Proposition 63, the Mental Health Services Act (MHSA), which has been designed to expand and transform California’s county mental health service systems. The MHSA is funded by imposing an additional one percent tax on individual, but not corporate, taxable income in excess of one million dollars. In becoming law on January 2005, the MHSA represents the latest in a Californian legislative movement, begun in the 1990s, to provide better coordinated and more comprehensive care to those with serious mental illness, particularly in underserved populations. Its claim of successes thus far, such as with the development of innovative and integrated Full Service Partnerships (FSPs), are not without detractors who highlight many problems but especially a lack of oversight, large amount of unspent funds, poor transparency, lack of engagement in some communities, and a lack of adherence to required reporting as challenges MHSA implementation must overcome to fulfill the law's widely touted potential.\n\nAt one time, California was known for having a strong mental health system. Treatment was available for Medi-Cal recipients with few limitations on care. Legislators and voters have acknowledged the inadequacy of California's historically underfunded mental health system to care for the state's residents, especially those with serious mental illness, over the past few decades. In 1991, to build a more community- and county-based system of care, the California legislature instituted realignment, a delegation of the control over mental health funds and care delivery from state to county. This was followed by a succession of legislation targeted towards marginalized populations with high documented rates of mental illness, such as the homeless (AB 2034, in 1999) and the potentially violent mentally ill (Laura's Law, in 2002).\nHowever, with the passage of Proposition 63 in 2004, California voters acted upon a widespread perception that state and county mental health systems were still in disrepair, underfunded, and requiring a systematic, organizational overhaul. This perception echoed a nationwide perspective, with the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health in 2003 calling for fundamental transformation of the historically fragmented mental health system. The MHSA is California's attempt to lead the way in accomplishing such systemic reform.\n\nIn the end, voter consciences were pricked by the well-organized and -funded campaign that displayed both the need (50,000 mentally ill homeless people, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness) and the promise (successes of past mental health initiatives) of increased funding for the mental health system. Then-Assemblyman Darrell Steinberg and Rusty Selix, executive director of the Mental Health Association in California, led the initiative by collecting at minimum 373,816 signatures, along with financial ($4.3 million) and vocal support from stakeholders. Though Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and the business community were opposed to Proposition 63 because of the tax it would impose on millionaires, the opposition raised only $17,500. On November 2, 2004, Proposition 63 passed with 53.8% of the vote, with 6,183,119 voting for and 5,330,052 voting against the bill.\n\nThe voter-approved MHSA initiative provides for developing, through an extensive stakeholder process, a comprehensive approach to providing community based mental health services and supports for California residents. Approximately 51,000 taxpayers in California will be helping to fund the MHSA through an estimated $750 million in tax revenue during fiscal year 2005-06.\n\nThe MHSA was an unprecedented piece of legislation in California for several reasons:\n\nTo accomplish its objectives, the MHSA applies a specific portion of its funds to each of six system-building components:\n\nNotably, none of the funds were to be used for programs with existing fund allocations, unless it was for a new element or expansion in those existing programs. 51% of the funds have to be spent on children's service\n\nThe MHSA stipulates that the California State Department of Mental Health (DMH) will contract with county mental health departments (plus two cities) to develop and manage the implementation of its provisions. Oversight responsibility for MHSA implementation was handed over to the sixteen member Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission (MHSOAC) on July 7, 2005, when the commission first met.\n\nThe MHSA specifies requirements for service delivery and supports for children, youths, adults and older adults with serious emotional disturbances and/or severe mental illnesses. MHSA funding will be made annually to counties to:\n\nStarting from enactment, implementation of the MHSA was intended to take six months; in reality, the process of obtaining stakeholder input for administrative rules extended this period by several months. By August 2005, 12 meetings and 13 conference calls involving stakeholders across the state resulted in the final draft of rules by which counties would submit their three-year plans for approval.\n\nCounties are required to develop their own three-year plan, consistent with the requirements outlined in the act, in order to receive funding under the MHSA. Counties are obliged to collaborate with citizens and stakeholders to develop plans that will accomplish desired results through the meaningful use of time and capabilities, including things such as employment, vocational training, education, and social and community activities. Also required will be annual updates by the counties, along with a public review process. County proposals will be evaluated for their contribution to achieving the following goals:\n\nMHSA specifies three stages of local funding, to fulfill initial plans, three year plans, and long term strategies. No services would be funded in the first year of implementation. The DMH approved the first county plan in January 2006. Allocations for each category of funding were planned to be granted annually, based upon detailed plans with prior approval. However, an amendment to the MHSA, AB 100, which passed in March 2011, serves to streamline the DMH approval and feedback process to the counties, ostensibly to relieve the DMH of some of its administrative burden.\n\nWhile the county mental health departments are involved in the actual implementation of MHSA programs, the MHSA mandates that several entities support or oversee the counties. These include the State Department of Mental Health (DMH) and the Mental Health Services Oversight and Accountability Commission (MHSOAC).\n\nIn accordance with realignment, the DMH approves county three-year implementation plans, upon comment from the MHSOAC, and passes programmatic responsibilities to the counties. In the first few months immediately following its passage, the DMH has:\n\nThe DMH has directed all counties to develop plans incorporating five essential concepts:\n\nThe DMH, in assuming and asserting its primacy over MHSA implementation, has dictated requirements for service delivery and supports as follows:\n\nThe authors of the MHSA created the MHSOAC to reflect the consumer-oriented focus of the law, mandating at least two appointees with severe mental illness, two other family members of individuals with severe mental illness, and various other community representatives. This diverse commission holds the responsibility of approving county implementation plans, helping develop mental illness stigma-relieving strategies, and recommending service delivery improvements to the state on an as-needed basis. Whenever the commission identifies a critical issue related to the performance of a county mental health program, it may refer the issue to the DMH.\n\nThe first meeting of the MHSOAC was held July 7, 2005, at which time Proposition 63 author Darrell Steinberg was selected unanimously by fellow commissioners as chairman, without comment or discussion. After accepting the gavel, Steinberg was roundly praised for devising Proposition 63's 'creative financing' scheme. Steinberg then said, \"We must focus on the big picture,\" and stated his priorities with regard to the implementation of the MHSA:\n\nIn accordance with MHSA requirements, the Commission shall consist of 16 voting members as follows:\n\n\nThe initial government officials and designee appointed:\n\n\nOn June 21, 2005, Governor Schwarzenegger announced his appointment of twelve appointees to the MHSOAC:\n\n\nOne unqualified success story from the MHSA thus far involves the implementation of Full Service Partnerships (FSPs) demonstrating the \"whatever it takes\" commitment to assist in individualized recovery - whether it is housing, \"integrated services, flexible funding [such as for childcare], intensive case management, [or] 24 h access to care.\" FSP interventions are based upon evidence from such programs as Assertive community treatment (ACT), which has effectively reduced homelessness and hospitalizations while bettering outcomes. But the FSP model looks more like that of the also-popular MHA Village in Long Beach, which is a center that offers more comprehensive services besides those specifically mental health-related. Beyond these guiding principles, however, there has not been much consensus over unifying strategies to define and implement an FSP - resulting in varying FSP structures across counties.\n\nOverall, though, the Petris Center, funded by the DMH and California HealthCare Foundation to evaluate the MHSA, has reported quantifiable improvements in many areas:\n\nAccording to the UCLA Center for Health Policy Research, the 2007 and 2009 California Health Interview Surveys (CHIS) demonstrate continued mental health needs of almost two million Californians, about half of which were unmet in 2011. In spite of steady tax revenue ($7.4 billion raised as of September 2011) earmarked for the MHSA, the unremittingly high numbers of mentally ill who lack treatment contrast starkly with the implementation of new programs like the FSPs, which may cost tens of thousands of dollars annually per person. The MHA Village program, for example, averages around $18,000 annually per person. One of the major growing concerns regarding MHSA implementation is its unintentional but worrying tendency to create silos of care. As directed by the DMH, counties search for \"unserved\" mentally ill or at-risk individuals to enroll in their new programs, while keeping existing and perhaps underserved clients in old programs that are usually underfunded, but cannot take MHSA funds. Ironically, while the MHSA was established in part to address racial/ethnic disparities in health care, it may be perpetuating the disparity in services delivery between underfunded and well-funded, new programs.\n\nA possible solution to this issue highlights another challenge for the MHSA: the need for more comprehensive evaluation, oversight, and advisory mechanisms. Though there is an accountability commission, the MHSOAC, its oversight and regulatory responsibilities are not well-defined. However, it is a relatively new entity, having been created by the MHSA in 2004, and has yet to fully delineate its role in the MHSA. With time, the MHSOAC will hopefully continue to develop towards its stated function. Objective and expert evaluation of the MHSA will also be necessary to achieve the kind of longstanding system-wide improvement that then becomes a model for others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2905654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905654", "title": "College of Family Physicians of Canada", "text": "College of Family Physicians of Canada\n\nThe College of Family Physicians of Canada' (CFPC; French: \"Le Collège des médecins de famille du Canada\", CFPC), which is based in Mississauga, Ontario, is a professional association and the legal certifying body for the practice of family medicine in Canada. This national organization of family physicians was founded in 1954, incorporated in 1968, and currently numbers over 32,000 members. Members of the CFPC belong to the national College as well as to their provincial chapters. The CFPC uses both English and French as official languages.\n\nThe CFPC establishes the standards for the training, certification, and lifelong education of family physicians. It accredits postgraduate family medicine training in Canada's medical schools, conducts the certification examination in family medicine, and grants the certification (CCFP) and fellowship (FCFP) designations.\n\nThe CFPC is a member of the World Organization of Family Doctors.\n\nThe CFPC was founded in 1954 in Vancouver, British Columbia, as the \"College of General Practice of Canada\" out of a need to ensure family physicians were dedicated to continuing medical education. At inception, it had 400 members, and Victor L. Johnston was the first executive director and remained in office for ten years. The first executive committee and board of representatives consisted of 17 members. In 1964, the College obtained its current name, \"The College of Family Physicians of Canada.\"\n\nThe CFPC is governed by members of the executive committee and the board. The current executive director and chief executive officer is Dr.Francine Lemire.\n\nIn 2013, the CFPC collaborated with the Medical Council of Canada (MCC) to deliver a new \"harmonized\" certification examination in family medicine. Those who passed the new exam and met all other qualifications of both organizations were awarded both the Licentiate of the MCC (LMCC; the medical license to practise in Canada) and the certification in family medicine designation (CCFP).\n\nUpon review of the harmonized exam, the CFPC determined that the Certification Examination in Family Medicine did not result in the anticipated benefits for the Certification decision. For this reason, starting in 2016 the exams were again run as two separate examinations, as they were before 2013.\n\nThe CFPC runs a program designed to support the continuous professional development of its members called Mainpro+ (Maintenance of Proficiency). This program assesses proposed learning modules and seminars against established standards and awards various types and numbers of credits that physicians can earn by participating in these learning opportunities. Credits are recorded and physicians must meet a standard number and type of credits in order to maintain their certification (CCFP) and fellowship (FCFP) designations.\n\nThe CFPC's official monthly journal is \"Canadian Family Physician\".\n\nFamily physicians have the possibility of accumulating MAINPRO credits by \"performing brief reflective exercises after reading eligible articles in the journal,\" thereby contributing to the spread of family medicine stories and experience across the country to the various readers of \"CFP\".\n\nEach year, the CFPC hosts the Family Medicine Forum (FMF), a national family medicine conference. The conference offers hundreds of clinical and professional development sessions for family physicians over three days in November. The conference is held at varying host cities and provinces each year. The 2016 FMF will be held in Vancouver, BC.\n\nThe Research and Education Foundation of the CFPC was established to provide funding for honours, awards, scholarships, and grants bestowed by the organization to its members. It is a registered charity with the Government of Canada.\n\nIn collaboration with the Canadian Medical Association's Forum on General and Family Practice Issues, CFPC released a list of \"Eleven Things Physicians and Patients Should Question\" as part of the Choosing Wisely Canada campaign (recommendations 1-5 were released April 2, 2014 and recommendations 6-11 were released October 29, 2014). Canadian specific family medicine recommendations include:\n\n1. Don't image patients for lower-back pain unless the patient is presenting with red flags.\n\n2. Don't use antibiotics for patients who have upper respiratory infections that are likely viral in origin, such as influenza-like illness, or self-limiting, such as sinus infections that lasts less than seven days.\n\n3. Don't order screening chest X-rays and electrocardiograms (ECGs) for patients who are asymptomatic or low risk.\n\n4. Don't screen women with Pap smears if they are under 21 years of age or over 69 years of age.\n\n5. Don't do annual screening blood tests for patients unless they are directly indicated by the risk patient's risk profile.\n\n6. Don't routinely measure Vitamin D in adults who are low risk.\n\n7. Don't do screening mammography for low-risk women aged 40–49.\n\n8. Don't do annual physical exams on asymptomatic adults who have no significant risk factors.\n\n9. Don't order DEXA (Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry) screening for osteoporosis on patients who are low-risk.\n\n10. Don't advise patients with diabetes who do not require insulin to routinely self-monitor blood sugars between office visits.\n\n11. Don't order thyroid function tests in patients who are asymptomatic.\n\nThe CFPC recognizes several enhanced skills programs that generally last between three and twelve months. These advanced programs are accessible to practicing family physicians as well as Canadian medical residents who are completing their second year of residency in family medicine. In some cases, the enhanced skills program counts as a third year of residency. The following are some existing enhanced skills programs:\n\nSeveral medical schools in Canada have student interest groups in family medicine, as well as other medical specialties. These student interest groups often organize activities that allow fellow medical students to explore some facets of the medical specialty.\n\nIn September 2014, for example, the family medicine student interest group at McGill University hosted the 6th family medicine student symposium. While the conferences took place in the McIntyre Medical Sciences Building, the workshops led by practicing medical doctors and medical residents in family medicine took place in McGill's medical simulation center near the downtown campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "13872332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13872332", "title": "Core stability", "text": "Core stability\n\nCore stability refers to a person's ability to stabilize their core. Stability, in this context, should be considered as an ability to control the position and movement of the core. Thus, if a person has greater core stability, they have a greater level of control over the position and movement of this area of their body. The body's core is frequently involved in aiding other movements of the body, such as the limbs, and it is considered that by improving core stability a person's ability to perform these other movements may also be improved i.e. core stability training may help improve someone's running ability. The body's core region is sometimes referred to as the torso or the trunk, although there are some differences in the muscles identified as constituting them. The major muscles involved in core stability include the pelvic floor muscles, transversus abdominis, multifidus, internal and external obliques, rectus abdominis, erector spinae (sacrospinalis) especially the longissimus thoracis, and the diaphragm. The minor muscles involved include the latissimus dorsi, gluteus maximus, and trapezius. Notably, breathing, including the action of the diaphragm, can significantly influence the posture and movement of the core; this is especially apparent in regard to extreme ranges of inhalation and exhalation. On this basis, how a person is breathing may influence their ability to control their core. \n\nSome researchers have argued that the generation of intra-abdominal pressure, caused by the activation of the core muscles and especially the transversus abdominis, may serve to lend support to the lumbar spine. One way in which intra-abdominal pressure can be increased is by the adoption of a deeper breathing pattern. In this case, and as considered by Hans Lindgren, 'The diaphragm [...] performs its breathing function at a lower position to facilitate a higher IAP.' Thus, the adoption of a deeper breathing pattern may improve core stability.\n\nTypically, the core is associated with the body's center of gravity, which is over the region of the second sacral vertebrae groups and stability is associated with isometric or static strength. In addition, it is the lumbar spine that is primarily responsible for posture and stability thus providing the strength needed for the stability especially utilized in dynamic sports.\n\nWhenever a person moves, to lift something or simply to move from one position to another, the core region is tensed first. This tension is usually made unconsciously and in conjunction with a change in breathing pattern. An example to try is to sit in a chair and to reach forward over a table to pick up a cup. This movement is first accompanied by a tension in the core region of the abdomen and can be felt by placing one hand on the abdomen as the movement is made.\n\nAs the load increases the key muscles contract around the viscera, which are in-compressible, to form a stable ball-like core region against which the forces are balanced in coordination with posture.\n\nIt is commonly believed that core stability is essential for the maintenance of an upright posture and especially for movements and lifts that require extra effort such as lifting a heavy weight from the ground to a table. Without core stability the lower back is not supported from inside and can be injured by strain caused by the exercise. It is also believed that insufficient core stability can result in lower back pain and lower limb injuries..\n\nThere is little support in research for the core stability model and many of the benefits attributed to this method of exercise have not been demonstrated. At best core stability training has the same benefits as general, non-specific exercise (see review by Lederman 09) and walking. Trunk or core specific exercise have failed to demonstrate preventative benefits against injuries in sports or to improve sports performance.\n\nTraining methods for developing and maintaining core stability include:\n\nThe cervical, thoracic and lumbar spine is composed of a total of 24 presacral vertebrae and their main functions are to protect the spinal cord, provide an attachment site for many muscles of the body. They also function by distributing one's bodyweight when standing upright. Many injuries to the spine occur as a result of vehicle accidents, falling, and sports and recreation. While it is impossible to prevent such events from happening, increasing intra-abdominal pressure and strengthening the musculature in the back, along with keeping a neutral spine, can minimize injuries like hernias, strains, and sprains.\n\nThe correlation between having a significant amount of core strength and spinal health has been well documented by many studies in the past. Some of these studies were able to quantify the effects that antagonizing abdominal muscle had on stabilizing the lumbar spine by increasing the amount of intra-abdominal pressure in order to maintain a straight lumbar spine and to avoid rounding during physical activities and using simple techniques such as the “Valsalva maneuver”. A simple exercise used to strengthen the abdominals (rectus abdominis, internal/external obliques, and transverse abdominis) is using the isometric or “static” hold known as the plank.\n\nSimply by working to keep a neutral spine and remembering to increase intra-abdominal pressure before performing a movement that could compromise the spine, you are able to drastically decrease your risk for sustaining a back injury. If you were looking for ways to both strengthen and increase stability of the musculature of the spine one could perform various body weight exercises, for instance the bird dog exercise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23993684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23993684", "title": "Cuban fever", "text": "Cuban fever\n\nCuban fever (or calentura) was a popular name for a recurring form of tropical fever, sometimes accompanied by acute delirium. In 1898, a pathologist established that Cuban fever was a variety of malaria.\n\nThe term \"Cuban fever\" was coined by Nashville Doctor Alexander McCall in his 1845 letter to the \"Boston Medical and Surgical Journal\", describing a very protracted form of \"erysipelatous fever\" he had observed in Brazil, Cuba, and the Yucatan Peninsula. In 1860 social reformer and author Julia Ward Howe described a condition she observed in a Cuban prison as Cuban fever.\n\nThe phrase was revived in the Spanish–American War to refer to a fever prevalent in Cuba and the Philippines, that attacked many of the American troops during the War or shortly after their return. It generally began with a chill and a body temperature of . As the temperature rose higher, muscular pains began, with headache, loss of appetite, nausea, and marked weakness. Many patients spontaneously recovered within a week. However, the symptoms would often recur, sometimes daily, and sometimes at intervals of days or weeks. U.S. Army Major General William Rufus Shafter was repeatedly sidelined with Cuban fever after he returned home.\n\nIn an effort to establish a retrospective diagnosis, pathologist James Ewing of New York City studied blood samples of 800 patients suffering from the disease, and found that 80 percent of the cases of Cuban fever were of the aestiva-autumnal type of malarial fever, and the remaining 20 percent suffered from tertian malaria.\n\nAfter leading the \"Rough Riders\" of the 1st United States Volunteer Cavalry in the Spanish–American War, Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, like many of his troops, was diagnosed with Cuban fever. Although Roosevelt's doctors were treating it with drugs, the fever continued to recur long after he left the Army, before, during, and after his presidency. The second part of Edmund Morris's 2001 biography of Roosevelt explains that, when suffering the effects of the disease, the President was discovered outside of his cabin late at night, \"completely disoriented,\" pacing in the snow in his bare feet, holding his hunting dog Skip to his chest.\n"}
{"id": "651576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651576", "title": "Dishwashing", "text": "Dishwashing\n\nDishwashing or dish washing, also known as washing up is the process of cleaning cooking utensils, dishes, cutlery and other items to prevent foodborne illness. This is either achieved by hand in a sink using dishwashing detergent or by using dishwasher and may take place in a kitchen, utility room, scullery or elsewhere. In Britain to do the washing up also includes to dry and put away. There are cultural divisions over rinsing and drying after washing.\n\nDish washing is usually done using an implement for the washer to wield, unless done using an automated dishwasher. Commonly used implements include cloths, sponges, brushes or even steel wool. As fingernails are often more effective than soft implements like cloths at dislodging hard particles, washing simply with the hands is also done and can be effective as well. Dishwashing detergent is also generally used, but bar soap can be used acceptably, as well. Rubber gloves are often worn when washing dishes by people who are sensitive to hot water or dish-washing liquids. According to dermatologists, the use of protective gloves is highly recommended whenever working with water and cleaning products, since some chemicals may damage the skin, or allergies may develop in some individuals. Dish gloves are also worn by those who simply don't want to touch the old food particles. Many people also wear aprons.\n\nA major variation in method is the temperature and state of the water. Asians and Latin Americans usually prefer running water because it is seen as being more hygienic as the water is not being reused, and usually use cold water. This is practical in environments where hot water is rarely available from the tap, and sinks are perceived as dirty surfaces (essentially a convenient drain). Westerners usually prefer standing hot water. This is practical in environments where hot water is cheaply and easily available, and sinks are perceived as clean surfaces (essentially a bowl with a convenient drainage device). In this method, the sink is usually first filled with dirty dishes (which may have already been rinsed and scraped to remove most food) and hot, soapy water. The detergent is added while the sink is filling with water, so a layer of suds forms at the top. Then the dishes are washed one by one and thoroughly rinsed to remove the grease dislodged by soap and mechanical action as well as the soap itself, then placed on a rack to begin drying, or dried and put away immediately by a second person. When the sink is empty, if there are more dishes to be washed they may be added to the same dishwater, or the sink may be drained and refilled if clean, hot dishwater is desired.\n\nIn some European countries, the dishes are generally washed in a separate tub placed inside the sink. This practice may have started as a matter of hygiene, as the kitchen sink was the only sink available for all the household water. The clothes were washed in the sink; the water used to wash the floor went down the sink, and so it made sense to separate the dishwater from the sink. There were two other possible reasons: First, kitchen sinks tended to be very large in a time when heating water was considered to be a major household expense; a tub used less water. Second, kitchen sinks were usually made of hard ceramic; any contact between the sink and plates was likely to cause chips, but a tub could be made of more forgiving material. Using a separate washing-up bowl in the sink also provides a place (down the gap between bowl and sink) to dispose of unfinished drink, soaking-water, etc. Using the gap for disposal of waste water requires extra vigilance to make sure food particles and other waste are not trapped under the bowl.\n\nWhere dishes are to be shared among many, such as in restaurants, sanitization is necessary and desirable in order to prevent spread of microorganisms. Most restaurants have three-compartment sinks (depending on country or state regulations) and use the three-sink system (washing, rinsing and sanitizing of dirty dishes) with the first compartment containing a combination of warm water and soap or detergent. Water within the first compartment often needs to be 95 and 120 degrees °F (according to applicable health codes). \n\nMost institutions have a dish-washing machine which sanitizes dishes by a final rinse in either very hot water or a chemical sanitizing solution such as dilute bleach solution (50-100 parts per million chlorine; about 2 ml of 5% bleach per litre of water, approximately one capful of bleach per gallon water). Dishes are placed on large trays and fed onto rollers through the machine. Dishwashers typically exceed and kill all germs, while hand-washing reaches temperatures of at most .\n\nWhile not environmentally friendly, the use of bleach is critical to sanitation when large groups are involved: it evaporates completely, it is cheap, and it kills most germs. Cabinets, refrigerators, countertops, and anything else touched by people in a large group setting should be periodically wiped or sprayed with a dilute bleach solution after being washed with soapy water and rinsed in clean water.\n\nHowever, bleach is less effective in the presence of organic debris, so a small amount of food residue can be enough to permit survival of, e.g., Salmonella bacteria. Scrubbing followed by soaking in bleach is effective at reducing Salmonella contamination, but even this method does not completely eliminate Salmonella bacteria.\n\nIn hand-washing, plastic brushes with nylon bristles are preferred to washcloths or sponges, which can spread microorganisms. Use of soap or sanitizer is mandatory in washing by hand in public food facilities. \n\nTraditionally, dish washing is done by scrubbing the utensils with wet fabric dipped in scrub ash (abu gosok) to scrub away the dirt. The utensils are then rinsed in clean water and hung to drip dry. Scrub ash is specially made by burning wood for dish washing.\n\n"}
{"id": "411986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411986", "title": "Doctors' plot", "text": "Doctors' plot\n\nThe Doctors' plot (, \"doctors' case\", also known as the case of doctors-saboteurs or doctors-killers) was an antisemitic campaign organized by Joseph Stalin. In 1952–1953, a group of predominantly Jewish doctors from Moscow were accused of conspiring to assassinate Soviet leaders. This was later accompanied by publications of anti-Semitic character in the media, which talked about the threats of Zionism and condemned people with Jewish names. Many doctors, officials and others, both Jews and non-Jews, were promptly dismissed from their jobs and arrested. A few weeks after the death of Stalin, the new Soviet leadership stated a lack of evidence and the case was dropped. Soon after, the case was declared to have been fabricated.\n\nThe anti-Jewish campaign was presumably set in motion by Stalin as a pretext to dismiss and replace Lavrenty Beria, prosecute other Soviet leaders, to launch a massive purge of the Communist Party, and, according to Edvard Radzinsky, even to consolidate the country for the future World War III.\n\nIn 1951 Ministry for State Security (MGB) investigator Mikhail Ryumin reported to his superior, Viktor Abakumov, Minister of the MGB, that Professor Yakov Etinger, who was arrested as a \"bourgeois nationalist\" with connections to the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee, had committed malpractice in treating Andrei Zhdanov (died 1948) and Alexander Shcherbakov (died 1945), allegedly with the intention of killing them. However, Abakumov refused to believe the story. Etinger died in prison (2 March 1951) due to interrogations and harsh conditions. Ryumin was then dismissed from his position in the MGB for misappropriating money and was held responsible for the death of Etinger. With the assistance of Georgy Malenkov, Ryumin wrote a letter to Stalin, accusing Abakumov of killing Etinger in order to hide a conspiracy to kill off the Soviet leadership. On 4 July 1951 the Politburo set up a commission (headed by Malenkov and including Beria) to investigate the issue. Based on the commission's report, the Politburo soon passed a resolution on the \"bad situation in the MGB\" and Abakumov was fired.\n\nBeria and Malenkov both tried to use the situation to expand their power by gaining control of the MGB.\n\nAbakumov was arrested and tortured soon after being dismissed as head of the MGB. He was charged with being a sympathizer and protector of the criminal Jewish underground. This arrest was followed by the arrests of many agents who worked for him in the central apparatus of the MGB, including most Jews.\n\nThe doctors-killers case was revived in 1952 when the letter of cardiologist Lydia Timashuk was dug up from the archives. In 1948 Timashuk wrote a letter to the head of Stalin's security, General Nikolai Vlasik, explaining that Zhdanov suffered a heart attack, but the Kremlin doctors who treated him missed it and prescribed the wrong treatment to him. Zhdanov soon died and the doctors covered up their mistake. The letter, however, was originally ignored.\n\nThe Kremlin doctors involved in the cover up were to be arrested, but they were all Russian. To keep the conspiracy as Zionist, Ryumin and Semyon Ignatyev, who had succeeded Abakumov as head of the MGB, had the Jewish doctors Etinger supposedly specified also added to the arrest list; many of them, like Miron Vovsi, had been consulted by the Kremlin's medical department. The arrests started in September 1952. Vlasik was fired as head of Stalin's security and eventually also arrested for ignoring the Timashuk letter.\n\nInitially, 37 were arrested, but the number quickly grew into hundreds. Under torture, prisoners seized in the investigation of the alleged plot were compelled to produce evidence against themselves and their associates.\n\nStalin harangued Ignatyev and accused the MGB of incompetence. He demanded that the interrogations of doctors already under arrest be accelerated. Stalin complained that there was no clear picture of the Zionist conspiracy and no solid evidence that specifically the Jewish doctors were guilty.\n\nNewly opened KGB archives provide evidence that Stalin forwarded the collected interrogation materials to Malenkov, Khrushchev and other \"potential victims of doctors' plot\".\n\nStalin ordered TASS and \"Pravda\" to issue reports about the uncovering of a doctors' plot to assassinate top Soviet leaders, including Stalin. The possible goal of the campaign was to set the stage for show trials. Other sources say that the initiative came from Beria and Malenkov, who continued to use the plot for their own interests. Beria pushed the Politburo to decide to publicize the plot on 9 January 1953. For him it was especially important that the Doctors' Plot got more attention than the Mingrelian Affair, which personally affected him.\n\nOn January 13, 1953, some of the most prestigious and prominent doctors in the USSR were accused of taking part in a vast plot to poison members of the top Soviet political and military leadership. \"Pravda\", the official newspaper of the CPSU, reported the accusations under the headline \"Vicious Spies and Killers under the Mask of Academic Physicians.\"\n\nToday the TASS news agency reported the arrest of a group of saboteur-doctors. This terrorist group, uncovered some time ago by organs of state security, had as their goal shortening the lives of leaders of the Soviet Union by means of medical sabotage.\n\nInvestigation established that participants in the terrorist group, exploiting their position as doctors and abusing the trust of their patients, deliberately and viciously undermined their patients' health by making incorrect diagnoses, and then killed them with bad and incorrect treatments. Covering themselves with the noble and merciful calling of physicians, men of science, these fiends and killers dishonored the holy banner of science. Having taken the path of monstrous crimes, they defiled the honor of scientists.\n\nAmong the victims of this band of inhuman beasts were Comrades A. A. Zhdanov and A. S. Shcherbakov. The criminals confessed that, taking advantage of the illness of Comrade Zhdanov, they intentionally concealed a myocardial infarction, prescribed inadvisable treatments for this serious illness and thus killed Comrade Zhdanov. Killer doctors, by incorrect use of very powerful medicines and prescription of harmful regimens, shortened the life of Comrade Shcherbakov, leading to his death.\n\nThe majority of the participants of the terrorist group… were bought by American intelligence. They were recruited by a branch-office of American intelligence — the international Jewish bourgeois-nationalist organization called \"Joint.\" The filthy face of this Zionist spy organization, covering up their vicious actions under the mask of charity, is now completely revealed…\n\nUnmasking the gang of poisoner-doctors struck a blow against the international Jewish Zionist organization... Now all can see what sort of philanthropists and \"friends of peace\" hid beneath the sign-board of \"Joint.\"\n\nOther participants in the terrorist group (Vinogradov, M. Kogan, Egorov) were discovered, as has been presently determined, to have been long-time agents of English intelligence, serving it for many years, carrying out its most criminal and sordid tasks. The bigwigs of the USA and their English junior partners know that to achieve domination over other nations by peaceful means is impossible. Feverishly preparing for a new world war, they energetically send spies inside the USSR and the people's democratic countries: they attempt to accomplish what the Hitlerites could not do — to create in the USSR their own subversive \"fifth column.\"...\n\nThe Soviet people should not for a minute forget about the need to heighten their vigilance in all ways possible, to be alert for all schemes of war-mongers and their agents, to constantly strengthen the Armed Forces and the intelligence organs of our government.\n\nAmong other famous names mentioned were Solomon Mikhoels (actor-director of the Moscow State Jewish Theater and the head of the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee, assassinated in January 1948), who was called a \"well-known Jewish bourgeois nationalist,\" Miron Vovsi (therapist, Stalin's personal physician and a cousin of Mikhoels), V. Vinogradov (therapist), Mikhail Kogan (therapist), Boris Kogan (therapist), P. Yegorov (therapist), A. Feldman (otolaryngologist), Yakov Etinger (therapist), A. Grinshtein (neuropathologist) and G. Mayorov (therapist). Six of the nine mentioned doctors were Jewish.\n\nThe list of alleged victims included high-ranked officials Andrei Zhdanov, Aleksandr Shcherbakov, Army Marshals Aleksandr Vasilevsky, Leonid Govorov and Ivan Konev, General Sergei Shtemenko, Admiral Gordey Levchenko and others.\n\nStalin intended to publish in Pravda a letter signed by many well-known Soviet Jews in which the Jews involved in the plot would be denounced, but the difference between them and the rest of the Soviet Jews, who are loyal to the USSR and socialism, would be made clear. Two versions of the letter were created, but it was never published. Either Stalin eventually decided not to publish it or it was still being worked on by the time of his death.\n\nAfter Stalin's death on March 5, 1953, the new leadership quickly dismissed all charges related to the plot; the doctors were exonerated in a March 31 decree by the newly appointed Minister of Internal Affairs, Lavrentiy Beria, and on April 6, this was communicated to the public in \"Pravda\". Chief MGB investigator and Deputy Minister of State Security Mikhail Ryumin was accused of fabricating the plot, arrested and later executed. A Komsomol official Nikolai Mesyatsev was assigned by Malenkov to review the Doctors' Plot case and quickly found that it was fabricated.\n\nIn his 1956 \"Secret Speech\", First Secretary Nikita Khrushchev stated that the Doctors' plot was \"fabricated... set up by Stalin,\" but that Stalin did not \"have the time in which to bring it to an end,\" which saved the doctors' lives. Khrushchev also told the session that Stalin called the judge in the case and, regarding the methods to be used, stated \"beat, beat and, beat again.\" Stalin supposedly told his Minister of State Security, \"If you do not obtain confessions from the doctors we will shorten you by a head.\"\n\nKhrushchev also claimed that Stalin hinted to him to incite antisemitism in Ukraine, saying, \"The good workers at the factory should be given clubs so they can beat the hell out of those Jews.\"\n\nAccording to Khrushchev, Stalin told Politburo members, \"You are blind like young kittens. What will happen without me? The country will perish because you do not know how to recognize enemies.\"\n\nIn his Secret Speech at the Communist Party's Twentieth Congress, Nikita Khrushchev asserted that Stalin intended to use the Doctors' trial to launch a massive purge of the Communist Party. In addition, a number of new labor camps were built in Siberia, allegedly to deport most of the Soviet Jewish population to Siberia, similar to deportations of many other ethnic minorities in the Soviet Union, but the plan was not accomplished because of the sudden death of Stalin. According to Louis Rapoport, the genocide was planned to start from the public execution of the imprisoned doctors, and then the \"following incidents would follow\": \"attacks on Jews orchestrated by the secret police, the publication of the statement by the prominent Jews, and a flood of other letters demanding that action be taken. A three-stage program of genocide would be followed. First, almost all Soviet Jews ... would be shipped to camps east of the Urals . . . Second, the authorities would set Jewish leaders at all levels against one another ... Also the MGB [Secret Police] would start killing the elites in the camps, just as they had killed the Yiddish writers ... the previous year. The ... final stage would be to “get rid of the rest.\"\n\nFour large camps were built shortly before Stalin's death in 1953 in southern and western Siberia, with rumors swirling that they were for Jews. A special \"Deportation Commission\" to plan the deportation of Jews to these camps has been reportedly created. Nikolay Poliakov, the secretary of the \"Commission\", stated years later that, according to Stalin's initial plan, the deportation was to begin in the middle of February 1953, but the monumental tasks of compiling lists of Jews had not yet been completed. \"Pure blooded\" Jews were to be deported first, followed by \"half-breeds\" (\"polukrovki\"). Before his death in March 1953, Stalin allegedly had planned the execution of Doctors' plot defendants already on trial in Red Square in March 1953, and then he would cast himself as the savior of Soviet Jews by sending them to camps away from the purportedly enraged Russian populace. There are further statements that describe some aspects of such a planned deportation.\n\nYakov Etinger described how former CPSU Politburo member Nikolai Bulganin said that Stalin asked him in the end of February 1953 to prepare railroad cars for the mass deportation of Jews to Siberia According to a book by another Soviet Politburo member Alexander Yakovlev, Stalin started preparations for the deportation of Jews in February 1953 and ordered to prepare a letter from a group of notable Soviet Jews with request to the Soviet government to carry out the mass deportation of Jews in order to save them from \"the just wrath of Soviet people.\" The letter had to be published in the newspaper Pravda and was found later. According to historian Samson Madiyevsky, the deportation was definitely considered, and the only thing in doubt is the time-frame.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "355521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355521", "title": "Easterseals (U.S.)", "text": "Easterseals (U.S.)\n\nEasterseals (formerly known as Easter Seals; founded in 1919 as the National Society for Crippled Children) is an American 501(c)3 nonprofit providing disability services, with additional support areas serving veterans and military families, seniors, and caregivers.\n\nEasterseals addresses the needs of individuals and families throughout the lifespan – from inclusive child care to respite care – in order to help people \"reach for their full potential.\"\n\nEasterseals meets the standards of the National Health Council and the Better Business Bureau/Wise Giving Alliance.\n\nServices and programs are tailored based on the needs of the individual and the local community. Easterseals has a network of 75 locations across the nation. Services assist people with physical disabilities, mental disabilities, and special needs. Parents can find support for a child who has a diagnosis at birth and there are services for people who have a disability due to disease, injury, or aging. Professionals at Easterseals help people overcome barriers, achieve independence, and reach their goals.\n\nEasterseals also offers services in Australia, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Canada.\n\nEasterseals' offerings are categorized into support areas:\n\n90% of funds raised go to Easterseals disability services across the nation. Easterseals was ranked 1st by the National Health Council for more than 25 years. Easterseals’ funding sources include government grants and agency programs, donations, and fee-for-service initiatives. Donations help the organization provide affordable offerings to clients while maintaining program costs. Easterseals serves about 1.3 million individuals per year.\n\nThe name \"Easter Seals\" derived from an earlier fundraising program: beginning in 1934, colorful adhesive seals, the size of postage stamps, were sold around Easter; purchasers stuck these on mailed envelopes to demonstrate their support for the organization. Because of the program’s success, the organization changed its name from \"the National Society for Crippled Children\" to \"Easter Seals.\" They have since changed their name to \"Easterseals.\"\n\nIn 2003, Easterseals started \"Walk With Me\" events across the country. Thousands of people have attended these events over the years, generating millions of dollars for disability services.\n\nIn 2010, Easterseals expanded the \"seal\" program through introducing the \"Easterseals Blanket.\" The image on the blanket is chosen through an online vote for the Lily Seal of the Year. Artists submit depictions of lilies to be featured on the blanket.\n\nSince the 1920s, Easterseals has worked with federal, state, and local officials to advance legislation for people with disabilities and disability services. This includes the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Passed in 1990, the ADA guarantees the civil rights of people with disabilities and prohibits discrimination.\n\nEasterseals also created a public service campaign that highlighted accessibility and employment issues to be addressed by the ADA’s implementation.\n\nToday, Easterseals continues to advocate for policies that support people with disabilities.\n\nEasterseals headquarters offices in the Board of Trade Building in Chicago and in Washington, D.C. provide assistance to 75 affiliates through management training, implementation of best practices, consultation services, fundraising, marketing, advocacy, and corporate relations.\n\nNationwide, Easterseals' 75 locations provide services to people with disabilities and special needs in their local communities. Each location operates independently as its own 501(c)3 corporation under the Easterseals name.\n\nEasterseals is governed by a National Board of Directors, which is composed of volunteers, most of whom are nominated by one of the organization’s approximately 75 affiliates across the country. Elections to the Board, composed of between 15 and 19 members, are held annually by another larger volunteer body, Easterseals National House of Delegates. Directors are elected for three-year terms, and terms are staggered to achieve strength and continuity on the board.\n\nEasterseals National House of Delegates consists of volunteers certified by their affiliates to represent them as delegates at the organization’s annual convention, thus ensuring broad representation of Easterseals affiliates nationwide. In addition to the numerous training and motivational sessions offered to Easterseals board members, delegates and affiliate staff throughout the convention, the Annual Meeting of the House takes place, when the house elects new members to the national board and addresses any other motions put before it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36158000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36158000", "title": "El Hossein El Ouardi", "text": "El Hossein El Ouardi\n\nEl Hossein El Ouardi ( - born 22 September 1954) is a Moroccan politician of the Party of Progress and Socialism. Since 3 January 2012, he holds the position of Minister of Health in Abdelilah Benkirane's government.\n\nIn January 2014, El Ouardi was physically assaulted while exiting the parliament in Rabat. His assailants were members of the pharmacists union/lobby, and one of them was the brother-in-law of Fouad Ali El Himma, the influential advisor and close-friend of Mohammed VI, in addition to being the cousin of the Party of Authenticity and Modernity female Mayor of Marrakesh. The incident resulted in minor injuries for the minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21476493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21476493", "title": "Emergency medical services in Iceland", "text": "Emergency medical services in Iceland\n\nEmergency medical services in Iceland include the provision of ambulance service. They provide all emergency ambulance service for a population of in excess of 320,000 people in one of the most sparsely settled countries in Europe. The system is government-funded for the first 85 percent of cost, with 15 percent being charged to the individual as a deterrent fee. All services in Iceland are provided by the Icelandic Red Cross, with individual ambulances often co-located with local fire brigades.\n\nThere are currently approximately 77 operational land ambulances in Iceland. These are distributed across almost all communities, usually at fire stations. They are owned and equipped by the Icelandic Red Cross, but are crewed by fire service personnel. In larger centres, such as Reykjavík, the ambulances are staffed by full-time, paid Emergency medical technicians.\nIn smaller centres, EMTs may be part-time, or even on-call from home in some cases. All ambulance personnel are either the equivalent of EMT-B or EMT-I. Staffing of ambulances is normally 2 people, with two EMT-Bs, or, where available, an EMT-B and an EMT-I. Paramedics are usually found only in Reykjavík, which operates a single, Advanced Life Support ambulance with a crew of three. Ambulances are organized according to the country's multiple Health Service Districts, but are centrally dispatched. At 2014 the ambulances were converted Mercedes vans.\n\nBecause of the sparse population, bad weather, and large numbers of airports, most air ambulance service in Iceland is accomplished using fixed-wing aircraft. The government of Iceland has contracted out this service since 2001. The type of aircraft normally used is a Beechcraft Super King Air 200 operated by the airline Mýflug (Myflug Air). Mýflug has one dedicated air ambulance in Iceland, based at Akureyri, the site of the country's second largest hospital. There are normally 2 aircraft available (one dedicated, one as a charter), with a third charter aircraft being provided during the winter months.\nWhen weather conditions or other circumstances make fixed-wing inappropriate, the system has access to three helicopters (Aerospatiale Dauphin or Super Puma) operated by the Icelandic Coast Guard, and based at Reykjavík. On medical missions, Coast Guard helicopters are normally staffed by physicians. Iceland's Air Ambulance system responds to approximately 450 fixed-wing calls per year, and an additional 130-160 helicopter calls per year.\n\nAn attempt to describe the model of care used quickly becomes complex. At the ALS end of the spectrum, the model closely resembles the German version of the Franco-German model, with paramedics working with and under the direction of a physician. This represents, however, only the 5 percent of EMS personnel in the entire country who are paramedics, and only a single ambulance, out of 77 units in service. For the balance, the model much more closely resembles the Anglo-American model, with EMTs making their own treatment decisions based upon local guidelines, albeit at a basic life support level, or at best, with the limited skill set of an EMT-I.\n\nThere is not currently an official national training standard for EMS personnel in Iceland. As a result, the training levels which operate by default are those currently in use in the United States. Training for EMT Basic, and EMT Intermediate are directly comparable with the U.S. standards. These are conducted by the Icelandic Centre for EMS Education.\n\nThere are currently only about 20 paramedics in the whole of Iceland, out of a total of approximately 400 certified EMS staff. Since paramedic training is currently unavailable in Iceland, all of these were trained and certified in the United States at the Center for Emergency Medicine located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Paramedics work within a sharply limited and small scope of practice in Iceland. There is a single ALS land ambulance, located in Reykjavík, and staffed by a paramedic and a physician. Paramedics are also sometimes used to provide care on air ambulance transports. Paramedics completing training in the U.S. are validated and certified by the Centre for EMS Education.\n\nThere is, at the moment, no governing legislation regarding the practice of EMS personnel in Iceland. This is particularly critical with respect to the administration of medications, and is one of the reasons why Icelandic paramedics almost always work in partnership with a physician who is physically present on the scene. The Icelandic Parliament has assigned responsibility for oversight to the various local health authorities, and, as a result, there is considerable variation in permissible skills. The following, while far from complete, will serve as a general overview of permissible skills at the various levels of training:\n\n\n\n\nIceland uses the European emergency telephone number 112 for all emergencies. Dispatch, which used to be a local function, merged into two dispatch centres, and is in the process of merging into a single, integrated dispatch centre for all three emergency services. The new system involves both CAD and also satellite-based automatic vehicle locating for all emergency vehicles, with plans to expand the system to include snowplows and sanders in order to expedite emergency responses in bad weather. The system dispatches an estimated 22,000 EMS calls per year.\n\n"}
{"id": "8216115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8216115", "title": "European Association for Osseointegration", "text": "European Association for Osseointegration\n\nEAO asbl, operating as the European Association for Osseointegration (EAO) is a non-profit organisation founded in Munich in 1991 to serve as an international, interdisciplinary and independent science-based forum for all professionals interested in the art and science of Osseointegration.\n\nIts headquarters are in Ixelles, Brussels, Belgium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19138137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19138137", "title": "Fleischer's syndrome", "text": "Fleischer's syndrome\n\nFleischer's syndrome is an extremely rare congenital anomaly characterized by displacement of the nipples, occasional polymastia, and hypoplasia of both kidneys.\n"}
{"id": "6173541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6173541", "title": "Functional murmur", "text": "Functional murmur\n\nA functional murmur (innocent murmur, physiologic murmur) is a heart murmur that is primarily due to physiologic conditions outside the heart, as opposed to structural defects in the heart itself.\n\nSerious conditions can arise even in the absence of a primary heart defect, and it is possible for peripheral conditions to generate abnormalities in the heart. Therefore, caution should be applied to use of the terms \"innocent\" or \"benign\" in this context.\n\nUse of the term dates to the mid 19th century.\n\nFunctional murmurs are an important consideration in the precordial examination of an infant or child.\n\n\nInnocent murmurs are inconsequential and usually disappear as the child grows. ECG and Chest XRAY are normal.\n\nIn the adult, hyperdynamic circulation of the blood may also produce a functional murmur, such as in anemia or thyrotoxicosis.\n\n\n5. Circulation 2005: Innocent Murmurs http://circ.ahajournals.org/cgi/content/full/111/3/e20\n\n"}
{"id": "335623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=335623", "title": "Gilbert's syndrome", "text": "Gilbert's syndrome\n\nGilbert's syndrome (GS) is a mild liver disorder in which the liver does not properly process bilirubin. Many people never have symptoms. Occasionally a slight yellowish color of the skin or whites of the eyes may occur. Other possible symptoms include feeling tired, weakness, and abdominal pain.\nGilbert's syndrome is due to a mutation in the UGT1A1 gene which results in decreased activity of the bilirubin uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase enzyme. It is typically inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and occasionally in an autosomal dominant pattern depending on the type of mutation. Episodes of jaundice may be triggered by stress such as exercise, menstruation, or not eating. Diagnosis is based on higher levels of unconjugated bilirubin in the blood without either signs of other liver problems or red blood cell breakdown.\nTypically no treatment is needed. If jaundice is significant phenobarbital may be used. Gilbert's syndrome affects about 5% of people in the United States. Males are more often diagnosed than females. It is often not noticed until late childhood to early adulthood. The condition was first described in 1901 by Augustin Nicolas Gilbert.\n\nGilbert's syndrome produces an elevated level of unconjugated bilirubin in the bloodstream, but normally has no serious consequences. Mild jaundice may appear under conditions of exertion, stress, fasting, and infections, but the condition is otherwise usually asymptomatic. Severe cases are seen by yellowing of the skin tone and yellowing of the sclera in the eye.\n\nGS has been reported to possibly contribute to an accelerated onset of neonatal jaundice, especially in the presence of increased red blood cell destruction due to diseases such as G6PD deficiency. This situation can be especially dangerous if not quickly treated, as the high bilirubin causes irreversible neurological disability in the form of kernicterus.\n\nThe enzymes that are defective in GS - UDP glucuronosyltransferase 1 family, polypeptide A1 (UGT1A1) - are also responsible for some of the liver's ability to detoxify certain drugs. For example, Gilbert's syndrome is associated with severe diarrhea and neutropenia in patients who are treated with irinotecan, which is metabolized by UGT1A1.\n\nWhile paracetamol (acetaminophen) is not metabolized by UGT1A1, it is metabolized by one of the other enzymes also deficient in some people with GS. A subset of people with GS may have an increased risk of paracetamol toxicity.\n\nSeveral analyses have found a significantly decreased risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) in individuals with GS.\n\nSpecifically, people with mildly elevated levels of bilirubin (1.1 mg/dl to 2.7 mg/dl) were at lower risk for CAD and at lower risk for future heart disease. These researchers went on to perform a meta-analysis of data available up to 2002, and confirmed the incidence of atherosclerotic disease (hardening of the arteries) in subjects with GS had a close and inverse relationship to the serum bilirubin. This beneficial effect was attributed to bilirubin IXα which is recognized as a potent antioxidant, rather than confounding factors such as high-density lipoprotein levels.\n\nThis association was also seen in long-term data from the Framingham Heart Study. Moderately elevated levels of bilirubin in people with GS and the (TA)/(TA) genotype were associated with one-third the risk for both coronary heart disease and cardiovascular disease as compared to those with the (TA)/(TA) genotype (i.e. a normal, nonmutated gene locus).\n\nPlatelet counts and MPV are decreased in patients with Gilbert's Syndrome. The elevated levels of bilirubin and decreasing levels of MPV and CRP in Gilbert's syndrome patients may have an effect on the slowing down of the atherosclerotic process.\n\nSymptoms, whether connected or not to GS, have been reported in a subset of those affected: feeling tired all the time (fatigue), difficulty maintaining concentration, unusual patterns of anxiety, loss of appetite, nausea, abdominal pain, loss of weight, itching (with no rash), and others, but scientific studies found no clear pattern of adverse symptoms related to the elevated levels of unconjugated bilirubin in adults. However, other substances glucuronidized by the affected enzymes in Gilbert's syndrome sufferers could theoretically, at their toxic levels, cause these symptoms. Consequently, debate exists about whether GS should be classified as a disease. However, Gilbert's syndrome has been linked to an increased risk of gallstones.\n\nGilbert's syndrome is a phenotypic effect, characterized by mild jaundice due to increased unconjugated bilirubin, that arises from several different genotypic variants of the gene for the enzyme responsible for changing bilirubin to the conjugated form.\n\nGilbert's syndrome is characterized by a 70–80% reduction in the glucuronidation activity of the enzyme, (UGT1A1). The \"UGT1A1\" gene is located on human chromosome 2.\n\nMore than 100 variants of the \"UGT1A1\" gene are known, designated as \"UGT1A1*n\" (where n is the general chronological order of discovery), either of the gene itself or of its promoter region. \"UGT1A1 \"is associated with a TATA box promoter region; this region most commonly contains the genetic sequence A(TA)TAA; this variant accounts for about 50% of alleles in many populations. However, several allelic polymorphic variants of this region occur, the most common of which results from adding another dinucleotide repeat TA to the promoter region, resulting in A(TA)TAA, which is called \"UGT1A1*28\"; this common variant accounts for about 40% of alleles in some populations, but is seen less often, around 3% of alleles, in Southeast and East Asian people and Pacific Islanders.\n\nIn most populations, Gilbert's syndrome is most commonly associated with homozygous A(TA)TAA alleles. In 94% of GS cases, two other glucuronosyltransferase enzymes, UGT1A6 (rendered 50% inactive) and UGT1A7 (rendered 83% ineffective), are also affected.\n\nHowever, Gilbert's syndrome can arise without TATA box promoter polymorphic mutations; in some populations, particularly healthy Southeast and East Asians, Gilbert's syndrome is more often a consequence of heterozygote missense mutations (such as Gly71Arg also known as \"UGT1A1*6\", Tyr486Asp also known as \"UGT1A1*7\", Pro364Leu also known as \"UGT1A1*73\") in the actual gene coding region, which may be associated with significantly higher bilirubin levels.\n\nBecause of its effects on drug and bilirubin breakdown and because of its genetic inheritance, Gilbert's syndrome can be classed as a minor inborn error of metabolism.\n\nPeople with GS predominantly have elevated unconjugated bilirubin, while conjugated bilirubin is usually within the normal range and is less than 20% of the total. Levels of bilirubin in GS patients are reported to be from 20 μM to 90 μM (1.2 to 5.3 mg/dl) compared to the normal amount of < 20 μM. GS patients have a ratio of unconjugated/conjugated (indirect/direct) bilirubin commensurately higher than those without GS.\n\nThe level of total bilirubin is often further increased if the blood sample is taken after fasting for two days, and a fast can, therefore, be useful diagnostically. A further conceptual step that is rarely necessary or appropriate is to give a low dose of phenobarbital: the bilirubin will decrease substantially.\n\nTests can also detect DNA mutations of \"UGT1A1\" by polymerase chain reaction or DNA fragment sequencing.\n\nWhile Gilbert's syndrome is considered harmless, it is clinically important because it may give rise to a concern about a blood or liver condition, which could be more dangerous. However, these conditions have additional indicators:\n\n\nTypically no treatment is needed. If jaundice is significant phenobarbital may be used.\n\nGilbert's syndrome was first described by French gastroenterologist Augustin Nicolas Gilbert and co-workers in 1901. In German literature, it is commonly associated with Jens Einar Meulengracht.\n\nAlternative, less common names for this disorder include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47328881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47328881", "title": "Guided self-change", "text": "Guided self-change\n\nGuided self-change (GSC) treatment has been accepted by American Psychological Association Division 12, Society of Clinical Psychology, as an empirically supported treatment.\n\nGSC is a brief, cognitive-behavioral, motivational intervention developed in the early 1980s. It is a form of brief cognitive behavioral therapy. It was first developed for problem drinkers, but has since then, been researched on several populations (e.g., drug abusers, Spanish-speaking alcohol abuses, adolescents).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26047118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26047118", "title": "HBF Health Fund", "text": "HBF Health Fund\n\nHBF is a private health insurance company based in Perth, Western Australia. HBF is Western Australia’s largest health insurance provider and also offers general insurance products including life insurance, car insurance, home insurance and travel insurance.\n\nIn 1941, HBF was established as the Metropolitan Hospitals Benefit Fund of Western Australia, with the core purpose of providing affordable health services to Western Australians.\nHBF’s purpose can be directly traced back to its origins as a key provider of social services prior to the introduction of universal government health cover in Medicare. It was established to provide a pool of funds to ensure the ongoing provision of affordable health services for members. Since its inception, HBF has grown to become the leading provider of health insurance in Western Australia.\n\nIn 2009, HBF had 7.7% of the national market share for private health insurance.\n\nOn the 8 May 2017 senior international executive, Mr John Van der Wielen will take up his appointment as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of HBF Health.\n\nHBF offers health insurance for hospital, ancillary, urgent ambulance and cover for complementary therapies. HBF also offers life, car, home and travel insurance.\n\nHBF has 16 branches located throughout Western Australia including: \n\n"}
{"id": "21421587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21421587", "title": "Health Affairs", "text": "Health Affairs\n\nHealth Affairs is a peer-reviewed healthcare journal established in 1981 by John K. Iglehart; since 2014, the editor-in-chief is Alan Weil. It was described by \"The Washington Post\" as \"the bible of health policy\".\n\n\"Health Affairs\" is indexed and/or abstracted in PubMed, MEDLINE, EBSCO databases, ProQuest, LexisNexis, Current Contents/Health Sciences and Behavioral Sciences, and SwetsWise Online Content.\n\n\"Narrative Matters\" is a personal-essay section. It was established in 1999 with Fitzhugh Mullan (George Washington University) as its original editor.\n\nDuring its history, \"Narrative Matters\" has published over 160 policy narratives on a wide range of topics by well-known writers including Julia Alvarez, Alexander McCall Smith, and Abraham Verghese, by distinguished medical professionals and academics, as well as by patients. In 2006, the Johns Hopkins University Press published a selection of essays from \"Narrative Matters\": \"Narrative Matters: The Power of the Personal Essay in Health Policy\" (eds. Fitzhugh Mullan, Ellen Ficklen, Kyna Rubin).\n\nSince its inception, \"Narrative Matters\" has been funded by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation. The Kellogg Foundation also funded several conferences that brought together present and future contributors to \"Narrative Matters\".\n"}
{"id": "48479068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48479068", "title": "Index of nursing articles", "text": "Index of nursing articles\n\nThis is an index of nursing articles on Wikipedia.\n"}
{"id": "55709766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55709766", "title": "International Journal of Medical Informatics", "text": "International Journal of Medical Informatics\n\nThe International Journal of Medical Informatics is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering health informatics. It was established in 1970 as the International Journal of Bio-Medical Computing, obtaining its current name in 1997. It is published by Elsevier on behalf of both the European Federation for Medical Informatics and the International Medical Informatics Association, and is the official journal of both societies. The editor-in-chief is Heimar de Fátima Marin (Federal University of São Paulo). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 3.210.\n"}
{"id": "18734200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18734200", "title": "Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children", "text": "Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children\n\nKapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children is part of Hawaii Pacific Health's network of hospitals. It is located in Honolulu, Hawaii, within the residential inner city district of Makiki. Kapiolani Medical Center is Hawaii's only children's hospital with a team of physicians and nurses and specialized technology trained specifically to care for children, from infants to young adults. It is the state's only 24-hour pediatric emergency department, pediatric intensive care unit and adolescent unit.\n\nThe facility was founded by Queen Kapiolani as the Kapiolani Maternity Home in 1890 for which she held bazaars and luaus to raise $8,000 needed to start the Home. It has since changed its name several times. Kauikeolani Children’s Hospital opened in 1909 named for Emma Kauikeolani Napoleon Mahelona (1862–1931), the wife of Albert Spencer Wilcox (1844–1919). In 1978, it merged with Kapiolani Hospital to become Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5670147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5670147", "title": "Kent C. Berridge", "text": "Kent C. Berridge\n\nKent C. Berridge is a professor of psychology (biopsychology) and neuroscience at the University of Michigan in the United States.\n\nBerridge conducts research relating to brain systems of motivation, affect, reward “liking”, reward “wanting”, emotion, fear, pleasure, drug addiction, eating disorders, and decision utility. He also studies natural syntactical chains of behavior (e.g. grooming; taste response patterns) in animals with colleague Dr. J. Wayne Aldridge. With Dr. Piotr Winkielman, he has investigated the issue of unconscious emotion in humans\n\nBerridge is known for his work on brain systems for pleasure (“liking”). Using an assay for “liking” called Taste Reactivity Analysis developed by taste researchers, Berridge measures facial palatability responses to tastes, which are similar between rodents, primates and humans. When something enjoyably sweet is tasted, characteristic licking responses occur. When something aversively bitter is tasted, gaping and head shaking occur. Berridge has helped identify \"hedonic hotspots\" in the brain, such as the nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum, where opioid, endocannabinoid, and GABA neurotransmission coordinate the “liking” of tastes. Berridge postulates that these hedonic hotspots may be crucial for how the brain produces the hedonic pleasurable feelings common to delicious food, sex, drugs, and other rewards (a role previously thought to be played mostly by brain dopamine systems).\n\nBerridge and colleague Dr. Terry Robinson have formulated a contemporary theory of addiction called the Incentive Sensitization Theory of Addiction. According to this theory, drug addiction develops from a sensitization of the mesolimbic dopamine system. Dopamine normally functions to attribute incentive salience to stimuli associated with rewards like food and sex, and triggers reward “wanting”. Drugs hijack this “wanting” system. Following repeated use of drugs, the dopamine system becomes hyper-responsive and drug cues become hyper-salient. This means drug cues are nearly impossible for addicts to ignore, and when they are encountered they can lead to intense cravings and/or relapse. This sensitized cue-triggered drug 'wanting' can persist for years after an addict quits drugs, and long after drug withdrawal has ceased. This fact may account for the tendency of former addicts to relapse to drug use after quitting, sometimes even after many years of abstinence.\n\nBerridge and Robinson helped redefine the role of mesolimbic dopamine in the brain, which had previously been viewed as a pleasure neurotransmitter. Dopamine is no longer widely regarded as a pleasure transmitter. Instead, dopamine is thought to mediate reward, that is, to attribute incentive salience to reward-associated stimuli.\n\n"}
{"id": "3154110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3154110", "title": "LOINC", "text": "LOINC\n\nLogical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) is a database and universal standard for identifying medical laboratory observations. First developed in 1994, it was created and is maintained by the Regenstrief Institute, a US nonprofit medical research organization. LOINC was created in response to the demand for an electronic database for clinical care and management and is publicly available at no cost.\n\nIt is endorsed by the American Clinical Laboratory Association and the College of American Pathologists. Since its inception, the database has expanded to include not just medical laboratory code names but also nursing diagnosis, nursing interventions, outcomes classification, and patient care data sets.\n\nLOINC applies universal code names and identifiers to medical terminology related to electronic health records. The purpose is to assist in the electronic exchange and gathering of clinical results (such as laboratory tests, clinical observations, outcomes management and research). LOINC has two main parts: laboratory LOINC and clinical LOINC. Clinical LOINC contains a subdomain of Document Ontology which captures types of clinical reports and documents.\n\nSeveral standards, such as IHE or HL7, use LOINC to electronically transfer results from different reporting systems to the appropriate healthcare networks. However, the health information enclosed is identified by a multiplicity of code values that may vary according to the entity producing those results. This has obvious disadvantages to the healthcare network that may need to adopt different codes to access and manage information coming from multiple sources. Managed care providers, for example, often have negotiated contracts that reimburse episodes of care and unique coding to trigger automated claim payment. Mapping each entity-specific code to its corresponding universal code can represent a significant investment of both human and financial capital.\n\nA universal code system will enable facilities and departments across the world to receive and send results from their areas for comparison and consultation and may contribute toward a larger public health initiative of improving clinical outcomes and quality of care.\n\nLOINC is one of the standards for use in U.S. Federal Government systems for the electronic exchange of clinical health information. In 1999, it was identified by the HL7 Standards Development Organization as a preferred code set for laboratory test names in transactions between health care facilities, laboratories, laboratory testing devices, and public health authorities.\n\nA formal, distinct, and unique 6-part name is given to each term for test or observation identity. The database currently has over 71,000 observation terms that can be accessed and understood universally. \nEach database record includes six fields for the unique specification of each identified single test, observation, or measurement:\n\n\nA unique code (format: nnnnn-n) is assigned to each entry upon registration. Other database fields include status and mapping information for database change management, synonyms, related terms, substance information (e.g. molar mass, CAS registry number), choices of answers for nominal scales, translations.\n\nSome of the advantages resulting from adopting LOINC may include improved communication in integrated healthcare delivery networks, improved community wide electronic health records, the automatic transfer to public health authorities of case reports for reportable diseases (e.g. for disease control or detection of epidemics), improved transfer of payment information for services rendered and a significant improvement in the overall quality of health care by reducing errors in the system.\n\nThe fact that universal standards are being promoted (if not adopted by national organizations and agencies) is an indication that the dialogue will continue regarding the development, structure, financing, monitoring, enforcement, and integration of standards within the broader health care system.\n\nInternational interest in LOINC continues to grow. A number of efforts have been undertaken to translate the LOINC documents and terms into various languages, such as Simplified Chinese, German, Spanish. For more information on LOINC International, see LOINC International. As of January, 2009, the software RELMA (Regenstrief LOINC Mapping Assistant) is available in separate downloads that contain an additional word index in Spanish, Simplified Chinese, or Korean, which allows searching in these languages in addition to English. Harmonization efforts between LOINC and SNOMED CT were initiated in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7322120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7322120", "title": "Lim Swee Aun", "text": "Lim Swee Aun\n\nTan Sri Dr. Lim Swee Aun (; 1 September 1915 – 13 August 1977) was a Malaysian Chinese politician from the Malaysian Chinese Association, and a Cabinet member.\n\nThe eldest son of Lim Tee Hooi and Foong Cheong Ngan, Swee Aun was born on 1 September 1915 in Taiping, Perak and educated at the King Edward VII School (Taiping.\n\nHe was a keen Rugby player and played for the school in the 1930s.\n\nIn June 1932, Swee Aun joined the King Edward VII College of Medicine, in Singapore (subsequently merged with Raffles College to form the University of Malaya) at the age of 16 years. He was a brilliant scholar and gained Distinction in Anatomy in the 2nd Professional Examination, an honour he shared with his classmate Quek Eng Lan (whom he subsequently married on 22 August 1938). He was awarded a scholarship for this achievement. In the Final examination in 1938, Swee Aun obtained Distinction in Medicine and Materia Medica and was awarded the much coveted Lim Boon Keng Medal.\n\nWhile in College, he was also a great sportsman. He was Captain of the Singapore All Blues Rugby Team in 1935 which won the Trophy for Pan-Malayan Interstate Rugby Matches.\n\nLim Swee Aun completed his housemanship in Singapore General Hospital. In 1939 he was posted to the Sungai Buloh Leprosarium before moving to Ipoh General Hospital and to Taiping, Perak, his hometown in 1940.\n\nIn December 1941, war came and Taiping experienced the 1st bomb on 8 December. The main attack from the Japanese Army came from the north. So Lim Swee Aun decided to evacuate his whole family to Rev. Quek Kheng Hoon's (his father-in-law) rambutan estate in Bukit Timah, Singapore.\n\nLim Swee Aun stayed on in Taiping Hospital and evacuated with the Medical Convoy by stages going southwards as the enemy came closer from the north. He finally arrived in Singapore and joined the Medical Team there. But soon the whole family had to abandon the Bukit Timah rambutan estate as the enemy approached. They moved to the Prinsep Street Presbyterian Church where they took refuge under the church pews, together with many others. Bombing and cannon fire continued all day and night from across the causeway. Singapore surrendered and the Japanese soldiers were everywhere. All non-Singaporeans were returned to Malaya. Lim Swee Aun and his family travelled in a cattle truck, taking 4 days and 3 nights to reach Taiping.\n\nDr. Lim Swee Aun worked for Dr. Tan Chen Leng in Taiping. During the occupation period, Lim Swee Aun secretly supplied medicine to the Prisoners of War. Dr. Lim Swee Aun, Dr. Tan Cheng Leng and the Parsi Jal Manecksha also secretly helped the Indian Prisoners of War of the Motor Transport Unit No. 1 under the Command of Subedar Nurud Din. They contributed a sum of $15,000/- to Dr. Tarlok Singh to help them buy medicines and food for the sick Indian P.O.W.s. They had also been using a radio to listen to the Allied news, dismantling the radio and hiding it away after listening each time. They were part of the \"inner circle of war news.\" He kept this secret, even from his wife. After the war, Lim Swee Aun was awarded a commendation Certificate for his deeds by the British Government through Malcolm McDonald.\n\nAfter the Japanese surrender on 2 September 1945, Lim Swee Aun resigned from Dr. Tan Chen Leng's employment and started his own practice at 75 Kota Road, Taiping, Perak. He had to raise money to buy the premises by pawning whatever jewellery he could from his mother and wife. He worked hard, day and night attending to his sick patients and doing house calls even though the country was in a state of Malayan Emergency from the communist activities. He often treated his patients for free when they could not afford it.\n\nHe was a founder and Life member of the Malaysian Chinese Association in Taiping. In 1959 Lim Swee Aun became a member of Parliament when he won the seat of Larut Selatan. He was appointed Minister of Health in 1962 and later in the year he became Minister of Commerce and Industry.\n\nLim Swee Aun's responsibility as minister was to industralise the country. He encouraged Foreign investments in Joint Ventures but stood firm on the 51% Malaysian participation. Industrial estates were established throughout the country from Perlis in the north to Johore in the south.\n\nThe seeds of what was to become a major industry in Malaysia were sown by the then Malaysian Minister of Commerce and Industry, Dr. Lim Swee Aun, in 1963. On his way to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Conference (GATT) Geneva that year, Dr. Lim confirmed that his ministry had received many inquiries from foreign and local firms regarding the possibility of setting up vehicle manufacturing factories in the Federation. The bigger plan, he subsequently announced, was to establish a motor vehicle industry in Malaysia by stages - from basic assembly with local content, to chassis build and finally to a fully locally made car. It would be exactly 20 years later that Perusahaan Otomobile Nasional Berhad (Proton (carmaker)) was incorporated (7 May 1983), and Malaysia's first locally built car, the Proton Saga, was launched on 9 July 1985.\n\nLim Swee Aun was involved in the final rounds of negotiations on the Malaysia talks. A Malayan delegation departed for London on 25 June 1963 and was led by Tun Abdul Razak, Tan Siew Sin and Dr Lim Swee Aun (Minister for Commerce).\nThe function of Mr. Tan and Dr. Lim was in Sir Geofroy Tory's view, to restrain Tun Razak from making undue concessions. Agreement was reached on the main points of issue on 5 July and only then did Tunku himself leave for London. Dr. Lim was one of the signatories of the Agreement Relating to Malaysia (1963).\nSyed Jaafar Albar participated in verbal duels with the Singaporean Prime Minister, Lee Kuan Yew, over the issue of ketuanan Melayu (Malay sovereignty over Malaysia), accusing Lee and some other Chinese Malaysians — referring to them as \"kaum pendatang\" or \"immigrants\" — of being lodgers (\"orang tumpangan\"), abusing the hospitality of the Malays who were the \"masters of the house\". \nThis provoked a response from Cabinet member Swee Aun, who insisted \"we are co-owners, not lodgers, not guests.\"\nPrime Minister Lee Kuan Yew in his speech at the Malaysia Solidarity Convention on 6 June 1965 congratulated Lim Swee Aun for\nhis courage in saying it.\n\n1915 Sep Born, Taiping, Perak, Malaya\n1938 Graduated Licentiate of Medicine & Surgery\n1948-1950 Nominated Taiping Town Council\n1949 Jan Justice of Peace, Perak\n1953-1955 Member Perak State legislative Council\n1959 Aug Elected Member of Parliament Larut Selatan\n1962 Aug Appointed Minister of Health\n1962 Oct Appointed Minister of Commerce & Industry\n1963 Mar Attended ECAFE Conference in Manila\n1963 Jun Took active part in Malaysia negotiations in London\n1963 Nov Charman, Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference, Kuala Lumpur\n1964 Nov Leader Malaysian delegation to Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference Trinidad, Jamaica\n1965 Mar Leader Malaysian delegation to ECAFE, New Zealand\n\n"}
{"id": "22475636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22475636", "title": "List of dermatologists", "text": "List of dermatologists\n\nThis is a list of dermatologists who have made notable contributions to the field of dermatology.\n\n"}
{"id": "3952184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3952184", "title": "Lynne McTaggart", "text": "Lynne McTaggart\n\nLynne McTaggart (born 23 January 1951, in New York City) is an American lecturer, journalist, author, and publisher. She is the author of six books, including \"The Intention Experiment\" and \"The Field\". According to her author profile, she is a spokesperson \"on consciousness, the new physics, and the practices of conventional and alternative medicine.\"\n\nMcTaggart is an anti-vaccinationist. She promotes this belief in her book \"What Doctors Don't Tell You\" and in other publications. This has drawn significant criticism of her work and has created controversy.\n\nIn her autobiography McTaggart reports that after recovering from an illness using alternative medical approaches her husband suggested she start a newsletter on the risks of some medical practices and devised the title: \"What Doctors Don't Tell You\". In 1996 McTaggart published the book with the same name.\n\nShe and her husband set up a public company in 2001, \"What Doctors Don't Tell You plc\", later \"Conatus plc\", which published newsletters, magazines and audio-tapes based on conferences and seminars including, \"What Doctors Don't Tell You\", \"PROOF!\", and \"Living the Field\". This company was wound up in 2009.\n\nA new company, \"Wddty Publishing Ltd\", run by McTaggart and her husband, took over the \"What Doctors Don't Tell You\" website, and \"New Age Publishing Ltd\" for McTaggart's other publishing and public-speaking activities. Publication of their monthly magazine \"What Doctors Don't Tell You\" restarted in August 2012, in a glossy format aimed at newsagent and high-street distribution, instead of using the previous subscription model, and carrying paid advertising, something McTaggart had originally said WDDTY would not do.\n\nIn her book \"The Field\", McTaggart asserts that the universe is unified by an interactive field. The book has been translated into fourteen languages. In a later book, \"The Intention Experiment\", she discusses research in the field of human consciousness which she says supports the theory that \"the universe is connected by a vast quantum energy field\" and can be influenced by thought. Michael Shermer states that this belief is contradicted by conflicting evidence (e.g. studies on intercessory prayer).\n\nMcTaggart has a personal-development program called \"Living The Field\" which is based on an idiosyncratic interpretation of the zero point field as applied to quantum mechanics. She appears in the extended version of the movie \"What the Bleep Do We Know!?\", (2004).\n\nFrom 1996 until 2002 McTaggart and her husband Bryan Hubbard published the monthly newsletter \"Mother Knows Best\", later renamed \"Natural Parent magazine\", focusing on home schooling, environmental and health concerns, including nutrition and homeopathy. They also published related books: \"My Learning Child\", \"My Spiritual Child\" and \"My Healthy Child\".\n\nSignificant portions of her book about Kathleen Cavendish, Marchioness of Hartington appeared without attribution\nor permission in \"The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys: An American Saga\" (1987), by historian Doris Kearns Goodwin. Goodwin eventually resolved the matter with a public apology to McTaggart and a \"substantial\" monetary settlement.\n\n\"What Doctors Don't Tell You\" has been cited for factual errors in its attacks on medicine, such as confusing the antiviral drug Tamiflu for a vaccine and attributing deaths to a nonexistent avian influenza vaccine. Ben Goldacre has described McTaggart as \"viciously, viciously anti-vaccine\" and notes that \"In a radical move, even for the vaccine fear-mongering community, this time she has people dying from a vaccine that \"doesn’t actually exist\"\".\n\n\"The Field\" has been characterized by Mark Henderson of \"The Times\" as pseudoscience, focusing on her personal understanding of quantum physics as a misconception.\n\nMcTaggart was reported to have threatened to sue Simon Singh after he contacted Comag, the distributors of WDDTY, complaining that the magazine was \"largely unscientific\" and \"promoting advice that could potentially harm readers.\" \"Also, many of the adverts appear to make pseudoscientific and unsubstantiated claims,\" he said. \"I even offered to meet with Comag and introduce them to medical experts, but they have not accepted this invitation. When I suggested that I would blog about our email exchange, their reaction was to tell me in no uncertain terms: 'I should inform you that we have sought legal advice in respect of this matter. We would take any attempts to damage our reputation on social media or elsewhere very seriously.'\"\n\nIn the months between first publication of \"What Doctors Don't Tell You\" in magazine form, and February 2013, 54 breaches of the Code of Advertising Practice in 11 adverts were adjudicated and upheld by the Advertising Standards Authority along with a further 11 informally resolved cases, concerning adverts in the first two issues, with more breaches in subsequent issues too.\n\nIn an interview on BBC Radio 4, GP and author Dr. Margaret McCartney stated: \"I'm astounded that Lynne thinks this is an evidence-based publication. It's anything but,\" she said. \"The problem with evidence is that it can tell you things that you'd rather not know. A lot of the time medicine does do harm but that's why doctors and scientists are duty-bound to put their research findings out there and to stop doing things that cause harm. What we shouldn't do is abandon medicine and the scientific method and go straight for alternative medicine with no good evidence that that works either.\" She criticised stories in the magazine as \"absolute rubbish\" and \"ridiculously alarmist\".\n\nIn an article in The Times in October 2013 Tom Whipple, science correspondent, said that \"Experts are calling on high street shops to stop selling a magazine that claims that vitamin C cures HIV, suggests homeopathy could treat cancer and implies that the cervical cancer vaccine has killed hundreds of girls.\"\n\nMcTaggart is married to publisher Bryan Hubbard and lives in London with her two daughters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4438288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4438288", "title": "Medical logic module", "text": "Medical logic module\n\nA medical logic module (MLM) is an independent unit in a healthcare knowledge base that represents the knowledge published on a requirement for treating a patient according to a single medical decision.\n\nPossible usage is with an event monitor program in an intensive care ward or with hospital information system on occurrence of defined conditions. See Arden syntax reference for examples. Early introduction is given with monographs.\n\nThe Arden syntax has been defined as a grammar which could make MLMs swappable between various platforms. XML representation of Arden (ArdenML) can be transformed by Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations (XSLTs) to other forms.\n\nThere is no reference stated for general implementation as a transfer method between different information systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "38519698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38519698", "title": "National Commission on AIDS", "text": "National Commission on AIDS\n\nThe U.S. National Commission on AIDS was established by a statute enacted November 4, 1988, with the aim of \"promoting the development of a national consensus on policy concerning acquired immune deficiency syndrome [AIDS]\". It produced several reports over the next 4 years.\n\nIn response to the Reagan administration's failure to respond to the recommendations of the President's Commission on the HIV Epidemic (1987–88), Congress passed legislation sponsored by Representative Roy Rowland, a Georgia Democrat and the only physician in Congress, that created the National Commission on AIDS. The legislation specified that its members be people \"especially qualified ... by reason of their education, training, or experience\" and the commission's membership balanced to cover \"the fields of medicine, science, law, ethics, health-care economics, and health-care and social services\". Five members were appointed by the majority and minority leaders of the House, 5 by the majority and minority leaders of the Senate, and 2 by the President. The Secretaries of Defense, Health and Human Services, and Veterans Affairs served as non-voting members ex officio. The members were given authority to elect their own chairperson. The commission was charged with producing a report after two years and the President was authorized to extend the commission's life for an additional two years.\n\nThe commission began work in August 1989 after several months of delay while members were appointed.\n\nMost members of the commission served for the entire period from August 1989 to September 1993, except as indicated:\n\nIn July 1992, Johnson told an interviewer that was considering resigning because of the Bush administration's failure to respond to the commission's funding requests. He resigned on September 25, writing in a letter to Bush:\n\nJohnson recalled speaking with the president in January:\nSecretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, defended the administration's record, citing \"increased efforts in research, new therapies for those with H.I.V., and extensive health-care services\". Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton, then a candidate for the presidency, said: \"Mr. Johnson knows that this Administration has not done anything on AIDS. We've got a good AIDS Commission, good AIDS reports, and no action.\"\n\nIn February 1993, Johnson indicated a willingness to rejoin the commission after President Bill Clinton took office.\n\nThe commission published more than a dozen reports with detailed recommendations.\n\nAs required by statute, the commission its first major report called \"America Living with AIDS\" on September 26, 1991. Its overall assessment said: \n\nIts principal recommendations included:\n\nDr. James O. Mason, Assistant Secretary for Health of the Department of Health and Human Services, cited annual budget increases and said in reply:\nThe commission's final report, \"AIDS: An Expanding Tragedy\", appeared in June 1993 and consisted of just 15 pages plus appendices. Its preface said composing a final report was like \"trying to take a snapshot of a tidal way\" and continued: \nThe report saw some signs for hope in the Clinton administration's funding requests, but feared that \"the response to the epidemic is again tangled in politics\".\n\nThe commission ceased operations by law on September 3, 1993.\n\nIn her 2012 memoir, Mary Fisher assessed her experience:\nThe commission was succeeded by the Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49518685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49518685", "title": "National Kidney Foundation Singapore", "text": "National Kidney Foundation Singapore\n\nThe National Kidney Foundation Singapore (NKF) is a non-profit health organisation in Singapore. Its mission is to render services to kidney patients, encourage and promote renal research, as well as to carry out public education programs on kidney diseases. As of February 2016, NKF has 29 dialysis centres in Singapore.\n\nNKF was founded in the early 1960s, after nephrologist Prof. Khoo Oon Teik witnessed many people suffering from kidney failure, including his own brother, Reverend Khoo Oon Eng. During that time, about 200 Singaporeans were dying each year from kidney failure. As a result, Prof. Khoo was determined to set up a National Kidney Foundation to help needy kidney patients. NKF was inaugurated on 7 April 1969, on World Health Day, by President Yusof Ishak.\n\nIn September 1982, NKF officially opened its first dialysis centre at the Kwong Wai Shiu Hospital. However, due to insufficient resources, it could only admit few patients. NKF started building dialysis centres in the vacant flats of HDB estates to lower costs and increase accessibility to dialysis for kidney patients. In 1987, the NKF’s first satellite dialysis centre was established in Toa Payoh.\n\nIn 2001, a new building for NKF’s headquarters was commissioned on Kim Keat Road. Singapore Buddhist Welfare Services, the late Tay Choon Hye, the Shaw Foundation, Singapore Pools and the Lee Foundation contributed a total of $21 million to the cost of building the NKF Centre.\n\nIn 2002, the Shaw Foundation donated $4 million to open a Children’s Kidney Centre at the National University Hospital to support children with kidney diseases.\n\nIn July 2005, a new board and management team was formed for a leaner, cost-effective NKF, after former CEO, T.T Durai, and directors stepped down due to breach of fiduciary duties, among others.\n\nFollowing a recovery from the scandal, Chairman Gerard Ee, handed over the reins in 2012 to Koh Poh Tiong. In 2013, CEO Eunice Tay retired, and Edmund Kwok took over.\n\nOn 16 November 2016, the NKF board held a press conference announcing that Edmund Kwok was removed from his position as CEO, due to a police case involving Kwok and a NKF male employee.\n\nAside from providing dialysis treatment, NKF also focuses on kidney disease education and prevention, against as diabetes and hypertension, which are leading causes of kidney failure.\n\nThe Schools Outreach Programme teaches children about kidney functions, kidney failure, and how kidney patients cope with this chronic condition. The program includes visits to the Kidney Discovery Centre at NKF’s headquarters; school assembly talks, and health booths at schools; and the Kidney Health Education Bus, which has health screening stations.\n\nThe Little Champs and Young Champs Programmes aim to strengthen students’ leadership abilities and inspire them to make a difference to the community and in the lives of kidney patients.\n\n‘Healthy Mondays’ is a programme for adults. Introduced to organisations and corporations, it consists of health talks, health screenings and exercises to nurture healthy lifestyles for employees.\n\nNKF also works with local media, healthcare and social agencies, grass-roots organisations, and institutions to disseminate health messages.\n\nNKF also promotes Peritoneal Dialysis (PD) allowing kidney patients to have more flexibility and control of their lifestyle, by undergoing treatment at home. To encourage PD and build the confidence of patients undergoing this treatment, the NKF has a Comprehensive PD Community Support Programme where trained and experienced PD nurses work closely with the hospitals to support PD patients at home to help them start and stay well on PD.\n\nBesides providing dialysis, NKF has instituted patient welfare programs, helping patients cope with illness, aiding them with re-integrating into society, as well as supporting their families.\n\nIn November 2015, NKF launched the Patient Employment Rehabilitation Programme, to match jobless patients with suitable jobs, and hire some patients as staff.\n\nIn 2009, the Kidney Live Donor Support Programme was launched to provide financial assistance for needy live donors to ensure that costs is not an obstacle for the donor’s long-term medical follow-up.\n\nNKF partners with the Ministry of Health, other healthcare providers and the community, to increase awareness of kidney disease and prevention, promote kidney transplantation, and encourage home dialysis and to improve dialysis care.\n\n"}
{"id": "15129396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15129396", "title": "Naypyidaw Water Fountain Garden", "text": "Naypyidaw Water Fountain Garden\n\nThe Naypyidaw Water Fountain Garden () is a garden in Naypyidaw, Myanmar. The garden is situated near the Naypyidaw City Hall with a steel structure arch-way. Also included in the garden are a main pond with three fountains and 11 small ponds with 13 different fountains, a high clock tower, nine recreation centres, two small gardens, two stone gardens and ten feet wide buggy road and footpaths. The garden was set up near the Naypyidaw-Taungnyo Road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4947087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4947087", "title": "Nelaug (lake)", "text": "Nelaug (lake)\n\nNelaug is a lake in the municipalities of Froland and Åmli in Aust-Agder county, Norway. The lake is formed by a dam which regulates a hydroelectric power plant on the Nidelva river. The village of Nelaug is located near the dam in Froland municipality. The lake is located about south of the village of Åmli, about southeast of the village of Dølemo, and about north of Blakstad.\n\nThe Old Norse form of the name must have been \"Niðlaug\". The first element \"Nið\" is the old name of the river Nidelva and the last element is \"laug\" which means \"lake\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18208306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18208306", "title": "PatientsLikeMe", "text": "PatientsLikeMe\n\nPatientsLikeMe is a for profit patient network and real-time research platform. Through the network, patients connect with others who have the same disease or condition and track and share their own experiences with the goal to improve outcomes. In the process, they generate data about the real-world nature of disease. With over 600,000 members, PatientsLikeMe is a source for real-world disease information and its patient-generated data form the basis of more than 100 peer-reviewed scientific studies. PatientsLikeMe was inspired by the life experiences of Stephen Heywood, diagnosed in 1998 at the age of 29 with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or Lou Gehrig’s disease. The company was founded in 2004 by his brothers Jamie and Ben Heywood and long-time family friend Jeff Cole.\n\nAfter being diagnosed with ALS, Stephen's family founded a non-profit, ALS Therapy Development Institute, in an attempt to slow his disease and treat his symptoms. However, the slow pace of research and the trial-and-error approach was time-consuming and repetitive. They realized that Stephen’s experience was like that of other patients around the world who often have specific questions about their treatment options, and about what to expect. PatientsLikeMe helps patients connect with others who know firsthand what they are going through to share advice and resources. Through a health profile made up of structured and quantitative clinical reporting tools, members are able to monitor their health between doctor or hospital visits, document the severity of their symptoms, identify triggers, note how they are responding to new treatments, and track side effects. They have the opportunity to learn from the aggregated data of others with the same disease and see how they are doing in context with others. Members of the site use social tools such as forums, private messages, and profile comments to give and receive support from others, a support mechanism that has been shown to help improve their management and perceived control.\n\nPatientsLikeMe launched its first online community for ALS patients in 2006. From there, the company began adding other communities for other life-changing conditions, including multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson's disease, fibromyalgia, HIV, chronic fatigue syndrome, mood disorders, epilepsy, organ transplantation, progressive supranuclear palsy, multiple system atrophy, and Devic's disease (neuromyelitis optica). The company's approach was to read the scientific literature and listen to patients to identify outcome measures, symptoms, and treatments that were important to patients and could be accurately reported. For example, the development of the MS community involved the development of a new patient reported outcome measure, the MS Rating Scale (MSRS), to ensure patients could accurately determine how their condition was progressing over time. However, building one community at a time was a slow process and the company risked being overly narrow in focus while excluding more than 5,000 patients who had requested new communities as of December 2010.\n\nIn April 2011, the company expanded its scope and opened its doors to any patient with any condition. Today the website covers more than 2,700 health conditions, with new members joining daily from the US and other countries around the world. Of note are the more than 10,000 ALS members, who have helped make PatientsLikeMe’s flagship community the largest online population of ALS patients in the world. In the United States, approximately 10 percent of newly diagnosed ALS patients register on the site each month, and 2 percent of all multiple sclerosis patients in the US participate in the community.\n\nIn 2017, PatientsLikeMe entered into a partnership with iCarbonX to apply next generation biological measures and machine learning to understand more about the basis of human health and disease. iCarbonX, founded in 2015 by renowned genomicist Jun Wang, took an equity position in PatientsLikeMe and is providing multi-omics characterization services to the company.\n\nThe partnership makes PatientsLikeMe part of iCarbonX’s Digital Life Alliance, an ecosystem of leading health technology and application companies that are collaborating to digitize and analyze all aspects of life. The iCarbonX ecosystem has invested a total of nearly $400 million in the initial companies that form the alliance: PatientsLikeMe, SomaLogic, HealthTell, AOBiome, GALT, Imagu and Robustnique. The alliance’s ultimate aim is to merge comprehensive biological and patient-generated data with artificial intelligence technology to help people better understand the medical, behavioral and environmental factors in their lives that may accelerate or mitigate disease, and optimize health.\n\nPatientsLikeMe allows members to input real-world data on their conditions, treatment history, side effects, hospitalizations, symptoms, disease-specific functional scores, weight, mood, quality of life and more on an ongoing basis. The result is a detailed longitudinal record – organized into charts and graphs – that allows patients to gain insight and identify patterns. The data-sharing platform is designed to help patients answer the question: “Given my status, what is the best outcome I can hope to achieve, and how do I get there?”. Answers come in the form of shared longitudinal data from other patients with the same condition(s), thus allowing members to place their experiences in context and see what treatments have helped other patients like them. Some communities, such as ALS, feature visual aids such as percentile curves on the patient profile, so that an individual user can see whether their rate of progression is fast, slow, or about average. A seizure tracker for patients with epilepsy helps identify triggers such as missed medication doses, sleep deprivation, or alcohol use, and a \"mood map\" for patients with mood disorders helps to show different factors underlying their condition such as emotional control, anxiety, or external stress while all users can look for patterns in their daily health status such as day of the week or time of day.\n\nThree studies have been published suggesting that use of the platform improves patient outcomes. A survey conducted in 2010 amongst patients with ALS, MS, Parkinson's disease, HIV, fibromyalgia, and mood disorders found that 72% of users had found the site helpful in learning about a symptom they had experienced, 57% for understanding the side effects of a treatment, 42% in helping them to find another patient like them, amongst others. A second study conducted in epilepsy found that in addition to the earlier benefits reported, patients with epilepsy reported a better understanding of their symptoms (59%), seizures (58%), and symptoms or treatments (55%). The number of benefits they reported from using the site was strongly associated with the number of social connections they made with other members, dubbed the \"dose effect curve of friendship\". Finally, a third study conducted with the US Department of Veteran Affairs and the University of California at San Francisco reported statistically significant improvements in validated measures of self-management and self-efficacy in veterans with epilepsy as a result of engaging with the site for a period of six weeks.\n\nOne of the ways in which the site makes revenue is by conducting scientific research studies for pharmaceutical companies, typically with an emphasis on issues that are important to both patients and industry. For example, in 2011 a partnership with Novartis studied the barriers faced by people with multiple sclerosis in being adherent to taking their medication, which led to the development of an MS Treatment Adherence Questionnaire (MS-TAQ) which was made available to help patients and their doctors identify and address these issues through coping strategies and enhanced communication. A 2013 collaboration with UCB explored factors underlying quality of life in epilepsy and identified a number of issues beyond the occurrence of seizures as being important, including symptoms such as problems concentrating, depression, memory problems, and treatment side effects. In 2015 PatientsLikeMe worked with researchers at Genentech on a study inviting potential clinical trial participants to review study protocols in order to provide input and feedback to make the study more appealing. A 2016 collaboration with Novartis published in Nature Biotechnology and Value in Health explored ways in which patients could provide systematic input into guiding drug development to help make it more patient-centered. A study published with AstraZeneca in 2016 sought to understand the treatment expectations of women living with ovarian cancer and identified a shift from surviving with the condition to living with it. Such research helps to improve understanding of disease, identify new approaches to management, and generate ideas to improve the products and services developed by pharmaceutical companies.\n\nFollowing the award in 2013 and 2014 of $4.5m in grants from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the company developed an online tool called the Open Research Exchange (ORE) that allowed for the rapid creation, prototyping, testing, and validation of patient reported outcome measures, questionnaires that can establish the impact of symptoms and disease on patients. During the period of the grant, a number of academic collaborators were invited to develop measures on the platform including measures of treatment burden, hypertension management, feelings of satiety in diabetes and treatment burden in chronic illness. The tool offers researchers the ability to rapidly get input from large numbers of patients in a matter of weeks or months as opposed to much slower forms of research which can take years to complete. A number of tools such as the Treatment Burden Questionnaire and the Suicide Ideation and Behavior Assessment Tool (SIBAT) have been published in the scientific literature for use by researchers and an editorial co-authored with industry leaders and a researcher at the FDA outlined ways in which PROs developed on the ORE could be used for the development of new medicines. In addition to the traditional scientist-lead instruments, one instrument was developed by a person living with MS. A 2016 RWJF grant for $900,000 charters PatientsLikeMe to work with the National Quality Forum to develop new measures for healthcare performance.\n\nA key differentiator of the site from more traditional online support groups, message boards, social media sites and list-serves is the emphasis on structured quantitative data which can be aggregated and used for research purposes. This has permitted PatientsLikeMe's research team to author more than 100 peer-reviewed published scientific articles in collaboration with academic and commercial partners in leading journals such as the BMJ, Nature Biotechnology, and Neurology. In addition, PatientsLikeMe has been mentioned by others in more than 3,000 published articles in the scientific literature and has been featured as a business case study by the Harvard Business Review. The company has also invited researchers to become embedded with the company such as an in-depth study explaining the organization of the platform and highlighting some of the challenges that social media and patient-centred research models are facing.\n\nWherever possible, PatientsLikeMe has a policy of publishing its research output in open access form, so that patients, clinicians, and researchers can easily access their scientific output. Instruments and questionnaires developed on PatientsLikeMe such as the MS Rating Scale or MS Treatment Adherence Questionnaire are licensed under Creative Commons so that they can be used freely by the community without complex or costly licensing requirements. The company also provides patients that take part in its studies with \"givebacks\" which concisely and rapidly give them feedback in lay language as to the results of research in which they have participated so they can understand how donating their data has been useful for research.\n\nThe company's best known scientific endeavor relates to an online refutation of a clinical trial in ALS. In 2008, a small Italian study was published suggesting that lithium carbonate could slow the progression of ALS. In response, hundreds of members of PatientsLikeMe with the disease began taking the drug off-label. Using the self-reported data of 348 ALS patients and taking just nine months to complete, PatientsLikeMe conducted a study which demonstrated that lithium did not slow the progress of the disease. The team suggested that online collection of patient self-report data was no substitute for randomized placebo-controlled trials, but it might be a useful new form of clinical research in certain circumstances. A later study described how patients attempted to use the same tools to unblind clinical trials in which they were enrolled to try and see whether or not the experimental drugs they were taking were working. A 2016 collaboration with Dr Rick Bedlack of the Duke ALS Clinic aims to overcome some of the burden of traditional ALS trials by allowing patients to take part in a clinical trial of a nutritional supplement, Lunasin, from their own home with just two clinic visits rather than regular monthly appointments.\n\nDescribing itself “a not just for profit,” PatientsLikeMe does not allow advertising on its site but rather keeps the site free for users by selling research services as well as aggregated, de-identified data to its partners, including pharmaceutical companies and medical device makers. Typical commercial services include helping to optimize the designs of clinical trial protocols, developing new patient reported outcomes, or identifying the severity of symptoms in specific patient groups. The company enforces transparency about who uses the data and partners have included most of the largest pharmaceutical companies worldwide such as UCB, Novartis, Sanofi, Avanir Pharmaceuticals and Acorda Therapeutics.\n\nIn 2007 the company was named as one of the \"15 Companies that Will Change the World\" by Business 2.0 and CNN Money as well as added to the list of \"Top Health IT Innovators\" by FierceHealthIT . In 2008 PatientsLikeMe received the Prix Ars Electronica Award of Distinction and in March featured in a New York Times Magazine article entitled \"Practicing Patients\", by Thomas Goetz, who later went on to feature the site in his book \"The Decision Tree\". Later in 2008 a television segment with Sanjay Gupta aired on the CBS Evening News. Fast Company (magazine)'s 2010 list of Most Innovative Companies ranked PatientsLikeMe at #23. A May 2010 New York Times article entitled \"When Patients Meet Online”, outlined the potential for advances for research. In 2012 Sanjay Gupta featured a research project conducted in collaboration with PatientsLikeMe on CNN's The Next List, profiling collaborator Dr Max Little. In January 2013, the company featured as a clue on Jeopardy! - \"A health data-sharing platform, patientslikeme.com, was founded by 3 engineers from this Boston-area university, initially\"; the correct answer, provided by Helen Juvonen, was MIT. In 2016, co-founders Jamie and Ben Heywood were awarded the 2016 Humanitarian Award by the International Alliance of ALS/MND Associations. In 2017, PatientsLikeMe was named by Fast Company as one of the Top 10 Most Innovative Companies in Biotech.\n\n"}
{"id": "4168346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4168346", "title": "Pot-in-pot refrigerator", "text": "Pot-in-pot refrigerator\n\nA pot-in-pot refrigerator, clay pot cooler or zeer () is an evaporative cooling refrigeration device which does not use electricity. It uses a porous outer earthenware pot (lined with wet sand) containing an inner pot (which can be glazed to prevent penetration by the liquid) within which the food is placed. The evaporation of the outer liquid draws heat from the inner pot. The device can cool any substance, and requires only a flow of relatively dry air and a source of water.\n\nThere is some evidence that evaporative cooling was used as early as the Old Kingdom of Egypt, around 2500 B.C. Frescos show slaves fanning water jars, which would increase air flow around the porous jars and aid evaporation, cooling the contents. These jars exist even today and are called \"zeer\", hence the name of the pot cooler.\n\nMany earthenware pots were discovered in Indus Valley Civilization around 3000 BC which were probably used for storing as well as cooling water similar to the present-day ghara and matki used in India and Pakistan.\n\nDespite being developed in Northern Africa, the technology appears to have been forgotten with the advent of modern electrical refrigerators. However, in the Indian Subcontinent, ghara, matka and surahi, which are different types of earthenware water pots are used to cool water. In Spain, \"botijos\" are popular. A botijo is a porous clay container used to keep and to cool water; they have been in use for centuries, and are still relatively widespread. Botijos are favored most by the low Mediterranean climate; locally, the cooling effect is known as \"botijo effect\".\n\nIn the 1890s gold miners in Australia developed the Coolgardie safe, based on the same principles.\n\nIn rural northern Nigeria in the 1990s Mohamed Bah Abba developed the Pot-in-Pot Preservation Cooling System, consisting of a small earthenware pot placed inside a larger one, and the space between the two filled with moist sand. The inner pot is filled with fruit, vegetables or soft drinks and covered with a wet cloth.\n\nAbba, who hails from a family of potmakers, tapped into the large unemployed local workforce and hired skilled pot makers to mass-produce the first batch of 5,000 Pot-in-Pots. He received the Rolex Award for Enterprise in 2001 and used his $75,000 award to make the invention available throughout Nigeria. Abba devised an educational campaign tailored to village life and the illiterate population featuring a video-recorded play by local actors to dramatise the benefits of the desert refrigerator. The pots sell at 40 US cents a pair.\n\nAfter the millennium several international NGOs started to work on the dissemination of this technology in various African countries: Practical Action in Sudan and Humanity first in Gambia and Movement e.V. in Burkina Faso.\n\nExtensive research has also been done in Mali by D-Lab in partnership with World Vegetable Center. \n\nA \"zeer\" is constructed by placing a clay pot within a larger clay pot with wet sand in between the pots and a wet cloth on top.\n\nThe device cools as the water evaporates, allowing refrigeration in hot, dry climate. It must be placed in a dry, ventilated space for the water to evaporate effectively towards the outside. Evaporative coolers tend to perform poorly or not at all in climates with high ambient humidity, since the water is not able to evaporate well under these conditions.\n\nIf there is an impermeable separation layer between the food and the porous pots, undrinkable water such as seawater can be used to drive the cooling process, without contaminating the food. This is useful in arid locations near the ocean where drinkable water is a limited commodity, and can be accomplished by using a pot that has waterproof glaze or cement applied to the inner wall where the food is stored.\n\nExtended operation is possible if the pots are able to draw water from a storage container, such as an inverted airtight jar, or if the pots are placed in a shallow pool of water. A strap can be used to tie the inner pot down instead of using sand to prevent it from floating.\n\nAlternatives to the Pot-in-Pot construction include various versions of a simple Pot-in-Dish. For larger storage capacity, evaporative cooling chambers (ECCs) can be constructed from a double walled brick structure with a straw and wood cover. The same basic operating principles apply. Detailed information on construction materials and methods can be found in the D-Lab best practices guide. \n\nSeveral key considerations are important for determining if an evaporative cooling device will provide effective cooling and storage. ECCs and clay pot coolers provide the most benefits when they are used in low humidity climates (less than 40% relative humidity), the temperature is relatively hot (maximum daily temperature greater than 25 °C), water is available to add to the device between one and three times per day, and the device can be located in a shady and well-ventilated area. If any of these key criteria cannot be met at the time when improved vegetable storage is needed, then ECCs or clay pot coolers may not provide sufficient benefits to justify their use. \n\nThe effectiveness of evaporative cooling varies with the temperature, humidity and airflow. Given a constant flow of cool dry air, evaporative cooling can achieve temperatures as low as the wet bulb temperature, the 100% humidity condition at the given temperature. Documented tables show the minimum temperature that can be achieved at different starting temperatures and percent humidities.\n\nTo determine the effectiveness of evaporative cooling chambers for specific uses it is helpful to evaluate the following questions:\n\nWhat type of vegetables or other products are in need of improved storage?\n\nECCs or clay pot coolers provide benefits if post-harvest vegetable spoilage is the result of exposure to high temperatures, low humidity, animals, or insects. Some examples of vegetables that are particularly vulnerable to these conditions include eggplants, tomatoes, leafy greens, peppers, and okra. See the “Conclusions and Additional Resources” section of the Best Practices Guide for a more complete list of vegetables that can benefit from storage in an evaporative cooling device. Non- electric evaporative cooling devices – such as ECCs and clay pot coolers – are not suitable for items that require sustained temperatures below 20 °C (medicine, meat, and dairy products) or foods that require a low humidity environment (onions, coffee, garlic, millet, and other grains).\n\nWhat volume of vegetables needs to be stored at any one time?\n\nIt is necessary to estimate the volume of vegetables in need of improved storage at any given time to determine the appropriate size of the evaporative cooling device. If the vegetables can fit into a clay pot with a capacity of 150 liters or less, then a clay pot cooler is most appropriate. Individuals or groups that need to store larger amounts of vegetables can consider an ECC. A brick ECC can be designed to accommodate the storage volumes between roughly 500 and 5,000 liters, see the “Construction of Evaporative Cooling Chambers” section of the Best Practices Guide. \n\nHow often is improved vegetable storage needed?\n\nVariations in the need for improved vegetable storage can arise due to seasonal growing and harvest cycles, vegetable production surpluses relative to local demand, and climate variations. It is important to determine if proper operating conditions exist for evaporative cooling to effectively provide benefits during the time when vegetable storage is needed, and if the need for improved vegetable storage is frequent enough that the value an ECC or clay pot cooler can provide is greater than its cost.\n\nPot-in-pot refrigeration has had multiple positive impacts on the population that uses them beyond the simple ability to keep food fresh for longer periods of time and decreasing instances of food-related disease.\n\n\nA \"zeer\" costs about 150 naira (approximately in 2011) to make in Nigeria, and they sell for 180-200 naira ( to in 2011).\n\n\nPeople\n\n"}
{"id": "4397030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4397030", "title": "PowerBar", "text": "PowerBar\n\nPowerBar, Inc. is an American maker of energy bars and other related products including sports drinks, gels, and the \"Pria\" bars targeted at women.\n\nWith Mike McCollum, the PowerBar company was founded by Brian Maxwell, a Canadian athlete and entrepreneur and Maxwell's girlfriend, Jennifer Biddulph, a nutritionist and distance runner who later became his wife, in their kitchen. They used $55,000 in cash to launch the company in 1986 in Berkeley, California. This was the first \"energy bar\" for use during competition by endurance athletes, such as ultra marathoners, and cyclists. They eventually acquired a headquarters building in downtown Berkeley.\n\nThe company eventually reached $150 million in sales before being purchased by Nestlé in 2000 for $375 million. In February 2007, PowerBar moved its headquarters from Berkeley, California to the Nestlé headquarters in Glendale, California. With the move came the hiring of an entirely new marketing team.\n\nOn February 3, 2014, Post Holdings announced it had reached an agreement to acquire PowerBar, Musashi and related worldwide assets from Nestlé.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37946232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37946232", "title": "Pre-eruption guidance", "text": "Pre-eruption guidance\n\nPre-eruption guidance is an orthodontic treatment method that allows for expansion of existing erupting teeth long before they appear in the mouth. The use off pre-eruption guidance appliances and the timing of extractions of certain deciduous teeth aligns the teeth naturally as opposed to orthodontic mechanical movement of permanent teeth into alignment after they have erupted. Research shows that pre-eruption guidance produces far more stable tooth alignment than alternative treatments.\n\nAs defined by the American Dental Association and The American Association of Orthodontists, pre-eruption guidance therapy is a treatment method instituted with the use of bimaxillary bilateral removable space maintainers and the removal of the maxillary right and left deciduous cuspids [baby teeth] at very specific times to allow for a more optimal eruption pattern for permanent teeth to enter the mouth. An integral part of the success of this treatment is the timely removal of certain deciduous teeth.\n\nPre-eruption guidance is distinctive because unlike other approaches, a patients' treatment results are achieved physiologically through muscle movements and removable functional spacer maintainers. instead of mechanically through dental braces. This alleviates the need for braces to mechanically align or essentially repair the effects of mature teeth that erupted misaligned and crowded.\n\nThis form of early, interceptive orthodontic treatment can be started on certain types of tooth problems before all teeth have erupted. Pre-eruption guidance treatment is usually begun after the four permanent upper and lower front teeth have erupted (approximately age seven). The goal of this treatment for a child of that age is to normalize and naturalize the dentition and then to allow the daily use of durable orthodontic retainers and the patient’s natural muscle development to guide future erupting teeth into an optimal position in the mouth over time.\n\nIn some cases a second phase of treatment is necessary. This additional phase is significantly shorter and can be completed by the time patients who are not undergoing pre-eruption guidance are first beginning their treatments.\n\nCases in which the pre-eruption guidance process would be beneficial include improvement of dental alignment and correction of a functional occlusion (severe deep bite, severe overjet, constricted maxillary width, blocked out maxillary cuspids, lower crowding).\n\nOne benefit of the pre-eruption guidance approach is not having to surgically remove any of the patient’s permanent teeth. Additionally, patients undergoing pre-eruption guidance therapy often do not require a later phase of treatment involving application of fixed braces or permanent tooth extractions performed by an oral surgeon. This preventive treatment process may ensure a patient’s teeth will erupt in a more ideal position and maintain their erupted position for the rest of the patients life. However, like any orthodontic treatment, it is heavily dependent on the patients cooperation and support to succeed.\n\nDue to the method’s reliance on achieving results working with the patient’s own physiology to align their teeth, practitioners help the patients achieve proper alignment for minimal cost. Patients may also avoid more expensive, later staged treatments involving permanent tooth extractions, longer time with fixed appliances, and additional visits to the orthodontist.\n\nwww.aapd.org/media/Policies_Guidelines/G_Periodicity.pdf<br>\nMew JRC 2007. Facial Changes in Identical Twins Treated by Different Orthodontic Techniques. The World Journal of Orthodontics 8: 174-188. https://web.archive.org/web/20130628102954/http://www.facefocused.com/wjarticle.html\n"}
{"id": "41741013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41741013", "title": "Pulp capping", "text": "Pulp capping\n\nPulp capping is a technique used in dental restorations to prevent the dental pulp from necrosis, after being exposed, or nearly exposed during a cavity preparation. When dental caries is removed from a tooth, all or most of the infected and softened enamel and dentin are removed. This can lead to the pulp of the tooth either being exposed or nearly exposed which causes pulpitis (inflammation). Pulpitis, in turn, can become irreversible, leading to pain and pulp necrosis, and necessitating either root canal treatment or extraction. The ultimate goal of pulp capping or stepwise caries removal is to protect a healthy dental pulp and avoid the need for root canal therapy.\n\nTo prevent the pulp from deteriorating when a dental restoration gets near the pulp, the dentist will place a small amount of a sedative dressing, such as calcium hydroxide or MTA. These materials, protect the pulp from noxious agents (heat, cold, bacteria) and stimulate the cell-rich zone of the pulp to lay down a bridge of reparative dentin. Dentin formation usually starts within 30 days of the pulp capping (there can be a delay in onset of dentin formation if the odontoblasts of the pulp are injured during cavity removal) and is largely completed by 130 days.\n\nTwo different types of pulp cap are distinguished. In \"direct pulp capping\", the protective dressing is placed directly over an exposed pulp; and in \"indirect pulp capping\", a thin layer of softened dentin, that if removed would expose the pulp, is left in place and the protective dressing is placed on top. A direct pulp cap is a one-stage procedure, whereas a stepwise caries removal is a two-stage procedure over about six months.\n\nThis technique is used when a pulpal exposure occurs, either due to caries extending to the pulp chamber, or accidentally, during caries removal. It is only feasible if the exposure is made through non infected dentin and there is no recent history of spontaneous pain (i.e. irreversible pulpitis) and a bacteria-tight seal can be applied. Once the exposure is made, the tooth is isolated from saliva to prevent contamination by use of a dental dam, if it was not already in place. The tooth is then washed and dried, and the protective material placed, followed finally by a dental restoration which gives a bacteria-tight seal to prevent infection. Since pulp capping is not always successful in maintaining the vitality of the pulp, the dentist will usually keep the status of the tooth under review for about 1 year after the procedure.\n\n\n\nIn 1938, Bodecker introduced the Stepwise Caries Excavation (SWE) Technique for treatment of teeth with deep caries for preservation of Pulp vitality. \nThis technique is used when most of the decay has been removed from a deep cavity, but some softened dentin and decay remains over the pulp chamber that if removed would expose the pulp and trigger irreversible pulpitis. Instead, the dentist intentionally leaves the softened dentin/decay in place, and uses a layer of protective temporary material which promotes remineralization of the softened dentin over the pulp and the laying down of new layers of tertiary dentin in the pulp chamber.\nThe color of the carious lesion changes from light brown to dark brown, the consistency goes from soft and wet to hard and dry so that Streptococcus Mutans and Lactobacilli have been significantly reduced to a limited number or even zero viable organisms and the radiographs show no change or even a decrease in the radiolucent zone. A temporary filling is used to keep the material in place, and about 6 months later, the cavity is re-opened and hopefully there is now enough sound dentin over the pulp (a \"dentin bridge\") that any residual softened dentin can be removed and a permanent filling can be placed. This method is also called \"stepwise caries removal.\"\nThe difficulty with this technique is estimating how rapid the carious process has been,how much tertiary dentine has been formed and knowing exactly when to stop excavating to avoid pulp exposure.\n\nThe following materials have been studied as potential materials for direct pulp capping. However, calcium hydroxide and mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) are the preferred material of choice in clinical practice due to their favourable outcome.\n\nZinc Oxide Eugenol (ZOE) is a commonly used material in dentistry. The use of ZOE as a pulp capping material remains controversial. This is due to Eugenol, being cytotoxic to the pulp are present in large quantity in this formulation. Also due to its nature of non-adhesive, it leads to poor coronal seal hence increases micro-leakage. Studies have demonstrated unfavourable results for ZOE when compared to calcium hydroxide as a direct pulp capping material as it causes pulpal necrosis.\n\nBoth Glass Ionomer (GI) and Resin Modified Glass Ionomer (RMGIC) has been widely used as a lining or base material for deep cavities where pulp is in close proximity. This is due to its superior properties of good biocompatibility and adhesive nature, providing coronal seal to prevent bacteria infiltration. However, they are not a material of choice for direct pulp capping. When the use of RMGIC and calcium hydroxide has been studied as direct pulp capping agents, RMGIC has demonstrated increase in chronic inflammation in pulpal tissues and lack of reparative dentine bridge formation.\n\nMaterials that fall under this category include 4-META-MMA-TBB adhesives and hybridizing dentine bonding agents. The idea of using adhesive materials for direct pulp capping has been explored two decades ago. Studies have demonstrated that it encourages bleeding due to its vasodilating properties hence impairing polymerisation of the material, affecting its ability to provide a coronal seal when used as a pulp capping agent. In addition, the material triggers chronic inflammation even without the presence of bacteria makes it an unfavourable condition for pulp healing to take place. Most importantly, its toxicity to human pulp cells once again makes it an unacceptable material of choice.\n\nCalcium hydroxide (CaOH) is an organo-metallic cement that was introduced into dentistry in the early twentieth century and there have since been many advantages to this material described in much of the available literature. CaOH has a high antimicrobial activity which has been shown to be outstanding. In one experiment conducted by Stuart et al. (1991), bacteria-inoculated root canals of extracted human teeth were treated with CaOH for 1 hour against a control group with no treatment and the results yielded 64-100% reductions in all viable bacteria. CaOH also has a high pH and high solubility, thus it readily leaches into the surrounding tissues. This alkaline environment created around the cement has been suggested to give beneficial irritancy to pulpal tissues and stimulates dentine regeneration. One study further demonstrated that CaOH causes release of growth factors TGF-B1 and bioactive molecules from the dentine matrix which induces the formation of dentine bridges.\n\nCaOH does however have significant disadvantages. The set cement has low compressive strength and cannot withstand or support condensation of a restoration. It is thus good practice to place a stronger separate lining material (e.g. glass ionomer or resin-modified glass ionomer) over CaOH before packing the final restorative material. CaOH cement is not adhesive to tooth tissues and thus does not provide a coronal seal. In pulp perfusion studies, CaOH has shown to insufficiently seal all dentinal tubules, and presence of tunnel defects (patent communications within reparative dentine connecting pulp and exposure sites) indicate a potential for microleakage when CaOH is used. It is suggested that an adhesive coronal restoration be used above the CaOH lining to provide adequate coronal seal. \nBecause of its many advantageous properties and long-standing success in clinical use, it has been used as a control material in multiple experiments with pulp capping agents over the years and is considered the gold standard dental material for direct pulp capping to date.\n\nMineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) is a recent development of the 1990s initially as a root canal sealer but has seen increased interest in its use as a direct pulp capping material. The material comprises a blend of tricalcium silicate, dicalcium silicate and tricalcium aluminate; bismuth oxide is added to give the cement radiopaque properties to aid radiological investigation. MTA has been shown to produce CaOH as a hydration product and maintains an extended duration of high pH in lab conditions. Similar to CaOH, this alkalinity potentially provides beneficial irritancy and stimulates dentine repair and regeneration. MTA has also demonstrated reliable and favourable healing outcomes on human teeth when used as a pulp cap on teeth diagnosed as nothing more severe than reversible pulpitis. There is also less coronal microleakage of MTA in one experiment comparing it to amalgam thus suggesting some tooth adhesion properties. MTA also comes in white and grey preparations which may aid visual identification clinically. \nDisadvantages have also been described for MTA. Grey MTA preparations can potentially cause tooth discolouration. MTA also takes a long time (up to 2 hours 45 minutes) to set completely thus preventing immediate restoration placement without mechanical disruption of the underlying MTA. It has been suggested that a pulp capped with MTA should be temporised to allow for the complete setting of MTA, and the patient to present at a second visit for placement of the permanent restoration. MTA also has for difficult handling properties and is a very expensive material, thus is less cost effective as compared to CaOH.\n\nAlthough MTA shows great promise which is possibly attributed to its adhesive properties and ability to act as a source of CaOH release, the available literature and experimental studies of MTA is limited due to its recency. Studies that compare pulp capping abilities of MTA to CaOH in human teeth yielded generally equal and similarly successful healing outcomes at a histological level from both materials.\n\nThere have been several studies conducted on the success rates of direct and indirect pulp capping using a range of different materials. One study of indirect pulp capping recorded success rates of 98.3% and 95% using bioactive tricalcium silicate [Ca3SiO5]-based dentin substitute and light-activated calcium hydroxide [CA(OH)2]-based liner respectively. These results show no significant difference, nor do the results from an indirect pulp capping experiment comparing calcium silicate cement (Biodentine) and glass ionomer cement, which had clinical success rates of 83.3%. A further study testing medical Portland cement, Mineral Trioxide Aggregate (MTA) and calcium hydroxide in indirect pulp treatment found varying success rates of 73%-93%. This study concluded that indirect pulp capping had a success rate of 90.3% regardless of which material was used but stated that it is preferable to use non-resorbing materials where possible.\n\nSimilar studies have been conducted of direct pulp capping, with one study comparing ProRoot Mineral Trioxide Aggregate (MTA) and Biodentine which found success rates of 92.6% and 96.4% respectively. This study was conducted on 6-18 year old patients, while a comparable study conducted on mature permanent teeth found success rates of 84.6% using MTA and 92.3% using Biodentine. Calcium hydroxide has also been tested on its use in indirect pulp capping and was found to have a success rate of 77.6%, compared to a success rate of 85.9% for MTA in another study.\n\nA systematic review attempted to compare success rates of direct pulp capping and indirect pulp capping and found that indirect pulp capping had a higher level of success but found a low quality of evidence in studies on direct pulp capping. More research will be needed to provide a comprehensive answer.\n\n"}
{"id": "25221932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25221932", "title": "Referral (medicine)", "text": "Referral (medicine)\n\nIn medicine, referral is the transfer of care for a patient from one clinician or clinic to another by request.\n\nTertiary care is usually done by referral from primary or secondary medical care personnel.\n\nIn the field of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), referral also means the informing of a partner of a patient diagnosed STD of the potential exposure. \"Patient referral\" is where patients directly inform their partners of their exposure to infection. An alternative is \"provider referral\", where trained health department personnel locate partners on the basis of\nthe names, descriptions, and addresses provided by the patient to inform the partner.\n"}
{"id": "11483483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11483483", "title": "Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program", "text": "Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program\n\nRevised National Tuberculosis Control Program (RNTCP) is the state-run tuberculosis (TB) control initiative of the Government of India. As per the National Strategic Plan 2012–17, the program has a vision of achieving a \"TB free India\", and aims to achieve Universal Access to TB control services. The program provides, various free of cost, quality tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment services across the country through the government health system. It seeks to employ the WHO recommended tuberculosis control strategy, DOTS(Directly Observed Treatment, Short Course), to the Indian scenario.\n\nIndia has had an ongoing National TB Program (NTP) since 1962.\n\nIn order to overcome these lacunae, the Government decided to give a new thrust to TB control activities by revitalising the NTP, with assistance from international agencies, in 1993. The Revised National TB Control Programme (RNTCP) thus formulated, adopted the internationally recommended Directly Observed Treatment Short-course (DOTS) strategy, as the most systematic and cost-effective approach to revitalise the TB control programme in India. Political and administrative commitment, to ensure the provision of organised and comprehensive TB control services was obtained. Adoption of smear microscopy for reliable and early diagnosis was introduced in a decentralized manner in the general health services. DOTS was adopted as a strategy for provision of treatment to increase the treatment completion rates. Supply of drugs was also strengthened to provide assured supply of drugs to meet the requirements of the system.\n\nLarge-scale implementation of the RNTCP began in late 1998.\n\nExpansion of the programme was undertaken in a phased manner with rigid appraisals of the districts prior to starting service delivery. The initial 5-year project plan was to implement the RNTCP in 102 districts of the country and strengthen another 203 Short Course Chemotherapy (SCC) districts for introduction of the revised strategy at a later stage.\n\nThe Government of India took up the massive challenge of nationwide expansion of the RNTCP and covering the whole country under RNTCP by the year 2005, and to reach the global targets for TB control on case detection and treatment success. The structural arrangements for funds transfer and to account for the resources deployed were developed and thus the formation of the State and District TB Control Societies was under- taken. The systems were further strengthened and the programme was scaled up for national coverage in 2005.\n\nThis was followed up with RNTCP Phase II, developed based on the lessons learnt from the implementation of the programme over a 12-year period. The design of the RNTCP II remained almost the same as that of RNTCP I but additional requirements of quality assured diagnosis and treatment were built in through schemes to increase the participation of private sector providers and also inclusion of DOTS+ for MDR TB and also offering treatment for XDR TB. Systematic research and evidence building to inform the programme for better de- sign was also included as an important component. The Advocacy, Communication and Social Mobilization were also addressed in the design. The challenges imposed by the structures under NRHM were also taken into account.\nIndia achieved country wide coverage under RNTCP in March 2006.\n\nThe RNTCP was built on the infrastructure and systems built through the NTP. Major additions to the RNTCP, over and above the structures established under the NTP, was the establishment of a sub-district supervisory unit, known as a TB Unit, with dedicated RNTCP supervisors posted, and decentralization of both diagnostic and treatment services, with treatment given under the support of DOT (directly observed treatment) providers.\n\nNIKSHAY, the web based reporting for TB programme has been another notable achievement initiated in 2012 and has enabled capture and transfer of individual patient data from the remotest health institutions of the country.\n\nThe program initially adopted the Directly observed treatment, short-course strategy which consisted of the five components of strong political will and administrative commitment, diagnosis by quality assured sputum smear microscopy, uninterrupted supply of quality assured Short Course chemotherapy drugs, Directly Observed Treatment (DOT) and systematic monitoring and Accountability. The DOTS strategy achieved and sustained the target detection rate of 70% of all estimated cases and a cure rate of 85% in new cases and led to the decrease in incidence of TB in the country.\n\nWith progress in achieving objectives outlined in the DOTS Strategy of the 11th Five year Plan, the program defined the new targets of Universal Access to TB care. Under the 12th Five Year Plan of Government of India as the National Strategic Plan for 2012–17. The plan hopes to achieve detection of at-least 90% the total estimated cases and a cure rate of 90% in new and 85% in re-treatment cases. Following are the key components:\n\nCase finding and diagnostics:\nPatient friendly treatment services:\n\nScale-up of Programmatic Management of Drug Resistant TB:\n\nScale-up of joint TB-HIV collaborative activities:\n\nIntegration with health systems:\n\nControl TB: compared to today's activities, success will:\n\nDiagnosis is made primarily based on sputum smear examination. X-rays play a secondary role in the standard diagnostic algorithm for pulmonary tuberculosis\n\nSputum smear microscopy, using the Ziehl-Neelsen staining technique, is employed as the standard case-finding tool. Two sputum samples are collected over two days (as spot-morning/morning-spot) from chest symptomatics (patients with presenting with a history of cough for two weeks or more) to arrive at a diagnosis. In addition to the test's high specificity, the use of two samples ensures that the diagnostic procedure has a high (>99%) test sensitivity as well.\n\nAs a national health program, RNTCP pays more attention to the sputum-positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients (who are likely to spread the disease in the community) than people with other, non-pulmonary forms of the disease.\n\nBased on results from a recent study, RNTCP has issued guidelines to states on daily treatment for tuberculosis. The daily regimen will replace the existing alternate day (thrice weekly) regimen from January - February 2016 in selected states. The daily regimen has shown to be effective in reducing relapse rates and drug-resistance.\n\nStandardized treatment regimens are one of the pillars of the DOTS strategy. Isoniazid, Rifampicin, Pyrazinamide, Ethambutol, and Streptomycin are the primary antitubercular drugs used. Most DOTS regimens have thrice-weekly schedules and typically last for six to nine months, with an initial intensive phase and a continuation phase.\n\nBased on the nature/severity of the disease and the patient's exposure to previous anti-tubercular treatments, RNTCP classifies tuberculosis patients into two treatment categories.\nH: Isoniazid (300 mg), R: Rifampicin (450 mg), Z: Pyrazinamide (1500 mg), E: Ethambutol (1200 mg), S: Streptomycin (750 mg)\n\n\nNotes\n\n\n\n\nIn India a sizable proportion of the people with symptoms suggestive of pulmonary tuberculosis approach the private sector for their immediate health care needs. There is need for regularizing the varied anti-tubercular treatment regimens used by general practitioners and other private sector players. The treatment carried out by the private practitioners vary from that of the RNTCP treatment. Once treatment is started in the usual way for the private sector, it is difficult for the patient to change to the RNTCP panel. Studies have shown that faulty anti-TB prescriptions in the private sector in India ranges from 50% to 100% and this is a matter of concern for the healthcare services in TB currently being provided by the largely unregulated private sector in India.\n\nIn the first phase of RNTCP (1998–2005), the programme’s focus was on ensuring expansion of quality DOTS services to the entire country. The future holds a different set of challenges including MDR TB and HIV/TB\n\nThe RNTCP has now entered its second phase, approved for a period of five years from October 2006 to September 2011, in which the programme aims to firstly consolidate the gains made to date, to widen services both in terms of activities and access, and to sustain the achievements. The second phase aims to maintain at least a 70% case detection rate of new smear positive cases as well as maintain a cure rate of at least 85%. This needs to be done in order to achieve the TB-related targets set by the Millennium Development Goals for 2015 and to achieve TB control in the longer term. Today India's TB control program needs to update itself with the international TB guidelines as well as provide an optimal anti TB treatment to the patients enrolled under it or it will land up being another factor in the genesis of drug resistant tuberculosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49241413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49241413", "title": "Rosita Beatrice Missick-Butterfield", "text": "Rosita Beatrice Missick-Butterfield\n\nRosita Beatrice Missick-Butterfield, MBE (14 November 1936 – 10 January 2015) was a Turks and Caicos Islander who served as the first woman Member of Parliament and Speaker of the House of Assembly of the Turks and Caicos Islands.\n\nBeginning her career as a teacher, after a brief period, Butterfield moved into nursing, earning her RGN and midwife certifications in Jamaica. After nearly a decade of nursing in the United States, she returned to Turks and Caicos and served as a clinic nurse for eight years before entering the family business. In the 1980s, she served on various public service boards before running for election in 1984. She was the first woman elected as part of the Legislative Assembly and after one term was continuously appointed to serve until 1991, when she became the first woman elected as Speaker of the Legislative Assembly. After a three-year term as Speaker, she left public office to resume her duties as chief executive officer of the family firm and philanthropic efforts.\n\nRosita Beatrice Missick was born on 14 November 1936 in Kew, on North Caicos in the Turks and Caicos Islands to Savelitta A. (née Higgs) and Isaiah V. Missick. She attended the Kew Elementary School and the Bottle Creek Elementary School before finishing her secondary education at Grand Turk Secondary School. Upon completion of her secondary schooling, Missick completed a workshop in Grand Turk to earn her teaching credentials and briefly taught at Kew Elementary School.\n\nIn 1953, she changed direction and was hired at Grand Turk Hospital as part of the staff. Four years later, Missick received a scholarship and attended registered nursing training in Jamaica at the Kingston Public Hospital and the University College Hospital, now the University Hospital of the West Indies. She earned her qualification as a registered general nurse (RGN) and returned to Grand Turk Hospital for two years. Deciding to add midwifery training, Missick enrolled for training at Victoria Jubilee Hospital in Kingston, Jamaica. She graduated with a competency to deliver babies without doctor's supervision and honors, having earned the Matron's Prize, for best overall student; the Chief Surgeon's Prize, for the most efficient surgical student nurse; and the Evelyn Pierce Medical Nursing Book for night duty service excellence.\n\nOn 22 March 1961, Missick married Albray V. Butterfield Sr. and the couple soon moved to Florida. Missick-Butterfield began working at Wuesthoff Hospital, as well as at the Sunny Pines Nursing Home, both in Rockledge, Florida. In addition to her work, she continued her education, completing her certification in psychiatric nursing at Daytona Beach Junior College in 1968. She also attended Brevard Junior College, studying business administration. They returned to the Turks and Caicos in 1971 and Butterfield accepted a position as nurse in charge of the Providenciales Clinic, until her retirement in 1978.\n\nIn 1978, she became a director and secretary of the Butterfield Gold Group of Companies, a business started by her husband. Between 1982 and 1984, Butterfield served on the advisory committee of the Provo branch of the Immigration Committee, evaluating work permits for Providenciales Island. From 1983, she also served on various boards and committees for public welfare, including the Health Practitioner’s Board, Public Service Advisory Board, Turks and Caicos Tourist Board, and as a social worker for the Welfare Department.\n\nIn 1984, Butterfield became the first woman elected as a Member of Parliament in the Turks and Caicos, as a representative for the constituency of Kew, North Caicos. In 1986, she was appointed as Deputy Speaker of the House, serving until 1988. Between 1987 and 1988, she acted as chair of the Employment Bill Committee. In 1988, she became an appointed Member of Parliament (called the Legislative Assembly at that time), representing the Progressive National Party and served in that capacity until 1991, when she was elected as the first woman Speaker of the House. In 1992, Butterfield was the title of Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) by Queen Elizabeth II. Between 1991 and 1993, while she served Speaker, Butterfield also was a Justice of the Peace in the Turks and Caicos Islands and acted as president of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, Turks and Caicos branch. After her term in politics ended, Butterfield returned to the family business, serving as chief executive officer.\n\nButterfield served as Pastor of Faith Tabernacle Church Of God Turks and Caicos Islands and donated funds to build churches in Providenciales and North Caicos. She and her husband provided funds for the construction of a medical facility in Sandy Point, North Caicos. In addition to other philanthropic endeavors, Butterfield was involved in numerous activities related to education including providing scholarships, co-sponsoring the Inter-Island High School Spelling Bee, co-founding the Turks and Caicos Community College and founding the canteen of Clement Howell High School. She also founded the Soroptimist International club and established the Aglow International chapter in Providenciales.\n\nButterfield died on 10 January 2015 at Doctor’s Hospital in Nassau, Bahamas and was given a state funeral on 5 February 2015 in Turks and Caicos.\n\n"}
{"id": "33784314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33784314", "title": "Social stress", "text": "Social stress\n\nSocial stress is stress that stems from one's relationships with others and from the social environment in general. Based on the appraisal theory of emotion, stress arises when a person evaluates a situation as personally relevant and perceives that s/he does not have the resources to cope or handle the specific situation. An event which exceeds the ability to cope does not necessarily have to occur in order for one to experience stress, as the threat of such an event occurring can be sufficient.\n\nThere are three main categories of social stressors. Life events are defined as abrupt, severe life changes that require an individual to adapt quickly (ex. sexual assault, sudden injury). Chronic strains are defined as persistent events which require an individual to make adaptations over an extended period of time (ex. divorce, unemployment). Daily hassles are defined as minor events that occur, which require adaptation throughout the day (ex. bad traffic, disagreements). When stress becomes chronic, one experiences emotional, behavioral, and physiological changes that can put one under greater risk for developing a mental disorder and physical illness.\n\nHumans are social beings by nature, as they typically have a fundamental need and desire to maintain positive social relationships. Thus, they usually find maintaining positive social ties to be beneficial. Social relationships can offer nurturance, foster feelings of social inclusion, and lead to reproductive success. Anything that disrupts or threatens to disrupt their relationships with others can result in social stress. This can include low social status in society or in particular groups, giving a speech, interviewing with potential employers, caring for a child or spouse with a chronic illness, meeting new people at a party, the threat of or actual death of a loved one, divorce, and discrimination. Social stress can arise from one's micro-environment (e.g., family ties) and macro-environment (e.g., hierarchical societal structure). Social stress is typically the most frequent type of stressor that people experience in their daily lives and affects people more intensely than other types of stressors.\n\nResearchers define social stress and social stressors in various ways. Wadman, Durkin, and Conti-Ramsden (2011) defined social stress as \"the feelings of discomfort or anxiety that individuals may experience in social situations, and the associated tendency to avoid potentially stressful social situations\". Ilfield (1977) defined social stressors as \"circumstances of daily social roles that are generally considered problematic or undesirable\". Dormann and Zapf (2004) defined social stressors as \"a class of characteristics, situations, episodes, or behaviors that are related to psychological or physical strain and that are somehow social in nature\".\n\nSocial stress is typically measured through self-report questionnaires. In the laboratory, researchers can induce social stress through various methods and protocols.\n\nThere are several questionnaires used to assess environmental and psychosocial stress. Such self-report measures include the Test of Negative Social Exchange, the Marital Adjustment Test, the Risky Families Questionnaire, the Holmes–Rahe Stress Inventory, the Trier Inventory for the Assessment of Chronic Stress, the Daily Stress Inventory, the Job Content Questionnaire, the Perceived Stress Scale, and the Stress and Adversity Inventory.\n\nIn addition to self-report questionnaires, researchers can employ structured interview assessments. The Life Events and Difficulties Schedule (LEDS) is one of the most popular instruments used in research. The purpose of this type of measure is to probe the participant to elaborate on his/her stressful life events, rather than answering singular questions. The UCLA Life Stress Interview (LSI), which is similar to the LEDS, includes questions about romantic partners, closest friendships, other friendships, and family relationships.\n\nIn rodent models, social disruption and social defeat are two common social stress paradigms. In the social disruption paradigm, an aggressive rodent is introduced into a cage housing male rodents that have already naturally established a social hierarchy. The aggressive \"intruder\" disrupts the social hierarchy, causing the residents social stress. In the social defeat paradigm, an aggressive \"intruder\" and another non-aggressive male rodent fight.\n\nIn human research, the Trier Social Stress Task (TSST) is widely used to induce social stress in the laboratory. In the TSST, participants are told that they have to prepare and give a speech about why they would be a great candidate for their ideal job. The experimenter films the participant while s/he gives the speech and informs the participant that a panel of judges will evaluate that speech. After the public speaking component, the experimenter administers a mathematics task that involves counting backwards by certain increments. If the participant makes a mistake, the experimenter prompts him/her to start again. The threat of negative evaluation is the social stressor. Researchers can measure the stress response by comparing pre-stress salivary cortisol levels and post-stress salivary cortisol levels. Other common stress measures used in the TSST are self-report measures like the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and physiological measures like heart rate.\n\nIn a laboratory conflict discussion, couples identify several specific areas of conflict in their relationship. The couples then pinpoint a couple topics to discuss later on in the experiment (ex. finances, child-rearing). Couples are told to discuss the conflict(s) for 10 minutes while being videotaped.\n\nBrouwer and Hogervorst (2014) designed the Sing-a-Song Stress Test (SSST) to induce stress in the laboratory setting. After viewing neutral images with subsequent 1-minute rest periods, the participant is instructed to sing a song after the next 1-minute rest period is complete. Researchers found that skin conductance and heart rate are significantly higher during the post-song message interval than the previous 1-minute intervals. The stress levels are comparable to that induced in the Trier Social Stress Task.\n\nA statistical indicator of stress, simultaneous increase of variance and correlations, was proposed for diagnosis of stress and successfully used in physiology and finance. Its applicability for early diagnosis of social stress in large groups was demonstrated by the analysis of crises. It was examined in the prolonged stress period preceding the 2014 Ukrainian economic and political crisis. There was a simultaneous increase in the total correlation between the 19 major public fears in the Ukrainian society (by about 64%) and also in their statistical dispersion (by 29%) during the pre-crisis years.\n\nResearch has consistently demonstrated that social stress increases risk for developing negative mental health outcomes. One prospective study asked over fifteen hundred Finnish employees whether they had \"considerable difficulties with [their] coworkers/superiors/inferiors during the last 6 months, 5 years, earlier, or never\". Information on suicides, hospitalizations due to psychosis, suicidal behavior, alcohol intoxication, depressive symptoms, and medication for chronic psychiatric disorders was then gathered from the national registries of mortality and morbidity. Those who had experienced conflict in the workplace with coworkers or supervisors in the last five years were more likely to be diagnosed with a psychiatric condition.\n\nResearch on the LGB population has suggested that people who identify as LGB suffer more from mental health disorders, such as substance abuse and mood disorders, compared to those who identify as heterosexual. Researchers deduce that the LGB people's higher risk of mental health issues derives from their stressful social environments. Minority groups can face high levels of stigma, prejudice, and discrimination on a regular basis, therefore leading to the development of various mental health disorders.\n\nRisk for developing clinical depression significantly increases after experiencing social stress; depressed individuals often experience interpersonal loss before becoming depressed. One study found that depressed individuals who had been rejected by others had developed depression about three times more quickly than those who had experienced stress not involving social rejection. In non-clinically depressed populations, people with friends and family who make too many demands, criticize, and create tension and conflict tend to have more depressive symptoms.\n\nConflict between spouses also leads to more psychological distress and depressive symptoms, especially for wives. In particular, unhappy married couples are 10–25 times more at risk for developing clinical depression. Similarly, social stress arising from discrimination is related to greater depressive symptoms. In one study, African-Americans and non-Hispanic whites reported on their daily experiences of discrimination and depressive symptoms. Regardless of race, those who perceived more discrimination had higher depressive symptoms.\n\nThe biological basis for anxiety disorders is rooted in the consistent activation of the stress response. Fear, which is the defining emotion of an anxiety disorder, occurs when someone perceives a situation (a stressor) as threatening. This activates the stress response. If a person has difficulty regulating this stress response, it may activate inappropriately. Stress can therefore arise when a real stressor is not present or when something isn't actually threatening. This can lead to the development of an anxiety disorder (panic attacks, social anxiety, OCD, etc.). Social anxiety disorder is defined as the fear of being judged or evaluated by others, even if no such threat is actually present.\n\nResearch shows a connection between social stress, such as traumatic life events and chronic strains, and the development of anxiety disorders. A study that examined a subpopulation of adults, both young and middle-age, found that those who had diagnosed panic disorder in adulthood also experienced sexual abuse during childhood. Children who experience social stressors, such as physical and psychological abuse, as well as parental loss, are also more at risk for developing anxiety disorders during adulthood than children who did not experience such stressors.\n\nSocial stress occurring early in life can have psychopathological effects that develop or persist in adulthood. One longitudinal study found that children were more likely to have a psychiatric disorder (e.g. anxiety, depressive, disruptive, personality, and substance use disorders) in late adolescence and early adulthood when their parents showed more maladaptive child-rearing behaviors (e.g., loud arguments between parents, verbal abuse, difficulty controlling anger toward the child, lack of parental support or availability, and harsh punishment). Child temperament and parental psychiatric disorders did not explain this association. Other studies have documented the robust relationships between children’s social stress within the family environment and depression, aggression, antisocial behavior, anxiety, suicide, and hostile, oppositional, and delinquent behavior.\n\nSocial stress can also exacerbate current psychopathological conditions and compromise recovery. For instance, patients recovering from depression or bipolar disorder are two times more likely to relapse if there is familial tension. People with eating disorders are also more likely to relapse if their family members make more critical comments, are more hostile, or are over-involved. Similarly, outpatients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder show greater psychotic symptoms if the most influential person in their life is critical and are more likely to relapse if their familial relationships are marked by tension.\n\nIn regard to substance abuse, cocaine-dependent individuals report greater cravings for cocaine following exposure to a social stressor. Traumatic life events and social stressors can also trigger the exacerbation of the symptoms of mental health disorders. Socially phobic children who experience a stressful event can become even more avoidant and socially inactive.\n\nResearch has also found a robust relationship between various social stressors and aspects of physical health.\n\nSocial status, a macro-social stressor, is a robust predictor of death. In a study of over 1700 British civil servants, socioeconomic status (SES) was inversely related to mortality. Those with the lowest SES have worse health outcomes and greater mortality rates than those with the greatest SES. Other studies have replicated this relationship between SES and mortality in a range of diseases, including infectious, digestive, and respiratory diseases. A study examining the link between SES and mortality in the elderly found that education level, household income, and occupational prestige were all related to lower mortality in men. In women, however, only household income was related to lower mortality.\n\nSimilarly, social stressors in the micro-environment are also linked to increased mortality. A seminal longitudinal study of nearly 7,000 people found that socially isolated people had greater risk of dying from any cause.\n\nSocial support, which is defined as \"the comfort, assistance, and/or information one receives through formal or informal contacts with individuals or groups\", has been linked to physical health outcomes. Research shows the three aspects of social support, available attachments, perceived social support, and frequency of social interactions, can predict mortality thirty months after assessment.\n\nSocial stress also makes people more sick. People who have fewer social contacts are at greater risk for developing illness, including cardiovascular disease. The lower one’s social status, the more likely he or she is to have a cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, neoplastic, pulmonary, renal, or other chronic diseases. These links are not explained by other, more traditional risk factors such as race, health behaviors, age, sex, or access to health care.\n\nIn one laboratory study, researchers interviewed participants to determine whether they had been experiencing social conflicts with spouses, close family members and friends. They then exposed the participants to the common cold virus and found that participants with conflict-ridden relationships were two times more likely to develop a cold than those without such social stress. Social support, especially in terms of support for socioeconomic stressors, is inversely related to physical morbidity. A study that investigated social determinants of health in an urban slum in India found that social exclusion, stress, and lack of social support are significantly related to illnesses, such as hypertension, coronary heart disease, and diabetes.\n\nExposure to social stress in childhood can also have long-term effects, increasing risk for developing diseases later in life. In particular, adults who were maltreated (emotionally, physically, sexually abused or neglected) as children report more disease outcomes, such as stroke, heart attack, diabetes, and hypertension or greater severity of those outcomes. The Adverse Childhood Experiences study (ACE), which includes over seventeen thousand adults, also found that there was a 20% increase in likelihood for experiencing heart disease for each kind of chronic familial social stressor experienced in childhood, and this was not due to typical risk factors for heart disease such as demographics, smoking, exercise, adiposity, diabetes, or hypertension.\n\nSocial stress has also been tied to worse health outcomes among patients who already have a disease. Patients with end-stage renal disease faced a 46% increased risk for mortality when there was more relationship negativity with their spouse even when controlling for severity of disease and treatment. Similarly, women who had experienced an acute coronary event were three times more likely to experience another coronary event if they experienced moderate to severe marital strain. This finding remained even after controlling for demographics, health behaviors, and disease status.\n\nWith regard to HIV/AIDS, stress may affect the progression from the virus to the disease. Research shows the HIV-positive males who have more negative life events, social stress, and lack of social support progress to a clinical AIDS diagnosis more quickly than HIV-positive males who do not have as high levels of social stress. For HIV-positive females, who have also contracted the HSV virus, stress is a risk factor for genital herpes breakouts.\n\nSocial stress leads to a number of physiological changes that mediate its relationship to physical health. In the short term, the physiological changes outlined below are adaptive, as they enable the stressed organism to cope better. Dysregulation of these systems or repeated activation of them over the long-term can be detrimental to health.\n\nThe sympathetic nervous system (SNS) becomes activated in response to stress. Sympathetic arousal stimulates the medulla of the medulla to secrete epinephrine and norepinephrine into the blood stream, which facilitates the fight-or-flight response. Blood pressure, heart rate, and sweating increase, veins constrict to allow the heart to beat with more force, arteries leading to muscles dilate, and blood flow to parts of the body not essential for the fight or flight response decreases. If stress persists in the long run, then blood pressure remains elevated, leading to hypertension and atherosclerosis, both precursors to cardiovascular disease.\n\nA number of animal and human studies have confirmed that social stress increases risk for negative health outcomes by increasing SNS activity. Studies of rodents show that social stress causes hypertension and atherosclerosis. Studies of non-human primates also show that social stress clogs arteries. Although humans cannot be randomized to receive social stress due to ethical concerns, studies have nevertheless shown that negative social interactions characterized by conflict lead to increases in blood pressure and heart rate. Social stress stemming from perceived daily discrimination is also associated with elevated levels of blood pressure during the day and a lack of blood pressure dipping at night.\n\nIn response to stress, the hypothalamus releases corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), stimulating the anterior pituitary to release adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). ACTH then stimulates the adrenal cortex to secrete glucocorticoids, including cortisol. Social stress can lead to adverse health outcomes by chronically activating the HPA axis or disrupting the HPA system. There are a number of studies that link social stress and indications of a disrupted HPA axis; for instance, monkey infants neglected by their mothers show prolonged cortisol responses following a challenging event.\n\nIn humans, abused women exhibit a prolonged elevation in cortisol following a standardized psychosocial laboratory stressor compared to those without an abuse history. Maltreated children show higher morning cortisol values than non-maltreated children. Their HPA systems also fail to recover after a stressful social interaction with their caregiver. Over time, low-SES children show progressively greater output of cortisol. Although these studies point to a disrupted HPA system accounting for the link between social stress and physical health, they did not include disease outcomes. Nevertheless, a dysfunctional HPA response to stress is thought to increase risk for developing or exacerbating diseases such as diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, and hypertension.\n\nInflammation is an immune response that is critical to fighting infections and repairing injured tissue. Although acute inflammation is adaptive, chronic inflammatory activity can contribute to adverse health outcomes, such as hypertension, atherosclerosis, coronary heart disease, depression, diabetes, and some cancers.\n\nResearch has elucidated a relationship between different social stressors and cytokines (the markers of inflammation). Chronic social stressors, such as caring for a spouse with dementia, lead to greater circulating levels of cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6), whereas acute social stress tasks in the laboratory have been shown to elicit increases in proinflammatory cytokines. Similarly, when faced with another type of social stress, namely social evaluative threat, participants showed increases in IL-6 and a soluble receptor for tumor necrosis factor-α. Increases in inflammation may persist over time, as studies have shown that chronic relationship stress has been tied to greater IL-6 production 6 months later and children reared in a stressful family environment marked by neglect and conflict tend to show elevated levels of C-reactive protein, a marker of IL-6, in adulthood.\n\nThere is extensive evidence that the above physiological systems affect one another's functioning. For instance, cortisol tends to have a suppressive effect on inflammatory processes, and proinflammatory cytokines can also activate the HPA system. Sympathetic activity can also upregulate inflammatory activity. Given the relationships among these physiological systems, social stress may also influence health indirectly via affecting a particular physiological system that in turn affects a different physiological system.\n\n"}
{"id": "39284743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39284743", "title": "The Pacific Identity and Wellbeing Scale", "text": "The Pacific Identity and Wellbeing Scale\n\nThe Pacific Identity and Wellbeing Scale (PIWBS) is a self-report inventory with a Likert scale format, designed to assess five distinct dimensions of identity and subjective well-being among Pacific populations in New Zealand:\n\nThe PIWBS was developed by Sam Manuela, a doctoral candidate at The University of Auckland. The scale aims to provide a culturally sensitive, valid and reliable self-report inventory of Pacific identity and subjective well-being which aids the understanding and predicting of Pacific outcomes. The measure contributes to Pacific studies by providing a quantitative, within-cultural research tool for Pacific peoples from a Pacific perspective. The PIWBS is associated with the New Zealand Attitudes and Values Study.\n\nThe dimensions, Group Membership Evaluation, Pacific Connectedness and Belonging, and Religious Centrality and Embeddness all relate to identity. Answers to questions relating to identity are rated on a Likert scale ranging from 1 to 7 (1 = strongly disagree and 7 = strongly agree). The dimensions, Perceived Familial Wellbeing and Perceived Societal Wellbeing both relate to wellbeing. Answers to questions relating to wellbeing are rated on a Likert scale ranging from 1 to 7 (1 = completely dissatisfied and 7 = completely satisfied).\n\nThis factor reflects subjective evaluations of membership within the Pacific group. Positive group evaluations are shown through pride in one's ethnic identity and culture, and represent a secure ethnic identity. This factor includes an evaluation of positive effect brought about by Pacific group membership, and an evaluation of the extent to which one's Pacific identity is seen as a central and defining aspect of self-concept. High scores on this factor would indicate that positive/worthwhile feelings are derived from Pacific identification, and that affiliation with a Pacific group is seen as a desirable aspect of self-concept and is central to identity.\n\n\nThis factor is a measure of an individual's sense of belonging and connectedness with Pacific others and groups. These feelings derive from shared experiences and commonalities and are particularly apparent among youth. This factor, which assesses the extent to which the individual believes the self to be an integral part of a Pacific group, is made up of two distinct dimensions. The first dimension concerns perceived connections/relationships with others, and the second dimension concerns an individual's subjective sense of belonging at a broader level. High scores on this factor would indicate that the individual feels similar to Pacific others, and perceives themselves to be an integral member of the wider, general group, and have a feeling of belonging.\n\n\nThis factor assesses the individual's evaluation of the extent to which religion is central to their identity as Pacific, and the extent to which they believe religion to be entwined with Pacific culture. Religion is an important aspect of Pacific identity, having a huge influence on many Pacific communities by providing social connections and support, and fulfilling cultural and religious needs. This factor focuses on Christianity-based religions which are the most common in Pacific societies. High scores on this factor would indicate that the individual feels that Christianity-based religion is a central aspect of self-identity, and is strongly linked to their Pacific culture.\n\n\nThis factor assesses the individual's subjective satisfaction with their family, and the subjective well-being of and within their family. Family offers physical, mental, cultural, spiritual and social nurturance, and is an integral aspect of Pacific self-concept, closely tied to wellbeing. This factor assesses a variety of Pacific family values including respect, communication, relationships and happiness. High scores in this factor would indicate that the individual feels a strong sense of support from their family, and that the individual perceives their family as a whole to have a high level of wellbeing.\n\n\nThis factor reflects the individual's satisfaction with society and the support it offers. Satisfaction with society has a strong influence on the subjective wellbeing of Pacific people. Perceived support from society is assessed on various levels, from the local community level to the national government level and responses indicate how supported and integrated the Pacific individual feels in New Zealand. High scores on this factor would indicate that the individual feels satisfied, supported and accepted by all levels of New Zealand society.\n\n\nThe Pacific Identity and Wellbeing Scale was developed and validated using exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA). The initial pool of 125 questions was developed based on previous Pacific research, a variety of other wellbeing and identity scales, discussions with Pacific peoples and the Multi-dimensional Model of Maori Identity and Cultural Engagement. \n\nExploratory factor analysis (EFA) was conducted to organise the 125 possible questions into groups (factors) based on similarity of topic. Individual items that did not fit a group well or that related to more than one group were not used. Thirty-one questions were retained which were found to measure the five distinct, yet interconnected factors of Pacific identity and wellbeing. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was later used to confirm the structure of the PIWBS. All 31 items were found to be strongly related to the predicted factors. \nCronbach's alpha (internal reliability) measures the extent to which all the questions in a section measure the same construct/factor consistently. The five factors of the PIWBS showed excellent internal reliability, with Cronbach's alphas all above α = 0.85. The minimum accepted standard of internal reliability is α = 0.70. \n\nThe PIWBS has been used in several studies to investigate the low levels of subjective well-being found among Pacific peoples who identify with multiple ethnic groups. Differences were found in levels of subjective well-being depending on the number of ethnic groups the individual associated with. For example, people who identified only as Pacific had higher levels of wellbeing than people who identified as both Pacific and non-Pacific (e.g. New Zealand European). However, there were no differences in wellbeing levels between people who identified as only Pacific, and people who identified with two Pacific groups (e.g. Tongan and Samoan). This suggests that lower wellbeing only occurred when the two ethnic groups associated with, were very different (e.g. Pacific and New Zealand European).\n\nIdentity Tension Effect: Associating with both a Pacific group and a majority ethnic group (e.g. New Zealand European) may lead to negative feelings about Pacific aspects of identity. This is because people who identify with multiple ethnic groups tend to be more likely to internalise negative stereotypes about Pacific people held by the majority. This can lead to identity confusion and lowered self-esteem. \n\nPopulation projections suggest that the Pacific community will grow by 60% by 2026. Approximately one third of Pacific people identify as both Pacific and non-Pacific. This means that a growing percentage of the New Zealand population may be at risk of a number of negative outcomes. These outcomes include both lower self-esteem, as well as decreased feelings of support from family. Through applied research interventions such as challenging negative stereotypes and promoting positive stereotypes about Pacific peoples, it may be possible to address this problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "23853763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23853763", "title": "Vacuum truck", "text": "Vacuum truck\n\nA vacuum truck or vacuum tanker is a tank truck that has a pump and a tank. The pump is designed to pneumatically suck liquids, sludges, slurries, or the like from a location (often underground) into the tank of the truck. The objective is to enable transport of the liquid material via road to another location. Vacuum trucks transport the collected material to a treatment or disposal site, for example a sewage treatment plant.\n\nA common material to be transport is septage (or more broadly: fecal sludge) which is human excreta mixed with water, e.g. from septic tanks and pit latrines). They also transport sewage sludge, industrial liquids, or slurries from animal waste from livestock facilities with pens. \n\nVacuum trucks can be equipped with a high pressure pump if they are used to clean out sewers from sand.\n\nOther names used for vacuum trucks: vacuum tanker, \"Sucker truck\" (in Australia) or \"Sewer Sucker\", \"Hydro-vac\", or \"vac-trucks\" (in Canada). Slang terms include: \"honey truck\", \"honey sucker\" (in India and South Africa), and \"honeywagon\", all (probably) derived from honey bucket.\n\nWhen a vacuum truck is used to transport fecal sludge then it can also be called \"fecal sludge truck\".\n\nCommercial vacuum trucks which collect fecal sludge usually have a volume of . However various smaller versions for specialized applications or low-resource settings can be found with tanks as small as .\n\nThey generally use a low-volume sliding vane pump or a liquid ring pump to create a negative air pressure. The use of diaphragm mud pumps is less common, but with the advantage of a simpler design and usually lower overall costs. The disadvantage is that mechanical parts come into contact with the sludge, which is not the case for the more common vacuum pumps.\n\nThe truck can be configured to be a direct belt drive, or a hydraulic drive system.\n\nThere are two different ways to mount the pump: either directly on the truck with the vacuum drive powered by the truck motor, or on the trailer with an independent motor. The second option with the independent motor is more complicated and not commonly used. It has the advantage of potentially having the pump closer to the septic tank. It is also able to use the negative pressure suction side of the pump as well as the positive pressure side to pump sludge over longer distances or lift it higher into the tank.\n\nThe suction hoses are typically in diameter with being the norm. The possible length depends on various factors mainly related to the lift and other pressure losses. It is usually impossible to extend it beyond .\n\nAn inherent suction limitation of all suction pumps is that they can only lift a liquid through utilizing atmospheric pressure. For pure water the theoretical maximum lift is approximately . However, due to the viscosity of fecal sludge it is possible to mix air into it either by sucking close from the surface or by adding air with a compressor through a separate hose. Through this process, the overall density of the sludge/air mixture can be reduced below that of pure water and thus a higher lift () can be reached under optimal conditions. Other factors affecting the possible lift and total length of the suction hose are that single stage vacuum pumps only reach a 85-90% partial vacuum, and that small air leakages, pipe friction losses, and the viscosity of the liquid further reduce the possible lift.\n\nNormally a tanker is emptied by gravity. There is a possibility to pressure up the vacuum tank in order to \"pressure out\" the liquid quicker or against a small difference in level. But that procedure is not good for the equipment and is therefore done only in special situations.\n\nThe regular discharge time for a tanker of is about 15 minutes (or 7–10 minutes to unload a tanker of ). The outlet is typically in diameter. The discharge time depends on the thickness of the sludge, the size of the outlet valve and hose, the amount of garbage in the fecal sludge, and how often the driver has to stop to clean the dump screen.\n\nVacuum trucks are used by town and municipal governments, as well as commercial entities around the world.\n\nSeveral types of non-centralized sanitation systems are served by vacuum trucks. They are used to empty septage from cesspits, septic tanks, pit latrines, and communal latrines, for street cleanup, for sewer clean out, and for individual septic systems. The trucks are used in the cleaning of sanitary sewer pumping stations. Vacuum trucks are used to empty portable toilets. In commercial aviation, vacuum trucks are used to collect waste from airplane toilets.\n\nVacuum trucks discharge these wastes to the sewer network, to a wastewater treatment plant, or—usually illegally, for example in many developing countries— directly into the environment. The latter practice, called \"institutionalised open defecation\", is dangerous since it constitutes a public health and environmental hazard.\n\nVacuum trucks are used in the petroleum industry, for cleaning of storage tanks and spills. They are also an important part of drilling oil and natural gas wells, as they are located at the drilling site. Vacuum trucks are used to remove drilling mud, drilling cuttings, cement, spills, and for removal of brine water from production tanks. They dispose of this in sump pits, treatment plants or if within safe levels may be spread out in a farmer's field.\n\nVacuum trucks are also used for exposing underground utilities. The ground is jetted with water, and the vacuum truck sucks up the muddy product. This exposes the buried utility without the possibility of damage, as would be possible if a digging machine were used (i.e. tractor backhoe, tracked or wheeled excavator, ditch witches).\n\nVacuum trucks can also be used for cleanup of contaminated soil.\n\nA typical vacuum truck in India has a capacity of and serves about five buildings a day. Assuming a 2-year emptying cycle one truck can cater to about 3,000 to 4,000 buildings or 15,000 to 20,000 people. Vacuum trucks are an alternative to the dangerous and humiliating practice of manual scavenging that became illegal in India with the Manual Scavenging Act of 1993. In the city of Bangalore alone, it is estimated that there were up to 200 such trucks in 2012, serving more than 3 million people. These vacuum trucks are operated by private companies without the need for subsidies. The charge for emptying a septic tank is between 1,200 and 3,000 Rupees (USD 24 and 60) every two years. After three months of composting, a truckload of compost can be sold for 1,500 to 2,000 Rupees (USD 30 to 40). In the Bangalore area, compost is used primarily on banana and coconut trees.\n\nCompost can generate revenues since it replaces expensive fertilizer. If septage is discharged on land for composting, each vacuum truck requires of land for composting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56266179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56266179", "title": "Venezuela at the Deaflympics", "text": "Venezuela at the Deaflympics\n\nVenezuela has been participating at the Deaflympics since 1969 and has earned a total of 37 medals.\n\nVenezuela yet to compete at the Winter Deaflympic Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "44158071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44158071", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Zimbabwe", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Zimbabwe\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Zimbabwe is defined by many small scale successful programs but also by a general lack of improved water and sanitation systems for the majority of Zimbabwe. According to the World Health Organization in 2012, 80% of Zimbabweans had access to improved, i.e. clean, drinking-water sources, and only 40% of Zimbabweans had access to improved sanitation facilities. Access to improved water supply and sanitation is distinctly less in rural areas. There are many factors which continue to determine the nature, for the foreseeable future, of water supply and sanitation in Zimbabwe. Three major factors are the severely depressed state of the Zimbabwean economy, the willingness of foreign aid organizations to build and finance infrastructure projects, and the political stability of the Zimbabwean state.\n\nUpon gaining independence in 1980 Zimbabwe inherited an undeveloped rural water supply and sanitation infrastructure system, but a better functioning urban water supply and sanitation network. Conditions throughout the 1980s and the early 1990s were highly advantageous to Zimbabwe's water and sanitation sectors due to the massive support for the incoming elected majority government as well as an influx of foreign investment. This support manifested itself in the highly ambitious Integrated Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Programme (IRWSSP) in 1985. The IRWSSP attempted to provide improved water and sanitation facilities to all rural Zimbabweans by 2005. Although IRWSSP did not achieve this goal, it was still greatly beneficial as Zimbabwe experienced, according to the African Development Bank, \"one of the highest rates of growth in water supply and sanitation services\" between the years 1980 to 2000. However, after the turn of the millennium, Zimbabwe's economy has gone through a period of steep decline and many foreign investors have departed. This is partly due to political reforms, especially those of land reform, enacted by the government of President Robert Mugabe. In addition, Zimbabwe's population has been steadily growing over the last thirty years, and as a result there is a pressing need for updating and expanding aging water and sanitation infrastructure throughout Zimbabwe. The deteriorating water supply and sanitation sectors caught up with Zimbabwe in 2008 and 2009, as Zimbabwe experienced a massive cholera outbreak (Zimbabwean cholera outbreak), during which almost 100,000 were infected and over 4,000 died.\n\nZimbabwe is a landlocked country and therefore its major water supplies are lakes, rivers, and aquifers. The two major rivers in Zimbabwe are the Zambezi River in the north, and the Limpopo River in the south. Several other rivers with significant watershed areas that flow through Zimbabwe are the Save, Manyame, and Sanyati Rivers. The biggest lake in Zimbabwe is Lake Kariba which is on the border with Zambia. There are several large aquifers in Zimbabwe.\n\nIn urban centers of Zimbabwe the majority of the water supply comes from piped water. In rural areas, Zimbabweans predominantly rely on wells and boreholes that tap into Zimbabwe's groundwater supply. The construction of many wells was mainly financed by the households themselves. The dynamic development of the private sector is a good example of how self-supply initiatives can reach large parts of the population.\nMany Zimbabweans still practice open defecation, especially in rural areas. However, in large urban centers such as Harare, there are sewage systems, and many homes throughout Zimbabwe have private pit latrines or share communal latrines.\nIn 2018 problems at the Morton Jeffray Waterworks in Harare were said to be the cause of the renewed cholera outbreak. \n\nAccording to UNICEF, over 60% of the rural water supply infrastructure in Zimbabwe is in a state of disrepair, and as a result, many boreholes and wells contain non potable water and are in need of decontamination. Even in urban centers, piped water supply is very sporadic and sometimes unclean. This is partly due to poor sanitation and refuse systems resulting in many sewers which are often highly polluted. There is also a pressing inadequacy in the number of public and private latrines. An additional problem that comes with the need to update and expand an aging and contaminated water supply and sanitation network (well, boreholes, piped water, latrines, etc.) is the need to educate all members of the Zimbabwean public on available opportunities for improving personal access to improved water supply and sanitation. During the cholera outbreak of 2008-2009 information from the Zimbabwean government about the safety of available water supplies people was particularly unclear. One method that has proved effective at improving the sanitation practices of the public are community health clubs, which have also proved to be cost effective and highly popular.\nWater supply and sanitation in Zimbabwe is managed by a number of different governmental ministries and departments. The overarching organizations that control all water resources are the National Action Committee or NAC, and the Ministry of Water Resources Development and Management (MoWRDM). These groups directly oversee the WASH coalition, a combination of NGOs (Non-Governmental Organizations), UNICEF, and other private groups, that is chaired by the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare, and which finances and builds sanitation and water supply systems in the hope of fulfilling the UN Millennium Development Goal. In addition, the NAC and MoWRDM also oversee the Zimbabwe National Water Authority (ZINWA) which chiefly deals with water supply and distribution to the industrial, agriculture, and private sectors. ZINWA is subdivided into different areas of water catchment. Additionally, ZINWA oversees the 250 major dams in Zimbabwe. As well as this, the NAC is divided into two subcommittees, the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Committee and the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Committee, which are composed of many different governmental agencies and are responsible for the planning and infrastructure of water supply and sanitation in rural and urban areas respectively. Local water distribution is overseen by local village or regional governments and sometimes by ZINWA itself.\n\nA number of foreign governments and NGOs are actively working to improve water supply and sanitation in Zimbabwe through both small and large scale infrastructure projects. As well as actively participating, these organizations finance many other efforts. These organizations include the World Bank, the African Development Bank (AfDB), and the German Government, who through its technical cooperation agency, Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), gave $6 million (US) to improve the water supply and sanitation systems in the towns of Gweru, Kadoma, and Kariba. The Australian government also provided over $10 million (US) for water supply and sanitation system improvements and research.\n\nUNICEF is currently managing several programs in collaboration with the entire WASH program to ameliorate water and sewage systems. These include updating sanitation systems in the towns of Masvingo, Plumtree, and Zvishavane, and managing a $30 million (US Dollars) project to provide potable water and improved sanitation to 500,000 Zimbabweans. As well as this, UNICEF and the entire WASH program are working towards providing safe water and sanitation to 2.3 million people in Zimbabwe currently without access to improved water and sanitation.\n\nAs a result of mining, industry, large scale unsustainable agriculture, and somewhat lax and unenforced pollution laws, many rivers and lakes in Zimbabwe are polluted. This has made drinking and bathing in these rivers and lakes unsafe. In particular the water of several rivers that go through the Marange diamond fields in eastern Zimbabwe has been so polluted that it has killed livestock that drank it and given rashes to bathers. Another area of Zimbabwe with especially high levels of water pollution is Harare and its nearby suburbs. This is due to the large population of Harare, decrepit and broken sewage systems, and mismanagement by government agencies designated to enforce environmental and water quality regulations. Fortunately, there are programs in place that inspect the quality of the water of many of the major rivers as well as gauging stations that measure the water supply levels of Zimbabwe's dams.\n\nThe lack of improved water supply and sanitation severely impacts the human capabilities of all Zimbabweans. Without clean water and proper sanitation human beings are more prone to contracting illnesses, and therefore suffer greater rates of morbidity and mortality due to these illnesses. Improved water supply and sanitation sectors are shown to be highly effective at reducing the rates of morbidity and mortality for many illnesses including ascariasis, cholera, diarrhea, dracunculiasis, hookworm infection, schistosomiasis, and trachoma. Diarrhea is an especially serious disease considering it is the largest killer of children under the age of five in Africa. Also, cholera is a very serious sickness in Zimbabwe especially considering the high human toll of the Zimbabwean cholera outbreak of 2008 and 2009.\n\nThe serious effects of unimproved water supply and sanitation on health and human dignity are reasons why one of the UN Millennium Development Goals was to halve \"the proportion of the population without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation\". One key facet of the Millennium Development Goal was limiting the number of people who openly defecate which UNICEF estimates is currently at 40% of Zimbabweans in rural areas. Open defecation can be an infringement on human dignity that lowers human capabilities and a risk to clean sanitation and health.\n\nBy creating improved water supply and sanitation facilities women's lives achieve greater agency. It is often women who are responsible for providing the water supply used by the family on a day-to-day basis. As a result of a family having clean bathrooms and a safe water supply within close proximity of its dwelling, women spend less time collecting water and more time pursuing their own ambitions or doing other necessary work. In addition the lack of clean bathrooms in many Zimbabwean schools prevent girls from attending school while menstruating. Thus, eliminating poor sanitation and increasing access to potable water greatly increases human dignity and capabilities.\n\n"}
