{"id": "14452520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14452520", "title": "1658 in philosophy", "text": "1658 in philosophy\n\n1658 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47588145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47588145", "title": "Abdul Hamid Qadri Badayuni", "text": "Abdul Hamid Qadri Badayuni\n\nBadayuni was born in Delhi, India on November 11, 1898. His father, Hakim Abdul Qayyum, died 20 days after he was born. His grandfather, Abdul Majid Qadri, was a Shaikh of Qadri Sufi Order. He received his religious education from his uncle Abdul Qadir, and studied Islamic Medicine in Delhi with Hakim Ajmal Khan. The scholars of Badayun were active in dissemination of their Aqidah in refutation of sects which they considered heretical.\n\nBadayuni studied Islamic Sciences at Madrasa Qadiriya and Madrasa Ilahiya, Kanpur. \nIn the Khilafat Movement, he was a member of the Central Khilafat Committee of Bombay. He took a stand against the Shuddhi movement, which was initiated by Hindu Arya Samajis to reconvert Indian Muslims to Hinduism. Abdul Hamid left the Indian National Congress and joined \"Markazi Tableeg al-Islam\" to oppose the Shuddhi Movement and actively worked to prevent the reversion of Muslims to Hinduism with Naeem-ud-Deen Muradabadi, Abdul Hafiz Qadri, Syed Peer Jamaat Ali Shah and Syed Abu al-Hasanat Qadri.\n\nHe was a member of the All India Muslim League Council beginning in 1937. He neutralized the influence of Pro-Congress Deobandi Scholar Hussain Ahmad Madni in Silhat and Bengal in favor of the Muslim League. The resolution for the creation of Pakistan was adopted on March 23, 1940. He spoke in favor of the resolution at Minto Park, Lahore. At the All India Sunni Conference held at Banaras in 1946 and Peer Jamaat Ali Shah declared Muhammad Ali Jinnah a Muslim and Maulana Abdul Hamid supported Syed Jamaat Ali Shah and spoke for more than 3 hours in support of Quid-e-Azam & the Muslim League.\nBadayuni went to Hijaz in 1946 under the leadership of Muhammad Abdul Aleem Siddiqi to request that the Saudi Government end the Hajj Tax and also to explain the mission of the Muslim League to create an independent Pakistan. He visited Haramain Sharifain 22 times and met many Muslim Leaders. He was a founding member of the Council of Islamic Ideology and also held the post of President of Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan which was a prominent body of the Sunni Barelvi movement in Pakistan. He was at the forefront of Majlis-e-Tahaffuz-e-Khatme Nabuwwat and was jailed for three months in Karachi. He believed that non-Muslims should not be made ministers in an Islamic nation. He raised the demand of making Pakistan an Islamic nation and view of Ulama should be given preference over secular law. He was on the forefront of persecuting the Ahmadiyyah and demanded that the Ahmadi should be declared non Muslim, and through All India Muslim league he demanded that Ahmadi should not be made members of the Muslim League.\n\nHe authored many books in Urdu, Arabic & English and wrote devotional poetry. \n\nBadayuni died in Karachi on July 20, 1970 (15 Jamadi-al-Aula 1390 Hijri) and was buried on the grounds of the Islamic College located on Manghopir Road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "159182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159182", "title": "Ali Shariati", "text": "Ali Shariati\n\nAli Shariati Mazinani (, 23 November 1933 – 21 June 1975) was an Iranian revolutionary and sociologist who focused on the sociology of religion. He is held as one of the most influential Iranian intellectuals of the 20th century and has been called the \"ideologue of the Iranian Revolution\", although his ideas ended up not forming the basis of the Islamic Republic.\n\nAli Shariati (Ali Masharati) was born in 1933 in Kahak (a village in Mazinan), a suburb of Sabzevar, in northeastern Iran. His father's family were clerics. His father, Mohammad-Taqi, was a teacher and Islamic scholar. In 1947, he opened the Centre for the Propagation of Islamic Truths in Mashhad, in Khorasan Province. It was a social Islamic forum which became embroiled in the oil nationalisation movement of the 1950s. Shariati's mother was from a small land-owning family. His mother was from Sabzevar, a little town near Mashhad.\n\nIn his years at the Teacher's Training College in Mashhad, Shariati came into contact with young people who were from less privileged economic classes of society, and for the first time saw the poverty and hardship that existed in Iran during that period. At the same time, he was exposed to many aspects of Western philosophical and political thought. He attempted to explain and offer solutions for the problems faced by Muslim societies through traditional Islamic principles interwoven with, and understood from, the point of view of modern sociology and philosophy. His articles from this period for the Mashhad daily newspaper, \"Khorasan\", display his developing eclecticism and acquaintance with the ideas of modernist thinkers such as Jamal al-Din al-Afghani, Sir Allama Muhammad Iqbal of Pakistan, among Muslims, and Sigmund Freud and Alexis Carrel.\n\nIn 1952, he became a high-school teacher and founded the Islamic Students' Association, which led to his arrest following a demonstration. In 1953, the year of Mossadeq's overthrow, he became a member of the National Front. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Mashhad in 1955. In 1957, he was arrested again by the Iranian police, along with sixteen other members of the National Resistance Movement.\n\nShariati then managed to get a scholarship for France, where he continued his graduate studies at the Sorbonne in Paris. He left Paris after earning a PhD in sociology in 1964 from the Sorbonne. During this period in Paris, Shariati started collaborating with the Algerian National Liberation Front (FLN) in 1959. The following year, he began to read Frantz Fanon and translated an anthology of his work into Persian. Shariati introduced Fanon's thought into Iranian revolutionary émigrée circles. He was arrested in Paris on 17 January 1961 during a demonstration in honour of Patrice Lumumba.\n\nThe same year he joined Ebrahim Yazdi, Mostafa Chamran and Sadegh Qotbzadeh in founding the Freedom Movement of Iran abroad. In 1962, he continued studying sociology and history of religions, and followed the courses of Islamic scholar Louis Massignon, Jacques Berque and the sociologist Georges Gurvitch. He also came to know the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre that same year, and published Jalal Al-e Ahmad's book \"Gharbzadegi\" (or \"Occidentosis\") in Iran.\n\nShariati then returned to Iran in 1964 where he was arrested and imprisoned for engaging in subversive political activities while in France. He was released after a few weeks, at which point he began teaching at the University of Mashhad.\n\nShariati then went to Tehran where he began lecturing at the Hosseiniye Ershad Institute. These lectures were hugely popular among his students and were spread by word of mouth throughout all economic sectors of society, including the middle and upper classes, where interest in his teachings began to grow immensely.\n\nHis continued success again aroused the interest of the government, which arrested him as well as many of his students. Widespread pressure from the people, and an international outcry, eventually led to his release on 20 March 1975, after eighteen months in solitary confinement.\n\nShariati was allowed to leave for England. He died three weeks later in a Southampton hospital under \"mysterious circumstances\" although in Ali Rahnema's biography of Shariati, he is said to have died of a fatal heart attack. He is buried next to Sayyidah Zaynab, the granddaughter of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, and the daughter of Ali, in Damascus, Syria, where Iranian pilgrims often visit.\n\nShariati sought to revive the revolutionary currents of Shiism. His interpretation of Shiism encouraged revolution in the world, and promised salvation after death. Shariati referred to his brand of Shiism as \"red Shiism\" which he contrasted with non-revolutionary \"black Shiism\" or Safavid Shiism. His ideas have been compared to the Catholic Liberation Theology movement founded in South America by Peruvian Gustavo Gutierrez and Brazilian Leonardo Boff.\n\nShariati was a prominent Islamist philosopher who argued that a good society would conform to Islamic values. He suggested that the role of government was to guide society in the best possible manner rather than manage it in the best possible way. He believed that the most learned members of the Ulema (clergy) should play a leadership role in guiding society because they best understand how to administer an Islamic value system based on the teachings of the Prophets of God and the 12 Shia Twelver Imams. He argued that the role of the clergy was to guide society in accordance with Islamic values to advance human beings towards reaching their highest potential—not to provide/serve the hedonistic desires of individuals as in the West.\n\nShariati's works were highly influenced by the Third Worldism that he encountered as a student in Paris—ideas that class war and revolution would bring about a just and classless society—from one side, and the epistemic decolonisation thinking of his time from the other side. He is said to have adopted the idea of \"Gharbzadegi\" from Jalal Al-e Ahmad and given it \"its most vibrant and influential second life\".\n\nHe sought to translate these ideas into cultural symbols of Shiism that Iranians could relate to. Shariati believed Shia should not merely await the return of the 12th Imam, but should actively work to hasten his return by fighting for social justice, \"even to the point of embracing martyrdom,\" saying \"everyday is Ashoura, every place is Karbala\".\n\nWhen he was writing the three letters to Fanon, unlike him, Shariati believed that it is not true that we have to put away religion to fight imperialism. He felt that people could fight imperialism solely by recovering their culture identity. In some countries such an identity was intertwined with fundamental religious beliefs. Shariati refers to the maxim of returning to ourselves.\n\nIt seems that his eagerness to socialism begun with the translation of the book \"Abu Zarr: The God-Worshipping Socialist\" by an Egyptian thinker namely Abdul Hamid Jowdat-al-Sahar (). According to this book, Abu Zarr was the very first socialist. Then, Shariarti's father declared that his son believed that the principles of Abu Zarr are fundamental. Even some thinkers described Shariati as the Abu Zarr of Modern Time in Iran. Of all his thoughts, there is his insistence on the necessity of revolutionary action. Shariati believed that Marxism could not provide the Third World with the ideological means for its own liberation. One of his premises was that Islam by nature is a revolutionary ideology. Therefore, Islam could relate to the modern world as an ideology. According to Shariati, the historical and original origin of human problems was the emergence of private ownership. He believed that in the modern era, the appearance of the machine was the second most fundamental change in the human condition. In fact, private ownership and the emergence of the machine, if considered one of two curves of history, belong to the second period of history. The first period is collective ownership. However, Shariati gave a critique about the historical development of religion and the modern philosophical and ideological movements and their relationship to both private ownership and the emergence of the machine.\n\nShariati developed the idea of the social, cultural and historical contingencies of religious knowledge in sociology. He believed in the earthly religion and in the social context in which the meaning of society is construed. He also emphasized that he understood religion historically because he was a sociologist. He said he was concerned with the historical and social Tawhid not with the truth of the exalted book of Quran or Muhammad or Ali.\n\nCompletely contrary to Hegel and his philosophy of history, Shariati believed that it is not true that the civilized human is less consciousness than modern people but rather there is a difference between them. The civilized man could talk on himself more that universe and the new people are so concerned with reality and universe that there is no place for himself and mysticism and religion. Of course he knows the movement of soul in Hegel’s philosophy and history in one sense as right.\n\nIn the first place Shariati criticised western liberal democracy. He pointed out that there is a direct relationship between democracy, liberalism and the plundering of nations. He believed that liberal democracy is the enemy of humankind. He also referred to the fact that the ruling economic system of liberal democracy is unjust and contrary to the rights of people. He maintained that in such a society, someone who is weak is already subjected to defeat and annihilation. There are basic foundations in Shariati’s thoughts and his criticism of liberal democracy. The first foundation is related to the contrast between the religious worldview and the non-religious one. He explained history, society and humanity according to a monistic worldview. He explained liberalism as something with inequality and discrimination. Freedom and equality based on spirituality were the very basis of pre-modern societies which were devastated in one period of history. \n\nShariati believed that the government of Imam Ali could be considered the best form of democracy. On this occasion, he tried to interpret the behavior of Imam Ali in contrast with his enemy. He called this democracy Commitment democracy. It appears that Shariati did not accept the western definition of democracy although he had no problem with democracy. According to him, a religious government is the democratic right of Muslim citizens. He believed that one of the basic problems of western democracy is demagogy. Nowadays the votes of voters direct to special channels with the help of advertising instruments. In such a condition only one who is critically conscious can dispose of distractions and surface-level arguments, and vote effectively for themselves and their communities. He maintains that the western democracy based on gold, cruelty and tricking (Zar, Zour va Tazvir) is an anti-revolutionary regime which is different with ideological Guidance.\n\nFor explaining better the commitment democracy, he at first divides between two concepts. One of them is Syasat and the other is politic. Syasat is a philosophy by government that want to have the responsibility of changing and becoming the society not its being and existence. In fact Syasat is a progressive and dynamic thing. The aim of government in the philosophy of Syasat is to change social foundations, institutions and even all the norms of society namely culture, morality and desires etc. in simple word, Syasat want to make exist the people. In contrary, there is no making in politic. In other word politic is follow of having people not making them. Of course Shariati prefers Syasat on politic because the former is more progressive. He considers with making human(Ensan Sazi). In fact his utopia is constructed with three concepts of Gnosis, equality and freedom. Commitment democracy appeared out of his lecture in Hoseyniyeh Ershad; a famous lecture with the name of Ummah and Imamate. According to him, Imam is one who want to guide humans not only in political, social and economic dimensions but also in all existential dimensions. He believes that Imam is alive everywhere and every time. In one hand Imamate is not a metaphysical belief but a revolutionary guide philosophy. He added that Imam has to guide people not according to his desire like dictator but to Islamic ideology and authentic values.\n\nSome scholars known him among the current of religious neo-thinkers. According to this stand point, Shariati accepted the rationality of west. Shariati known the theoretical foundation of west as civilization and called its appearances as Tajadod. He emphasized on accepting of civilization and criticized tajadod. He also believed that the civilization has to be considered as something deep. He also known very well of the importance of empirical science and knowledge. The empirical methodology appreciated by him. He also criticized traditionalism for regardless of scientific methodology. In other hand, he criticized Modernists because of confusing the western ideological theories with valid scientific epistemology. According to him, the knowledge of reason is self-evident. Therefore, he suggested to thought of reason as the axiom for understanding the other sources namely holy book or Quran, tradition, syrah and consensus. Also he denied consensus as a source for understang religion. He insisted on the concepts of knowledge and Time along with holy book and tradition. Consequently, he had emphasized on the important role of methodology and changing of viewpoint. Also Shariati, who was the fan of Georges Gurvitch in analysis of sociology, believes that there is no special pattern for analysis of social affairs and historical events. He thought that there is no unity of religion and society, but rather there are many religions and societies. Also shariati referred to active role of scholar of human science during investigation and scientific research. He believes that There is a relation between values of scholar and affecting of those values on the conclusions of investigation. He believes that we haven’t to extend the other conclusions of other western scholars to our society. However he given to criticize the western ideological schools such as nationalism, liberalism and Marxism and etc. He maintains that there is no conformity and correspondence between western ideology and Iranian society. According to him, the democracy is inconsistent with revolutionary evolution and progress. One of his criticism to western ideology is to regardless imitation of those ideology. One of the other his criticism is to denying spirituality in the western ideology. In fact, those ideologies try to stop humans from arriving at transcendental goals and any evolutionary movements. In this occasion, he firmly criticized capitalism and at the same time, In contrary, he admired socialism because of guiding human to evolution and freeing from utilitarianism. He firmly criticized Karl Marx. According to Shariati, Because Karl Marx knows the economy as the beneath and foundation of human and society he has gone strayed. Just in contrary, sharia knows human as the foundation and origin of society not economy.\n\nAccording to Shariati, human history is composed of two stages, the stage of collectivity and the stage of private ownership. He explained that the first stage, collectivity, was concerned with social equality and spiritual oneness. But the second stage, which is the current era, could be considered as the domination of the many by one. The second stage began with the emergence of private ownership. The various types of private ownership in history have included slavery, serfdom, feudalism, and capitalism among others. According to the concept of social ownership, all material and spiritual resources are accessible to everyone. But monopoly polarised the human community. In fact, according to Shariati, private ownership is the main cause of all modern problems. These problems change men’s brotherhood and love to duplicity, deceit, hatred, exploitation, colonisation and massacre. The polarisation by monopoly manifested itself in different forms throughout history. For example, in ancient times there were slave economies which transferred to capitalist society in modern times. In other words, machinism, or the dependence on machines, can be considered the latest stage of private ownership. Machinism began in the nineteenth century and human beings have had to confront the many anxieties and problems arousing from it.\n\nThere are many adherents and opponents of Shariati’s views. But we have to pay attention to the point that the image of Shariati is not such that some revolutionary groups, in early days of Islamic republic of Iran, attributed to him. In fact, Shariati has an unknown figure and personality. Ali Khamenei knew Shariati as a pioneer of Islamic teaching according to the requirements of his generation. According to Sayyed Ali Khamenei, Shariati had also both positive and negative characteristics. Khamenei believes that it is unfair that we consider Shariati as someone who firmly disagreed with the Mullahs. One of the positive sides of Shariati was his ability to explain his thought progression with suitable and simple language for his generation. Shariati not only was not the opposition of Mullahs but rather he believes in the currents of Mullahs in Iran. Some Scholars like Elizabeth F. Thompson try to envisage some similarities between Shariati and his role in the Islamic revolution in Iran with Sayyed Qutb’s role in Egypt. One similarity is that both of them paved the way for the imminent revolution in Iran and Egypt. Both desired of Islamic cultural dominance. Both were fans of being revolutionary about ruling values and norms. They considered Islamism a third way between those of America and the Soviet Union. At the same time they were not wholly utopian and they were partly Islamic. Of course there are differences between them - Shariati was a leftist while Qutb was a conservative. According to Mahmoud Taleghani, Ali Shariati was a thinker who created a school for revolution. The school guided young people to revolutionary action. Beheshti believes that Shariati’s work was fundamental to Islamic revolution.\n\nAccording to Hamid Enayat, Shariati was not only a theorist but also an adherent of Islamic radicalism. Enayat believes that Shariati can be considered the founder of Islamic socialism. Enayat considers him to be one of the most beloved and popular individuals in Islamic radicalism and socialism. \n\nAccording to Hamid Elgar, Shariati was the number one ideologue of the Islamic revolution.\n\nDespite passing away at the young age of 43, he was the prolific author of \"more than a hundred books\", and the number of his publications goes up to some 200 if we include \"articles, seminar papers, and lecture series\", some of the most notable being:\nShariati translated many books into Persian. Besides the work of Abu Zarr mentioned above, he translated Jean-Paul Sartre's \"What Is Literature?\", and Che Guevara's \"Guerilla Warfare\". He also began to work on the translation of Franz Fanon's \"A Dying Colonialism\". He admired Amar Ouzegane as a major Marxist Muslim and began to translate his book \"Le meilleur combat\" (\"The Best Struggle\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57300423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57300423", "title": "Analytic theology", "text": "Analytic theology\n\nAnalytic theology (abbreviated as AT) refers to a growing body of theological literature resulting from the application of the methods and concepts of late twentieth-century analytic philosophy to theological writing and thought. In the last decade, various lectures, study centers, conference sections, academic journals and at least one monograph series have appeared with “Analytic Theology” in their title or description. The movement counts both philosophers and theologians in its ranks, but as the head-noun theology in the title indicates, a growing number of theologians with philosophical training are producing AT literature. Analytic theology is strongly related to the philosophy of religion but is wider in scope due to its willingness to engage topics not normally addressed in the philosophy of religion such as the Eucharist, sin, salvation, and eschatology. Given the types of historical philosophy that have funded analytic philosophy of religion, analytic theologians are frequently involved in retrieval theology as they revisit, re-appropriate, and modify older Christian solutions to theological and theological questions. Analytic theology has strong roots in Anglo-American analytic philosophy of religion in the last quarter of the 20th century as well as similarities, at times, to scholastic approaches to theology. However, the title analytic theology primarily refers to a resurgence of philosophical-theological work during the last 15 years by a community of scholars spreading outward from centers in the UK and US.\n\nHistorically and methodologically, AT is both a way of approaching theological works as well as a sociological or historical shift in academic theology.\n\nDue to its similarities to philosophical theology and philosophy of religion, offering a definition for analytic theology has been a challenge. Attempts at definitions have been given by individuals such as systematic theologian William J. Abraham, who defines analytic theology as “systematic theology attuned to the deployment of the skills, resources, and virtues of analytic philosophy. It is the articulation of the central themes of Christian teaching illuminated by the best insights of analytic philosophy.” Philosopher Michael Rea defines analytic theology as “the activity of approaching theological topics with the ambitions of an analytic philosopher and in a style that conforms to the prescriptions that are distinctive of analytic philosophical discourse. It will also involve, more or less, pursuing those topics in a way that engages the literature that is constitutive of the analytic, employing some of the technical jargon from that tradition, and so on. But, in the end, it is the style and the ambitions that are most central.” Cambridge theologian Sarah Coakley, by contrast, warns that attempts to set down an essentialist definition for analytic theology (i.e. a club that some are in and some are not welcome in) will distract from the productive work resulting from the recent flourishing of AT.\nMore specifically, analytic theology can be understood in a narrow and wide sense. When understood more widely, analytic theology is a method to be applied in theological works. Like other methodological approaches to theology (e.g. historical theology, retrieval theology, post-liberal theology), analytic theology, on this view, is a way of doing theological work that is independent of one’s theological commitments. In this wider sense, Muslims, Jews, and Christians could all apply the same analytic methods to their own theological work and thus be doing analytic theology. William Wood has called this the “formal model” of analytic theology.\nBy contrast, some are concerned that those participating in the analytic theology movement are doing more than just applying a particular method to their work. Given that most of its practitioners are still Christians, they wonder if analytic theology is also a theological program (i.e. it is committed to forwarding a certain body of theological beliefs). This then would be the narrower sense of analytic theology. In contrast to the formal method above, Wood suggests we could call this wider sense the “substantive model” of analytic theology. Here one does “theology that draws on the tools and methods of analytic philosophy to advance a specific theological agenda, one that is, broadly speaking, associated with traditional Christian orthodoxy. On this conception, the central task of analytic theology would be to develop philosophically well-grounded accounts of traditional Christian doctrines like the Trinity, Christology, and the atonement.” Wood is correct that the majority of analytic theologians are Christians who write in support of a broadly conciliar Orthodoxy. However, until statements by Christian analytic theologians can be cited that reject non-Christian (or even unorthodox Christian) conclusions as falling outside the boundaries of analytic theology, the “substantive model” may lack justification as a fair definition.\nFalling between these two poles may be a more moderate position. Oliver Crisp, one of the founders of the contemporary AT movement, comments that AT is indeed more than just a theological style of writing. It also involves work by theologians who hold that “there is some theological truth of the matter and that this truth of the matter can be ascertained and understood by human beings (theologians included!).” Such writers also hold to “an instrumental use of reason.” Crisp’s comment brings out a key attribute of analytic theology addressed below - a tendency towards theological realism.\nWhether one holds a wide, narrow or moderate view of analytic theology, “doing” analytic theology does not require undergoing a religious experience, participating in a church, or holding to any confessional statement. This openness makes more sense in contrast to the idea of doctrine, which involves the clarification and advancement of the teachings of a particular church or Christian community. \nAs a way of doing theology, analytic theology can often be identified by at least two, but usually three features: First there is the analytic method itself. Second is the focus on theological topics, such as incarnation or resurrection. There is not a hard boundary between analytic theology and analytic philosophy of religion. However, as noted in the introduction, analytic theology tends to treat a wider range of theological topics than does philosophy of religion. Whereas the latter might limit its focus to the existence of God, the problem of evil, and a very minimal concept of God (i.e. omniscience, omnipotence, omnibenevolence), Analytic Theologians assume the existence of God and press well into analysis of theological topics not often addressed by philosophy of religion. The third feature that characterizes most analytic theology is an engagement with the wider analytic philosophical or theological literature for concepts that can be applied to answer theological questions. Very often these concepts are deployed in the process of solving questions or conceptual “problems” that accompany certain theological beliefs (e.g. the two natures of Christ, or the question of free will in heaven). This literary aspect may in fact be as essential as the other two. For example, ideas such as speech-act theory or possible worlds semantics have been applied to theological questions involving divine revelation or foreknowledge. In other words, analytic theology involves not only theology written about with a certain analytic style but an application of ideas found in analytic philosophical literature. \n\nThe most frequently mentioned characteristic of analytic theology is its broad methodological and thematic overlap with analytic philosophy. This is signaled by the shared term “analytic” in both phrases. An effort to sketch out, tentatively, some rhetorical features that characterised analytic philosophy was first made by philosopher Michael Rea in the introduction to the 2009 edited volume \"Analytic Theology\". The idea was that some of these ways of pursuing analysis of topics are found to characterize analytic theology. Rae’s five characteristics are:\n\n\n(Rea’s qualification of each of these principles as well as his discussion of disagreements over them should be consulted):\n\nImagine, for example, that a theologian writes that Jesus’s cry of dereliction from the cross indicates that the Trinity was broken or ruptured in a mysterious way during Jesus' crucifixion. First, in terms of differentiating AT from philosophy of religion, this is not something likely to be addressed in philosophy of religion. An analytic theologian might ask for what “broken” denotes given its connotations when used in reference to the God of Christianity. Is the original writer merely using rhetorical flare or are they trying to imply an actual ontological change in God? The analytic theologian, given her penchant for theory building, might list out the implications for other Christian doctrines depending on what meaning is intended by the word “broken.” The analytic theologian might turn to the history of theology, especially theologians who were philosophically careful, in search of concepts that help her speak about Christ being “forsaken” by God without doing so in a way that unnecessarily risks contradicting an orthodox understanding of the Trinity.\nAnalytic writers are willing to agree with others that there are many things about God that easily outstrip our conceptual abilities. Mystery or apophaticism are not incompatible with Analytic Theology. However the latter are more likely than others to press back when such concepts are used in a way that seem unnecessarily incoherent or risk contradicting other doctrines.\n\nAndrew Chignell has offered a different definition of analytic theology. “Analytic theology is a newly concerted, and well-funded effort on the part of philosophers of religion, theologians and religion scholars to re-engage and learn from one another instead of allowing historical institutional and stylistic barriers to keep them apart.” This definition is seen as significant because in some senses analytic theology is not substantially different methodologically than philosophical theology work done in the 1980s and 1990s. For example, [Thomas V. Morris’s] books The Logic of God Incarnate (1986) and Our Idea of God (1991) exemplify the method and style of those working in analytic theology, but predates the current trend by twenty years. \nFrom this perspective, what characterizes analytic theology is sociological as much as methodological. In addition to its stylistic features, analytic theology is a reconciliation between philosophers, theologians, and biblical studies scholars that was less present prior to the mid-2000s. Chignell mentions at least two edited volumes that attempted to bring together philosophers, theologians and scholars of religion to work on questions they had in common. It is difficult to say why the analytic theology movement did not gain momentum prior to Crisp and Rea’s efforts between 2004 and the 2009 publication of \"Analytic Theology\". In their respective fields, Crisp and Rea both witnessed a lack of eagerness for interdisciplinary interaction between philosophy and theology. One possibility for the delay is that more time was needed (in the mid-1990s) before works by Richard Swinburne, Thomas Flint, Nicholas Wolterstorff, Eleonore Stump, Alvin Plantinga and others made room in the theological academy for a movement like analytic theology. \nAn alternative, and significant factor, is the role the John Templeton Foundation played in funding projects connected with analytic theology. It is not inconsequential that the John Templeton Foundation has helped to fund analytic theology-type projects on three continents, including: North America, at the University of Notre Dame’s Center for Philosophy of Religion; in Europe, at the Munich School of Philosophy and University of Innsbruck; and, in the Middle East, at the Shalem Center and then later the Herzl Institute in Jerusalem. More recent Templeton-funded initiatives include a three-year project at Fuller Theological Seminary in California and the establishment of Logos Institute for Analytic and Exegetical Theology at the University of St. Andrews, Scotland.” \nWhatever the link between the rise of AT and funding might be, it is unlikely that funding alone accounts for the flourishing in work that has appeared in the last decade. It certainly has nothing to do with the rich precursors to the AT movement in the 1980’s and 1990’s. For this reason, understanding the 20th-century shifts in Anglo-American philosophy is important to understanding the appearance of analytic theology. \nHistorically demarcating movements (e.g. the Early Modern period of European history) is always imperfect. Many intellectual movements rise and fall like a bell curve rather than appearing suddenly as with clear boundaries. Analytic theology is no different. It should be thought of as the result of a wave cresting and not the result of a few contemporary individuals. Those currently working analytic theology derive their momentum from previous scholarship.\nContemporary analytic theology, represented by scholars like Oliver Crisp and Michael Rea, has its roots in three periods of Western philosophical history. These are indicated by the three “rising tide” levels in Figure 2. These periods include: (a) historic Scholastic philosophical theology (b) Mid 20th’ century responses by Christian philosophers to challenges of religious epistemology and religious language about God (c) a turn by Christian philosophers to work on more traditionally theological topics in the 1980s. \nAs noted above, analytic theology is a contemporary movement. It is a resurgence in philosophical-theology that began in the UK and US. However, this movement has always had a strong retrieval element to it. Retrieval theology refers to thinkers revisiting and reappropriating certain ideas from historical theology or philosophy. In analytic theology this retrieval often includes a revisitation to the works of theologian-philosophers like Augustine, Duns Scotus, Anselm, Thomas Aquinas, and Jonathan Edwards. How then did a contemporary movement wind up with roots in a period of the Western intellectual tradition that is hundreds of years old? \nIn Medieval Europe, a rich tradition of philosophical thought about theological topics, flourished for over a thousand years. This tradition of philosophical theology was brought into steep decline by the philosophy of Immanuel Kant and the theology of Friedrich Schleiermacher. In the 20th-century, logical positivism stands as the low water-mark of philosophical theology with its denial of the very possibility to talk meaningfully about God at all. As a result, a very robust dividing wall separated philosophy and theology by the middle of the 20th century. (See Figure 2). The story of analytic theology usually begins at this point with Logical Positivism. \nIn August 1929 a group of philosophers in Vienna, sometimes referred to as the Vienna Circle, published a manifesto containing a verificationist criterion to be used as a criteria by which statements could be analyzed in terms of meaning. Any statements that could not be broken down into empirically verifiable concepts were held to be meaningless thus preventing any metaphysical (i.e. theological) dialogue as counting as meaningful. \nIn the middle of the 20th century this verification principle began to crumble under the weight of its own strictness on at least four counts: (a) No satisfactory concept of empirical verifiability could be agreed upon; (b) Supporters of logical positivism like Carl Hempel argued that it seemed to invalidate less strictly worded universal generalizations of science; (c) Ordinary language philosophers argued that it rendered meaningless imperatives, interrogatives, and other performative utterances. (d) Furthermore, the verification principle itself was not empirically verifiable by its own standards. \nIn the 1950s logical positivism evaporated and with it the threat that metaphysical claims were meaningless. Conversation shifted to grounds that required speakers to show why theological or philosophical claims were true or false. This had a liberating effect on analytic philosophy. According to Nicholas Wolterstorff, the demise of Logical Positivism also had the effect of throwing doubt over any subsequent attempts, like Kant or the Logical Positivists, to point out a deep epistemological boundary between the knowable and unknowable, the thinkable and unthinkable. This put a crack in the wall that had divided theology and philosophy for centuries. Wolterstorff states that one result of the demise of logical positivism “has proved to be that the theme of limits on the thinkable and the assertible has lost virtually all interest for philosophers in the analytic tradition. Of course, analytic philosophers do still on occasion charge people with failing to think a genuine thought or make a genuine judgment. But the tacit assumption has come to be that such claims will always have to be defended on an individual, ad hoc, basis; deep skepticism reigns among analytic philosophers concerning all grand proposals for demarcating the thinkable from the unthinkable, the assertible from the non-assertible.” Wolterstorff also suggests that classical-foundationalism collapsed as the de facto theory of epistemology in philosophy, but it was not replaced by an alternative theory. What has resulted was an environment of dialogical pluralism where no major epistemological framework (e.g. classical foundationalism or idealism) is widely held.\nIn this context of dialogical pluralism, the state of play returned to one in which metaphysical or theistic belief could be taken as rational provided one could give justification for those beliefs. Two mechanisms for doing this became popular: Reformed Epistemology (See. Alvin Plantinga & Nicholas Wolterstorff) and evidentialist approaches that made use of Bayesian probability (See. Richard Swinburne). Either way, logical argumentation and rational coherence remained important for such beliefs. In addition to arguments for rational belief in God, Christian philosophers also began to give arguments for the rationality of various aspects of belief within a theistic worldview. Examples here would be the coherence of certain traditional attributes of God or the possibility that the existence of God was not logically incompatible with the existence of evil in the world). \nIn 1978 the [Society of Christian Philosophers] was formed. Six years later Alvin Plantinga delivered his famous presidential addresses “Advice to Christian Philosophers” in which he signaled the need for Christians working in that field to do more than follow the assumptions and approaches to philosophy accepted in the wider field, given that many of those assumptions were antithetical to Christianity. He goes on to write that\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s Christian philosophers did, in fact, begin to turn much of their efforts to explicating questions unique to Christian theology, thereby setting the precedent for the type of work done in analytic theology. The decades saw the production of more literature by Christian philosophers treating theological topics such as the attributes of God the atonement by scholars like[Richard Swinburne. However, much of that work remained largely appreciated by Christian philosophers and less so by Christian theologians. As noted in the analytic theology Defined as a Movement section, both Oliver Crisp and Michael Rea found that philosophers and theologians were not interacting and sharing resources as late as the mid-2000s. It was in the mid-2000s at Notre Dame that they floated the idea of an edited volume aimed at bringing philosophers and theologians together to work on theological questions with a methodology tuned to the style and resources of analytic philosophy.\nIt was with the publication of this volume that AT began to take off and get attention, both positive and negative, in philosophical and theological circles. In 2012 a session at the American Academy of Religion was dedicated to discussing the volume, followed by several articles in volume 81 the AAR journal. In 2013 the Journal of analytic theology was begun, which is now in its sixth year. In 2015, Thomas McCall, professor of Theology at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School published An Invitation to Analytic Christian Theology with IVP. The following year at the 2016 Evangelical Theological Society annual conference a series of papers were given interacting with McCall’s book to a packed room. By the close of the second decade of the 21st-century, several multiple year projects have been funded at graduate level institutions that focus on Analytic Theology. Edited volumes, such as those in the Oxford Studies in analytic theology series, continue to be released. Several dissertations have now been published, as monographs, that treat theological topics in an Analytic Style, and both the AAR and ETS continue to have regular sections devoted to papers on Analytic Theology.\n\nIn a 2013 volume of the Journal of the American Academy of Religion, Andrew Chignell notes that some of the reviewers and writers in the 2009 analytic theology edited volume wondered what the difference, if any, was between analytic theology and philosophical theology. Chignell’s definition brings out an important question. Similarly one might ask what the difference between analytic theology and the Analytic Philosophy of Religion is. Demarcating boundaries between disciplines can be difficult. This is no different with analytic theology. Therefore, suggestions will be disputed. However, here are a few distinctions. \n\nAnalytic theology thus sits at the boundaries between a number of disciplines as suggested by Figure 3.\n\nWhy would students and scholars want to do theological work in an analytic style? At least three motivations exist:\n\n\nSome of the following concerns have been voiced over analytic theology. First, “Why do analytic theologians have such conservative theological views?” In other words, is AT just a theological project? Second, “Why do analytic theologians ignore historical-critical biblical studies?” The worry here is also stated as, \"Analytic Theologians seem to treat the Bible as a sourcebook for propositions to insert into logical arguments.\" Thirdly, similar to the second worry, \"Does AT genuinely engage Biblical narrative?\" Fourth, \"Is Analytic Theology genuinely theology is it just philosophy dressed in theological clothing?\"\n\nOne of the best ways to become acquainted with a style of work or a movement is to become acquainted with works that are considered to be good examples of that style. As noted in the article above, prior to the mid-2000s most of the scholars doing something like analytic theology were Christian philosophers working on their own projects.\n\nGiven its dual citizenship in theology and philosophy, nothing prevents philosophers, with theological skills, or theologians, with philosophical training, from doing analytic theology. One should expect the scholar’s particular strengths, theology versus philosophy, to take the leading role in their writing. Some of the best work resourced by analytic theologians have been done by philosophers, including nearly all of the past presidents of the Society of Christian Philosophers. Although artificial, an attempt to list out some leading lights in terms of “generations”\n\n\nThe literature representative of analytic theology is growing rapidly. A few examples include: \"Analytic Theology: New Essays in the Philosophy of Theology\" (2009) edited by Oliver Crisp and Michael Rea; \"Analytic Theology: A Bibliography\" (2012) by William Abraham, \"An Invitation to Analytic Christian Theology\" (2015) by Thomas H. McCall; \"the Journal of Analytic Theology\", the \"TheoLogica\" journal. Interested scholars should consult the growing series of titles under the Oxford Studies in Analytic Theology. There are nine titles in the series as of 2018. The PBS series Closer to Truth, released an episode on analytic theology in 2018. Finally, as noted in the sections on the history of analytic theology, there is a much wider body of literature published between 1970 and the 2009 release of the analytic theology that represents the kind of work analytic theologians value and use in their more recent works.\n\nGiven the above history, it is not unreasonable to suggest that analytic theology had its birth in an Anglo-American world of analytic philosophy. This is in contrast to the German Idealist context of much early 20th-century theology (e.g. Barth, Rahner). Since the publication of the 2009 analytic theology volume, and with the help of several Templeton grants, analytic theology is being done in the UK, USA, Germany, and Israel. Individual scholars who would count themselves as Analytic Theologians, or supporters of AT, can be found at institutions in the following countries or regions: Spain, Israel, Brazil, France, the UK, Austria, Scandinavia, and North America. \nCurrently, there are several centers of study where analytic theology is being actively worked on in a departmental setting. These include: Fuller Theological Seminary, the Logos Institute at St. Andrews University, the Center for Philosophy of Religion at Notre Dame University, and the University of Innsbruck.\n"}
{"id": "350258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350258", "title": "Bernard-Henri Lévy", "text": "Bernard-Henri Lévy\n\nBernard-Henri Lévy (; ; born 5 November 1948) is a French public intellectual, media personality, and author. Often referred to in France simply as BHL, he was one of the leaders of the \"Nouveaux Philosophes\" (New Philosophers) movement in 1976. \"The Boston Globe\" has said that he is \"perhaps the most prominent intellectual in France today\". His opinions, political activism and publications have also been the subject of several controversies over the years.\n\nLévy was born in 1948 in Béni Saf, French Algeria, to an affluent Algerian Jewish family. His family moved to Paris a few months after his birth. His father, André Lévy, was the founder and manager of a timber company, Becob, and became a multimillionaire from his business.\nHe is the brother of Philippe Levy and .\n\nAfter attending the Lycée Louis-le-Grand in Paris, Lévy made his way into the elite and highly selective École Normale Supérieure in 1968, from which he graduated with a degree in philosophy. His professors there included prominent French intellectuals and philosophers Jacques Derrida and Louis Althusser.\n\nLévy became a pre-eminent journalist, having started his career as a war correspondent for \"Combat\", the newspaper founded underground by Albert Camus during the German occupation of France. In 1971, Lévy travelled to the Indian subcontinent, and was based in Bangladesh covering the Bangladesh Liberation War against Pakistan. He was inspired by a call for an International Brigade to aid Bangladeshi freedom fighters made by André Malraux. He subsequently spent part of 1972 working as a civil servant for the Bangladesh Ministry of Economy and Planning. This experience was the source of his first book, \"Bangla-Desh, Nationalisme dans la révolution\" (\"Bangladesh, Nationalism in the Revolution\", 1973). He visited Bangladesh in 2014 to speak at the launch of the first Bengali translation of this book and to open a memorial garden for Malraux at Dhaka University.\n\nReturning to Paris, Lévy became known as a founder of the New Philosophers (\"Nouveaux Philosophes\") school. This was a group of young intellectuals who were disenchanted with communist and socialist responses to the near-revolutionary upheavals in France of May 1968, and who developed an uncompromising moral critique of Marxist and socialist dogmas. In 1977, the television show \"Apostrophes\" featured Lévy together with André Glucksmann as a \"nouveau philosophe\". In that year, he published \"Barbarism with a Human Face\" (\"La barbarie à visage humain\", 1977), arguing that Marxism was inherently corrupt. Throughout the 1970s, Lévy taught a course on epistemology at the University of Strasbourg and he also taught philosophy at the École Normale Supérieure.\n\nIn 1981, Lévy published \"L'Idéologie française\" (\"The French Ideology\"), arguably his most influential work, in which he offers a dark picture of French history. It was strongly criticised for its journalistic character and unbalanced approach to French history by some of the most respected French academics, including Marxism-critic Raymond Aron (see his \"Memoirs\").\n\nIn the 1990s, Lévy called for European and American intervention in the Bosnian War during the breakup of Yugoslavia. He spoke about the Serb POW camps which were holding Muslims. He referred to the Jewish experience in the Holocaust as providing a lesson that mass murder cannot be ignored by those in other nations.\n\nAt the end of the 1990s, with Benny Lévy and Alain Finkielkraut, Lévy founded an Institute on Levinassian Studies at Jerusalem, in honor of Emmanuel Levinas.\n\nHe is member of nonprofit advocacy group JCall. In March 2006, Lévy was one of twelve signatories of a letter entitled, \".\"' addressing concerns for free speech and thought in response to violent and deadly protests in the Muslim world related to the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy that arose in Denmark.\n\nIn 2003, Lévy wrote an account of his efforts to track the murderer of Daniel Pearl, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reporter who was taken captive and beheaded by Islamic extremists the previous year. At the time of Pearl's death, Lévy was visiting Afghanistan as French President Jacques Chirac's special envoy. He spent the next year in Pakistan, India, Europe and the United States trying to uncover why Pearl's captors held and executed him. The resulting book, \"Who Killed Daniel Pearl?\", argues it was because Pearl knew too much about the links between Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence and al-Qaeda. The book was strongly criticized by both experts and Pearl's own family, including wife Mariane Pearl who called Lévy \"a man whose intelligence is destroyed by his own ego\".\n\nThe book was condemned by William Dalrymple, a British historian of India and travel writer, and others, for its lack of rigour and its caricatured depictions of Pakistani society. Dalrymple also criticized Lévy's fictionalised account of Pearl's thoughts in the last moments of his life.\n\nAlthough Lévy's books have been translated into the English language since \"La Barbarie à visage humain\", his breakthrough in gaining a wider US audience was the publication of a series of essays between May and November 2005 for \"The Atlantic Monthly,\" later collected as a book. In preparation for the series, \"In the Footsteps of Tocqueville\", Lévy criss-crossed the United States, interviewing Americans, and recording his observations, with direct reference to his claimed predecessor, Alexis de Tocqueville. His work was published in serial form in the magazine and collected as a book by the same title. The book was widely criticized in the United States, with Garrison Keillor publishing a damning review on the front page of the \"New York Times Book Review\".\n\nIn February 2016, Lévy published a new book entitled \"L'Esprit du Judaisme\". An English version, \"The Genius of Judaism\", was published by Random House in January 2017. In his foreword he describes this work as \"a sequel, 40 years later\" to \"Testament de Dieu\", his earlier, widely considered seminal, opus. The book explores the reasons why the State of Israel is considered to be a litmus test for Jews and non-Jews alike; as well as the roots and causes of anti-Semitism where it existed, still exists, or is newly nascent. But, most of all, the book is devoted to Levy's ″defense of a certain idea of man and God, of history and time, of power, voice, light, sovereignty, revolt, memory, and nature—an idea that contains what I call, in homage to one of the few really great French writers to have understood some of its mystery, the genius of Judaism.″\n\nLévy directed the widely panned 1997 romance film \"Day and Night\". It is considered by critics the worst film of 1997 along with \"Batman & Robin\". The movie received a 3.5 million francs public subsidy through the \"Commission des avances sur recettes\", which at the time was chaired by Lévy.\n\nIn 2007, Italian conceptual artist, Francesco Vezzoli, created two commercials for an imaginary U.S. presidential campaign, in which he had actress Sharon Stone running against Bernard-Henri Lévy. His project entitled \"Democrazy,\" was shown at the 2007 Venice Biennale.\n\nBernard Henri Lévy is a favorite victim of pie thrower Noël Godin.\n\nIn September 2008, Lévy toured the United States to promote his book \"\".\n\nIn 2006, Lévy joined the British debate over Muslim women's veils by suggesting to \"The Jewish Chronicle\" that wearing a veil had the effect of dehumanizing the wearer by hiding her face – and said, alluding to a passage by Emmanuel Levinas, that \"the veil is an invitation to rape\".\n\nOn 24 June 2009, Lévy posted a video on Dailymotion in support of the Iranian protesters who were being repressed after the contested elections.\n\nHe is a member of the Selection Committee of the Editions Grasset, and he runs the \"La Règle du Jeu\" (\"The Rule of the Game\") magazine. He writes a weekly column in the magazine \"Le Point\" and chairs the Conseil de Surveillance of La Sept-Arte.\n\nThrough the 2000s, Lévy argued that the world must pay more attention to the crisis in Darfur. In \"Left in Dark Times\", he argued that the Darfur genocide was not a palatable issue for modern leftists because it did not provide a platform for the anti-American views with which he says leftist thought has become suffused.\n\nIn January 2010, he publicly defended Popes Pius XII and Benedict XVI against political attacks directed against them from within the Jewish community.\n\nAt the opening of the \"Democracy and its Challenges\" conference in Tel Aviv (May 2010) Lévy gave a very high estimation of the Israel Defense Forces, saying \"I have never seen such a democratic army, which asks itself so many moral questions. There is something unusually vital about Israeli democracy.\"\n\nLévy has reported from troubled zones during wartime, to attract public opinion, in France and abroad, over those political changes. In August 2008, Lévy reported from South Ossetia, Georgia, during the 2008 South Ossetia war; on that occasion he interviewed the President of Georgia, Mikheil Saakashvili.\n\nIn March 2011, he engaged in talks with Libyan rebels in Benghazi, and publicly promoted the international acknowledgement of the recently formed National Transitional Council. Later that month, worried about the 2011 Libyan civil war, he prompted and then supported Nicolas Sarkozy's seeking to persuade Washington, and ultimately the United Nations, to intervene in Libya to prevent a massacre in Benghazi.\n\nIn May 2011, Lévy defended IMF Chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn when Kahn was accused of sexually assaulting a chambermaid in New York City. Lévy questioned the credibility of the charges against Strauss-Kahn, asking \"The Daily Beast\", \"how a chambermaid could have walked in alone, contrary to the habitual practice of most of New York's grand hotels of sending a 'cleaning brigade' of two people, into the room of one of the most closely watched figures on the planet.\"\n\nIn May 2011, Lévy argued for military intervention in Syria against Bashar al-Assad after violence against civilians in response to the 2011 Syrian uprising. He repeated his position in a letter to the Weekly Standard in August 2013.\n\nOn 9 November 2011, his book, \"La guerre sans l'aimer\", which tells the story of his Libyan spring, was published.\n\nIn April 2013, he was convicted by a French court for libelling journalist Bernard Cassen.\n\nLévy curated a major art exhibition in 2013 entitled \"Adventures of truth – Painting and philosophy: a narrative\" at the Maeght Foundation.\n\nHe criticized the international community for their acts during the Bosnia genocide.\n\nLevy was in Kiev, Ukraine during the Maidan Revolution in February 2014, actively promoting the events. In February 2015, he performed his play \"Hotel Europa\" at the Kiev opera house on the first anniversary of the Euromaidan's toppling of the pro-Russian government of Victor Yanukovich.\n\nIn April 2014, he visited Bangladesh for the first time since 1972 to speak at the launch of the first Bengali translation of his first book \"Bangla-Desh, Nationalisme dans la révolution\" (\"Bangladesh, Nationalism in the Revolution\", 1973), and to open a memorial garden for Malraux at Dhaka University.\n\nOn 5 June 2018 he performed his one-man play \"Last Exit before Brexit\" at the Cadogan Hall in London. The play is a revised version of \"Hotel Europa\" and argues passionately that Brexit should be abandoned.\n\nLévy has also been regularly contributing to Project Syndicate since 2015.\n\nLévy's involvement with the Kurdish cause goes back to the early 1990s. On May 16, 2016, Bernard-Henri Lévy's new documentary film, \"Peshmerga\", was chosen by the Cannes film festival as a special screening to its official selection.\nThe movie itself is, as stated in its official Cannes presentation: \"The third part of a trilogy, opus three of a documentary made and lived in real time, the missing piece of the puzzle of a lifetime, the desperate search for enlightened Islam. Where is that other Islam strong enough to defeat the Islam of the fundamentalists? Who embodies it? Who sustains it? Where are the men and women who in word and deed strive for that enlightened Islam, the Islam of law and human rights, an Islam that stands for women and their rights, that is faithful to the lofty thinking of Averroes, Abd al-Qadir al-Jilani, Ibn Tufail, and Rumi?... Here, with this third film, this hymn to Kurdistan and the exception that it embodies, I have the feeling of possibly reaching my goal. Kurdistan is Sunnis and Shiites, Chaldeans, Assyrians, Aramaic-speaking Syrians living freely with Muslims, the memory of the Jews of Aqrah, secularism, freedom of conscience and belief. It is where one can run into a Jewish Barzani on the forward line of a front held, 50 kilometers from Erbil, by his distant cousin, a Muslim, Sirwan Barazi… Better than the Arab Spring. The Bosnian dream achieved. My dream. There is no longer really any doubt. Enlightened Islam exists: I found it in Erbil.\" A year later, Lévy said that \"Jews have a special obligation to support the Kurds,\" and that he hopes \"they will come say to the Peshmerga: 'For years now you have spilled your blood to defend the values of our shared civilization. Now it is our turn to defend your right to live freely and independently.'\"\n\nEarly essays, such as \"Le Testament de Dieu\" or \"L'Idéologie française\" faced strong rebuttals from noted intellectuals on all sides of the ideological spectrum, such as historian Pierre Vidal-Naquet and philosophers Cornelius Castoriadis, Raymond Aron, and Gilles Deleuze, who called Lévy's methods \"vile\".\n\nMore recently, Lévy was publicly embarrassed when his essay \"De la guerre en philosophie\" (2010) cited the writings of French \"philosopher\" Jean-Baptiste Botul. Botul's writings are actually well-known spoofs, and Botul himself is the purely fictional creation of a living French journalist and philosopher, Frédéric Pagès. The obviousness of the hoax led to suspicions that Levy had not read Botul, and that he consequently might have used a ghostwriter for his book. Responding in an opinion piece, Levy wrote: \"It was a truly brilliant and very believable hoax from the mind of a Canard Enchaîné journalist who remains a good philosopher all the same. So I was caught, as were the critics who reviewed the book when it came out. The only thing left to say, with no hard feelings, is kudos to the artist.\"\n\nIn the essay \"Une imposture française\", journalists Nicolas Beau and Olivier Toscer claim that Lévy uses his unique position as an influential member of both the literary and business establishments in France to be the go-between of the two worlds, which helps him to get positive reviews as marks of gratitude, while silencing dissenters.\n\nFor instance, Beau and Toscer noted that most of the reviews published in France for \"Who Killed Daniel Pearl?\" didn't mention strong denials about the book given by experts and Pearl's own family including wife Mariane Pearl who called Lévy \"a man whose intelligence is destroyed by his own ego\".\n\nLévy has been married three times. His eldest daughter by his first marriage to Isabelle Doutreluigne, Justine Lévy, is a best-selling novelist. He has a son, Antonin-Balthazar Lévy, by his second wife, Sylvie Bouscasse. He is currently married to French actress and singer Arielle Dombasle. The close relationship between Lévy and heiress and socialite Daphne Guinness has become something of an open secret known and acknowledged by most US society columnists since 2008. On 13 July 2010, Daphne Guinness confirmed the whole story in the UK press.\n\nLévy is proudly Jewish, and he has said that Jews ought to provide a unique Jewish moral voice in society and politics.\n\nLévy has been friends with Nicolas Sarkozy since 1983. Relations between them deteriorated during Sarkozy's 2007 presidential run in which Lévy backed the Socialist candidate and also described Sarkozy as \"A man with a warrior vision of politics\". However, they grew closer again after Sarkozy's victory. Much of his recent book, \"Left in Dark Times\", is devoted to explaining his refusal to support Sarkozy despite agreeing with him on many points, and his insistence on continuing to identify himself as a leftist despite rejecting much of modern leftist thought.\n\nIn 2004, his fortune amounts to 150 million euros. Owner of seven companies, its fortune comes essentially from the inheritance of his parents, then completed by stock exchange investments (he is in 2000 suspected of insider trading by the \"Commission des opérations de bourse\").\n\nLévy was one of six prominent Jewish public figures in Europe targeted for assassination by a Belgium-based Islamist militant group in 2008. The list included others in France such as Josy Eisenberg. That plot was reportedly foiled after the group's leader, Abdelkader Belliraj, was arrested based on unrelated murder charges from the 1980s.\n\nLévy's works have been translated into many different languages; below is an offering of works available in either French or English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292906", "title": "Biofeedback", "text": "Biofeedback\n\nBiofeedback is the process of gaining greater awareness of many physiological functions primarily using instruments that provide information on the activity of those same systems, with a goal of being able to manipulate them at will. Some of the processes that can be controlled include brainwaves, muscle tone, skin conductance, heart rate and pain perception. In biofeedback, you are connected to electrical sensors that help you receive information (feedback) about your body (bio).\n\nBiofeedback may be used to improve health, performance, and the physiological changes that often occur in conjunction with changes to thoughts, emotions, and behavior. Eventually, these changes may be maintained without the use of extra equipment, for no equipment is necessarily required to practice biofeedback.\n\nBiofeedback has been found to be effective for the treatment of headaches and migraines.\n\nInformation coded biofeedback is an evolving form and methodology in the field of biofeedback. Its uses may be applied in the areas of health, wellness and awareness. Biofeedback has its modern conventional roots in the early 1970s.\n\nOver the years, biofeedback as a discipline and a technology has continued to mature and express new versions of the method with novel interpretations in areas utilizing the electromyograph, electrodermograph, electroencephalograph and electrocardiogram among others.\nThe concept of biofeedback is based on the fact that a wide variety of ongoing intrinsic natural functions of the organism occur at a level of awareness generally called the \"unconscious\". The biofeedback process is designed to interface with select aspects of these \"unconscious\" processes.\n\nThe definition reads:\nBiofeedback is a process that enables an individual to learn how to change physiological activity for the purposes of improving health and performance. Precise instruments measure physiological activity such as brainwaves, heart function, breathing, muscle activity, and skin temperature. These instruments rapidly and accurately feed back information to the user. The presentation of this information—often in conjunction with changes in thinking, emotions, and behavior—supports desired physiological changes. Over time, these changes can endure without continued use of an instrument.\n\nA more simple definition could be:\nBiofeedback is the process of gaining greater awareness of many physiological functions primarily using instruments that provide information on the activity of those same systems, with a goal of being able to manipulate them at will. (Emphasis added by author.)\n\nIn both of these definitions, a cardinal feature of the concept is the association of the \"will\" with the result of a new cognitive \"learning\" skill. Some examine this concept and do not necessarily ascribe it simply to a willful acquisition of a new learned skill but also extend the dynamics into the realms of a behavioristic conditioning (7). Behaviorism contends that it is possible to change the actions and functions of an organism by exposing it to a number of conditions or influences. Key to the concept is not only that the functions are unconscious but that conditioning processes themselves may be unconscious to the organism. Information coded biofeedback relies primarily on the behavior conditioning aspect of biofeedback in promoting significant changes in the functioning of the organism.\n\nThe principle of \"information\" is both complex and, in part, controversial. The term itself is derived from the Latin verb informare which means literally \"to bring into form or shape\". The meaning of \"information\" is largely affected by the context of usage. Probably the simplest and perhaps most insightful definition of \"information\" was given by Gregory Bateson—\"Information is news of change\" or another as \"the difference that makes a difference\". Information may also be thought of as \"any type of pattern that influences the formation or transformation of other patterns\". Recognizing the inherent complexity of an organism, information coded biofeedback applies algorithmic calculations in a stochastic approach to identify significant probabilities in a limited set of possibilities.\n\nAn electromyograph (EMG) uses surface electrodes to detect muscle action potentials from underlying skeletal muscles that initiate muscle contraction. Clinicians record the surface electromyogram (SEMG) using one or more active electrodes that are placed over a target muscle and a reference electrode that is placed within six inches of either active. The SEMG is measured in microvolts (millionths of a volt).\n\nIn addition to surface electrodes, clinicians may also insert wires or needles intramuscularly to record an EMG signal. While this is more painful and often costly, the signal is more reliable since surface electrodes pick up cross talk from nearby muscles. The use of surface electrodes is also limited to superficial muscles, making the intramuscular approach beneficial to access signals from deeper muscles. The electrical activity picked up by the electrodes is recorded and displayed in the same fashion as the surface electrodes. Prior to placing surface electrodes, the skin is normally shaved, cleaned and exfoliated to get the best signal. Raw EMG signals resemble noise (electrical signal not coming from the muscle of interest) and the voltage fluctuates, therefore they are processed normally in three ways: rectification, filtering, and integration. This processing allows for a unified signal that is then able to be compared to other signals using the same processing techniques.\n\nBiofeedback therapists use EMG biofeedback when treating anxiety and worry, chronic pain, computer-related disorder, essential hypertension, headache (migraine, mixed headache, and tension-type headache), low back pain, physical rehabilitation (cerebral palsy, incomplete spinal cord lesions, and stroke), temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMD), torticollis, and fecal incontinence, urinary incontinence, and pelvic pain. Physical therapists have also used EMG biofeedback for evaluating muscle activation and providing feedback for their patients.\n\nA feedback thermometer detects skin temperature with a thermistor (a temperature-sensitive resistor) that is usually attached to a finger or toe and measured in degrees Celsius or Fahrenheit. Skin temperature mainly reflects arteriole diameter. Hand-warming and hand-cooling are produced by separate mechanisms, and their regulation involves different skills. Hand-warming involves arteriole vasodilation produced by a beta-2 adrenergic hormonal mechanism. Hand-cooling involves arteriole vasoconstriction produced by the increased firing of sympathetic C-fibers.\n\nBiofeedback therapists use temperature biofeedback when treating chronic pain, edema, headache (migraine and tension-type headache), essential hypertension, Raynaud's disease, anxiety, and stress.\n\nAn electrodermograph (EDG) measures skin electrical activity directly (skin conductance and skin potential) and indirectly (skin resistance) using electrodes placed over the digits or hand and wrist. Orienting responses to unexpected stimuli, arousal and worry, and cognitive activity can increase eccrine sweat gland activity, increasing the conductivity of the skin for electric current.\nIn \"skin conductance\", an electrodermograph imposes an imperceptible current across the skin and measures how easily it travels through the skin. When anxiety raises the level of sweat in a sweat duct, conductance increases. Skin conductance is measured in microsiemens (millionths of a siemens). In \"skin potential\", a therapist places an active electrode over an active site (e.g., the palmar surface of the hand) and a reference electrode over a relatively inactive site (e.g., forearm). Skin potential is the voltage that develops between eccrine sweat glands and internal tissues and is measured in millivolts (thousandths of a volt). In \"skin resistance\", also called galvanic skin response (GSR), an electrodermograph imposes a current across the skin and measures the amount of opposition it encounters. Skin resistance is measured in kΩ (thousands of ohms).\n\nBiofeedback therapists use electrodermal biofeedback when treating anxiety disorders, hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating), and stress. Electrodermal biofeedback is used as an adjunct to psychotherapy to increase client awareness of their emotions. In addition, electrodermal measures have long served as one of the central tools in polygraphy (lie detection) because they reflect changes in anxiety or emotional activation.\n\nAn electroencephalograph (EEG) measures the electrical activation of the brain from scalp sites located over the human cortex. The EEG shows the amplitude of electrical activity at each cortical site, the amplitude and relative power of various wave forms at each site, and the degree to which each cortical site fires in conjunction with other cortical sites (coherence and symmetry).\n\nThe EEG uses precious metal electrodes to detect a voltage between at least two electrodes located on the scalp. The EEG records both excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) that largely occur in dendrites in pyramidal cells located in macrocolumns, several millimeters in diameter, in the upper cortical layers. Neurofeedback monitors both slow and fast cortical potentials.\n\nSlow cortical potentials are gradual changes in the membrane potentials of cortical dendrites that last from 300 ms to several seconds. These potentials include the contingent negative variation (CNV), readiness potential, movement-related potentials (MRPs), and P300 and N400 potentials.\n\nFast cortical potentials range from 0.5 Hz to 100 Hz. The main frequency ranges include delta, theta, alpha, the sensorimotor rhythm, low beta, high beta, and gamma. The thresholds or boundaries defining the frequency ranges vary considerably among professionals. Fast cortical potentials can be described by their predominant frequencies, but also by whether they are synchronous or asynchronous wave forms. Synchronous wave forms occur at regular periodic intervals, whereas asynchronous wave forms are irregular.\n\nThe synchronous delta rhythm ranges from 0.5 to 3.5 Hz. Delta is the dominant frequency from ages 1 to 2, and is associated in adults with deep sleep and brain pathology like trauma and tumors, and learning disability.\n\nThe synchronous theta rhythm ranges from 4 to 7 Hz. Theta is the dominant frequency in healthy young children and is associated with drowsiness or starting to sleep, REM sleep, hypnagogic imagery (intense imagery experienced before the onset of sleep), hypnosis, attention, and processing of cognitive and perceptual information.\n\nThe synchronous alpha rhythm ranges from 8 to 13 Hz and is defined by its waveform and not by its frequency. Alpha activity can be observed in about 75% of awake, relaxed individuals and is replaced by low-amplitude desynchronized beta activity during movement, complex problem-solving, and visual focusing. This phenomenon is called alpha blocking.\n\nThe synchronous sensorimotor rhythm (SMR) ranges from 12 to 15 Hz and is located over the sensorimotor cortex (central sulcus). The sensorimotor rhythm is associated with the inhibition of movement and reduced muscle tone.\n\nThe beta rhythm consists of asynchronous waves and can be divided into low beta and high beta ranges (13–21 Hz and 20–32 Hz). Low beta is associated with activation and focused thinking. High beta is associated with anxiety, hypervigilance, panic, peak performance, and worry.\n\nEEG activity from 36 to 44 Hz is also referred to as gamma. Gamma activity is associated with perception of meaning and meditative awareness.\n\nNeurotherapists use EEG biofeedback when treating addiction, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), learning disability, anxiety disorders (including worry, obsessive-compulsive disorder and posttraumatic stress disorder), depression, migraine, and generalized seizures.\n\nA photoplethysmograph (PPG) measures the relative blood flow through a digit using a photoplethysmographic (PPG) sensor attached by a Velcro band to the fingers or to the temple to monitor the temporal artery. An infrared light source is transmitted through or reflected off the tissue, detected by a phototransistor, and quantified in arbitrary units. Less light is absorbed when blood flow is greater, increasing the intensity of light reaching the sensor.\n\nA photoplethysmograph can measure blood volume pulse (BVP), which is the phasic change in blood volume with each heartbeat, heart rate, and heart rate variability (HRV), which consists of beat-to-beat differences in intervals between successive heartbeats.\n\nA photoplethysmograph can provide useful feedback when temperature feedback shows minimal change. This is because the PPG sensor is more sensitive than a thermistor to minute blood flow changes. Biofeedback therapists can use a photoplethysmograph to supplement temperature biofeedback when treating chronic pain, edema, headache (migraine and tension-type headache), essential hypertension, Raynaud's disease, anxiety, and stress.\n\nThe electrocardiogram (ECG) uses electrodes placed on the torso, wrists, or legs, to measure the electrical activity of the heart and measures the interbeat interval (distances between successive R-wave peaks in the QRS complex). The interbeat interval, divided into 60 seconds, determines the heart rate at that moment. The statistical variability of that interbeat interval is what we call heart rate variability. The ECG method is more accurate than the PPG method in measuring heart rate variability.\n\nBiofeedback therapists use heart rate variability (HRV) biofeedback when treating asthma, COPD, depression, anxiety, fibromyalgia, heart disease, and unexplained abdominal pain. Research shows that HRV biofeedback can also be used to improve physiological and psychological wellbeing in healthy individuals.\n\nHRV data from both polyplethysmographs and electrocardiograms are analyzed via mathematical transformations such as the commonly-used fast Fourier transform (FFT). The FFT splits the HRV data into a power spectrum, revealing the waveform's constituent frequencies. Among those constituent frequencies, high-frequency (HF) and low-frequency (LF) components are defined as above and below .15 Hz, respectively. As a rule of thumb, the LF component of HRV represents sympathetic activity, and the HF component represents parasympathetic activity. The two main components are often represented as a LF/HF ratio and used to express sympathovagal balance. Some researchers consider a third, medium-frequency (MF) component from .08 Hz to .15 Hz, which has been shown to increase in power during times of appreciation.\n\nA pneumograph or respiratory strain gauge uses a flexible sensor band that is placed around the chest, abdomen, or both. The strain gauge method can provide feedback about the relative expansion/contraction of the chest and abdomen, and can measure respiration rate (the number of breaths per minute). Clinicians can use a pneumograph to detect and correct dysfunctional breathing patterns and behaviors. Dysfunctional breathing patterns include clavicular breathing (breathing that primarily relies on the external intercostals and the accessory muscles of respiration to inflate the lungs), reverse breathing (breathing where the abdomen expands during exhalation and contracts during inhalation), and thoracic breathing (shallow breathing that primarily relies on the external intercostals to inflate the lungs). Dysfunctional breathing behaviors include apnea (suspension of breathing), gasping, sighing, and wheezing.\n\nA pneumograph is often used in conjunction with an electrocardiograph (ECG) or photoplethysmograph (PPG) in heart rate variability (HRV) training.\n\nBiofeedback therapists use pneumograph biofeedback with patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders, asthma, chronic pulmonary obstructive disorder (COPD), essential hypertension, panic attacks, and stress.\n\nA capnometer or capnograph uses an infrared detector to measure end-tidal (the partial pressure of carbon dioxide in expired air at the end of expiration) exhaled through the nostril into a latex tube. The average value of end-tidal for a resting adult is 5% (). A capnometer is a sensitive index of the quality of patient breathing. Shallow, rapid, and effortful breathing lowers , while deep, slow, effortless breathing increases it.\n\nBiofeedback therapists use capnometric biofeedback to supplement respiratory strain gauge biofeedback with patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders, asthma, chronic pulmonary obstructive disorder (COPD), essential hypertension, panic attacks, and stress.\n\nRheoencephalography (REG), or brain blood flow biofeedback, is a biofeedback technique of a conscious control of blood flow. An electronic device called a rheoencephalograph [from Greek rheos stream, anything flowing, from rhein to flow] is utilized in brain blood flow biofeedback. Electrodes are attached to the skin at certain points on the head and permit the device to measure continuously the electrical conductivity of the tissues of structures located between the electrodes. The brain blood flow technique is based on non-invasive method of measuring bio-impedance. Changes in bio-impedance are generated by blood volume and blood flow and registered by a rheographic device. The pulsative bio-impedance changes directly reflect the total blood flow of the deep structures of brain due to high frequency impedance measurements.\n\nHemoencephalography or HEG biofeedback is a functional infrared imaging technique. As its name describes, it measures the differences in the color of light reflected back through the scalp based on the relative amount of oxygenated and unoxygenated blood in the brain. Research continues to determine its reliability, validity, and clinical applicability. HEG is used to treat ADHD and migraine, and for research.\n\nPressure can be monitored as a patient performs exercises while resting against an air-filled cushion. This is pertinent to physiotherapy. Alternatively, the patient may actively grip or press against an air-filled cushion of custom shape.\n\nMowrer detailed the use of a bedwetting alarm that sounds when children urinate while asleep. This simple biofeedback device can quickly teach children to wake up when their bladders are full and to contract the urinary sphincter and relax the detrusor muscle, preventing further urine release. Through classical conditioning, sensory feedback from a full bladder replaces the alarm and allows children to continue sleeping without urinating.\n\nKegel developed the perineometer in 1947 to treat urinary incontinence (urine leakage) in women whose pelvic floor muscles are weakened during pregnancy and childbirth. The perineometer, which is inserted into the vagina to monitor pelvic floor muscle contraction, satisfies all the requirements of a biofeedback device and enhances the effectiveness of popular Kegel exercises. Contradicting this, a 2013 randomized controlled trial found no benefit of adding biofeedback to pelvic floor muscle exercise in stress urinary incontinence. In another randomized controlled trial the addition of biofeedback to the training of pelvic floor muscles for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence, improved pelvic floor muscle function, reduced urinary symptoms, and improved of the quality of life.\n\nResearch has shown that biofeedback can improve the efficacy of pelvic floor exercises and help restore proper bladder functions. The mode of action of vaginal cones, for instance involves a biological biofeedback mechanism. Studies have shown that biofeedback obtained with vaginal cones is as effective as biofeedback induced through physiotherapy electrostimulation.\n\nIn 1992, the United States Agency for Health Care Policy and Research recommended biofeedback as a first-line treatment for adult urinary incontinence.\n\nBiofeedback is a major treatment for anismus (paradoxical contraction of puborectalis during defecation). This therapy directly evolved from the investigation anorectal manometry where a probe that can record pressure is placed in the anal canal. Biofeedback therapy is also a commonly used and researched therapy for fecal incontinence, but the benefits are uncertain. Biofeedback therapy varies in the way it is delivered. It is also unknown if one type has benefits over another. The aims have been described as to enhance either the rectoanal inhibitory reflex (RAIR), rectal sensitivity (by discrimination of progressively smaller volumes of a rectal balloon and promptly contracting the external anal sphincter (EAS)), or the strength and endurance of the EAS contraction. Three general types of biofeedback have been described, though they are not mutually exclusive, with many protocols combining these elements. Similarly there is variance of the length of both the individual sessions and the overall length of the training, and if home exercises are performed in addition and how. In rectal sensitivity training, a balloon is placed in the rectum, and is gradually distended until there is a sensation of rectal filling. Successively smaller volume reinflations of the balloon aim to help the person detect rectal distension at a lower threshold, giving more time to contract the EAS and prevent incontinence, or to journey to the toilet. Alternatively, in those with urge incontinence/ rectal hypersensitivity, training is aimed at teaching the person to tolerate progressively larger volumes. Strength training may involve electromyography (EMG) skin electrodes, manometric pressures, intra-anal EMG, or endoanal ultrasound. One of these measures are used to relay the muscular activity or anal canal pressure during anal sphincter exercise. Performance and progress can be monitored in this manner. Co-ordination training involves the placing of 3 balloons, in the rectum and in the upper and lower anal canal. The rectal balloon is inflated to trigger the RAIR, an event often followed by incontinence. Co-ordination training aims to teach voluntary contraction of EAS when the RAIR occurs (i.e. when there is rectal distension).\n\nCaton recorded spontaneous electrical potentials from the exposed cortical surface of monkeys and rabbits, and was the first to measure event-related potentials (EEG responses to stimuli) in 1875.\n\nDanilevsky published \"Investigations in the Physiology of the Brain\", which explored the relationship between the EEG and states of consciousness in 1877.\n\nBeck published studies of spontaneous electrical potentials detected from the brains of dogs and rabbits, and was the first to document alpha blocking, where light alters rhythmic oscillations, in 1890.\n\nSherrington introduced the terms neuron and synapse and published the \"Integrative Action of the Nervous System\" in 1906.\n\nPravdich-Neminsky photographed the EEG and event related potentials from dogs, demonstrated a 12–14 Hz rhythm that slowed during asphyxiation, and introduced the term electrocerebrogram in 1912.\n\nForbes reported the replacement of the string galvanometer with a vacuum tube to amplify the EEG in 1920. The vacuum tube became the de facto standard by 1936.\n\nBerger (1924) published the first human EEG data. He recorded electrical potentials from his son Klaus's scalp. At first he believed that he had discovered the physical mechanism for telepathy but was disappointed that the electromagnetic variations disappear only millimeters away from the skull. (He did continue to believe in telepathy throughout his life, however, having had a particularly confirming event regarding his sister). He viewed the EEG as analogous to the ECG and introduced the term \"elektenkephalogram\". He believed that the EEG had diagnostic and therapeutic promise in measuring the impact of clinical interventions. Berger showed that these potentials were not due to scalp muscle contractions. He first identified the alpha rhythm, which he called the Berger rhythm, and later identified the beta rhythm and sleep spindles. He demonstrated that alterations in consciousness are associated with changes in the EEG and associated the beta rhythm with alertness. He described interictal activity (EEG potentials between seizures) and recorded a partial complex seizure in 1933. Finally, he performed the first QEEG, which is the measurement of the signal strength of EEG frequencies.\n\nAdrian and Matthews confirmed Berger's findings in 1934 by recording their own EEGs using a cathode-ray oscilloscope. Their demonstration of EEG recording at the 1935 Physiological Society meetings in England caused its widespread acceptance. Adrian used himself as a subject and demonstrated the phenomenon of alpha blocking, where opening his eyes suppressed alpha rhythms.\n\nGibbs, Davis, and Lennox inaugurated clinical electroencephalography in 1935 by identifying abnormal EEG rhythms associated with epilepsy, including interictal spike waves and 3 Hz activity in absence seizures.\n\nBremer used the EEG to show how sensory signals affect vigilance in 1935.\n\nWalter (1937, 1953) named the delta waves and theta waves, and the contingent negative variation (CNV), a slow cortical potential that may reflect expectancy, motivation, intention to act, or attention. He located an occipital lobe source for alpha waves and demonstrated that delta waves can help locate brain lesions like tumors. He improved Berger's electroencephalograph and pioneered EEG topography.\n\nKleitman has been recognized as the \"Father of American sleep research\" for his seminal work in the regulation of sleep-wake cycles, circadian rhythms, the sleep patterns of different age groups, and the effects of sleep deprivation. He discovered the phenomenon of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep with his graduate student Aserinsky in 1953.\n\nDement, another of Kleitman's students, described the EEG architecture and phenomenology of sleep stages and the transitions between them in 1955, associated REM sleep with dreaming in 1957, and documented sleep cycles in another species, cats, in 1958, which stimulated basic sleep research. He established the Stanford University Sleep Research Center in 1970.\n\nAndersen and Andersson (1968) proposed that thalamic pacemakers project synchronous alpha rhythms to the cortex via thalamocortical circuits.\n\nKamiya (1968) demonstrated that the alpha rhythm in humans could be operantly conditioned. He published an influential article in \"Psychology Today\" that summarized research that showed that subjects could learn to discriminate when alpha was present or absent, and that they could use feedback to shift the dominant alpha frequency about 1 Hz. Almost half of his subjects reported experiencing a pleasant \"alpha state\" characterized as an \"alert calmness.\" These reports may have contributed to the perception of alpha biofeedback as a shortcut to a meditative state. He also studied the EEG correlates of meditative states.\n\nBrown (1970) demonstrated the clinical use of alpha-theta biofeedback. In research designed to identify the subjective states associated with EEG rhythms, she trained subjects to increase the abundance of alpha, beta, and theta activity using visual feedback and recorded their subjective experiences when the amplitude of these frequency bands increased. She also helped popularize biofeedback by publishing a series of books, including \"New Mind, New body\" (1974) and \"Stress and the Art of Biofeedback\" (1977).\n\nMulholland and Peper (1971) showed that occipital alpha increases with eyes open and not focused, and is disrupted by visual focusing; a rediscovery of alpha blocking.\n\nGreen and Green (1986) investigated voluntary control of internal states by individuals like Swami Rama and American Indian medicine man Rolling Thunder both in India and at the Menninger Foundation. They brought portable biofeedback equipment to India and monitored practitioners as they demonstrated self-regulation. A film containing footage from their investigations was released as \"Biofeedback: The Yoga of the West\" (1974). They developed alpha-theta training at the Menninger Foundation from the 1960s to the 1990s. They hypothesized that theta states allow access to unconscious memories and increase the impact of prepared images or suggestions. Their alpha-theta research fostered Peniston's development of an alpha-theta addiction protocol.\n\nSterman (1972) showed that cats and human subjects could be operantly trained to increase the amplitude of the sensorimotor rhythm (SMR) recorded from the sensorimotor cortex. He demonstrated that SMR production protects cats against drug-induced generalized seizures (tonic-clonic seizures involving loss of consciousness) and reduces the frequency of seizures in humans diagnosed with epilepsy. He found that his SMR protocol, which uses visual and auditory EEG biofeedback, normalizes their EEGs (SMR increases while theta and beta decrease toward normal values) even during sleep. Sterman also co-developed the Sterman-Kaiser (SKIL) QEEG database.\n\nBirbaumer and colleagues (1981) have studied feedback of slow cortical potentials since the late 1970s. They have demonstrated that subjects can learn to control these DC potentials and have studied the efficacy of slow cortical potential biofeedback in treating ADHD, epilepsy, migraine, and schizophrenia.\n\nLubar (1989) studied SMR biofeedback to treat attention disorders and epilepsy in collaboration with Sterman. He demonstrated that SMR training can improve attention and academic performance in children diagnosed with Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity (ADHD). He documented the importance of theta-to-beta ratios in ADHD and developed theta suppression-beta enhancement protocols to decrease these ratios and improve student performance. The Neuropsychiatric EEG-Based Assessment Aid (NEBA) System a device used to measure the Theta-to-Beta ratio was approved as a tool to assist in diagnosis of ADHD on July 15, 2013. However, the field has recently moved away from the measure. This move has been caused by the general change in the population norms in the past 20 years (most likely due to the change in the average amount of sleep in young people).\n\nFeré demonstrated the exosomatic method of recording of skin electrical activity by passing a small current through the skin in 1888.\n\nTarchanoff used the endosomatic method by recording the difference in skin electrical potential from points on the skin surface in 1889; no external current was applied.\n\nJung employed the galvanometer, which used the exosomatic method, in 1907 to study unconscious emotions in word-association experiments.\n\nMarjorie and Hershel Toomim (1975) published a landmark article about the use of GSR biofeedback in psychotherapy.\n\nMeyer and Reich discussed similar material in a British publication.\n\nJacobson (1930) developed hardware to measure EMG voltages over time, showed that cognitive activity (like imagery) affects EMG levels, introduced the deep relaxation method Progressive Relaxation, and wrote \"Progressive Relaxation\" (1929) and \"You Must Relax\" (1934). He prescribed daily Progressive Relaxation practice to treat diverse psychophysiological disorders like hypertension.\n\nSeveral researchers showed that human subjects could learn precise control of individual motor units (motor neurons and the muscle fibers they control). Lindsley (1935) found that relaxed subjects could suppress motor unit firing without biofeedback training.\n\nHarrison and Mortensen (1962) trained subjects using visual and auditory EMG biofeedback to control individual motor units in the tibialis anterior muscle of the leg.\n\nBasmajian (1963) instructed subjects using unfiltered auditory EMG biofeedback to control separate motor units in the abductor pollicis muscle of the thumb in his Single Motor Unit Training (SMUT) studies. His best subjects coordinated several motor units to produce drum rolls. Basmajian demonstrated practical applications for neuromuscular rehabilitation, pain management, and headache treatment.\n\nMarinacci (1960) applied EMG biofeedback to neuromuscular disorders (where proprioception is disrupted) including Bell Palsy (one-sided facial paralysis), polio, and stroke.\n\n\"While Marinacci used EMG to treat neuromuscular disorders, his colleagues used the EMG only for diagnosis. They were unable to recognize its potential as a teaching tool even when the evidence stared them in the face! Many electromyographers who performed nerve conduction studies used visual and auditory feedback to reduce interference when a patient recruited too many motor units. Even though they used EMG biofeedback to guide the patient to relax so that clean diagnostic EMG tests could be recorded, they were unable to envision EMG biofeedback treatment of motor disorders.\"\n\nWhatmore and Kohli (1968) introduced the concept of dysponesis (misplaced effort) to explain how functional disorders (where body activity is disturbed) develop. Bracing your shoulders when you hear a loud sound illustrates dysponesis, since this action does not protect against injury. These clinicians applied EMG biofeedback to diverse functional problems like headache and hypertension. They reported case follow-ups ranging from 6 to 21 years. This was long compared with typical 0-24 month follow-ups in the clinical literature. Their data showed that skill in controlling misplaced efforts was positively related to clinical improvement. Last, they wrote \"The Pathophysiology and Treatment of Functional Disorders\" (1974) that outlined their treatment of functional disorders.\n\nWolf (1983) integrated EMG biofeedback into physical therapy to treat stroke patients and conducted landmark stroke outcome studies.\n\nPeper (1997) applied SEMG to the workplace, studied the ergonomics of computer use, and promoted \"healthy computing.\"\n\nTaub (1999, 2006) demonstrated the clinical efficacy of constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT) for the treatment of spinal cord-injured and stroke patients.\n\nShearn (1962) operantly trained human subjects to increase their heart rates by 5 beats-per-minute to avoid electric shock. In contrast to Shearn's slight heart rate increases, Swami Rama used yoga to produce atrial flutter at an average 306 beats per minute before a Menninger Foundation audience. This briefly stopped his heart's pumping of blood and silenced his pulse.\n\nEngel and Chism (1967) operantly trained subjects to decrease, increase, and then decrease their heart rates (this was analogous to ON-OFF-ON EEG training). He then used this approach to teach patients to control their rate of premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), where the ventricles contract too soon. Engel conceptualized this training protocol as illness onset training, since patients were taught to produce and then suppress a symptom. Peper has similarly taught asthmatics who wheeze to better control their breathing.\n\nSchwartz (1971, 1972) examined whether specific patterns of cardiovascular activity are easier to learn than others due to biological constraints. He examined the constraints on learning integrated (two autonomic responses change in the same direction) and differentiated (two autonomic responses change inversely) patterns of blood pressure and heart rate change.\n\nSchultz and Luthe (1969) developed Autogenic Training, which is a deep relaxation exercise derived from hypnosis. This procedure combines passive volition with imagery in a series of three treatment procedures (standard Autogenic exercises, Autogenic neutralization, and Autogenic meditation). Clinicians at the Menninger Foundation coupled an abbreviated list of standard exercises with thermal biofeedback to create autogenic biofeedback. Luthe (1973) also published a series of six volumes titled \"Autogenic therapy\".\n\nFahrion and colleagues (1986) reported on an 18-26 session treatment program for hypertensive patients. The Menninger\nprogram combined breathing modification, autogenic biofeedback for the hands and feet, and frontal EMG training. The authors reported that 89% of their medication patients discontinued or reduced medication by one-half while significantly lowering blood pressure. While this study did not include a double-blind control, the outcome rate was impressive.\n\nFreedman and colleagues (1991) demonstrated that hand-warming and hand-cooling are produced by different mechanisms. The primary hand-warming mechanism is beta-adrenergic (hormonal), while the main hand-cooling mechanism is alpha-adrenergic and involves sympathetic C-fibers. This contradicts the traditional view that finger blood flow is controlled exclusively by sympathetic C-fibers. The traditional model asserts that, when firing is slow, hands warm; when firing is rapid, hands cool. Freedman and colleagues' studies support the view that hand-warming and hand-cooling represent entirely different skills.\n\nVaschillo and colleagues (1983) published the first studies of heart rate variability (HRV) biofeedback with cosmonauts and treated patients diagnosed with psychiatric and psychophysiological disorders. Lehrer collaborated with Smetankin and Potapova in treating pediatric asthma patients and published influential articles on HRV asthma treatment in the medical journal \"Chest\". The most direct effect of HRV biofeedback is on the baroreflex, a homeostatic reflex that helps control blood pressure fluctuations. When blood pressure goes up, the baroreflex makes heart rate go down. The opposite happens when blood pressure goes down. Because it takes about 5 seconds for blood pressure to change after changes in heart rate (think of different amounts of blood flowing through the same sized tube), the baroreflex produces a rhythm in heart rate with a period of about 10 seconds. Another rhythm in heart rate is caused by respiration (respiratory sinus arrhythmia), such that heart rate rises during inhalation and falls during exhalation. During HRV biofeedback, these two reflexes stimulate each other, stimulating resonance properties of the cardiovascular system caused by the inherent rhythm in the baroreflex, and thus causing very big oscillations in heart rate and large-amplitude stimulation of the baroreflex. Thus HRV biofeedback exercises the baroreflex, and strengthens it. This apparently has the effect of modulating autonomic reactivity to stimulation. Because the baroreflex is controlled through brain stem mechanisms that communicate directly with the insula and amygdala, which control emotion, HRV biofeedback also appears to modulate emotional reactivity, and to help people suffering from anxiety, stress, and depression\n\nEmotions are intimately linked to heart health, which is linked to physical and mental health. In general, good mental and physical health are correlated with positive emotions and high heart rate variability (HRV) modulated by mostly high frequencies. High HRV has been correlated with increased executive functioning skills such as memory and reaction time. Biofeedback that increased HRV and shifted power toward HF (high-frequencies) has been shown to lower blood pressure On the other hand, LF (low-frequency) power in the heart is associated with sympathetic vagal activity, which is known to increase the risk of heart attack.\nLF-dominated HRV power spectra are also directly associated with higher mortality rates in healthy individuals, and among individuals with mood disorders.\nAnger and frustration increase the LF range of HRV. Other studies have shown anger to increase the risk of heart attack, so researchers at the Heartmath Institute have made the connection between emotions and physical health via HRV.\n\nBecause emotions have such an impact on cardiac function, which cascades to numerous other biological processes, emotional regulation techniques are able to effect practical, psychophysiological change.\nMcCraty et al. discovered that feelings of gratitude increased HRV and moved its power spectrum toward the MF (mid-frequency) and HF (high-frequency) ranges, while decreasing LF (low-frequency) power.\nThe Heartmath Institute's patented techniques involve engendering feelings of gratitude and happiness, focusing on the physical location of the heart, and breathing in 10-second cycles.\nOther techniques have been shown to improve HRV, such as strenuous aerobic exercise, and meditation.\n\nNewton-John, Spense, and Schotte (1994) compared the effectiveness of Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) and Electromyographic Biofeedback (EMG-Biofeedback) for 44 participants with chronic low back pain. Newton-John et al. (1994) split the participants into two groups, then measured the intensity of pain, the participants' perceived disability, and depression before treatment, after treatment and again six months later. Newton-John et al.(1994) found no significant differences between the group which received CBT and the group which received EMG-Biofeedback. This seems to indicate that biofeedback is as effective as CBT in chronic low back pain. Comparing the results of the groups before treatment and after treatment, indicates that EMG-Biofeedback reduced pain, disability, and depression as much as by half.\n\nBudzynski and Stoyva (1969) showed that EMG biofeedback could reduce frontalis muscle (forehead) contraction. They demonstrated in 1973 that analog (proportional) and binary (ON or OFF) visual EMG biofeedback were equally helpful in lowering masseter SEMG levels.\nMcNulty, Gevirtz, Hubbard, and Berkoff (1994) proposed that sympathetic nervous system innervation of muscle spindles underlies trigger points.\n\nBudzynski, Stoyva, Adler, and Mullaney (1973) reported that auditory frontalis EMG biofeedback combined with home relaxation practice lowered tension headache frequency and frontalis EMG levels. A control group that received noncontingent (false) auditory feedback did not improve. This study helped make the frontalis muscle the placement-of-choice in EMG assessment and treatment of headache and other psychophysiological disorders.\n\nSargent, Green, and Walters (1972, 1973) demonstrated that hand-warming could abort migraines and that autogenic biofeedback training could reduce headache activity. The early Menninger migraine studies, although methodologically weak (no pretreatment baselines, control groups, or random assignment to conditions), strongly influenced migraine treatment.\nA 2013 review classified biofeedback among the techniques that might be of benefit in the management of chronic migraine.\n\nFlor (2002) trained amputees to detect the location and frequency of shocks delivered to their stumps, which resulted in an expansion of corresponding cortical regions and significant reduction of their phantom limb pain.\n\nFinancial traders use biofeedback as a tool for regulating their level of emotional arousal in order to make better financial decisions. The technology company Philips and the Dutch bank ABN AMRO developed a biofeedback device for retail investors based on a galvanic skin response sensor. Astor et al. (2013) developed a biofeedback based serious game in which financial decision makers can learn how to effectively regulate their emotions using heart rate measurements.\n\nA randomized study by Sutarto et al. assessed the effect of resonant breathing biofeedback (recognize and control involuntary heart rate variability) among manufacturing operators; depression, anxiety and stress significantly decreased.\n\nA 2012 observational study by Pacella et al. found a significant improvement in both visual acuity and fixation treating patients suffering from age-related macular degeneration or macular degeneration with biofeedback treatment through MP-1 microperimeter.\n\nMoss, LeVaque, and Hammond (2004) observed that \"Biofeedback and neurofeedback seem to offer the kind of evidence-based practice that the healthcare establishment is demanding.\" \"From the beginning biofeedback developed as a research-based approach emerging directly from laboratory research on psychophysiology and behavior therapy, The ties of biofeedback/neurofeedback to the biomedical paradigm and to research are stronger than is the case for many other behavioral interventions\" (p. 151).\n\nThe Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB) and the International Society for Neurofeedback and Research (ISNR) have collaborated in validating and rating treatment protocols to address questions about the clinical efficacy of biofeedback and neurofeedback applications, like ADHD and headache. In 2001, Donald Moss, then president of the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback, and Jay Gunkelman, president of the International Society for Neurofeedback and Research, appointed a task force to establish standards for the efficacy of biofeedback and neurofeedback.\n\nThe Task Force document was published in 2002, and a series of white papers followed, reviewing the efficacy of a series of disorders. The white papers established the efficacy of biofeedback for functional anorectal disorders, attention deficit disorder, facial pain and temporomandibular joint dysfunction, hypertension, urinary incontinence, Raynaud's phenomenon, substance abuse, and headache.\n\nA broader review was published and later updated, applying the same efficacy standards to the entire range of medical and psychological disorders. The 2008 edition reviewed the efficacy of biofeedback for over 40 clinical disorders, ranging from alcoholism/substance abuse to vulvar vestibulitis. The ratings for each disorder depend on the nature of research studies available on each disorder, ranging from anecdotal reports to double blind studies with a control group. Thus, a lower rating may reflect the lack of research rather than the ineffectiveness of biofeedback for the problem.\n\nThe randomized trial by Dehli et al. compared if the injection of a bulking agent in the anal canal was superior to sphincter training with biofeedback to treat fecal incontinence. Both methods lead to an improvement of FI, but comparisons of St Mark's scores between the groups showed no differences in effect between treatments.\n\nYucha and Montgomery's (2008) ratings are listed for the five levels of efficacy recommended by a joint Task Force and adopted by the Boards of Directors of the Association for Applied Psychophysiology (AAPB) and the International Society for Neuronal Regulation (ISNR). From weakest to strongest, these levels include: not empirically supported, possibly efficacious, probably efficacious, efficacious, and efficacious and specific.\n\nLevel 1: Not empirically supported. This designation includes applications supported by anecdotal reports and/or case studies in non-peer-reviewed venues. Yucha and Montgomery (2008) assigned eating disorders, immune function, spinal cord injury, and syncope to this category.\n\nLevel 2: Possibly efficacious. This designation requires at least one study of sufficient statistical power with well-identified outcome measures but lacking randomized assignment to a control condition internal to the study. Yucha and Montgomery (2008) assigned asthma, autism, Bell palsy, cerebral palsy, COPD, coronary artery disease, cystic fibrosis, depression, erectile dysfunction, fibromyalgia, hand dystonia, irritable bowel syndrome, PTSD, repetitive strain injury, respiratory failure, stroke, tinnitus, and urinary incontinence in children to this category.\n\nLevel 3: Probably efficacious. This designation requires multiple observational studies, clinical studies, waitlist-controlled studies, and within subject and intrasubject replication studies that demonstrate efficacy. Yucha and Montgomery (2008) assigned alcoholism and substance abuse, arthritis, diabetes mellitus, fecal disorders in children, fecal incontinence in adults, insomnia, pediatric headache, traumatic brain injury, urinary incontinence in males, and vulvar vestibulitis (vulvodynia) to this category.\n\nLevel 4: Efficacious. This designation requires the satisfaction of six criteria:\n\n(a) In a comparison with a no-treatment control group, alternative treatment group, or sham (placebo) control using randomized assignment, the investigational treatment is shown to be statistically significantly superior to the control condition or the investigational treatment is equivalent to a treatment of established efficacy in a study with sufficient power to detect moderate differences.\n\n(b) The studies have been conducted with a population treated for a specific problem, for whom inclusion criteria are delineated in a reliable, operationally defined manner.\n\n(c) The study used valid and clearly specified outcome measures related to the problem being treated.\n\n(d) The data are subjected to appropriate data analysis.\n\n(e) The diagnostic and treatment variables and procedures are clearly defined in a manner that permits replication of the study by independent researchers.\n\n(f) The superiority or equivalence of the investigational treatment has been shown in at least two independent research settings.\n\nYucha and Montgomery (2008) assigned attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), anxiety, chronic pain, epilepsy, constipation (adult), headache (adult), hypertension, motion sickness, Raynaud's disease, and temporomandibular joint dysfunction to this category.\n\nLevel 5: Efficacious and specific. The investigational treatment must be shown to be statistically superior to credible sham therapy, pill, or alternative bona fide treatment in at least two independent research settings. Yucha and Montgomery (2008) assigned urinary incontinence (females) to this category.\n\nIn a healthcare environment that emphasizes cost containment and evidence-based practice, biofeedback and neurofeedback professionals continue to address skepticism in the medical community about the cost-effectiveness and efficacy of their treatments. Critics question how these treatments compare with conventional behavioral and medical interventions on efficacy and cost. The publication of white papers and rigorous evaluation of biofeedback interventions can address these legitimate questions and educate medical professionals, third-party payers, and the public about the value of these services.\n\nThe Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB) is a non-profit scientific and professional society for biofeedback and neurofeedback. The International Society for Neurofeedback and Research (ISNR) is a non-profit scientific and professional society for neurofeedback. The Biofeedback Foundation of Europe (BFE) sponsors international education, training, and research activities in biofeedback and neurofeedback. The Northeast Regional Biofeedback Association (NRBS) sponsors theme-centered educational conferences, political advocacy for biofeedback friendly legislation, and research activities in biofeedback and neurofeedback in the Northeast regions of the United States. The Southeast Biofeedback and Clinical Neuroscience Association (SBCNA) is a non-profit regional organization supporting biofeedback professionals with continuing education, ethics guidelines, and public awareness promoting the efficacy and safety of professional biofeedback. The SBCNA offers an Annual Conference for professional continuing education as well as promoting biofeedback as an adjunct to the allied health professions. The SBCNA was formally the North Carolina Biofeedback Society (NCBS), serving Biofeedback since the 1970s. In 2013, the NCBS reorganized as the SBCNA supporting and representing biofeedback and neurofeedback in the Southeast Region of the United States of America.\n\nThe Biofeedback Certification International Alliance (formerly the Biofeedback Certification Institute of America) is a non-profit organization that is a member of the Institute for Credentialing Excellence (ICE). BCIA offers biofeedback certification, neurofeedback (also called EEG biofeedback) certification, and pelvic muscle dysfunction biofeedback. BCIA certifies individuals meeting education and training standards in biofeedback and neurofeedback and progressively recertifies those satisfying continuing education requirements. BCIA certification has been endorsed by the Mayo Clinic, the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB), the International Society for Neurofeedback and Research (ISNR), and the Washington State Legislature.\n\nThe BCIA didactic education requirement includes a 48-hour course from a regionally-accredited academic institution or a BCIA-approved training program that covers the complete General Biofeedback Blueprint of Knowledge and study of human anatomy and physiology. The General Biofeedback Blueprint of Knowledge areas include: I. Orientation to Biofeedback, II. Stress, Coping, and Illness, III. Psychophysiological Recording, IV. Surface Electromyographic (SEMG) Applications, V. Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) Applications, VI. Electroencephalographic (EEG) Applications, VII. Adjunctive Interventions, and VIII. Professional Conduct.\n\nApplicants may demonstrate their knowledge of human anatomy and physiology by completing a course in human anatomy, human physiology, or human biology provided by a regionally-accredited academic institution or a BCIA-approved training program or by successfully completing an Anatomy and Physiology exam covering the organization of the human body and its systems.\n\nApplicants must also document practical skills training that includes 20 contact hours supervised by a BCIA-approved mentor designed to them teach how to apply clinical biofeedback skills through self-regulation training, 50 patient/client sessions, and case conference presentations. Distance learning allows applicants to complete didactic course work over the internet. Distance mentoring trains candidates from their residence or office. They must recertify every 4 years, complete 55 hours of continuing education during each review period or complete the written exam, and attest that their license/credential (or their supervisor's license/credential) has not been suspended, investigated, or revoked.\n\nPelvic Muscle Dysfunction Biofeedback (PMDB) encompasses \"elimination disorders and chronic pelvic pain syndromes.\" The BCIA didactic education requirement includes a 28-hour course from a regionally-accredited academic institution or a BCIA-approved training program that covers the complete Pelvic Muscle Dysfunction Biofeedback Blueprint of Knowledge and study of human anatomy and physiology. The Pelvic Muscle Dysfunction Biofeedback areas include: I. Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback, II. Pelvic Floor Anatomy, Assessment, and Clinical Procedures, III. Clinical Disorders: Bladder Dysfunction, IV. Clinical Disorders: Bowel Dysfunction, and V. Chronic Pelvic Pain Syndromes.\n\nCurrently, only licensed healthcare providers may apply for this certification. Applicants must also document practical skills training that includes a 4-hour practicum/personal training session and 12 contact hours spent with a BCIA-approved mentor designed to teach them how to apply clinical biofeedback skills through 30 patient/client sessions and case conference presentations. They must recertify every 3 years, complete 36 hours of continuing education or complete the written exam, and attest that their license/credential has not been suspended, investigated, or revoked.\n\nClaude Bernard proposed in 1865 that the body strives to maintain a steady state in the internal environment (milieu intérieur), introducing the concept of homeostasis. In 1885, J.R. Tarchanoff showed that voluntary control of heart rate could be fairly direct (cortical-autonomic) and did not depend on \"cheating\" by altering breathing rate. In 1901, J. H. Bair studied voluntary control of the retrahens aurem muscle that wiggles the ear, discovering that subjects learned this skill by inhibiting interfering muscles and demonstrating that skeletal muscles are self-regulated. Alexander Graham Bell attempted to teach the deaf to speak through the use of two devices—the phonautograph, created by Édouard-Léon Scott's, and a manometric flame. The former translated sound vibrations into tracings on smoked glass to show their acoustic waveforms, while the latter allowed sound to be displayed as patterns of light. After World War II, mathematician Norbert Wiener developed cybernetic theory, that proposed that systems are controlled by monitoring their results. The participants at the landmark 1969 conference at the Surfrider Inn in Santa Monica coined the term biofeedback from Wiener's feedback. The conference resulted in the founding of the Bio-Feedback Research Society, which permitted normally isolated researchers to contact and collaborate with each other, as well as popularizing the term \"biofeedback.\" The work of B.F. Skinner led researchers to apply operant conditioning to biofeedback, decide which responses could be voluntarily controlled and which could not. In the first experimental demonstration of biofeedback Shearn used these procedures with heart rate. The effects of the perception of autonomic nervous system activity was initially explored by George Mandler's group in 1958. In 1965, Maia Lisina combined classical and operant conditioning to train subjects to change blood vessel diameter, eliciting and displaying reflexive blood flow changes to teach subjects how to voluntarily control the temperature of their skin. In 1974, H.D. Kimmel trained subjects to sweat using the galvanic skin response.\n\nHinduism:\n\nBiofeedback systems have been known in India and some other countries for millennia. Ancient Hindu practices like yoga and Pranayama (breathing techniques) are essentially biofeedback methods. Many yogis and sadhus have been known to exercise control over their physiological processes. In addition to recent research on Yoga, Paul Brunton, the British writer who travelled extensively in India, has written about many cases he has witnessed.\n\n1958 – G. Mandler's group studied the process of autonomic feedback and its effects.\n\n1962 – D. Shearn used feedback instead of conditioned stimuli to change heart rate.\n\n1962 – Publication of \"Muscles Alive\" by John Basmajian and Carlo De Luca\n\n1968 – Annual Veteran's Administration research meeting in Denver that brought together several biofeedback researchers\n\n1969 – April: Conference on Altered States of Consciousness, Council Grove, KS; October: formation and first meeting of the Biofeedback Research Society (BRS), Surfrider Inn, Santa Monica, CA; co-founder Barbara B. Brown becomes the society's first president\n\n1972 – Review and analysis of early biofeedback studies by D. Shearn in the 'Handbook of Psychophysiology'.\n\n1974 – Publication of \"The Alpha Syllabus: A Handbook of Human EEG Alpha Activity\" and the first popular book on biofeedback, \"New Mind, New Body\" (December), both by Barbara B. Brown\n\n1975 – American Association of Biofeedback Clinicians founded; publication of \"The Biofeedback Syllabus: A Handbook for the Psychophysiologic Study of Biofeedback\" by Barbara B. Brown\n\n1976 – BRS renamed the Biofeedback Society of America (BSA)\n\n1977 – Publication of \"Beyond Biofeedback\" by Elmer and Alyce Green and \"Biofeedback: Methods and Procedures in Clinical Practice\" by George Fuller and \"Stress and The Art of Biofeedback\" by Barbara B. Brown\n\n1978 – Publication of \"Biofeedback: A Survey of the Literature\" by Francine Butler\n\n1979 – Publication of \"Biofeedback: Principles and Practice for Clinicians\" by John Basmajian and \"Mind/Body Integration: Essential Readings in Biofeedback\" by Erik Peper, Sonia Ancoli, and Michele Quinn\n\n1980 – First national certification examination in biofeedback offered by the Biofeedback Certification Institute of America (BCIA); publication of \"Biofeedback: Clinical Applications in Behavioral Medicine\" by David Olton and Aaron Noonberg and \"Supermind: The Ultimate Energy\" by Barbara B. Brown\n\n1984 – Publication of \"Principles and Practice of Stress Management\" by Woolfolk and Lehrer and \"Between Health and Illness: New Notions on Stress and the Nature of Well Being\" by Barbara B. Brown\n\n1984 - Publication of \"The Biofeedback Way To Starve Stress\", by Mark Golin in Prevention Magazine 1984</ref>\n\n1987 – Publication of \"Biofeedback: A Practitioner's Guide\" by Mark Schwartz\n\n1989 – BSA renamed the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback\n\n1991 – First national certification examination in stress management offered by BCIA\n\n1994 – Brain Wave and EMG sections established within AAPB\n\n1995 – Society for the Study of Neuronal Regulation (SSNR) founded\n\n1996 – Biofeedback Foundation of Europe (BFE) established\n\n1999 – SSNR renamed the Society for Neuronal Regulation (SNR)\n\n2002 – SNR renamed the International Society for Neuronal Regulation (iSNR)\n\n2003 – Publication of \"The Neurofeedback Book\" by Thompson and Thompson\n\n2004 – Publication of \"Evidence-Based Practice in Biofeedback and Neurofeedback\" by Carolyn Yucha and Christopher Gilbert\n\n2006 – ISNR renamed the International Society for Neurofeedback and Research (ISNR)\n\n2008 – Biofeedback Neurofeedback Alliance formed to pool the resources of the AAPB, BCIA, and ISNR on joint initiatives\n\n2008 – Biofeedback Alliance and Nomenclature Task Force define biofeedback\n\n2009 – The International Society for Neurofeedback & Research defines neurofeedback\n\n2010 – Biofeedback Certification Institute of America renamed the Biofeedback Certification International Alliance (BCIA)\n\nChristopher deCharms (of Omneuron in San Francisco) in conjunction with Stanford University School of Medicine has developed a real-time fMRI for the purpose of training the brain to activate its own endogenous opiates. deCharms believes this will revolutionize the treatment of chronic pain. The patient can control his own pain by visually looking at his rtfMRI, watching his own reactions in real time, and then blocking the pathways causing pain. deCharms mentions that clinical trials with rtfMRI is measuring a 44 to 64 percent decrease in chronic pain. With 8 participants in the study, deCharms et al.(2005) demonstrated that subjects can control the pain of heat stimulus, by visually observing in real time their brain activity. The subjects were instructed to use techniques such as changing the focus of their attention to the pain, and changing the emotional value of the pain. Then while viewing their own fMRI in real time the subjects could observe the effect of their thoughts on the part of the brain called the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC). When the subject 'controlled the pain' the virtual flame on the fMRI got dimmer. Results from this study indicate two things: 1. That subjects can learn to voluntarily control brain activity in a specific region of the brain, and 2. There is a significant increase in the ability of healthy subjects to control their pain with repeated training. This study was then repeated with 8 patients with chronic intractable pain. The results showed that these patients were successful in reducing their pain rating by 64% (using the McGill Pain Questionnaire). The authors state that this is not yet a 'treatment', but still under serious investigation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11136802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11136802", "title": "Bruce L. Benson", "text": "Bruce L. Benson\n\nBruce L. Benson (born March 18, 1949) is an American academic economist who is recognized as an authority on law and economics and a major exponent of anarcho-capitalist legal theory. He is chair of the Department of Economics, DeVoe L. Moore Professor, Distinguished Research Professor and courtesy Professor of Law at Florida State University and the recipient of the 2006 Adam Smith Award, the highest honor bestowed by the Association of Private Enterprise Education. He is a Senior Fellow at the Independent Institute and has recently been a Fulbright Senior Specialist in the Czech Republic, Visiting Professor at the University de Paris Pantheonon Assas, a Property-and-Environment-Research-Center Julian Simon Fellow, and Visiting Research Fellow at the American Institute for Economic Research.\n\nBenson received his Ph.D. from Texas A&M University in 1978.\n\nBenson is the author of four books, co-editor of another, author of over 125 peer-reviewed academic articles, author of over 65 chapters in edited books and has presented numerous scholarly papers. He has written some of the leading libertarian or anarchist law and economics perspectives on regulation, criminalization, commercial law, and (see also: private law, polycentric law). His books include:\n\n"}
{"id": "12641290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12641290", "title": "Buddhist logico-epistemology", "text": "Buddhist logico-epistemology\n\nBuddhist logico-epistemology is a term used in Western scholarship for \"pramāṇa-vāda\" (doctrine of proof) and \"Hetu-vidya\" (science of causes). Pramāṇa-vāda is an epistemological study of the nature of knowledge; Hetu-vidya is a system of logic. These models developed in India during the 5th through 7th centuries.\n\nThe early Buddhists texts show that the historical Buddha was familiar with certain rules of reasoning used for debating purposes and made use of these against his opponents. He also seems to have held certain ideas about epistemology and reasoning, though he did not put forth a logico-epistemological system. The structure of debating rules and processes can be seen in the early Theravada text the Kathāvatthu. \n\nThe first Buddhist thinker to discuss logical and epistemic issues systematically was Vasubandhu in his \"Vāda-vidhi\" (\"A Method for Argumentation\"), who was influenced by the Hindu work on reasoning, the \"Nyāya-sūtra\".\n\nA mature system of Buddhist logic and epistemology was founded by the Buddhist scholar Dignāga (c. 480–540 CE) in his \"magnum opus\", the \"Pramāṇa-samuccaya\". Dharmakirti further developed this system with several innovations. Dharmakirti's \"Pramanavarttika\" ('Commentary on Valid Cognition') became the main source of epistemology and reasoning in Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nScholars such as H.N. Randle and Fyodor Shcherbatskoy (1930s) initially employed terms such as “Indian Logic” and “Buddhist Logic” to refer to the Indian tradition of inference (anumana), epistemology (pramana) and 'science of causes' (\"hetu-vidya\"). This tradition developed in the orthodox Hindu tradition known as Nyaya as well as in Buddhist philosophy. Logic in classical India, writes Bimal Krishna Matilal, is \"the systematic study of informal inference-patterns, the rules of debate, the identification of sound inference vis-à-vis sophistical argument, and similar topics\". As Matilal notes, this tradition developed out systematic debate theory (\"vadavidya\"):\n\nLogic as the study of the form of correct arguments and inference patterns, developed in India from the methodology of philosophical debate. The art of conducting a philosophical debate was prevalent probably as early as the time of the Buddha and the Mahavira (Jina), but it became more systematic and methodical a few hundred years later.\n\n‘Indian Logic’ should be understood as being a different system of logic than modern classical logic (e.g. modern predicate calculus), but as \"anumāna\"-theory, a system in its own right. ‘Indian Logic’ was also influenced by the study of grammar, whereas Classical Logic which principally informed modern Western Logic was influenced by the study of mathematics. \n\nA key difference between Western Logic and Indian Logic is that certain epistemological issues are included within Indian Logic, whereas in modern Western Logic they are deliberately excluded. Indian Logic includes general questions regarding the ‘nature of the derivation of knowledge’, epistemology, from information supplied by evidence, evidence which in turn may be another item of knowledge. For this reason, other scholars use the term \"logico-epistemology\" to refer to this tradition, emphasizing the centrality of the epistemic project for Indian logical reasoning. According to Georges Dreyfus, while Western logic tends to be focused on formal validity and deduction:\n\nThe concern of Indian \"logicians\" is quite different. They intend to provide a critical and systematic analysis of the diverse means of correct cognition that we use practically in our quest for knowledge. In this task, they discuss the nature and types of pramana. Although Indian philosophers disagree on the types of cognition that can be considered valid, most recognize perception and inference as valid. Within this context, which is mostly epistemological and practically oriented, topics such as the nature and types of correct reasoning that pertain to logic in the large sense of the word are discussed. \n\nPramāṇa (Tib. \"tshad ma\") is often translated as \"valid cognition\" or \"instrument of knowledge\" and refers to epistemic ways of knowing. Decisive in distinguishing Buddhist pramana from what is generally understood as Orthodox Hindu philosophy is the issue of epistemological justification. All schools of Indian logic recognize various sets of 'valid justifications for knowledge' or \"pramana\". Buddhist logico-epistemology was influenced by the Nyāya school's methodology, but where the Nyaya recognised a set of four pramanas—perception, inference, comparison and testimony—the Buddhists (i.e. the school of Dignaga) only recognized two: perception and inference. For Dignaga, comparison and testimony are just special forms of inference. \n\nMost Indic \"pramanavada\" accept 'perception' (Sanskrit: pratyakṣa) and 'inference' (Sanskrit: anumāna), but for some schools of orthodox Hinduism the 'received textual tradition' (Sanskrit: āgamāḥ) is an epistemological category equal to perception and inference. The Buddhist logical tradition of Dignaga and Dharmakirti accept scriptural tradition \"only\" if it accords with pratyakṣa and anumāna. This view is thus in line with the Buddha's injunction in the \"Kalama Sutta\" not to accept anything on mere tradition or scripture.\n\nThe time of the Buddha Gautama was a lively intellectual culture with many differing philosophical theories. KN Jayatilleke, in his \"Early Buddhist Theory of Knowledge\", uses the Pali Nikayas to glean the possible epistemological views of the historical Buddha and those of his contemporaries. According to his analysis of the Sangarava Sutta, during the Buddha's time, Indian views were divided into three major camps with regards to knowledge:\n\n\nThe Buddha rejected the first view in several texts such as the Kalama sutta, arguing that a claim to scriptural authority (\"sabda\") was not a source of knowledge, as was claimed by the later Hindu Mimamsa school. The Buddha also seems to have criticized those who used reason (\"takka\"). According to Jayatilleke, in the Pali Nikayas, this term refers \"primarily to denote the reasoning that was employed to construct and defend metaphysical theories and perhaps meant the reasoning of sophists and dialecticians only in a secondary sense\". The Buddha rejected metaphysical speculations, and put aside certain questions which he named the unanswerables (\"avyakatas\"), including questions about the soul and if the universe is eternal or not.\n\nThe Buddha's epistemological view has been a subject of debate among modern scholars. Some such as David Kalupahana, have seen him first and foremost as an empiricist because of his teaching that knowledge required verification through the six sense fields (ayatanas). The Kalama sutta states that verification through one’s own personal experience (and the experiences of the wise) is an important means of knowledge.\n\nHowever, the Buddha's view of truth was also based on the soteriological and therapeutic concern of ending suffering. In the \"Discourse to Prince Abhaya\" (MN.I.392–4) the Buddha states that a belief should only be accepted if it leads to wholesome consequences. This has led scholars such as Mrs Rhys Davids and Vallée-Poussin to see the Buddha's view as a form of Pragmatism. This sense of truth as what is useful is also shown by the Buddha's parable of the arrow.\n\nK. N. Jayatilleke sees Buddha's epistemological view as empirically based which also includes a particular view of causation (dependent origination): \"inductive inferences in Buddhism are based on a theory of causation. These inferences are made on the data of perception. What is considered to constitute knowledge are direct inferences made on the basis of such perceptions.\" Jayatilleke argues the Buddhas statements in the Nikayas tacitly imply an adherence to some form of correspondence theory, this is most explicit in the 'Apannaka Sutta'. He also notes that Coherentism is also taken as a criterion for truth in the Nikayas, which contains many instances of the Buddha debating opponents by showing how they have contradicted themselves. He also notes that the Buddha seems to have held that utility and truth go hand in hand, and therefore something which is true is also useful (and vice versa, something false is not useful for ending suffering). Echoing this view, Christian Coseru writes:\n\ncanonical sources make quite clear that several distinct factors play a crucial role in the acquisition of knowledge. These are variously identified with the testimony of sense experience, introspective or intuitive experience, inferences drawn from these two types of experience, and some form of coherentism, which demands that truth claims remain consistent across the entire corpus of doctrine. Thus, to the extent that Buddhists employ reason, they do so primarily in order further to advance the empirical investigation of phenomena.\n\nThe Early Buddhist Texts show that during this period many different kinds of philosophers often engaged in public debates (\"vivada\"). The early texts also mention that there was a set procedure (\"patipada\") for these debates and that if someone does not abide by it they are unsuitable to be debated. There also seems to have been at least a basic conception of valid and invalid reasoning, including, according to Jayatilleke, fallacies (\"hetvabhasah\") such as \"petitio principii\". Various fallacies were further covered under what were called \"nigrahasthana\" or \"reasons for censure\" by which one could lose the debate. Other \"nigrahasthanas\" included \"arthantaram\" or \"shifting the topic\", and not giving a coherent reply. \n\nAccording to Jayatilleke, 'pure reasoning' or 'a priori' reasoning is rejected by the Buddha as a source of knowledge. While reason could be useful in deliberation, it could not establish truth on its own. \n\nIn contrast to his opponents, the Buddha termed himself a defender of 'analysis' or 'vibhajjavada'. He held that after proper rational analysis, assertions could be classified in the following way: \n\n\nThis view of analysis differed from that of the Jains, which held that all views were \"anekamsika\" and also were relative, that is, they were true or false depending on the standpoint one viewed it from (anekantavada).\n\nThe early texts also mention that the Buddha held there to be 'four kinds of explanations of questions\".\n\n\nThe Buddha also made use of various terms which reveal some of his views on meaning and language. For example, he held that many concepts or designations (\"paññatti\") could be used in conventional everyday speech while at the same time not referring to anything that exists ultimately (such as the pronouns like \"I\" and \"Me\"). Richard Hayes likewise points to the Potthapada sutta as an example of the Early Buddhist tendency towards a nominalist perspective on language and meaning in contrast to the Brahmanical view which tended to see language as reflecting real existents. \n\nThe Buddha also divided statements (bhasitam) into two types with regards to their meaning: those which were intelligible, meaningful (\"sappatihirakatam\") and those meaningless or incomprehensible (\"appatihirakatam\"). According to Jayatilleke, \"in the Nikayas it is considered meaningless to make a\nstatement unless the speaker could attach a verifiable content to each of its terms.\" This is why the Buddha held that statements about the existence of a self or soul (atman) were ultimately meaningless, because they could not be verified.\n\nThe Buddha, like his contemporaries, also made use of the \"four corners\" (catuṣkoṭi) logical structure as a tool in argumentation. According to Jayatilleke, these \"four forms of predication\" can be rendered thus: \n\nThe Buddha in the Nikayas seems to regard these as \"'the four possible positions' or logical alternatives that a proposition can take\". Jayatilleke notes that the last two are clearly non-Aristotelian in nature. The Buddhists in the Nikayas use this logical structure to analyze the truth of statements and classify them. When all four were denied regarding a statement or question, it was held to be meaningless and thus set aside or rejected (but \"not negated\").\n\nThe early texts mention of two modes of discourse used by the Buddha. Jayatilleke writes:\n\nwhen he is speaking about things or persons we should not presume that he is speaking about entities or substances; to this extent his meaning is to be inferred (neyyattha-). But when he is pointing out the misleading implications of speech or using language without these implications, his meaning is plain and direct and nothing is to be inferred (nitattha-). This is a valid distinction which certainly holds good for the Nikäyas at least, in the light of the above-statement.\n\nThe later commentarial and Abhidharma literature began to use this distinction as an epistemic one. They spoke of two levels of truth, the conventional (samutti), and the absolute (paramattha). This theory of double truth became very influential in later Buddhist epistemic discourse.\n\nThe Theravada Kathāvatthu (points of controversy) is a Pali Buddhist text which discusses the proper method for critical discussions on doctrine. Its date is debated by scholars but it might date to the time of Ashoka (C. 240 BC). Western cholarship by St. Schayer and following him A. K. Warder, have argued that there is an \"anticipations of propositional logic\" in the text. However, according to Jonardon Ganeri \"the leading concern of the text is with issues of \"balance\" and \"fairness\" in the conduct of a dialogue and it recommends a strategy of argumentation which guarantees that both parties to a point of controversy have their arguments properly weighed and considered.\"\n\nIn the Kathāvatthu, a proper reasoned dialogue (\"vadayutti\") is structured as follows: there is a point of contention - whether A is B; this is divided into several 'openings' (\"atthamukha\"):\n\n\nThese help clarify the attitude of someone towards their thesis in the proceeding argumentative process. Jonardon Ganeri outlines the process thus:\n\nEach such ‘opening’ now proceeds as an independent dialogue, and each is divided into five stages: the way forward (anuloma), the way back (patikamma), the refutation (niggaha), the application (upanayana) and the conclusion (niggamana). In the way forward, the proponent solicits from the respondent the endorsement of a thesis, and then tries to argue against it. In the way back, the respondent turns the tables, soliciting from the proponent the endorsement of the counter-thesis, and then trying argue against it. In the refutation, the respondent, continuing, seeks to refute the argument that the proponent had advanced against the thesis. The application and conclusion repeat and reaffirm that the proponent’s argument against the respondent’s thesis is unsound, while the respondent’s argument against the proponent’s counter-thesis is sound.\n\nAnother Buddhist text which depicts the standards for rational debate among Buddhists is the Milindapanha (\"Questions of Menander\", 1st century BCE) which is a dialogue between the Buddhist monk Nagasena and an Indo-Greek King. In describing the art of debate and dialogue, Nagasena states:\n\nWhen scholars talk a matter over one with another, then is there a winding up, an unravelling, one or other is convicted of error, and he then acknowledges his mistake; distinctions are drawn, and contra-distinctions; and yet thereby they are not angered.\n\nThe various elements outlined here make up the standard procedure of Buddhist debate theory. There is an 'unravelling' or explication (\"nibbethanam\") of one's thesis and stances and then there is also a 'winding up' ending in the censure (\"niggaho\") of one side based on premises he has accepted and the rejoinders of his opponent.\n\nThe Buddhist Abhidharma schools developed a classification of four types of reasoning which became widely used in Buddhist thought. The Mahayana philosopher Asanga in his Abhidharma-samuccaya, outlines these four reasons (\"yukti\") that one may use to inquire about the nature of things. According to Cristian Coseru these are:\n\n\nAccording to Coseru \"what we have here are examples of natural reasoning or of reasoning from experience, rather than attempts to use deliberative modes of reasoning for the purpose of justifying a given thesis or arguing for its conditions of satisfaction.\"\n\nThe Nyāya Sūtras of Gotama (c. 1st or 2nd century CE) is the founding text of the Nyaya school. The text systematically lays out logical rules for argumentation in the form of a five step schema and also sets forth a theory of epistemology. According to Jonardon Ganeri, the Nyaya sutra brought about a transformation in Indian thinking about logic. First, it began a shift away from interest in argumentation and debate towards the formal properties of sound inference. Secondly the Nyaya sutra led a shift to rule governed forms of logical thinking. \n\nBK Matilal outlines the five steps or limbs of the Nyaya method of reasoning as follows:\n\n\nLater Buddhist thinkers like Vasubandhu would see several of these steps as redundant and would affirm that only the first two or three were necessary.\n\nThe Naiyayikas (the Nyaya scholars) also accepted four valid means (\"pramaṇa\") of obtaining valid knowledge (\"pramana\") - perception (\"pratyakṣa\"), inference (\"anumāna\"), comparison (\"upamāna\") and word/testimony of reliable sources (\"śabda\"). \n\nThe systematic discussions of the Nyaya school influenced the Medieval Buddhist philosophers who developed their own theories of inferential reasoning and epistemic warrant (pramana). The Nyaya became one of the main opponents of the Buddhists.\n\nNagarjuna (c. 150 – c. 250 CE), one of the most influential Buddhist thinkers, defended the theory of the emptiness (shunyata) of phenomena and attacked theories which posited an essence or true existence (svabhava) to phenomena in his magnum opus The Fundamental Verses on the Middle Way. He used the Buddhist catuṣkoṭi (\"four corners\" or \"four positions\") to construct reductio ad absurdum arguments against numerous theories which posited essences to certain phenomena, such as causality and movement. In Nagarjuna's works and those of his followers, the four positions on a particular thesis are negated or ruled out (Sk. \"pratiṣedha\") as exemplified by the first verse of Nagarjuna's Middle way verses which focuses on a critique of causation:\n\n\"Entities of any kind are not ever found anywhere produced from themselves, from another, from both [themselves and another], and also from no cause.\"\n\nNagarjuna also famously relied upon refutation based argumentation (\"vitanda\") drawing out the consequences (\"prasanga\") and presuppositions of his opponents' own theories and showing them to be self refuting. Because the \"vaitandika\" only seeks to disprove his opponents arguments without putting forward a thesis of his own, the Hindu Nyaya school philosophers such as Vatsyayana saw it as unfair and also irrational (because if you argue against P, you must have a thesis, mainly not P). According to Matilal, Nagarjuna's position of not putting forth any implied thesis through his refutations would be rational if seen as a form of illocutionary act.\n\nNagarjuna's reductios and the structure of the catuṣkoṭi became very influential in the Buddhist Madhyamaka school of philosophy which sees itself as a continuation of Nagarjuna's thought. Nagarjuna also discusses the four modes of knowing of the Nyaya school, but he is unwilling to accept that such epistemic means bring us ultimate knowledge. \n\nNagarjuna's epistemic stance continues to be debated among modern scholars, his skepticism of the ability of reason and language to capture the nature of reality and his view of reality as being empty of true existence have led some to see him as a skeptic, mystic, nihilist or agnostic, while others interpret him as a Wittgensteinian analyst, an anti-realist, or deconstructionist.\n\nNagarjuna is also said to be the author of the \"Upāyaśṛdaya\" one of the first Buddhist texts on proper reasoning and argumentation. He also developed the Buddhist theory of two truths, defending ultimate truth as the truth of emptiness.\n\nVasubandhu was one of the first Buddhist thinkers to write various works on sound reasoning and debate, including the \"Vādavidhi\" (Methods of Debate), and the \"Vādavidhāna\" (Rules of Debate). Vasubandhu was influenced by the system of the Nyaya school. Vasubandhu also introduced the concept of 'logical pervasion' (vyapti). He also introduced the Trairūpya (triple inferential sign). The Trairūpya is a logical argument that contains three constituents which a logical ‘sign’ or ‘mark’ (linga) must fulfill to be 'valid source of knowledge' (pramana):\n\n\nDignaga (c. 480 – 540 CE) is the founder of an influential tradition of Buddhist logic and epistemology, which was widely influential in Indian thought and brought about a turn to epistemological questions in Indian philosophy. According to B.K. Matilal, \"Dinnaga was perhaps the most creative logician in medieval (400-1100) India.\"\n\nDignaga defended the validity of only two pramanas, perception and inference in his magnum opus, the \"pramanasamuccaya\". As noted by Cristian Coseru, Dignaga's theory of knowledge is strongly grounded on perception \"as an epistemic modality for establishing a cognitive event as knowledge\". His theory also does not \"make a radical distinction between epistemology and the psychological processes of cognition.\" For Dignaga, perception is never in error, for it is the most basic raw sense data. It is only through mental construction and inferential thinking that we err in the interpretation of perceptual particulars. \n\nDignaga also wrote on language and meaning. His \"apoha\" (exclusion) theory of meaning was widely influential. For Dignaga, a word can express its own meaning only by repudiating other meanings. The word 'cow' gives its own meaning only by the exclusion of all those things which are other than cow. \n\nFollowing Dignaga, Dharmakirti (c. 7th century), contributed significantly to the development and application of Buddhist pramana theory. Dharmakīrti's \"Pramāṇavārttika\", remains in Tibet as a central text on pramana and was widely commented on by various Indian and Tibetan scholars. Dharmakirti's theory of epistemology differed from Dignaga's by introducing the idea that for something to be a valid cognition it must \"confirm causal efficacy\" (\"arthakriyāsthiti\") which \"consists in [this cognition’s] compliance with [the object’s capacity to] perform a function\" (\"Pramāṇavārttika\" 2.1ac).\n\nHe was also one of the primary theorists of Buddhist atomism, according to which the only items considered to exist or be ultimately real are momentary particulars (\"svalakṣaṇa\") including material atoms and momentary states of consciousness (dharmas). Everything else is considered to be only conventional (\"saṃvṛtisat\") and thus he has been seen as a nominalist, like Dignaga.\n\nThese two thinkers were very influential on later Buddhist philosophy. The \"School of Dignāga\" or the \"Dignāga-Dharmakīrti school\" is sometimes used to refer to this tradition. In Tibetan it is termed “those who follow reasoning” (Tibetan: \"rigs pa rjes su ‘brang ba\"), which is back-translated into sanskrit by scholars as 'pramāṇavāda'. \n\nVincent Eltschinger has argued that Buddhist epistemology, especially Dharmakirti's, was an apologetic response to attacks by hostile Hindu opponents and thus was seen by Buddhists as \"that which, by defeating the outsiders, removes the obstacles to the path towards liberation.\" Coseru meanwhile simply notes the inseparability of epistemic concerns from spiritual praxis for Buddhist epistemologists such as Dharmakirti: \n\nIt is this praxis that leads a representative thinker such as Dharmakīrti to claim that the Buddha, whose view he and his successors claim to propound, is a true embodiment of the sources of knowledge. Thus, far from seeing a tension between empirical scrutiny and the exercise of reason, the Buddhist epistemological enterprise positions itself not merely as a dialogical disputational method for avoiding unwarranted beliefs, but as a practice aimed at achieving concrete, pragmatic ends. As Dharmakīrti reminds his fellow Buddhists, the successful accomplishment of any human goal is wholly dependent on having correct knowledge.\n\nLater philosophers who worked on Buddhist epistemology and logic include Devendrabuddhi (630-690 C.E.), Dharmottara (750-8 10 C.E.), Prajñākaragupta (740-800 C.E.), Jñanasrimitra (975–1025) and Ratnakīrti (11th century).\n\nBhāvaviveka (c. 500 - c. 578) appears to be the first Buddhist logician to employ the 'formal syllogism' (Wylie: sbyor ba'i tshig; Sanskrit: prayoga-vākya) in expounding the Mādhyamaka view, which he employed to considerable effect in his commentary to Nagarjuna's \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\" entitled the \"Prajñāpradīpa\". \n\nBhāvaviveka was later criticized by Chandrakirti (540-600) for his use of logical arguments. For Chandrakirti, a true Mādhyamika only uses reductio ad absurdum arguments and does not put forth positive arguments. Chandrakirti saw in the logico-epistemic tradition a commitment to a foundationalist epistemology and essentialist ontology, while for him a Mādhyamika's job should be to just deconstruct concepts which presuppose an essence. \n\nIn spite of these criticisms, Buddhist philosophers such as Jñanagarbha (700-760) and Śāntarakṣita (725–788) continued to explain Madhyamaka philosophy through the use of formal syllogisms as well as adopting the conceptual schemas of the Dignaga-Dharmakirti school. This tendency is termed \"Svātantrika\", while Chandrakirti's stance is termed \"Prasangika\". The Svatantrika-Prasaṅgika distinction is a central topic of debate in Tibetan Buddhist philosophy.\n\nTom Tillemans, in discussing the Tibetan translation and assimilation of the logico-epistemological tradition, identifies two currents and transmission streams:\n\nThe first is the tradition of the Kadampa scholar Ngok Lodzawa Loden Shayrap (1059–1109) and Chapa Chögyi Sengge (1109–69) and their disciples, mainly located at Sangpu Neutok . Chapa’s \"Tshad ma’i bsdus pa\" (English: 'Summaries of Epistemology and Logic') became the groundwork for the ‘Collected Topics’ (Tibetan: Düra; Wylie: bsdus grwa) literature, which in large part furnished the Gelugpa-based logical architecture and epistemology. These two scholars (whose works are now lost) strengthened the influence of Dharmakirti in Tibetan Buddhist scholarship.\n\nThere is also another tradition of interpretation founded by Sakya Pandita (1182–1251), who wrote the \"Tshad-ma rigs-gter\" (English: \"Treasury of Logic on Valid Cognition\"). Sakya pandita secured the place of Dharmakirti's \"pramanavarttika\" as the foundational text on epistemology in Tibet. Later thinkers of the Gelug school such as Gyeltsap and Kaydrup attempted a synthesis of the two traditions, with varying results. This is because the views of Chapa were mostly that of Philosophical realism, while Sakya pandita was an anti-realist.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55494", "title": "Bábism", "text": "Bábism\n\nBábism (, \"Babiyye\"), also known as the Bayání Faith (Persian: , \"Bayání\"), is an Abrahamic monotheistic religion which professes that there is one incorporeal, unknown, and incomprehensible God who manifests his will in an unending series of theophanies, called Manifestations of God (Arabic: ). It has no more than a few thousand adherents according to current estimates, most of whom are concentrated in Iran. It was founded by ‘Ali Muhammad Shirazi who first assumed the title of Báb ( \"Gate\") from which the religion gets its name, out of the belief that he was the gate to the Twelfth Imam. However throughout his ministry his titles and claims underwent much evolution as the Báb progressively outlined his teachings.\n\nFounded in 1844, Bábism flourished in Persia until 1852, then lingered on in exile in the Ottoman Empire, especially Cyprus, as well as underground. An anomaly amongst Islamic messianic movements, the Bábí movement signaled a break with Islam, beginning a new religious system with its own unique laws, teachings, and practices. While Bábism was violently opposed by both clerical and government establishments, it led to the founding of the Bahá'í Faith, whose followers consider the religion founded by the Báb as a predecessor to their own.\n\nBábism, a term originating from Orientalists rather than the followers of the religion, comes from the Perso-Arabic noun \"bab\" (Arabic: ), meaning gate. Additionally, Bayání comes from the triliteral root B-Y-N which forms a class of words relating to concepts of clarity, differentiation, and separation, including \"Bayán\" which can refer to explanation, commentary, or exposition as well as the branch of Arabic rhetoric dealing with metaphors and interpretation.\n\nThe Báb's teachings can be grouped into three broad stages which each have a dominant thematic focus. His earliest teachings are primarily defined by his interpretation of the Quran and other Islamic traditions. While this interpretive mode continues throughout all three stages of his teachings, a shift takes place where his emphasis moves to the philosophical elucidation and finally to legislative pronouncements. In the second philosophical stage, the Báb gives an explanation of the metaphysics of being and creation, and in the third legislative stage his mystical and historical principles are explicitly united.\nAn analysis of the Báb's writings throughout the three stages shows that all of his teachings were animated by a common principle that had multiple dimensions and forms.\n\nIn Twelver Shi'a Islamic belief there were twelve Imams, the last of which, known as Imam Mahdi, who communicated with his followers only through certain representatives. According to the Twelver's belief, after the last of these representatives died, the Imam Mahdi went into a state of Occultation; while still alive, he was no longer accessible to his believers. Shi'a Muslims believe that when the world becomes oppressed, the Imam Mahdi (also termed the Qa'im) will come out of occultation and restore true religion on Earth before the cataclysmic end of the world and judgement day.\n\nIn Bábí belief the Báb is the return of the Imam Mahdi, but the doctrine of the Occultation is implicitly denied; instead the Báb stated that his manifestation was a symbolic return of the Imam, and not the physical reappearance of the Imam Mahdi who had died a thousand years earlier. In Bábí belief the statements made from previous revelations regarding the Imam Mahdi were set forth in symbols. The Báb also stated that he was not only the fulfillment of the Shi`i expectations for the Qá'im, but that he also was the beginning of a new prophetic dispensation.\n\nThe Báb taught that his revelation was beginning an apocalyptic process that was bringing the Islamic dispensation to its cyclical end, and starting a new dispensation. He taught that the terms \"resurrection\", \"Judgement Day\", \"paradise\" and \"hell\" used in Shi'a prophecies for the end-times are symbolic. He stated that \"Resurrection\" means that the appearance of a new revelation, and that \"raising of the dead\" means the spiritual awakening of those who have stepped away from true religion. He further stated that \"Judgement Day\" refers to when a new Manifestation of God comes, and the acceptance or rejection of those on the Earth. Thus the Báb taught that with his revelation the end times ended and the age of resurrection had started and that the end-times were symbolic as the end of the past prophetic cycle.\n\nIn the Persian Bayán, the Báb wrote that religious dispensations come in cycles, as the seasons, to renew \"pure religion\" for humanity. This notion of continuity anticipated future prophetic revelations after the Báb.\n\nWhile the Báb claimed a station of revelation, he also claimed no finality for his revelation. One of the core Bábí teachings is the great Promised One, whom the Báb termed He whom God shall make manifest, promised in the sacred writings of previous religions would soon establish the Kingdom of God on the Earth. In the books written by the Báb he constantly entreats his believers to follow He whom God shall make manifest when he arrives and not behave like the Muslims who have not accepted his own revelation.\n\nThe Báb abrogated Islamic law and in the \"Persian Bayán\" promulgated a system of Bábí law, thus establishing a separate religion distinct from Islam. Some of the new laws included changing the direction of the Qibla to the Báb's house in Shiraz, Iran and changing the calendar to a solar calendar of nineteen months and nineteen days (which became the basis of the Bahá'í calendar) and prescribing the last month as a month of fasting.\n\nThe Báb also created a large number of rituals and rites which remained largely unpracticed. Some of these rituals include the carrying of arms only in times of necessity, the obligatory sitting on chairs, the advocating of the cleanliness displayed by Christians, the non-cruel treatment of animals, the prohibition of beating children severely, the recommendation of the printing of books, even scripture and the prohibition on the study of logic or dead languages. While some statements in the Bayan show tolerance, there are other very harsh regulations in regards to relations with non-believers. For example, non-believers are forbidden to live in five central Iranian provinces, the holy places of previous religions are to be demolished, all non-Bábí books should be destroyed, believers are not to marry or sit in the company of non-believers, and the property of non-believers can be taken from them. Some further ritual include elaborate regulations regarding pilgrimage, fasting, the manufacture of rings, the use of perfume, and the washing and disposal of the dead.\n\nTwelver Shi'i Muslims regard the Twelfth Imam, Muhammad al-Mahdi, as the last of the Imams. They contend that Muhammad al-Mahdi went into the Occultation in 874 CE, at which time communication between the Imam and the Muslim community could only be performed through mediators called \"Bāb\"s \"gates\" or \"Nā'ib\"s \"representatives\". In 940, the fourth \"nā'ib\" claimed that Imam Muhammad al-Mahdi had gone into an indefinite \"Grand Occultation\", and that he would cease to communicate with the people. According to Twelver belief, the Hidden Imam is alive in the world, but in concealment from his enemies, and that he would only emerge shortly before the Last Judgment. At that time, acting as al-Qā'im (\"He who will arise\"), a messianic figure also known as the Mahdi (\"He who is rightly guided\"), the Hidden Imam would start a holy war against evil, would defeat the unbelievers, and would start a reign of justice.\n\nIn 1830s Qajar Persia, Sayyid Kazim Rashti was the leader of the Shaykhis, a sect of Twelvers. The Shaykhis were a group expecting the imminent appearance of al-Qāʾim. At the time of Kazim's death in 1843, he had counselled his followers to leave their homes to seek the Lord of the Age whose advent would soon break on the world.\n\nOn 22 May, 1844 Mullá Husayn of Boshruyeh in Khorasan, a prominent disciple of Sayyid Kāẓim, entered Shiraz following the instruction by his master to search for al-Qā'im. Soon after he arrived in Shiraz, Mullá Husayn came into contact with the Báb. On the night of May 22, 1844, Mulla Husayn was invited by the Báb to his home; on that night Mullá Husayn told him that he was searching for the possible successor to Sayyid Kāẓim, al-Qā'im, and the Báb told Mullá Husayn privately that he was Sayyid Kāẓim's successor and the bearer of divine knowledge. Through the night of the 22nd to dawn of the 23rd, Mulla Husayn became the first to accept the Báb's claims as the gateway to Truth and the initiator of a new prophetic cycle; the Báb had replied in a satisfactory way to all of Mullá Husayn's questions and had written in his presence, with extreme rapidity, a long commentary on the surah of Yusuf, which has come to be known as the Qayyūmu l-Asmā' and is often considered the Báb's first revealed work, though he had before then composed a commentary on Surat al-Fatihah and Surat al-Baqara. This night and the following day are observed in the Bahá'í Faith as a holy day since then.\n\nAfter Mulla Husayn accepted the Báb's claim, the Báb ordered him to wait until 17 others had independently recognized the station of the Báb before they could begin teaching others about the new revelation.\n\nWithin five months, seventeen other disciples of Sayyid Kāẓim had independently recognized the Báb as a Manifestation of God. Among them was one woman, Zarrin Tāj Baraghāni, a poet, who later received the name of Táhirih (the Pure). These 18 disciples were later to be known as the Letters of the Living and were given the task of spreading the new faith across Iran and Iraq. The Báb emphasized the spiritual station of these 18 individuals, who along with himself, made the first \"Unity\" of his religion.\n\nAfter his declaration, he soon assumed the title of the Báb. Within a few years the movement spread all over Iran, causing controversy. His claim was at first understood by some of the public at the time to be merely a reference to the Gate of the Hidden Imám of Muhammad, but this understanding he publicly disclaimed. He later proclaimed himself, in the presence of the heir to the Throne of Persia and other notables, to be al-Qā'im. In the Báb's writings, the Báb appears to identify himself as the gate (báb) to Muhammad al-Mahdi and later he begins to explicitly proclaim his station as equivalent to that of the Hidden Imam and a new messenger from God. Saiedi states the exalted identity the Báb was claiming was unmistakable, but due to the reception of the people, his writings appear to convey the impression that he is only the gate to the Hidden Twelfth Imam. To his circle of early believers, the Báb was equivocal about his exact status, gradually confiding in them that he was not merely a gate to the Hidden Imam, but the Manifestation of the Hidden Imam and al-Qā'im himself. During his early meetings with Mullá Husayn, the Báb described himself as the Master and the Promised One; he did not consider himself just Sayyid Kāẓim Rashti's successor, but claimed a prophetic status, with a sense of deputyship delegated to him not just from the Hidden Imam, but from Divine authority; His early texts, such as the Commentary on the Sura of Yusuf, used Qur'anic language that implied divine authority and identified himself effectively with the Imam. When Mullā ʿAlī Basṭāmī, the second Letter of the Living, was put on trial in Baghdad for preaching about the Báb, the clerics studied the Commentary on the Sura of Yusuf, recognized in it a claim to divine revelation, and quoted from it extensively to prove that the author had made a messianic claim.\n\nThe Báb's message was disseminated by the Letters of the Living through Iran and southern Iraq. One of these initial activities were communicated to the West starting January 8, 1845 as an exchange of diplomatic reports concerning the fate of Mullá ʿAli-e Bastāmi, the second Letter. These were exchanges between Sir Henry Rawlinson, 1st Baronet who wrote first to Stratford Canning, 1st Viscount Stratford de Redcliffe. Followups continued until in 1846 he was sentenced by the Ottomans to serve in the naval shipyards at hard labor—the Ottoman ruler refusing to banish him as it would be \"difficult to control his activities and prevent him spreading his false ideas.\" Quddús and other early followers then were sent on to Shiraz to begin public presentations of the new religion. Indeed various activities the Báb initiated were devolved to various Letters of the Living like preaching activities and answering questions from the community. In particular as these first public activities multiplied opposition by the Islamic clergy arose and prompted the Governor of Shiraz to order the Báb's arrest. The Báb, upon hearing of the arrest order, left Bushehr for Shiraz in June 1845 and presented himself to the authorities. This series of events become the first public account of the new religion in the West when they were published Nov 1, 1845 in \"The Times\". The story was also carried from Nov 15 by the Literary Gazette which was subsequently echoed widely. The Báb was placed under house arrest at the home of his uncle, and was restricted in his personal activities, until a cholera epidemic broke out in the city in September 1846.\n\nThe Báb was released and departed for Isfahan. There, many came to see him at the house of the imám jum'ih, head of the local clergy, who became sympathetic. After an informal gathering where the Báb debated the local clergy and displayed his speed in producing instantaneous verses, his popularity soared. After the death of the Governor of Isfahan, Manouchehr Khan Gorji, an Iranian Georgian, who had become his supporter, pressure from the clergy of the province led to the Shah, Mohammad Shah Qajar, ordering the Báb to Tehran in January, 1847. After spending several months in a camp outside Tehran, and before the Báb could meet the Shah, the Prime Minister sent the Báb to Tabriz in the northwestern corner of the country, and later Maku and Chehriq, where he was confined. During his confinement, he was said to have impressed his jailers with his patience and dignity. Communication between the Báb and his followers was not completely severed but was quite difficult, and more responsibilities were devolved to the \"Letters\" as he was not able to elucidate his teachings to the public. With Bábí teachings now mostly spread by his followers, they faced increasing persecution themselves.\n\nThe role played by Táhirih in Karbalāʾ was particularly significant. She began an effort of innovation in religion based on her station as a Letter of the Living and the incarnation of Fatimah. In his early teachings, the Báb emphasized observing Sharia and extraordinary acts of piety. However, his claim of being the Bāb, i.e. the authority direct from God, was in conflict with this more conservative position of supporting Sharia. Táhirih innovated an advance in the understanding of the priority of the Báb's station above that of Islamic Sharia by wedding the concept of the Bāb’s overriding religious authority with ideas originating in Shaykhism pointing to an age after outward conformity. She seems to have made this connection circa 1262/1846 even before the Bāb himself. The matter was taken up by the community at large at the Conference of Badasht.\n\nThis conference was one of the most important events of the Bábí movement when in 1848 its split from Islam and Islamic law was made clear. Three key individuals who attended the conference were Bahá'u'lláh, Quddús, and Táhirih. Táhirih, during the conference, was able to persuade many of the others about the Bábí split with Islam based on the station of the Báb and an age after outward conformity. She appeared at least once during the conference in public without a veil, heresy within the Islamic world of that day, signalling the split. During this same month the Báb was brought to trial in Tabriz and made his claim to be the Mahdi public to the Crown Prince and the Shi'a clergy.\n\nSeveral sources agree that by 1848 or 1850 there were 100,000 converts to Babism. In the fall of 1850 newspaper coverage fell behind quickly unfolding events. Though the Báb was named for the first time he had in fact already been executed.\n\nBy 1848 the increased fervour of the Bábís and the clerical opposition had led to a number of confrontations between the Bábís and their government and clerical establishment. After the death of Mohammad Shah Qajar, the shah of Iran, a series of armed struggles and uprisings broke out in the country, including at Tabarsi. These confrontations all resulted in Bábí massacres; Bahá'í authors give an estimate of 20,000 Bábís killed from 1844 to present, with most of the deaths occurring during the first 20 years. Former Professor of Islamic Studies Denis MacEoin studied documented deaths, both for individuals and for round figures, from Bábí, Bahá'í, European, and Iranian sources, and confirmed at most two to three thousand. He stated that he could not find evidence for any higher figures. Supporters of the Bábís paint their struggle as basically defensive in nature; Shi'i writers on the other hand point to this period as proof of the subversive nature of Bábísm. MacEoin has pointed out that the Bábís did arm themselves, upon the Báb's instructions, and originally intended an uprising, but that their eventual clashes with state forces were defensive, and not considered an offensive jihad. In mid-1850 a new prime-minister, Amir Kabir, was convinced that the Bábí movement was a threat and ordered the execution of the Báb which was followed by the killings of many Bábís.\n\nOf the conflicts between the Bábís and the establishment, the first and best known took place in Māzandarān at the remote shrine of Shaykh Tabarsi, about 22 kilometres southeast of Bārfarush (modern Babol). From October 1848 until May 1849, around 300 Bábís (later rising to 600), led by Quddús and Mullá Husayn, defended themselves against the attacks of local villagers and members of the Shah's army under the command of Prince Mahdi Qoli Mirza. They were, after being weakened through attrition and starvation, subdued through false promises of safety, and put to death or sold into slavery.\n\nThe revolt at the fortress of ʿAli Mardan Khan in Zanjan in northwest Iran was by far the most violent of all the conflicts. It was headed by Mullā Muhammad ‘Ali Zanjani, called Hujjat, and also lasted seven or eight months (May 1850 – January 1851). The Bábí community in the city had swelled to around 3000 after the conversion of one of the town's religious leaders to the Bábí movement. The conflict was preceded by years of growing tension between the leading Islamic clergy and the new rising Bábí leadership. The city governor ordered that the city be divided into two sectors, with hostilities starting soon thereafter. The Bábís faced resistance against a large number of regular troops, and led to the death of several thousand Bábís. After Hujjat was killed, and the Bábí numbers being greatly reduced, the Bábís surrendered in January 1851 and were massacred by the army.\n\nMeanwhile, a serious but less protracted struggle was waged against the government at Neyriz in Fars by Yahya Vahid Darabi of Nayriz. Vahid had converted around 1500 people in the community and had thus caused tensions with the authorities which led to an armed struggle in a nearby fort. The Bábís resisted attacks by the town's governor as well as further reinforcements. After being given a truce offer on 17 June 1850, Vahid told his followers to give up their positions, which led to Vahid and the Bábís being killed; the Bábí section of the town was also plundered, and the property of the remaining Bábís seized. Later, in March 1853 the governor of the city was killed by the Bábís. These further events led to a second armed conflict near the city where the Bábís once again resisted troop attacks until November 1853, when a massacre of Bábís happened, with their women being enslaved.\n\nThe revolts in Zanjan and Nayriz were in progress when in 1850 the Báb, with one of his disciples, was brought from his prison at Chehriq to Tabriz and publicly shot in front of the citadel. The body, after being exposed for some days, was recovered by the Bábís and conveyed to a shrine near Tehran, whence it was ultimately removed to Haifa, where it is now enshrined.\n\nMost western scholars who reviewed the Faith of the Báb after 1860 saw it as a way of letting in Western and Christian ideals into \"a closed and rigid Moslem system\" and giving the Báb himself sometimes less or more credit for being authentic in the process. However some went further. In 1866 British diplomat Robert Grant Watson (b. 8 February 1834, d. 28 October 1892) published a history of the first 58 years of the 19th century of Persia and would serve in several diplomatic capacities Watson summarizes the impact of the Báb in Persia:\n\nLatter commentators also noted these kinds of views: Ernest Renan, Stephen Greenleaf Bulfinch, son of Charles Bulfinch, and others.\n\nFor the next two years comparatively little was heard of the Bábís. The Bábís became polarized with one group speaking of violent retribution against Naser al-Din Shah Qajar, while the other, under the leadership of Baha’u’llah, looked to rebuild relationships with the government and advance the Babí cause by persuasion and the example of virtuous living.\n\nThe militant group of Babis was between thirty and seventy persons, only a small number of the total Babi population of perhaps 100,000. Their meetings appear to have come under the control of a \"Husayn Jan\", an emotive and magnetic figure who obtained a high degree of personal devotion to himself from the group. Meanwhile Tahirih and Baha'u'llah, visible leaders of the community previously, were removed from the scene – Tahirih by arrest and in the case of Baha'u'llah an invitation to go on pilgrimage to Karbila. On August 15, 1852, three from this small splinter group, acting on their own initiative, attempted to assassinate Naser al-Din Shah Qajar as he was returning from the chase to his palace at Niavarān. Notwithstanding the assassins' claim that they were working alone, the entire Bábí community was blamed, and a slaughter of several thousand Bábís followed, starting on the 31 August 1852 with some thirty Bábís, including Táhirih. Dr Jakob Eduard Polak, then the Shah's physician, was an eye-witness to her execution. Bahá'u'lláh surrendered himself and he along with a few others were imprisoned in the Siāhchāl \"Black Pit\", an underground dungeon in Tehran. Meanwhile echoes of the newspaper coverage of the violence continued into 1853.\n\nIn most of his prominent writings, the Báb alluded to a Promised One, most commonly referred to as \"He whom God shall make manifest\", and that he himself was \"but a ring upon the hand of Him Whom God shall make manifest.\" Within 20 years of the Báb's death, over 25 people claimed to be the Promised One, most significantly Bahá'u'lláh.\n\nShortly before the Báb's execution, a follower of the Báb, Abd al-Karim, brought to the Báb's attention the necessity to appoint a successor; thus the Báb wrote a certain number of tablets which he gave to Abd al-Karim to deliver to Subh-i Azal and Bahá'u'lláh. These tablets were later interpreted by both Azalis and Bahá'ís as proof of the Báb's delegation of leadership. Some sources state that the Báb did this at the suggestion of Bahá'u'lláh. In one of the tablets, which is commonly referred to as the Will and Testament of the Báb, Subh-i Azal is viewed to have been appointed as leader of the Bábis after the death of the movement's founder; the tablet, in verse 27, orders Subh-i Azal \"...to obey Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest.\" At the time of the apparent appointment Subh-i Azal was still a teenager, had never demonstrated leadership in the Bábí movement, and was still living in the house of his older brother, Bahá'u'lláh. All of this lends credence to the Bahá'í claim that the Báb appointed Subh-i Azal the head of the Bábí Faith so as to divert attention away from Bahá'u'lláh, while allowing Bábís to visit Bahá'u'lláh and consult with him freely, and allowing Bahá'u'lláh to write Bábís easily and freely.\n\nSubh-i Azal's leadership was controversial. He generally absented himself from the Bábí community spending his time in Baghdad in hiding and disguise; and even went so far as to publicly disavow allegiance to the Báb on several occasions. Subh-i Azal gradually alienated himself from a large proportion of the Bábís who started to give their alliance to other claimants. During the time that both Bahá'u'lláh and Subh-i-Azal were in Baghdad, since Subh-i Azal remained in hiding, Bahá'u'lláh performed much of the daily administration of the Bábí affairs.\n\nBahá'u'lláh claimed that in 1853, while a prisoner in Tehran, he was visited by a \"Maid of Heaven\", which symbolically marked the beginning of his mission as a Messenger of God. Ten years later in Baghdad, he made his first public declaration to be He whom God shall make manifest to a small number of followers, and in 1866 he made the claim public. Bahá'u'lláh's claims threatened Subh-i Azal's position as leader of the religion since it would mean little to be leader of the Bábís if \"Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest\" were to appear and start a new religion. Subh-i-Azal responded by making his own claims, but his attempt to preserve the traditional Bábísm was largely unpopular, and his followers became the minority.\nEventually Bahá'u'lláh was recognized by the vast majority of Bábís as \"He whom God shall make manifest\" and his followers began calling themselves Bahá'ís. By 1908, there were probably from half a million to a million Bahá'ís, and at most only a hundred followers of Subh-i Azal.\n\nSubh-i Azal died in Famagusta, Cyprus in 1912, and his followers are known as Azalis or Azali Bábis. MacEoin notes that after the deaths of those Azali Babis who were active in the Persian Constitutional Revolution, the Azali form of Babism entered a stagnation from which it has not recovered as there is no acknowledged leader or central organization.\n\nCurrent estimates of Azalis are that there are no more than a few thousand. The \"World Religion Database\" estimated 7.3 million Bahá'ís in 2010 and stated: \"The Baha'i Faith is the only religion to have grown faster in every United Nations region over the past 100 years than the general population; Baha'i [sic] was thus the fastest-growing religion between 1910 and 2010, growing at least twice as fast as the population of almost every UN region.\" Bahá'í sources since 1991 usually estimate the worldwide Bahá'í population at \"above 5 million\". See Bahá'í statistics.\n\nThe Báb's major writings include the Qayyúmu'l-Asmá' (a commentary on the Sura of Joseph), and the Persian Bayán, which the Bábís saw as superseding the Qur'an. The latter has been translated into French; only portions exist in English. Unfortunately, most of the writings of the Báb have been lost. The Báb himself stated they exceeded five hundred thousand verses in length; the Qur'an, in contrast, is 6300 verses in length. If one assumes 25 verses per page, that would equal 20,000 pages of text. Nabíl-i-Zarandí, in \"The Dawn-Breakers\", mentions nine complete commentaries on the Qur'an, revealed during the Báb's imprisonment at Máh-Kú, which have been lost without a trace. Establishing the true text of the works that are still extant, as already noted, is not always easy, and some texts will require considerable work. Others, however, are in good shape; several of the Báb's major works are available in the handwriting of his trusted secretaries.\n\nMost works were revealed in response to specific questions by Bábís. This is not unusual; the genre of the letter has been a venerable medium for composing authoritative texts as far back as Paul of Tarsus. Three-quarters of the chapters of the New Testament are letters, were composed to imitate letters, or contain letters within them. Sometimes the Báb revealed works very rapidly by chanting them in the presence of a secretary and witnesses.\n\nThe Archives Department at the Bahá'í World Centre currently holds about 190 Tablets of the Báb. Excerpts from several principal works have been published in the only English language compilation of the Báb's writings: \"Selections from the Writings of the Báb\". Denis MacEoin, in his \"Sources for Early Bābī Doctrine and History\", gives a description of many works; much of the following summary is derived from that source. In addition to major works, the Báb revealed numerous letters to his wife and followers, many prayers for various purposes, numerous commentaries on verses or chapters of the Qur'an, and many khutbihs or sermons (most of which were never delivered). Many of these have been lost; others have survived in compilations.\n\nDenis MacEoin considers Bábí law as a \"mishmash of rules and regulations that at times are little more than mere whimsy, revolving around some of the Bab's own obsessions about cleanliness, polite behaviour, and elegance. It is a shari'a, but not in any practical sense. Certainly, it does not seem to be going anywhere...Here and there we find indications that the Bab had been impressed by Europeans and that he wanted his followers to emulate them.\" He further states: \"One comes away from the Bayan with a strong sense that very little of this is to be taken seriously. It is a form of a game, never actually intended to be put into practice, much in the same way that whole sections of the Bab's later books don't, in fact, mean anything very much, but are elaborate exercises in interesting things you can do with Arabic roots. Or the way so many of the Bab's early writings, described as tafsirs on this or that sura of the Qur'an, are really not commentaries at all.\" He further criticizes the Babi laws stating \"The average Babi could hardly hope to afford the three diamonds, four yellow rubies, six emeralds, and six red rubies that he was expected to give to the Babi Messiah, let alone find time to observe all the rules and regulations laid down in the book. For all that, the Babi shari'a made an impact.\" Nader Saiedi states that the severe laws of the Bayán were never meant to be put in practice, because their implementation depended on the appearance of He whom God shall make manifest, while at the same time all of the laws would be abrogated unless the Promised One would reaffirm them. Saiedi concludes that these can then only have a strategic and symbolic meaning, and were meant to break through traditions and to focus the Báb’s followers on obedience to He whom God shall make manifest.\n\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13291712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13291712", "title": "Cartesianism", "text": "Cartesianism\n\nCartesianism is the philosophical and scientific system of René Descartes and its subsequent development by other seventeenth century thinkers, most notably Nicolas Malebranche and Baruch Spinoza. Descartes is often regarded as the first thinker to emphasize the use of reason to develop the natural sciences. For him, the philosophy was a thinking system that embodied all knowledge, and expressed it in this way:\n\nCartesians view the mind as being wholly separate from the corporeal body. Sensation and the perception of reality are thought to be the source of untruth and illusions, with the only reliable truths to be had in the existence of a metaphysical mind. Such a mind can perhaps interact with a physical body, but it does not exist in the body, nor even in the same physical plane as the body. The question of how mind and body interact would be a persistent difficulty for Descartes and his followers, with different Cartesians providing different answers.\n\nDescartes held that all existence consists in three distinct substances, each with its own essence:\n\nDescartes brought the question of how reliable knowledge may be obtained (epistemology) to the fore of philosophical enquiry. Many consider this to be Descartes' most lasting influence on the history of philosophy.\n\nCartesianism is a form of rationalism because it holds that scientific knowledge can be derived \"a priori\" from 'innate ideas' through deductive reasoning. Thus Cartesianism is opposed to both Aristotelianism and empiricism, with their emphasis on sensory experience as the source of all knowledge of the world.\n\nFor Descartes, the faculty of deductive reason is supplied by God and may therefore be trusted because God would not deceive us.\n\nIn the Netherlands, where Descartes had lived for a long time, Cartesianism was a doctrine popular mainly among university professors and lecturers. In Germany the influence of this doctrine was not relevant and followers of Cartesianism in the German-speaking border regions between these countries (e.g., the iatromathematician Yvo Gaukes from East Frisia) frequently chose to publish their works in the Netherlands. In France, it was very popular, and gained influence also among Jansenists such as Antoine Arnauld, though there also, as in Italy, it became opposed by the Church. In Italy, the doctrine failed to make inroads, probably since Descartes' works were placed on the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" in 1663.\n\nIn England, because of religious and other reasons, Cartesianism was not widely accepted. Though Henry More was initially attracted to the doctrine, his own changing attitudes toward Descartes mirrored those of the country: \"quick acceptance, serious examination with accumulating ambivalence, final rejection.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136997", "title": "Claudio Ciborra", "text": "Claudio Ciborra\n\nClaudio Ciborra (1951 – 13 February 2005) was an Italian organizational theorist, and Professor of Information Systems and PWC Chair in Risk Management in the London School of Economics. Prior to the LSE, he was professor at the Theseus International Management Institute.\n\nCiborra was an original thinker in his field: the Social Study of Information Systems. His contribution ranks among that of the top names in this and related fields such as Shoshana Zuboff, Wanda Orlikowski, Steve Barley, Lynn Markus, Lucas Introna, Jannis Kallinikos, Geoff Walsham, Rob Kling, Robey, Chrisanthi Avgerou and Richard Boland. He collaborated widely, including with such scholars as Ole Hanseth (University of Oslo) and Giovan Francesco Lanzara (University of Bologna).\n\nCiborra contributed to the following areas.\n\nCiborra goes beyond the typical characterisation of improvisation as situated, pragmatic and contingent action by referring to the existential condition of the actor (his “moods feelings, affectations and fundamental attunement with the situation”). By eschewing the notion of the actor as a “robot” adapting to changing circumstances he reintroduces the personal human aspects that shape our encounters with the world and shows how our affectations define the situation at hand and so shape action.\n\nAs expounded by Ciborra, bricolage can be seen as the constant re-ordering of people and resources, the constant \"trying out\" and experimentation that is the true hallmark of organisational change. But bricolage is not a random trying out: Ciborra emphasises that it is a trying out based on leveraging the world \"as defined by the situation\".\n\nHospitality is Claudio's attempt to present an alternative conception of how IT/IS is implemented. He rejects the scientific explanations of IS implementation (planning, design, goals, targets, methods, procedures) and instead views technology as an alien embodying and exemplifying its alien culture and affordances. Successful implementation is achieved when the \"host\" organisation (i.e. that implementing the technology) is able to extend courtesy and to absorb and appropriate/assimilate the alien culture where it offers advantages such as new ways of working. Claudio also warns that the host must beware that the guest can quickly become hostile.\n\nCiborra claims that much of the IS and IT world (particularly their strategic management, marketing, academia and training organisations) are in crisis. He teaches that this is because IS and IT are treated as scientific disciplines when in fact they are social disciplines and hence thinking about them is based in an inappropriate paradigm which we might call \"Positivism\" (although Ciborra does not use this term).\n\nCiborra drew on the work of Roberto Unger and showed how IS can embody and so be enacted as Formative Context.\n\nCiborra analyses Information System infrastructure using Heidegger's concept of Gestell.\n\nFor further information see \"Labyrinths of Information\", OUP, 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "63184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63184", "title": "Crossroads (mythology)", "text": "Crossroads (mythology)\n\nIn folk magic and mythology, crossroads may represent a location \"between the worlds\" and, as such, a site where supernatural spirits can be contacted and paranormal events can take place. Symbolically, it can mean a locality where two realms touch and therefore represents liminality, a place literally \"neither here nor there\", \"betwixt and between\".\n\nAn 11th-century homily called De Falsis Deis tells us that Mercury or Odin were honored on crossroads.\n\nThe modern English text gives:\n\"There was also a man called Mercury, he was very crafty and deceitful in deed and trickeries, though his speech was fully plausible. The heathens made him a renowned god for themselves; at crossroads they offered sacrifices to him frequently and they often erringly brought praise-offerings to hilltops, all through the devil’s teaching. This false god was honored among the heathens in that day, and he is also called by the name Odin in the Danish manner.\"\n\nIn conjure, rootwork, and hoodoo, a form of African American magical spirituality, in order to acquire facility at various manual and body skills, such as playing a musical instrument, throwing dice, or dancing, one may attend upon a crossroads a certain number of times, either at midnight or just before dawn, and one will meet a \"black man,\" whom some call the Devil, who will bestow upon one the desired skills. In the Vodou tradition, Papa Legba is the lwa of crossroads.\n\nIn Western folk mythology, a crossroads can be used to summon a demon in order to broker a supernatural deal. This legend can be seen in many stories. For example, in 1926's \"Faust\", the title character summons the demon Mephistopheles at a crossroads. In the U.S. television show \"Supernatural\", crossroads demons are a recurring plot device.\n\nSome 20th-century blues songs, such as \"Sold It to the Devil\" by Black Spider Dumpling (John D. Twitty), may be about making a deal with the devil at the crossroads. Many modern listeners believe that the premier song about soul-selling at a crossroads is \"Cross Road Blues\" by Robert Johnson. However, the song's lyrics merely describe a man trying to hitchhike; the sense of foreboding has been interpreted as the singer's apprehension of finding himself, a young black man in the 1920s deep south, alone after dark and at the mercy of passing motorists. The idea of selling one's soul for instrumental skills predates the American South as several virtuoso classical musicians such as Paganini had stories told about selling their soul for music prowess (and that story may reference back to medieval troubadour doing something similar). The motif of selling one's soul for guitar power has become a staple of both rock and metal guitarists.\n\nCrossroads are very important both in Brazilian mythology (related to the headless mule, the devil, the Besta Fera and the Brazilian version of the werewolf) and religions (as the favourite place for the manifestation of \"left-hand\" entities such as Exus and where to place offerings to the Orishas). Eshu and Legba derive from the same African deity, although they are viewed in markedly different manners among traditions. For example, Papa Legba is considered by Haitian Vodou practitioners to be closest to Saint Peter, although in Brazilian Quimbanda it is not uncommon to see Exu closely associated with demonic entities such as Lucifer, clad in Mephistophelean attire and bearing a trident.\n\nIn the UK there was a tradition of burying at crossroads criminals and suicides. This may have been due to the crossroads marking the boundaries of the settlement coupled with a desire to bury those outside of the law outside the settlement, or that the many roads would confuse the dead.\n\n"}
{"id": "37626053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37626053", "title": "Daoist meditation", "text": "Daoist meditation\n\nDaoist meditation refers to the traditional meditative practices associated with the Chinese philosophy and religion of Daoism, including concentration, mindfulness, contemplation, and visualization. Techniques of Daoist meditation are historically interrelated with Buddhist meditation, for instance, 6th-century Daoists developed \"guan\" 觀 \"observation\" insight meditation from Tiantai Buddhist \"anapanasati\" \"mindfulness of breath\" practices. \n\nTraditional Chinese medicine and Chinese martial arts have adapted certain Daoist meditative techniques. Some examples are Daoyin \"guide and pull\" breathing exercises, Neidan \"internal alchemy\" techniques, Neigong \"internal skill\" practices, Qigong breathing exercises, Zhan zhuang \"standing like a post\" techniques. The opposite direction of adoption has also taken place, when the martial art of Taijiquan, \"great ultimate fist\", become one of the practices of modern Taoist monks, while historically it was not among traditional techniques.\n\nThe Chinese language has several keywords for Daoist meditation practices, some of which are difficult to translate accurately into English.\n\nLivia Kohn (2008a:118) distinguishes three basic types of Daoist meditation: \"concentrative\", \"insight\", and \"visualization\".\n\n\"Ding\" 定 literally means \"decide; settle; stabilize; definite; firm; solid\" and early scholars such as Xuanzang used it to translate Sanskrit \"samadhi\" \"deep meditative contemplation\" in Chinese Buddhist texts. In this sense, Kohn (2008c:358) renders \"ding\" as \"intent contemplation\" or \"perfect absorption.\" The \"Zuowanglun\" has a section called \"Taiding\" 泰定 \"intense concentration\"\n\n\"Guan\" 觀 basically means \"look at (carefully); watch; observe; view; scrutinize\" (and names the \"Yijing\" Hexagram 20 \"Guan\" \"Viewing\"). \"Guan\" became the Daoist technical term for \"monastery; abbey\", exemplified by Louguan 樓觀 \"Tiered Abbey\" temple, designating \"Observation Tower\", which was a major Daoist center from the 5th through 7th centuries (see Louguantai). Kohn (2008d:452) says the word \"guan\", \"intimates the role of Taoist sacred sites as places of contact with celestial beings and observation of the stars.\" Tang Dynasty (618–907) Daoist masters developed \"guan\" \"observation\" meditation from Tiantai Buddhist \"zhiguan\" 止觀 \"cessation and insight\" meditation, corresponding to śamatha-vipaśyanā – the two basic types of Buddhist meditation are \"samatha\" \"calm abiding; stabilizing meditation\" and \"vipassanā\" \"clear observation; analysis\". Kohn (2008d:453) explains, \"The two words indicate the two basic forms of Buddhist meditation: \"zhi\" is a concentrative exercise that achieves one-pointedness of mind or \"cessation\" of all thoughts and mental activities, while \"guan\" is a practice of open acceptance of sensory data, interpreted according to Buddhist doctrine as a form of \"insight\" or wisdom.\" \"Guan\" meditators would seek to merge individual consciousness into emptiness and attain unity with the Dao. \n\n\"Cun\" 存 usually means \"exist; be present; live; survive; remain\", but has a sense of \"to cause to exist; to make present\" in the Daoist meditation technique, which both the Shangqing School and Lingbao Schools popularized.\nIt thus means that the meditator, by an act of conscious concentration and focused intention, causes certain energies to be present in certain parts of the body or makes specific deities or scriptures appear before his or her mental eye. For this reason, the word is most commonly rendered \"to visualize\" or, as a noun, \"visualization.\" Since, however, the basic meaning of \"cun\" is not just to see or be aware of but to be actually present, the translation \"to actualize\" or\" actualization\" may at times be correct if somewhat alien to the Western reader. (Kohn 2008b:287) \n\nWithin the above three types of Daoist meditation, some important practices are:\n\nThe earliest Chinese references to meditation date from the Warring States period (475-221 BCE), when the philosophical Hundred Schools of Thought flourished.\n\nFour chapters of the \"Guanzi\" have descriptions of meditation practices: \"Xinshu\" 心術 \"Mind techniques\" (chapters 36 and 37), \"Baixin\" 白心 \"Purifying the mind\" (38), and \"Neiye\" \"Inward training\" (49). Modern scholars (e.g., Harper 1999:880, Roth 1999:25) believe the \"Neiye\" text was written in the 4th century BCE and the others were derived from it. A. C. Graham (1989:100) regards the \"Neiye\" as \"possibly the oldest 'mystical' text in China\"; Harold Roth (1991:611-2) describes it as \"a manual on the theory and practice of meditation that contains the earliest references to breath control and the earliest discussion of the physiological basis of self-cultivation in the Chinese tradition.\" Owing to the consensus that proto-Daoist Huang-Lao philosophers at the Jixia Academy in Qi composed the core \"Guanzi\", \"Neiye\" meditation techniques are technically \"Daoistic\" rather than \"Daoist\" (Roth 1991).\n\n\"Neiye\" Verse 8 associates \"dingxin\" 定心 \"stabilizing the mind\" with acute hearing and clear vision, and generating \"jing\" 精 \"vital essence\". However, thought, says Roth (1999:114), is considered \"an impediment to attaining the well-ordered mind, particularly when it becomes excessive.\" \n<poem>If you can be aligned and be tranquil,\nOnly then can you be stable.\nWith a stable mind at your core,\nWith the eyes and ears acute and clear,\nAnd with the four limbs firm and fixed,\nYou can thereby make a lodging place for the vital essence.\nThe vital essence: it is the essence of the vital energy.\nWhen the vital energy is guided, it [the vital essence] is generated,\nBut when it is generated, there is thought,\nWhen there is thought, there is knowledge,\nBut when there is knowledge, then you must stop.\nWhenever the forms of the mind have excessive knowledge,\nYou lose your vitality. (tr. Roth 1999:60)</poem>\n\nVerse 18 contains the earliest Chinese reference to practicing breath-control meditation. Breathing is said to \"coil and uncoil\" or \"contract and expand\"', \"with coiling/contracting referring to exhalation and uncoiling/expanding to inhalation\" (Roth 1991:619). \n<poem>For all [to practice] this Way:\nYou must coil, you must contract,\nYou must uncoil, you must expand,\nYou must be firm, you must be regular [in this practice].\nHold fast to this excellent [practice]; do not let go of it.\nChase away the excessive; abandon the trivial. \nAnd when you reach its ultimate limit\nYou will return to the Way and its inner power. (18, tr. Roth 1999:78)</poem>\n\n\"Neiye\" Verse 24 summarizes \"inner cultivation\" meditation in terms of \"shouyi\" 守一 \"maintaining the one\" and \"yunqi\" 運氣 \"revolving the \"qi\"\". Roth (1999:116) says this earliest extant \"shouyi\" reference \"appears to be a meditative technique in which the adept concentrates on nothing but the Way, or some representation of it. It is to be undertaken when you are sitting in a calm and unmoving position, and it enables you to set aside the disturbances of perceptions, thoughts, emotions, and desires that normally fill your conscious mind.\" \n<poem>When you enlarge your mind and let go of it,\nWhen you relax your vital breath and expand it,\nWhen your body is calm and unmoving:\nAnd you can maintain the One and discard the myriad disturbances.\nYou will see profit and not be enticed by it,\nYou will see harm and not be frightened by it.\nRelaxed and unwound, yet acutely sensitive,\nIn solitude you delight in your own person.\nThis is called \"revolving the vital breath\":\nYour thoughts and deeds seem heavenly. (24, tr. Roth 1999:92) </poem>\n\nSeveral passages in the classic \"Daodejing\" are interpreted as referring to meditation. For instance, \"Attain utmost emptiness, Maintain utter stillness\" (16, tr. Mair 1994:78) emphasizes \"xu\" 虛 \"empty; void\" and \"jing\" 靜 \"still; quiet\", both of which are central meditative concepts. Randal P. Peerenboom (1995:179) describes Laozi's contemplative process as \"apophatic meditation\", the \"emptying of all images (thoughts, feelings, and so on) rather than concentration on or filling the mind with images\", comparable with Buddhist \"nirodha-samapatti\" \"cessation of feelings and perceptions\" meditation. \n\nVerse 10 gives what Roth (1999:150) calls \"probably the most important evidence for breathing meditation\" in the \"Daodejing\".\n<poem>While you\nCultivate the soul and embrace unity,\ncan you keep them from separating?\nFocus your vital breath until it is supremely soft,\ncan you be like a baby?\nCleanse the mirror of mysteries,\ncan you make it free of blemish?\nLove the people and enliven the state,\ncan you do so without cunning?\nOpen and close the gate of heaven,\ncan you play the part of the female?\nReach out with clarity in all directions,\ncan you refrain from action?\nIt gives birth to them and nurtures them,\nIt gives birth to them but does not possess them,\nIt rears them but does not control them.\nThis is called “mysterious integrity.” (tr. Mair 1994:69)</poem>\nThree of these \"Daodejing\" phrases resonate with \"Neiye\" meditation vocabulary. \"Baoyi\" 抱一 \"embrace unity\" compares with \"shouyi\" 守一 \"maintain the One\" (24, Roth 1999:92 above). \"Zhuanqi\" 專氣 \"focus your vital breath\" is \"zhuanqi\" 摶氣 \"concentrating your vital breath\" (19, tr. Roth 1999:82). \"Dichu xuanjian\" 滌除玄覽 \"cleanse the mirror of mysteries\" and \"jingchu qi she\" 敬除其舍 \"diligently clean out its lodging place\" (13, Roth 1999:70) have the same verb \"chu\" \"eliminate; remove\".\n\nThe \"Daodejing\" exists in two received versions, named after the commentaries. The \"Heshang Gong version\" (see below) explains textual references to Daoist meditation, but the \"Wang Bi version\" explains them away. Wang Bi (226-249) was a scholar of \"Xuanxue\" \"mysterious studies; neo-Daoism\", which adapted Confucianism to explain Daoism, and his version eventually became the standard \"Daodejing\" interpretation. Richard Wilhelm (tr. Erkes 1945:122) said Wang Bi's commentary changed the \"Daodejing\" \"from a compendiary of magical meditation to a collection of free philosophical aperçus.\"\n\nThe (c. 4th-3rd centuries BCE) Daoist \"Zhuangzi\" refers to meditation in more specific terms than the \"Daodejing\". Two well-known examples of mental disciplines are Confucius and his favorite disciple Yan Hui discussing \"xinzhai\" 心齋 \"heart-mind fasting\" and \"zuowang\" \"sitting forgetting\" (Roth 1991:602). In the first dialogue, Confucius explains \"xinzhai\".\n\"Maintaining the unity of your will,\" said Confucius, \"listen not with your ears but with your mind. Listen not with your mind but with your primal breath. The ears are limited to listening, the mind is limited to tallying. The primal breath, however, awaits things emptily. It is only through the Way that one can gather emptiness, and emptiness is the fasting of the mind.\" (4, tr. Mair 1994:32) \nIn the second, Yan Hui explains \"zuowang\" meditation.\n<poem>Yen Hui saw Confucius again on another day and said, \"I'm making progress.\" \n\"What do you mean?\" \n\"I sit and forget.\" \n\"What do you mean, 'sit and forget'?\" Confucius asked with surprise. \n\"I slough off my limbs and trunk,\" said Yen Hui, \"dim my intelligence, depart from my form, leave knowledge behind, and become identical with the Transformational Thoroughfare. This is what I mean by 'sit and forget'.\" \n\"If you are identical,\" said Confucius, \"then you have no preferences. If you are transformed, then you have no more constants. It's you who is really the worthy one! Please permit me to follow after you.\" (9, tr. Mair 1994:64) </poem>\nRoth (1999:154) interprets this \"slough off my limbs and trunk\" (墮肢體) phrase to mean, \"lose visceral awareness of the emotions and desires, which for the early Taoists, have 'physiological' bases in the various organs.\" Peerenboom further describes \"zuowang\" as \"aphophatic or cessation meditation.\"\nOne does away with sense perceptions, with all forms of cognition (thoughts, knowledge, conceptions, idea, images), with all valuations (preferences, norms, mores). Cognate to and a variant of \"wang\" (忘—to forget) is \"wang\" (亡—to destroy, perish, disappear, not exist). In the apophatic meditative process, all distinctions and ways of distinguishing are \"forgotten\" in the sense of eliminated: they cease to exist. (1995:198) \n\nAnother \"Zhuangzi\" chapter describes breathing meditation that results in a body \"like withered wood\" and a mind \"like dead ashes\".\nSir Motley of Southurb sat leaning against his low table. He looked up to heaven and exhaled slowly. Disembodied, he seemed bereft of soul. Sir Wanderer of Countenance Complete, who stood in attendance before him, asked, \"How can we explain this? Can the body really be made to become like withered wood? Can the mind really be made to become like dead ashes? The one who is leaning against the table now is not the one who was formerly leaning against the table.\" \"Indeed,\" said Sir Motley, \"your question is a good one, Yen. Just now, I lost myself. Can you understand this? You may have heard the pipes of man, but not the pipes of earth. You may have heard the pipes of earth, but not the pipes of heaven.\" (2, tr. Mair 1994:10) \n\nVictor Mair (1994:371) presents \"Zhuangzi\" evidence for \"close affinities between the Taoist sages and the ancient Indian holy men. Yogic breath control and \"asanas\" (postures) were common to both traditions.\" First, this reference to \"breathing from the heels\", which is a modern explanation of the \"sirsasana\" \"supported headstand\".\nThe true man [i.e., \"zhenren\"] of old did not dream when he slept and did not worry when he was awake. His food was not savory, his breathing was deep. The breathing of the true man is from his heels, the breathing of the common man is from his throat. The words of those who unwillingly yield catch in their throats as though they were retching. Those whose desires are deep-seated will have shallow natural reserves. (6, tr. Mair 1994:52) \nSecond, this \"bear strides and bird stretches\" reference to \"xian\" practices of yogic postures and breath exercises. \nRetiring to bogs and marshes, dwelling in the vacant wilderness, fishing and living leisurely—all this is merely indicative of nonaction. But it is favored by the scholars of rivers and lakes, men who flee from the world and wish to be idle. Blowing and breathing, exhaling and inhaling, expelling the old and taking in the new, bear strides and bird stretches—all this is merely indicative of the desire for longevity. But it is favored by scholars who channel the vital breath and flex the muscles and joints, men who nourish the physical form so as to emulate the hoary age of Progenitor P'eng [i.e., Peng Zu]. (15, tr. Mair 1994:145) \nMair previously (1991:159) noted the (c. 168 BCE) Mawangdui Silk Texts, famous for two \"Daodejing\" manuscripts, include a painted text that illustrates gymnastic exercises–including the \"odd expression 'bear strides'.\"\n\nSome writing on a Warring States era jade artifact could be an earlier record of breath meditation than the \"Neiye\", \"Daodejing\", or \"Zhuangzi\" (Harper 1999:881). This rhymed inscription entitled \"xingqi\" 行氣 \"circulating \"qi\"\" was inscribed on a dodecagonal block of jade, tentatively identified as a pendant or a knob for a staff. While the dating is uncertain, estimates range from approximately 380 BCE (Guo Moruo) to earlier than 400 BCE (Joseph Needham). In any case, Roth (1997:298) says, \"both agree that this is the earliest extant evidence for the practice of guided breathing in China.\"\n\nThe inscription says:\n<poem>To circulate the Vital Breath:\nBreathe deeply, then it will collect.\nWhen it is collected, it will expand.\nWhen it expands, it will descend.\nWhen it descends, it will become stable.\nWhen it is stable, it will be regular.\nWhen it is regular, it will sprout.\nWhen it sprouts, it will grow.\nWhen it grows, it will recede.\nWhen it recedes, it will become heavenly.\nThe dynamism of Heaven is revealed in the ascending;\nThe dynamism of Earth is revealed in the descending.\nFollow this and you will live; oppose it and you will die. (tr. Roth 1997:298) </poem>\nPracticing this series of exhalation and inhalation patterns, one becomes directly aware of the \"dynamisms of Heaven and Earth\" through ascending and descending breath. \"Tianji\" 天機, translated \"dynamism of Heaven\", also occurs in the \"Zhuangzi\" (6, tr. Mair 1994:52), as \"natural reserves\" in \"Those whose desires are deep-seated will have shallow natural reserves.\" Roth (1997:298-299) notes the final line's contrasting verbs, \"xun\" 訓 \"follow; accord with\" and \"ni\" 逆 \"oppose; resist\", were similarly used in the (168 BCE) \"Huangdi Sijing\" Yin-yang silk manuscripts.\n\nAs Daoism was flourishing during the Han Dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE), meditation practitioners continued early techniques and developed new ones. \n\nThe (139 BCE) \"Huainanzi\", which is an eclectic compilation attributed to Liu An, frequently describes meditation, especially as a means for rulers to achieve effective government. \nInternal evidence reveals that the \"Huainanzi\" authors were familiar with the \"Guanzi\" methods of meditation (Roth 1991:630). The text uses \"xinshu\" 心術 \"mind techniques\" both as a general term for \"inner cultivation\" meditation practices and as a specific name for the \"Guanzi\" chapters (Major et al. 2010:44). \nThe essentials of the world: do not lie in the Other but instead lie in the self; do not lie in other people but instead lie in your own person. When you fully realize it [the Way] in your own person, then all the myriad things will be arrayed before you. When you thoroughly penetrate the teachings of the Techniques of the Mind, then you will be able to put lusts and desires, likes and dislikes, outside yourself. (tr. Major et al. 2010:71). \n\nSeveral \"Huainanzi\" passages associate breath control meditation with longevity and immortality (Roth 1991:648). For example, two famous \"xian\" \"immortals\":\nNow Wang Qiao and Chi Songzi exhaled and inhaled, spitting out the old and internalizing the new. They cast off form and abandoned wisdom; they embraced simplicity and returned to genuineness; in roaming with the mysterious and subtle above, they penetrated to the clouds and Heaven. Now if one wants to study their Way and does not attain their nurturing of the \"qi\" and their lodging of the spirit but only imitates their every exhale and inhale, their contracting and expanding, it is clear that one will not be able to mount the clouds and ascend on the vapors. (tr. Major et al. 2010:414) \n\nThe (c. 2nd century CE) \"Daodejing\" commentary attributed to Heshang Gong 河上公 (lit. \"Riverbank Elder\") provides what Kohn (2008:118) calls the \"first evidence for Taoist meditation\" and \"proposes a concentrative focus on the breath for harmonization with the Dao.\"\n\nEduard Erkes says (1945:127-128) the purpose of the Heshang Gong commentary was not only to explicate the \"Daodejing\", but chiefly to enable \"the reader to make practical use of the book and in teaching him to use it as a guide to meditation and to a life becoming a Taoist skilled in meditative training.\"\n\nTwo examples from \"Daodejing\" 10 (see above) are the Daoist meditation terms \"xuanlan\" 玄覽 (lit. \"dark/mysterious display\") \"observe with a tranquil mind\" and \"tianmen\" 天門 (lit. \"gate of heaven\") \"middle of the forehead\". \"Xuanlan\" occurs in the line 滌除玄覽 that Mair renders \"Cleanse the mirror of mysteries\". Erkes (1945:142) translates \"By purifying and cleansing one gets the dark look\", because the commentary says, \"One must purify one's mind and let it become clear. If the mind stays in dark places, the look knows all its doings. Therefore it is called the dark look.\" Erkes explains \"xuanlan\" as \"the Taoist term for the position of the eyes during meditation, when they are half-closed and fixed on the point of the nose.\" \"Tianmen\" occurs in the line 天門開闔 \"Open and close the gate of heaven\". The Heshang commentary (tr. Erkes 1945:143) says, \"The gate of heaven is called the purple secret palace of the north-pole. To open and shut means to end and to begin with the five junctures. In the practice of asceticism, the gate of heaven means the nostrils. To open means to breathe hard; to shut means to inhale and exhale.\"\n\nThe (c. 1st century BCE to 2nd century CE) \"Taiping Jing\" \"Scripture of Great Peace\" emphasized \"shouyi\" \"guarding the One\" meditation, in which one visualizes different cosmic colors corresponding with different parts of one's body.\nIn a state of complete concentration, when the light first arises, make sure to hold on to it and never let it go. First of all, it will be red, after a long time it will change to be white, later again it will be green, and then it will pervade all of you completely. When you further persist in guarding the One, there will be nothing within that would not be brilliantly illuminated, and the hundred diseases will be driven out. (tr. Kohn 1989b:140) \nBesides \"guarding the One\" where a meditator is assisted by the god of Heaven, the \"Taiping jing\" also mentions \"guarding the Two\" with help from the god of Earth, \"guarding the Three\" with help from spirits of the dead, and \"guarding the Four\" or \"Five\" in which one is helped by the myriad beings (Kohn 1989b:139).\n\nThe \"Taiping jing shengjun bizhi\" 太平經聖君祕旨 \"Secret Directions of the Holy Lord on the Scripture of Great Peace\" is a Tang-period collection of \"Taiping jing\" fragments concerning meditation. It provides some detailed information, for instance, interpretations of the colors visualized. \nIn guarding the light of the One, you may see a light as bright the rising sun. This is a brilliance as strong as that of the sun at noon. In guarding the light of the One, you may see a light entirely green. When this green is pure, it is the light of lesser yang. In guarding the light of the One, you may see a light entirely red, just like fire. This is a sign of transcendence. In guarding the light of the One, you may see a light entirely yellow. When this develops a greenish tinge, it is the light of central harmony. This is a potent remedy of the Tao. In guarding the light of the One, you may see a light entirely white. When this is as clear as flowing water, it is the light of lesser yin. In guarding the light of the One, you may see a light entirely black. When this shimmers like deep water, it is the light of greater yin. (tr. Kohn 1993:195-6) \n\nIn the year 142, Zhang Daoling founded the Tianshi \"Celestial Masters\" movement, which was the first organized form of Daoist religion. Zhang and his followers practiced \"Taiping jing\" meditation and visualization techniques. After the Way of the Five Pecks of Rice rebellion against the Han Dynasty, Zhang established a theocratic state in 215, which led to the downfall of the Han.\n\nThe historical term \"Six Dynasties\" collectively refers to the Three Kingdoms (220–280 AD), Jin Dynasty (265–420), and Southern and Northern Dynasties (420–589). During this period of disunity after the fall of the Han, Chinese Buddhism became popular and new schools of religious Daoism emerged.\n\nDaoism's \"first formal visualization texts appear\" in the 3rd century (Kohn 2008a:118). \n\nThe \"Huangting jing\" 黃庭經 \"Scripture of the Yellow Court\" is probably the earliest text describing inner gods and spirits located in the human body. Meditative practices described in the \"Huangting jing\" include visualization of bodily organs and their gods, visualization of the sun and moon, and absorption of \"neijing\" 內景\"inner light\". \n\nThe \"Laozi zhongjing\" 老子中經 \"Central Scripture of Laozi\" similarly describes visualizing and activating gods within the body, along with breathing exercises for meditation and longevity techniques. The adept envisions the yellow and red essences of the sun and moon, which activates Laozi and \"Yunü\" 玉女 \"Jade Woman\" within the abdomen, producing the \"shengtai\" 聖胎 \"sacred embryo\".\n\nThe \"Cantong qi\" \"Kinship of the Three\", attributed to Wei Boyang (fl. 2nd century), criticizes Daoist methods of meditation on inner deities.\n\nThe Jin Dynasty scholar Ge Hong's (c. 320) \"Baopuzi\" \"Master who Embraces Simplicity\", which is an invaluable source for early Daoism, describes \"shouyi\" \"guarding the One\" meditation as a source for magical powers from the \"zhenyi\" 真一 \"True One\".\nRealizing the True One, the original unity and primordial oneness of all, meant placing oneself at the center of the universe, identifying one's physical organs with constellations in the stars. The practice led to control over all the forces of nature and beyond, especially over demons and evil forces. (Kohn 1993:197) \nGe Hong says his teacher Zheng Yin 鄭隱 taught that:\nIf a man can preserve Unity, Unity will also preserve him. In this way the bare blade finds no place in his body to inserts its edge; harmful things find no place in him that will admit entrance to their evil. Therefore, in defeat it is possible to be victorious; in positions of peril, to feel only security. Whether in the shrine of a ghost, in the mountains or forests, in a place suffering the plague, within a tomb, in bush inhabited by tigers and wolves, or in the habitation of snakes, all evils will go far away as long as one remains diligent in the preservation of Unity. (18, tr. Ware 1966:304-5) \n\nThe \"Baopuzi\" also compares \"shouyi\" meditation with a complex \"mingjing\" 明鏡 \"bright mirror\" multilocation visualization process through which an individual can mystically appear in several places at once. \n\nThe Daoist school of Shangqing \"Highest Clarity\" traces its origins to Wei Huacun (252-334), who was a Tianshi adept proficient in meditation techniques. Shangqing adopted the \"Huangting jing\" as scripture, and the hagiography of Wei Huacun claims a \"xian\" \"immortal\" transmitted it (and thirty other texts) to her in 288. Additional divine texts were supposedly transmitted to Yang Xi from 364 to 370, constituting the Shangqing scriptures.\nThe practices they describe include not only concentration on the \"bajing\" 八景 (Eight Effulgences) and visualization of gods in the body, but also active interaction with the gods, ecstatic excursions to the stars and the heavens of the immortals (\"yuanyou\" 遠遊), and the activation of inner energies in a protoform of inner alchemy (\"neidan\"). The world of meditation in this tradition is incomparably rich and colorful, with gods, immortals, body energies, and cosmic sprouts vying for the adept's attention. (Kohn 2008a:119)\n\nBeginning around 400 CE, the Lingbao \"Numinous Treasure\" School eclectically adopted concepts and practices from Daoism and Buddhism, which had recently been introduced to China. Ge Chaofu, Ge Hong's grandnephew, \"released to the world\" the \"Wufu jing\" 五符經 \"Talismans of the Numinous Treasure\" and other Lingbao scriptures, and claimed family transmission down from Ge Xuan (164-244), Ge Hong's great uncle (Bokenkamp 2008:664).\n\nThe Lingbao School added the Buddhist concept of reincarnation to the Daoist tradition of \"xian\" \"immortality; longevity\", and viewed meditation as a means to unify body and spirit (Robinet 1997:157).\n\nMany Lingbao meditation methods came from native Chinese traditions, such as visualizing inner gods (\"Taiping jing\"), and circulating the solar and lunar essences (\"Huangting jing\" and \"Laozi zhongjing\"). Meditation rituals changed from individuals practicing privately to Lingbao clergy worshipping communally; frequently with the \"multidimensional quality\" of a priest performing interior visualizations while leading congregants in communal visualization rites (Robinet 1997:167).\n\nDuring the Southern and Northern Dynasties period, the introduction of traditional Buddhist meditation methods richly influenced Daoist meditation.\n\nThe (c. late 5th-century) The Northern Celestial Masters text \"Xishengjing\" \"Scripture of Western Ascension\" recommends cultivating an empty state of consciousness called \"wuxin\" 無心 (lit. \"no mind\") \"cease all mental activity\" (translating Sanskrit \"acitta\" from \"citta\" चित्त \"mind\"), and advocates a simple form of \"guan\" 觀 \"observation\" insight meditation (translating \"vipassanā\" from \"vidyā\" विद्या \"knowledge\") (Kohn 2008a:119).\n\nTwo early Chinese encyclopedias, the (c. 570) Daoist encyclopedia \"Wushang biyao\" 無上秘要 \"Supreme Secret Essentials\" and the (7th century) Buddhistic \"Daojiao yishu\" 道教義樞 \"Pivotal Meaning of Daoist Teachings\" distinguish various levels of \"guan\" 觀 \"observation\" insight meditation, under the influence of the Buddhist Madhyamaka school's Two truths doctrine. The \"Daojiao yishu\", for instance, says. \nRealize also that in concentration and insight, one does not reach enlightenment and perfection of body and mind through the two major kinds of observation [of energy and spirit] alone. Rather, there are five different sets of three levels of observation. One such set of three is: 1. Observation of apparent existence. 2. Observation of real existence. 3. Observation of partial emptiness. (tr. Kohn 1993:225) \n\nDaoism was in competition with Confucianism and Buddhism during the Tang Dynasty (618–907), and Daoists integrated new meditation theories and techniques from Buddhists.\n\nThe 8th century was a \"heyday\" of Daoist meditation (Kohn 2008a:119); recorded in works such as Sun Simiao's \"Cunshen lianqi ming\" 存神煉氣銘 \"Inscription on Visualization of Spirit and Refinement of Energy\", Sima Chengzhen 司馬承禎's \"Zuowanglun\" \"Essay on Sitting in Forgetfulness\", and Wu Yun 吳筠's \"Shenxian kexue lun\" 神仙可學論 \"Essay on How One May Become a Divine Immortal through Training\". These Daoist classics reflect a variety of meditation practices, including concentration exercises, visualizations of body energies and celestial deities to a state of total absorption in the Dao, and contemplations of the world. \n\nThe (9th century) \"Qingjing Jing\" \"Scripture of Clarity and Quiescence\" associates the Tianshi tradition of a divinized Laozi with Daoist \"guan\" and Buddhist \"vipaśyanā\" methods of insight meditation. \n\nUnder the Song Dynasty (960–1279), the Daoist schools of Quanzhen \"Complete Authenticity\" and Zhengyi \"Orthodox Unity\" emerged, and Neo-Confucianism became prominent.\n\nAlong with the continued integration of meditation methods, two new visualization and concentration practices became popular (Kohn 2008a:119). \"Neidan\" \"inner alchemy\" involved the circulation and refinement of inner energies in a rhythm based on the \"Yijing\". Meditation focused upon starry deities (e.g., the \"Santai\" 三台 \"Three Steps\" stars in Ursa Major) and warrior protectors (e.g., the \" Xuanwu\" 玄武 \"Dark Warrior; Black Tortoise\" Northern Sky spirit).\n\nDuring the Yuan Dynasty (1279–1367), Daoists continued to develop the Song period practices of \"neidan\" alchemy and deity visualizations.\n\nUnder the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644), \"neidan\" methods were interchanged between Daoism and Chan Buddhism. Many literati in the scholar-official class practiced Daoist and Buddhist meditations, which exerted a stronger influence on Confucianism (Kohn 2008a:120). \n\nIn the Qing Dynasty (1644–1912), Daoists wrote the first specialized texts on \"nüdan\" 女丹 \"inner alchemy for women\", and developed new forms of physical meditation, notably \"Taijiquan\"—sometimes described as meditation in motion or moving meditation. This \"Neijia\" internal martial art is named after the Taijitu symbol, which was a traditional focus in both Daoist and Neo-Confucian meditation.\n\nDaoism and other Chinese religions were suppressed under the Republic of China (1912–1949) and in the People's Republic of China from 1949 to 1979. Many Daoist temples and monasteries have been reopened in recent years. \n\nWestern knowledge of Daoist meditation was stimulated by Richard Wilhelm's (German 1929, English 1962) \"The Secret of the Golden Flower\" translation of the (17th century) \"neidan\" text \"Taiyi jinhua zongzhi\" 太乙金華宗旨.\n\nIn the 20th century, the \"Qigong\" movement has incorporated and popularized Daoist meditation, and \"mainly employs concentrative exercises but also favors the circulation of energy in an inner-alchemical mode\" (Kohn 2008a:120). Teachers have created new methods of meditation, such as Wang Xiangzhai's \"zhan zhuang\" \"standing like a post\" in the \"Yiquan\" school. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108195", "title": "David Malet Armstrong", "text": "David Malet Armstrong\n\nDavid Malet Armstrong (8 July 1926 – 13 May 2014), often D. M. Armstrong, was an Australian philosopher. He is well known for his work on metaphysics and the philosophy of mind, and for his defence of a factualist ontology, a functionalist theory of the mind, an externalist epistemology, and a necessitarian conception of the laws of nature. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2008.\n\nKeith Campbell said that Armstrong's contributions to metaphysics and epistemology \"helped to shape philosophy's agenda and terms of debate\", and that Armstrong's work \"always concerned to elaborate and defend a philosophy which is ontically economical, synoptic, and compatibly continuous with established results in the natural sciences\".\n\nAfter studying at the University of Sydney, Armstrong did a B.Phil at the University of Oxford and a Ph.D at the University of Melbourne. He taught at Birkbeck College in 1954–55, then at the University of Melbourne from 1956–63. In 1964, he became Challis Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sydney, where he stayed until his retirement in 1991. During his career, he was a visiting lecturer at a number of institutions including Yale, Stanford, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Texas at Austin and Franklin and Marshall College.\n\nIn 1974, when the University of Sydney's Philosophy department split into two departments—the Department for General Philosophy and the Department for Traditional and Modern Philosophy—Armstrong joined the latter along with David Stove and Keith Campbell, while the former department pursued more radical politics and taught courses on Marxism and feminism. The two departments were reunified in 2000.\n\nArmstrong married Jennifer Mary de Bohun Clark in 1982 and had step children. He previously married Madeleine Annette Haydon in 1950. He also served in the Royal Australian Navy.\n\nIn 1950, Armstrong formed an Anti-Conscription Committee with David Stove and Eric Dowling, all three former students of John Anderson, the Australian philosopher, who supported conscription and also believed that anti-conscription opinions ought to be suppressed.\n\nTo mark the 50th anniversary in 2014 of Armstrong's appointment to the Challis Chair of Philosophy at Sydney University, \"Quadrant\" magazine published a tribute to him (originally written in 1991) by David Stove and an overview of Armstrong's work by Andrew Irvine.\n\nArmstrong's philosophy is broadly naturalistic. In \"Sketch for a Systematic Metaphysics\", Armstrong states that his philosophical system rests upon \"the assumption that all that exists is the space time world, the physical world as we say\". He justifies this by saying that the physical world \"seems obviously to exist\" while other things \"seem much more hypothetical\". From this fundamental assumption flows a rejection of abstract objects including Platonic forms.\n\nArmstrong's development as a philosopher was influenced heavily by John Anderson, David Lewis, and J. J. C. Smart, as well as by Ullin Place, Herbert Feigl, Gilbert Ryle and G. E. Moore. Armstrong collaborated with C. B. Martin on a collection of critical essays on John Locke and George Berkeley.\n\nArmstrong's philosophy, while systematic, does not spend any time on social or ethical matters, and also does not attempt to build a philosophy of language. He once described his slogan as 'Put semantics last' and, in \"Universals & Scientific Realism\", he rebuts an arguments in favour of Plato's theory of forms that rely on semantics by describing \"a long but, I think, on the whole discreditable tradition which tries to settle ontological questions on the basis of semantic considerations\".\n\nIn metaphysics, Armstrong defends the view that universals exist (although Platonic uninstantiated universals do not exist). Those universals match up with the fundamental particles that science tells us about. Armstrong describes his philosophy as a form of scientific realism.\n\nArmstrong's universals are \"sparse\": not every predicate will have an accompanying property, but only those which are deemed basic by scientific investigation. The ultimate ontology of universals would only be realised with the completion of physical science. Mass would thus be a universal (subject to mass not being discarded by future physicists). Armstrong realises that we will need to refer to and use properties that are not considered universals in his sparse ontology—for instance, being able to refer to something \"being a game\" (to use the example from Wittgenstein's \"Philosophical Investigations\"). Armstrong then suggests that a supervenience relation exists between these second order properties and the ontologically authentic universals given to us by physics.\n\nArmstrong's theory of universals treats relations as having no particular ontological difficulty, they can be treated in the same way non-relational properties are. How Armstrong's theory of universals deals with relations with varying adicities has been raised as an issue by Fraser MacBride. MacBride argues that there can be relations where the number of terms in the relation varies across instances. Armstrong's response is to affirm a theory he describes as the Principle of Instantial Invariance, wherein the adicity of properties are essential and invariant. According to Armstrong, complex relations which seem to challenge the principle are not ontologically real but are second-order properties that can be reduced to more basic properties that subscribe to the Principle of Instantial Invariance.\n\nArmstrong rejects nominalist accounts of properties that attempt to align properties simply with classes. Coextension is a problem they face: if properties are simply classes, in a world where all blue things are also wet, class nominalists are unable to draw a distinction between the property of being blue and being wet. He provides an analogy to the argument in \"Euthyphro\": to say that electrons are electrons because they are part of the class of electrons puts the cart before the horse. They are part of the class of electrons \"because\" they \"are\" electrons.\n\nIn Armstrong's view, nominalisms can also be criticised for producing a blob theory of reality. Objects have structure: they have parts, those parts are made of molecules, which are in turn made up of atoms standing in relation to one another, which are in turn made up of subatomic particles and so on. Blobbiness also threatens Platonic universals: a particular instantiating a universal in a world of Platonic universals becomes a matter of the blob-particular having a relation to a universal \"elsewhere\" (in the Platonic heaven, say), rather than having an internal relation in the way that a chemical element does to a constituent atom.\n\nArmstrong further rejects nominalisms that deny that properties and relations exist in reality because he suggests that these sorts of nominalisms, specifically referring to what he calls class nominalism, and resemblance nominalism, postulate primitives of either class membership or resemblance. \nThis primitive results in a vicious regress for both kinds of nominalisms, Armstrong suggests, thus motivating his states-of-affairs based system that unites properties by postulating a primitive tie of instantiation based on a fact-ontology, called states of affairs. \nIn terms of the origin of Armstrong's view of universals, Armstrong says his view of universals is \"relatively unexplored territory\" but points to Hilary Putnam's 1970 paper 'On Properties' as a possible forerunner. He also says that \"Plato in his later works, Aristotle and the Scholastic Realists were ahead of contemporary philosophy in this matter, although handicapped by the relative backwardness of the science and the scientific methodology of their day\".\n\nCentral to Armstrong's philosophy is the idea of states of affairs (\"facts\" in Russell's terminology): in \"Sketch for a Systematic Metaphysics\", Armstrong claims that states of affairs are \"\"the\" fundamental structures in reality\". A state of affairs roughly put is an instantiation of a particular and a universal: a state of affairs might be that a particular atom exists, instantiating a universal (say, that it is of a particular element, if chemical elements are ultimately accepted as part of Armstrong's universals). The particulars in Armstrong's ontology must have at least one universal—just as he rejects uninstantiated universals, he also rejects \"unpropertied particulars\".\n\nArmstrong argues that states of affairs are distinct things in ontology because they are more than the sum of their parts. If some particular \"a\" has a non-symmetric relation \"R\" to another particular \"b\", then \"R (a, b)\" differs from \"R (b, a)\". It may be the case that \"R (a, b)\" obtains in the world but \"R (b, a)\" does not. Without states of affairs instantiating the particulars and universals (including relations), we cannot account for the truth of the one case and the falsity of the other.\n\nArmstrong's theory of universals gives him the basis for an understanding of laws of nature as being relations between universals, a non-Humean account of laws of nature proposed independently by Armstrong, Michael Tooley, and Fred Dretske. This account posits that the relations between universals are truthmakers for the statements about physical laws, and it is realist as it accepts that laws of nature are a feature of the world rather than just a way we talk about the world. Armstrong identifies the laws as holding between universals rather than particulars as an account of laws involving just particulars rather than universals would not adequately explain how laws of nature operate in the case of counterfactuals.\n\nTo illustrate the theory, Stephen Mumford gives the example of \"all ravens are black\". Under the theory of Armstrong, Tooley and Dretske, there is a relation of necessity between the universals ravenhood and blackness, rather than there being a relationship with every single raven. This allows the explanation of laws of nature that have not been instantiated. Mumford cites the frequently-used example of the moa bird: \"It is supposed that every bird of this now-extinct species died at a young age, though not because of anything in its genetic makeup. Rather, it died mainly because of some virus that just happened to sweep through the population. One bird could have escaped the virus only to be eaten by a predator on the day before its fiftieth birthday.\" Under the theory of Armstrong, Tooley and Dretske, such a coincidence would not be a law of nature.\n\nArmstrong rejects dispositionalism, the idea that dispositional properties (or powers as they are sometimes referred to) are ontologically significant and have an important role in explaining laws of nature. Armstrong believes that the challenge that dispositionalism presents for his account of laws of nature is not in the case of \"manifested\" dispositions (say, a glass dropping on the ground and breaking) but \"unmanifested\" dispositions (the fact that counter factually if one were to drop the glass on the ground, it \"would\" break). Armstrong simply states that the disposition is simply in the nature of the instantiated properties of the thing which is supposed to have the disposition.\n\nRegarding truth, Armstrong holds to what he describes as a \"maximalist version\" of truthmaker theory: he believes that every truth has a truthmaker, although there doesn't necessarily exist a one-to-one mapping between truth and truthmaker. The possibility of one to many relations between truths and truthmakers is a feature that Armstrong believes allows truthmaker theory to answer some of the criticisms levelled at older correspondence theories of truth (of which he believes truthmaker theory to be an improved version). Negative truths have truthmakers in Armstrong's account: he gives the example of a wall that is painted green. The wall being painted green is a truth for the proposition that it is \"not\" painted white \"and\" the proposition that it is \"not\" painted red and so on.\n\nThe difficulty in providing an adequate account of truthmakers for events in the past is one reason Armstrong gives for rejecting presentism—the view that only the present exists (another reason being the incompatibility of such a view with special relativity). Presentists, Armstrong argues, must either deny that truthmakers are needed for statements about the past, or account for them \"by postulating rather strange truthmakers\".\n\nArmstrong holds to a physicalist, functionalist theory of the mind. He initially was attracted to Gilbert Ryle's \"The Concept of Mind\" and the rejection of Cartesian dualism. Armstrong did not accept behaviourism and instead defended a theory he referred to as the \"central-state theory\" which identifies mental states with the state of the central nervous system. In \"A Materialist Theory of Mind\", he accepted that mental states such as consciousness exist, but stated that they can be explained as physical phenomena. Armstrong attributes his adoption of the central-state theory to the work of J. J. C. Smart—specifically the paper 'Sensations and Brain Processes'—and traces the lineage from there to Ullin Place's 1956 paper 'Is Consciousness a Brain Process?'\n\nStephen Mumford said that Armstrong's \"A Materialist Theory of Mind\" \"represents an authoritative statement of Australian materialism and was, and still is, a seminal piece of philosophy\".\n\nArmstrong's view of knowledge is that the conditions of knowledge are satisfied when you have a justified true belief that you arrived at through a reliable process: that is, the belief was caused by some factor in the external world (hence the label of externalism). Armstrong uses the analogy of a thermometer: as a thermometer changes to reflect the temperature of the environment it is in, so must one's beliefs if they are reliably formed. The connection between knowledge and the external world, for Armstrong, is a nomological relationship (that is, a law of nature relationship). Here, Armstrong's view is broadly similar to that of Alvin Goldman and Robert Nozick. The intuitions that lead to this kind of externalism led Alvin Plantinga towards an account of knowledge that added the requirement for 'properly-functioning' cognitive systems operating according to a design plan.\n\nOn the question of the relationship between beliefs and knowledge, Armstrong defends a \"weak acceptance\" of the belief condition, namely that if a person can be said to know some thing \"p\", he or she believes \"p\". In a paper for the Aristotelian Society, Armstrong rejects a series of linguistic arguments for a rejection of the belief condition which argue that one can have knowledge without having belief because a common usage of the word 'belief' is to imply lack of knowledge—Armstrong gives the example of if you asked a man on a railway station whether the train has just left and he said \"I believe it has\", you would take from this that he does not \"know\" that it has.\n\nArmstrong also argues that contradictory beliefs show that there \"is\" a connection between beliefs and knowledge. He gives the example of a woman who has learned her husband is dead but cannot bring herself to \"believe\" her husband is dead. She both believes and disbelieves her husband is dead: it just happens that one of her two beliefs is justified, true and satisfies some knowledge conditions.\n\nArmstrong presents a response to Colin Radford's modified version of the \"unconfident examinee\" example. A student is asked when Queen Elizabeth I died, and he hesitatingly answers \"1603\" and exhibits no confidence in his answer. He has forgotten that at some point previously, he studied English history. Radford presents this as an example of knowledge without belief. But Armstrong differs on this: the unconfident examinee has a belief that Queen Elizabeth I died in 1603, he knows that she died in 1603, but he does not \"know that he knows\". Armstrong rejects the KK Principle—that to know some thing \"p\", one must know that one knows \"p\". Armstrong's rejection of the KK Principle is consistent with his wider externalist project.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "613052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=613052", "title": "Direct and indirect realism", "text": "Direct and indirect realism\n\nThe question of direct or naïve realism, as opposed to indirect or representational realism, arises in the philosophy of perception and of mind out of the debate over the nature of conscious experience; the epistemological question of whether the world we see around us is the real world itself or merely an internal perceptual copy of that world generated by neural processes in our brain. Naïve realism is known as \"direct\" realism when developed to counter \"indirect\" or representative realism, also known as epistemological dualism, the philosophical position that our conscious experience is not of the real world itself but of an internal representation, a miniature virtual-reality replica of the world.\n\nIndirect realism is broadly equivalent to the accepted view of perception in natural science that states that we do not and cannot perceive the external world as it really is but know only our ideas and interpretations of the way the world is. Representationalism is one of the key assumptions of cognitivism in psychology. The representational realist would deny that \"first-hand knowledge\" is a coherent concept, since knowledge is always via some means. Our ideas of the world are interpretations of sensory input derived from an external world that is real (unlike the standpoint of idealism, which holds that only ideas are real, but mind-independent things are not).\n\nThe main alternative to representationalism is anti-representationalism, the view according to which perception is not a process of constructing internal representations.\n\nAristotle was the first to provide a description of direct realism. In \"On the Soul\" he describes how a see-er is informed of the object itself by way of the hylomorphic form carried over the intervening material continuum with which the eye is impressed.\n\nIn medieval philosophy, direct realism was defended by Thomas Aquinas.\n\nIndirect realism was popular with several early modern philosophers, including René Descartes, John Locke, G. W. Leibniz, George Berkeley, and David Hume.\n\nLocke categorized qualities as follows: \n\n\nThomas Reid, a notable member of the Scottish common sense realism was proponent of direct realism. Direct realist views have been attributed to Baruch Spinoza. Immanuel Kant's empirical realism has also been interpreted as a form of direct realism.\n\nLate modern philosophers, J. G. Fichte and G. W. F. Hegel followed Kant in adopting empirical realism. Gottlob Frege (in his paper \"Über Sinn und Bedeutung\") also subscribed to indirect realism.\n\nIn contemporary philosophy, indirect realism has been defended by Edmund Husserl and Bertrand Russell Direct realism has been defended by Hilary Putnam, John McDowell, Galen Strawson, and John R. Searle.\n\nHowever, epistemological dualism has come under sustained attack by other contemporary philosophers, such as Ludwig Wittgenstein (the private language argument) and Wilfrid Sellars in his seminal essay \"Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind\". Indirect realism is argued to be problematical because of Ryle's regress and the homunculus argument. However, recently reliance on the private language argument and the Homunculus Objection has itself come under attack. It can be argued that those who argue for \"inner presence\", to use Antti Revonsuo's term, are not proposing a private \"referent\", with the application of language to it being \"private\" and thus unshareable, but a \"private\" use of \"public\" language. There is no doubt that each of us has a private understanding of public language, a notion that has been experimentally supported; George Steiner refers to our personal use of language as an \"idiolect\", one particular to ourselves in its detail. The question has to be put how a collective use of language can go on when, not only do we have differing understandings of the words we use, but our sensory registrations differ.\n\nThis argument was \"first offered in a more or less fully explicit form in Berkeley (1713).\" It is also referred to as the problem of conflicting appearances (e.g. Myles Burnyeat's article \"Conflicting Appearances\"). It has been argued that \"informed commonsense\" indicates that perceptions often depend on organs of perception. For example, humans would receive visual information very differently if they, like flies, had compound eyes, and may not even be able to imagine how things would appear with entirely different sense organs such as infra-red detectors or echo-location devices. Furthermore, perception systems can misrepresent objects even when in full working order, as shown, for example, by optical illusions like the Müller-Lyer illusion. More dramatically, sometimes people perceive things which are not there at all, which can be termed instances of \"hallucination\" or \"perceptual delusion\".\n\nThe argument from illusion allegedly shows the need to posit sense-data as the immediate objects of perception. In cases of illusion or hallucination, the object has qualities that no public physical object in that situation has and so must be distinct from any such object. Naïve realism may accommodate these facts as they stand by virtue of its very vagueness (or \"open-texture\"): it is not specific or detailed enough to be refuted by such cases. A more developed direct realist might respond by showing that various cases of misperception, failed perception, and perceptual relativity do not make it necessary to suppose that sense-data exist. When a stick submerged in water looks bent a direct realist is not compelled to say the stick actually is bent but can say that the stick can have more than one appearance: a straight stick can look bent when light reflected from the stick arrives at one's eye in a crooked pattern, but this appearance is not necessarily a sense-datum in the mind. Similar things can be said about the coin which appears circular from one vantage point and oval-shaped from another. Pressing on your eyeball with a finger creates double vision but assuming the existence of two sense-data is unnecessary: the direct realist can say that they have two eyes, each giving them a different view of the world. Usually the eyes are focused in the same direction; but sometimes they are not.\n\nHowever, this response is presumably based on previously observed data. If one were to be able to observe nothing other than the stick in the water, with no previous information, it would appear that the stick was bent. Visual depth in particular is a set of inferences, not an actual experience of the space between things in a radial direction outward from the observation point. If all empirical evidence is based upon observation then the entire developed memory and knowledge of every perception and of each sense may be as skewed as the bent stick. Since objects with different qualities are experienced from each of the different perspectives there is no apparent experiential basis for regarding one out of any such set of related perceptual experiences as the one in which the relevant physical object is itself immediately experienced. The most reasonable conclusion is that the experienced object is always distinct from the physical object or at least that there is no way to identify which, if any, of the immediately experienced objects is the physical object itself. Epistemologically it is as though physical objects were never given, whether or not that is in fact the case.\n\nAnother potential counter-example involves vivid hallucinations: phantom elephants, for instance, might be interpreted as sense-data. A direct realist response would differentiate hallucination from genuine perception: no perception of elephants is going on, only the different and related mental process of hallucination. However, if there are visual images when we hallucinate it seems reasonable that there are visual images when we see. Similarly if dreaming involves visual and auditory images in our minds it seems reasonable to think there are visual and auditory images, or sense-data, when we are awake and perceiving things. This argument has been challenged in a number of different ways. First it has been questioned whether there must be some object present that actually has the experienced qualities, which would then seemingly have to be something like a sense-datum. Why couldn't it be that the perceiver is simply in a state of seeming to experience such an object without any object actually being present? Second, in cases of illusion and perceptual relativity there is an object present which is simply misperceived, usually in readily explainable ways, and no need to suppose that an additional object is also involved. Third, the last part of the perceptual relativity version of the argument has been challenged by questioning whether there is really no experiential difference between veridical and non-veridical perception; and by arguing that even if sense-data are experienced in non-veridical cases and even if the difference between veridical and non-veridical cases is, as claimed, experientially indiscernible, there is still no reason to think that sense-data are the immediate objects of experience in veridical cases. Fourth, do sense-data exist through time or are they momentary? Can they exist when not being perceived? Are they public or private? Can they be themselves misperceived? Do they exist in minds or are they extra-mental, even if not physical? On the basis of the intractability of these questions, it has been argued that the conclusion of the argument from illusion is unacceptable or even unintelligible, even in the absence of a clear diagnosis of exactly where and how it goes wrong.\n\nDirect realists can potentially deny the existence of any such thing as a mental image but this is difficult to maintain, since we seem able to visually imagine all sorts of things with ease. Even if perception does not involve images other mental processes like imagination certainly seem to. One view, similar to Reid's, is that we do have images of various sorts in our minds when we perceive, dream, hallucinate and imagine but when we actually perceive things, our sensations cannot be considered objects of perception or attention. The only objects of perception are external objects. Even if perception is accompanied by images, or sensations, it is wrong to say we perceive sensations. Direct realism defines perception as perception of external objects where an \"external object\" is allowed to be a photon in the eye but not an impulse in a nerve leading from the eye. Recent work in neuroscience suggests a shared ontology for perception, imagination and dreaming, with similar areas of brain being used for all of these.\n\nA problem with representationalism is that if simple data flow and information processing is assumed then something in the brain must be interpreting incoming data as a \"percept\". This something is often described as a homunculus, although the term homunculus is also used to imply an entity that creates a continual regress, and this need not be implied. This suggests that some phenomenon other than simple data flow and information processing is involved in perception. This is more of an issue now than it was for rationalist philosophers prior to Newton, such as Descartes, for whom physical processes were poorly defined. Descartes held that there is a \"homunculus\" in the form of the soul, belonging to a form of natural substance known as \"res cogitans\" that obeyed different laws from those obeyed by solid matter (\"res extensa\"). Although Descartes' duality of natural substances may have echoes in modern physics (Bose and Fermi statistics) no agreed account of 'interpretation' has been formulated. Thus representationalism remains an incomplete description of perception. Aristotle realized this and simply proposed that ideas themselves (representations) must be aware—in other words that there is no further transfer of sense impressions beyond ideas.\nA potential difficulty with representational realism is that, if we only have knowledge of representations of the world, how can we know that they resemble in any significant way the objects to which they are supposed to correspond? Any creature with a representation in its brain would need to interact with the objects that are represented to identify them with the representation. This difficulty would seem reasonably to be covered by the learning by exploration of the world that goes on throughout life. However, there may still be a concern that if the external world is only to be inferred, its 'true likeness' might be quite different from our idea of it. The representational realist would answer to this that \"true likeness\" is an intuitive concept that falls in the face of logic, since a likeness must always depend on the way in which something is considered.\n\nA semantic difficulty may arise when considering reference in representationalism. If a person says \"I see the Eiffel Tower\" at a time when they are indeed looking at the Eiffel Tower, to what does the term \"Eiffel Tower\" refer? The direct realist might say that in the representational account people do not really see the tower but rather 'see' the representation. However, this is a distortion of the meaning of the word see which the representationalist does not imply. For the representationalist the statement refers to the Eiffel Tower, which implicitly is experienced in the form of a representation. The representationalist does not imply that when a person refers to the Eiffel Tower, they are referring to their sense experience, and when another person refers to the Tower, they are referring to their sense experience.\n\nFurthermore, representative realism claims that we perceive our perceptual intermediaries-we can attend to them-just as we observe our image in a mirror. However, as we can scientifically verify, this is clearly not true of the physiological components of the perceptual process. This also brings up the problem of dualism and its relation to representative realism, concerning the incongruous marriage of the metaphysical and the physical.\n\nThe new objection to the Homunculus Argument claims that it relies on a naive view of sensation. Because the eyes respond to light rays is no reason for supposing that the visual field requires eyes to see it. Visual sensation (the argument can be extrapolated to the other senses) bears no direct resemblance to the light rays at the retina, nor to the character of what they are reflected from or pass through or what was glowing at the origin of them. The reason given is that they only bear the similarities of \"co-variation\" with what arrives at the retinas. Just as the currents in a wire going to a loudspeaker vary proportionately with the sounds that emanate from it but have no other likeness, so too does sensation vary proportionately (and not necessarily directly) with what causes it but bears no other resemblance to the input. This implies that the colour we experience is actually a cortical occurrence, and that light rays and external surfaces are not themselves coloured. The proportional variations with which cortical colour changes are there in the external world, but not colour as we experience it. Contrary to what Gilbert Ryle believed, those who argue for sensations being brain processes do not have to hold that there is a \"picture\" in the brain since this is impossible according to this theory since actual pictures in the external world are not coloured. It is plain that Ryle unthinkingly carried over what the eyes do to the nature of sensation; A. J. Ayer at the time described Ryle's position as \"very weak\". So there is no \"screen\" in front of cortical \"eyes\", no mental objects before one. As Thomas Hobbes put it: \"How do we take notice of sense?—by sense itself\". Moreland Perkins has characterized it thus: that sensing is not like kicking a ball, but rather \"kicking a kick\". Today there are still philosophers arguing for colour being a property of external surfaces, light sources, etc.\n\nA more fundamental criticism is implied in theories of this type. The differences at the sensory and perceptual levels between agents require that some means of ensuring at least a partial correlation can be achieved that allows the updatings involved in communication to take place. The process in an informative statement begins with the parties hypothetically assuming that they are referring to the \"same\" entity or \"property\", even though their selections from their sensory fields cannot match; we can call this mutually imagined projection the \"logical subject\" of the statement. The speaker then produces the logical predicate which effects the proposed updating of the \"referent\". If the statement goes through, the hearer will now have a different percept and concept of the \"referent\"—perhaps even seeing it now as two things and not one. The radical conclusion is that we are premature in conceiving of the external as already sorted into singular \"objects\" in the first place, since we only need to behave \"as if\" they are already logically singular. The diagram at the beginning of this entry would thus be thought of as a false picture of the actual case, since to draw \"an\" object as already selected from the real is only to treat the practically needful, but strictly false, hypothesis of objects-as-logically-singular as ontologically given. The proponents of this view thus argue that there is no need actually \"to believe\" in the singularity of an object since we can manage perfectly well by \"mutually imagining\" that 'it' is singular. A proponent of this theory can thus ask the direct realist feels why he or she thinks it is necessary to move to taking the imagining of singularity for real when there is no practical difference in the outcome in action. Therefore, although there are selections from our sensory fields which for the time being we treat as if they were objects, they are only provisional, open to corrections at any time, and, hence, far from being direct \"representations\" of pre-existing singularities, they retain an experimental character. Virtual constructs or no, they remain, however, selections that are causally linked to the real and can surprise us at any time—which removes any danger of solipsism in this theory. This approach dovetails with the philosophy known as social constructivism.\n\nThe character of experience of a physical object can be altered in major ways by changes in the conditions of perception or of the relevant sense-organs and the resulting neurophysiological processes, without change in the external physical object that initiates this process and that may seem to be depicted by the experience. Conversely any process that yields the same sensory/neural results will yield the same perceptual experience, no matter what the physical object that initiated the process may have been like. Furthermore, the causal process that intervenes between the external object and the perceptual experience takes time, so that the character of the experience reflects, at the most, an earlier stage of that object than the one existing at the moment of perception. As in observations of astronomical objects the external object may have ceased to exist long before the experience occurs. These facts are claimed to point to the conclusion that the direct object of experience is an entity produced at the end of this causal process, distinct from any physical object that initiates the process.\"\n\nThe above argument invites the conclusion of a perceptual dualism that raises the issue of how and whether the object can be known by experience. The adverbial theory proposes \"that this dualism is a dualism of \"objects\", with perceptual experience being a more direct experience of objects of a different sort, sense-data.\" Perceptual dualism implies:both an \"act\" of awareness (or apprehension) and an \"object\" (the sense-datum) which that act apprehends or is an awareness of. The fundamental idea of the adverbial theory, in contrast, is that there is no need for such objects and the problems that they bring with them (such as whether they are physical or mental or somehow neither). Instead, it is suggested, merely the occurrence of a mental act or mental state with its own intrinsic character is enough to account for the character of immediate experience.According to the adverbial theory, when, for example, I experience a silver elliptical shape (as when viewing a coin from an angle) I am in a certain specific state of sensing or sensory awareness or of being appeared to: I sense in a certain manner or am appeared to in a certain way, and that specific manner of sensing or of being appeared to accounts for the content of my experience: I am in a certain distinctive sort of experiential state. There need be no object or entity of any sort that is literally silver and elliptical in the material world or in the mind. I experience a silver and elliptical shape because an object or entity that literally has that color and shape is directly before my mind. But the nature of these entities and the way in which they are related to the mind are difficult to understand. The adverbial theory has the advantage of being metaphysically simpler, avoiding issues about the nature of sense-data, but we gain no real understanding of the nature of the states in question or of how exactly they account for the character of immediate experience.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36956579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36956579", "title": "Environmental theology", "text": "Environmental theology\n\nEnvironmental theology pertains to \"The study of God’s relationship to the environment\" (Jacobus, 2004).\n\nLynn White, Jr. must be associated with any scholarly writings on environmental theology because his work in the 1960s precipitated a renewed interest in the field on a massive scale. “The Historical Roots of our Ecological Crisis” (White, 1967) is the most common citation in a literature review on the subject.\n\nWritings in environmental theology normally cover two veins of thought. One sector being a belief system and the other sector being a behavior system. It is commonly found that documents closely associated with environmental theology do not directly define the term (Jacobus, 2001). A distinction should be made; theology is a belief system and ethics is a behavior system.\n\nEnvironmental theology generally must include an understanding of God's relationship to the cosmos or Creation, a cosmology. Robert J. Jacobus divides the possibilities into three basic views of God’s physical relationship with the environment. One, the Creator-God exists externally to the physical world (Timm, 1994). The second is God exists internally in the environment (McFague, 1993, Tobias, 1994). The third basic view stipulates God as an entity does not exist (Berry, 1994; Callicott, 1994; Swimme, 1994; Wei-ming, 1994). Three variations of these basic types can be identified in literature. The first is the person of God can be distinctly separate from the environment and also exist internally in the environment (White, 1994). A second variation purports that God and nature exist as separate deities (Griffin, 1994). The third variation denies God as a cognitive entity and views the environment as Creator/deity. If God is external to the environment God then the Creator-God interfaces with the environment as a distinct entity, while if God is internal to the environment, one may make no distinction between the person of God and the environment and the notion of Creator itself may become problematic. A mystical viewpoint common to several religious traditions that unites these categories is that God is continuously creating the universe, and that the universe is a direct expression of God's being, rather than an object created by God as the subject.\n\nFrom the environmental perspective the corresponding worldviews would be (1) nature is created, (2) nature is divine and (3) nature is emergent. Three environmental theologies emerge, (1) God exists eternally and the environment is God’s creation, (2) the environment is God (Nelson, 1990) and (3) the environment emerged from physical conditions (Fraley, 2000). But Robert S. Corrington goes so far as to say that God is an emergent property of the cosmos itself.\n\nThere is not a clear distinction between environmental theology and ecotheology, though the term environmental theology might indicate a theology in which environmental ethics is established prior to one's understanding of the meaning of God.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "306555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306555", "title": "Ethics in the Bible", "text": "Ethics in the Bible\n\nEthics in the Bible refers to the system(s) or theory(ies) produced by the study, interpretation, and evaluation of biblical morals, (including the moral code, standards, principles, behaviors, conscience, values, rules of conduct, or beliefs concerned with good and evil and right and wrong), that are found in the Hebrew and Christian Bibles. It comprises a narrow part of the larger fields of Jewish and Christian ethics, which are themselves parts of the larger field of philosophical ethics. Ethics in the Bible is unlike other western ethical theories in that it is seldom overtly philosophical. It presents neither a systematic nor a formal deductive ethical argument. Instead, the Bible provides patterns of moral reasoning that focus on conduct and character in what is sometimes referred to as virtue ethics. This moral reasoning is part of a broad, normative covenantal tradition where duty and virtue are inextricably tied together in a mutually reinforcing manner.\n\nThe ethics of the Bible are religious ethics. \n\nThere is extensive and wide—spread criticism of ethics in the Bible, and some have called it immoral in some of its teachings. Slavery, genocide, \nsupersessionism, the death penalty, violence, patriarchy, sexual intolerance, colonialism, and the problem of evil and a good God, are examples of criticisms of ethics in the Bible.\n\nAccording to traditional Jewish enumeration, the Hebrew canon is composed of 24 books which came into being over a span of almost a millennium. The Bible's earliest texts reflect a Late Bronze Age Near Eastern civilization, while its last text, usually thought to be Daniel, comes from a second century BCE Hellenistic world. This historical development has to be taken into consideration in any account of ethics in the Bible. Ethicist Eryl W. Davies writes that many scholars question whether the biblical account can be regarded as an accurate account of \"how it really happened.\" The Bible has an \"air of appearing to know things we are actually very unsure about, and it has tended to state as fact what was merely speculation... There is a growing recognition it reflects the ethical values and norms of the educated class in ancient Israel, and that very little can be known about the moral beliefs of the 'ordinary' Israelites.\" As a result, many scholars believe the Bible is unsuitable for \"doing philosophy.\" Philosopher Jaco Gericke quotes philosopher Robert P. Carroll saying the Bible is \"too untidy, too sprawling, and too boisterous to be tamed by neat systems of thought.\" \n\nAt the same time, ethicist John Barton says most scholars recognize the Bible is \"more than just a jumble of isolated precepts with no underlying rationale.\" The biblical narratives, laws, wisdom sayings, parables, and unique genrés of the Bible are the sources of its ethical concepts. However, Barton also says there are problematic texts and the author's intent is not always easy to decipher. Much of biblical narrative refrains from direct comment, and there are problems in turning to the narratives for ethical insight. \"First... the narratives are often far from morally edifying... Second, though Old Testament stories are about what we might call 'moral issues', it is often not easy to decide what is being commended and what deplored. Third there is a general problem about describing the moral world of biblical narrative... are we talking about the real world...or the imagined world?\" Barton concludes, the Bible's moral \"philosophy is more complicated than it might appear.\"\n\nJewish philosophers Shalom Carmy and David Schatz explain one of many difficulties doing philosophy in the Bible is that philosophers dislike contradicting themselves whereas the Bible, by contrast, \"often juxtaposes contradictory ideas, without explanation or apology...\" Gericke says using a descriptive, rather than an analytical philosophical approach, means the pluralism of the Bible need not be a problem. Descriptive philosophy is aimed purely at clarifying meaning and therefore, it has no difficulty \"simply stating the nature of the diachronic variation and synchronic variability found in the biblical texts.\" Carmy and Schatz say the Bible does philosophical activity when it \"depicts the character of God, presents an account of creation, posits a metaphysics of divine providence and divine intervention, suggests a basis for morality, discusses many features of human nature, and frequently poses the notorious conundrum of how God can allow evil.\"\n\nPhilosopher Alan Mittleman says ethics in the Bible is not like western ethical theories in that it is seldom overtly \"philosophical.\" It presents neither a systematic nor a deductive formal ethical argument, nor does it address traditional Western philosophical questions and arguments . The absence of Western approaches is not evidence there is an absence of ethics in the Bible however. Textual scholar Jaco Gericke writes, \"The tendency to deny the Hebrew Bible anything philosophical when its rhetoric does not conform to Western varieties of philosophical systems actually involves a colonialist ethnocentric hermeneutical fallacy.\" While there is no Western-style ethical system in the Bible, there are \"folk philosophical presuppositions\" in it; \"in other words, the biblical texts contain metaphysical, epistemological, and ethical assumptions about the nature of reality, existence, life, knowledge, truth, belief, good and evil, value and so on\" of the ancient folk who recorded it. Considering ethics in the Bible, therefore, means not using philosophical terms such as \"deontological,\" casuistic,\" \"apodictic,\" and theodicy,\" while still recognizing that, if a piece of literature contains ethical assumptions, it contains metaphysical and epistemological assumptions as well. It is \"impossible to understand the Bible's fundamental structures of meaning without attending to the text's basic assumptions regarding reality, knowledge and value.\" These assumptions fall into the four basic philosophical categories. \n\nFirst, Gericke says, metaphysics is found anywhere the Bible has something to say about \"the nature of existence, reality, being, substance, mereology, time and space, causality, identity and change, objecthood and relations (e.g. subject and object), essence and accident, properties and functions, necessity and possibility (modality), order, mind and matter, freewill and determinism, and so on.\" Rolf Knierim says the Bible's metaphysic is \"dynamistic ontology\" which says reality is a dynamic process. Ancient texts do not use ontological language of \"being.\" Instead, philosopher Mark Smith explains that in the Bible, a fundamental ontology is embodied in language about power where the world and its beings derive their reality (their being, their power to exist, and to act), from the power of God (Being itself). The messenger divinities, the angels, derive their power from the One God, as do human kings. In metaphysical language, the power of lesser beings participates in Power itself, identified as God. \n\nSecondly, there is epistemology in the Hebrew Bible. The Hebrew Bible contains assumptions about the nature of knowledge, belief, truth, interpretation, understanding and cognitive processes. Pluralism is the norm, so that no unified epistemology can be reconstructed, however, an \"ethnoepistemology\" can be found. Ethnoepistemology examines the \"entire gamut of human epistemological practices from ordinary folk to diviners, shamans, priests,\" and the authors themselves. Ethicist Michael V. Fox writes the primary axiom in Proverbs is that \"the exercise of the human mind is the necessary and sufficient condition of right and successful behavior in all reaches of life: practical, ethical and religious\" revealing a \"folk presupposition\" of epistemology: virtue is knowledge.\n\nThird there is ethics, and the Bible's \"meta-ethical\" assumptions: \"the meaning of good and evil, the nature of right and wrong, criteria for moral discernment, valid sources of morality, the origin and acquisition of moral beliefs, the ontological status of moral norms, moral authority, cultural pluralism, axiological and aesthetic assumptions about the nature of value and beauty. These are all implicit in the texts.\" Fox writes that ancient Hebrew wisdom literature dwells on wisdom in a manner that separates it from wisdom literature of other ancient Near Eastern cultures. \"This focus is closely bound to its ethics.\" Mittleman explains that ethics in the Bible are provided by patterns of moral reasoning that focus on conduct and character. This moral reasoning is part of a broad normative covenantal tradition where duty and virtue are inextricably tied together in a mutually reinforcing manner. Sociologist Stephen Mott says ethics in the Bible is a corporate, community based ethic. It is not simply individual. \n\nFourth there is logic. The Bible's discourse contains assumptions about what constitutes valid arguments, the nature of language and its relation to reality. The philosophy of the Bible is a religious philosophy, and that is implicit in its texts on \"the nature of reasoning in religious thought, the warranting of beliefs, the justification of religious experience, strategies in polemical arguments, the nature of rational thinking, and the logic of belief revision.\"\n\nEthicist John Barton says there are three basic models, patterns or paradigms that form the basis of all ethics in the Bible: (1) obedience to God's will; (2) natural law; and (3) the imitation of God. Barton goes on to say the first is probably the strongest model. Obedience as a basis for ethics is found in Law and in the wisdom literature and in the Prophets. Eryl Davies says it is easy to overemphasize obedience as a paradigm since there is also a strong goal—oriented character to the moral teaching in the Bible. Asking where a course of action would lead was normal for the culture portrayed in biblical texts, and even laws have \"motive clauses\" oriented toward the future prosperity of the person being asked to obey.\n\n\"Natural law\" as Barton uses it is \"a vague phrase meant to be suggestive rather than defining.\" Eryl Davies says it is a term that should be used with some reservation since this is not the highly developed \"natural law\" found in Western thought. Nevertheless, the loosely defined paradigm is suggested by the ordering of the book of Genesis, where the creation story and the natural order were made a focal point as the book was assembled and edited. It is in the Wisdom literature, the Prophets, Romans 1, and Acts 17. It can be found in the book of Amos, where nations other than Israel are held accountable for their ethical decisions (Amos 1:3—2:5).\n\nDavies says the clearest expression of the imitation of God as a basis for ethics is in Leviticus 19:2 where Yahweh instructs Moses to tell the people to be holy because Yahweh is holy. This idea is also in Leviticus 11:44; 20:7,26; 21:8. The prophets also asserted that God had moral qualities the Israelites should emulate. The Psalmists also frequently reflect on God's character forming the basis of the ethical life of those who worship Yahweh. Psalm 111, and 112 set out the attributes of God that must be reflected in the life of a 'true follower.' The ethic has limits; Barton points out that in 1 Samuel 26:19 David argues that if his own persecution is ordered by God that is one thing, but if it is the work of people, those people should be cursed.\n\nThe Bible mandates monarchy, and also supports notions of theocracy; the speech of Abijah of Judah in Chronicles 2 13:4-12 is taken as one of the purest expressions of this idea; Yahweh ordained only David and his progeny to rule in Jerusalem and only Aaron and his progeny to serve in the Temple, and any other claims to political or religious power or authority is against the will of God. The Deuteronomist redaction of the Hebrew Bible especially emphasizes these ideas about the unity of politics and religion in a political state.\n\nBiblical descriptions of divinely ordained monarchy directly underlie the understanding of Jesus as the \"son of David\" and the messiah (the annointed king) who at some point will govern the world.\n\nPolitical theorist Michael Walzer says \"the Bible is, above all, a religious book, but it is also a political book.\" There is no political theory, as such, in the Bible, however, based on \"legal codes, rules for war and peace, ideas about justice and obligation, social criticism, visions of the good society, and accounts of exile and dispossession\" the Bible does contain folk presuppositions of comparative politics. He goes on to say politics in the Bible is similar to modern \"consent theory\" which requires agreement between the governed and the authority based on full knowledge and the possibility of refusal. Politics in the Bible also models \"social contract theory\" which says a person's moral obligations to form the society in which they live are dependent on that agreement. This implies a moral respect for God and his laws which is not a result of law, but pre-exists law. Walzer asserts this is what makes it possible for someone like Amos, \"an herdsman and gatherer of sycamore fruit,\" to confront priests and kings, and remind them of their obligations. Moral law is, therefore, politically democratized in the Bible.\n\nWalzer finds political ethics expressed in the Hebrew Bible in covenant, law, and prophecy, and he says they constitute an early form of \"almost\" democratic political ethics. First, God's covenant requires everyone adhere equally to the agreement they made, as in later \"general will\" theories of democracy. \"In the biblical texts, poor people, women, and even strangers, are recognized as moral agents in their own right whatever the extent of that agency might be.\" Second, Walker finds the idea that everyone was subject to God's law -- that kings were not involved in making or interpreting the law, but were as subject to it, in principle, as every other Israelite. Third, Walzer finds in the Bible, prophets speak as the interpreters of divine law in public places to ordinary people. They came from every social strata and denounced the most powerful men in society—and everyone else too. Walzer wrote: \"Their public and uninhibited criticism is an important signifier of religious democracy.\"\n\nPolitical science scholar Amy E. Black says Jesus' command to pay taxes (Matthew 22:21), was not simply an endorsement of government, but was also a refusal to participate in the fierce political debate of his day over the Poll tax. Black quotes Old Testament scholar Gordon Wenham as saying, Jesus' response \"implied loyalty to a pagan government was not incompatible with loyalty to God.\"\n\nWarfare as a political act of nationhood, is a topic the Bible addresses ethically, both directly and indirectly, in four ways: there are verses that support pacifism, and verses that support non-resistance; 4th century theologian Augustine identified aspects of just war in the Bible, and preventive war which is sometimes called crusade has also been supported using Bible texts. Near Eastern scholar Susan Niditch says \"...To understand attitudes toward war in the Bible is thus to gain a handle on war in general...\"\n\nPacifism is not in the Hebrew Bible, but an ethic of peace can be found there. The term peace is mentioned 429 times in the Bible—and more than 2500 times in classical Jewish sources. Many of those refer to peace as a central part of God's purpose for mankind. Political activist David Cortright writes that \"shalom\" (peace in Hebrew) is a complex word with levels of meaning that embody the conditions and values necessary to prevent war: \"social justice, self-determination, economic well-being, human rights, and the use of non-violent means to resolve conflict.\" Most texts used to support pacifism are in the New Testament, such as Matthew 5:38-48 and Luke 6:27-36, but not all. Passages of peace from the Hebrew Bible, such as Micah 4:3: \"They will beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks,\" are also often cited. According to theologian Myron S. Augsberger, pacifism opposes war for any reason. The ethic is founded in separation from the world and the world's ways of doing things, obeying God first rather than the state, and belief that God's kingdom is beyond this world. Bible scholar Herman A. Hoyt says Christians are obligated to follow Christ's example, which was an example of non-resistance. This obligation is to individual believers, not corporate bodies, or \"unregenerate worldly governments.\"\n\nNear Eastern scholar Yigal Levin, along with archaeologist Amnon Shapira, write that the ethic of war in the Bible is based on the concept of self-defense. Self-defense, or defense of others, is necessary for a war to be understood as a just war. Levin and Shapira say forbidding war for the purpose of expansion (Deuteronomy 2:2-6,9,17-19), the call to talk peace before war (Deuteronomy 20:10), the expectation of moral disobedience to a corrupt leader (Genesis 18:23-33;Exodus 1:17, 2:11-14, 32:32;1 Samuel 22:17), as well as a series of verses governing treatment of prisoners (Deuteronomy 21:10-14; 2 Chronicles 28:10-15; Joshua 8:29,10:26-27), respect for the land (Deuteronomy 20:19), and general \"purity in the camp\" (Deuteronomy 20:10-15) are aspects of the principles of just war in the Bible.\n\nIn Exodus, Deuteronomy, Joshua, and both books of Kings, warfare includes narratives describing a variety of conflicts with Amalekites, Canaanites, and Moabites. God commands the Israelites to conquer the Promised Land, placing city after city \"under the ban,\" the \"herem\" of total war. This meant every man, woman and child was to be killed. This leads many contemporary scholars to characterize \"herem\" as a command to commit genocide. Michael Walzer writes that \"herem\" was the common approach to war among the nations surrounding Israel of the bronze age, and Hebrew scholar Baruch A. Levine indicates Israel imported the concept from them. Walzer points out that verses 15 to 18 of Deuteronomy 20 are very old, suggesting \"the addition of \"herem\" to an older siege law.\" He goes on to say the earliest biblical sources show there are two ethics of conquest in the Bible with laws supporting each. Beginning at Deuteronomy 20:10-14 there is a limited war/(just war) doctrine consistent with Amos and First and Second Kings. From Deuteronomy 20 on, both war doctrines are joined without one superseding the other. However, starting in Joshua 9, after the conquest of Ai, Israel's battles are described as \"self-defense\", and the priestly authors of Leviticus, and the Deuteronomists, are careful to give God moral reasons for his commandment.\n\nLegal scholar Jonathan Burnside says biblical law is not fully codified, but it is possible to discern its key ethical elements. Key elements in biblical criminal justice begin with the belief in God as the source of justice and the judge of all. Criminal justice scholar Sam S. Souryal says the Bible emphasizes that ethical knowledge and moral character are central to the administration of justice. Souryal says foremost among the biblical ethical principles that ensure criminal justice are those prohibiting \"lying and deception, racial prejudice and racial discrimination, egoism and the abuse of authority.\" In the Bible, human judges are thought capable of mediating even divine decisions if they have sufficient moral capacity and wisdom. \n\nBiblical ethicist Christopher Marshall says there are about 20 offenses that carry the death penalty under Mosaic Law. Within the historical and ethical context of covenant, it was believed the covenant community suffered ritual pollution from certain sins, therefore capital punishment protected the community from the possible consequences of such pollution, as well as punished those who had broken covenant. \"Evans explains that contemporary standards tend to view these laws of capitol punishment as cavalier toward human life,\" however, within the framework of ancient covenant, it suggests an ethic concerning the value of life was as much a communal value as an individual one. \n\nMarshall goes on to say there are features of covenant law that have been adopted and adapted to contemporary human rights law: due process, fairness in criminal procedures, and equity in the application of law. Within this ethic, judges are told not to accept bribes (Deuteronomy 16:19), were required to be impartial to native and stranger alike (Leviticus 24:22; Deuteronomy 27:19), to the needy and the powerful alike (Leviticus 19:15), and to rich and poor alike (Deuteronomy 1:16,17; Exodus 23:2-6). The right to a fair trial, and fair punishment, are also required (Deuteronomy 19:15; Exodus 21:23-25). Those most vulnerable in a patriarchal society—children, women and strangers—were singled out for special protection (Psalm 72:2,4).\n\nAlmost all Near Eastern societies of the Bronze (3000-1200 BCE) and Axial Ages (800 to 300 BCE), including Israel and Judah, were patriarchal with patriarchy established in most by 3000 BCE. There is substantial agreement among a wide variety of scholars that the Hebrew Bible is a predominantly patriarchal document from a patriarchal age. However, others assert there are also evidences of a kind of metaphysical \"gender blindness\" in the Hebrew Bible. \n\nHebrew Bible scholar Tykva Frymer-Kensky says the role of women in the Bible is generally one that is subordinate to men, however, unlike other ancient literature, the Hebrew Bible does not explain or justify cultural subordination by portraying women as deserving of less because of their naturally evil or innately inferior natures. Discussions of the nature of women, such as those found in some Ancient and Classical Greek and Roman writings which describe women as an innately inferior race separate from the race of men, are conspicuously absent from the Hebrew Bible. The Biblical depiction of early Bronze Age culture up through the Axial Age, depicts the \"essence,\" (that is the Bible's metaphysical view of being and nature), of both male and female as \"created in the image of God\" with neither inherently inferior in nature. Old Testament scholar Jerome Creach says the placement of the Genesis (1:1–2:4a) story at the beginning of the entire Bible shows it was normative for those who gave the Hebrew Bible canon its present shape.\n\nLaws concerning the loss of female virginity have no male equivalent. These and other gender differences found in the Torah suggest that, within those texts, women are subordinate to men. Adultery was defined differently for men than for women: a woman was an adulteress if she had sexual relations outside her marriage, but if a man had sexual relations outside his marriage with an unmarried woman, a concubine or a prostitute, it was not considered adultery on his part. Non-conforming sex — homosexuality, bestiality, cross dressing and masturbation — are described as being punishable. Stringent protection of the marital bond and loyalty to kin is portrayed as very strong. \n\nThe \"zonah\" of the Hebrew Bible is a woman who is not under the authority of a man; she may be a paid prostitute, but not necessarily. In the Bible, for a woman or girl who was under the protection of a man to be called a \"zonah\" was a grave insult to her and her family. The \"zonah\" is shown as lacking protection, making each \"zonah\" vulnerable and available to other men; the lack of a specific man governing her meant that she was free to act in ways that other women weren't. According to David Blumenthal, the Bible depicts the \"zonah\" as \"dangerous, fearsome and threatening by her freedom, and yet appealing and attractive at the same time.\" Her freedom is recognized by biblical law and her sexual activity is not punishable. She is the source of extra-institutional sex. Therefore she is seen as a threat to patriarchy and the family structure it supports. Over time, the term \"zonah\" came to applied to a married woman who committed adultery, and that sense of the term was used as a metaphor for people being unfaithful to Yahweh, especially in the Book of Hosea and the Book of Ezekiel; the descriptions of sexual acts and punishments of the metaphorical \"zonah\" in those books are brutal and pornographic.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible contains strict purity laws, both ritual and moral. Near Eastern scholar Eve Levavi Feinstein writes \"The concepts of pollution and sexuality seem inextricably linked,\" yet the views in the Bible vary more than is generally recognized. Pollution terminology is used for illegal sexual contact such as rape and adultery, and it is also used for legal and licit sexual intercourse, menstruation, and for some perhaps unavoidable diseases. This makes the Bible's view of the relationship between temporary ritual pollution and more serious moral pollution \"murky.\" Pollution concepts in the Hebrew Bible are connected to certain areas of experience such as sex, death, and certain kinds of illnesses and food. The Hebrew term for pollution appears 286 times and the term for purity appears 207 times. Feinstein says the Hebrew Bible never uses the term 'pure' (טָהֵר) to describe virginity, but does use it to describe a married woman who has not committed adultery (Numbers 5:28). Wanton, unrepentant sins are seen as having a contaminating effect on the sanctuary similar to environmental pollution.\n\nJesus often spoke directly to women in public. The disciples were astonished to see Jesus talking with the Samaritan woman at the well of Sychar (John 4:7-26). He spoke freely with the woman taken in adultery (John 8:10–11), with the widow of Nain (Luke 7:12–13), the woman with the bleeding disorder (Luke 8:48; cf. Matt. 9:22; Mark 5:34), and a woman who called to him from a crowd (Luke 11:27–28). Similarly, Jesus addressed a woman bent over for eighteen years (Luke 13:12) and a group of women on the route to the cross (Luke 23:27-31). Jesus spoke in a thoughtful, caring manner. Each synoptic writer records Jesus addressing the woman with the bleeding disorder tenderly as “daughter” and he refers to the bent woman as a “daughter of Abraham” (Luke 13:16). Theologian Donald G. Bloesch infers that “Jesus called the Jewish women ‘daughters of Abraham’ (Luke 13:16), thereby according them a spiritual status equal to that of men.” Jesus held women personally responsible for their own behavior: the woman at the well (John 4:16–18), the woman taken in adultery (John 8:10–11), and the sinful woman who anointed his feet (Luke 7:44–50). Jesus dealt with each as having the personal freedom and enough self-determination to deal with their own repentance and forgiveness. There are several Gospel accounts of Jesus imparting important teachings to and about women: his public admiration for a poor widow who donated two copper coins to the Temple in Jerusalem, his friendship with Mary of Bethany and Martha, the sisters of Lazarus, and the presence of Mary Magdalene, his mother, and the other women as he was crucified. New Testament scholar Ben Witherington III says \"Jesus broke with both biblical and rabbinic traditions that restricted women's roles in religious practices, and He rejected attempts to devalue the worth of a woman, or her word of witness.\"\n\nThe New Testament names many women among the followers of Jesus and in positions of leadership in the early church. New Testament scholar Linda Belleville says \"virtually every leadership role that names a man also names a woman. In fact there are more women named as leaders in the New Testament than men. Phoebe is a 'deacon' and a 'benefactor' (Romans 16:11-2). Mary, Lydia and Nympha are overseers of house churches (Acts 12:12; 16:15; Colossians 4:15). Euodia and Syntyche are among 'the overseers and deacons' at Philippi (Philippians 1:1; cf, 4:2-3). The only role lacking specific female names is that of 'elder'--but there male names are lacking as well.\"\nNew Testament scholar Craig Blomberg asserts three primary texts critical to the traditional patriarchal view of women and women's roles as being supported in the New Testament: \"\"1 Corinthians 14:34-35\", where women are commanded to be silent in the church; \"1 Timothy 2:11-15\" where women (according to the TNIV) are not permitted to teach or have authority over a man; and \"1 Corinthians 11:2-16\" where the male and female relationship is defined in terms of \"kephalē\" commonly translated \"head.\"\"\n\nClassics scholar Kyle Harper references the historian Peter Brown as showing ethics concerning sexuality and accepted sexual practices was at the heart of the early clash over Christianity's place in the world. Views on sexuality in the early church were diverse and fiercely debated within its various communities; these doctrinal debates took place within the boundaries of the ideas in Paul's letters and in the context of an often persecuted minority seeking to define itself from the world around it. In his letters, Paul often attempted to find a middle way among these disputes, which included people who saw the gospel as liberating them from all moral boundaries, and those who took very strict moral stances. Conflicts between Christianity and the culture surrounding it over sexuality, as well as within Christianity itself, were fierce. For example, in Roman culture, widows were required to remarry within a few years of their husband's death, but Christian widows were not required to remarry and could freely choose to remain single, and celibate, with the church's support. As Harper says, \"The church developed the radical notion of individual freedom centered around a libertarian paradigm of complete sexual agency.\" Many widows and single women were choosing not to marry, were staying celibate, and were encouraging other women to follow, but pagan response to this female activity was negative and sometimes violent toward Christianity as a whole. Margaret MacDonald demonstrates these dangerous circumstances were likely the catalysts for the \"shift in perspective concerning unmarried women from Paul's [early] days to the time of the Pastoral epistles\".\n"}
{"id": "4690275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4690275", "title": "Eusebius of Myndus", "text": "Eusebius of Myndus\n\nEusebius of Myndus () was a 4th-century philosopher, a distinguished Neoplatonist. He is described by Eunapius as one of the links in the \"Golden Chain\" of Neoplatonism. \n\nHe was a pupil of Aedesius of Pergamum. He devoted himself principally to logic and ventured to criticize the magical and theurgic side of the doctrine. By this he exasperated the later Emperor Julian, who preferred the mysticism of Maximus and Chrysanthius. \n\nStobaeus collected a number of ethical dicta of one Eusebius, who may perhaps be identical with the Neoplatonist.\n"}
{"id": "22289969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22289969", "title": "Everard Digby (scholar)", "text": "Everard Digby (scholar)\n\nEverard Digby (born c. 1550) was an English academic theologian, expelled as a Fellow of St John's College, Cambridge for reasons that were largely religious. He is known as the author of a 1587 book, written in Latin, that was the first work published in England on swimming; and also as a philosophical teacher, writer and controversialist. The swimming book, \"De Arte Natandi\", was a practical treatise following a trend begun by the archery book \"Toxophilus\" of Roger Ascham, of Digby's own college.\n\nAccording to Eugene D. Hill, in Digby's \"Theoria Analytica\" of 1579,\n\nBorn about 1550, he matriculated as a sizar of St John's College, Cambridge, 25 October 1567; was admitted a scholar 9 November 1570; proceeded B. A. 1570-1, M.A. 1574, and B.D. 1581; and became a Lady Margaret fellow on 12 March 1572-3, and senior fellow 10 July 1585. He was principal lecturer in 1584. Digby took part in the college performance of Thomas Legge's \"Richardus Tertius\" in 1580.\n\nBefore the end of 1587 he was deprived of his fellowship. In a letter to Chancellor of the University Lord Burghley, William Whitaker, master of St John's College (4 April 1588), explained that this step had been rendered necessary by Digby's arrears with the college steward. He added that Digby had preached voluntary poverty, a 'popish position,' at St Mary's; had attacked Calvinists as schismatics; was in the habit of blowing a horn and hallooing in the college during the daytime, and repeatedly spoke of the master to the scholars with the greatest disrespect. Burghley and John Whitgift ordered Digby's restitution; but Whitaker stood firm, and with the support of the Earl of Leicester obtained confirmation of the expulsion.\n\nDigby's best known book is a treatise on swimming, the earliest published in England. \"De Arte Natandi\" is illustrated with plates, and was translated into English by Christopher Middleton in 1595 as \"A Short Introduction for to Learne to Swimme\". This biomechanics of swimming is considered the best swimming book for over 300 years. It deals with the specific weight of objects and humans.\n\nDigby also wrote a work against Ramism and his own system, \"Theoria analytica\", dedicated to Sir Christopher Hatton, 1579. William Temple of King's College, Cambridge, wrote, under the pseudonym of Franciscus Mildapettus, an attack on Digby's criticism of Petrus Ramus, to which Digby replied in 1580. Temple replied again in 1581.\n\nAs the productions of a predecessor of Francis Bacon, Digby's two philosophical books are notable, although clumsy in expression and overlaid with scholastic subtleties. Digby tried in his \"Theoria Analytica\" to classify the sciences, and elsewhere ventures on a theory of perception based on the notion of the active correspondence of mind and matter. Otherwise Digby is a disciple of Aristotle.\n\nDigby was also author of \"Everard Digbie, his Dissuasive from taking away the Lyvings and Goods of the Church\", with \"Celsus of Verona, his Dissuasive, translated into English\", London, 1589, dedicated to Sir Christopher Hatton.\n"}
{"id": "51404088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51404088", "title": "FarmBot", "text": "FarmBot\n\nFarmBot is an open source precision agroculture CNC farming project consisting of a Cartesian coordinate robot farming machine, software and documentation including a farming data repository. The project aims to \"Create an open and accessible technology aiding everyone to grow food and to grow food for everyone.\" FarmBot is an open source project allowing hardware, software and documentation modifications and additions from users.\n\nThe FarmBot project was started in 2011 by American Rory Aronson whilst studying mechanical engineering at California Polytechnic State University. Aronson attended an elective course in organic agriculture where he learned about a tractor that used machine vision to detect and cover weeds which removed the need for herbicides or manual labour, the tractor cost over $1 million USD.\n\nIn September 2013 Aronson published a white paper outlining the goals of the project to \"Grow a community that produces free and open-source hardware plans, software, data, and documentation enabling everyone to build and operate a farming machine.\"\n\nThe project is a response to the 60% increase food production needed due to the growth in world population to between 7 - 9 billion by 2050 and the potential of precision agriculture to reduce the environmental impacts of farming by reducing water use, energy, transportation, petrochemicals and time required to grow crops.\n\nIn March 2014 Aronson began working on the project full-time funded by a grant from the Shuttleworth Foundation. Firmware developer Tim Evers and software developer Rick Carlino later joined the project as core developers and the open source community Farmbot.cc was created to support the development of the project.\n\nIn March 2014 Rory Aronson created the company Farmbot.io to provide hardware kits and software services and to serve as a funding source to maintain the open source community. In 2014 and 2015 FarmBot was entered into the Hackaday Prize where it became a finalist in 2015. Farmbot.io began preorders of the first commercially available version of FarmBot, the FarmBot Genesis, the ninth iteration of the design in July 2016.\n\nThe FarmBot Genesis is able to plant over 30 different crops including potatoes, peas, squash, artichokes and chard in an area of 2.9 meters × 1.4 meters with a maximum plant height of 0.5 meters. It can cultivate a variety of crops within same area at the same time and is able to operate indoors, outdoors and covered areas. It is estimated that the FarmBot Genesis produces 25% fewer carbon dioxide emissions than standard US food production.\n\nThe Farmbot Genesis can perform almost all processes prior to harvesting including sowing, mechanical weed control and watering. It requires electricity, an internet connection and water supply which can be provided using off grid solutions including a water barrel to collect rain and a solar panel and battery to provide electricity. The FarmBot Genesis is able to gather data to take into account factors such as age of the plant and local weather conditions from both local sensors and external data from the internet.\n\nThe FarmBot Genesis performs different tasks through automatically attaching different tools to a universal tool mount, including a seed injector, a watering nozzle and a tool to bury weeds. The machine is able to weed the planted area using the weed suppressor using a camera to identify weeds by comparing all plants in the area to the locations of the planted seeds.\n\nFarmBot Genesis is controlled through a web based interface allowing remote access from any location on most internet enabled devices. It uses an online crop database called OpenFarm to create an optimal planting plan based on the size of the adult crop. The precision of the machine makes it suitable for lab conditions.\n\nThe Farmbot Genesis is an open source hardware machine and is designed around reproduce-ability and availability of components, it can be created using common tools and processes meaning it is not reliant on a single supplier.\n\nThe machine uses linear guides in the X, Y, and Z axis including the gantry and custom flat connecting plates that can be fabricated with a number of tools including water jet cutter, plasma cutter, laser cutter, CNC mill or manually with a hacksaw and drill press. The FarmBot Genesis uses a belt and pulley system including NEMA 17 stepper motors with rotary encoders, GT2 belts and OpenBuilds v slot extrusions and wheels. Stainless steel screws, t-nuts, washers, bearings, driveshaft and leadscrew make the machine weather and corrosion-resistant allowing long term operation in outdoor environments.\n\nThe Farmbot Genesis electronics stack consists of a Raspberry Pi 3 and Arduino Mega 2560 with a RAMPS 1.4 shield and a camera to record data. The universal tool mount and other tools are 3D printed and are designed to be created with hobby level fused deposition model 3D printers e.g. a RepRap printer. It has two electrical connections and connectors for liquid or gas which are magnetically coupled.\n\nThe software for the FarmBot Genesis runs through a web interface allowing the machine to be controlled on most internet enabled devices. The web app has the ability to adjust different inputs including water, fertilizer and pesticide, seed spacing and environmental factors including soil and weather conditions based on sensor readings, location, and time of year. It is also able to build and schedule sequences by combining and altering basic operations. The software is also able to manipulate data maps, real-time logging and access an open plant data in the OpenFarm database. All software is available under the MIT license and is available on GitHub.\n\nThe documentation for FarmBot Genesis consists of hardware and software documentation, a farming database and support forums. A wiki, forum and documentation provide hardware and software documentation including assembly instructions, bill of materials, troubleshooting, documentation of past iterations and future design plans. OpenFarm is a free and open collaboratively written database of crop growing guides and other knowledge. OpenFarm began as part of FarmBot but has become its own independent project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35097397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35097397", "title": "Freemen on the land", "text": "Freemen on the land\n\nFreemen-on-the-land (also freemen-of-the-land, the freemen movement or simply freemen) are a loose group of individuals who believe that they are bound by statute laws only if they consent to those laws. They believe that they can therefore declare themselves independent of the government and the rule of law, holding that the only \"true\" law is their own interpretation of \"common law\". This belief has been described as a conspiracy theory. Freemen are active in English-speaking countries: the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nIn the Canadian court case \"Meads v. Meads\", Alberta Court of Queen's Bench Associate Chief Justice John D. Rooke used the phrase \"Organised Pseudolegal Commercial Arguments\" (OPCA) to describe the techniques and arguments used by freemen in court, describing them as frivolous and vexatious. There is no recorded instance of freeman tactics being upheld in a court of law. In refuting each of the arguments used by Meads, Rooke concluded that \"a decade of reported cases, many of which he refers to in his ruling, have failed to prove a single concept advanced by OPCA litigants.\"\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the United States classifies freemen as sovereign citizen extremists and domestic terrorists.\n\nFreemen believe that statute law is a contract, and that individuals can therefore opt out of statute law, choosing instead to live under what they call \"common\" (case) and \"natural\" laws. They believe natural laws require only that individuals do not harm others, do not damage the property of others, and do not use \"fraud or mischief\" in contracts. They say that all people have two parts to their existence: their body and their legal \"person\". The latter is represented by the individual's birth certificate; some freemen claim that it is entirely limited to the birth certificate. Under this theory, a \"strawman\" is created when a birth certificate is issued, and this \"strawman\" is the entity who is subject to statutory law. The physical self is referred to by a slightly different name, such as \"John of the family Smith\" instead of \"John Smith\".\n\nMany freemen beliefs are based on idiosyncratic interpretations of admiralty or maritime law, which the freemen claim govern the commercial world. These beliefs stem from fringe interpretations of various nautical-sounding words, such as ownership, citizenship, dock, or birth (berth) certificate. Freemen refer to the court as a \"ship\", the court's occupants as \"passengers\" and may claim that those leaving are \"men overboard\".\n\nFreemen will try to claim common law (as opposed to admiralty law) jurisdiction by asking \"Do you have a claim against me?\" This, they contend, removes their consent to be governed by admiralty law and turns the court into a common law court, so that proceedings would have to go forward according to their version of common law. This procedure has never been successfully used.\n\nFreemen will often not accept legal representation, believing that to do so would mean contracting with the state. They believe that the United Kingdom and Canada are now operating in bankruptcy and are therefore under admiralty law. They believe that since the abolition of the gold standard, UK currency is backed not by gold but by the people (or the \"legal fiction of their persons\"). They describe persons as creditors of the UK corporation. Therefore, a court is a place of business, and a summons is an invitation to discuss the matter at hand, with no powers to require attendance or compliance. They may believe that the government controls secret bank accounts in their name as part of this theory, which may be accessed to pay off debts.\n\nNone of the beliefs held by freemen have ever been supported by any judgments or verdicts in any criminal or civil court cases anywhere. An English solicitor, writing anonymously, commented:\n\nFreemen believe that since they exist in a common law jurisdiction where equality is paramount and mandatory, the people in the government and courts are not above the law, and that government and court personnel therefore must obtain the consent of the governed. Freemen believe that government employees who do not obtain consent of the governed have abandoned the rule of law. They believe this consent is routinely secured by way of people submitting applications and through acts of registration. They believe the public servants have deceived the population into abandoning their status as freemen in exchange for the status of a \"child of the province\" or \"ward of the state\", allowing those children to collect benefits such as welfare, unemployment insurance, and pension plans or old age security.\n\nFreemen believe that the government has to establish \"joinder\" to link oneself and one's legal person. If one is asked whether one is \"John Smith\" and one says that is so, one has established joinder and connected the physical and human persons. The next step is to obtain consent. Statutes are merely invitations to enter a contract, and are only legally enforceable if one enters into the contract consensually. Otherwise, statute laws are not applicable. Freemen believe that the government is constantly trying to trick people into entering into a contract with them, so they often return bills, notices, summons and so on with the message \"No contract—return to sender\".\n\nA \"notice of understanding and intent and claim of right\" is a document used by freemen to declare their sovereignty. The signed document, often notarised, is sent to the Queen and possibly other authorities such as the Prime Minister and police chiefs. It usually begins with the words \"Whereas it is my understanding\" and goes on to state their understanding of the law and their lack of consent to it.\n\nFreemen's beliefs are based on misunderstandings and wishful thinking and have not been successful in any courts anywhere.\n\n\nThe bluntly idiotic substance of Mr. Mead's argument explains the unnecessarily complicated manner in which it was presented. OPCA arguments are never sold to their customers as simple ideas, but instead are byzantine schemes which more closely resemble the plot of a dark fantasy novel than anything else. Latin maxims and powerful sounding language are often used. Documents are often ornamented with many strange markings and seals. Litigants engage in peculiar, ritual‑like in court conduct. All these features appear necessary for gurus to market OPCA schemes to their often desperate, ill‑informed, mentally disturbed, or legally abusive customers. This is crucial to understand the non-substance of any OPCA concept or strategy. The story and process of a OPCA scheme is not intended to impress or convince the Courts, \"but rather to impress the guru's customer\". \n\n\nThe whole process meant that a simple matter of driving without insurance took up hours of police time – and ultimately a stint behind bars after being convicted of contempt of court while defending himself. We hope this case acts as a warning that to obstruct the police and the courts is not a wise move.\n\n\nLawyers and notaries in British Columbia and Alberta, Canada, have been warned by their professional bodies about dealing with freemen as clients. In particular, lawyers have been advised to be careful not to stamp or notarise the pseudo-legal documents that freemen typically use, so as not to create a perception of authority for such documents.\n\nU.S. police, both speaking personally and as official guidance, have provided advice to law enforcement on dealing with the similar sovereign citizen movement. These have noted the need for caution after a case in which two policemen were murdered by a \"sovereign citizen\" during a traffic stop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12802598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12802598", "title": "Griffith Powell", "text": "Griffith Powell\n\nGriffith Powell (1561 – 15 June or 28 June 1620) was a philosopher and Principal of Jesus College, Oxford from 1613 to 1620.\n\nPowell was the third of four sons of John ap Hywel of Llansawel, Carmarthenshire, Wales. Powell matriculated at Jesus College in 1581, obtaining his BA in 1584, MA in 1589, and BCL in 1593. He was elected Fellow of the college in 1589. He effectively ran the college during the principalships of his two predecessors, Francis Bevans and John Williams. Williams deprived him of his Fellowship, but it was restored on the Chancellor's orders.\n\nPowell wrote two volumes on Aristotelian philosophy, \"Analysis analyticorum posteriorum\" (1594) and \"De sophisticis elenchis\" (1598). He was awarded his DCL in 1599. During his time as Principal he \"requested\" various \"worthy personages\" to contribute to the construction of college buildings, in particular the chapel, hall, buttery and kitchen, and raised £838 12s 2d: £259 from merchants and gentry of London, £160 from citizens of Oxford, £341 from people in Wales and the borders, and £78 from seven members of the clergy in Wales (Richard Parry, Bishop of St Asaph, giving £66 13s 2d of this sum). The hall still retains the panelling, three tables and two benches from the time of this work. His careful approach to college finances also made it possible to increase the numbers of resident fellows and scholars, and the popularity of the college with students from South Wales in particular increased during his time as Principal.\n\nHe died in 1620 and was buried in the Church of St Michael at the Northgate near the College. He left his whole estate to the college; lands in Flintshire were bought with the proceeds, and these remained in college ownership until 1966. The college chapel was completed within a year of his death.\n"}
{"id": "3732137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732137", "title": "Immanent evaluation", "text": "Immanent evaluation\n\nImmanent evaluation is a philosophical concept used by Gilles Deleuze in his essay \"Qu'est-ce qu'un dispositif ?\" (1989), where it is seen as the opposite of transcendent judgment.\n\nDeleuze writes about Michel Foucault: \"Foucault ... makes allusion to 'aesthetic' criteria, which are understood as criteria for life and replace on each occasion the claims of transcendental judgement [\"jugement transcendant\"] with an immanent evaluation [\"évaluation immanente\"]\".\n"}
{"id": "55538078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55538078", "title": "International Institute for Hermeneutics", "text": "International Institute for Hermeneutics\n\nInternational Institute for Hermeneutics (IIH) is an organization whose purpose is to foster and articulate a general hermeneutics, a task demanding an intensive interdisciplinary collaboration on a level that does not yet exist in the contemporary university. Andrzej Wiercinski is president and founder of the International Institute for Hermeneutics. The Institute publishes Analecta Hermeneutica and International Studies in Hermeneutics and Phenomenology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35945873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35945873", "title": "José Ferrater Mora", "text": "José Ferrater Mora\n\nJosé Ferrater Mora or Josep Ferrater i Mora (in Catalan) (30 October 1912 – 30 January 1991) was a Spanish philosopher. He was the author of over 35 books, including a four-volume \"Diccionario de filosofía\" (Dictionary of Philosophy, 1944) and \"Being and Death: An Outline of Integrationist Philosophy\" (1962).\n\nHe became known for his inclusion of humans and non-human animals within the same moral sphere, or continuum, arguing that the difference was one of degree, not kind. The Ferrater Mora Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics is named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5455281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5455281", "title": "Kim Si-seup", "text": "Kim Si-seup\n\nKim Si-seup (1435–1493) was a Korean scholar and author.\n\nKim Si-seup's ancestors originally came from Gangneung, Gangwon-do. His family was from the yangban class and Kim himself was born in Seoul.\n\nThroughout his life, Kim maintained a special bond with the Gangwon area and compiled a book of poetry called \"Tangyugwandongnok\" which was based on family history and experiences he had in the area. Kim was an extremely gifted child and had picked up reading ability at eight months of age. At five years of age, he was able to read and comprehend The Great Learning and the Doctrine of the Mean. Kim was a devout Buddhist and at twenty-one years of age protesting King Sejo usurping of the throne from his nephew Danjong of Joseon (eventually murdering him), he decided to skip government service and become a Buddhist monk.\n\nKim wrote the first novel in Classical chinese in Korea, titled Geumo Sinhwa (금오신화; 金鰲新話), as well as other books such as Siphyeondamyohae, Tangyugwanseorok, and Tangyuhonamnok. Geumo Sinhwa (New stories from Mount Geumo) was likely composed at Yongjang Temple during the reign of King Sejong and became an instant classic. Although Geumosinhwa was influenced by a Chinese novel titled \"Jiandeng Xinhua\" (New stories while trimming the lampwick) by Qu You, it would become nativized and later have considerable influence on Japanese novels.\n\nAnother characteristic lies in his own writing. He did not prefer only Confucianism and tried to deal with Buddhism. It appeared in several books of his that the king and subjects should respect the whole nation regardless of a person's status and origin. It was believed his thought was much advanced compared to the era in which he lived and remained one of the earliest ideas concerning democracy on the Korean peninsula.\n\nWhen he died there was a government effort to find and preserve all of his works, which number around 30 volumes. Below is an example of his poetry:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16615671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16615671", "title": "Kuri (kitchen)", "text": "Kuri (kitchen)\n\nA or is the kitchen of a Zen monastery, typically located behind the \"butsuden\" (or, Buddha Hall). Historically the \"kuri\" was a kitchen which prepared meals only for the abbot and his guests, though in modern Japan it now functions as the kitchen and administrative office for the entire monastery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1356238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356238", "title": "Laws (dialogue)", "text": "Laws (dialogue)\n\nThe Laws (Greek: Νόμοι, \"Nómoi\"; Latin: \"De Legibus\") is Plato's last and longest dialogue. The conversation depicted in the work's twelve books begins with the question of who is given the credit for establishing a civilization's laws. Its musings on the ethics of government and law have established it as a classic of political philosophy alongside Plato's more widely read \"Republic\".\n\nScholars generally agree that Plato wrote this dialogue as an older man, having failed in his effort in Syracuse on the island of Sicily to guide a tyrant's rule, instead having been thrown in prison. These events are alluded to in the \"Seventh Letter\". The text is noteworthy as Plato's only undisputed dialogue not to feature Socrates.\n\nUnlike most of Plato's dialogues, Socrates does not appear in the \"Laws\": the dialogue takes place on the island of Crete, and Socrates appears outside of Athens in Plato's writings only twice, in the \"Phaedrus\", where he is just outside the city's walls, and in the \"Republic\", where he goes down to the seaport Piraeus five miles outside of Athens. The conversation is instead led by an Athenian Stranger (in Greek, ξένος \"xenos\") and two other old men, the ordinary Spartan citizen Megillos and the Cretan politician and lawgiver Clinias from Knossos.\n\nThe Athenian Stranger, who resembles Socrates but whose name is never mentioned, joins the other two on their religious pilgrimage from Knossos to the cave of Zeus. The entire dialogue takes place during this journey, which mimics the action of Minos: said by the Cretans to have made their ancient laws, Minos walked this path every nine years in order to receive instruction from Zeus on lawgiving. It is also said to be the longest day of the year, allowing for the densely packed twelve chapters.\n\nBy the end of the third book Clinias announces that he has in fact been given the responsibility of creating the laws for a new Cretan colony, and that he would like the Stranger's assistance. The rest of the dialogue proceeds with the three old men, walking towards the cave and making laws for this new city which is called the city of the Magnetes (or Magnesia).\n\nThe question asked at the beginning is not \"What is law?\" as one would expect. That is the question of the apocryphal Platonic dialogue \"Minos\". The dialogue rather proceeds from the question of who it is that receives credit for creating laws.\n\nThe questions of the \"Laws\" are quite numerous, including:\n\nThe dialogue uses primarily the Athenian and Spartan (Lacedaemonian) law systems as background for pinpointing a choice of laws, which the speakers imagine as a more or less coherent set for the new city they are talking about.\n\nThe \"Laws\" is similar to and yet in opposition to the \"Republic\". It is similar in that both dialogues concern the making of a city in speech. The city of the \"Laws\" is described as \"second best\", not because the city of the \"Republic\" is the best, but because it is the city of gods and their children. The city of the \"Laws\" differs in its allowance of private property and private families, and in the very existence of written laws, from the city of the \"Republic,\" with its property-system and community of wives for the guardians, and absence of written law. Also, whereas the \"Republic\" is a dialogue between Socrates and several young men, the \"Laws\" is a discussion among old men, where children are not allowed and there is always a pretense of piety and ritualism.\n\nTraditionally, the \"Minos\" is thought to be the preface, and the \"Epinomis\" the epilogue, to the \"Laws\", but these are generally considered by scholars to be spurious.\nPlato was not the only Ancient Greek author writing about the law systems of his day, and making comparisons between the Athenian and the Spartan laws. Notably, the \"Constitution of the Spartans\" by Xenophon, the \"Constitution of the Athenians\", wrongly attributed to Xenophon, and the \"Constitution of the Athenians\", possibly by Aristotle or one of his students, have also survived.\n\nSome centuries later Plutarch would also devote attention to the topic of Ancient Greek law systems, e.g. in his \"Life of Lycurgus\". Lycurgus was the legendary law-giver of the Lacedaemonians. Plutarch compares Lycurgus and his Spartan laws to the law system Numa Pompilius introduced in Rome around 700 BC.\n\nBoth pseudo-Xenophon and Plutarch are stark admirers of the Spartan system, showing less reserve than Plato in expressing that admiration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22875340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22875340", "title": "Lazarus Geiger", "text": "Lazarus Geiger\n\nLazarus Geiger (21 May 1829 – 29 August 1870) was a German Jewish philosopher and philologist.\n\nHe was born at Frankfurt-on-Main, was destined to commerce, but soon gave himself up to scholarship and studied at Marburg, Bonn and Heidelberg. From 1861 till his sudden death in 1870 he was professor in the Jewish high school at Frankfurt. His chief aim was to prove that the evolution of human reason is closely bound up with that of language. He further maintained that the origin of the Indo-Germanic language is to be sought not in Asia but in central (Germany). He was a convinced opponent of rationalism in religion.\n\nLazarus Geiger's chief work was \"Ursprung und Entwickelung der menschlichen Sprache und Vernunft\" (vol. i., Stuttgart, 1868), the principal results of which appeared in a more popular form as \"Der Ursprung der Sprache\" (Stuttgart, 1869 and 1878). The second volume of the former was published in an incomplete form (1872, 2nd ed. 1899) after his death by his brother Alfred Geiger.\n\nAlfred Geiger also published a number of Lazarus Geiger's scattered papers as \"Zur Entwickelung der Menschheit\" (1871, and ed. 1878; Eng. trans. D. Asher, \"Hist. of the Development of the Human Race\", London, 1880).\n\nAttribition\n\n"}
{"id": "17547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17547", "title": "Love", "text": "Love\n\nLove encompasses a variety of strong and positive emotional and mental states, ranging from the most sublime virtue or good habit, the deepest interpersonal affection and to the simplest pleasure. An example of this range of meanings is that the love of a mother differs from the love of a spouse, which differs from the love of food. Most commonly, love refers to a feeling of strong attraction and emotional attachment. Love can also be a virtue representing human kindness, compassion, and affection, as \"the unselfish loyal and benevolent concern for the good of another\". It may also describe compassionate and affectionate actions towards other humans, one's self or animals.\n\nLove in its various forms acts as a major facilitator of interpersonal relationships and, owing to its central psychological importance, is one of the most common themes in the creative arts. Love has been postulated to be a function to keep human beings together against menaces and to facilitate the continuation of the species.\n\nAncient Greek philosophers identified five forms of love: essentially, familial love (in Greek, '), friendly love ('), romantic love (), guest love () and divine love (). Modern authors have distinguished further varieties of love: unrequited love, infatuated love, self-love, and courtly love. Asian cultures have also distinguished ', ', ', ', ', ', and other variants or symbioses of these states. Love has additional religious or spiritual meaning. This diversity of uses and meanings combined with the complexity of the feelings involved makes love unusually difficult to consistently define, compared to other emotional states.\n\nThe word \"love\" can have a variety of related but distinct meanings in different contexts. Many other languages use multiple words to express some of the different concepts that in English are denoted as \"love\"; one example is the plurality of Greek words for \"love\" which includes \"agape\" and \"eros\". Cultural differences in conceptualizing love thus doubly impede the establishment of a universal definition.\n\nAlthough the nature or essence of love is a subject of frequent debate, different aspects of the word can be clarified by determining what \"isn't\" love (antonyms of \"love\"). Love as a general expression of positive sentiment (a stronger form of \"like\") is commonly contrasted with hate (or neutral apathy). As a less sexual and more emotionally intimate form of romantic attachment, love is commonly contrasted with lust. As an interpersonal relationship with romantic overtones, love is sometimes contrasted with friendship, although the word \"love\" is often applied to close friendships or platonic love. (Further possible ambiguities come with usages \"girlfriend\", \"boyfriend\", \"just good friends\").\n\nThe complex and abstract nature of love often reduces discourse of love to a thought-terminating cliché. Several common proverbs regard love, from Virgil's \"Love conquers all\" to The Beatles' \"All You Need Is Love\". St. Thomas Aquinas, following Aristotle, defines love as \"to will the good of another.\" Bertrand Russell describes love as a condition of \"absolute value,\" as opposed to relative value. Philosopher Gottfried Leibniz said that love is \"to be delighted by the happiness of another.\" Meher Baba stated that in love there is a \"feeling of unity\" and an \"active appreciation of the intrinsic worth of the object of love.\" Biologist Jeremy Griffith defines love as \"unconditional selflessness\".\n\nPeople can be said to love an object, principle, or goal to which they are deeply committed and greatly value. For example, compassionate outreach and volunteer workers' \"love\" of their cause may sometimes be born not of interpersonal love but impersonal love, altruism, and strong spiritual or political convictions. People can also \"love\" material objects, animals, or activities if they invest themselves in bonding or otherwise identifying with those things. If sexual passion is also involved, then this feeling is called paraphilia. A common principle that people say they love is life itself.\n\nInterpersonal love refers to love between human beings. It is a much more potent sentiment than a simple \"liking\" for a person. Unrequited love refers to those feelings of love that are not reciprocated. Interpersonal love is most closely associated with interpersonal relationships. Such love might exist between family members, friends, and couples. There are also a number of psychological disorders related to love, such as erotomania.\n\nThroughout history, philosophy and religion have done the most speculation on the phenomenon of love. In the 20th century, the science of psychology has written a great deal on the subject. In recent years, the sciences of psychology, anthropology, neuroscience, and biology have added to the understanding the concept of love.\n\nBiological models of sex tend to view love as a mammalian drive, much like hunger or thirst. Helen Fisher, an anthropologist and human behavior researcher, divides the experience of love into three partly overlapping stages: lust, attraction, and attachment. Lust is the feeling of sexual desire; romantic attraction determines what partners mates find attractive and pursue, conserving time and energy by choosing; and attachment involves sharing a home, parental duties, mutual defense, and in humans involves feelings of safety and security. Three distinct neural circuitries, including neurotransmitters, and three behavioral patterns, are associated with these three romantic styles.\n\nLust is the initial passionate sexual desire that promotes mating, and involves the increased release of chemicals such as testosterone and estrogen. These effects rarely last more than a few weeks or months. Attraction is the more individualized and romantic desire for a specific candidate for mating, which develops out of lust as commitment to an individual mate forms. Recent studies in neuroscience have indicated that as people fall in love, the brain consistently releases a certain set of chemicals, including the neurotransmitter hormones, dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin, the same compounds released by amphetamine, stimulating the brain's pleasure center and leading to side effects such as increased heart rate, loss of appetite and sleep, and an intense feeling of excitement. Research has indicated that this stage generally lasts from one and a half to three years.\n\nSince the lust and attraction stages are both considered temporary, a third stage is needed to account for long-term relationships. Attachment is the bonding that promotes relationships lasting for many years and even decades. Attachment is generally based on commitments such as marriage and children, or on mutual friendship based on things like shared interests. It has been linked to higher levels of the chemicals oxytocin and vasopressin to a greater degree than short-term relationships have. Enzo Emanuele and coworkers reported the protein molecule known as the nerve growth factor (NGF) has high levels when people first fall in love, but these return to previous levels after one year.\n\nPsychology depicts love as a cognitive and social phenomenon. Psychologist Robert Sternberg formulated a triangular theory of love and argued that love has three different components: intimacy, commitment, and passion. Intimacy is a form in which two people share confidences and various details of their personal lives, and is usually shown in friendships and romantic or platonic love affairs. Commitment, on the other hand, is the expectation that the relationship is permanent. The last form of love is sexual attraction and passion. Passionate love is shown in infatuation as well as romantic love. All forms of love are viewed as varying combinations of these three components. Non-love does not include any of these components. Liking only includes intimacy. Infatuated love only includes passion. Empty love only includes commitment. Romantic love includes both intimacy and passion. Companionate love includes intimacy and commitment. Fatuous love includes passion and commitment. Lastly, consummate love includes all three components. American psychologist Zick Rubin sought to define \"love\" by psychometrics in the 1970s. His work states that three factors constitute love: attachment, caring, and intimacy.\n\nFollowing developments in electrical theories such as Coulomb's law, which showed that positive and negative charges attract, analogs in human life were developed, such as \"opposites attract\". Over the last century, research on the nature of human mating has generally found this not to be true when it comes to character and personality—people tend to like people similar to themselves. However, in a few unusual and specific domains, such as immune systems, it seems that humans prefer others who are unlike themselves (e.g., with an orthogonal immune system), since this will lead to a baby that has the best of both worlds. In recent years, various human bonding theories have been developed, described in terms of attachments, ties, bonds, and affinities.\nSome Western authorities disaggregate into two main components, the altruistic and the narcissistic. This view is represented in the works of Scott Peck, whose work in the field of applied psychology explored the definitions of love and evil. Peck maintains that love is a combination of the \"concern for the spiritual growth of another,\" and simple narcissism. In combination, love is an \"activity\", not simply a feeling.\nPsychologist Erich Fromm maintained in his book \"The Art of Loving\" that love is not merely a feeling but is also actions, and that in fact, the \"feeling\" of love is superficial in comparison to one's commitment to love via a series of loving actions over time. In this sense, Fromm held that love is ultimately not a feeling at all, but rather is a commitment to, and adherence to, loving actions towards another, oneself, or many others, over a sustained duration. Fromm also described love as a conscious choice that in its early stages might originate as an involuntary feeling, but which then later no longer depends on those feelings, but rather depends only on conscious commitment.\n\nEvolutionary psychology has attempted to provide various reasons for love as a survival tool. Humans are dependent on parental help for a large portion of their lifespans compared to other mammals. Love has therefore been seen as a mechanism to promote parental support of children for this extended time period. Furthermore, researchers as early as Charles Darwin himself identified unique features of human love compared to other mammals and credit love as a major factor for creating social support systems that enabled the development and expansion of the human species. Another factor may be that sexually transmitted diseases can cause, among other effects, permanently reduced fertility, injury to the fetus, and increase complications during childbirth. This would favor monogamous relationships over polygamy.\n\nBiological models of love tend to see it as a mammalian drive, similar to hunger or thirst. Psychology sees love as more of a social and cultural phenomenon. Certainly love is influenced by hormones (such as oxytocin), neurotrophins (such as NGF), and pheromones, and how people think and behave in love is influenced by their conceptions of love. The conventional view in biology is that there are two major drives in love: sexual attraction and attachment. Attachment between adults is presumed to work on the same principles that lead an infant to become attached to its mother. The traditional psychological view sees love as being a combination of companionate love and passionate love. Passionate love is intense longing, and is often accompanied by physiological arousal (shortness of breath, rapid heart rate); companionate love is affection and a feeling of intimacy not accompanied by physiological arousal.\n\nGreek distinguishes several different senses in which the word \"love\" is used. Ancient Greeks identified four forms of love: kinship or familiarity (in Greek, \"storge\"), friendship and/or platonic desire (\"philia\"), sexual and/or romantic desire (\"eros\"), and self-emptying or divine love (\"agape\"). Modern authors have distinguished further varieties of romantic love. However, with Greek (as with many other languages), it has been historically difficult to separate the meanings of these words totally. At the same time, the Ancient Greek text of the Bible has examples of the verb \"agapo\" having the same meaning as \"phileo\".\n\n\"Agape\" ( \"agápē\") means \"love\" in modern-day Greek. The term \"s'agapo\" means \"I love you\" in Greek. The word \"agapo\" is the verb \"I love\". It generally refers to a \"pure,\" ideal type of love, rather than the physical attraction suggested by \"eros\". However, there are some examples of \"agape\" used to mean the same as \"eros\". It has also been translated as \"love of the soul.\"\n\n\"Eros\" ( \"érōs\") (from the Greek deity Eros) is passionate love, with sensual desire and longing. The Greek word \"erota\" means \"in love\". Plato refined his own definition. Although eros is initially felt for a person, with contemplation it becomes an appreciation of the beauty within that person, or even becomes appreciation of beauty itself. Eros helps the soul recall knowledge of beauty and contributes to an understanding of spiritual truth. Lovers and philosophers are all inspired to seek truth by eros. Some translations list it as \"love of the body\".\n\n\"Philia\" ( \"philía\"), a dispassionate virtuous love, was a concept addressed and developed by Aristotle in his Nicomachean Ethics Book VIII. It includes loyalty to friends, family, and community, and requires virtue, equality, and familiarity. Philia is motivated by practical reasons; one or both of the parties benefit from the relationship. It can also mean \"love of the mind.\"\n\n\"Storge\" ( \"storgē\") is natural affection, like that felt by parents for offspring.\n\n\"Xenia\" (ξενία \"xenía\"), hospitality, was an extremely important practice in ancient Greece. It was an almost ritualized friendship formed between a host and his guest, who could previously have been strangers. The host fed and provided quarters for the guest, who was expected to repay only with gratitude. The importance of this can be seen throughout Greek mythology—in particular, Homer's \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\".\n\nThe Latin language has several different verbs corresponding to the English word \"love.\" \"amō\" is the basic verb meaning \"I love\", with the infinitive \"amare\" (“to love”) as it still is in Italian today. The Romans used it both in an affectionate sense as well as in a romantic or sexual sense. From this verb come \"amans\"—a lover, amator, \"professional lover,\" often with the accessory notion of lechery—and \"amica\", \"girlfriend\" in the English sense, often being applied euphemistically to a prostitute. The corresponding noun is \"amor\" (the significance of this term for the Romans is well illustrated in the fact, that the name of the City, Rome—in Latin: \"Roma\"—can be viewed as an anagram for \"amor\", which was used as the secret name of the City in wide circles in ancient times), which is also used in the plural form to indicate love affairs or sexual adventures. This same root also produces \"amicus\"—\"friend\"—and \"amicitia\", \"friendship\" (often based to mutual advantage, and corresponding sometimes more closely to \"indebtedness\" or \"influence\"). Cicero wrote a treatise called \"On Friendship\" (\"de Amicitia\"), which discusses the notion at some length. Ovid wrote a guide to dating called \"Ars Amatoria\" (\"The Art of Love\"), which addresses, in depth, everything from extramarital affairs to overprotective parents.\n\nLatin sometimes uses \"amāre\" where English would simply say \"to like\". This notion, however, is much more generally expressed in Latin by the terms \"placere\" or \"delectāre\", which are used more colloquially, the latter used frequently in the love poetry of Catullus. \"Diligere\" often has the notion \"to be affectionate for,\" \"to esteem,\" and rarely if ever is used for romantic love. This word would be appropriate to describe the friendship of two men. The corresponding noun \"diligentia\", however, has the meaning of \"diligence\" or \"carefulness,\" and has little semantic overlap with the verb. \"Observare\" is a synonym for \"diligere\"; despite the cognate with English, this verb and its corresponding noun, \"observantia\", often denote \"esteem\" or \"affection.\" \"Caritas\" is used in Latin translations of the Christian Bible to mean \"charitable love\"; this meaning, however, is not found in Classical pagan Roman literature. As it arises from a conflation with a Greek word, there is no corresponding verb.\n\nTwo philosophical underpinnings of love exist in the Chinese tradition, one from Confucianism which emphasized actions and duty while the other came from Mohism which championed a universal love. A core concept to Confucianism is (\"Ren\", \"benevolent love\"), which focuses on duty, action and attitude in a relationship rather than love itself. In Confucianism, one displays benevolent love by performing actions such as filial piety from children, kindness from parent, loyalty to the king and so forth.\n\nThe concept of (Mandarin: \"ài\") was developed by the Chinese philosopher Mozi in the 4th century BC in reaction to Confucianism's benevolent love. Mozi tried to replace what he considered to be the long-entrenched Chinese over-attachment to family and clan structures with the concept of \"universal love\" (, \"jiān'ài\"). In this, he argued directly against Confucians who believed that it was natural and correct for people to care about different people in different degrees. Mozi, by contrast, believed people in principle should care for all people equally. Mohism stressed that rather than adopting different attitudes towards different people, love should be unconditional and offered to everyone without regard to reciprocation, not just to friends, family and other Confucian relations. Later in Chinese Buddhism, the term \"Ai\" () was adopted to refer to a passionate caring love and was considered a fundamental desire. In Buddhism, \"Ai\" was seen as capable of being either selfish or selfless, the latter being a key element towards enlightenment.\n\nIn Mandarin Chinese, (\"ài\") is often used as the equivalent of the Western concept of love. (\"ài\") is used as both a verb (e.g. , \"Wǒ ài nǐ\" , or \"I love you\") and a noun (such as \"àiqíng\", or \"romantic love\"). However, due to the influence of Confucian (\"rén\"), the phrase (\"Wǒ ài nǐ\", I love you) carries with it a very specific sense of responsibility, commitment and loyalty. Instead of frequently saying \"I love you\" as in some Western societies, the Chinese are more likely to express feelings of affection in a more casual way. Consequently, \"I like you\" (, \"Wǒ xǐhuan nǐ\") is a more common way of expressing affection in Chinese; it is more playful and less serious. This is also true in Japanese (\"suki da\", ).\n\nThe Japanese language uses three words to convey the English equivalent of \"love\". Because \"love\" covers a wide range of emotions and behavioral phenomena, there are nuances distinguishing the three terms. The term , which is often associated with maternal love or selfless love, originally referred to beauty and was often used in religious context. Following the Meiji Restoration 1868, the term became associated with \"love\" in order to translate Western literature. Prior to Western influence, the term generally represented romantic love, and was often the subject of the popular Man'yōshū Japanese poetry collection. \"Koi\" describes a longing for a member of the opposite sex and is typical interpreted as selfish and wanting. The term's origins come from the concept of lonely solitude as a result of separation from a loved one. Though modern usage of \"koi\" focuses on sexual love and infatuation, the Manyō used the term to cover a wider range of situations, including tenderness, benevolence, and material desire. The third term, , is a more modern construction that combines the kanji characters for both \"ai\" and \"koi\", though its usage more closely resembles that of \"koi\" in the form of romantic love.\n\nKama in Indian literature means “desire, wish or longing”. In contemporary literature, kama refers usually to sexual desire. However, the term also refers to any sensory enjoyment, emotional attraction and aesthetic pleasure such as from arts, dance, music, painting, sculpture and nature.\n\nThe concept kama is found in some of the earliest known verses in Vedas. For example, Book 10 of Rig Veda describes the creation of the universe from nothing by the great heat. There in hymn 129, it states:\nRumi, Hafiz and Sa'di are icons of the passion and love that the Persian culture and language present. The Persian word for love is \"Ishq\", which is derived from Arabic language, however it is considered by most to be too stalwart a term for interpersonal love and is more commonly substituted for \"doost dashtan\" (\"liking\"). In the Persian culture, everything is encompassed by love and all is for love, starting from loving friends and family, husbands and wives, and eventually reaching the divine love that is the ultimate goal in life.\n\nThe Christian understanding is that love comes from God. The love of man and woman—\"eros\" in Greek—and the unselfish love of others (\"agape\"), are often contrasted as \"descending\" and \"ascending\" love, respectively, but are ultimately the same thing.\n\nThere are several Greek words for \"love\" that are regularly referred to in Christian circles.\n\nChristians believe that to \"Love God with all your heart, mind, and strength\" and \"Love your neighbor as yourself\" are the two most important things in life (the greatest commandment of the Jewish Torah, according to Jesus; cf. Gospel of Mark chapter 12, verses 28–34). Saint Augustine summarized this when he wrote \"Love God, and do as thou wilt.\"\n\nThe Apostle Paul glorified love as the most important virtue of all. Describing love in the famous poetic interpretation in 1 Corinthians, he wrote, \"Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, and always perseveres.\" (1 Cor. 13:4–7, NIV)\n\nThe Apostle John wrote, \"For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him.\" (John 3:16–17, NIV) John also wrote, \"Dear friends, let us love one another for love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love.\" (1 John 4:7–8, NIV)\n\nSaint Augustine says that one must be able to decipher the difference between love and lust. Lust, according to Saint Augustine, is an overindulgence, but to love and be loved is what he has sought for his entire life. He even says, “I was in love with love.” Finally, he does fall in love and is loved back, by God. Saint Augustine says the only one who can love you truly and fully is God, because love with a human only allows for flaws such as \"jealousy, suspicion, fear, anger, and contention.\" According to Saint Augustine, to love God is \"to attain the peace which is yours.\" (Saint Augustine's \"Confessions\")\n\nAugustine regards the duplex commandment of love in Matthew 22 as the heart of Christian faith and the interpretation of the Bible. After the review of Christian doctrine, Augustine treats the problem of love in terms of use and enjoyment until the end of Book I of \"De Doctrina Christiana\" (1.22.21-1.40.44;).\n\nChristian theologians see God as the source of love, which is mirrored in humans and their own loving relationships. Influential Christian theologian C.S. Lewis wrote a book called \"The Four Loves\". Benedict XVI named his first encyclical \"God is love\". He said that a human being, created in the image of God, who is love, is able to practice love; to give himself to God and others (agape) and by receiving and experiencing God's love in contemplation (eros). This life of love, according to him, is the life of the saints such as Teresa of Calcutta and the Blessed Virgin Mary and is the direction Christians take when they believe that God loves them.\n\nPope Francis taught that \"True love is both loving and letting oneself be loved..what is important in love is not our loving, but allowing ourselves to be loved by God.\" And so, in the analysis of a Catholic theologian, for Pope Francis, \"the key to love...is not our activity. It is the activity of the greatest, and the source, of all the powers in the universe: God’s.\"\n\nIn Christianity the practical definition of love is summarised by St. Thomas Aquinas, who defined love as \"to will the good of another,\" or to desire for another to succeed. This is an explanation of the Christian need to love others, including their enemies. As Thomas Aquinas explains, Christian love is motivated by the need to see others succeed in life, to be good people.\n\nRegarding love for enemies, Jesus is quoted in the Gospel of Matthew chapter five:\n\n\"You have heard that it was said, ‘Love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, that you may be children of your Father in heaven. He causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. If you love those who love you, what reward will you get? Are not even the tax collectors doing that? And if you greet only your own people, what are you doing more than others? Do not even pagans do that? Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect.\"\n- Matthew 5: 43-48\"\n\nTertullian wrote regarding love for enemies: \"Our individual, extraordinary, and perfect goodness consists in loving our enemies. To love one's friends is common practice, to love one's enemies only among Christians.\"\n\nIn Hebrew, (\"ahava\") is the most commonly used term for both interpersonal love and love between God and God's creations. Chesed, often translated as loving-kindness, is used to describe many forms of love between human beings.\n\nThe commandment to love other people is given in the Torah, which states, \"Love your neighbor like yourself\" (Leviticus 19:18). The Torah's commandment to love God \"with all your heart, with all your soul and with all your might\" (Deuteronomy 6:5) is taken by the Mishnah (a central text of the Jewish oral law) to refer to good deeds, willingness to sacrifice one's life rather than commit certain serious transgressions, willingness to sacrifice all of one's possessions, and being grateful to the Lord despite adversity (tractate Berachoth 9:5). Rabbinic literature differs as to how this love can be developed, e.g., by contemplating divine deeds or witnessing the marvels of nature. As for love between marital partners, this is deemed an essential ingredient to life: \"See life with the wife you love\" (Ecclesiastes 9:9). The biblical book Song of Solomon is considered a romantically phrased metaphor of love between God and his people, but in its plain reading, reads like a love song. The 20th-century Rabbi Eliyahu Eliezer Dessler is frequently quoted as defining love from the Jewish point of view as \"giving without expecting to take\" (from his \"Michtav me-Eliyahu\", Vol. 1).\n\nLove encompasses the Islamic view of life as universal brotherhood that applies to all who hold faith. Amongst the 99 names of God (Allah), there is the name \"Al-Wadud\", or \"the Loving One,\" which is found in Surah as well as Surah . God is also referenced at the beginning of every chapter in the Qur'an as \"Ar-Rahman\" and \"Ar-Rahim\", or the \"Most Compassionate\" and the \"Most Merciful\", indicating that nobody is more loving, compassionate and benevolent than God. The Qur'an refers to God as being \"full of loving kindness.\"\n\nThe Qur'an exhorts Muslim believers to treat all people, those who have not persecuted them, with \"birr\" or \"deep kindness\" as stated in Surah . \"Birr\" is also used by the Qur'an in describing the love and kindness that children must show to their parents.\n\n\"Ishq\", or divine love, is the emphasis of Sufism in the Islamic tradition. Practitioners of Sufism believe that love is a projection of the essence of God to the universe. God desires to recognize beauty, and as if one looks at a mirror to see oneself, God \"looks\" at himself within the dynamics of nature. Since everything is a reflection of God, the school of Sufism practices to see the beauty inside the apparently ugly. Sufism is often referred to as the religion of love. God in Sufism is referred to in three main terms, which are the Lover, Loved, and Beloved, with the last of these terms being often seen in Sufi poetry. A common viewpoint of Sufism is that through love, humankind can get back to its inherent purity and grace. The saints of Sufism are infamous for being \"drunk\" due to their love of God; hence, the constant reference to wine in Sufi poetry and music.\n\nIn his Paris Talks, `Abdu'l-Bahá described four types of love: the love that flows from God to human beings; the love that flows from human beings to God; the love of God towards the Self or Identity of God; and the love of human beings for human beings.\n\nIn Buddhism, \"Kāma\" is sensuous, sexual love. It is an obstacle on the path to enlightenment, since it is selfish. \"Karuṇā\" is compassion and mercy, which reduces the suffering of others. It is complementary to wisdom and is necessary for enlightenment. \"Adveṣa\" and \"mettā\" are benevolent love. This love is unconditional and requires considerable self-acceptance. This is quite different from ordinary love, which is usually about attachment and sex and which rarely occurs without self-interest. Instead, in Buddhism it refers to detachment and unselfish interest in others' welfare.\n\nThe Bodhisattva ideal in Mahayana Buddhism involves the complete renunciation of oneself in order to take on the burden of a suffering world. The strongest motivation one has in order to take the path of the Bodhisattva is the idea of salvation within unselfish, altruistic love for all sentient beings.\n\nIn Hinduism, \"kāma\" is pleasurable, sexual love, personified by the god Kamadeva. For many Hindu schools, it is the third end (\"Kama\") in life. Kamadeva is often pictured holding a bow of sugar cane and an arrow of flowers; he may ride upon a great parrot. He is usually accompanied by his consort Rati and his companion Vasanta, lord of the spring season. Stone images of Kamadeva and Rati can be seen on the door of the Chennakeshava temple at Belur, in Karnataka, India. \"Maara\" is another name for \"kāma\".\n\nIn contrast to \"kāma\", \"prema\"or \"prem\"refers to elevated love. \"Karuna\" is compassion and mercy, which impels one to help reduce the suffering of others. \"Bhakti\" is a Sanskrit term, meaning \"loving devotion to the supreme God.\" A person who practices \"bhakti\" is called a \"bhakta\". Hindu writers, theologians, and philosophers have distinguished nine forms of \"bhakti\", which can be found in the \"Bhagavata Purana\" and works by Tulsidas. The philosophical work \"Narada Bhakti Sutras\", written by an unknown author (presumed to be Narada), distinguishes eleven forms of love.\n\nIn certain Vaishnava sects within Hinduism, attaining unadulterated, unconditional and incessant love for Godhead is considered the foremost goal of life. Gaudiya Vaishnavas who worship Krishna as the Supreme Personality of Godhead and the cause of all causes consider Love for Godhead (Prema) to act in two ways: sambhoga and vipralambha (union and separation)—two opposites .\n\nIn the condition of separation, there is an acute yearning for being with the beloved and in the condition of union there is supreme happiness and nectarean. Gaudiya Vaishnavas consider that Krishna-prema (Love for Godhead) is not fire but that it still burns away one's material desires. They consider that Kṛṣṇa-prema is not a weapon, but it still pierces the heart. It is not water, but it washes away everything—one's pride, religious rules, and one's shyness. Krishna-prema is considered to make one drown in the ocean of transcendental ecstasy and pleasure. The love of Radha, a cowherd girl, for Krishna is often cited as the supreme example of love for Godhead by Gaudiya Vaishnavas. Radha is considered to be the internal potency of Krishna, and is the supreme lover of Godhead. Her example of love is considered to be beyond the understanding of material realm as it surpasses any form of selfish love or lust that is visible in the material world. The reciprocal love between Radha (the supreme lover) and Krishna (God as the Supremely Loved) is the subject of many poetic compositions in India such as the \"Gita Govinda\" and \"Hari Bhakti Shuddhodhaya.\"\n\nIn the Bhakti tradition within Hinduism, it is believed that execution of devotional service to God leads to the development of Love for God \"(taiche bhakti-phale krsne prema upajaya)\", and as love for God increases in the heart, the more one becomes free from material contamination \"(krishna-prema asvada haile, bhava nasa paya)\". Being perfectly in love with God or Krishna makes one perfectly free from material contamination. and this is the ultimate way of salvation or liberation. In this tradition, salvation or liberation is considered inferior to love, and just an incidental by-product. Being absorbed in Love for God is considered to be the perfection of life.\n\nThe term \"free love\" has been used to describe a social movement that rejects marriage, which is seen as a form of social bondage. The Free Love movement's initial goal was to separate the state from sexual matters such as marriage, birth control, and adultery. It claimed that such issues were the concern of the people involved, and no one else.\n\nMany people in the early 19th century believed that marriage was an important aspect of life to \"fulfill earthly human happiness.\" Middle-class Americans wanted the home to be a place of stability in an uncertain world. This mentality created a vision of strongly defined gender roles, which provoked the advancement of the free love movement as a contrast.\n\nThe term \"sex radical\" has been used interchangeably with the term \"free lover\". By whatever name, advocates had two strong beliefs: opposition to the idea of forceful sexual activity in a relationship and advocacy for a woman to use her body in any way that she pleases. These are also beliefs of Feminism.\n\nThe philosophy of love is a field of social philosophy and ethics that attempts to explain the nature of love. The philosophical investigation of love includes the tasks of distinguishing between the various kinds of personal love, asking if and how love is or can be justified, asking what the value of love is, and what impact love has on the autonomy of both the lover and the beloved.\n\nMany different theories attempt to explain the nature and function of love. Explaining love to a hypothetical person who had not himself or herself experienced love or being loved would be very difficult because to such a person love would appear to be quite strange if not outright irrational behavior. Among the prevailing types of theories that attempt to account for the existence of love are: psychological theories, the vast majority of which consider love to be very healthy behavior; evolutionary theories which hold that love is part of the process of natural selection; spiritual theories which may, for instance consider love to be a gift from a god; and theories that consider love to be an unexplainable mystery, very much like a mystical experience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41428601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41428601", "title": "Léger Marie Deschamps", "text": "Léger Marie Deschamps\n\nLéger Marie Deschamps (10 January 1716 – 19 April 1774), Benedictine monk, known under his Benedictine name of Dom Deschamps, was a French philosopher and utopian socialist, who taught a form of modified Spinozism. During his lifetime he published very little, but corresponded with most of the leaders of the French Enlightenment. Rediscovered in 1862, he was hailed as a precursor of Hegel. His metaphysical system anticipates Hegel by asserting that truth includes contradictory elements, and he had much to say about how the concept Being collapses into that of Nothing. There was a further revival of interest in his work after 1974, and his collected works were finally published in 1993.\n\nLe Vrai Système ou le Mot de l'énigme métaphysique et morale, facsimile published by the Société des textes français modernes, by Jean Thomas and Franco Venturi, Paris, 1939\n"}
{"id": "32560062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32560062", "title": "Magic Lantern (firmware)", "text": "Magic Lantern (firmware)\n\nMagic Lantern is a firmware add-on for various Canon digital single-lens reflex (DSLR) cameras and the EOS M. It adds features for DSLR filmmaking and still photography, and is free and open-source.\n\nMagic Lantern was originally written for the Canon EOS 5D Mark II by Trammell Hudson in 2009 after he reverse engineered its firmware. He ported it to the Canon EOS 550D in July 2010. There are now versions for many other Canon DSLRs and the current principal developer is known as A1ex.\n\nBecause installing Magic Lantern does not replace the stock Canon firmware or modify the ROM but rather runs alongside it, it is both easy to remove and carries little risk. The camera checks a \"boot flag\" in its re-writable memory, and if set, reads from a memory card to get the additional firmware routines. Each time the camera is started, there is an option to disable Magic Lantern.\n\nMagic Lantern firmware was originally written for the Canon EOS 5D Mark II by Trammell Hudson in 2009 after he reverse engineered its firmware. He ported it to the Canon EOS 550D in July 2010.\n\nStarting in September 2010, a person using the name \"A1ex\" on the CHDK (Canon Hack Development Kit) website forum and other people ported Magic Lantern to the Canon EOS 50D, 60D, 500D and 600D. As of August 2017 support for the Canon EOS 5D, 5D Mk III, 6D, 7D, 60Da, 650D, 700D, and 1100D DSLRs and the mirror-less EOS M had also been added. Later mirrorless cameras are not supported because they use a codebase similar to Canon PowerShot cameras rather than Canon EOS cameras; therefore CHDK ports are planned.\n\nOriginally developed for DSLR filmmaking, Magic Lantern's features have expanded to also include those for still photography.\n\n\nBecause installing Magic Lantern does not replace the stock Canon firmware or modify the ROM but rather runs alongside it, it is both easy to remove and carries little risk. Canon has not made any official statements regarding the add-on firmware, either on the subject of warranty or on the features. In response to emails Canon has stated that while their warranty doesn't cover damage caused by third party firmware it will cover unrelated issues such as malfunctioning buttons even if third party firmware has been installed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1896323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1896323", "title": "May 19th Communist Organization", "text": "May 19th Communist Organization\n\nThe May 19th Communist Organization (also variously referred to as the May 19 Coalition, May 19 Communist Coalition, and various alternatives of M19CO), was a US-based, self-described revolutionary organization formed by members of the Weather Underground Organization. The group was originally known as the New York chapter of the Prairie Fire Organizing Committee (PFOC), an organization devoted to legally promoting the causes of the Weather Underground. This was part of the Prairie Fire Manifesto's change in Weather Underground Organization strategy, which demanded both aboveground mass and clandestine organizations. The role of the clandestine organization would be to build the \"consciousness of action\" and prepare the way for the development of a people's militia. Concurrently, the role of the mass movement (i.e., above ground Prairie Fire Collective) would include support for, and encouragement of, armed action. Such an alliance would, according to Weather, \"help create the 'sea' for the guerrillas to swim in.\" The M19CO name was derived from the birthdays of Ho Chi Minh and Malcolm X. The May 19 Communist Organization was active from 1978 to 1985. M19CO was a combination of the Black Liberation Army and the Weather Underground. It also included members of the Black Panthers and the Republic of New Africa (RNA).\nThis alliance between the Weather Underground and the Black Liberation Army had three objectives:\n\nFrom 1982 to 1985 M19CO committed a series of bombings, including bombings of the National War College, the Washington Navy Yard Computing Center, the Israeli Aircraft Industries Building, New York City's South African consulate, the Washington Navy Yard Officers' Club, New York City's Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, and the United States Capitol Building. Three officers were killed during the Brinks Robbery, but no one was injured or killed in their bombings.\nAlmost all the M19CO members were convicted in a US Court of Law for these offenses, but Elizabeth Ann Duke remains at large.\n\n\n\n\nBy May 23, 1985, all members of the group had been arrested, with the exception of Elizabeth Duke, who remains a fugitive. Alleged rioter Donna Joan Borup was arrested but failed to appear at trial and is currently on the FBI Most Wanted Terrorist list.\n\n"}
{"id": "577035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=577035", "title": "Nondualism", "text": "Nondualism\n\nIn spirituality, nondualism, also called non-duality, means \"not two\" or \"one undivided without a second\". Nondualism primarily refers to a mature state of consciousness, in which the dichotomy of I-other is \"transcended\", and awareness is described as \"centerless\" and \"without dichotomies\". Although this state of consciousness may seem to appear spontaneous, it usually follows prolonged preparation through ascetic or meditative/contemplative practice, which includes ethical injunctions. While the term \"nondualism\" is derived from Advaita Vedanta, descriptions of nondual consciousness can be found within Hinduism (Turiya, sahaja), Buddhism (Buddha-nature, rigpa, shentong), and western Christian and neo-Platonic traditions (henosis, mystical union).\n\nThe Asian idea of nondualism developed in the Vedic and post-Vedic Hindu philosophies, as well as in the Buddhist traditions. The oldest traces of nondualism in Indian thought are found as \"Advaita\" in the earlier Hindu Upanishads such as Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, as well as other pre-Buddhist Upanishads such as the Chandogya Upanishad, which emphasizes the unity of individual soul called Atman and the Supreme called Brahman. In Hinduism, nondualism has more commonly become associated with the Advaita Vedanta tradition of Adi Shankara.\n\nThe Buddhist tradition added the teachings of śūnyatā; the two truths doctrine, the nonduality of the absolute and the relative truth, and the Yogachara notion of \"mind/thought only\" (\"citta-matra\") or \"representation-only\" (\"vijñaptimātra\"). \"Vijñapti-mātra\" and the two truths doctrine, coupled with the concept of Buddha-nature, have also been influential concepts in the subsequent development of Mahayana Buddhism, not only in India, but also in China and Tibet, most notably the Chán (Zen) and Dzogchen traditions.\n\nWestern Neo-Platonism is an essential element of both Christian contemplation and mysticism, and of Western esotericism and modern spirituality, especially Unitarianism, Transcendentalism, Universalism and Perennialism.\n\n\"Advaita\" of Hinduism and \"Advaya\" of Buddhism both refer to nondualism.\n\n\"Advaita\" (अद्वैत) is from Sanskrit roots \"a\", not; \"dvaita\", dual, and is usually translated as \"nondualism\", \"nonduality\" and \"nondual\". The term \"nondualism\" and the term \"advaita\" from which it originates are polyvalent terms. The English word's origin is the Latin \"duo\" meaning \"two\" prefixed with \"non-\" meaning \"not\".\n\n\"Advaya\" (अद्वय) is also a Sanskrit word that means \"identity, unique, not two, without a second,\" and typically refers to the two truths doctrine of Mahayana Buddhism, especially Madhyamaka.\n\nOne of the earliest uses of the word Advaita is found in verse 4.3.32 of the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad (~800 BCE), and in verses 7 and 12 of the Mandukya Upanishad (variously dated to have been composed between 500 BCE to 200 CE). The term appears in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad in the section with a discourse of the oneness of Atman and Brahman, as follows:\nThe English term \"nondual\" was also informed by early translations of the Upanishads in Western languages other than English from 1775. These terms have entered the English language from literal English renderings of \"advaita\" subsequent to the first wave of English translations of the Upanishads. These translations commenced with the work of Müller (1823–1900), in the monumental \"Sacred Books of the East\" (1879).\n\nMax Müller rendered \"advaita\" as \"Monism\", as have many recent scholars. However, some scholars state that \"advaita\" is not really monism.\n\nNondualism is a fuzzy concept, for which many definitions can be found.\n\nAccording to Espín and Nickoloff, \"nondualism\" is the thought in some Hindu, Buddhist and Taoist schools, which\nAccording to Jeff Foster,\nJeff Foster further explains\nDavid Loy, who sees non-duality between subject and object as a common thread in Taoism, Mahayana Buddhism, and Advaita Vedanta, distinguishes \"Five Flavors Of Nonduality\":\n\nThe idea of nondualism is typically contrasted with dualism, with dualism defined as the view that the universe and the nature of existence consists of two realities, such as the God and the world, or as God and Devil, or as mind and matter, and so on.\n\nThe idea of a \"nondual consciousness\" has gained attraction and popularity in western spirituality and New Age-thinking. It is recognized in the Asian traditions, but also in western and Mediterranean religious traditions, and in western philosophy. Nondual consciousness is perceived in a wide variety of religious traditions:\n\n\"Advaita\" refers to nondualism, non-distinction between realities, the oneness of Atman and Brahman, as in Vedanta, Shaktism and Shaivism. Although the term is best known from the Advaita Vedanta school of Adi Shankara, \"advaita\" is used in treatises by numerous medieval era Indian scholars, as well as modern schools and teachers.\n\nThe Hindu concept of \"Advaita\" refers to the idea that all of the universe is one essential reality, and that all facets and aspects of the universe is ultimately an expression or appearance of that one reality. According to Dasgupta and Mohanta, non-dualism developed in various strands of Indian thought, both Vedic and Buddhist, from the Upanishadic period onward. The oldest traces of nondualism in Indian thought may be found in the Chandogya Upanishad, which pre-dates the earliest Buddhism. Pre-sectarian Buddhism may also have been responding to the teachings of the Chandogya Upanishad, rejecting some of its Atman-Brahman related metaphysics.\n\nAdvaita appears in different shades in various schools of Hinduism such as in Advaita Vedanta, Vishishtadvaita Vedanta (Vaishnavism), Suddhadvaita Vedanta (Vaishnavism), Shaivism and Shaktism. It implies, in Advaita Vedanta of Adi Shankara, that all of the reality is Brahman, and that the Atman (soul, self) and Brahman (ultimate unchanging reality) are one. Advaita ideas of schools within Hinduism contrasts with its Dvaita schools such as of Madhvacharya who stated that the experienced reality and God are two (dual) and distinct.\n\nSeveral schools of Vedanta teach a form of nondualism. The best-known is Advaita Vedanta, but other nondual Vedanta schools also have a significant influence and following, such as Vishishtadvaita Vedanta and Shuddhadvaita, both of which are bhedabheda.\n\nThe nonduality of the Advaita Vedantins is of the identity of Brahman and the Atman. Advaita has become a broad current in Indian culture and religions, influencing subsequent traditions like Kashmir Shaivism.\n\nThe oldest surviving manuscript on Advaita Vedanta is by Gauḍapāda (6th century CE), who has traditionally been regarded as the teacher of Govinda bhagavatpāda and the grandteacher of Shankara. Advaita is best known from the Advaita Vedanta tradition of Adi Shankara, who states that Brahman is pure Being, Consciousness and Bliss (\"Sat-cit-ananda\").\n\nAdvaita, states Murti, is the knowledge of Brahman and self-consciousness (Vijnana) without differences. The goal of Vedanta is to know the \"truly real\" and thus become one with it. According to Advaita Vedanta, Brahman is the highest Reality, The universe, according to Advaita philosophy, does not simply come from Brahman, it \"is\" Brahman. Brahman is the single binding unity behind the diversity in all that exists in the universe. Brahman is also that which is the cause of all changes. Brahman is the \"creative principle which lies realized in the whole world\".\n\nThe nondualism of Advaita, relies on the Hindu concept of Ātman which is a Sanskrit word that means \"real self\" of the individual, \"essence\", and soul. Ātman is the first principle, the \"true\" self of an individual beyond identification with phenomena, the essence of an individual. Atman is the Universal Principle, one eternal undifferentiated self-luminous consciousness, asserts Advaita Vedanta school of Hinduism.\n\nAdvaita Vedanta philosophy considers Atman as self-existent awareness, limitless, non-dual and same as Brahman. Advaita school asserts that there is \"soul, self\" within each living entity which is fully identical with Brahman. This identity holds that there is One Soul that connects and exists in all living beings, regardless of their shapes or forms, there is no distinction, no superior, no inferior, no separate devotee soul (Atman), no separate God soul (Brahman). The Oneness unifies all beings, there is the divine in every being, and all existence is a single Reality, state the Advaita Vedantins. The nondualism concept of Advaita Vedanta asserts that each soul is non-different from the infinite Brahman.\n\nAdvaita Vedanta adopts sublation as the criterion to postulate three levels of ontological reality:\n\nScholars state that Advaita Vedanta was influenced by Mahayana Buddhism, given the common terminology and methodology and some common doctrines. Eliot Deutsch and Rohit Dalvi state:\nAdvaita Vedanta is related to Madhyamaka via Gaudapada, who took over the Buddhist doctrine that ultimate reality is pure consciousness (\"vijñapti-mātra\"). Shankara harmonised Gaudapada's ideas with the Upanishadic texts, and provided an orthodox hermeneutical basis for heterodox Buddhist phenomology.\n\nGaudapada adopted the Buddhist concept of ultimate reality is pure consciousness (\"vijñapti-mātra\"). The Buddhist term is often used interchangeably with the term \"citta-mātra\", but they have different meanings. The standard translation of both terms is \"consciousness-only\" or \"mind-only.\" Advaita Vedanta has been called \"idealistic monism\" by scholars, but some disagree with this label. Another concept found in both Madhyamaka Buddhism and Advaita Vedanta is Ajativada (\"ajāta\"), which Gaudapada adopted from Nagarjuna's philosophy. Gaudapada \"wove [both doctrines] into a philosophy of the \"Mandukaya Upanisad\", which was further developed by Shankara.\n\nMichael Comans states there is a fundamental difference between Buddhist thought and that of Gaudapada, in that Buddhism has as its philosophical basis the doctrine of Dependent Origination according to which \"everything is without an essential nature (\"nissvabhava\"), and everything is empty of essential nature (\"svabhava-sunya\")\", while Gaudapada does not rely on this principle at all. Gaudapada's \"Ajativada\" is an outcome of reasoning applied to an unchanging nondual reality according to which \"there exists a Reality (\"sat\") that is unborn (\"aja\")\" that has essential nature (\"svabhava\"), and this is the \"eternal, fearless, undecaying Self (Atman) and Brahman\". Thus, Gaudapada differs from Buddhist scholars such as Nagarjuna, states Comans, by accepting the premises and relying on the fundamental teaching of the Upanishads. Among other things, Vedanta school of Hinduism holds the premise, \"Atman exists, as self evident truth\", a concept it uses in its theory of nondualism. Buddhism, in contrast, holds the premise, \"Atman does not exist (or, An-atman) as self evident\".\n\nMahadevan suggests that Gaudapada adopted Buddhist terminology and adapted its doctrines to his Vedantic goals, much like early Buddhism adopted Upanishadic terminology and adapted its doctrines to Buddhist goals; both used pre-existing concepts and ideas to convey new meanings. Dasgupta and Mohanta note that Buddhism and Shankara's Advaita Vedanta are not opposing systems, but \"different phases of development of the same non-dualistic metaphysics from the Upanishadic period to the time of Sankara.\"\n\nVishishtadvaita Vedanta is another main school of Vedanta and teaches the nonduality of the qualified whole, in which Brahman alone exists, but is characterized by multiplicity. It can be described as \"qualified monism,\" or \"qualified non-dualism,\" or \"attributive monism.\"\n\nAccording to this school, the world is real, yet underlying all the differences is an all-embracing unity, of which all \"things\" are an \"attribute.\" Ramanuja, the main proponent of Vishishtadvaita philosophy contends that the Prasthana Traya (\"The three courses\") – namely the Upanishads, the Bhagavad Gita, and the Brahma Sutras – are to be interpreted in a way that shows this unity in diversity, for any other way would violate their consistency.\n\nVedanta Desika defines \"Vishishtadvaita\" using the statement: \"Asesha Chit-Achit Prakaaram Brahmaikameva Tatvam\" – \"Brahman, as qualified by the sentient and insentient modes (or attributes), is the only reality.\"\n\nNeo-Vedanta, also called \"neo-Hinduism\" is a modern interpretation of Hinduism which developed in response to western colonialism and orientalism, and aims to present Hinduism as a \"homogenized ideal of Hinduism\" with Advaita Vedanta as its central doctrine.\n\nNeo-Vedanta, as represented by Vivekananda and Radhakrishnan, is indebted to Advaita vedanta, but also reflects Advaya-philosophy. A main influence on neo-Advaita was :Ramakrishna, himself a bhakta and tantrika, and the guru of Vivekananda. According to Michael Taft, Ramakrishna reconciled the dualism of formlessness and form. Ramakrishna regarded the Supreme Being to be both Personal and Impersonal, active and inactive:\nRadhakrishnan acknowledged the reality and diversity of the world of experience, which he saw as grounded in and supported by the absolute or Brahman. According to Anil Sooklal, Vivekananda's neo-Advaita \"reconciles Dvaita or dualism and Advaita or non-dualism\":\nRadhakrishnan also reinterpreted Shankara's notion of \"maya\". According to Radhakrishnan, maya is not a strict absolute idealism, but \"a subjective misperception of the world as ultimately real.\" According to Sarma, standing in the tradition of Nisargadatta Maharaj, Advaitavāda means \"spiritual non-dualism or absolutism\", in which opposites are \"manifestations\" of the Absolute, which itself is immanent and transcendent:\nAdvaita is also a central concept in various schools of Shaivism, such as Kashmir Shaivism and Shiva Advaita.\n\nKashmir Shaivism is a school of Śaivism, described by Abhinavagupta as \"paradvaita\", meaning \"the supreme and absolute non-dualism\". It is categorized by various scholars as monistic idealism (absolute idealism, theistic monism, realistic idealism, transcendental physicalism or concrete monism).\n\nKashmir Saivism is based on a strong monistic interpretation of the \"Bhairava Tantras\" and its subcategory the \"Kaula Tantras\", which were tantras written by the Kapalikas. There was additionally a revelation of the \"Siva Sutras\" to Vasugupta. Kashmir Saivism claimed to supersede the dualistic Shaiva Siddhanta. Somananda, the first theologian of monistic Saivism, was the teacher of Utpaladeva, who was the grand-teacher of Abhinavagupta, who in turn was the teacher of Ksemaraja.\n\nThe philosophy of Kashmir Shaivism can be seen in contrast to Shankara's Advaita. Advaita Vedanta holds that Brahman is inactive (\"niṣkriya\") and the phenomenal world is an illusion (\"māyā\"). In Kashmir Shavisim, all things are a manifestation of the Universal Consciousness, \"Chit\" or \"Brahman\". Kashmir Shavisim sees the phenomenal world (\"Śakti\") as real: it exists, and has its being in Consciousness (\"Chit\").\n\nKashmir Shaivism was influenced by, and took over doctrines from, several orthodox and heterodox Indian religious and philosophical traditions. These include Vedanta, Samkhya, Patanjali Yoga and Nyayas, and various Buddhist schools, including Yogacara and Madhyamika, but also Tantra and the Nath-tradition.\n\n\"Advaita\" is also part of other Indian traditions, which are less strongly, or not all, organised in monastic and institutional organisations. Although often called \"Advaita Vedanta,\" these traditions have their origins in vernacular movements and \"householder\" traditions, and have close ties to the Nath, Nayanars and Sant Mat traditions.\n\nRamana Maharshi (30 December 1879 – 14 April 1950) is widely acknowledged as one of the outstanding Indian gurus of modern times. Ramana's teachings are often interpreted as Advaita Vedanta, though Ramana Maharshi never \"received diksha (initiation) from any recognised authority\". Ramana himself did not call his insights advaita:\n\"Neo-Advaita\" is a New Religious Movement based on a modern, western interpretation of Advaita Vedanta, especially the teachings of Ramana Maharshi. According to Arthur Versluis, neo-Advaita is part of a larger religious current which he calls immediatism, \"the assertion of immediate spiritual illumination without much if any preparatory practice within a particular religious tradition.\" Neo-Advaita is criticized for this immediatism and its lack of preparatory practices. Notable neo-advaita teachers are H. W. L. Poonja and his students Gangaji, Andrew Cohen, and Eckhart Tolle.\n\nThe Natha Sampradaya, with Nath yogis such as Gorakhnath, introduced Sahaja, the concept of a spontaneous spirituality. Sahaja means \"spontaneous, natural, simple, or easy\". According to Ken Wilber, this state reflects nonduality.\n\nThe Advaya concept of nonduality refers to the \"non-two\" understanding of reality, which has its origins in Madhyamaka-thought, which in turn is built on earlier Buddhist thought, and expressed in the two truths doctrine. In Nagarjuna's interpretation it is the non-duality of conventional and ultimate truth, or the overcoming of dichotomies such as that between samsara (conditioned or relative reality, rebirth) and nirvana (unconditioned and absolute reality, liberation).\n\nNondualism in Buddhism is explicitly represented by the concept of Buddha-nature, and Tibetan concepts like rigpa and shentong. It has its roots in Buddhist ideas of luminous mind, the \"pure\" consciousness which shines through when purified from the defilements of hatred, anger and ignorance. Nondualism can also be found in Yogacara thought, and its concept of the alaija-vijnana. Subsequently, combinations of Buddha-nature thought and Yogacara, and also of Yogacara and Madhyamaka, developed in India, Tibet and China, and can be found in Tibetan Buddhism and Zen.\n\nThe nonduality of relative and ultimate truth was further developed and re-interpreted in Chinese Buddhism, where the two truths doctrine came to refer to the nonduality of nirvana and samsara, re-incorporating essentialist notions.\n\nIn Madhyamaka Buddhism \"Advaya\" refers to the nonduality of conventional and ultimate truth, or the relative (phenomenal) world and the Absolute, such as in samsara and nirvana. Madhyamaka, also known as \"Śūnyavāda\", refers primarily to a Mahāyāna Buddhist school of philosophy founded by Nāgārjuna.\n\nIn Madhyamaka, the two truths refer to conventional and ultimate truth. The ultimate truth is \"emptiness\", or non-existence of inherently existing \"things\", and the \"emptiness of emptiness\": emptiness does not in itself constitute an absolute reality. Conventionally, \"things\" exist, but ultimately, they are \"empty\" of any existence on their own, as described in Nāgārjuna's \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\":\n\"Emptiness\" is a consequence of \"pratītyasamutpāda\" (dependent arising), the teaching that no \"dharma\" (\"thing\") has an existence of its own, but always comes into existence in dependence on other \"dharmas\". According to Madhyamaka all phenomena are empty of \"substance\" or \"essence\" () because they are dependently co-arisen. Likewise it is because they are dependently co-arisen that they have no intrinsic, independent reality of their own. Madhyamaka also rejects the existence of an absolute reality or Self. Ultimately, \"absolute reality\" is not an absolute, or the non-duality of a personal self and an absolute Self, but the deconstruction of such reifications.\n\nIt also means that there is no \"transcendental ground,\" and that \"ultimate reality\" has no existence of its own, but is the negation of such a transcendental reality, and the impossibility of any statement on such an ultimately existing transcendental reality: it is no more than a fabrication of the mind. Susan Kahn further explains:\nIn Madhyamaka-Buddhism, \"Advaya\" is an epistemological approach. It is the recognition that ultimately everything is impermanent (anicca) and devoid of \"self\" or \"essence\" (anatta), and that this emptiness does not constitute an \"absolute\" reality in itself..\n\nThe later Madhyamikas, states Yuichi Kajiyama, developed the \"Advaya\" definition as a means to \"Nirvikalpa-Samadhi\" by suggesting that \"things arise neither from their own selves nor from other things, and that when subject and object are unreal, the mind, being not different, cannot be true either; thereby one must abandon attachment to cognition of nonduality as well, and understand the lack of intrinsic nature of everything\". Thus, the Buddhist nondualism or Advaya concept became a means to realizing absolute emptiness.\n\nIn Yogacara, \"adhyava\" may also refer to overcoming the dichotomies of cognitum and cognition imposed by conceptual thought. Yogācāra (Sanskrit; literally: \"yoga practice\"; \"one whose practice is yoga\") is an influential school of Buddhist philosophy and psychology emphasizing phenomenology and (some argue) ontology through the interior lens of meditative and yogic practices. It developed within Indian Mahāyāna Buddhism in about the 4th century CE.\n\nThe concept of \"adyava\" in Yogacara is an epistemological stance on the nature of knowledge. Early Buddhism schools such as Sarvastivada and Sautrāntika, that thrived through the early centuries of the common era, postulated a dualism, \"dvaya\", wherein grasping (\"grahaka\", \"cognition\") and the grasped (\"gradya\", \"cognitum\") both are really existing. Yogacara postulates an \"advaya\" of grasping and the grasped, stating that only the mind (\"citta-mātra\") or the representations we cognize (\"vijñapti-mātra\"), really exist.\n\nIn Yogacara-thought, cognition is a modification of the base-consciousness, \"alaya-vijnana\". By the reification of these modifications into separate consciousnesses, the Eighth Consciousnesses of Yogacara came into existence. In later Buddhist thought, which took an idealistic turn, the storehouse-consciousness or base-consciousness came to be seen as a pure consciousness, from which everything arises. According to the Lankavatara Sutra and the schools of Chan/Zen Buddhism, the alaya-vijnana is identical with the \"tathagata-garbha\", and is fundamentally pure. \"Vijñapti-mātra\", coupled with \"Buddha-nature\" or \"tathagatagarba\", has been an influential concept in the subsequent development of Mahayana Buddhism, not only in India, but also in China and Tibet, most notable in the Chán (Zen) and Dzogchen traditions.\n\nAccording to Kochumuttom, Yogacara is a \"realistic pluralism\". It does not deny the existence of individual beings, but denies the following:\n\"Vijñapti-mātra\", \"consciousness-only\" or \"representation-only\" is one of the main features of Yogācāra philosophy. It is often used interchangeably with the term \"citta-mātra\", but they have different meanings. The standard translation of both terms is \"consciousness-only\" or \"mind-only.\" Several modern researchers object to this translation, and the accompanying label of \"absolute idealism\" or \"idealistic monism\". A better translation for \"vijñapti-mātra\" is \"representation-only\".\n\n\"Vijñapti-mātra\" then means \"mere representation of consciousness\":\nThe term \"vijñapti-mātra\" replaced the \"more metaphysical\" term \"citta-mātra\" used in the Lankavatara Sutra. The Lankavatara Sutra \"appears to be one of the earliest attempts to provide a philosophical justification for the Absolutism that emerged in Mahayana in relation to the concept of Buddha\". It uses the term \"citta-mātra\", which means properly \"thought-only\". By using this term it develops an \"ontology\", in contrast to the \"epistemology\" of the term vijñapti-mātra. The Lankavatara Sutra equates \"citta\" and the absolute. According to Kochumuttom, this is not the way Yogacara uses the term vijñapti:\nThe Yogācārins defined three basic modes by which we perceive our world. These are referred to in Yogācāra as the three natures of perception. They are:\n\nAlso, regarding perception, the Yogācārins emphasized that our everyday understanding of the existence of external objects is problematic, since in order to perceive any object (and thus, for all practical purposes, for the object to \"exist\"), there must be a sensory organ as well as a correlative type of consciousness to allow the process of cognition to occur.\n\n\"Vijñapti-mātra\" and the two truths doctrine, as understood in Chinese Buddhism, are closely linked to \"Buddha-nature\". Those teachings have had a profound influence on Mahayana Buddhism, not only in India, but also in China and Tibet, most notably the Chán (Zen) and Dzogchen traditions. They may be related to an archaic form of Buddhism which is close to Brahmanical beliefs, elements of which are preserved in the Nikayas, and survived in the Mahayana tradition. Contrary to popular opinion, the Theravada and Mahayana traditions may be \"divergent, but equally reliable records of a pre-canonical Buddhism which is now lost forever.\" The Mahayana tradition may have preserved a very old, \"pre-Canonical\" tradition, which was largely, but not completely, left out of the Theravada-canon.\n\nThe Buddhist teachings on the \"Buddha-nature\" may be regarded as a form of nondualism. \"Buddha-nature\" is the essential element that allows sentient beings to become Buddhas. The term, Buddha nature, is a translation of the Sanskrit coinage, 'Buddha-dhātu', which seems first to have appeared in the Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra, where it refers to 'a sacred nature that is the basis for [beings'] becoming buddhas.' The term seems to have been used most frequently to translate the Sanskrit \"\"Tathāgatagarbha\". The Sanskrit term \"tathāgatagarbha\"\" may be parsed into \"tathāgata\" (\"the one thus gone\", referring to the Buddha) and \"garbha\" (\"womb\"). The tathagatagarbha, when freed from \"avidya\" (\"ignorance\"), is the dharmakaya, the \"Absolute\".\n\nTantra is a religious tradition that originated in India in the middle of the first millennium CE, and has been practiced by Buddhists, Hindus and Jains throughout south and southeast Asia. It views humans as a microcosmos which mirrors the macrocosmos. Its aim is to gain access to the energy or enlightened consciousness of the godhead or absolute, by embodying this energy or consciousness through rituals. It views the godhead as both transcendent and immanent, and views the world as real, and not as an illusion:\nRamakrishna too was a tantric adherent, although his tantric background was overlaid and smoothed with an Advaita interpretation by his student Vivekananda.\n\nIn Chinese Buddhism the Two truths doctrine was interpreted as an ontological teaching of three truths, states Whalen Lai, wherein \"samsaric being and nirvanic emptiness as well any and all distinctions are not two\". The Chinese Buddhist scholars posited that there is a third truth above the mundane truth of samsaric being and the highest truth nirvanic emptiness (sunyata). In one description, everything is posited to be simultaneously \"empty, real and neither\". According to Lai, most scholars of Chinese Buddhism, unlike Nagarjuna, failed to realize that the two truths were epistemic, not ontological. This mistake was identified and discussed by Jizang of Sanlun school.\n\nChinese Buddhism evolved over time. Before 400 CE, states Lai, the Chinese understood the Buddhist doctrine to be that \"karmic rebirth entailed the transmigration of soul\". It was monk Mindu who understood that the Buddha taught a no soul doctrine, and he tried to explain this to his Buddhist \"sangha\", but was vilified for denying the existence of soul. Mindu's ideas, however, began a momentum that led to the emergence of \"six prajna\" schools in the 4th and 5th century CE. In the 6th century CE it became clear that anatman and sunyata are central Buddhist teachings, which make the postulation of an eternal self problematic.\n\nAnother point of confusion was the Two truths doctrine of Madhyamaka, the mundane truth and the highest truth. Chinese thinking took this to refer to two \"ontological truths\": reality exists at two levels, the mundane level of samsara and the highest level of nirvana emptiness. But in Madhyamaka these are two \"epistemological truths\", two different ways to look at reality. The early Chinese scholars supposed that there is an essential truth above the two truths, which unites both these. This three truths doctrine was different from a similarly named doctrine of Yogacara and Indian Buddhism.\n\nThe Huayan school or Flower Garland is a tradition of Mahayana Buddhist philosophy that flourished in China during the Tang period particularly with Fazang (~700 CE). It is based on the Sanskrit Flower Garland Sutra (S. \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\", C. \"Huayan Jing\") and on a lengthy Chinese interpretation of it, the Huayan Lun. The name Flower Garland is meant to suggest the crowning glory of profound understanding. Huayan teaches the Four Dharmadhatu, four ways to view reality:\n\nThe Buddha-nature and Yogacara philosophies have had a strong influence on Chán and Zen. The teachings of Zen are expressed by a set of polarities: Buddha-nature – sunyata; absolute-relative; sudden and gradual enlightenment.\n\nThe Lankavatara-sutra, a popular sutra in Zen, endorses the Buddha-nature and emphasizes purity of mind, which can be attained in gradations. The Diamond-sutra, another popular sutra, emphasizes sunyata, which \"must be realized totally or not at all\". The Prajnaparamita Sutras emphasize the non-duality of form and emptiness: form is emptiness, emptiness is form, as the Heart Sutra says. According to Chinul, Zen points not to mere emptiness, but to \"suchness\" or the dharmadhatu.\n\nThe idea that the ultimate reality is present in the daily world of relative reality fitted into the Chinese culture which emphasized the mundane world and society. But this does not explain how the absolute is present in the relative world. This question is answered in such schemata as the Five Ranks of Tozan and the Oxherding Pictures.\n\nThe continuous pondering of the break-through kōan (\"shokan\") or Hua Tou, \"word head\", leads to kensho, an initial insight into \"seeing the (Buddha-)nature. According to Hori, a central theme of many koans is the \"identity of opposites\", and point to the original nonduality. Victor Sogen Hori describes kensho, when attained through koan-study, as the absence of subject–object duality. The aim of the so-called break-through koan is to see the \"nonduality of subject and object\", \nin which \"subject and object are no longer separate and distinct.\"\n\nZen Buddhist training does not end with kenshō. Practice is to be continued to deepen the insight and to express it in daily life, to fully manifest the nonduality of absolute and relative. To deepen the initial insight of kensho, shikantaza and kōan-study are necessary. This trajectory of initial insight followed by a gradual deepening and ripening is expressed by Linji Yixuan in his Three Mysterious Gates, the Four Ways of Knowing of Hakuin, the Five Ranks, and the Ten Ox-Herding Pictures which detail the steps on the Path.\n\nThe polarity of absolute and relative is also expressed as \"essence-function\". The absolute is essence, the relative is function. They can't be seen as separate realities, but interpenetrate each other. The distinction does not \"exclude any other frameworks such as \"neng-so\" or 'subject-object' constructions\", though the two \"are completely different from each other in terms of their way of thinking\". In Korean Buddhism, essence-function is also expressed as \"body\" and \"the body's functions\". A metaphor for essence-function is \"a lamp and its light\", a phrase from the \"Platform Sutra\", where Essence is lamp and Function is light.\n\nThe Gelugpa school, following Tsongkhapa, adheres to the adyava Prasaṅgika Mādhyamaka view, which states that all phenomena are sunyata, empty of self-nature, and that this \"emptiness\" is itself only a qualification, not a concretely existing \"absolute\" reality.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, the essentialist position is represented by \"shentong\", while the nominalist, or non-essentialist position, is represented by \"rangtong\".\n\nShentong is a philosophical sub-school found in Tibetan Buddhism. Its adherents generally hold that the nature of mind, the substratum of the mindstream, is \"empty\" () of \"other\" (), i.e., empty of all qualities other than an inherently existing, ineffable nature. Shentong has often been incorrectly associated with the Cittamātra (Yogacara) position, but is in fact also Madhyamaka, and is present primarily as the main philosophical theory of the Jonang school, although it is also taught by the Sakya and Kagyu schools. According to Shentongpa (proponents of shentong), the emptiness of ultimate reality should not be characterized in the same way as the emptiness of apparent phenomena because it is \"prabhāśvara-saṃtāna\", or \"luminous mindstream\" endowed with limitless Buddha qualities. It is empty of all that is false, not empty of the limitless Buddha qualities that are its innate nature.\n\nThe contrasting Prasaṅgika view that all phenomena are sunyata, empty of self-nature, and that this \"emptiness\" is not a concretely existing \"absolute\" reality, is labeled rangtong, \"empty of other.\"\n\nThe shentong-view is related to the Ratnagotravibhāga sutra and the Yogacara-Madhyamaka synthesis of Śāntarakṣita. The truth of sunyata is acknowledged, but not considered to be the highest truth, which is the empty nature of mind. Insight into sunyata is preparatory for the recognition of the nature of mind.\n\nDzogchen is concerned with the \"natural state\" and emphasizes direct experience. The state of nondual awareness is called \"rigpa\". This primordial nature is clear light, unproduced and unchanging, free from all defilements. Through meditation, the Dzogchen practitioner experiences that thoughts have no substance. Mental phenomena arise and fall in the mind, but fundamentally they are empty. The practitioner then considers where the mind itself resides. Through careful examination one realizes that the mind is emptiness.\n\nKarma Lingpa (1326–1386) revealed \"Self-Liberation through seeing with naked awareness\" (\"rigpa ngo-sprod\",) which is attributed to Padmasambhava. The text gives an introduction, or pointing-out instruction (\"ngo-spro\"), into rigpa, the state of presence and awareness. In this text, Karma Lingpa writes the following regarding the unity of various terms for nonduality:\nApart from Hinduism and Buddhism, self-proclaimed nondualists have also discerned nondualism in other religious traditions.\n\nSikh theology suggests human souls and the monotheistic God are two different realities (dualism), distinguishing it from the monistic and various shades of nondualistic philosophies of other Indian religions. However, Sikh scholars have attempted to explore nondualism exegesis of Sikh scriptures, such as during the neocolonial reformist movement by Bhai Vir Singh of the Singh Sabha. According to Mandair, Singh interprets the Sikh scriptures as teaching nonduality.\n\nTaoism's \"wu wei\" (Chinese \"wu\", not; \"wei\", doing) is a term with various translations and interpretations designed to distinguish it from passivity. The concept of Yin and Yang, often mistakenly conceived of as a symbol of dualism, is actually meant to convey the notion that all apparent opposites are complementary parts of a non-dual whole.\n\nA modern strand of thought sees \"nondual consciousness\" as a universal psychological state, which is a common stratum and of the same essence in different spiritual traditions. It is derived from Neo-Vedanta and neo-Advaita, but has historical roots in neo-Platonism, Western esotericism, and Perennialism. The idea of nondual consciousness as \"the central essence\" is a universalistic and perennialist idea, which is part of a modern mutual exchange and synthesis of ideas between western spiritual and esoteric traditions and Asian religious revival and reform movements.\n\nCentral elements in the western traditions are Neo-Platonism, which had a strong influence on Christian contemplation c.q. mysticism, and it's accompanying apophatic theology; and Western esotericism, which also incorporated Neo-Platonism and Gnostic elements including Hermeticism. Western traditions are, among others, the idea of a Perennial Philosophy, Swedenborgianism, Unitarianism, Orientalism, Transcendentalism, Theosophy, and New Age.\n\nEastern movements are the Hindu reform movements such as Vivekananda's Neo-Vedanta and Aurobindo's Integral Yoga, the Vipassana movement, and Buddhist modernism.\n\nSince its beginning, Gnosticism has been characterized by many dualisms and dualities, including the doctrine of a separate God and Manichaean (good/evil) dualism. Ronald Miller interprets the Gospel of Thomas as a teaching of \"nondualistic consciousness\".\n\nThe precepts of Neoplatonism of Plotinus (2nd century) assert nondualism. Neoplatonism had a strong influence on Christian mysticism.\n\nSome scholars suggest a possible link of more ancient Indian philosophies on Neoplatonism, while other scholars consider these claims as unjustified and extravagant with the counter hypothesis that nondualism developed independently in ancient India and Greece. The nondualism of Advaita Vedanta and Neoplatonism have been compared by various scholars, such as J. F. Staal, Frederick Copleston, Aldo Magris and Mario Piantelli, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, Gwen Griffith-Dickson, John Y. Fenton and Dale Riepe.\n\nIn Christian mysticism, contemplative prayer and Apophatic theology are central elements. In contemplative prayer, the mind is focused by constant repetition a phrase or word. Saint John Cassian recommended use of the phrase \"O God, make speed to save me: O Lord, make haste to help me\". Another formula for repetition is the name of Jesus. or the Jesus Prayer, which has been called \"the mantra of the Orthodox Church\", although the term \"Jesus Prayer\" is not found in the Fathers of the Church. The author of \"The Cloud of Unknowing\" recommended use of a monosyllabic word, such as \"God\" or \"Love\".\n\nApophatic theology is derived from Neo-Platonism via Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite. In this approach, the notion of God is stripped from all positive qualifications, leaving a \"darkness\" or \"unground.\" It had a strong influence on western mysticism. A notable example is Meister Eckhart, who also attracted attention from Zen-Buddhists like D.T. Suzuki in modern times, due to the similarities between Buddhist thought and Neo-Platonism.\n\nThe Cloud of Unknowing – an anonymous work of Christian mysticism written in Middle English in the latter half of the 14th century – advocates a mystic relationship with God. The text describes a spiritual union with God through the heart. The author of the text advocates centering prayer, a form of inner silence. According to the text, God can not be known through knowledge or from intellection. It is only by emptying the mind of all created images and thoughts that we can arrive to experience God. Continuing on this line of thought, God is completely unknowable by the mind. God is not known through the intellect but through intense contemplation, motivated by love, and stripped of all thought.\n\nThomism, though not non-dual in the ordinary sense, considers the unity of God so absolute that even the duality of subject and predicate, to describe him, can be true only by analogy. In Thomist thought, even the Tetragrammaton is only an approximate name, since \"I am\" involves a predicate whose own essence is its subject.\n\nThe former nun and contemplative Bernadette Roberts is considered a nondualist by Jerry Katz.\n\nAccording to Jay Michaelson, nonduality begins to appear in the medieval Jewish textual tradition which peaked in Hasidism. According to Michaelson:\nOne of the most striking contributions of the Kabbalah, which became a central idea in Chasidic thought, was a highly innovative reading of the monotheistic idea. The belief in \"one G-d\" is no longer perceived as the mere rejection of other deities or intermediaries, but a denial of any existence outside of G-d.\n\nWestern esotericism (also called esotericism and esoterism) is a scholarly term for a wide range of loosely related ideas and movements which have developed within Western society. They are largely distinct both from orthodox Judeo-Christian religion and from Enlightenment rationalism. The earliest traditions which later analysis would label as forms of Western esotericism emerged in the Eastern Mediterranean during Late Antiquity, where Hermetism, Gnosticism, and Neoplatonism developed as schools of thought distinct from what became mainstream Christianity. In Renaissance Europe, interest in many of these older ideas increased, with various intellectuals seeking to combine \"pagan\" philosophies with the Kabbalah and with Christian philosophy, resulting in the emergence of esoteric movements like Christian theosophy.\n\nThe Perennial philosophy has its roots in the Renaissance interest in neo-Platonism and its idea of The One, from which all existence emanates. Marsilio Ficino (1433–1499) sought to integrate \"Hermeticism\" with Greek and Jewish-Christian thought, discerning a Prisca theologia which could be found in all ages. Giovanni Pico della Mirandola (1463–94) suggested that truth could be found in many, rather than just two, traditions. He proposed a harmony between the thought of Plato and Aristotle, and saw aspects of the \"Prisca theologia\" in Averroes, the Koran, the Cabala and other sources. Agostino Steuco (1497–1548) coined the term \"philosophia perennis\".\n\nThe western world has been exposed to Indian religions since the late 18th century. The first western translation of a Sanskrit text was made in 1785. It marked a growing interest in Indian culture and languages. The first translation of the dualism and nondualism discussing Upanishads appeared in two parts in 1801 and 1802 and influenced Arthur Schopenhauer, who called them \"the consolation of my life\". Early translations also appeared in other European languages.\n\nTranscendentalism was an early 19th-century liberal Protestant movement that developed in the 1830s and 1840s in the Eastern region of the United States. It was rooted in English and German Romanticism, the Biblical criticism of Herder and Schleiermacher, and the skepticism of Hume.\n\nThe Transcendentalists emphasised an intuitive, experiential approach of religion. Following Schleiermacher, an individual's intuition of truth was taken as the criterion for truth. In the late 18th and early 19th century, the first translations of Hindu texts appeared, which were read by the Transcendentalists and influenced their thinking. The Transcendentalists also endorsed universalist and Unitarianist ideas, leading to Unitarian Universalism, the idea that there must be truth in other religions as well, since a loving God would redeem all living beings, not just Christians.\n\nAmong the transcendentalists' core beliefs was the inherent goodness of both people and nature. Transcendentalists believed that society and its institutions—particularly organized religion and political parties—ultimately corrupted the purity of the individual. They had faith that people are at their best when truly \"self-reliant\" and independent. It is only from such real individuals that true community could be formed.\n\nThe major figures in the movement were Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau, John Muir, Margaret Fuller and Amos Bronson Alcott.\n\nUnitarian Universalism had a strong impact on Ram Mohan Roy and the Brahmo Samaj, and subsequently on Swami Vivekananda. Vivekananda was one of the main representatives of Neo-Vedanta, a modern interpretation of Hinduism in line with western esoteric traditions, especially Transcendentalism, New Thought and Theosophy. His reinterpretation was, and is, very successful, creating a new understanding and appreciation of Hinduism within and outside India, and was the principal reason for the enthusiastic reception of yoga, transcendental meditation and other forms of Indian spiritual self-improvement in the West.\n\nNarendranath Datta (Swami Vivekananda) became a member of a Freemasonry lodge \"at some point before 1884\" and of the Sadharan Brahmo Samaj in his twenties, a breakaway faction of the Brahmo Samaj led by Keshab Chandra Sen and Debendranath Tagore. Ram Mohan Roy (1772-1833), the founder of the Brahmo Samaj, had a strong sympathy for the Unitarians, who were closely connected to the Transcendentalists, who in turn were interested in and influenced by Indian religions early on. It was in this cultic milieu that Narendra became acquainted with Western esotericism. Debendranath Tagore brought this \"neo-Hinduism\" closer in line with western esotericism, a development which was furthered by Keshubchandra Sen, who was also influenced by transcendentalism, which emphasised personal religious experience over mere reasoning and theology. Sen's influence brought Vivekananda fully into contact with western esotericism, and it was also via Sen that he met Ramakrishna.\n\nVivekananda's acquaintance with western esotericism made him very successful in western esoteric circles, beginning with his speech in 1893 at the Parliament of Religions. Vivekananda adapted traditional Hindu ideas and religiosity to suit the needs and understandings of his western audiences, who were especially attracted by and familiar with western esoteric traditions and movements like Transcendentalism and New thought.\n\nIn 1897 he founded the Ramakrishna Mission, which was instrumental in the spread of Neo-Vedanta in the west, and attracted people like Alan Watts. Aldous Huxley, author of \"The Perennial Philosophy\", was associated with another neo-Vedanta organisation, the Vedanta Society of Southern California, founded and headed by Swami Prabhavananda. Together with Gerald Heard, Christopher Isherwood, and other followers he was initiated by the Swami and was taught meditation and spiritual practices.\n\nA major force in the mutual influence of eastern and western ideas and religiosity was the Theosophical Society. It searched for ancient wisdom in the east, spreading eastern religious ideas in the west. One of its salient features was the belief in \"Masters of Wisdom\", \"beings, human or once human, who have transcended the normal frontiers of knowledge, and who make their wisdom available to others\". The Theosophical Society also spread western ideas in the east, aiding a modernisation of eastern traditions, and contributing to a growing nationalism in the Asian colonies.\n\nThe \"New Age movement\" is a Western spiritual movement that developed in the second half of the 20th century. Its central precepts have been described as \"drawing on both Eastern and Western spiritual and metaphysical traditions and infusing them with influences from self-help and motivational psychology, holistic health, parapsychology, consciousness research and quantum physics\".\nThe New Age aims to create \"a spirituality without borders or confining dogmas\" that is inclusive and pluralistic. It holds to \"a holistic worldview\", emphasising that the Mind, Body and Spirit are interrelated and that there is a form of monism and unity throughout the universe. It attempts to create \"a worldview that includes both science and spirituality\" and embraces a number of forms of mainstream science as well as other forms of science that are considered fringe.\n\nInsight (\"prajna\", \"kensho\", \"satori\", \"gnosis\", \"theoria\", \"illumination\"), especially \"enlightenment\" or the realization of the illusory nature of the autonomous \"I\" or self, is a key element in modern western nondual thought. It is the personal realization that ultimate reality is nondual, and is thought to be a validating means of knowledge of this nondual reality. This insight is interpreted as a psychological state, and labeled as religious or mystical experience.\n\nAccording to Hori, the notion of \"religious experience\" can be traced back to William James, who used the term \"religious experience\" in his book, \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\". The origins of the use of this term can be dated further back.\n\nIn the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, several historical figures put forth very influential views that religion and its beliefs can be grounded in experience itself. While Kant held that moral experience justified religious beliefs, John Wesley in addition to stressing individual moral exertion thought that the religious experiences in the Methodist movement (paralleling the Romantic Movement) were foundational to religious commitment as a way of life.\n\nWayne Proudfoot traces the roots of the notion of \"religious experience\" to the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768–1834), who argued that religion is based on a feeling of the infinite. The notion of \"religious experience\" was used by Schleiermacher and Albert Ritschl to defend religion against the growing scientific and secular critique, and defend the view that human (moral and religious) experience justifies religious beliefs.\n\nSuch religious empiricism would be later seen as highly problematic and was – during the period in-between world wars – famously rejected by Karl Barth. In the 20th century, religious as well as moral experience as justification for religious beliefs still holds sway. Some influential modern scholars holding this liberal theological view are Charles Raven and the Oxford physicist/theologian Charles Coulson.\n\nThe notion of \"religious experience\" was adopted by many scholars of religion, of which William James was the most influential.\n\nThe notion of \"experience\" has been criticised. Robert Sharf points out that \"experience\" is a typical Western term, which has found its way into Asian religiosity via western influences.\n\nInsight is not the \"experience\" of some transcendental reality, but is a cognitive event, the (intuitive) understanding or \"grasping\" of some specific understanding of reality, as in kensho or anubhava.\n\n\"Pure experience\" does not exist; all experience is mediated by intellectual and cognitive activity. A pure consciousness without concepts, reached by \"cleaning the doors of perception\", would be an overwhelming chaos of sensory input without coherence.\n\nA main modern proponent of perennialism was Aldous Huxley, who was influenced by Vivekanda's Neo-Vedanta and Universalism. This popular approach finds supports in the \"common-core thesis\". According to the \"common-core thesis\", different descriptions can mask quite similar if not identical experiences:\n\nAccording to Elias Amidon there is an \"indescribable, but definitely recognizable, reality that is the ground of all being.\" According to Renard, these are based on an experience or intuition of \"the Real\". According to Amidon, this reality is signified by \"many names\" from \"spiritual traditions throughout the world\":\nAccording to Renard, nondualism as common essence prefers the term \"nondualism\", instead of monism, because this understanding is \"nonconceptual\", \"not graspapable in an idea\". Even to call this \"ground of reality\", \"One\", or \"Oneness\" is attributing a characteristic to that ground of reality. The only thing that can be said is that it is \"not two\" or \"non-dual\": According to Renard, Alan Watts has been one of the main contributors to the popularisation of the non-monistic understanding of \"nondualism\".\n\nThe \"common-core thesis\" is criticised by \"diversity theorists\" such as S.T Katz and W. Proudfoot. They argue that \nThe idea of a common essence has been questioned by Yandell, who discerns various \"religious experiences\" and their corresponding doctrinal settings, which differ in structure and phenomenological content, and in the \"evidential value\" they present. Yandell discerns five sorts:\n\nThe specific teachings and practices of a specific tradition may determine what \"experience\" someone has, which means that this \"experience\" is not the \"proof\" of the teaching, but a \"result\" of the teaching. The notion of what exactly constitutes \"liberating insight\" varies between the various traditions, and even within the traditions. Bronkhorst for example notices that the conception of what exactly \"liberating insight\" is in Buddhism was developed over time. Whereas originally it may not have been specified, later on the Four Truths served as such, to be superseded by \"pratityasamutpada\", and still later, in the Hinayana schools, by the doctrine of the non-existence of a substantial self or person. And Schmithausen notices that still other descriptions of this \"liberating insight\" exist in the Buddhist canon.\n\nVarious\nMetaphors for nondualisms\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGeneral\n\nOrientalism\n\nBuddhism\n\nAdvaita Vedanta\n\n\n\n\n\n\nResources\n\nCriticism\n"}
{"id": "54343173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54343173", "title": "North American Society for Philosophical Hermeneutics", "text": "North American Society for Philosophical Hermeneutics\n\nThe North American Society for Philosophical Hermeneutics is an organization whose purpose is to advance the study of philosophical hermeneutics. It was established in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45703740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45703740", "title": "Pancha Bhoota", "text": "Pancha Bhoota\n\nPancha Bhoota or Pancha Maha-Bhoota (, ), five great elements, also five physical elements, is a group of five basic elements, which, according to Hinduism, \nis the basis of all cosmic creation. These elements are: Prithvi/Bhudevi (Hindi: पृथ्वी, Earth), Apas/Varuna/Jal (Hindi: अप्, Water), Agni (Hindi: अग्नि, Fire), Vayu (Hindi: वायु, Air), Aakash/Dyaus (Hindi: आकाश, Aether). These elements have different characteristics and these also account for different faculties of human experience. In \"ayurveda\" and Indian philosophy, the human body is considered to be made of these five elements. However, Cārvāka did not accept \"Akash\" as basic element as it is not tangible and according to him, there are only four basic elements. Buddhism also accepts four basic elements and \"Akash\" is left out. These five elements of Indian cosmological system are similar but not identical to five element theory used in East Asia.\n\nThe \"pancha bhoota\" are associated with a sense which is perceived by sense organ in human being. Below table gives details of associated sense, sense organ, and other attributes of elements.\n\nAccording to ayurveda and Yoga, \"Pancha Bhoota\" are associated with overall health of human being. Any disorder in human body indicates imbalance of one or more of these elements. \"Yoga Tattva Mudra Vijnana\" relates these five elements to five fingers of human being. Different \"Mudra\" were developed to balance these in human body which form the \"Hasta Mudra\" in yogic tradition and are used in Naturopathy.\n\nThe three \"dosha\"- three intrinsic tendencies, which, according to ayurveda are intrinsic in every human being, are representation of combination of these five elements in human body. The three \"Dosha\" have subtle positive essences which control the mind and body function.\n\nAccording to \"Yoga\", the aim of \"sadhana\" is to have mastery over oneself. This mastery can be achieved by mastering all the basic elements. The process of gaining mastery over these elements and purifying them is called \"Bhuta Shuddhi\".\n\"Pancha Bhoota Stalam\" is representation of \"pancha bhoota\" for yogic practice. People used to move from one temple\nto another and do \"sadhana\" on particular basic element.\n\nThe seven \"Chakra\" in human body are associated with these five elements. \n\n\"Hasta Mudra\" or hand posture is based on the \"panch bhootas\". The basic assumption is that all the five elements can be represented by five different fingers in human body as shown in the table below.\n\nVastu shastra emphasizes on the placement of five elements in specified direction and the balance of these elements determines the condition of the associated structure.\n\nThat is why, in an ideal home, the home itself is placed so that maximum load and weight is in the southwest area of the plot. Thus, there is maximum open space in the North, Northeast and East side of the plot (satisfying Vayu / Air and Akasha / Space)\n\nThe entrance to the plot (Main Gate), the Verandah (visitors lounge), and the Main Door is in the Northeast, for the cosmic benefits of Akasha and the purifying benefits of fresh air enter the house in abundance.\n\nTo the south of the Verandah is the Living Room, and to its south is 1 or 2 bedrooms (with / without bathrooms)\n\nTo the south or southwest of the room is the storeroom (for benefits of Prithvi / Bhumi), and in the Southeast corner of the home is the Kitchen (for here is the perfect balance of Akash (Space) and Agni (Fire)\n\nTo the south of the Kitchen is the backyard (but care should be taken to ensure there is NO DOOR in the south to the backyard, it will lead to loss of Vasthu energy)\n\nTo the west of the kitchen should be the Master bedroom (and care should be taken to ensure that bathroom IS NOT in the Southwest corner of the room)\n\nTo the north of the master bedroom will be the pooja room, and to its north will be a utility area / common bathroom or staircase room to the first floor etc\n\nCombination of pancha bhoota is associated with six human tastes as below.\n\n"}
{"id": "1140478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1140478", "title": "Postmodern theology", "text": "Postmodern theology\n\nPostmodern theology—also known as the continental philosophy of religion—is a philosophical and theological movement that interprets theology in light of post-Heideggerian continental philosophy, including phenomenology, post-structuralism, and deconstruction.\n\nPostmodern theology emerged in the 1980s and 1990s when a handful of philosophers who took philosopher Martin Heidegger as a common point of departure began publishing influential books on theology. Some of the more notable works of the era include Jean-Luc Marion's 1982 book \"God Without Being\", Mark C. Taylor's 1984 book \"Erring\", Charles Winquist's 1994 book \"Desiring Theology\", John D. Caputo's 1997 book \"The Prayers and Tears of Jacques Derrida\", and Carl Raschke's 2000 book \"The End of Theology\". \n\nThere are at least two branches of postmodern theology, each of which has evolved around the ideas of particular post-Heideggerian continental philosophers. Those branches are radical orthodoxy and weak theology. \n\nRadical orthodoxy is a branch of postmodern theology that has been influenced by the phenomenology of Jean-Luc Marion, Paul Ricœur, and Michel Henry, among others. \n\nAlthough radical orthodoxy is informally organized, its proponents often agree on a handful of propositions. First, there is no sharp distinction between reason on the one hand and faith or revelation on the other. In addition, the world is best understood through interactions with God, even though a full understanding of God is never possible. Those interactions include culture, language, history, technology, and theology. Further, God directs people toward truth, which is never fully available to them. In fact, a full appreciation of the physical world is only possible through a belief in transcendence. Finally, salvation is found through interactions with God and others.\n\nProminent advocates of radical orthodoxy include John Milbank, Catherine Pickstock, and Graham Ward.\n\nWeak theology is a branch of postmodern theology that has been influenced by the deconstructive thought of Jacques Derrida, including Derrida's description of a moral experience he calls \"the weak force.\" Weak theology rejects the idea that God is an overwhelming physical or metaphysical force. Instead, God is an unconditional claim without any force whatsoever. As a claim without force, the God of weak theology does not intervene in nature. As a result, weak theology emphasizes the responsibility of humans to act in this world here and now. John D. Caputo is a prominent advocate of the movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1983931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1983931", "title": "Predictive power", "text": "Predictive power\n\nThe concept of predictive power differs from explanatory and descriptive power (where phenomena that are already known are retrospectively explained or described by a given theory) in that it allows a prospective test of theoretical understanding.\n\nA classic example of the predictive power of a theory is the discovery of Neptune as a result of predictions made by mathematicians John Couch Adams and Urbain Le Verrier, based on Newton's theory of gravity.\n\nAnother example of the predictive power of theories or models is Dmitri Mendeleev's use of his periodic table to predict previously undiscovered chemical elements and their properties. Though largely correct, he misjudged the relative atomic masses of tellurium and iodine.\n\nMoreover, Charles Darwin used his knowledge of evolution by natural selection to predict that since a plant (\"Angraecum sesquipedale\") with a long spur in its flowers exists, a complementary animal with a 30 cm proboscis must also exist to feed on and pollinate it. Twenty years after his death, a form of hawk moth (\"Xanthopan morganii\") that did just that was found.\n\nAnother example of predictive power is the prediction of Einstein's theory of general relativity that the path of light would bend in the presence of a strong gravitational field. This was experimentally verified by an expedition to Sobral in Brazil and the Atlantic island of Príncipe to measure star positions during the solar eclipse of May 29, 1919, when observations made by the astrophysicist Arthur Eddington seemed to confirm Einstein's predictions. Although the measurements have been criticized by some as utilizing flawed methodology, modern reanalysis of the data suggests that Eddington's analysis of the data was accurate. Later, more precise measurements taken by radio interferometry confirmed the predictions to a high degree of accuracy.\n\nThe predictive power of a theory is closely related to applications. \n\nGeneral relativity not only predicts the bending of light, but also predicts several other phenomena. Recently, the calculation of proper time of satellites has been a successfully-measured prediction, now incorporated into the method used to calculate positions via GPS.\n\nIf a theory has no predictive power, it cannot be used for applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "5696216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5696216", "title": "Purva Mimamsa Sutras", "text": "Purva Mimamsa Sutras\n\nThe Mimamsa Sutra (, ) or the Purva Mimamsa Sutras (ca. 500-400 BC), written by Rishi Jaimini is one of the most important ancient Hindu philosophical texts. It forms the basis of Mimamsa, the earliest of the six orthodox schools (darshanas) of Indian philosophy. According to tradition, sage Jaimini was one of the disciples of sage Veda Vyasa, the author of Mahabharata.\n\nThe work is divided into twelve \"adhyaya\"s (chapters), which are further divided into sixty \"padas\" (sections).\n\nThe text provides rules for the interpretation of the Vedas and also provides philosophical justifications for the observance of Vedic rituals, by offering meaning and significance of Vedic rituals to attain Moksha.\n\nOver the centuries many commentaries were written on this text, most important being the \"Śabara Bhāṣya\" written by Śābara, the only extant commentary on all the 12 chapters of the Mimamsa Sutras of Jaimini.\n\nJaimini, in his \"Mimamsa Sutra\", presents material activity and its results as the whole of reality (vipanam rtam). He and later proponents of Karma-mimamsa philosophy teach that material existence is endless, that there is no liberation. For Mimamsas, the cycle of karma is perpetual, and the best one can aim for is higher birth among the Devas. Therefore, they hold that the whole purpose of the Vedas is to engage human beings in rituals for creating good karma, and consequently the mature soul's prime responsibility is to ascertain the exact meaning of the Vedas' sacrificial injunctions and to execute them. \nMimamsa Sutra consists of twelve chapters:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "507532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=507532", "title": "Relative clause", "text": "Relative clause\n\nA relative clause is a kind of subordinate clause that contains the element whose interpretation is provided by an antecedent on which the subordinate clause is grammatically dependent; that is, there is an anaphoric relation between the relativized element in the relative clause and antecedent on which it depends.\n\nTypically, a relative clause modifies a noun or noun phrase, and uses some grammatical device to indicate that one of the arguments within the relative clause has the same referent as that noun or noun phrase. For example, in the sentence \"I met a man who wasn't there\", the subordinate clause \"who wasn't there\" is a relative clause, since it modifies the noun \"man\", and uses the pronoun \"who\" to indicate that the same \"man\" is referred to within the subordinate clause (in this case, as its subject).\n\nIn many European languages, relative clauses are introduced by a special class of pronouns called \"relative pronouns\", such as \"who\" in the example just given. In other languages, relative clauses may be marked in different ways: they may be introduced by a special class of conjunctions called \"relativizers\"; the main verb of the relative clause may appear in a special morphological variant; or a relative clause may be indicated by word order alone. In some languages, more than one of these mechanisms may be possible.\n\nA bound relative clause, the type most often considered, qualifies an explicit element (usually a noun or noun phrase) appearing in the main clause, and refers back to that element by means of some explicit or implicit device within the relative clause.\n\nThe relative clause may also function as an \"embedded clause\" within a main (or higher-level) clause, thereby forming a \"matrix sentence\". The noun in the main clause that the relative clause modifies is called the \"head noun\", or (particularly when referred back to by a relative pronoun) the \"antecedent\".\n\nFor example, in the English sentence \"The man whom I saw yesterday went home\", the relative clause \"whom I saw yesterday\" modifies the head noun \"man\", and the relative pronoun \"whom\" refers back to the referent of that noun. The sentence is equivalent to the following two sentences: \"I saw a man yesterday. The man went home.\" Note that the shared argument need not fulfill the same role in both clauses; in this example the same man is referred to by the subject of the matrix clause, but the direct object of the relative clause.\n\nA free relative clause, on the other hand, does not have an explicit antecedent external to itself. Instead, the relative clause itself takes the place of an argument in the matrix clause. For example, in the English sentence \"I like what I see\", the clause \"what I see\" is a free relative clause, because it has no antecedent, but itself serves as the object of the verb \"like\" in the main clause. (An alternative analysis is that the free relative clause has zero as its antecedent.)\n\nBound relative clauses may or may not be restrictive. Whereas a non-restrictive or non-defining relative clause merely provides supplementary information, a restrictive or defining relative clause modifies the meaning of its head word (restricts its possible referent). For example:\n\nIn speaking it is natural to make slight pauses around non-restrictive clauses, and in English this is shown in writing by commas (as in the examples). However many languages do not distinguish the two types of relative clause in this way. Another difference in English is that only restrictive relative clauses may be introduced with \"that\" or use the \"zero\" relative pronoun (see English relative clauses for details).\n\nIn colloquial speech, a non-restrictive relative clause may have a whole sentence as its antecedent rather than a specific noun phrase; for example:\nHere, the context of the sentence (presumably) indicates that \"which\" refers not to the bed or the cat but to the entire proposition expressed in the main clause, namely the circumstance that the cat was allowed on the bed. Such constructions are discouraged in formal usage and in texts written for nonnative speakers because of the potential for ambiguity in parsing; a construction more accepted in formal usage would be \"The cat's being \"[or \"having been\"] \"allowed on the bed annoyed the dog.\"\n\nRelative clauses may be either finite clauses (as in the examples above) or non-finite clauses. An example of a non-finite relative clause in English is the infinitive clause \"on whom to rely\", in the sentence \"She is the person on whom to rely\".\n\nLanguages differ in many ways in how relative clauses are expressed:\n\nFor example, the English sentence \"The man that I saw yesterday went home\" can be described as follows:\n\nThe following sentences indicate various possibilities (only some of which are grammatical in English):\n\nThere are four main strategies for indicating the role of the shared noun phrase in the embedded clause. These are typically listed in order of the degree to which the noun in the relative clause has been reduced, from most to least:\n\n\nIn this strategy, there is simply a gap in the relative clause where the shared noun would go. This is normal in English, for example, and also in Chinese and Japanese. This is the most common type of relative clause, especially in verb-final languages with prenominal relative clauses, but is also widespread among languages with postnominal externally headed relative clauses.\n\nThere may or may not be any marker used to join the relative and main clauses. (Note that languages with a case-marked relative pronoun are technically not considered to employ the gapping strategy even though they do in fact have a gap, since the case of the relative pronoun indicates the role of the shared noun.) Often the form of the verb is different from that in main clauses and is to some degree nominalized, as in Turkish and in English reduced relative clauses.\n\nIn non-verb-final languages, apart from languages like Thai and Vietnamese with very strong politeness distinctions in their grammars, gapped relative clauses tend, however, to be restricted to positions high up in the accessibility hierarchy. With obliques and genitives, non-verb-final languages that do not have politeness restrictions on pronoun use tend to use pronoun retention. English is unusual in that \"all\" roles in the embedded clause can be indicated by gapping: e.g. \"I saw the man who is my friend\", but also (in progressively less accessible positions cross-linguistically, according to the \"accessibility hierarchy\" described below) \"... who I know\", \"... who I gave a book to\", \"... who I spoke with\", \"... who I run slower than\". Usually, languages with gapping disallow it beyond a certain level in the accessibility hierarchy, and switch to a different strategy at this point. Classical Arabic, for example, only allows gapping in the subject and sometimes the direct object; beyond that, a resumptive pronoun must be used. Some languages have no allowed strategies at all past a certain point—e.g. in many Austronesian languages, such as Tagalog, all relative clauses must have the shared noun serving the subject role in the embedded clause. In these languages, relative clauses with shared nouns serving \"disallowed\" roles can be expressed by passivizing the embedded sentence, thereby moving the noun in the embedded sentence into the subject position. This, for example, would transform \"The man who I gave a book to\" into \"The man who was given a book by me\". Generally, languages such as this \"conspire\" to implement general relativization by allowing passivization from \"all\" positions — hence a sentence equivalent to \"The man who is run slower than by me\" is grammatical. Note also that gapping is often used in conjunction with case-marked relative pronouns (since the relative pronoun indicates the case role in the embedded clause), but this is not necessary (e.g. Chinese and Japanese both using gapping in conjunction with an indeclinable complementizer).\n\nThis is in fact a type of gapped relative clause, but is distinguished by the fact that the role of the shared noun in the embedded clause is indicated indirectly by the case marking of the marker (the relative pronoun) used to join the main and embedded clauses. All languages which use relative pronouns have them in clause-initial position: though one could conceivably imagine a clause-final relative pronoun analogous to an adverbial subordinator in that position, they are unknown.\n\nNote that some languages have what are described as \"relative pronouns\" (in that they agree with some properties of the head noun, such as number and gender) but which do not actually indicate the case role of the shared noun in the embedded clause. Classical Arabic in fact has \"relative pronouns\" which are case-marked, but which agree in case with the \"head\" noun. Case-marked relative pronouns in the strict sense are almost entirely confined to European languages, where they are widespread except among the Celtic family and Indo-Aryan family. The influence of Spanish has led to their adaption by a very small number of Native American languages, of which the best-known are the Keresan languages.\n\nIn this type, the position relativized is indicated by means of a personal pronoun in the same syntactic position as would ordinarily be occupied by a noun phrase of that type in the main clause—known as a \"resumptive pronoun\". It is equivalent to saying \"The man who I saw him yesterday went home\". Pronoun retention is very frequently used for relativization of inaccessible positions on the accessibility hierarchy. In Persian and Classical Arabic, for example, resumptive pronouns are required when the embedded role is other than the subject or direct object, and optional in the case of the direct object. Resumptive pronouns are common in non-verb-final languages of Africa and Asia, and also used by the Celtic languages of northwest Europe and Romanian (\"Omul pe care l-am văzut ieri a mers acasă\"/\"The man who I saw him yesterday went home\"). They also occur in deeply embedded positions in English, as in \"That's the girl that I don't know what she did\", although this is sometimes considered non-standard.\n\nOnly a very small number of languages, of which the best known is Yoruba, have pronoun retention as their sole grammatical type of relative clause.\n\nIn the nonreduction type, unlike the other three, the shared noun occurs as a \"full-fledged noun phrase\" in the embedded clause, which has the form of a full independent clause. Typically, it is the head noun in the main clause that is reduced or missing. Some languages use relative clauses of this type with the normal strategy of embedding the relative clause next to the head noun. These languages are said to have \"internally headed\" relative clauses, which would be similar to the (ungrammatical) English structure \"[You see the girl over there] is my friend\" or \"I took [you see the girl over there] out on a date\". This is used, for example, in Navajo, which uses a special relative verb (as with some other Native American languages).\n\nA second strategy is the \"correlative\"-clause strategy used by Hindi and other Indo-Aryan languages, as well as Bambara. This strategy is equivalent to saying \"Which girl you see over there, she is my daughter\" or \"Which knife I killed my friend with, the police found that knife\". It is \"correlative\" because of the corresponding \"which ... that ...\" demonstratives or \"which ... she/he/it ...\" pronouns, which indicate the respective nouns being equated. Note that the shared noun can either be repeated entirely in the main clause or reduced to a pronoun. Note also that there is no need to front the shared noun in such a sentence. For example, in the second example above, Hindi would actually say something equivalent to \"I killed my friend with which knife, the police found that knife\".\n\nDialects of some European languages, such as Italian, do use the nonreduction type in forms that could be glossed in English as \"The man just passed us by, he introduced me to the chancellor here.\"\n\nIn general, however, nonreduction is restricted to verb-final languages, though it is more common among those that are head-marking.\n\nThe following are some of the common strategies for joining the two clauses:\n\nThe positioning of a relative clause before or after a head noun is related to the more general concept of branching in linguistics. Languages that place relative clauses after their head noun (so-called \"head-initial\" or \"VO\" languages) generally also have adjectives and genitive modifiers following the head noun, as well as verbs preceding their objects. French, Spanish and Arabic are prototypical languages of this sort. Languages that place relative clauses before their head noun (so-called \"head-final\" or \"OV\" languages) generally also have adjectives and genitive modifiers preceding the head noun, as well as verbs following their objects. Turkish and Japanese are prototypical languages of this sort. Not all languages fit so easily into these categories. English, for example, is generally head-first, but has adjectives preceding their head nouns, and genitive constructions with both preceding and following modifiers (\"the friend of my father\" vs. \"my father's friend\"). Chinese has the \"VO\" order, with verb preceding object, but otherwise is generally head-final.\n\nVarious possibilities for ordering are:\n\nThe antecedent of the relative clause (that is, the noun that is modified by it) can in theory be the subject of the main clause, or its object, or any other verb argument. In many languages, however, especially rigidly left-branching, dependent-marking languages with prenominal relative clauses, there are major restrictions on the role the antecedent may have \"in the relative clause\".\n\nEdward Keenan and Bernard Comrie noted that these roles can be ranked cross-linguistically in the following order from most accessible to least accessible:\n\nErgative–absolutive languages have a similar hierarchy:\n\nThis order is called the accessibility hierarchy. If a language can relativize positions lower in the accessibility hierarchy, it can always relativize positions higher up, but not vice versa. For example, Malagasy can relativize only subject and Chukchi only absolutive arguments, whilst Basque can relativize absolutives, ergatives and indirect objects, but not obliques or genitives or objects of comparatives. Similar hierarchies have been proposed in other circumstances, e.g. for pronominal reflexes.\n\nEnglish can relativize all positions in the hierarchy. Here are some examples of the NP and relative clause usage from English:\n\nSome other examples:\n\nLanguages that cannot relativize directly on noun phrases low in the accessibility hierarchy can sometimes use alternative voices to \"raise\" the relevant noun phrase so that it can be relativized. The most common example is the use of applicative voices to relativize obliques, but in such languages as Chukchi antipassives are used to raise ergative arguments to absolutive.\n\nFor example, a language that can relativize only subjects could say this:\nBut not:\nThese languages might form an equivalent sentence by passivization:\nNote that these passivized sentences get progressively more ungrammatical in English as they move down the accessibility hierarchy; the last two, in particular, are so ungrammatical as to be almost unparsable by English speakers. But languages with severe restrictions on which roles can be relativized are precisely those that can passivize almost any position, and hence the last two sentences would be normal in those languages.\n\nA further example is languages that can relativize only subjects and direct objects. Hence the following would be possible:\nThe other ungrammatical examples above would still be ungrammatical. These languages often allow an oblique object to be moved to the direct object slot by the use of the so-called \"applicative voice\", much as the passive voice moves an oblique object to the subject position. The above examples expressed in an applicative voice might be similar to the following (in not necessarily grammatical English):\n\nModern grammars may use the accessibility hierarchy to order productions—e.g. in Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar the hierarchy corresponds to the order of elements on the \"subcat\" list, and interacts with other principles in explanations of binding facts. The hierarchy also figures in\nLexical Functional Grammar, where it is known as Syntactic Rank or the Relational Hierarchy.\n\nIn English, a relative clause follows the noun it modifies. It is generally indicated by a relative pronoun at the start of the clause, although sometimes simply by word order. If the relative pronoun is the object of the verb in the relative clause, it comes at the beginning of the clause even though it would come at the end of an independent clause (\"He is the man \"whom\" I saw\", not \"He is the man I saw \"whom\"\").\n\nThe choice of relative pronoun can be affected by whether the clause modifies a human or non-human noun, by whether the clause is restrictive or not, and by the role (subject, direct object, or the like) of the relative pronoun in the relative clause.\n\n\nIn English, as in some other languages (such as French; see below), non-restrictive relative clauses are set off with commas, but restrictive ones are not:\n\n\nThe status of \"that\" as a relative pronoun is not universally agreed. Traditional grammars treat \"that\" as a relative pronoun, but not all contemporary grammars do: e.g. the Cambridge Grammar of the English Language (pp. 1056–7) makes a case for treating \"that\" as a subordinator instead of a relative pronoun; and the British National Corpus treats \"that\" as a subordinating conjunction even when it introduces relative clauses. One motivation for the different treatment of \"that\" is that there are differences between \"that\" and \"which\" (e.g., one can say \"in which\" but not \"in that\", etc.).\n\nThe system of relative pronouns in French is as complicated as, but similar in many ways to, the system in English.\n\nWhen the pronoun is to act as the direct object of the relative clause, ' is generally used, although ', which is inflected for grammatical gender and number, is sometimes used in order to give more precision. For example, any of the following is correct and would translate to \"I talked to his/her father and mother, whom I already knew\":\n\nHowever, in the first sentence, \"whom I already knew\" refers only to the mother; in the second, it refers to both parents; and in the third, as in the English sentence, it could refer either only to the mother, or to both parents.\n\nWhen the pronoun is to act as the subject of the relative clause, ' is generally used, though as before, ' may be used instead for greater precision. (This is less common than the use of \"\" with direct objects, however, since verbs in French often reflect the grammatical number of their subjects.)\n\nContrary to English, the relative pronoun can never be omitted in French, not even when the relative clause is embedded in another relative clause.\n\nWhen the pronoun is to act in a possessive sense, where the preposition \"de\" (of/from) would normally be used, the pronoun \"\" (\"whose\") is used, but does not act as a determiner for the noun \"possessed\":\n\nThis construction is also used in non-possessive cases where the pronoun replaces an object marked by \"\":\n\nMore generally, in modern French, \"\" can signal the topic of the following clause, without replacing anything in this clause:\n\nWhen the pronoun is to act as the object of a preposition (other than when ' is used), ' is generally used, though \"\" can be used if the antecedent is human.\n\nThere exists a further complication when the antecedent is a non-human indefinite pronoun. In that case, ' cannot be used because it must agree in gender with its head, and an indefinite pronoun has no gender. Instead, ', which usually means \"what\", is used.\n\nThe same happens when the antecedent is an entire clause, also lacking gender.\n\nThe preposition always appears before the pronoun, and the prepositions ' and ' (at/to) contract with ' to form ' and ', or with ' to form ' and '.\n\nAside from their highly inflected forms, German relative pronouns are less complicated than English. There are two varieties. The more common one is based on the definite article \"der\", \"die\", \"das\", but with distinctive forms in the genitive (\"dessen\", \"deren\") and in the dative plural (\"denen\"). Historically this is related to English \"that\". The second, which is more literary and used for emphasis, is the relative use of \"welcher\", \"welche\", \"welches\", comparable with English \"which\". As in most Germanic languages, including Old English, both of these varieties inflect according to gender, case and number. They take their gender and number from the noun which they modify, but the case from their function in their own clause.\n\nThe relative pronoun \"dem\" is neuter singular to agree with \"Haus\", but dative because it follows a preposition in its own clause. On the same basis, it would be possible to substitute the pronoun \"welchem\".\n\nHowever, German uses the uninflecting \"was\" ('what') as a relative pronoun when the antecedent is \"alles\", \"etwas\" or \"nichts\" ('everything', 'something', 'nothing'.).\n\nIn German, all relative clauses are marked with commas.\n\nAlternatively, particularly in formal registers, participles (both active and passive) can be used to embed relative clauses in adjectival phrases:\n\nUnlike English, which only permits relatively small participle phrases in adjectival positions (typically just the participle and adverbs), and disallows the use of direct objects for active participles, German sentences of this sort can embed clauses of arbitrary complexity.\n\nSee Relative pronouns in the Spanish pronouns article.\n\nIn Latin, relative clauses follow the noun phrases they modify, and are always introduced using relative pronouns. Relative pronouns, like other pronouns in Latin, agree with their antecedents in gender and number, but not in case: a relative pronoun's case reflects its role in the relative clause it introduces, while its antecedent's case reflects the antecedent's role in the clause that contains the relative clause. (Nonetheless, it is possible for the pronoun and antecedent to be in the same case.) For example:\n\nIn the former example, \"urbēs\" and \"quae\" both function as subjects in their respective clauses, so both are in the nominative case; and due to gender and number agreement, both are feminine and plural. In the latter example, both are still feminine and plural, and \"urbēs\" is still in the nominative case, but \"quae\" has been replaced by \"quās\", its accusative-case counterpart, to reflect its role as the direct object of \"vīdī\".\n\nFor more information on the forms of Latin relative pronouns, \"see\" the section on relative pronouns in the article on Latin declension.\n\nAncient Greek follows the same rule as Latin.\n\n\nThe Ancient Greek relative pronoun ὅς, ἥ, ὅ (\"hós, hḗ, hó\") is unrelated to the Latin word, since it derives from Proto-Indo-European : in Proto-Greek, \"y\" before a vowel usually changed to \"h\" (debuccalization). Cognates include Sanskrit \"yas, yā, yad\" (where \"o\" changed to short \"a\").\n\nThe Greek definite article ὁ, ἡ, τό (\"ho, hē, tó\") has a different origin, since it is related to Sanskrit \"sa, sā\" and Latin \"is-tud\".\n\nInformation that in English would be encoded with relative clauses could be represented with complex participles in Ancient Greek. This was made particularly expressive by the rich suite of participles available, with active and passive participles in present, past and future tenses. This is called the attributive participle\n\nSerbo-Croatian uses exactly the same principle as Latin does. The following sentences are the Latin examples translated to Serbo-Croatian (the same sentences apply to the Croatian, Serbian, Bosnian, and Montenegrin standard variants of the pluricentric language):\n\nIn the first sentence, \"koji\" is in the nominative, and in the second \"koje\" is in the accusative. Both words are two case forms of the same relative pronoun, that is inflicted for gender (here: masculine), number (here: plural), and case.\n\nAn alternative relativizing strategy is the use of the non-declinable word \"što\" 'that' to introduce a relative clause. This word is used together with a resumptive pronoun, i.e. a personal pronoun that agrees in gender and number with the antecedent, while its case form depends on its function in the relative clause. The resumptive pronoun never appears in subject function.\n\nRelative clauses are relatively frequent in modern Serbo-Croatian since they have expanded as attributes at the expense of the participles performing that function. The most frequently used relative pronoun is \"koji\". There are several ongoing changes concerning \"koji\". One of them is the spread of the genitive-accusative syncretism to the masculine inanimate of the pronoun. The cause lies in the necessity to disambiguate the subject and the object by morphological means. The nominative-accusative syncretism of the form \"koji\" is inadequate, so the genitive form \"kojeg\" is preferred:\n\nThe Celtic languages (at least the modern Insular Celtic languages) distinguish two types of relative clause: direct relative clauses and indirect relative clauses. A direct relative clause is used where the relativized element is the subject or the direct object of its clause (e.g. \"the man \"who\" saw me\", \"the man \"whom\" I saw\"), while an indirect relative clause is used where the relativized element is a genitival (e.g. \"the man \"whose\" daughter is in the hospital\") or is the object of a preposition (e.g. \"the man \"to whom\" I gave the book\"). Direct relative clauses are formed with a relative pronoun (unmarked for case) at the beginning; a gap (in terms of syntactic theory, a trace, indicated by (\"t)\" in the examples below) is left in the relative clause at the pronoun's expected position.\n\n\nThe direct relative particle \"a\" is not used with \"mae\" (\"is\") in Welsh; instead the form \"sydd\" or \"sy'\" is used:\n\nThere is also a defective verb \"piau\" (usually lenited to \"biau\"), corresponding to \"who own(s)\":\n\nIndirect relative clauses are formed with a relativizer at the beginning; the relativized element remains \"in situ\" in the relative clause.\n\n\nNote that although both the Irish relative pronoun and the relativizer are 'a', the relative pronoun triggers lenition of a following consonant, while the relativizer triggers eclipsis (see Irish initial mutations).\n\nBoth direct and indirect relative particles can be used simply for emphasis, often in answer to a question or as a way of disagreeing with a statement. For instance, the Welsh example above, \"y dyn a welais\" means not only \"the man whom I saw\", but also \"it was the man (and not anyone else) I saw\"; and \"y dyn y rhois y llyfr iddo\" can likewise mean \"it was the man (and not anyone else) to whom I gave the book\".\n\nIn Biblical Hebrew, relative clauses were headed with the word \"asher\", which could be either a relative pronoun or a relativizer. In later times, \"asher\" became interchangeable with the prefix \"she-\" (which is also used as a conjunction, with the sense of English \"that\"), and in Modern Hebrew, this use of \"she-\" is much more common than \"asher\", except in some formal, archaic, or poetic writing. In meaning, the two are interchangeable; they are used regardless of whether the clause is modifying a human, regardless of their grammatical case in the relative clause, and regardless of whether the clause is restrictive.\n\nFurther, because Hebrew does not generally use its word for \"is\", \"she-\" is used to distinguish adjective phrases used in epithet from adjective phrases used in attribution:\n\nSince 1994, the official rules of Modern Hebrew (as determined by the Academy of the Hebrew Language) have stated that relative clauses are to be punctuated in Hebrew the same way as in English (described above). That is, non-restrictive clauses are to be set off with commas, while restrictive clauses are not:\n\nNonetheless, many, perhaps most, speakers of Modern Hebrew still use the pre-1994 rules, which were based on the German rules (described above). Except for the simple adjective-phrase clauses described above, these speakers set off all relative clauses, restrictive or not, with commas:\n\nOne major difference between relative clauses in Hebrew and those in (for example) English is that in Hebrew, what might be called the \"regular\" pronoun is not always suppressed in the relative clause. To reuse the prior example:\n\nMore specifically, if this pronoun is the subject of the relative clause, it is always suppressed. If it is the direct object, then it is usually suppressed, though it is also correct to leave it in. (If it is suppressed, then the special preposition \"et\", used to mark the direct object, is suppressed as well.) If it is the object of a preposition, it must be left in, because in Hebrew—unlike in English—a preposition cannot appear without its object. When the pronoun is left in, \"she-\" might more properly be called a relativizer than a relative pronoun.\n\nThe Hebrew relativizer \"she-\" ‘that’ \"might be a shortened form of the Hebrew relativizer \"‘asher\" ‘that’, which is related to Akkadian \"‘ashru\" ‘place’ (cf. Semitic *\"‘athar\") Alternatively, Hebrew \"‘asher\" derived from \"she-\", or it was a convergence of Proto-Semitic \"dhu\" (cf. Aramaic \"dī\") and \"‘asher\" [...] Whereas Israeli \"she-\" functions both as complementizer and relativizer, \"ashér\" can only function as a relativizer.\"\n\nIn Modern Standard and Classical Arabic there is a relative pronoun (in Arabic: ) \"allaḏī\" (masculine singular), feminine singular \"allatī\", masculine plural \"allaḏīna\", feminine plural \"allawātī\", masculine dual \"allaḏānī\" (nominative) / \"allaḏayni\" (accusative and genitive), feminine dual \"allatānī\" (nom.) / \"allataynī\" (acc. and gen.).\n\nIts usage has two specific rules: it agrees with the antecedent in gender, number and case, and it is used only if the antecedent is definite. If the antecedent is indefinite, no relative pronoun is used. The former is called \"jumlat sila\" (conjunctive sentence) while the latter is called \"jumlat sifa\" (descriptive sentence).\n\nIn Colloquial Arabic the multiple forms of the relative pronoun have been levelled in favour of a single form, a simple conjunction, which in most dialects is \"illi\", and is never omitted. So in Palestinian Arabic the above sentences would be:\n\n\nAs in Hebrew, the regular pronoun referring to the antecedent is repeated in the relative clause - literally, \"the boy whom I saw him in class...\" (the \"-hu\" in \"ra'aituhu\" and the \"-ō\" in \"shuftō\"). The rules of suppression in Arabic are identical to those of Hebrew: obligatory suppression in the case that the pronoun is the subject of the relative clause, obligatory retention in the case that the pronoun is the object of a preposition, and at the discretion of the speaker if the pronoun is the direct object. The only difference from Hebrew is that, in the case of the direct object, it is preferable to retain the pronoun rather than suppress it.\n\nJapanese does not employ relative pronouns to relate relative clauses to their antecedents. Instead, the relative clause directly modifies the noun phrase as an attributive verb, occupying the same syntactic space as an attributive adjective (before the noun phrase).\n\nIn fact, since so-called \"i-adjectives\" in Japanese are technically intransitive stative verbs, it can be argued that the structure of the first example (with an adjective) is the same as the others. A number of \"adjectival\" meanings, in Japanese, are customarily shown with relative clauses consisting solely of a verb or a verb complex:\n\nOften confusing to speakers of languages which use relative pronouns are relative clauses which would in their own languages require a preposition with the pronoun to indicate the semantic relationship among the constituent parts of the phrase.\n\nHere, the preposition \"in\" is missing from the Japanese (\"missing\" in the sense that the corresponding postposition would be used with the main clause verb in Japanese) Common sense indicates what the meaning is in this case, but the \"missing preposition\" can sometimes create ambiguity.\n\nIn this case, (1) is the context-free interpretation of choice, but (2) is possible with the proper context.\n\nWithout more context, both (1) and (2) are equally viable interpretations of the Japanese.\n\nNote: Spaces are not ordinarily used in Japanese, but they are supplemented here to facilitate parsing by non-speakers of the language.\n\nIn Georgian, there are two strategies for forming relative clauses. The first is similar to that of English or Latin: the modified noun is followed by a relativizer that inflects for its embedded case and may take a postposition. The relativized noun may be preceded by a determiner.\n\nA second, more colloquial, strategy is marked by the invariant particle რომ \"rom\". This particle is generally the second word of the clause, and since it does not decline, is often followed by the appropriately cased third-person pronoun to show the relativized noun's role in the embedded clause. A determiner precedes the relativized noun, which is also usually preceded by the clause as a whole.\n\nSuch relative clauses may be internally headed. In such cases, the modified noun moves into the clause, taking the appropriate declension for the its role therein (thus eliminating the need for the third person pronouns in the above examples), and leaves behind the determiner (which now functions as a pronoun) in the matrix clause.\n\nTagalog uses the gapping strategy to form relative clauses, with the complementiser, \"na\" / \"=ng\" 'that', separating the head, which is the noun being modified, from the actual relative clause. In (1a) below, \"lalaki\" 'man' serves as the head, while \"nagbigay ng bigas sa bata\" 'gave rice to the child' is the relative clause.\n\nThe gap inside the relative clause corresponds to the position that the noun acting as the head would have normally taken, had it been in a declarative sentence. In (1a), the gap is in subject position within the relative clause. This corresponds to the subject position occupied by \"ang lalaki\" 'the man' in the declarative sentence in (1b).\n\nThere is a constraint in Tagalog on the position from which a noun can be relativised and in which a gap can appear: A noun has to be the subject within the relative clause in order for it to be relativised. The phrases in (2) are ungrammatical because the nouns that have been relativised are not the subjects of their respective relative clauses. In (2a), the gap is in direct object position, while in (2b), the gap is in indirect object position.\n\nThe correct Tagalog translations for the intended meanings in (2) are found in (3), where the verbs have been passivised in order to raise the logical direct object in (3a) and the logical indirect object in (3b) to subject position. (Tagalog can have more than one passive voice form for any given verb.)\n\nTagalog relative clauses can be left-headed, as in (1a) and (3), right-headed, as in (4), or internally headed, as in (5).\n\nIn (4), the head, \"lalaki\" 'man', is found after or to the right of the relative clause, \"nagbigay ng bigas sa bata\" 'gave rice to the child'. In (5), the head is found in some position inside the relative clause. Note that when the head appears to the right of or internally to the relative clause, the complementiser appears to the left of the head. When the head surfaces to the left of the relative clause, the complementiser surfaces to the right of the head.\n\nThere are exceptions to the subjects-only constraint to relativisation mentioned above. The first involves relativising the possessor of a noun phrase within the relative clause.\n\nIn (6), the head, \"bata\" 'child', is the owner of the injured finger. Note that \"ang daliri\" 'the finger' is the subject of the verb, \"nasugatan\" 'was injured'.\n\nAnother exception involves relativising the oblique noun phrase.\n\nWhen an oblique noun phrase is relativised, as in (7a), \"na\" 'that', the complementiser that separates the head from the relative clause, is optional. The relative clause itself is also composed differently. In the examples in (1a), and in (3) to (6), the relative clauses are simple declaratives that contain a gap. However, the relative clause in (7a) looks more like an indirect question, complete with the interrogative complementiser, \"kung\" 'if', and a pre-verbally positioned WH-word like \"saan\" 'where', as in (7b). The sentence in (7c) is the declarative version of the relative clause in (7a), illustrating where the head, \"ospital\" 'hospital', would have been \"before\" relativisation. The question in (7d) shows the direct question version of the subordinate indirect question in (7b).\n\nRelative clauses in Hawaiian are avoided unless they are short.\n\nIf in English a relative clause would have a copula and an adjective, in Hawaiian the antecedent is simply modified by the adjective: \"The honest man\" instead of \"the man who is honest\". If the English relative clause would have a copula and a noun, in Hawaiian an appositive is used instead: \"Paul, an apostle\" instead of \"Paul, who was an apostle\".\n\nIf the English relative pronoun would be the subject of an intransitive or passive verb, in Hawaiian a participle is used instead of a full relative clause: \"the people fallen\" instead of \"the people who fell\"; \"the thing given\" instead of \"the thing that was given\". But when the relative clause's antecedent is a person, the English relative pronoun would be the subject of the relative clause, and the relative clause's verb is active and transitive, a relative clause is used and it begins with the relative pronoun \"nana\": \"The one who me (past) sent\" = \"the one who sent me\".\n\nIf in English a relative pronoun would be the object of a relative clause, in Hawaiian the possessive form is used so as to treat the antecedent as something possessed: \"the things of me to have seen\" = \"the things that I saw\"; \"Here is theirs to have seen\" = This is what they saw\".\n\nIn Mandarin Chinese, the relative clause is similar to other adjectival phrases in that it precedes the noun that it modifies, and ends with the relative particle \"de\". If the relative clause is missing a subject but contains an object (in other words, if the verb is transitive), the main-clause noun is the implied subject of the relative clause:\n\nIf the object but not the subject is missing from the relative clause, the main-clause noun is the implied object of the relative clause:\n\nIf both the subject and the object are missing from the relative clause, then the main-clause noun could either be the implied subject or the implied object of the relative clause; sometimes which is intended is clear from the context, especially when the subject or object of the verb must be human and the other must be non-human:\n\nBut sometimes ambiguity arises when it is not clear from the context whether the main-clause noun is intended as the subject or the object of the relative clause:\n\nHowever, the first meaning (in which the main-clause noun is the subject) is usually intended, as the second can be unambiguously stated using a passive voice marker:\n\nSometimes a relative clause has both a subject and an object specified, in which case the main-clause noun is the implied object of an implied preposition in the relative clause:\n\nIt is also possible to include the preposition explicitly in the relative clause, but in that case it takes a pronoun object (a personal pronoun with the function of a relative pronoun):\n\nFree relative clauses are formed in the same way, omitting the modified noun after the particle \"de\". As with bound relative clauses, ambiguity may arise; for example, 吃的 \"chī de\" \"eat (particle)\" may mean \"that which is eaten\", i.e. \"food\", or \"those who eat\".\n\nIn Hawaiian Creole English, an English-based creole also called Hawaiian Pidgin or simply Pidgin, relative clauses work in a way that is similar to, but not identical to, the way they work in English. As in English, a relative pronoun that serves as the object of the verb in the relative clause can optionally be omitted: For example,\n\ncan also be expressed with the relative pronoun omitted, as\n\nHowever, relative pronouns serving as the subject of a relative clause show more flexibility than in English; they can be included, as is mandatory in English, they can be omitted, or they can be replaced by another pronoun. For example, all of the following can occur and all mean the same thing:\n\nIn Gullah, an English-based creole spoken along the southeastern coast of the United States, no relative pronoun is normally used for the subject of a relative clause. For example:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11335565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11335565", "title": "Richard Arneson", "text": "Richard Arneson\n\nRichard J. Arneson is an American philosopher specializing in political philosophy who has taught at the University of California, San Diego since 1973. He chaired the department during 1992–1996 and served as graduate adviser. In 1996, he also served as visiting professor in the ethics, politics, and economics program at Yale University. Arneson earned his PhD in philosophy from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1975. His work has largely focused on utilitarianism and on luck egalitarianism. He is also a proponent of prioritarianism.\n\nRichard Arneson has also critiqued Marxism in great depth; he argued that capitalism was exploitative for more complex reasons than the labour theory of value accounted for. He argued that surplus transfer was only wrong when it was the result of an unequal distribution of social goods. Therefore, under capitalism, the majority of exchanges are inherently exploitative because the benefits end up in the hands of those who do not need it. Nonetheless, surplus transfer is legitimate when it arises independently or when it is used to compensate the unequal distribution of natural endowments and wealth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49682842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49682842", "title": "Right to be heard", "text": "Right to be heard\n\nThe right to be heard (also children's participation) is a child rights principle as defined by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. According to Article 12 of the Convention, children have the right to express their views in all matters affecting them and their views have to be given due weight in accordance with the age and maturity of the child. This right applies equally to children’s participation in social and political matters as well as in judicial and administrative proceedings. As a general principle, the child’s right to be heard reflects the concept of children‘s ‘agency’, viewing children not only as vulnerable persons in need of special protection, but also as informed decision makers, rights holders and active members of society.\n\nThe right to be heard from Article 12 relates closely to other articles under the Convention, which together form the so-called ‘participatory rights’ of children and underline the understanding of children as citizens who are rights holders. These articles include:\n\nTrust is a key element of encouraging a child to express their views. Strategies for building trust with children include: \n\nIn the cases of younger children or children with impaired cognitive skills, the child’s participation can be through drawing or play, or by observing of the child’s behaviour with family members and care staff. Adapting the language to the age and development of the child helps insure the child can understand the issues at stake and express her or his feelings and views.\n\nNational laws usually define age limits for children to have the right to contact social services on their own initiative, to be heard in judicial and administrative procedures, to act as a litigant or party to a case, to appeal against decisions, and to complain and seek redress. The age limits defined under national law differ among countries and, in some cases, also between the various laws applying to different groups of children and contexts. The right of younger children to be heard is often not addressed in the same way as the right of adolescents. Special measures nationally can ensure younger children are not excluded from exercising their right to be heard.\n\nFor some children, the gender of the interviewer, interpreter, cultural mediator, guardian or care staff may change their willingness to express themselves. The may depend on the experiences that children have with men and women in their homes and communities, and if in migration, during their journey or in places of destination. Traditional gender roles and relations can also play a role. The gender identity of the child should be respected.\n\nMany children do not want to tell their story to the authorities because they fear it might not be in their interest and might lead to unwanted consequences, such as being returned. Children might have been instructed or even threatened by third persons to only tell parts of their story, and the child might not trust the police and local authorities can protect them. A reception system that respects and upholds the dignity of the child can foster a sense of trust.\n\nInterpreters can influence the information gathering process in transnational child protection cases, asylum procedures and criminal investigations as they affect how the child’s disclosure is being understood and perceived. Inaccurate translation might compromise the child’s statement to the effect that decisions are taken on the basis of incorrect information. This relates not only to the content translated but also to the style and semantic choices made by the child and how these are rendered by the interpreters.\n\nIn addition to training and recruiting qualified interpreters, the following measures protect the child's right to be heard: \n\nChild victims of crime have a right to be protected from harm and secondary victimisation during investigations and proceedings. The standards for are described in the UN Guidelines on Justice in Matters Involving Child Victims and Witnesses of Crime, the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse and the 2011 EU Anti-Trafficking Directive. The following protect children from harm in investigations and proceedings: \n\nThe Children’s House model is a good practice for conducting forensic interviews and gathering evidence from child victims of crime., the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse and the 2011 EU Anti-Trafficking Directive.\n\nInterview style and the type of questions asked affect the quality of the interview. They can influence the child’s willingness to disclose information. They can also influence the type and quality of information, and the level of detail, that the child is able and willing to share. Strategies for interviewers and interpreters to lessen this include prioritising open questions and avoiding closed and focused questions, suggestive prompts and leading questions; remaining neutral; be open and empathic; avoid criticism and confrontations.\n"}
{"id": "51520414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51520414", "title": "Roderick D. Bush", "text": "Roderick D. Bush\n\nRoderick Douglas Bush (November 12, 1945 – December 5, 2013) was an U.S. born sociologist, social activist, author, public intellectual author and academic primarily concerning the African-American Civil Rights Movement (1865–95).\n\nBorn on November 12, 1945, Bush grew up in the \"Jim Crow\" South before moving to Rochester, New York, as a child. As a teen, he attended Howard University and became involved in the Black Power Movement. He attended Kansas University, where he began his doctoral work. He left to become a full-time political activist only to return to academia in 1998. He earned his PH.D from Binghamton University in 1992. He served as a faculty member at St. John's University as a Sociology Professor.\n\nBush died on December 5, 2013.\n\nAt a collegiate level he taught and specialized in race and ethnicity, the black experience, social movements, world-systems studies, globalization, social inequality, social change, urban sociology, community organizing, political sociology.\n\nIn the book, 2015 U.S. Higher Education Faculty Awards, Vol. 1, Bush won the best overall faculty member, best researcher/scholar, and most helpful to students.\n\nAmerican Sociological Association Marxist Section Lifetime Achievement Award 2014 \nProfessor-Service to Students Seton Hall University 9/97-5/98 \nUniversity Research Fellow Seton Hall University 6/97-8/97 \nFord Foundation PostDoctoral \nFellow Seton Hall University 9/93-8/94 \nUniversity Fellow SUNY Binghamton 1/88-6/88 \nU.S. Public Health Fellow University of Kansas 9/67-6/70 \nNational Competitive Scholar Howard University 9/63-6/67 \nRalph Bunche Scholarship Howard University 9/63\n\nBush was part of a working group of authors in the book \"Race in the Age of Obama\", and a contributor to the book \"Transnational Africa and Globalization\".\nHe was the author of the books \"We are Not What We Seem: Black Nationalism and Class Struggle in the American Century\", \"The New Black Vote: Politics and Power in Four American Cities\", \"The End of White World Supremacy: Black Internationalism and the Problem of the Color Line\". He also co-authored with Melanie E. L. Bush \"Tensions in the American Dream: Rhetoric, Reverie or Reality?\"\n"}
{"id": "7540931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7540931", "title": "Society of Christian Philosophers", "text": "Society of Christian Philosophers\n\nThe Society of Christian Philosophers (SCP) was founded in 1978. Past Presidents include William Alston, Robert Merrihew Adams, Alvin Plantinga, Marilyn McCord Adams, George I. Mavrodes, Peter van Inwagen, Nicholas Wolterstorff, Eleonore Stump, C. Stephen Evans, Robert Audi, Linda Zagzebski, and Michael C. Rea. Michael Bergmann of Purdue University is currently President of SCP, Justin McBrayer of Fort Lewis College is Executive Director, and Kevin Timpe of Calvin College is Treasurer.\n\nThe Society is open to anyone interested in philosophy who considers himself or herself a Christian. Membership is not restricted to any particular \"school\" of philosophy or to any branch of Christianity, nor to professional or academic philosophers.\n\nMeetings of the Society are regularly held in conjunction with the American Catholic Philosophical Association, the Eastern, Central, and Pacific Divisions of the American Philosophical Association, and the Canadian Philosophical Association, and at the World Congress of Philosophy.\n\nThe Society also publishes a quarterly journal, Faith and Philosophy, which addresses philosophical issues from a Christian perspective. \n\n"}
{"id": "28592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28592", "title": "Specialization (logic)", "text": "Specialization (logic)\n\nSpecialisation, (or specialization) is an important way to generate propositional knowledge, by applying general knowledge, such as the theory of gravity, to specific instances, such as \"when I release this apple, it will fall to the floor\". Specialisation is the opposite of generalisation.\n\nConcept B is a specialisation of concept A if and only if:\n\n"}
{"id": "28483518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28483518", "title": "Svetozar Stojanović", "text": "Svetozar Stojanović\n\nSvetozar \"Sveta\" Stojanović (Serbian Cyrillic: Светозар Стојановић) (18 October 1931 – 7 May 2010) was a Serbian philosopher and political theorist.\n\nStojanović was an intellectual in the European tradition, an academic who contributed to philosophical theory and engaged in practical politics. He bridged the divide between the more grand and speculative Continental philosophy and analytic Anglo-American ethical theory. His doctoral dissertation on Contemporary Meta-ethics was grounded on his study of ordinary language analysis at the University of Oxford and later he met weekly at the University of Michigan to discuss ethical issues with William Frankena, Richard Brandt and Charles Stevenson. But the focus of his important contributions to philosophy was always critical Marxism, Marxism creatively interpreted as a critique of social institutions destructive of humanistic values. He is best known for his rejection of the dictatorship of the proletariat and advocacy of a democratic socialism.\n\nSvetozar Stojanović was born in 1931 in Kragujevac, Kingdom of Yugoslavia (present day Serbia) and received a PhD in philosophy from the University of Belgrade in 1962. Together with seven other professors and teachers, called The Praxis Group, he was expelled from the University of Belgrade in January 1975 for dissident activities during Josip Broz Tito's regime in Yugoslavia. He returned to the University in the early nineties as socialist Yugoslavia was falling apart. In 1992 and 1993 he served as a special adviser to former Yugoslav President Dobrica Ćosić.\n\nStojanović was a longtime critic of Slobodan Milošević, and one of the protagonists in the October 2000 Serbian democratic revolution which culminated in the overthrow of Milošević. He was appointed to the Commission for Truth and Reconciliation by former Yugoslav President Vojislav Koštunica, and later became a member of the Council for Foreign Relations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Serbia.\n\nStojanovic was a member of the Council for Secular Humanism's International Academy of Humanism, a member of the Paris International Institute of Philosophy (\"Institut International de Philosophie\") and the Academy of Humanistic Studies in Moscow. In 1973 he was one of the signers of the \"Humanist Manifesto II\". He was co-chairman of the International Humanist and Ethical Union, 1985-87. He was a long-time director of the Institute for Philosophy and Social Theory in Belgrade and the member of the governing board of Korčula Summer School. Stojanović was a visiting professor at many prominent universities in the United States, Germany, Great Britain, Austria, and India.\n\nWith Djuro Kovacevic, another Serbian political theorist, Stojanović was a co-founder and president of the Serbian-American Center in Belgrade, which developed into the Center for National Strategy, and the Forum for Serbian-American Dialogue and Cooperation.\n\nHe was the chief editor of \"Praxis International\" from 1987–1990 and, most recently, a member of the editorial council of \"Philosophy & Social Criticism\", based in Boston.\n\nStojanović authored seven books, four brochures, and 130 journal articles. His works have been translated into fourteen languages, including English, German, French, Russian, Spanish, and Japanese. Books in English include: \"Between Ideals and Reality: A Critique of Socialism and Its Future\", Oxford University Press, 1973; \"In Search of Democracy in Socialism\", Prometheus Books, Buffalo, NY, 1981; \"From Marxism and Bolshevism to Gorbachev\", Prometheus Books, 1988; \"The Fall of Yugoslavia: Why Communism Failed\", Prometheus Books, 1997; and \"Serbia: The Democratic Revolution\", Humanity Books, Buffalo, NY, 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "1407832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1407832", "title": "The Concept of Law", "text": "The Concept of Law\n\nThe Concept of Law () is the most famous work of the legal philosopher H. L. A. Hart. It was first published in 1961 and develops Hart's theory of legal positivism (the view that laws are rules made by human beings and that there is no inherent or necessary connection between law and morality) within the framework of analytic philosophy. In this work, Hart sets out to write an essay of descriptive sociology and analytical jurisprudence. \"The Concept of Law\" provides an explanation to a number of traditional jurisprudential questions such as \"what is law?\", \"must laws be rules?\", and \"what is the relation between law and morality?\". Hart answers these by placing law into a social context while at the same time leaving the capability for rigorous analysis of legal terms, which in effect \"awakened English jurisprudence from its comfortable slumbers\". As a result Hart's book has remained \"one of the most influential text of analytical legal philosophy\", as well as \"the most successful work of analytical jurisprudence ever to appear in the common law world\"\n\n\"The Concept of Law\" emerged from a set of lectures Hart delivered in 1952. The lectures were preceded by Hart's Holmes lecture, \"Positivism and the Separation of Law and Morals\" at Harvard Law School. The book developed a sophisticated view of legal positivism.\n\nAmong the ideas developed in the book are:\n\nThe starting point for the discussion is Hart's dissatisfaction with John Austin's \"command theory\": a jurisprudential concept that holds that law is command backed by threat and is meant to be ubiquitous in its application. Hart likens Austin's theory to the role of a gunman in a bank and tries to establish the differences between the gunman's orders and those made by law. (For instance, the gunman forces us to obey but we may not feel inclined to obey him. Presumably, obedience to the law comes with a different feeling.) \n\nHart identifies three such important differences: content, origin, and range. In terms of content, not all laws are imperative or coercive. Some are facilitative, allowing us to create contracts and other legal relations.\n\nAustin believed that every legal system had to have a sovereign who creates the law (origin) while remaining unaffected by it (range), such as the bank scene's gunman, who is the only source of commands and who is not subject to other's commands. Hart argues that this is an inaccurate description of law, noting that laws may have several sources and legislators are very often subject to the laws they create. Hart lets us know that laws are much broader in scope than coercive orders, contrary to the \"command theory\" of Austin. Frequently laws are enabling and so allow citizens to carry out authoritative acts such as the making of wills or contracts which have legal effect.\n\nHart draws a distinction between a social habit (which people follow habitually but where breaking the habit does not bring about opprobrium - going to the cinema on Thursday for example) and a social rule (where breaking the rule is seen as wrong - neglecting to take off one's hat upon entering a church, for example). We feel in some sense bound by social rules and laws frequently appear to be types of social rule. \n\nThere are two perspectives to this: the external aspect, which is the independently observable fact that people do tend to obey the rule with regularity, and the internal aspect which is the feeling by an individual of being in some sense obligated to follow the rule, otherwise known as the critical reflective attitude. It is from this internal sense that the law acquires its normative quality. The obedience by the populace of a rule is called efficacy. No law can be said to be efficacious unless followed by the majority of the populace. Though an average citizen in a modern state with a developed legal system may feel the internal aspect and be compelled to follow the laws, it is more important for the officials of the society/peoples to have the internal aspect since it is up to them to follow the constitutional provisions which, if they wish, could ignore without accountability. Yet, the officials must use the internal aspect and accept the standards as guiding their behaviour in addition to also guiding the behaviour of other officials.\n\nHart believed law is the union of primary rules (rules of conduct) and secondary rules (empowering rules). \n\n\"Primary rules\" are rules, or laws, that govern general societal conduct. Thus, \"primary rules\" construct legal obligations and consequences when they are disobeyed. A good example of a \"primary rule\" is the law against murder; it prohibits a person from killing and attaches consequences for committing, attempting to commit, and conspiring to commit the crime.\n\n\"Secondary rules\" confer power to create sovereignty; they also confer the power to change, modify, or enforce primary (and secondary) rules. Secondary rules combat the three major issues of legal systems that \"primary rules\" can't–(1) uncertainty of the law, (2) efficiency of the law, and (3) static \"quality\" of the law. Each kind of \"secondary rule\" addresses a separate one of those three issues, yet all are interdependent. Hart separates secondary rules into three types–the rules of recognition, the rules of change, and the rules of adjudication.\n\nHart states that the remedy for the uncertainty of the regime of primary rules is a \"rule of recognition\". The rule of recognition is a collection of standards and requisites that govern the validity of all rules; thus, the rule of recognition confers power to new rules by validating them. For a rule to be valid is to recognize it as passing all the tests provided by the rule of recognition. \n\nThere are no legal systems that can be classified as pareto optimal. The next best thing is to make sure that the system does not remain at a static quality but instead is dynamic and progressive. The remedy for the static quality of the regime of \"primary rules\" are \"rules of change\". Generally, rules of change confer and prohibit power of the creation, extinction and alteration of primary and secondary rules. Rules of change range in complexity: “the powers conferred may be unrestricted or limited in various ways: and the rules may, besides specifying the persons who are to legislate, define in more or less rigid terms the procedure to be followed in legislation.” As mentioned earlier, rules of change are interdependent with the other rules. Hart emphasizes the “close connection between the rules of change and the rules of recognition.” Where rules of change exist, rules of recognition \"ʺwill necessarily incorporate a reference to legislation as an identifying feature of the rules, though it need not refer to all the details of procedure involved in legislation.” \n\n\"Rules of adjudication\" were intended to remedy the inefficiency of its diffused social pressure. Rules of adjudication empower individuals to make authoritative determinations of the question whether, on a particular occasion, a primary rule has been broken. Rules of adjudication govern the election and procedure of the judiciary. However, intermingled with who adjudicates is what laws they adjudicate. Under that logic, rules of adjudication, like rules of change, must also be supplemented by rules of recognition of some sort. Thus, “the rule which confers jurisdiction will also be a rule of recognition, identifying the primary rules through the judgments of the courts and these judgments will become a 'source' of law.”\n\n"}
{"id": "29272672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29272672", "title": "Thilo Maatsch", "text": "Thilo Maatsch\n\nThilo Friedrich Maatsch (born August 13, 1900 in Braunschweig, died March 20, 1983 in Königslutter) was a German artist and an exponent of abstract art, constructivism and concrete art.\n\nWhilst visiting exhibitions in his youth he came in touch with art. Especially the upcoming modernism affected him and his work of art a lot. 18 years after his \nbirth he founded with Johannes Molzahn and Rudolf Jahns the \n\"Gesellschaft der Freunde junger Kunst\" (Society of the adorer of young art) which were joined by several distinguished artist as e.g. Lyonel Feininger and Paul Klee. The collector Otto Ralfs supported this organisation and Kandinsky designed the signet. \nMaatsch's circle of friends and acquaintances ranked among the aforementioned \nartists, László Moholy-Nagy, William Wauer and Lothar Schreyer. \nKandinsky nurtured Maatsch's talent and he admired him like his own \nfather. Due to financial problems it was not possible for Maatsch to study at the Bauhaus, because of his young family he also had to nourish. \nBut his desire for studies remained not any longer unfulfilled. Moholy-Nagy, Kandinsky and Klee permitted him to study in their studios. Most probably Kandinsky together with the Bauhaus figuered out a permission for Maatsch to attend Bauhaus in Berlin and Weimar in his holidays (he worked as a teacher in Königslutter) without paying fees.\n\nIn 1925 he joined the November Group and from this year onwards till 1932 he participated annually in the renowned \"Große Berliner Kunstausstellung\". In 1927 Herwarth Walden, one of the most important discoverers and promoters of German avant-garde art in the early twentieth century, arranged for Maatsch an exhibition in his prestigious gallery \"Der Sturm\". Determined by the Nazi policy his art work was considered as degenerated and he withered on the vine. Maatsch's rediscovery ensued 1966.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40408419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40408419", "title": "Tom Cohen", "text": "Tom Cohen\n\nTom Dana Cohen (born August 13, 1953), is an American media and cultural theorist, currently a professor at the University at Albany, State University of New York. He has published numerous important books on Alfred Hitchcock. Cohen has also written on other aspects of film studies, comparative literature, theory, cultural studies and on Paul de Man. Cohen has also published broadly on American authors and ideology, including Edgar Allan Poe, Walt Whitman, Mikhail Bakhtin, William Faulkner and pragmatism, as well as on Alfred Hitchcock, Greek philosophy and continental philosophy.\n\nHe is the editor (with Claire Colebrook) of the Critical Climate Change Book Series at Open Humanities Press and has lectured and taught internationally, including in China and Fulbright sponsored work in Thailand. He has been awarded a Distinguished Visiting Professorship by Shanghai Municipality in Shanghai.\n\nCohen's education consists of a M.A. from the University of Chicago in Comparative Literature and a Ph.D. from Yale University in Comparative Literature. Thus Cohen’s work began in literary theory and cultural politics but he has then explored as a philosopher areas of critical theory, cinema studies, digital media and climate change.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37923881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37923881", "title": "William Vorilong", "text": "William Vorilong\n\nWilliam Vorilong, also known as Guillermus Vorrilong, Willem of Verolon, William of Vaurouillon, Guilelmus de Valle Rouillonis, etc. (ca. 1390 - 1463) was a French philosopher and theologian. He wrote a biography of Duns Scotus. From 1457 onwards he was a regent master in Lyon, becoming licentiate and master of theology at Lyon in 1458.\n\nWilliam Vorilong at The Logic Museum\n"}
