{"id": "44534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44534", "title": "1989 Tiananmen Square protests", "text": "1989 Tiananmen Square protests\n\nThe 1989 Tiananmen Square protests, commonly known in mainland China as the June Fourth Incident (Chinese: , \"liùsì shìjiàn\"), were student-led demonstrations in Beijing (the capital of the People's Republic of China) in 1989. More broadly, it refers to the popular national movement inspired by the Beijing protests during that period, sometimes called the '89 Democracy Movement (Chinese: , \"bājiǔ mínyùn\"). The protests were forcibly suppressed after Chinese Premier Li Peng declared martial law. In what became known in the West as the Tiananmen Square Massacre, troops with automatic rifles and tanks fired at the demonstrators trying to block the military's advance towards Tiananmen Square. The number of civilian deaths has been estimated variously from 180 to 10,454.\n\nSet against a backdrop of rapid economic development and social changes in post-Mao Zedong China, the protests reflected anxieties about the country's future in the popular consciousness and among the political elite. The reforms of the 1980s had led to a nascent market economy which benefitted some people, but seriously disaffected others and the one-party political system also faced a challenge of legitimacy. Common grievances at the time included inflation, limited preparedness of graduates for the new economy and restrictions on political participation. The students called for democracy, greater accountability, freedom of the press and freedom of speech, though they were loosely organized and their goals varied. At the height of the protests, about 1 million people assembled in the Square.\n\nAs the protests developed, the authorities veered back and forth between conciliatory and hardline tactics, exposing deep divisions within the party leadership. By May, a student-led hunger strike galvanized support for the demonstrators around the country and the protests spread to some 400 cities. Ultimately, China's paramount leader Deng Xiaoping and other Communist Party elders believed the protests to be a political threat and resolved to use force. The State Council declared martial law on May 20 and mobilized as many as 300,000 troops to Beijing. The troops suppressed the protests by firing at demonstrators with automatic weapons, killing multiple protesters and leading to mass civil unrest in the days following.\n\nThe international community, human rights organizations and political analysts condemned the Chinese government for the violent response to the protests. Western countries imposed severe economic sanctions and arms embargoes on Chinese entities and officials. In response, the Chinese government verbally attacked the protestors and denounced Western nations who had imposed sanctions on China by accusing them of interference in China's internal affairs, which elicited heavier condemnation by the West. It made widespread arrests of protesters and their supporters, suppressed other protests around China, expelled foreign journalists, strictly controlled coverage of the events in the domestic press, strengthened the police and internal security forces and demoted or purged officials it deemed sympathetic to the protests. More broadly, the suppression temporarily halted the policies of liberalization in the 1980s. Considered a watershed event, the protests also set the limits on political expression in China well into the 21st century. Its memory is widely associated with questioning the legitimacy of Communist Party rule and remains one of the most sensitive and most widely censored political topics in mainland China.\n\nIn the Chinese language, the incident is most commonly known as the June Fourth Incident. Events named by date in Chinese are conventionally named by the number of the month and the date, followed by the type of event. Thus, the common Chinese name for the crackdown on the 1989 massacre is June Fourth Incident (Chinese: , \"liùsì shìjiàn\"), literally Six Four Incident ( means six, means four, means incident). The nomenclature of the former is consistent with the customary names of the other two great protests that occurred in Tiananmen Square: the May Fourth Movement of 1919 and the April Fifth Movement of 1976. June Fourth refers to the day on which the People's Liberation Army cleared Tiananmen Square of protesters, although actual operations began on the evening of 4 June. Names such as June Fourth Movement (Chinese: , \"liù-sì yùndòng\") and '89 Democracy Movement (Chinese: , \"bā-jiǔ mínyùn\") are used to describe the event in its entirety.\n\nOutside mainland China, and among circles critical of the crackdown within mainland China, it is commonly referred to in Chinese as June Fourth Massacre (Chinese: , \"liù-sì túshā\") and June Fourth Crackdown (Chinese: , \"liù-sì zhènyā\"). To bypass internet censorship in China, which uniformly considers all the above-mentioned names too 'Sensitive' for search engines and public forums, alternative names have sprung up to describe the events on the Internet, such as May 35th, VIIV (Roman numerals for 6 and 4) and Eight Squared (i.e. 8 = 64).\n\nThe government of the People's Republic of China have used numerous names for the event since 1989, gradually reducing the intensity of terminology applied. As the events were unfolding, it was labelled a \"counterrevolutionary riot\", which was later changed to simply \"riot\", followed by \"political storm\" and finally the leadership settled on the more neutralized phrase \"political turmoil between the Spring and Summer of 1989\", which it uses to this day.\n\nIn English, the terms Tiananmen Square Massacre, Tiananmen Square Protests or Tiananmen Square Crackdown are often used to describe the series of events. However, much of the violence did not actually happen in Tiananmen, but outside the square in the city of Beijing near the Muxidi area. The term also gives a misleading impression that demonstrations only happened in Beijing, when in fact they occurred in many cities throughout China. (Examples include Chengdu from the account of Louisa Lim's \"\").\n\nThe Cultural Revolution ended with chairman Mao Zedong's death in 1976. The movement, spearheaded by Mao, caused severe damage to the country's economic and social fabric. The country was mired in poverty as economic production slowed or came to a halt. Political ideology was paramount in the lives of ordinary people as well as the inner workings of the Communist Party itself. At the Third Plenum of the 11th Central Committee in December 1978, Deng Xiaoping emerged as China's \"de facto\" leader. Deng launched a comprehensive program to reform the Chinese economy. Within several years, the country's direction entirely changed. The focus on ideological purity was replaced by a full-on drive to achieve material prosperity.\n\nTo run his reform agenda, Deng promoted his allies to top government and party posts. Hu Yaobang was appointed the General Secretary of the Communist Party in February 1980, and Zhao Ziyang was named as Premier of the People's Republic of China in September.\n\nThe reforms aimed to decrease the role of the state in the economy and gradually introduced private forms of production in agriculture and industry. By 1981, roughly 73% of rural farms had de-collectivized and 80% of state owned enterprises were permitted to retain profits. Within a few years, production increased by leaps and bounds, and poverty was reduced substantially.\n\nWhile the reforms were generally well received by the public, concerns grew over a series of social problems that the changes brought about, including corruption and nepotism by elite party bureaucrats. The state-mandated pricing system, in place since the 1950s, had long kept prices stable at low levels. The initial reforms created a two-tier system where some prices were fixed while others were allowed to fluctuate. In a market with chronic shortages, this allowed people with powerful connections to buy goods at low prices and sell at market prices. In addition, the money supply had expanded too fast. At least a third of factories were unprofitable. The government tightened the money supply in 1988, leaving much of the economy without loans.\n\nFollowing the 1988 Beidaihe meeting, the party leadership under Deng agreed to a transition to a market-based pricing system. News of the relaxation of price controls triggered waves of cash withdrawals, buying and hoarding all over China. The government panicked and rescinded the price reforms in less than two weeks, but its impact was pronounced for much longer. Inflation soared. Official indices report that the Consumer Price Index increased 30% in Beijing between 1987 and 1988, leading to panic among salaried workers that they could no longer afford staple goods. Moreover, in the new market economy, unprofitable state-owned enterprises were pressured to cut costs. This threatened a vast proportion of the population which relied on the \"iron rice bowl\", i.e. a host of social benefits such as job security, medical care and subsidized housing.\n\nReformist leaders envisioned in 1978 that intellectuals would play a leading role in guiding the country through reforms, but this did not happen as planned. Despite the opening of new universities and increased enrollment, the state-directed education system did not produce enough graduates to meet increased market demand in the areas of agriculture, light industry, services, and foreign investment. The job market was especially limited for students specializing in social sciences and the humanities. Moreover, private companies no longer needed to accept students assigned to them by the state, and many high-paying jobs were offered on the basis of nepotism and favoritism. Gaining a good state-assigned placement meant navigating a highly inefficient bureaucracy that gave power to officials who had little expertise in their area of jurisdiction. Facing a dismal job market and limited chances of going abroad, intellectuals and students had a greater vested interest in political issues. Small study groups, such as the \"Democracy Salon\" and the \"Lawn Salon\" (\"Caodi Shalong\"), began appearing on Beijing university campuses. These organizations motivated the students to get involved politically.\n\nAt the same time, the party's nominally socialist ideology faced a legitimacy crisis as it gradually adopted capitalist practices. Private enterprise gave rise to profiteers who took advantage of lax regulations, and who often flaunted their wealth in front of those who were less well off. Popular discontent was brewing over unfair wealth distribution. Greed, not skill, appeared to be the most crucial factor of success. There was widespread public disillusionment over the country's future. People wanted change, yet the power to define 'the correct path' continued to rest solely in the hands of the unelected government.\n\nThe comprehensive and wide-ranging reforms created political differences over the pace of marketization and the control over the ideology that came with it, opening a deep chasm within the central leadership. The reformers (\"the right\", led by Hu Yaobang) favoured political liberalization and a plurality of ideas as a channel to voice popular discontent, and pressed for further reforms. The conservatives (\"the left\", led by Chen Yun) said that the reforms had gone too far, and advocated a return to greater state control to ensure social stability and to better align with the party's socialist ideology. Both sides needed the backing of paramount leader Deng Xiaoping to carry out important policy decisions.\n\nIn mid-1986, astrophysics professor Fang Lizhi, who had returned from a position at Princeton University, began a personal tour around universities in China, speaking about liberty, human rights, and separation of powers. Fang was part of a wider undercurrent within the elite intellectual community that thought China's poverty and underdevelopment and the disaster of the Cultural Revolution were a direct result of the authoritarian political system and the rigid command economy. The view that political reform was the only answer to China's on-going problems gained widespread appeal among students, as Fang's recorded speeches became widely circulated all over the country. In response, Deng Xiaoping warned that Fang was blindly worshipping Western lifestyles, capitalism, and multi-party systems, while undermining China's socialist ideology, traditional values, and the party's leadership.\n\nInspired by Fang and other 'people-power' movements around the world, in December 1986, student demonstrators staged protests against the slow pace of reform. The issues were wide-ranging, and included demands for economic liberalization, democracy, and rule of law. While the protests were initially contained in Hefei, where Fang lived, they quickly spread to Shanghai, Beijing and other major cities. This alarmed the central leadership, who accused the students of instigating Cultural Revolution-style turmoil.\n\nGeneral secretary Hu Yaobang was blamed for taking a soft attitude and mishandling the protests, thus undermining social stability. He was denounced thoroughly by conservatives. Hu was forced to resign as general secretary on 16 January 1987. Then the party began the \"Anti-bourgeois liberalization Campaign\", taking aim at Hu, political liberalization and Western-inspired ideas in general. The Campaign stopped student protests and tightened the political environment, but Hu remained popular among progressives in the party, intellectuals, and students.\n\nWhen Hu Yaobang suddenly died of a heart attack on 15 April 1989, students reacted strongly, most of them believing that his death was related to his forced resignation. Hu's death provided the initial impetus for students to gather in large numbers. In university campuses, many posters appeared eulogizing Hu, calling for a revival of Hu's legacy. Within days, most posters were writing about broader political issues, such as freedom of the press, democracy, and corruption. Small spontaneous gatherings to mourn Hu began on 15 April around Monument to the People's Heroes at Tiananmen Square. On the same day, many students at Peking University (PKU) and Tsinghua University erected shrines, and joined the gathering in Tiananmen Square in a piecemeal fashion. Organized student gatherings also began on a small scale in Xi'an and Shanghai on 16 April. On 17 April, students at the China University of Political Science and Law (CUPL) made a large wreath to commemorate Hu Yaobang. Its laying-party was on 17 April and a larger-than-expected crowd assembled. At 5 pm, 500 CUPL students reached the eastern gate of the Great Hall of the People, near Tiananmen Square, to mourn Hu. The gathering featured speakers from various backgrounds giving public orations commemorating Hu and discussing social problems. However, it was soon deemed obstructive to the operation of the Great Hall, so police tried to persuade the students to disperse.\n\nStarting on the night of 17 April, three thousand PKU students marched from the campus towards Tiananmen Square, and soon nearly a thousand students from Tsinghua joined. Upon arrival, they soon joined forces with those already gathered at the Square. As its size grew, the gathering gradually evolved into a protest, as students began to draft a list of pleas and suggestions (Seven Demands) for the government:\n\nOn the morning of 18 April, students remained in the Square. Some gathered around the Monument to the People's Heroes singing patriotic songs and listening to impromptu speeches by student organizers, others gathered at the Great Hall. Meanwhile, a few thousand students gathered at Xinhua Gate, the entrance to Zhongnanhai, the seat of the party leadership, where they demanded dialogue with the leadership. Police restrained the students from entering the compound. Students then staged a sit-in.\n\nOn 20 April, most students had been persuaded to leave Xinhua Gate. To disperse about 200 students that remained, police used batons; minor clashes were reported. Many students felt abused by the police, and rumours about police brutality spread quickly. This incident angered students on campus, where those who were not politically active decided to join the protests. Also on this date, a group of workers calling themselves the Beijing Workers' Autonomous Federation issued two handbills challenging the central leadership.\n\nHu's state funeral took place on 22 April. On the evening of 21 April, some 100,000 students marched on Tiananmen Square, ignoring orders from Beijing municipal authorities that the Square was to be closed off for the funeral. The funeral, which took place inside the Great Hall and attended by the leadership, was broadcast live to the students. General secretary Zhao Ziyang delivered the eulogy. The funeral seemed rushed, and only lasted 40 minutes, as emotions ran high in the Square. Students wept.\n\nSecurity cordoned off the east entrance to the Great Hall, but several students pressed forward. Three of these students knelt on the steps of the Great Hall to present a petition and demanded to see Premier Li Peng. However, no leaders emerged from the Great Hall, leaving the students disappointed and angry; some called for a class boycott.\n\nFrom 21 to 23 April 21, students began organizing under the banners of formal organizations. On 23 April, the Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation (also known as the Union) was formed. It elected CUPL student Zhou Yongjun as chair. Wang Dan and Wu'erkaixi also emerged as leaders. From this vantage point, the Union called for a general class boycott at all Beijing universities. Such an independent organization operating outside of party jurisdiction alarmed the leadership.\n\nOn 22 April, near dusk, serious rioting broke out in Changsha and Xi'an. In Xi'an, arson from rioters destroyed cars and houses, and looting occurred in shops near the city's Xihua Gate. In Changsha, 38 stores were ransacked by looters. Over 350 people were arrested in both cities. In Wuhan, university students organized protests against the provincial government. As the situation became more volatile nationally, Zhao Ziyang called numerous meetings of the Politburo Standing Committee (PSC). Zhao stressed three points: discourage students from further protests and ask them to go back to class, use all measures necessary to combat rioting, and open forms of dialogue with students at different levels of government. Premier Li Peng called upon Zhao to condemn protestors and recognize the need to take more serious action. Zhao dismissed Li's views. Despite calls for him to remain in Beijing, Zhao left for a scheduled state visit to North Korea on 23 April.\n\nZhao's departure to North Korea left Li Peng as the acting executive authority in Beijing. On 24 April, Li Peng and the PSC met with Beijing Party Secretary Li Ximing and mayor Chen Xitong to gauge the situation at the Square. The municipal officials wanted a quick resolution to the crisis and framed the protests as a conspiracy to overthrow China's political system and major party leaders, including Deng Xiaoping. In Zhao's absence, the PSC agreed that firm action against protesters must be taken. On the morning of 25 April, President Yang Shangkun and Premier Li Peng met with Deng at the latter's residence. Deng endorsed a hardline stance and said an appropriate 'warning' must be disseminated via mass media to curb further demonstrations. The meeting firmly established the first official evaluation of the protests from the leadership, and highlighted Deng's having 'final say' on important issues. Li Peng subsequently ordered Deng's views to be drafted as a communique and issued to all high-level Communist Party officials in an effort to mobilize the party apparatus against protesters.\n\nOn 26 April, the party's official newspaper \"People's Daily\" issued a front-page editorial titled \"It is necessary to take a clear-cut stand against disturbances.\" The language in the editorial effectively branded the student movement to be an anti-party, anti-government revolt. The article enraged students, who interpreted it as a direct indictment on the protests and its cause. The editorial backfired. Instead of scaring students into submission, it squarely antagonized the students against the government. The polarizing nature of the editorial made it a major sticking point for the remainder of the protests. The editorial evoked memories of the Cultural Revolution, using similar rhetoric as that used during the 1976 Tiananmen Incident—an event that was initially branded an anti-government conspiracy but was later rehabilitated as \"patriotic\" under Deng's leadership.\n\nOrganized by the Union on 27 April, some 50,000–100,000 students from all Beijing universities marched through the streets of the capital to Tiananmen Square, breaking through lines set up by police, and receiving widespread public support along the way, particularly from factory workers. The student leaders, eager to show the patriotic nature of the movement, also toned down anti-Communist slogans, choosing to present a message of \"anti-corruption, anti-cronyism\", but \"pro-party\". In a twist of irony, student factions who genuinely called for the overthrow of the Communist Party gained traction as the result of an 26 April editorial.\n\nThe stunning success of the March forced the government into making concessions and meeting with student representatives. On 29 April, State Council spokesman Yuan Mu () met with appointed representatives of government-sanctioned student associations. While the talks discussed a wide range of issues, including the editorial, the Xinhua Gate incident and freedom of the press, they achieved few substantive results. Independent student leaders such as Wuer Kaixi refused to attend.\n\nThe government's tone grew increasingly conciliatory as Zhao Ziyang returned from Pyongyang on 30 April and resumed his executive authority. In Zhao's view, the hardliner approach was not working, and concession was the only alternative. Zhao asked that the press be opened to report the movement positively, and delivered two sympathetic speeches on 3–4 May. In the speeches, Zhao said that the student's concerns about corruption were legitimate, and that the student movement was patriotic in nature. The speeches essentially negated the message presented by 26 April Editorial. While some 100,000 students marched on the streets of Beijing on 4 May to commemorate the May Fourth Movement and repeat demands from earlier marches, many students were satisfied with the government's concessions. On 4 May, all Beijing universities except PKU and BNU announced the end of the class boycott. Subsequently, the majority of students began to lose interest in the movement.\n\nThe leadership was divided on how to respond to the movement as early as mid-April. After Zhao Ziyang's return from North Korea, factional tensions, between the progressive camp and the conservative camp, intensified. Those who supported continued dialogue and a soft approach with students rallied behind Zhao Ziyang, while hardliner conservatives who opposed the movement rallied behind Premier Li Peng. Zhao and Li clashed at a PSC meeting on 1 May. Li maintained that the need for stability overrides all else, while Zhao said that the party should show support for increased democracy and transparency. Zhao pushed the case for further dialogue.\n\nIn preparation for dialogue, the Autonomous Student Union elected representatives to a formal Dialogue Delegation. However, the Union leaders were reluctant to let the Delegation unilaterally take control of the movement. Facing internal discord and declining engagement from the student body at large, a group of charismatic leaders, including Wang Dan and Wu'erkaixi, called for more radical measures to regain momentum. They believed that the government's 'dialogue' was merely a way to trick the students into submission. They began mobilizing students for a hunger strike on 11 May.\n\nStudents began the hunger strike on 13 May, two days before the highly publicized state visit by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. Knowing that the welcoming ceremony for Gorbachev was scheduled to be held on the Square, student leaders wanted to use the hunger strike there to force the government into meeting their demands. Moreover, the hunger strike gained widespread sympathy from the population at large and earned the student movement the moral high ground that it sought. By the afternoon of 13 May, some 300,000 were gathered at the Square.\n\nInspired by the course of events in Beijing, protests and strikes began at universities in other cities, with many students traveling to Beijing to join the demonstration. Generally, the demonstration at Tiananmen Square was well ordered, with daily marches of students from various Beijing-area colleges displaying their solidarity with the class boycott and with the demands of the protest. The students sang \"The Internationale\", the world socialist anthem, on their way to, and at, the square.\n\nAfraid that the movement would spin out of control, Deng Xiaoping asked that the Square be cleared for Gorbachev's visit. Executing Deng's request, Zhao again used a soft approach, and directed his subordinates to coordinate negotiations with students immediately. Zhao believed he could appeal to the students' patriotism, and that the students understood signs of internal turmoil during the Sino-Soviet summit would embarrass the nation (not just the government). On the morning of 13 May, Yan Mingfu, head of the Communist Party's United Front, called an emergency meeting, gathering prominent student leaders and intellectuals, including Liu Xiaobo, Chen Ziming and Wang Juntao. Yan said the government was prepared to hold immediate dialogue with student representatives, but that the Tiananmen welcoming ceremony for Gorbachev would be cancelled whether the students withdraw or not—in effect removing the bargaining power the students thought they possessed. The announcement sent the student leadership into disarray.\n\nPress restrictions were loosened significantly during early to mid-May. State media began broadcasting footage sympathetic to protesters and the movement, including the hunger strikers. On 14 May, intellectuals led by Dai Qing gained permission from Hu Qili to bypass government censorship and air the progressive views of the nation's intellectuals on \"Guangming Daily\". The intellectuals then issued an urgent appeal for the students to leave the Square in an attempt to deescalate the conflict. However, many students believed that the intellectuals were speaking for the government, and refused to move. That evening, formal negotiations took place between government representatives led by Yan Mingfu and student representatives led by Shen Tong and Xiang Xiaoji. Yan affirmed the patriotic nature of the student movement and pleaded for the students to withdraw from the Square. While Yan's apparent sincerity for compromise satisfied some students, the meeting grew increasingly chaotic as competing student factions relayed uncoordinated and incoherent demands to the leadership. Shortly after student leaders learned that the event had not been broadcast nationally as initially promised by the government, the meeting fell apart. Yan then personally went to the Square to appeal to the students, even offering himself to be held hostage. Yan also took the student's pleas to Li Peng the next day, asking Li to consider formally retracting the 26 April Editorial and rebranding the movement as \"patriotic and democratic\"; Li refused.\n\nThe students remained in the Square during the Gorbachev visit; his welcoming ceremony was held at the airport. The Sino-Soviet summit, the first of its kind in some 30 years, marked the normalization of Sino-Soviet relations, and was seen as a breakthrough of tremendous historical significance for China's leaders. However, its smooth proceedings was derailed by the student movement; according to one scholar, this embarrassed the leadership on the global stage, and drove many moderates in government onto a more 'hardliner' path. The summit between Deng and Gorbachev took place at the Great Hall of the People amid the backdrop of commotion and protest in the Square. When Gorbachev met with Zhao on 16 May, Zhao told him, and by extension the international press, that Deng was still the 'paramount authority' in China. Deng felt that this remark was Zhao's attempt to shift blame for mishandling the movement to him. The statement marked a decisive split between the country's two most senior leaders.\n\nThe hunger strike galvanized support for the students and aroused sympathy across the country. Around a million Beijing residents from all walks of life demonstrated in solidarity from 17–18 May. These included PLA personnel, police officers, and lower party officials. Many grassroots Party and Youth League organizations, as well as government-sponsored labour unions, encouraged their membership to demonstrate. In addition, several of China's non-Communist parties sent a letter to Li Peng in support of students. The Chinese Red Cross issued a special notice and sent in a large number of personnel to provide medical services to the hunger strikers on the Square. After the departure of Mikhail Gorbachev, many foreign journalists remained in the Chinese capital to cover the protests, giving the movement international spotlight. Western governments urged Beijing to exercise restraint.\n\nThe movement, on the wane at the end of April, now regained significant momentum. By 17 May, as students from across the country poured into the capital to join the movement, protests of varying sizes were occurring in some 400 Chinese cities. Students demonstrated at provincial party headquarters in Fujian, Hubei, and Xinjiang. Without a clearly articulated official position from the Beijing leadership, local authorities did not know how to respond. Because the demonstrations now included a wide array of social groups, each carrying its own set of grievances, it became increasingly unclear with whom the government should negotiate, and what the demands were. The government, still split on how to deal with the movement, saw its authority and legitimacy gradually erode as the hunger strikers took the limelight and gained widespread sympathy. These combined circumstances put immense pressure on the authorities to act, and martial law was discussed as a viable response.\n\nThe situation seemed intractable, so the weight of taking decisive action fell on paramount leader Deng Xiaoping. On 17 May, a PSC meeting was called at Deng's residence. At the meeting, Zhao Ziyang's concessions-based strategy, which called for the retraction of the April 26 Editorial, was thoroughly criticized. Li Peng and Deng asserted that by making a conciliatory speech on 4 May, Zhao exposed divisions within the top leadership and emboldened the students. Deng warned that if Beijing was not pacified quickly, the country risked civil war and another Cultural Revolution; his views were echoed by the party elders. Deng then moved to declare martial law as a show of the government's no-tolerance stance. To justify martial law, the demonstrators were described as tools of \"bourgeois liberalism\" advocates who were pulling the strings behind the scenes, as well as tools of elements within the party who wished to further their personal ambitions.\n\nOn the evening of 17 May, the PSC met at Zhongnanhai to finalize plans for martial law. At the meeting, Zhao announced that he was ready to \"take leave\", citing he could not bring himself to carry out martial law. The elders in attendance at the meeting, Bo Yibo and Yang Shangkun, urged the PSC to follow Deng's orders. Zhao did not consider the inconclusive PSC vote to have legally binding implications on martial law; Yang Shangkun, in his capacity as Vice Chairman of the Central Military Commission, went on to mobilize the military to move into the capital.\n\nLi Peng for the first time on 18 May in an attempt to placate public concern over the hunger strike. During the talks, student leaders again demanded that the government rescind the 26 April Editorial and affirm the student movement as \"patriotic\". Li Peng said the government's main concern was sending hunger strikers to hospital. The discussions yielded little substantive results, but gained student leaders prominent airtime on national television.\n\nIn the early morning of 19 May, Zhao Ziyang went to Tiananmen in what became his political swan song (final effort). He was accompanied by Wen Jiabao. Li Peng also went to the Square, but left shortly thereafter. At 4:50am Zhao made a speech with a bullhorn to a crowd of students, urging the students to end the hunger strike. He told the students that they were still young and urged them to stay healthy and not to sacrifice themselves without due concern for their futures. Zhao's emotional speech was applauded by some students. It would be his last public appearance.\n\nOn 19 May, the PSC met with military leaders and party elders. Deng presided over the meeting and said that martial law was the only option. At the meeting Deng declared that he was 'mistaken' in choosing Hu Yaobang and Zhao Ziyang as his successors, and resolved to remove Zhao from his position as general secretary. Deng also vowed to deal resolutely with Zhao's supporters and begin propaganda work.\n\nUniversity students in Shanghai also took to the streets to commemorate the death of Hu Yaobang and protest against certain policies of the government. In many cases, these were supported by the universities' Party committees. Jiang Zemin, then-Municipal Party Secretary, addressed the student protesters in a bandage and 'expressed his understanding' as he was a former student agitator before 1949. At the same time, he moved swiftly to send in police forces to control the streets and to purge Communist Party leaders who had supported the students.\n\nOn April 19, the editors of the \"World Economic Herald\", a magazine close to reformists, decided to publish a commemorative section on Hu. Inside was an article by Yan Jiaqi, which commented favourably on the Beijing student protests, and called for a reassessment of Hu's 1987 purge. Sensing the conservative political trends in Beijing, Jiang Zemin demanded that the article be censored. Many newspapers were printed with a blank page. Jiang then suspended Qin Benli. His decisive action earned accolades from party elders, who praised Jiang's loyalty.\n\nIn Hong Kong on 27 May, over 300,000 people gathered at Happy Valley Racecourse for a gathering called Democratic songs dedicated for China (Chinese: ). Many Hong Kong celebrities sang songs and expressed their support for the students in Beijing. The following day, a procession of 1.5 million people, one fourth of Hong Kong's population, led by Martin Lee, Szeto Wah and other organization leaders, paraded through Hong Kong Island. Across the world, especially where ethnic-Chinese lived, people gathered and protested. Many governments, including those of the United States and Japan, issued travel warnings to China.\n\nThe Chinese government declared martial law on 20 May and mobilized at least 30 divisions from five of the country's seven military regions. At least 14 of PLA's 24 army corps contributed troops. As many as 250,000 troops were eventually sent to the capital, some arriving by air and others by rail. Guangzhou's civil aviation authorities put regular airline tickets on hold to prepare for transporting military units.\n\nThe army's entry into the city was blocked at its suburbs by throngs of protesters. Tens of thousands of demonstrators surrounded military vehicles, preventing them from either advancing or retreating. Protesters lectured soldiers and appealed to them to join their cause; they also provided soldiers with food, water, and shelter. Seeing no way forward, the authorities ordered the army to withdraw on 24 May. All government forces retreated to bases outside the city. While the Army's withdrawal was initially seen as 'turning the tide' in favour of protesters, in reality mobilization took place across the country for a final assault.\n\nAt the same time, internal divisions intensified within the student movement itself. By late May, the students became increasingly disorganized with no clear leadership or unified course of action. Moreover, Tiananmen Square was overcrowded and facing serious hygiene problems. Hou Dejian suggested an open election of the student leadership to speak for the movement, but was met with opposition. Meanwhile, Wang Dan moderated his position, ostensibly sensing the impending military action and consequences, and advocated for a temporary withdrawal from Tiananmen Square to re-group on campus, but this was opposed by 'hardliner' student factions who wanted to hold the Square. The increasing internal friction would lead to struggles for control of the loudspeakers in the middle of the square in a series of 'mini-coups': whoever controlled the loudspeakers was 'in charge' of the movement. Some students would wait at the train station to greet arrivals of students from other parts of the country in an attempt to enlist factional support. Student groups began accusing each other of ulterior motives such as collusion with the government and trying to gain personal fame from the movement. Some students even tried to oust Chai Ling and Feng Congde from their leadership positions in an attempted kidnapping, an action Chai called a \"well-organized and pre-meditated plot.\"\n\nOn 1 June, Li Peng issued a report titled \"On the True Nature of the Turmoil\", which was circulated to every member of the Politburo. The report aimed to persuade the Politburo of the necessity and legality of clearing Tiananmen Square by referring to the protestors as terrorists and counterrevolutionaries. The report stated that turmoil was continuing to grow, the students had no plans to leave, and they were gaining popular support. Further justification for martial law came in the form of a report submitted by the Ministry of State Security (MSS) to the party leadership, which emphasized the infiltration of bourgeois liberalism into China and the negative effect that the West, particularly the United States, had on the students. The MSS expressed its belief that American forces had intervened in the student movement in hopes of overthrowing the Communist Party. The report created a sense of urgency within the party, and provided justification for military action. In conjunction with the plan to clear the Square by force, the Politburo received word from the martial law troops headquarters stating that the troops were ready to help stabilize the capital, and that they understood the necessity and legality of martial law to overcome the turmoil. \n\nOn 2 June, the movement saw an increase in action and protest, solidifying the CPC's decision that it was time to act. Protests broke out as newspapers published articles that called for the students to leave Tiananmen Square and end the movement. Many of the students in the Square were not willing to leave and were outraged by the articles. They were also outraged by \"Beijing Daily's 1\" June article \"Tiananmen, I Cry for You\", written by a fellow student who had become disillusioned with the movement, as he thought it was chaotic and disorganized. In response to the articles, thousands of students lined the streets of Beijing to protest against leaving the Square.\n\nThree intellectuals, Liu Xiaobo, Zhou Duo, Gao Xin and a Taiwanese singer Hou Dejian declared a second hunger strike because they wanted to revive the pro-democracy movement. After weeks of occupying the Square, the students were tired, and internal rifts opened between moderate and hardliner student groups. In their declaration speech, the hunger strikers openly criticized the government's suppression of the movement to remind the students that their cause was worth fighting for, and pushed them to continue their occupation of the Square.\n\nOn 2 June, Deng Xiaoping and several party elders met with the three remaining politburo standing committee members, Li Peng, Qiao Shi and Yao Yilin, after Zhao Ziyang and Hu Qili had been ousted and agreed to clear the Square so \"the riot can be halted and order be restored to the Capital.\" They also agreed that the Square needed to be cleared as peacefully as possible, but if protesters did not cooperate, the troops were authorized to use force to complete the job. That day, state-run newspapers reported that troops were positioned in ten key areas in the city. Units of the 27th, 65th and the 24th Armies were secretly moved into the Great Hall of the People on the west side of the Square and the Ministry of Public Security compound east of the Square.\n\nOn the evening of 2 June, reports that an army trencher ran into four civilians, killing three sparked fear that the army and the police were trying to advance into Tiananmen Square. Student leaders issued emergency orders to set up roadblocks at major intersections to prevent the entry of troops into the center of the city.\n\nOn the morning of 3 June, students and residents discovered troops dressed in plainclothes trying to smuggle weapons into the city. The students seized and handed the weapons to Beijing Police. The students protested outside the Xinhua Gate of the Zhongnanhai leadership compound and the police fired tear gas. Unarmed troops emerged from the Great Hall of the People and were quickly met with crowds of protesters. Several protesters tried to injure the troops as they collided outside the Great Hall of the People, forcing soldiers to retreat, but only for a short while.\n\nAt 4:30pm on 3 June, the three politburo standing committee members met with military leaders, Beijing Party Secretary Li Ximing, mayor Chen Xitong, and State Council secretariat Luo Gan, and finalized the order for the enforcement of martial law:\n\nThe order did not explicitly contain a shoot-to-kill directive but permission to \"use any means\" was understood by some units as authorization to use lethal force. That evening, the leaders monitored the operation from the Great Hall of the People and Zhongnanhai.\n\nOn the evening of 3 June, state-run television warned residents to stay indoors but crowds of people took to the streets, as they had two weeks before, to block the incoming army. PLA units advanced on Beijing from every direction—the 38th, 63rd and 28th Armies from the west, the 15th Airborne Corps, 20th, 26th and 54th Armies from the south, the 39th Army and the 1st Armored Division from the east and the 40th and 64th Armies from the north.\n\nAt about 10pm, the 38th Army opened fire on protesters at the Wukesong intersection on Chang'an Avenue, about 10 km west of Square. The crowds were stunned that the army was using live ammunition and reacted by hurling insults and projectiles. Song Xiaoming, a 32-year-old aerospace technician, killed at Wukesong, was the first confirmed fatality of the night. The troops used expanding bullets, prohibited by international law for use in warfare, which expand upon entering the body and create larger wounds.\n\nAt about 10:30pm, the advance of the army was briefly halted at Muxidi, about 5 km west of the Square, where articulated trolleybuses were placed across a bridge and set on fire. Crowds of residents from nearby apartment blocks tried to surround the military convoy and halt its advance. The 38th Army again opened fire, inflicting heavy casualties. According to the tabulation of victims by Tiananmen Mothers, 36 people died at Muxidi, including Wang Weiping, a doctor tending to the wounded. Several were killed in the apartments of high-ranking party officials overlooking the boulevard. Soldiers raked the apartment buildings with gunfire, and some people inside or on their balconies were shot. The 38th Army also used armored personnel carriers (APCs) to ram through the buses. They continued to fight off demonstrators, who hastily erected barricades and tried to form human chains. As the army advanced, fatalities were recorded all along Chang'an Avenue, at Nanlishilu, Fuxingmen, Xidan, Liubukou and Tiananmen. Among those killed was Duan Changlong, a Tsinghua University graduate student, who was shot in the chest as he tried to negotiate with soldiers at Xidan. To the south, paratroopers of the 15th Airborne Corps also used live ammunition, and civilian deaths were recorded at Hufangqiao, Zhushikou, Tianqiao, and Qianmen.\n\nThe killings infuriated city residents, some of whom attacked soldiers with sticks, rocks and molotov cocktails, setting fire to military vehicles. The Chinese government and its supporters have tried to argue that the troops acted in self-defense and seized upon troop casualties to justify the use of force. Lethal attacks on troops occurred after the military had opened fire at 10pm on June 3 and the number of military fatalities caused by protesters is relatively few—seven, according to Wu Renhua's study, compared to hundreds of civilian deaths.\n\nAt 8:30pm, army helicopters appeared above the Square and students called for campuses to send reinforcements. At 10pm, the founding ceremony of the Tiananmen Democracy University was held as scheduled at the base of the Goddess of Democracy. At 10:16pm, the loudspeakers controlled by the government warned that troops may take \"any measures\" to enforce martial law. By 10:30pm, news of bloodshed to the west and south of the city began trickling into the Square, often told by witnesses drenched in blood. At midnight, the students' loudspeaker announced news that a student had been killed on West Chang'an Avenue, near the Military Museum and a somber mood settled on the Square. Li Lu, the deputy commander of the student headquarters, urged students to remain united in defending the Square through non-violent means. At 12:30am, Wu'erkaixi fainted after learning that a female student at Beijing Normal University, who had left campus with him earlier in the evening, had just been killed. Wuerkaixi was taken away by ambulance. By then, there were still 70,000–80,000 people in the Square.\n\nAt about 12:15am, a flare lit up the sky and the first armored personnel vehicle appeared on the Square from the west. At 12:30am, two more APCs arrived from the South. The students threw chunks of concrete at the vehicles. One APC stalled, perhaps by metal poles jammed into its wheels, and the demonstrators covered it with gasoline-doused blankets and set it on fire. The intense heat forced out the three occupants, who were swarmed by demonstrators. The APCs had reportedly run over tents and many in the crowd wanted to beat the soldiers. But students formed a protective cordon and escorted the three men to the medic station by the History Museum on the east side of the Square.\n\nPressure mounted on the student leadership to abandon non-violence and retaliate against the killings. At one point, Chai Ling picked up the megaphone and called on fellow students to prepare to \"defend themselves\" against the \"shameless government.\" However, she and Li Lu agreed to adhere to peaceful means and had the students' sticks, rocks and glass bottles confiscated.\n\nAt about 1:30am, the vanguard of the 38th Army and paratroopers from the 15th Airborne Corps arrived at the north and south ends of the Square, respectively. They began to seal off the Square from reinforcements of students and residents, killing more demonstrators who were trying to enter the Square. Meanwhile, the 27th and 65th Armies poured out of the Great Hall of the People to the west and the 24th Army emerged from behind the History Museum to the east. The remaining students, numbering several thousand, were completely surrounded at the Monument of the People's Heroes in the center of the Square. At 2am, the troops fired shots over the heads of the students at the Monument. The students broadcast pleadings back toward the troops: \"We entreat you in peace, for democracy and freedom of the motherland, for strength and prosperity of the Chinese nation, please comply with the will of the people and refrain from using force against peaceful student demonstrators.\"\n\nAt about 2:30am, several workers near the Monument emerged with a machine gun they had captured from the troops and vowed to take revenge. They were persuaded to give up the weapon by Hou Dejian. The workers also handed over an assault rifle without ammunition, which Liu Xiaobo smashed against the marble railings of the Monument. Shao Jiang, a student who had witnessed the killings at Muxidi, pleaded with the older intellectuals to retreat, saying too many lives had been lost. Initially, Liu Xiaobo was reluctant, but eventually joined Zhou Tuo, Gao Xin and Hou Dejian in making the case to the student leaders for a withdrawal. Chai Ling, Li Lu and Feng Congde initially rejected the idea of withdrawal. At 3:30am, at the suggestion of two doctors in the Red Cross camp, Hou Dejian and Zhuo Tuo agreed to try to negotiate with the soldiers. They rode in an ambulance to the northeast corner of the Square and spoke with Ji Xinguo, the political commissar of the 38th Army's 336th Regiment, who relayed the request to command headquarters, which agreed to grant safe passage for the students to the southeast. The commissar told Hou, \"it would be a tremendous accomplishment, if you can persuade the students to leave the Square.\n\nAt 4am, the lights on the Square suddenly turned off, and the government's loudspeaker announced: \"Clearance of the Square begins now. We agree with the students' request to clear the Square.\" The students sang \"The Internationale\" and braced for a last stand. Hou returned and informed student leaders of his agreement with the troops. At 4:30am, the lights relit and the troops began to advance on the Monument from all sides. At about 4:32am, Hou Dejian took the student's loudspeaker and recounted his meeting with the military. Many students, who learned of the talks for the first time, reacted angrily and accused him of cowardice.\n\nThe soldiers initially stopped about 10 meters from the students. The first row of troops took aim with machine guns in the prone position. Behind them soldiers squatted and stood with assault rifles. Mixed among them were anti-riot police with clubs. Further back were tanks and APCs. Feng Congde took to the loudspeaker and explained that there was no time left to hold a meeting. Instead, a voice vote would decide the collective action of the group. Although the \"stays\" were louder than \"gos\", Feng said the \"gos\" had prevailed. Just at that time, at about 4:40am, a squad of soldiers in camouflaged uniform charged up the Monument and shot out the students' loudspeaker. Other troops beat and kicked dozens of students at the Monument, seizing and smashing their cameras and recording equipment. An officer with a loudspeaker called out \"you better leave or this won't end well.\"\n\nSome of the students and professors persuaded others still sitting on the lower tiers of the Monument to get up and leave, while soldiers beat them with clubs and gunbutts and prodded them with bayonets. Witnesses heard bursts of gunfire. At about 5:10am, the students began to leave the Monument. They linked hands and marched through a corridor to the southeast, though some departed through the north. Those who refused to leave were beaten by soldiers and ordered to join the departing procession. Having removed the students from the square, soldiers were ordered to relinquish their ammunition, after which they were allowed a short reprieve from 7am to 9am. The soldiers were then ordered to clear the square of all debris left over from the student occupation. The debris was either piled and burnt on the square, or placed in large plastic bags that were airlifted away by military helicopters. After the cleanup, the troops stationed at The Great Hall of the People remained confined within for the next nine days. During this time, the soldiers were left to sleep on the floors and fed a single packet of instant noodles split between three men daily. Officers apparently suffered no such deprivation, and were served regular meals apart from their troops.\n\nJust past 6am on June 4, as a convoy of students who had vacated the Square were walking westward in the bicycle lane along Chang'an Avenue back to campus, three tanks pursued them from the Square, firing tear gas and one drove through the crowd, killing 11 students, injuring scores.\n\nLater in the morning, thousands of civilians tried to re-enter the Square from the northeast on East Chang'an Avenue, which was blocked by rows of infantry. Many in the crowd were parents of the demonstrators who had been in the Square. As the crowd approached the troops, an officer sounded a warning, and the troops opened fire. The crowd scurried back down the avenue in view of journalists in the Beijing Hotel. Dozens of civilians were shot in the back as they fled. Later, the crowds surged back toward the troops, who opened fire again. The people fled in panic. An ambulance that was arriving was also caught in the gunfire. The crowd tried several more times but could not enter the Square, which remained closed to the public for two weeks.\n\nOn 5 June, suppression of the protest was immortalized in Western media by the famous video footage and photographs of a lone man standing in front of a column of tanks driving out of Tiananmen Square. The iconic photo that would eventually make its way around the world was taken on 5 June on Chang'an Avenue. As the tank driver tried to go around him, the \"Tank Man\" moved into the tank's path. He continued to stand defiantly in front of the tanks for some time, then climbed up onto the turret of the lead tank to speak to the soldiers inside. After returning to his position in front of the tanks, the man was pulled aside by a group of people.\n\nA stopped convoy of 37 APCs on Changan Boulevard at Muxidi was forced to abandon their vehicles after becoming stuck among an assortment of burned out buses and military vehicles. In addition to occasional incidents of soldiers opening fire on civilians in Beijing, Western news outlets reported clashes between Units of the PLA. Late in the afternoon 26 tanks, three armored personnel carriers and supporting infantry took up defensive positions facing East at Jianguomen and Fuxingmen overpasses. Shellfire was heard throughout the night and the next morning a United States Marine in the Eastern part of the city reported spotting a damaged armored vehicle that had been disabled by an armor-piercing shell. The ongoing turmoil in the capital disrupted the flow of everyday life. No editions of the \"People's Daily\" were available in Beijing on 5 June despite assurances that they had been printed. Many shops, offices, and factories were not able to open as workers remained in their homes, and public transit services were limited to Subway and suburban bus routes.\n\nBy and large, the government regained control in the week following the military's seizure of the Square. A political purge followed in which officials responsible for organizing or condoning the protests were removed, and protest leaders jailed.\n\nAfter order was restored in Beijing on 4 June, protests of varying scales continued in some 80 other Chinese cities, outside of the spotlight the international press. In the British colony of Hong Kong, people again took to wearing black in solidarity with the demonstrators in Beijing. There were also protests in other countries, many adopting the use of black armbands as well.\n\nIn Shanghai, students marched on the streets on 5 June and erected roadblocks on major thoroughfares. Factory workers went on a general strike and took to the streets as well; railway traffic was also blocked. Public transport was also suspended and prevented people from getting to work. On 6 June, the municipal government tried to clear the rail blockade, but it was met with fierce resistance from the crowds. Several people were killed by being run over by the train. On 7 June, students from major Shanghai universities stormed various campus facilities to erect biers in commemoration of the dead in Beijing. The situation gradually came under control without use of deadly force. The municipal government gained recognition from the top leadership in Beijing for averting a major upheaval.\n\nIn the interior cities of Xi'an, Wuhan, Nanjing and Chengdu, many students continued protests after 4 June, often erecting roadblocks. In Xi'an, students stopped workers from entering factories. In Wuhan, students blocked the Yangtze River Railway bridge and another 4,000 gathered at the railway station. About one thousand students staged a railroad 'sit-in'. Rail traffic on the Beijing-Guangzhou and Wuhan-Dalian lines was interrupted. The students also urged employees of major state-owned enterprises to go on strike. In Wuhan the situation was so tense that residents reportedly began a bank run and resorted to panic-buying.\n\nSimilar scenes unfolded in Nanjing. On 7 June, hundreds of students staged a blockade at the Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge as well as the Zhongyangmen Railway Bridge. They were persuaded to evacuate without incident later that day, though returned the next day to occupy the main railway station and the bridges.\n\nThe atmosphere in Chengdu was more violent. On the morning of 4 June, police forcibly broke up the student demonstration taking place in Chengdu's main square. The resulting violence killed eight people, and injured hundreds. The most brutal attacks occurred on 5 and 6 June. Witnesses estimate that 30 to 100 bodies were thrown onto a truck after a crowd broke into the Jinjiang Hotel. According to Amnesty International, at least 300 people were killed in Chengdu on 5 June. Troops in Chengdu used concussion grenades, truncheons, knives and electric cattle prods against civilians. Hospitals were ordered to not accept students and on the second night the ambulance service was stopped by police.\n\nAt a news conference on 6 June, State Council spokesperson Yuan Mu announced that based on \"preliminary statistics\", \"nearly 300 people died [...] includ[ing] soldiers\", 23 students, \"bad elements who deserve[d] this because of their crimes, and people who were killed by mistake.\" The wounded, he said, included \"5,000 [police] officers and [soldiers]\" and over \"2,000 civilians, including the handful of lawless ruffians and the onlooking masses who do understand the situation.\" Military spokesperson Zhang Gong stated that no one was killed in Tiananmen Square and no one was run over by tanks in the Square.\n\nOn 9 June, Deng Xiaoping, appearing in public for the first time since the protests began, delivered a speech praising the \"martyrs\" (PLA soldiers who had died). Deng stated that the goal of the movement was to overthrow the party and the state. \"Their goal is to establish a totally Western-dependent bourgeois republic\", Deng said of the protesters. Deng argued that protesters had complained about corruption to cover their real motive, which was to replace the socialist system. He said that \"the entire imperialist Western world plans to make all socialist countries discard the socialist road and then bring them under the monopoly of international capital and onto the capitalist road\".\n\nThe civilians killed in the city of Beijing, according to the city police, \"included university professors, technical people, officials, workers, owners of small private enterprises, retired workers, high school students and grade school students, of whom the youngest was nine years old.\" The number of deaths and the extent of bloodshed in the Square itself have been in dispute since the events. As the Chinese authorities actively suppress discussion of the events as well as research of the subject, it is difficult to verify exact figures. As a result, large discrepancies exist among various casualty estimates.\n\nOfficial Chinese government announcements put the number of dead between zero and 300. At the State Council press conference on 6 June, spokesman Yuan Mu said that \"preliminary tallies\" by the government showed that about 300 civilians and soldiers died, including 23 students from universities in Beijing, along with a number of people he described as \"ruffians\". Yuan also said some 5,000 soldiers and police along with 2,000 civilians were wounded. On June 19, Beijing Party Secretary Li Ximing reported to the Politburo that the government's confirmed death toll was 241, including 218 civilians (of which 36 were students), 10 PLA soldiers and 13 People's Armed Police, along with 7,000 wounded. At an official Chinese Ministry of Defence briefing to foreign military attachés on 28 July, 38th Army Political Chief Li Zhiyun claimed that no one had been killed at Tiananmen.\n\nUnited States government files declassified in 2014 estimated there had been 10,454 deaths and 40,000 injured. This figure was from internal Chinese government files obtained from the Chinese government headquarters in Zhongnanhai. In British government files declassified and made public in December 2017, it was revealed that Alan Ewen Donald, who served as the United Kingdom's ambassador to China from 1988 to 1991, had reported in 1989 that a member of the State Council of the People's Republic of China had estimated the civilian death toll at 10,000.\n\nOther estimates of the death toll have been higher than the figures announced by the government. Nicholas D. Kristof, then Beijing bureau chief for \"The New York Times\", wrote on 21 June that \"it seems plausible that about a dozen soldiers and policemen were killed, along with 400 to 800 civilians.\" United States ambassador James Lilley said that, based on visits to hospitals around Beijing, a minimum of several hundred had been killed. In a 1990 article addressing the question, \"Time\" magazine said that the Chinese Red Cross had given a figure of 2,600 deaths on the morning of 4 June, though later this figure was retracted. A declassified National Security Agency cable filed on the same day estimated 180–500 deaths up to the morning of 4 June. Amnesty International's estimates puts the number of deaths at between several hundred and close to 1,000, while a Western diplomat who compiled estimates put the number at 300 to 1,000.\n\nThe Tiananmen Mothers, a victims' advocacy group co-founded by Ding Zilin and Zhang Xianling, whose children were killed during the crackdown, have identified 202 victims . The group has worked painstakingly, in the face of government interference, to locate victims' families and collect information about the victims. Their tally has grown from 155 in 1999 to 202 in 2011. The list includes four individuals who committed suicide on or after 4 June, for reasons that related to their involvement in the demonstrations.\n\nWu Renhua of the Chinese Alliance for Democracy, an overseas group agitating for democratic reform in China, said that he was only able to verify and identify 15 military deaths. Wu asserts that if deaths from events unrelated to demonstrators were removed from the count, only seven deaths among military personnel may be counted as those \"killed in action\" by rioters.\n\nOn 19 June, Beijing Party Secretary Li Ximing delivered the results of the official enquiry. More than 7,000 were wounded or injured and two hundred forty one killed, including thirty-six students, ten soldiers and thirteen People's Armed Police during a riot in Chang'An Road. Chinese government officials have long asserted that no one died in the Square itself in the early morning hours of 4 June, during the 'hold-out' of the last batch of students in the south of the Square. Initially foreign media reports of a \"massacre\" on the Square were prevalent, though subsequently journalists have acknowledged that most of the deaths occurred outside of the Square in western Beijing. Several people who were situated around the square that night, including former Beijing bureau chief of \"The Washington Post\" Jay Mathews and CBS correspondent Richard Roth reported that while they had heard sporadic gunfire, they could not find enough evidence to suggest that a massacre took place on the Square itself. Records by the Tiananmen Mothers suggest that three students died in the Square the night of the Army's push into the Square. Democracy activist Wu Renhua asserted that the government's discussion of the issue was a red herring intended to absolve itself of responsibility and showcase its benevolence. Wu said that it was irrelevant whether the shooting occurred inside or outside of the Square itself, as it was still a reprehensible massacre of unarmed civilians.\n\nThe authorities carried out mass arrests. Many workers were summarily tried and executed. In contrast, the students—many of whom came from relatively affluent backgrounds and were well-connected—received much lighter sentences. Wang Dan, the student leader who topped the most wanted list, spent seven years in prison. Many of the students and university staff implicated were permanently politically stigmatized, some never to be employed again. Some student leaders such as Chai Ling and Wuer Kaixi were able to escape to the United States, the United Kingdom, France and other Western nations under Operation Yellowbird that was organized from Hong Kong, a British territory at the time.\n\nSmaller protest actions continued in other cities for a few days. Some university staff and students who had witnessed the killings in Beijing organized or spurred commemorative events upon their return to school. At Shanghai's prestigious Jiaotong University, for example, the party secretary organized a public commemoration event, with engineering students producing a large metal wreath.\n\nAccording to the Dui Hua Foundation, citing a provincial government, 1,602 individuals were imprisoned for protest-related activities in the early 1989. , at least two remain incarcerated in Beijing and five others remain unaccounted for. In June 2014, it was reported that Miao Deshun was believed to be the last known prisoner incarcerated for their participation in the protests; he was last heard from a decade ago. All are reported to be suffering from mental illness.\n\nThe Party leadership expelled Zhao Ziyang from the Politburo Standing Committee (PSC). Hu Qili, another PSC member who opposed the martial law but abstained from voting, was also removed from the committee. He was, however, able to retain his party membership, and after \"changing his opinion\", was reassigned as deputy minister in the Ministry for Machinery and Electronics Industry. Another reform-minded Chinese leader, Wan Li, was also put under house arrest immediately after he stepped out of his plane at Beijing Capital Airport upon returning from his shortened trip abroad; the authorities declared his detention to be on health grounds. When Wan Li was released from his house arrest after he finally \"changed his opinion\" he, like Qiao Shi, was transferred to a different position with equal rank but a mostly ceremonial role. Several Chinese ambassadors abroad claimed political asylum.\nJiang Zemin, then Party Secretary of Shanghai, was promoted to General Secretary of the Communist Party. Jiang's decisive actions in Shanghai involving the \"World Economic Herald\" and his having prevented deadly violence in the city won him support from party elders in Beijing. Having put the new leadership team in place and recognising his weakened position, Deng Xiaoping himself also bowed out of the party leadership—at least officially—by resigning his last leadership position as Chairman of the Central Military Commission later that year. He kept a low profile until 1992. According to diplomatic cables de-classified by Canada, the Swiss ambassador informed Canadian diplomats in confidence that over several months following the massacre, \"every member of the Politburo Standing Committee has approached him about transferring very significant amounts of money to Swiss bank accounts\".\n\nBao Tong, Zhao Ziyang's aide, was the highest-ranking official to be formally charged with a crime in connection with 1989 demonstrations. He was convicted in 1992 of \"revealing state secrets and counter-revolutionary propagandizing\" and served seven years in prison. To purge sympathizers of Tiananmen demonstrators among the party's rank-and-file, the party leadership initiated a one-and-a-half-year-long rectification program to \"deal strictly with those inside the party with serious tendencies toward bourgeois liberalization\". Four million people were reportedly investigated for their role in the protests. More than 30,000 Communist officers were deployed to assess 'political reliability' of more than one million government officials. The authorities arrested tens if not hundreds of thousands of people across the country. Some were seized in broad daylight while they walked in the street; others were arrested at night. Many were jailed or sent to labor camps. They were often denied access to see their families and often put in cells so crowded that not everyone had space to sleep. Dissidents shared cells with murderers and rapists, and torture was not uncommon.\n\nThe suppression on June 4 marked the end of a period of relative press freedom in China and media workers—both foreign and domestic—faced heightened restrictions and punishment in the aftermath of the crackdown. State media reports in the immediate aftermath were sympathetic to the students. As a result, those responsible were all later removed from their posts. Two news anchors Xue Fei and Du Xian, who reported this event on June 4 in the daily \"Xinwen Lianbo\" broadcast on China Central Television were fired because they displayed sad emotions. Wu Xiaoyong, the son of former foreign minister Wu Xueqian was removed from the English Program Department of Chinese Radio International, ostensibly for his sympathies towards protesters. Editors and other staff at \"People's Daily\", including director Qian Liren and Editor-in-Chief Tan Wenrui, were also sacked because of reports in the paper which were sympathetic towards the protesters. Several editors were arrested.\n\nWith the imposition of martial law, the Chinese government cut off the satellite transmissions of foreign broadcasters such as CNN and CBS. Broadcasters tried to defy these orders by reporting via telephone. Footage was quickly smuggled out of the country. The only network which was able to record shots during the night of 4 June was Televisión Española of Spain (TVE). During the military action, some foreign journalists faced harassment from authorities. CBS correspondent Richard Roth and his cameraman were taken into custody while filing a report from the Square via mobile phone.\n\nSeveral foreign journalists who had covered the crackdown were expelled in the weeks that followed while others were harassed by authorities or blacklisted from reentering the country. In Shanghai, foreign consulates were told that the safety of journalists who failed to heed newly enacted reporting guidelines could not be guaranteed.\n\nThe USC U.S.-China Institute's \"Assignment: China\" series includes a segment on American media coverage of the protests and their suppression. \"Tiananmen Square\" features interviews with correspondents for the Associated Press and United Press International, \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Time\", the Voice of America, ABC, CBS and CNN.\n\nThe Chinese government's response was widely denounced, particularly by Western governments and media. Criticism came from both Western and Eastern Europe, North America, Australia and some west Asian and Latin American countries. Many Asian countries remained silent throughout the protests; the government of India responded to the massacre by ordering the state television to pare down the coverage to the barest minimum, so as not to jeopardize a thawing in relations with China, and to offer political empathy for the events. Cuba, Czechoslovakia and East Germany, among others, supported the Chinese government and denounced the protests. Overseas Chinese students demonstrated in many cities in Europe, America, the Middle East and Asia.\n\nOn 13 June 1989, the Beijing Public Security Bureau released an order for the arrest of 21 student leaders of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests. These 21 most wanted student leaders were part of the Beijing Students Autonomous Federation which had been an instrumental student organization in the Tiananmen Square protests. Prominent leaders such as Wang Dan, Wu'er Kaixi and Chai Ling topped the list. Immediately after the release of the list, only 7 out of the 21 Most Wanted escaped China, with assistance from the Hong-Kong based organization, Operation Yellowbird. Though decades have passed the Most Wanted list has never been retracted by the Chinese government.\n\nThe Beijing Public Security Bureau issued the 21 Most Wanted list with the following description:\n\nPhotographs with biographical descriptions of the 21 Most Wanted followed in this order on the poster:\n\nThe 21 most wanted student leaders faces and descriptions were broadcast on television as well and were constantly looped. Arrests were also broadcast, such as that of Most Wanted No. 21 Xiong Yan.\n\nEach of the 21 students faced diverse experiences after their arrests or escapes; while some remain abroad with no intent to return, others have chosen to stay indefinitely such as Zhang Ming. Only 7 of the 21 were able to escape, the remainder of the 21 student leaders were apprehended and incarcerated. Zhou Fengsuo was turned in by his own sister and arrested on 13 June 1989 in Xi'an. He was imprisoned for one year before being released in 1990 due to international pressures, along with 97 other political prisoners. Some served longer sentences than others, such as Wang Dan, one of the most visible leaders during the protests topping the most wanted list. Wang Dan continued his activist efforts after his parole release and was subsequently sentenced to 11 years for subversion. Liu Gang, who was arrested in Baoding in mid June, attempted to organize his fellow prisoners in defiance, by conducting a hunger strike. He had his arms lashed behind his back in a harsh position for several days while in prison. Many of those who initially escaped from the most wanted list were assisted by Operation Yellowbird and fled to the West. Those who escaped remain in exile today and have opened up about their experiences. Zhang Boli, number 17 on the list wrote a book titled \"Escape From China\" that details his experience during the protests and his escape. Those who escaped, whether it was in 1989 or after, generally have had difficulty re-entering China, even up to this day. The Chinese government prefers to leave the dissidents in exile. Those who attempt to re-enter, such as Wu'er Kaixi, have been simply sent back, but not arrested. In 2009, Xiong Yan, number 21 on the list, returned to China with a visit to Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, in order to mark the 20th anniversary the Tiananmen protests. Xiong Yan spent 19 months in jail, after his release he fled to the United States where he keeps in touch with Tiananmen activists and participates in pro-democracy events. Xiong was invited the southern Chinese enclave by the Hong Kong Alliance, which has been holding annual candlelight vigils on the 4 June anniversary Tiananmen protests. Many of the 21 who are in exile have joined human rights organizations or are now engaging in private business.\n\nNot all of the 21 most wanted are as well known as Chai Ling or Wang Dan. Others such Zhang Zhiqing have essentially disappeared. After his initial arrest in January 1991 and subsequent release, nothing further is known about his situation and where he lives now. Zhang Zhiqing's role and reason for being listed on the list of 21 most wanted is generally unknown; this is the case for many others on the list such Wang Chaohua. Other dissidents that are not as well known to the public include Zhou Fengsuo and Wang Zhengyun. Zhou Fengsuo was a physics student at Tsinghua University and a member of the Standing Committee of the Beijing Students Autonomous Federation during the protests. Fengsuo was turned in by his sister and arrested on June 13, 1989 in Xi'an. He was imprisoned for one year before being released in 1990 due to international pressures, along with 97 other political prisoners. Leaving China for the United States, he attended the University of Chicago. Steady in his activist roots he co-founded Humanitarian China, an organization that promotes rule of law in China and also raises money for Chinese political prisoners. Wang Zhengyun was a student of the Central University for Nationalities and was the only member of the Kucon ethnicity minority group to be studying at a university. Zhengyun was arrested on July 1989 and released two years later. He was sent back to his village in the Yunnan countryside. In December 1998, Wang was one of 19 dissidents, including Zhai Weimin, who staged a hunger strike to protest the oppression of CDP members and other dissidents.\n\nMa Shaofang and Yang Tao are another pair of dissidents that lack public attention despite their constant activist efforts. Ma Shaofang was a student of the Beijing Film Academy during the protests and turned himself in on 13 June 1989. In October 1990 he was sentenced to three years in prison for counterrevolutionary incitement. In May 1994, he participated with Wang Dan and other dissidents in a petition to the National People's Congress calling for a reassessment of 4 June. He has had issues in attempting to open a business and has had a series of short lived jobs ever since and is living in Shenzhen. Yang Tao, who was at one time the head of Beijing University's Autonomous Student Federation, remains in China today. He was initially charged as being an instigator of the counterrevolutionary rebellion and imprisoned for one year on 16 June 1989. In 1998, he wrote an open letter asking for the release of Wang Youcai. His continued efforts landed him in prison in 1999 after lobbying for the government to reverse the labeling of the protest as a \"counterrevolutionary rebellion\". He was originally arrested on charges of \"incitement to overthrow state political power.\" However, he was indicted on amended charges of tax evasion on 23 December due to lack of evidence and on 5 January 2003 was sentenced to four years in prison. He was released in May 2003. Yang too has had trouble earning a living.\n\nAmong the student leaders, Wang Dan and Zhao Changqing were arrested. As a lesser figure in the demonstrations, Zhao was released after six months in prison. However, he was once again incarcerated for continuing to petition for political reform in China. Wang Dan was sent to prison, then allowed to emigrate to the United States in 1998 on the grounds of medical parole. He eventually received a PhD from Harvard University and went on to teach modern Chinese history at National Tsing Hua University in Hsinchu, Taiwan. Wu'erkaixi fled to Taiwan and has since become a political commentator on Taiwanese national radio. Chai Ling fled to France and then went on to the United States to study at Princeton and Harvard. She then founded an IT start-up company and a non-profit organization called All Girls Allowed, which addresses issues such as women's rights and female infanticide in China. Li Lu became an investment banker and venture capitalist on Wall Street, started his own hedge fund and became a business partner to Charlie Munger of Berkshire Hathaway, partly through human rights contacts he was acquainted with as a result of his involvement at Tiananmen Square.\n\nChen Ziming and Wang Juntao were arrested in late 1989 for their involvement in the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests. Chinese authorities alleged they were the \"black hands\" behind the movement. Both Chen and Wang rejected the allegations made against them. They were put on trial in 1990 and sentenced to 13 years in prison.\n\nThe protests led to a strengthened role for the state. In its aftermath, many of the freedoms introduced during the 1980s were rescinded, as the party returned to a conventional Leninist mold and re-established firm control over the press, publishing, and mass media. The protests were also a blow to the separation of powers model established by the 1982 Constitution and by convention, whereby the President was a symbolic position (figurehead), and the real centres of power of the General Secretary of the Communist Party, the Premier of the State Council and the Chairman of the Central Military Commission were intended to be different people, to prevent the excesses of Mao-style personal rule.\n\nHowever, when President Yang Shangkun asserted his reserve powers with his post of Central Military Commission and openly split with general secretary Zhao Ziyang over the use of force to side with Premier Li Peng and Central Military Commission chairman Deng Xiaoping, official policy became inconsistent and incoherent, significantly impeding the exercise of power. In 1993, the positions of General Secretary, Central Military Commission Chairman and President were all consolidated into the same office, reverting to the previous Maoist distribution of power that had previously existed since 1972.\n\nIn 1989, neither the Chinese military nor the Beijing police had sufficient anti-riot gear, such as rubber bullets and tear gas. After the Tiananmen Square protests, riot police in Chinese cities were equipped with non-lethal equipment for riot control. The protests led to increased spending on internal security and expanded the role of the People's Armed Police in suppressing urban protests.\n\nThe aftermath of the protests saw the resurgence of conservative attitudes towards reform among policymakers, intended to slow the rapid changes that were said to have contributed to the causes of the protest. Deng Xiaoping, the \"architect\" of the reform policy, saw his influence significantly reduced following the protests, forcing him into making concessions with socialist hardliners. In dismissing Zhao Ziyang, who shared Deng's vision for economic reform but disagreed with him over politics, Deng had lost the foremost champion of his own economic vision. Facing pressure from the conservative camp, Deng distanced himself from state affairs.\n\nThis slow pace of reform was met with stiff resistance from provincial governors and broke down completely in the early 1990s as a result of the dissolution of the Soviet Union and Deng's Southern Tour of 1992, designed by the ailing but influential leader as a means to reinstate his economic reform agenda. On the tour, Deng criticized the leftist hardliners that had gained power following the protests, and praised entrepreneurship and other market-driven policies. Initially ignored by Beijing, the Chinese Politburo eventually sided with Deng and economic reforms again gained prominence.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the Tiananmen square protests led to fears that China would renege on its commitments under one country, two systems following the impending handover of Hong Kong from the United Kingdom in 1997. In response, Governor Chris Patten tried to expand the franchise for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong, which led to friction with Beijing. For many Hong Kongers, Tiananmen served as a turning point for when they lost trust in the Beijing government. The event, coupled with general uncertainty about the status of Hong Kong after the transfer of sovereignty, led to a sizeable exodus of Hong Kongers to Western countries such as Canada and Australia prior to 1997.\n\nThere have been large candlelight vigils attended by tens of thousands in Hong Kong every year since 1989 even after the transfer of power to China in 1997. The June 4th Museum closed in July 2016, after only two years in its location. The group that runs the museum, the Hong Kong Alliance, has started to crowdfund money to open the museum in a new location.\n\nThe Chinese government drew widespread condemnation for its suppression of the protests. In its immediate aftermath, China seemed to be becoming a pariah state, increasingly isolated internationally. This was a significant setback for the leadership, who had courted international investment for much of the 1980s as the country emerged from the chaos of the Cultural Revolution. However, Deng Xiaoping and the core leadership vowed to continue economic liberalization policies after 1989. From there on, China would work domestically as well as internationally to reshape its national image from that of a repressive regime to a benign global economic and military partner.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, officials such as Yang Shangkun, Li Peng and others sought to return to a planned economy. Deng Xiaoping largely stayed out of politics until his groundbreaking 1992 \"southern tour\", which was intended to re-instate policies of economic liberalization. Along with the liberalization came the loosening of state control in many areas of daily life. Privately run print media flourished. Private newspapers increased from 250 in the 1980s to over 7,000 by 2003. Provincially run satellite TV stations sprung up all over the country and challenged the market share of state-run CCTV. The leadership also stepped away from promoting communism as an all-encompassing belief system. State-approved religious organizations increased their membership significantly, and traditional beliefs suppressed during the Mao era re-appeared. This state-sanctioned plurality also created the environment for unsanctioned forms of spirituality and worship to grow. In order to reduce the need for controversial methods of state control, while Protestants, Buddhists, and Taoists were largely left alone, the state often used these 'approved' denominations to \"fight against cults\" such as Falun Gong, playing sects off each other.\n\nAs the party departed from the orthodox communism it was founded upon, much of its attention was focused on the cultivation of nationalism as an alternative ideology. This policy largely succeeded in tying the party's legitimacy to China's \"national pride\", turning public opinions in its favour. This is perhaps most prominently seen in May 1999, when the United States bombed the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. The bombings saw an outpouring of nationalist sentiment and increased support for the party as the foremost advocate of China's national interest.\n\nFacing global condemnation for their handling of the protests in 1989, China has endeavored to demonstrate its willingness to participate in international economic and defense institutions in order to secure investment for continued economic reforms. Before the end of 1991, China normalized ties with the Russian government's newly elected president, Boris Yeltsin. China also welcomed Taiwanese business as a replacement for Western investment. Further, China expedited negotiations with the World Trade Organization as well as established relations with Indonesia, Israel, South Korea and others in 1992. Regarding defense alignments, the government signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1992, the Convention on Chemical Weapons in 1993 and the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in 1996. Whereas China had been a member of just 30 international organizations in 1986, this membership increased to over 50 by 1997. Finally, while China was a net recipient of aid throughout the 1980s, its growing economic and military role transformed it into a provider of aid, with $100 million given to Thailand in 1997 alone.\n\nFurthermore, the government has successfully promoted China as an attractive destination for investment by emphasizing the country's skilled workers, comparatively lower wages, established infrastructure, and sizeable consumer base. Increased foreign investment in the country led many world leaders to believe that by constructively engaging China in the global marketplace, political reforms would inevitably follow. At the same time, the explosion of commercial interest in the country opened the way for multinational corporations to turn a blind eye to politics and human rights in favour of doing business. Since then, Western leaders who were previously critical of China have generally paid lip service to the legacy of Tiananmen, but the substance of bilateral relationships focus on business and trade interests.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the events of Tiananmen in 1989 have become permanently etched in the public consciousness, perhaps more than anywhere else outside mainland China. The events continue to have a strong impact on perceptions of China, its government, attitudes towards democracy, and the extent to which Hong Kongers should identify as Chinese. The events of 4 June are seen as emblematic of the Chinese brand of authoritarianism and is prominently discussed in Hong Kong's political circles, often in relation to democratic reform in Hong Kong and the territory's relationship with Beijing. Academic studies indicate that those who supported the rehabilitation of the Tiananmen Square movement had a tendency to support democratization in the territory as well as the election of pro-democracy parties.\n\nThere was a significant impact on the Chinese economy after the incident. The ramifications of the Tiananmen Square protests led to changes in China's economic direction, and these reverberated not only internationally, but also domestically from within the Chinese government themselves. These events led to the Chinese government concentrating power, especially over the direction of the economy. While there was a slowdown immediately after the massacre, the economy quickly rebounded during the 1990s. After the Tiananmen Square protests, many analysts downgraded their outlook of China's economic future. The Chinese Communist Party's response to the protests was one of the factors that led to a delay in China's acceptance to the World Trade Organization and China did not become a member until twelve years later on 11 December 2001. Furthermore, bilateral aid to China decreased from $3.4 billion in 1988 to $1.5 billion in 1989, and to $0.7 billion in 1990. Loans to China were suspended by the World Bank, Asian Development Bank, and foreign governments; tourism revenue decreased from US$2.2 billion to US$1.8 billion; foreign direct investment commitments were cancelled and there was a rise in defense spending from 8.6% in 1986, to 15.5% in 1990, reversing a previous 10 year decline.\n\nAlthough the Bush administration had wanted to normalize and improve relations with China, the violent crackdown of the protests on June 4, 1989, led to his administration banning all sales of weapons to China on June 5. Similar to the Bush administrations initiatives, other countries imposed their own sanctions in response to Tiananmen. By July 1989, the G7 had halted $10 billion in foreign aid, loans from Japan as well as $780 million in bank loans by the World Bank for the end of June. These coordinated actions hurt the Chinese economy, leading to a decline in international investment, a reduction in the number of tourists, as well as a decline in China's credit rating. However, most of these sanctions were eased and lifted by the early 1990s and China's economy rebounded.\n\nBecause of the mainly negative world reaction to China's Tiananmen response, as well as internal conflict regarding whether China should continue on a path of economic liberalization, leadership in China pursued a self-imposed enforcement of party discipline. Although political liberals were purged from the Chinese Communist Party, many of those who were economically liberal remained. This led to a restructuring within the Chinese Communist Party. Even though more reformed-minded leaders such as Zhao Ziyang were purged from the Communist Party ranks by leaders like Deng Xiaoping, the economically liberal side prevailed as it helped the Chinese economy regain and later surpass the slowdown it had experienced after the Tiananmen Square protests. Deng was of the main forces behind China's economic reform.\n\nChinese Premier Li Peng visited the United Nations Security Council on 31 January 1992 and argued that the economic and arms embargoes on China were a violation of national sovereignty.\n\nThe European Union and United States embargo on armament sales to China, put in place as a result of the violent suppression of the Tiananmen Square protests, remains in place today. China has been calling for a lift of the ban for years and has had a varying amount of support from European Union members. Since 2004, China has portrayed the ban as \"outdated\" and damaging to China–European Union relations. In early 2004, French President Jacques Chirac spearheaded a movement within the European Union to lift the ban, which was supported by German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder. However, the passing of the Anti-Secession Law of the People's Republic of China in March 2005 increased tensions between mainland China and Taiwan, damaging attempts to lift the ban and several European Union Council members retracted their support for a lift of the ban. Moreover, Schröder's successor Angela Merkel opposed lifting the ban. Members of the United States Congress had also proposed restrictions on the transfer of military technology to the European Union if the latter lifted the ban. The United Kingdom also opposed the lifting of the embargo when it took charge of the European Union presidency in July 2005.\n\nIn addition, the European Parliament has consistently opposed the lifting of the arms embargo to China. Though its agreement is not necessary for lifting the ban, many argue it reflects the will of the European people better as it is the only directly elected European body. The arms embargo has limited China's options from where it may seek military hardware. Among the sources that were sought included the former Soviet bloc that it had a strained relationship with as a result of the Sino-Soviet split. Other willing suppliers have previously included Israel and South Africa, but American pressure has restricted this co-operation.\n\nThe Communist Party of China forbids discussion of the Tiananmen Square protests and has taken measures to block or censor related information. Textbooks have little, if any, information about the protests. After the protests, officials banned controversial films and books, and shut down many newspapers. Within a year, 12% of all newspapers, 8% of publishing companies, 13% of social science periodicals and more than 150 films were banned or shut down. The government also announced it had seized 32 million contraband books and 2.4 million video and audio cassettes. Access to media and Internet resources on the subject are restricted or blocked by censors. Banned literature and films include \"Summer Palace\", \"Forbidden City\", \"Collection of June Fourth Poems\", \"The Critical Moment: Li Peng diaries\" and any writings of Zhao Ziyang or his aide Bao Tong, including . However, contraband and Internet copies of these publications can be found.\n\nThe party's official stance towards the incident is that the use of force was necessary in order to control a \"political disturbance\" and that it ensured the stability necessary for economic prosperity. Chinese leaders, including former paramount leaders Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao, reiterate this line when questioned by foreign press.\n\nPublic memory of the Tiananmen Square protests has been suppressed by the authorities since 1989. Print media containing reference to the protests must be consistent with the government's version of events. Currently, many Chinese citizens are reluctant to speak about the protests because of potential repercussions. Rob Gifford held that many young people born after 1980 are unfamiliar with the events and are apathetic about politics. Youth in China are generally unaware of the events, of the symbols such as tank man, or of the significance of the date June 4 itself. Some older intellectuals no longer aspire for political change and instead focus on economic issues.\n\nWhile public discussion of the events has become a social taboo, private discussions continue to take place despite frequent interference and harassment from the authorities. Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo remained in China to speak out about Tiananmen in the 1990s despite offers of asylum; he faced constant surveillance. Zhang Xianling and Ding Zilin, mothers of victims who lost their lives in 1989, founded the Tiananmen Mothers organization and were particularly outspoken on the humanitarian aspects of the subject. The authorities mobilize security forces, including members of the People's Armed Police, every year on June 4 to prevent public displays of remembrance, with especially heavy security for major anniversaries such as the 20th anniversary in 2009 and the 25th anniversary in 2014. Journalists have been frequently denied entry to the Square on anniversaries. In addition, the authorities are known to have detained foreign journalists and increase surveillance on prominent human rights activists during this time of year.\n\nInternet searches of 4 June Tiananmen Square made within China return censored results or result in temporarily severed server connections. Specific web pages with select keywords are censored while other websites, such as those of overseas Chinese democracy movements, are blocked wholesale. The censorship, however, has been inconsistent—with many sites being blocked, unblocked and re-blocked over the years, including YouTube, Wikipedia and Flickr. In addition, the policy is much more stringent with Chinese-language sites than foreign-language ones. Social media censorship is more stringent during anniversaries; even oblique references to the protests are usually deleted within hours. In January 2006, Google agreed to censor their mainland China site to remove information about Tiananmen and other subjects considered sensitive by the authorities. Google withdrew its cooperation on censorship in January 2010.\n\nOver the years some Chinese citizens have called for a reassessment of the protests and compensation from the government to victims' families. One group in particular, Tiananmen Mothers, seeks compensation, vindication for victims and the right to receive donations from within the mainland and abroad. Zhang Shijun, a former soldier who was involved in the military crackdown, had published an open letter to President Hu Jintao seeking to have the government reevaluate its position on the protests. He was subsequently arrested and taken from his home.\n\nAlthough the Chinese government never officially acknowledged relevant accusations when it came to the incident, in April 2006 a payment was made to the mother of one of the victims, the first publicized case of the government offering redress to a Tiananmen-related victim's family. The payment was termed a \"hardship assistance\", given to Tang Deying (唐德英) whose son Zhou Guocong () died at age 15 years while in police custody in Chengdu on 6 June 1989, two days after the Chinese Army dispersed the Tiananmen protesters. She was reportedly paid CNY70,000 (approximately US$10,250). This has been welcomed by various Chinese activists, but it was regarded by some as a measure to maintain social stability and not believed to herald a changing of the party's official position.\n\nBefore his death in 1998, Yang Shangkun told army doctor Jiang Yanyong that 4 June was the most serious mistake committed by the Communist Party in its history, a mistake that Yang himself could not correct, but one that certainly will eventually be corrected. Zhao Ziyang remained under house arrest until his death in 2005. Zhao's aide Bao Tong has repeatedly called on the government to reverse the verdict for the demonstrations. Chen Xitong, the mayor of Beijing, who read the martial law order and was later disgraced by a political scandal, expressed regret for the death of innocent civilians in 2012, a year before his death. Premier Wen Jiabao reportedly suggested reversing the government's position on Tiananmen in party meetings prior to his departure from politics in 2013, only to be rebuffed by his colleagues.\n\nThe Committee Against Torture met for its 41st session from 3–21 November 2008 to consider reports submitted by member states under article 19 of the Convention. The Committee found that China's response to the 1989 Democracy movement was worrying. The Committee was concerned that despite the multiple requests by relatives of people \"killed, arrested or disappeared on or following the 4 June 1989 Beijing suppression\", there was a lack of investigations into these matters. It was also concerned with the failure of the Chinese government to inform families of the fate of relatives involved, and it regretted that those responsible for the use of excessive force have not \"faced any sanction, administrative or criminal.\" The Committee recommended the following:\nThe State party should conduct a full and impartial investigation into the suppression of the Democracy Movement in Beijing in June\n1989, provide information on the persons who are still detained from that period, inform the family members of their findings, offer apologies and reparation as appropriate and prosecute those found responsible for excessive use of force, torture and other illtreatment.\n\nIn December 2009, the Chinese government responded to the Committee's recommendations by saying that the government had closed the case concerning the \"political turmoil in the spring and summer of 1989.\" It also stated that the \"practice of the past 20 years has made it clear that the timely and decisive measures taken by the Chinese Government at the time were necessary and correct.\" It claimed that the labelling of the \"incident as 'the Democracy Movement'\" is a \"distortion in the nature of the incident.\" According to the Chinese Government these observations were \"inconsistent with the Committee's responsibilities.\"\n\nIn 1995, Richard Gordon and Carma Hinton produced \"The Gate of Heavenly Peace\" an award-winning three-hour documentary film about the Tiananmen Square protests. The film contains interviews with Liu Xiaobo, Wang Dan, Wu'erkaixi, Han Dongfang, Ding Zilin, Chai Ling, Dai Qing, Feng Congde, and Hou Dejian.\n\nThe same year saw the release of \"Moving the Mountain\" a feature documentary directed by Michael Apted and produced by Trudie Styler, with cinematography by Maryse Alberti. The film takes its title from the memoir by Li Lu, one of the student leaders of the Tiananmen Square protests. Though Li Lu is a central figure in the finished film, the project set out to provide a comprehensive understanding of the events leading up to and following the protests and features many other interviews.\n\nA primetime special hosted by Tom Brokaw honored both the Tiananmen Square pro-democracy demonstrations in Beijing and the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, a momentous year for human rights around the world.\n\nIn April 2006, the PBS series \"Frontline\" produced an episode titled \"The Tank Man\", which examined his role in the 1989 Tiananmen Square Protests and the change that has overtaken China economically and politically since.\n\nOn 3 June 2009, the BBC aired the documentary \"Kate Adie returns to Tiananmen\" in which documented reporter Kate Adie's return to China, where Adie recalls the events she witnessed in 1989.\n\nIn May 1998, Indonesian general Prabowo Subianto threatened a \"Tiananmen Square massacre\" in Jakarta to suppress student-led demonstrations against President Suharto.\n\nCNN news anchor Kyra Phillips drew criticism in March 2006 when she compared the 2006 youth protests in France, in which it was later determined that no one was killed, to the Tiananmen Square protests, saying: \"Sort of brings back memories of Tiananmen Square, when you saw these activists in front of tanks.\"\n\nIn February 2011, Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, in response to an uprising in Benghazi against his rule, held up China's 1989 military assault on Tiananmen Square as an example of how to deal with popular unrest. Chinese media censored Gaddafi's reference to Tiananmen Square.\n\nSince Tiananmen, the iconic \"Tank Man\" image has become a worldwide symbol for civil disobedience. What happened to the \"Tank Man\" following the demonstration is not known. Some say he was pulled away and went into hiding, others say he was executed by the authorities. \"Time\" dubbed him \"The Unknown Rebel\" and later named him one of the . In an interview with United States media, then Chinese paramount leader Jiang Zemin said he did not think the man was killed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52970153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52970153", "title": "Access to public information in Georgia", "text": "Access to public information in Georgia\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right to access information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right to access public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law. \n\nFreedom of Information (FOI) in Georgia is regulated by chapter 3 of the General Administrative code of Georgia, which is in force since 1999. Despite the fact that the ensuring legal framework on freedom of information contains sound provisions, in view of the existing international standards and practices, as well as existing practices in Georgia, the act is considered outdated In 2013 the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Anti-Corruption Network noted that Georgia's FOI provisions would benefit from a comprehensive and wide revisions.\n\nIn recent years, Georgian civil society organisations have advocated for improvements of the law, and the Government took obligation to elaborate a new law on freedom of information. The adoption of a new Freedom of Information law is one of the Georgian Government's commitments in the framework of its annual action plan for the implementation of the Association Agreement between the EU and Georgia signed in 2014.\n\nThe existing law states that all public information is open except for the cases established by the law and the information covered by privacy rights or commercial secret. In Georgia, anyone is entitled to request public information. The applicants do not have to specify the reasons for their request. An applicant has the option to be allowed to view the original of the information required or to ask for a copy. Requests for information should be made in writing, including via electronic means. Fees for the provision of public information are expressly prohibited by the law, except for covering the actual costs for producing copies.\n\nPublic institutions are obliged to provide the requested information immediately or not later than within 10 working days of the application. Applicants must be notified of the refusal to disclose information immediately and must be given, within 3 days of the refusal, a written explanation of the reason for denial and with information on the appeals procedures. In the appeal procedures, aiming at challenging the denial decision of a public institution, the burden of the proof lies with the public institutions.\n\nThe Georgian law also establishes that public bodies have to proactively publish information, that is without the need of sending a request, according to the rules set forth in secondary legislation, namely in the amendment made to the General Administrative Code of Georgia in 2012 on proactive disclosure and electronic request of public information.\n\nPublic institutions are obliged to report annually to Parliament, the President and the Prime Minister on their compliance with access to information law and provide updated statistics and data.\n\nOne of the most important novelties of the draft elaborated by civil society and experts is the establishment of the office of the Information Commissioner, a new institution with the mandate of monitoring the application of the law, revealing cases of misconduct and taking action to protect the right to public information. This would address one of the major gaps in existing legislation, i.e. the lack of a designed central body with the power to oversee the compliance of public institutions with existing regulations. Another shortcoming of the current legal framework concerns the lack of a sanctions system in cases of non-compliance. Also, the exceptions for non-disclosure are ambiguous and not clearly defined in the law which does not cover state-owned enterprises.\n\nThe shortcomings of the law have resulted in an uneven application of the right to access to information in practice. In this process, the judiciary has not proven to be an effective means of dealing with the refusals of some public institutions to push them to disclose the required information.\n\nAccess to information law is poorly enforced in Georgia and its application remains a problem. A local NGO, the Institute for Development of Freedom of Information (IDFI), has conducted a comprehensive analysis assessing the implementation of the law and the compliance of public institutions to it, carrying out a series of large-scale FOI tests between 2010-2015.\n\nThe IDFI study shows that in the period monitored, 24% of the request filed by the organisation remained unanswered. A complete answer was received in 64% of cases and an incomplete one in 10%, while the refusal to provide the information required occurred in 2% of the cases. In terms of annual evaluation, the overall response rate was the worst in 2010-11, while it improved significantly in 2012-13 - as a result of the 2012 parliamentary elections - but started to deteriorate again in 2014. Over time, the rate of provision of the requested information within the deadline established by the law improved significantly, ranging from 22% of 2010 to 75% of 2015. The assessment also found out great variations between public agencies with regard to their compliance with the law: for instance, some ministers recorded a 100% response rate, others provided a complete answer in less than 50% of the cases, while the lowest score concerned the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development with a mere 10% in the rating.\n\n"}
{"id": "15795950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15795950", "title": "Activity recognition", "text": "Activity recognition\n\nActivity recognition aims to recognize the actions and goals of one or more agents from a series of observations on the agents' actions and the environmental conditions. Since the 1980s, this research field has captured the attention of several computer science communities due to its strength in providing personalized support for many different applications and its connection to many different fields of study such as medicine, human-computer interaction, or sociology.\n\nDue to its many-faceted nature, different fields may refer to activity recognition as plan recognition, goal recognition, intent recognition, behavior recognition, location estimation and location-based services.\n\nSensor-based activity recognition integrates the emerging area of sensor networks with novel data mining and machine learning techniques to model a wide range of human activities. Mobile devices (e.g. smart phones) provide sufficient sensor data and calculation power to enable physical activity recognition to provide an estimation of the energy consumption during everyday life. Sensor-based activity recognition researchers believe that by empowering ubiquitous computers and sensors to monitor the behavior of agents (under consent), these computers will be better suited to act on our behalf.\n\nSensor-based activity recognition is a challenging task due to the inherent noisy nature of the input. Thus, statistical modeling has been the main thrust in this direction in layers, where the recognition at several intermediate levels is conducted and connected. At the lowest level where the sensor data are collected, statistical learning concerns how to find the detailed locations of agents from the received signal data. At an intermediate level, statistical inference may be concerned about how to recognize individuals' activities from the inferred location sequences and environmental conditions at the lower levels. Furthermore, at the highest level a major concern is to find out the overall goal or subgoals of an agent from the activity sequences through a mixture of logical and statistical reasoning.\n\nRecognizing activities for multiple users using on-body sensors first appeared in the work by ORL using active badge systems in the early 90's. Other sensor technology such as acceleration sensors were used for identifying group activity patterns during office scenarios. Activities of Multiple Users in intelligent environments are addressed in Gu et al. In this work, they investigate the fundamental problem of recognizing activities for multiple users from sensor readings in a home environment, and propose a novel pattern mining approach to recognize both single-user and multi-user activities in a unified solution.\n\nRecognition of group activities is fundamentally different from single, or multi-user activity recognition in that the goal is to recognize the behavior of the group as an entity, rather than the activities of the individual members within it. Group behavior is emergent in nature, meaning that the properties of the behavior of the group are fundamentally different then the properties of the behavior of the individuals within it, or any sum of that behavior. The main challenges are in modeling the behavior of the individual group members, as well as the roles of the individual within the group dynamic and their relationship to emergent behavior of the group in parallel. Challenges which must still be addressed include quantification of the behavior and roles of individuals who join the group, integration of explicit models for role description into inference algorithms, and scalability evaluations for very large groups and crowds. Group activity recognition has applications for crowd management and response in emergency situations, as well as for social networking and Quantified Self applications.\n\nLogic-based approaches keep track of all logically consistent explanations of the observed actions. Thus, all possible and consistent plans or goals must be considered. Kautz provided a formal theory of plan recognition. He described plan recognition as a logical inference process of circumscription. All actions, plans are uniformly referred to as goals, and a recognizer's knowledge is represented by a set of first-order statements called event hierarchy encoded in first-order logic, which defines abstraction, decomposition and functional relationships between types of events.\n\nKautz's general framework for plan recognition has an exponential time complexity in worst case, measured in the size of input hierarchy. Lesh and Etzioni went one step further and presented methods in scaling up goal recognition to scale up his work computationally. In contrast to Kautz's approach where the plan library is explicitly represented, Lesh and Etzioni's approach enables automatic plan-library construction from domain primitives. Furthermore, they introduced compact representations and efficient algorithms for goal recognition on large plan libraries.\n\nInconsistent plans and goals are repeatedly pruned when new actions arrive. Besides, they also presented methods for adapting a goal recognizer to handle individual idiosyncratic behavior given a sample of an individual's recent behavior. Pollack et al. described a direct argumentation model that can know about the relative strength of several kinds of arguments for belief and intention description.\n\nA serious problem of logic-based approaches is their inability or inherent infeasibility to represent uncertainty. They offer no mechanism for preferring one consistent approach to another and incapable of deciding whether one particular plan is more likely than another, as long as both of them can be consistent enough to explain the actions observed. There is also a lack of learning ability associated with logic based methods.\n\nAnother approach to logic-based activity recognition is to use stream reasoning based on Answer Set Programming, and has been applied to recognising activities for health-related applications, which uses weak constraints to model a degree of ambiguity/uncertainty.\n\nProbability theory and statistical learning models are more recently applied in activity recognition to reason about actions, plans and goals under uncertainty. In the literature, there have been several approaches which explicitly represent uncertainty in reasoning about an agent's plans and goals.\n\nUsing sensor data as input, Hodges and Pollack designed machine learning-based systems for identifying individuals as they perform routine daily activities such as making coffee. Intel Research (Seattle) Lab and University of Washington at Seattle have done some important works on using sensors to detect human plans. Some of these works infer user transportation modes from readings of radio-frequency identifiers (RFID) and global positioning systems (GPS).\n\nThe use of temporal probabilistic models has been shown to perform well in activity recognition and generally outperform non-temporal models. Generative models such as the Hidden Markov Model (HMM) and the more generally formulated Dynamic Bayesian Networks (DBN) are popular choices in modelling activities from sensor data.\nDiscriminative models such as Conditional Random Fields (CRF) are also commonly applied and also give good performance in activity recognition.\n\nGenerative and discriminative models both have their pros and cons and the ideal choice depends on their area of application. A dataset together with implementations of a number of popular models (HMM, CRF) for activity recognition can be found here.\n\nConventional temporal probabilistic models such as the hidden Markov model (HMM) and conditional random fields (CRF) model directly model the correlations between the activities and the observed sensor data. In recent years, increasing evidence has supported the use of hierarchical models which take into account the rich hierarchical structure that exists in human behavioral data. The core idea here is that the model does not directly correlate the activities with the sensor data, but instead breaks the activity into sub-activities (sometimes referred to as actions) and models the underlying correlations accordingly. An example could be the activity of preparing spaghetti, which can be broken down into the subactivities or actions of cutting vegetables, frying the vegetables in a pan and serving it on a plate. Examples of such a hierarchical model are Layered Hidden Markov Models (LHMMs) and the hierarchical hidden Markov model (HHMM), which have been shown to significantly outperform its non-hierarchical counterpart in activity recognition.\n\nDifferent from traditional machine learning approaches, an approach based on data mining has been recently proposed. In the work of Gu et al., the problem of activity recognition is formulated as a pattern-based classification problem. They proposed a data mining approach based on discriminative patterns which describe significant changes between any two activity classes of data to recognize sequential, interleaved and concurrent activities in a unified solution. Gilbert \"et al.\" use 2D corners in both space and time. These are grouped spatially and temporally using a hierarchical process, with an increasing search area. At each stage of the hierarchy, the most distinctive and descriptive features are learned efficiently through data mining (Apriori rule).\n\nIt is a very important and challenging problem to track and understand the behavior of agents through videos taken by various cameras. The primary technique employed is computer vision. Vision-based activity recognition has found many applications such as human-computer interaction, user interface design, robot learning, and surveillance, among others.\nScientific conferences where vision based activity recognition work often appears are ICCV and CVPR.\n\nIn vision-based activity recognition, a great deal of work has been done. Researchers have attempted a number of methods such as optical flow, Kalman filtering, Hidden Markov models, etc., under different modalities such as single camera, stereo, and infrared. In addition, researchers have considered multiple aspects on this topic, including single pedestrian tracking, group tracking, and detecting dropped objects.\n\nRecently some researchers have used RGBD cameras like Microsoft Kinect to detect human activities. Depth cameras add extra dimension i.e. depth which normal 2d camera fails to provide. Sensory information from these depth cameras have been used to generate real-time skeleton model of humans with different body positions. These skeleton information provides meaningful information that researchers have used to model human activities which are trained and later used to recognize unknown activities.\n\nDespite remarkable progress of vision-based activity recognition, its usage for most actual visual surveillance applications remains a distant aspiration. Conversely, the human brain seems to have perfected the ability to recognize human actions. This capability relies not only on acquired knowledge, but also on the aptitude of extracting information relevant to a given context and logical reasoning. Based on this observation, it has been proposed to enhance vision-based activity recognition systems by integrating commonsense reasoning and, contextual and commonsense knowledge. Experiments performed using video and RGBD cameras demonstrate the added value of such approach .\n\nIn vision-based activity recognition, the computational process is often divided into four steps, namely human detection, human tracking, human activity recognition and then a high-level activity evaluation.\n\nIn computer vision-based activity recognition, fine-grained action localization typically provides per-image segmentation masks delineating the human object and its action category (e.g., \"Segment-Tube\"). Techniques such as dynamic Markov Networks, CNN and LSTM are often employed to exploit the semantic correlations between consecutive video frames.\n\nOne way to identify specific people is by how they walk. Gait-recognition software can be used to record a person's gait or gait feature profile in a database for the purpose of recognizing that person later, even if they are wearing a disguise.\n\nWhen activity recognition is performed indoors and in cities using the widely available Wi-Fi signals and 802.11 access points, there is much noise and uncertainty. These uncertainties can be modeled using a dynamic Bayesian network model. In a multiple goal model that can reason about user's interleaving goals,a deterministic state transition model is applied. Another possible method models the concurrent and interleaving activities in a probabilistic approach. A user action discovery model could segment Wi-Fi signals to produce possible actions.\n\nBy automatically monitoring human activities, home-based rehabilitation can be provided for people suffering from traumatic brain injuries. One can find applications ranging from security-related applications and logistics support to location-based services.\n\n"}
{"id": "2494366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494366", "title": "Akrasia", "text": "Akrasia\n\nAkrasia (; Greek , \"lacking command\"), occasionally transliterated as acrasia or Anglicised as acrasy or acracy, is described as a lack of self-control or the state of acting against one's better judgment. The adjectival form is \"akratic\".\n\nThe problem goes back at least as far as Plato. In Plato's \"Protagoras\" Socrates asks precisely how it is possible that, \"if\" one judges action A to be the best course of action, one would do anything other than A?\n\nIn the dialogue \"Protagoras\", Socrates attests that akrasia does not exist, claiming \"No one goes willingly toward the bad\" (358d). If a person examines a situation and decides to act in the way he determines to be best, he will pursue this action, as the best course is also the good course, i.e. man's natural goal. An all-things-considered assessment of the situation will bring full knowledge of a decision's outcome and worth linked to well-developed principles of the good. A person, according to Socrates, never chooses to act poorly or against his better judgment; and, therefore, actions that go against what is best are simply a product of being ignorant of facts or knowledge of what is best or good.\n\nAristotle, on the other hand, took a more empirical approach to the question, acknowledging that we intuitively believe in akrasia. He distances himself from the Socratic position by locating the breakdown of reasoning in an agent’s opinion, not his appetition. Now, without recourse to appetitive desires, Aristotle reasons that akrasia occurs as a result of opinion. Opinion is formulated mentally in a way that may or may not imitate truth, while appetites are merely desires of the body. Thus, opinion is only incidentally aligned with or opposed to the good, making an akratic action the product of opinion instead of reason. For Aristotle, the antonym of \"akrasia\" is \"enkrateia\", which means \"in power\" (over oneself).\n\nThe word \"akrasia\" occurs twice in the Koine Greek New Testament. In Jesus uses it to describe hypocritical religious leaders, translated \"self-indulgence\" in several translations, including the English Standard version. Paul the Apostle also gives the threat of temptation through akrasia as a reason for a husband and wife to not deprive each other of sex (). In another passage (Rom. 7:15–25) Paul, without actually using the term \"akrasia\", seems to reference the same psychological phenomenon in discussing the internal conflict between, on the one hand, \"the law of God,\" which he equates with \"the law of my mind\"; and \"another law in my members,\" identified with \"the flesh, the law of sin.\" \"For the good that I would do, I do not; but the evil which I would not, that I do.\" (v.19)\n\nIn Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\", book II, Acrasia, the embodiment of intemperance dwelling in the \"Bower of Bliss\", had the Circe-like capacity of transforming her lovers into monstrous animal shapes.\n\nDonald Davidson (1969–1980) attempted to solve the problem by first criticizing earlier thinkers who wanted to limit the scope of akrasia to agents who despite having reached a rational decision were somehow swerved off their \"desired\" tracks. Indeed, Davidson expands akrasia to include any judgment that is reached but not fulfilled, whether it be as a result of an opinion, a real or imagined good, or a moral belief. \"[T]he puzzle I shall discuss depends only on the attitude or belief of the agent…my subject concerns evaluative judgments, whether they are analyzed cognitively, prescriptively, or otherwise.\" Thus, he expands akrasia to include cases in which the agent seeks to fulfill desires, for example, but ends up denying himself the pleasure he has deemed most choice-worthy.\n\nDavidson sees the problem as one of reconciling the following apparently inconsistent triad:\n\nDavidson solves the problem by saying that, when people act in this way, they temporarily believe that the worse course of action is better, because they have not made an all-things-considered judgment, but only a judgment based on a subset of possible considerations.\n\nAnother contemporary philosopher, Amélie Rorty (1980) has tackled the problem by distilling out akrasia's many forms. She contends that akrasia is manifested in different stages of the practical reasoning process. She enumerates four types of akrasia: akrasia of direction or aim, of interpretation, of irrationality, and of character. She separates the practical reasoning process into four steps, showing the breakdown that may occur between each step and how each constitutes an akratic state.\n\nAnother explanation is that there are different forms of motivation which can conflict with each other. Throughout the ages, many have identified a conflict between reason and emotion, which might make it possible to believe that one should do A rather than B, but still end up wanting to do B more than A.\n\nPsychologist George Ainslie argues that akrasia results from the empirically verified phenomenon of hyperbolic discounting, which causes us to make different judgements close to a reward than we will when further from it.\n\nRichard Holton (1999), argues that weakness of the will involves revising one's resolutions too easily. Under this view, it is possible to act against one's better judgment (that is, be akratic), but without being weak-willed. Suppose, for example, Sarah \"judges\" that taking revenge upon a murderer is not the best course of action, but makes the resolution to take revenge anyway and sticks to that resolution. According to Holton, Sarah behaves akratically but does not show weakness of will. \n\n"}
{"id": "17464907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17464907", "title": "Allowance (engineering)", "text": "Allowance (engineering)\n\nIn engineering and machining, an allowance is a planned deviation between an exact dimension and a nominal or theoretical dimension, or between an intermediate-stage dimension and an intended final dimension. The unifying abstract concept is that a certain amount of difference \"allows for\" some known factor of compensation or interference. For example, an area of excess metal may be left because it is needed to complete subsequent machining. Common cases are listed below. An \"allowance,\" which is a \"planned\" deviation from an ideal, is contrasted with a \"tolerance,\" which accounts for expected but unplanned deviations.\n\nAllowance is basically the size difference between components that work together. Allowance between parts that are assembled is very important. For example, the axle of a car has to be supported in a bearing otherwise it will fall to the ground. If there was no gap between the axle and the bearing then there would be a lot of friction and it would be difficult to get the car to move. If there was too much of a gap then the axle would be jumping around in the bearing. It is important to get the allowance between the axle and the bearing correct so that the axle rotates smoothly and easily without juddering. \n\n\nOften the terms \"allowance\" and \"tolerance\" are used inaccurately and are improperly interchanged in engineering contexts. This is logical because both words generally can relate to the abstract concept of permission — that is, of a limit on what is acceptable. However, in engineering, separate meanings are enforced, as explained below.\n\nA tolerance is the limit of acceptable \"unintended\" deviation from a nominal or theoretical dimension. Therefore, a pair of tolerances, upper and lower, defines a range within which an actual dimension may fall while still being acceptable.\n\nIn contrast, an allowance is a \"planned\" deviation from the nominal or theoretical dimension.\n\nAn example of the concept of tolerance is a shaft for a machine is intended to be precisely 10 mm in diameter: 10 mm is the \"nominal\" dimension. The engineer designing the machine knows that in reality, the grinding operation that produces the final diameter may introduce a certain small-but-unavoidable amount of random error. Therefore, the engineer specifies a tolerance of ±0.01 mm (\"plus-or-minus\" 0.01 mm).\n\nAs long as the grinding machine operator can produce a shaft with actual diameter somewhere between 9.99 mm and 10.01 mm, the shaft is acceptable. Understanding how much error is predictable in a process and how much is easily avoidable; how much is unavoidable (or whose avoidance is possible but simply too expensive to justify); and how much is truly acceptable involves considerable judgment, intelligence, and experience.\n\nAn example of the concept of allowance can be shown in relation to the hole that this shaft must enter. It is evident that the above shaft cannot be certain to freely enter a hole that is also 10 mm with the same tolerance. It might, if the actual shaft diameter is 9.99 mm and the actual hole diameter is 10.01 mm, but it would not if conversely the actual shaft diameter is 10.01 mm and the actual hole diameter is 9.99 mm.\n\nTo be sure that there will be enough clearance between the shaft and its hole, \"taking account of the tolerance,\" an \"allowance\" is \"intentionally\" introduced in the dimensions specified. The hole diameter might be specified as 10.03 mm with a manufacturing tolerance of ±0.01 mm (\"plus-or-minus\" 0.01 mm). This means that the smallest acceptable hole diameter will be 10.02 mm while the largest acceptable shaft diameter will be 10.04 mm, leaving an \"allowance\" of 0.01 mm. The minimum clearance between the hole and the shaft will then be 0.01 mm. This will occur when both the shaft and the hole are at maximum material condition.\n"}
{"id": "40332418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40332418", "title": "An Anthology of Chance Operations", "text": "An Anthology of Chance Operations\n\nAn Anthology of Chance Operations (An Anthology) was an artist's book publication from the early 1960s of experimental neodada art and music composition that used John Cage inspired indeterminacy. It was edited by La Monte Young and DIY co-published in 1963 by Young and Jackson Mac Low in New York City. Its full title is: An Anthology of chance operations concept art anti-art indeterminacy improvisation meaningless work natural disasters plans of action stories diagrams Music poetry essays dance constructions mathematics compositions\". \n\nThe project became the manifestation of the original impetus for establishing Fluxus. \n\nIn autumn 1960 the editor of the magazine \"Beatitude\" magazine approached Young and Mac Low after a reading and asked them if they would guest-edit an issue of the East Coast edition of his magazine, \"Beatitude East\". Given free rein to include whoever and whatever he wanted, Young collected a large body of new and experimental music, anti art, poetry, essays and performance scores from America, Europe and Japan. The magazine, however, folded after only one issue, and the materials that Young had collected were never published until An Anthology of Chance Operations.\n\nIn June 1961 George Maciunas, who had already begun plans to publish a magazine in the autumn of the same year, designed the book's layout and title pages, while others, including Mac Low, produced the typescript for the works themselves.\n\nAlthough it can be argued that An Anthology is not strictly a Fluxus publication, its development and production was a central event in the formation of Fluxus. It was the first collaborative publication project between people who were to become part of Fluxus: Young (editor and co-publisher), Mac Low (co-publisher) and Maciunas (designer).\n\nThe art dealer Heiner Friedrich issued a second edition in 1970.\n\n\n\"An Anthology of Chance Operations\" PDF\n"}
{"id": "30991666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30991666", "title": "Armed violence reduction", "text": "Armed violence reduction\n\nThe concept of armed violence reduction (AVR) has gained significant in importance after the 2006 Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development. According to OECD, more than 740,000 people die each year as a result of the violence associated with armed conflicts and large- and small-scale criminality. Furthermore, armed violence impedes humanitarian and socio-economic development and, hence, it is an obstruction to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG).\n\n\nArmed violence reduction is therefore essential for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16196899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16196899", "title": "Behavior analysis of child development", "text": "Behavior analysis of child development\n\nThe behavioral analysis of child development originates from John B. Watson's behaviorism. Watson studied child development, looking specifically at development through conditioning (see Little Albert experiment). He helped bring a natural science perspective to child psychology by introducing objective research methods based on observable and measurable behavior. B.F. Skinner then further extended this model to cover operant conditioning and verbal behavior. Skinner was then able to focus these research methods on feelings and how those emotions can be shaped by a subject’s interaction with the environment. Sidney Bijou (1955) was the first to use this methodological approach extensively with children.\n\nIn 1948, Sidney Bijou took a position as associate professor of psychology at the University of Washington and served as director of the university’s Institute of Child Development. Under his leadership, the Institute added a child development clinic, nursery school classrooms, and a research lab.\nBijou began working with Donald Baer in the Department of Human Development and Family Life at the University of Kansas, applying behavior analytic principles to child development in an area referred to as \"Behavioral Development\" or \"Behavior Analysis of Child Development\". Skinner's behavioral approach and Kantor's interbehavioral approach were adopted in Bijou and Baer's model. They created a three-stage model of development (e.g., basic, foundational, and societal). Bijou and Baer looked at these socially determined stages, as opposed to organizing behavior into change points or cusps (behavioral cusp). In the behavioral model, development is considered a behavioral change. It is dependent on the kind of stimulus and the person’s behavioral and learning function. Behavior analysis in child development takes a mechanistic, contextual, and pragmatic approach.\n\nFrom its inception, the behavioral model has focused on prediction and control of the developmental process. The model focuses on the analysis of a behavior and then synthesizes the action to support the original behavior. The model was changed after Richard J. Herrnstein studied the matching law of choice behavior developed by studying of reinforcement in the natural environment. More recently, the model has focused more on behavior over time and the way that behavioral responses become repetitive. it has become concerned with how behavior is selected over time and forms into stable patterns of responding. A detailed history of this model was written by Pelaez. In 1995, Henry D. Schlinger, Jr. provided the first behavior analytic text since Bijou and Baer comprehensively showed how behavior analysis—a natural science approach to human behavior—could be used to understand existing research in child development. In addition, the quantitative behavioral developmental model by Commons and Miller is the first behavioral theory and research to address notion similar to stage.\n\nThe methods used to analyze behavior in child development are based on several types of measurements. Single-subject research with a longitudinal study follow-up is a commonly-used approach. Current research is focused on integrating single-subject designs through meta-analysis to determine the effect sizes of behavioral factors in development. Lag sequential analysis has become popular for tracking the stream of behavior during observations. Group designs are increasingly being used. Model construction research involves latent growth modeling to determine developmental trajectories and structural equation modeling. Rasch analysis is now widely used to show sequentiality within a developmental trajectory.\n\nA recent methodological change in the behavioral analytic theory is the use of observational methods combined with lag sequential analysis can determine reinforcement in the natural setting.\n\nThe model of hierarchical complexity is a quantitative analytic theory of development. This model offers an explanation for why certain tasks are acquired earlier than others through developmental sequences and gives an explanation of the biological, cultural, organizational, and individual principles of performance. It quantifies the order of hierarchical complexity of a task based on explicit and mathematical measurements of behavior.\n\nThe behavioral model of attachment recognizes the role of uncertainty in an infant and the child’s limited communication abilities. Contingent relationships are instrumental in the behavior analytic theory, because much emphasis is put on those actions that produce parents’ responses.\n\nThe importance of contingency appears to be highlighted in other developmental theories, but the behavioral model recognizes that contingency must be determined by two factors: the efficiency of the action and that efficiency compared to other tasks that the infant might perform at that point. Both infants and adults function in their environments by understanding these contingent relationships. Research has shown that contingent relationships lead to emotionally satisfying relationships. \nSince 1961, behavioral research has shown that there is relationship between the parents’ responses to separation from the infant and outcomes of a “stranger situation.”. In a study done in 2000, six infants participated in a classic reversal design (see single-subject research) study that assessed infant approach rate to a stranger. If attention was based on stranger avoidance, the infant avoided the stranger. If attention was placed on infant approach, the infant approached the stranger.\n\nRecent meta-analytic studies of this model of attachment based on contingency found a moderate effect of contingency on attachment, which increased to a large effect size when the quality of reinforcement was considered. Other research on contingency highlights its effect on the development of both pro-social and anti-social behavior. These effects can also be furthered by training parents to become more sensitive to children’s behaviors, Meta-analytic research supports the notion that attachment is operant-based learning.\n\nAn infant's sensitivity to contingencies can be affected by biological factors and environment changes. Studies show that being placed in erratic environments with few contingencies may cause a child to have conduct problems and may lead to depression. (see Behavioral Development and Depression below). Research continues to look at the effects of learning-based attachment on moral development. Some studies have shown that erratic use of contingencies by parents early in life can produce devastating long-term effects for the child.\n\nSince Watson developed the theory of behaviorism, behavior analysts have held that motor development represents a conditioning process. This holds that crawling, climbing, and walking displayed by infants represents conditioning of biologically innate reflexes. In this case, the reflex of stepping is the respondent behavior and these reflexes are environmentally conditioned through experience and practice. This position was criticized by maturation theorists. They believed that the stepping reflex for infants actually disappeared over time and was not \"continuous\". By working with a slightly different theoretical model, while still using operant conditioning, Esther Thelen was able to show that children's stepping reflex disappears as a function of increased physical weight. However, when infants were placed in water, that same stepping reflex returned. This offered a model for the continuity of the stepping reflex and the progressive stimulation model for behavior analysts.\n\nInfants deprived of physical stimulation or the opportunity to respond were found to have delayed motor development. Under conditions of extra stimulation, the motor behavior of these children rapidly improved. Some research has shown that the use of a treadmill can be beneficial to children with motor delays including Down syndrome and cerebral palsy. Research on opportunity to respond and the building of motor development continues today.\n\nThe behavioral development model of motor activity has produced a number of techniques, including operant-based biofeedback to facilitate development with success. Some of the stimulation methods such as operant-based biofeedback have been applied as treatment to children with cerebral palsy and even spinal injury successfully. Brucker's group demonstrated that specific operant conditioning-based biofeedback procedures can be effective in establishing more efficient use of remaining and surviving central nervous system cells after injury or after birth complications (like cerebral palsy). While such methods are not a cure and gains tend to be in the moderate range, they do show ability to enhance functioning.\n\nBehaviorists have studied verbal behavior since the 1920s. E.A. Esper (1920) studied associative models of language, which has evolved into the current language interventions of matrix training and recombinative generalization. Skinner (1957) created a comprehensive taxonomy of language for speakers. Baer, along with Zettle and Haynes (1989), provided a developmental analysis of rule-governed behavior for the listener. and for the listener Zettle and Hayes (1989) with Don Baer providing a developmental analysis of rule-governed behavior. According to Skinner, language learning depends on environmental variables, which can be mastered by a child through imitation, practice, and selective reinforcement including automatic reinforcement.\n\nB.F. Skinner was one of the first psychologists to take the role of imitation in verbal behavior as a serious mechanism for acquisition. He identified echoic behavior as one of his basic verbal operants, postulating that verbal behavior was learned by an infant from a verbal community. Skinner's account takes verbal behavior beyond an intra-individual process to an inter-individual process. He defined verbal behavior as \"behavior reinforced through the mediation of others\". Noam Chomsky refuted Skinner’s assumptions.\n\nIn the behavioral model, the child is prepared to contact the contingencies to \"join\" the listener and speaker. At the very core, verbal episodes involve the rotation of the roles as speaker and listener. These kinds of exchanges are called conversational units and have been the focus of research at Columbia's communication disorders department.\n\nConversational units is a measure of socialization because they consist of verbal interactions in which the exchange is reinforced by both the speaker and the listener. H.C. \nChu (1998) demonstrated contextual conditions for inducing and expanding conversational units between children with autism and non-handicapped siblings in two separate experiments. The acquisition of conversational units and the expansion of verbal behavior decrease incidences of physical \"aggression\" in the Chu study and several other reviews suggest similar effects. The joining of the listener and speaker progresses from listener speaker rotations with others as a likely precedent for the three major components of speaker-as-own listener—say so correspondence, self-talk conversational units, and naming.\n\nRobert Kohelenberg and Mavis Tsai (1991) created a behavior analytic model accounting for the development of one’s “self”. Their model proposes that verbal processes can be used to form a stable sense of who we are through behavioral processes such as stimulus control. Kohlenberg and Tsai developed functional analytic psychotherapy to treat psychopathological disorders arising from the frequent invalidations of a child’s statements such that “I” does not emerge.\nOther behavior analytic models for personality disorders exist. They trace out the complex biological–environmental interaction for the development of avoidant and borderline personality disorders. They focus on Reinforcement sensitivity theory, which states that some individuals are more or less sensitive to reinforcement than others. Nelson-Grey views problematic response classes as being maintained by reinforcing consequences or through rule governance.\n\nOver the last few decades, studies have supported the idea that contingent use of reinforcement and punishment over extended periods of time lead to the development of both pro-social and anti-social behaviors. However research has shown that reinforcement is more effective than punishment when teaching behavior to a child. It has also been shown that modeling is more effective than “preaching” in developing pro-social behavior in children. Rewards have also been closely studied in relation to the development of social behaviors in children. The building of self-control, empathy, and cooperation has all implicated rewards as a successful tactic, while sharing has been strongly linked with reinforcement.\n\nThe development of social skills in children is largely affected in that classroom setting by both teachers and peers. Reinforcement and punishment play major roles here as well. Peers frequently reinforce each other’s behavior. One of the major areas that teachers and peers influence is sex-typed behavior, while peers also largely influence modes of initiating interaction, and aggression. Peers are more likely to punish cross-gender play while at the same time reinforcing play specific to gender. . Some studies found that teachers were more likely to reinforce dependent behavior in females.\n\nBehavioral principles have also been researched in emerging peer groups, focusing on status. Research shows that it takes different social skills to enter groups than it does to maintain or build one’s status in groups. Research also suggests that neglected children are the least interactive and aversive, yet remain relatively unknown in groups. \nChildren suffering from social problems do see an improvement in social skills after behavior therapy and behavior modification (see applied behavior analysis). Modeling has been successfully used to increase participation by shy and withdrawn children. Shaping of socially desirable behavior through positive reinforcement seems to have some of the most positive effects in children experiencing social problems.\n\nIn the development of anti-social behavior, etiological models for anti-social behavior show considerable correlation with negative reinforcement and response matching (see matching law). Escape conditioning, through the use of coercive behavior, has a powerful effect on the development and use of future anti-social tactics. The use of anti-social tactics during conflicts can be negatively reinforced and eventually seen as functional for the child in moment to moment interactions.\nAnti-social behaviors will also develop in children when imitation is reinforced by social approval. If approval is not given by teachers or parents, it can often be given by peers. An example of this is swearing. Imitating a parent, brother, peer, or a character on TV, a child may engage in the anti-social behavior of swearing. Upon saying it they may be reinforced by those around them which will lead to an increase in the anti-social behavior. \nThe role of stimulus control has also been extensively explored in the development of anti-social behavior.\nRecent behavioral focus in the study of anti-social behavior has been a focus on rule-governed behavior. While correspondence for saying and doing has long been an interest for behavior analysts in normal development and typical socialization, recent conceptualizations have been built around families that actively train children in anti-social rules, as well as children who fail to develop rule control.\n\nBehavioral theory of depression was outlined by Charles Ferster. A later revision was provided by Peter Lewisohn and Hyman Hops. Hops continued the work on the role of negative reinforcement in maintaining depression with Anthony Biglan. Additional factors such as the role of loss of contingent relations through extinction and punishment were taken from early work of Martin Seligman. The most recent summary and conceptual revisions of the behavioral model was provided by Johnathan Kanter. The standard model is that depression has multiple paths to develop. It can be generated by five basic processes, including: lack or loss of positive reinforcement, direct positive or negative reinforcement for depressive behavior, lack of rule-governed behavior or too much rule-governed behavior, and/or too much environmental punishment. For children, some of these variables could set the pattern for lifelong problems. For example, a child whose depressive behavior functions for negative reinforcement by stopping fighting between parents could develop a lifelong pattern of depressive behavior in the case of conflicts. Two paths that are particularly important are (1) lack or loss of reinforcement because of missing necessary skills at a developmental cusp point or (2) the failure to develop adequate rule-governed behavior. For the latter, the child could develop a pattern of always choosing the short-term small immediate reward (i.e., escaping studying for a test) at the expense of the long-term larger reward (passing courses in middle school). The treatment approach that emerged from this research is called behavioral activation.\n\nIn addition, use of positive reinforcement has been shown to improve symptoms of depression in children. Reinforcement has also been shown to improve the self-concept in children with depression comorbid with learning difficulties. Rawson and Tabb (1993) used reinforcement with 99 students (90 males and 9 females) aged from 8 to 12 with behavior disorders in a residential treatment program and showed significant reduction in depression symptoms compared to the control group.\n\nAs children get older, direct control of contingencies is modified by the presence of rule-governed behavior. Rules serve as an establishing operation and set a motivational stage as well as a discrimintative stage for behavior. While the size of the effects on intellectual development are less clear, it appears that stimulation does have a facilitative effect on intellectual ability. However, it is important to be sure not to confuse the enhancing effect with the initial causal effect. Some data exists to show that children with developmental delays take more learning trials to acquire in material.\n\nBehavior analysts have spent considerable time measuring learning in both the classroom and at home. In these settings, the role of a lack of stimulation has often been evidenced in the development of mild and moderate mental retardation. Recent work has focused on a model of \"developmental retardation,\". an area that emphasizes cumulative environmental effects and their role in developmental delays. To measure these developmental delays, subjects are given the opportunity to respond, defined as the instructional antecedent, and success is signified by the appropriate response and/or fluency in responses. Consequently, the learned unit is identified by the opportunity to respond in addition to given reinforcement.\n\nOne study employed this model by comparing students' time of instruction was in affluent schools to time of instruction in lower income schools. Results showed that lower income schools displayed approximately 15 minutes less instruction than more affluent schools due to disruptions in classroom management and behavior management. Altogether, these disruptions culminated into two years worth of lost instructional time by grade 10. The goal of behavior analytic research is to provide methods for reducing the overall number of children who fall into the retardation range of development by behavioral engineering.\n\nHart and Risely (1995, 1999) have completed extensive research on this topic as well. These researchers measured the rates of parent communication with children of the ages of 2–4 years and correlated this information with the IQ scores of the children at age 9. Their analyses revealed that higher parental communication with younger children was positively correlated with higher IQ in older children, even after controlling for race, class, and socio-economic status. Additionally, they concluded a significant change in IQ scores required intervention with at-risk children for approximately 40 hours per week.\n\nThe formation of class-like behavior has also been a significant aspect in the behavioral analysis of development. . This research has provided multiple explanations to the development and formation of class-like behavior, including primary stimulus generalization, an analysis of abstraction, relational frame theory, stimulus class analysis (sometimes referred to as recombinative generalization), stimulus equivalence, and response class analysis. Multiple processes for class-like formation provide behavior analysts with relatively pragmatic explanations for common issues of novelty and generalization.\n\nResponses are organized based upon the particular form needed to fit the current environmental challenges as well as the functional consequences. An example of large response classes lies in contingency adduction, which is an area that needs much further research, especially with a focus on how large classes of concepts shift. For example, as Piaget observed, individuals have a tendency at the pre-operational stage to have limits in their ability to preserve information(Piaget & Szeminska, 1952). While children’s training in the development of conservation skills has been generally successful, complications have been noted. Behavior analysts argue that this is largely due to the number of tool skills that need to be developed and integrated. Contingency adduction offers a process by which such skills can be synthesized and which shows why it deserves further attention, particularly by early childhood interventionists.\n\nFerster (1961) was the first researcher to posit a behavior analytic theory for autism. Ferster's model saw autism as a by-product of social interactions between parent and child. Ferster presented an analysis of how a variety of contingencies of reinforcement between parent and child during early childhood might establish and strengthen a repertoire of behaviors typically seen in children diagnosed with autism. A similar model was proposed by Drash and Tutor (1993), who developed the contingency-shaped or behavioral incompatibility theory of autism. They identified at least six reinforcement paradigms that may contribute to significant deficiencies in verbal behavior typically characteristic of children diagnosed as austistic. They proposed that each of these paradigms may also create a repertoire of avoidance responses that could contribute to the establishment of a repertoire of behavior that would be incompatible with the acquisition of age-appropriate verbal behavior.\nMore recent models attribute autism to neurological and sensory models that are overly worked and subsequently produce the autistic repertoire. Lovaas and Smith (1989) proposed that children with autism have a mismatch between their nervous systems and the environment, while Bijou and Ghezzi (1999) proposed a behavioral interference theory. However, both the environmental mismatch model and the inference model were recently reviewed, and new evidence shows support for the notion that the development of autistic behaviors are due to escape and avoidance of certain types of sensory stimuli. However, most behavioral models of autism remain largely speculative due to limited research efforts.\n\nOne of the largest impacts of behavior analysis of child development is its role in the field of education. In 1968, Siegfried Englemann used operant conditioning techniques in a combination with rule learning to produce the direct instruction curriculum. In addition, Fred S. Keller used similar techniques to develop programmed instruction. B.F. Skinner developed a programmed instruction curriculum for teaching handwriting. One of Skinner's students, Ogden Lindsley, developed a standardized semilogrithmic chart, the \"Standard Behavior Chart,\" now \"Standard Celeration Chart,\" used to record frequencies of behavior, and to allow direct visual comparisons of both frequencies and changes in those frequencies (termed \"celeration\"). The use of this charting tool for analysis of instructional effects or other environmental variables through the direct measurement of learner performance has become known as precision teaching.\n\nBehavior analysts with a focus on behavioral development form the basis of a movement called positive behavior support (PBS). PBS has focused on building safe schools.\n\nIn education, there are many different kinds of learning that are implemented to improve skills needed for interactions later in life. Examples of this differential learning include social and language skills. According to the NWREL (Northwest Regional Educational Laboratory), too much interaction with technology will hinder a child's social interactions with others due to its potential to become an addiction and subsequently lead to anti-social behavior. In terms of language development, children will start to learn and know about 5–20 different words by 18 months old.\n\nBehavior analytic theories have been criticized for their focus on the explanation of the acquisition of relatively simple behavior (i.e., the behavior of nonhuman species, of infants, and of individuals who are intellectually disabled or autistic) rather than of complex behavior (see Commons & Miller). Michael Commons continued behavior analysis's rejection of mentalism and the substitution of a task analysis of the particular skills to be learned. In his new model, Commons has created a behavior analytic model of more complex behavior in line with more contemporary quantitative behavior analytic models called the model of hierarchical complexity. Commons constructed the model of hierarchical complexity of tasks and their corresponding stages of performance using just three main axioms.\n\nIn the study of development, recent work has been generated regarding the combination of behavior analytic views with dynamical systems theory. The added benefit of this approach is its portrayal of how small patterns of changes in behavior in terms of principles and mechanisms over time can produce substantial changes in development.\n\nCurrent research in behavior analysis attempts to extend the patterns learned in childhood and to determine their impact on adult development.\n\nThe Association for Behavior Analysis International has a special interest group for the behavior analysis of child development.\n\nDoctoral level behavior analysts who are psychologists belong to American Psychological Association's division 25: behavior analysis.\n\nThe World Association for Behavior Analysis has a certification in behavior therapy. The exam draws questions on behavioral theories of child development as well as behavioral theories of child psychopathology.\n\n"}
{"id": "47792266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47792266", "title": "Construction of Concept Map", "text": "Construction of Concept Map\n\nConcept is usually perceived as a regularity in events or objects or in their records. While constructing a concept map, it is essential to keep in mind that the concept be built with reference to a focus question. Hence, initially, the focus question to which we seek to answer is carefully chosen because learners usually tend to deviate from this question relating only to domains and thus, fails to answer the question.\n\nWith the selected domain and the focus question, the next step is to identify the key concepts which apply to this domain.About 15 to 25 concepts is sufficient which is usually ordered in a rank ordered list. Such list should be established from the most general and inclusive concept for the particular chosen problem. This list will assist in at least in the beginning of the construction of the concept map. The list is referred to as Parking Lot since the list is constantly shuffled to build up the required network of the concept. Two or more concepts are connected to each other using linking words or phrases which can only then complete a meaningful sentence.Another important characteristics of a concept map is the cross-links. This cross link acts as the relationship between two different domains used in the concept map.This helps in a clear representation of the knowledge contained in the concept and also gives a clear background with specific examples. \n"}
{"id": "29375152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29375152", "title": "Cropping (punishment)", "text": "Cropping (punishment)\n\nCropping is the removal of a person's ears as an act of physical punishment. It was performed along with the pillorying or immobilisation in the stocks, and sometimes alongside punishments such as branding or fines. The punishment is described in Victor Hugo's \"The Hunchback of Notre-Dame\".\n\nCropping sometimes occurred as a standalone punishment (such as in the case of William Prynne for seditious libel), where criminals' ears would be cut off with a blade. Cropping was also a secondary punishment to having criminals' ears nailed to the pillory (with the intention that their body movements would tear them off). In 1538 Thomas Barrie spent a whole day with his ears nailed to the pillory in Newbury, England, before having them cut off to release him.\n\nCropping is mentioned in ancient Assyrian law and the Babylonian Code of Hammurabi.\n\nCropping was quite rare in England, but more common in Guernsey. Notable cases of cropping in England include Thomas Barrie in 1538, who reputedly died from shock following his cropping, and John Bastwick, William Prynne, and Henry Burton in 1637. In the 16th century, Henry VIII amended the laws on vagrancy to decree that first offences would be punished with three days in the stocks, second offences with cropping, and third offences with hanging.\n\nRecords show that croppings took place in the United States in the late 18th century, particularly in states such as Pennsylvania and Tennessee.\nFrom page 153 of Reverend Samuel Peters’, General History of Connecticut, during the colonial period we have this account:\n\n“Newhaven is celebrated for giving the name of “Pumpkin Heads” to all of New Englanders. It originated from the “Blue Laws” which enjoined every male to have his hair cut round by a cap. When caps are not to be had, they substituted a hard shell of a pumpkin, which being put on the head every Saturday, the hair is cut by the shell all round the head…….. and fourthly, such persons as have lost their ears for heresy, and other wickedness, cannot conceal their misfortune and disgrace.”\n\nIn Rhode Island, cropping was a punishment for crimes such as counterfeiting money, perjury, and \"burning houses, barns, and outbuildings\" (but not amounting to arson). Cropping (along with the pillory and stocks) was abolished in Tennessee in 1829, with abolition further afield starting from approximately 1839.\n\n"}
{"id": "1309150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1309150", "title": "Death by boiling", "text": "Death by boiling\n\nDeath by boiling is a method of execution in which a person is killed by being immersed in a boiling liquid. While not as common as other methods of execution, boiling to death has been used in many parts of Europe and Asia.\nExecutions of this type were often carried out using a large vessel such as a cauldron or a sealed kettle that was filled with a liquid such as water, oil, tar, or tallow, and a hook and pulley system.\n\nIn England, the 9th statute passed in 1531 (the 22nd year of the reign of King Henry VIII) made boiling alive the prescriptive form of capital punishment for murder committed by poisoning, which by the same Act was defined as High Treason. This arose from an incident in which the Bishop of Rochester's cook, Richard Roose, gave several people poisoned porridge, resulting in two deaths in February 1531. A partial confession having been extracted by torture, the sentence was thus imposed by attainder and without benefit of clergy. A contemporary chronicle reports the following:\n\nBoiling to death was employed again in 1542 for a woman, Margaret Davy, who had also used poison. During the reign of Edward VI, in 1547, the 1531 act was repealed.\n\nScotland has several traditions of persons boiled to death. For example, in 1222, with the consent of Jon Haraldsson, the \"Bloody Earl\" of Orkney, the bishop of Caithness Adam of Melrose and a monk named Surlo, are said to have been boiled to death by angry husbandmen over the bishop's aggressive means of collecting tithes. Alexander II is said to have executed upwards to eighty persons as a punishment for the crime, and the earl fled his lands. According to the Melrose Chronicle, Adam of Melrose was \"burned alive\", rather than boiled, and Alexander III executed up to 400. William de Soules, a nobleman involved in a conspiracy against Robert the Bruce, was reputed to be a sorcerer consorting with evil spirits, and was boiled alive in 1321 at Ninestane Rig. Around 1420, Melville, the sheriff of the Mearns and laird of Glenbervie, who was resented for his strictness, was apprehended by some other nobles and thrown into the kettle. The nobles are said each to have taken a spoonful of the brew afterwards.\n\nBoiling as an execution method was also used for counterfeiters, swindlers and coin forgers during the Middle Ages.\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, for example, being boiled to death in oil is recorded for coin forgers and extremely grave murderers. In 1392, a man was boiled alive in Nuremberg for having raped and murdered his own mother. Coin forgers were boiled to death in 1452 in Danzig and in 1471 in Stralsund. Even as late as in 1687, a man was boiled to death in oil in Bremen for having been of valuable help to some coin forgers who had escaped justice.\n\nIn the Dutch town of Deventer, the kettle that was used for boiling criminals to death can still be seen.\n\nIn 16th-century Japan, the semi-legendary Japanese bandit Ishikawa Goemon was boiled alive in a large iron kettle-shaped bathtub. His public execution, which might have included his entire family, was done after he failed to kill warlord Toyotomi Hideyoshi.\n\nIn 1675, a Sikh martyr, called Bhai Dayala, was boiled to death in Delhi after he refused to accept Islam. He was put into a cauldron full of cold water which was then heated to boiling point. Sikh scriptures record that Dayala recited the Japji of Guru Nanak and the Sukhmani of Guru Arjan as he died.\n\nThe government of Uzbekistan under Islam Karimov has been alleged to have boiled suspected terrorists.\n\nIn a 2004 document from US Department of State, the following is written:Former ISIS commander Abu Abboud al-Raqqawi referred to ISIS' brutal execution methods, among others, boiling prisoners alive in engine oil:\n\nEarly reports of cannibals from islands in the Pacific, such as Fiji or Papua New Guinea, killing western Christian missionaries were assumed to involve some form of boiling alive. This became a fertile ground for film makers and especially cartoonists, whose clichéd depiction of tourists or missionaries sitting restrained in a large cauldron above a wood fire and surrounded by bone-nosed tribesmen was a staple of popular magazines and film for decades. Examples include the dream sequence in the movie \"Bagdad Café\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1842056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842056", "title": "Digital matte artist", "text": "Digital matte artist\n\nA digital matte artist, or digital matte painter (DMP), is today's modern form of a traditional matte painter in the entertainment industry. He or she digitally paints photo-realistic interior and exterior environments that could not have been otherwise created or visited.\n\nThe term 'digital' is used to distinguish a DMP from a traditional matte painter, although this is unnecessary, as the nature of a matte painter's work remains the same, regardless of the tools and techniques used. Craig Barron, the co-founder of Matte World Digital, offered an insight regarding the transition of the art from traditional to digital in the following words:It is difficult to categorize what a matte painting shot is today... Most filmmakers still call what we do matte shots, and we like that because we see our work as an extension of the original craft. But it's more accurate to say we are involved in environment creation. \n\nTraditional matte painting is older than the movie camera itself and has actually been already practiced in the early years of photography to create painted elements in photographs. With the advantages of the digital age, matte painters have slowly transitioned to a digital work environment, using pressure-sensitive pens and graphic tablets in conjunction with a painting software such as Adobe Photoshop. A digital matte painter is part of a visual effects team being involved in post-production, as opposed to a traditional matte painter, who was a member of a special effects crew, often creating matte paintings on set to be used as backdrops. \n\nOne particular drawback to the work of the digital matte artist is an occasional tendency of their output to look too realistic, which traditional artists avoided by using impressionistic elements or by suggesting details. What this means is that digital matte art is often characterized by an artificially perfect look. One of the modern approaches adopted to address this is the integration of details from a photograph, say, of real places to depict realistic scenes. It is this reason why some digital matte artists refer to their work as a combination of digital painting, photo manipulation, and 3D, for the purpose of creating virtual sets that are hard or impossible to find in the real world.\n\nThe involvement of the digital matte artist in film production vary. However, there are artists such as Mathieu Raynault who stated that they are often brought into the production at a very early stage, providing sketches and concepts to get a dialogue started with the director or art director. Raynault was involved on films like \"300, \", and two \"Lord of the Rings\" films, among others.\n\nThrough the growing need for 'moving' mattes camera projection mapping has been implemented into the matte painting pipeline. Although ILM CG Supervisor Stefen Fangmeier came up with the idea of projecting Yusei Uesugi's aerial painting of Neverland onto a 3D mesh modeled by Geoff Campbell while working on the motion picture \"Hook\" in 1991, projection-mapping based 3D environment matte art was until recently, like its predecessor matte painting has been, the industry's best-kept secret. The involvement of 3D in this until then 2D art form was revealed by Craig Barron in 1998 after completing their work on the feature film \"Great Expectations\" when they introduced this technique as a 2.5D matte to the public. In production today this combination of 2D and 3D is part of every matte artist's bread and butter.\n\nBecause of their high artistic skills, digital matte artists are often also involved with the creation of concept artwork.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47803744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47803744", "title": "Edith-Russ-Haus", "text": "Edith-Russ-Haus\n\nThe Edith-Russ-Haus für Medienkunst (\"Edith Russ House\") is an art gallery in the city of Oldenburg, Lower Saxony, Germany, dedicated to new media art.\n\nThe gallery was founded due to an endowment from Edith Russ, a secondary school teacher in Oldenburg. It does not have a permanent collection but presents temporary exhibitions and associated events. The building is close to the Peter-Friedrich-Ludwig-Hospital, a cultural centre and former hospital, located to the southwest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3698902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3698902", "title": "Ethical formalism", "text": "Ethical formalism\n\nEthical formalism is a type of ethical theory which defines moral judgments in terms of their logical form (e.g., as \"laws\" or \"universal prescriptions\") rather than their content (e.g., as judgments about what actions will best promote human well-being). The term also often carries critical connotations. Kant, for example, has been criticized for defining morality in terms of the formal feature of being a \"universal law\", and then attempting to derive from this formal feature various concrete moral duties.\n\nEthical formalism is related to, but not identical to, Harry J. Gensler's relatively recent (circa 1996) theory of formal ethics. Formal ethics is similar to ethical formalism in that it focuses on formal features of moral judgments, but is distinct in that the system of formal ethics is explicitly (and intentionally) incomplete. Specifically, while some ethical formalist systems (e.g., arguably Kant's \"universal laws\") view a set of formal features as both necessary and sufficient, formal ethics views such formal features as necessary but not sufficient.\n\nEthical formalism is \"considered as an absolutist system, if something is wrong, it is wrong all the time\" (Pollock, 2004). Just the same, if something is right, it is then right all the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "34985593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34985593", "title": "Fractal catalytic model", "text": "Fractal catalytic model\n\nThe fractal catalytic model (also referred to as the fractal catalytic theory or soliton-catalytic model) - proposed by Christopher James Davia and adopted in the research of Carnegie Mellon University (Lee and Marge Gregg) Professor of Psychology Patricia Carpenter - is a “theory of cognition grounded in metabolism” which identifies enzymatic catalysis (taking place in cells) as a “prototypical process” applying at all levels of scale in biological organisms.\n\nThe theory asserts that energy and structure (also information) become synonymous in complex biological structures via a self-organizing, multiple-scale catalytic process (thus: bioenergetics = bioinformatics) – the proposed mechanism involving the catalytic action of soliton propagation in (biological) excitable media. The theory resolves problems (particularly problems associated with brain function) arising from an assumed distinction between function and metabolism. The theory attempts to show that no such distinction exists; thus: FUNCTION = METABOLISM = CATALYSIS.\n\nDeveloped initially within the field of embodied cognition it has been referenced in such areas as semiotics, artificial intelligence and theories of life’s origins.\n\n"}
{"id": "27024155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27024155", "title": "Greed", "text": "Greed\n\nGreed, or avarice, is an inordinate or insatiable longing for material gain, be it food, money, status, or power.\n\nAs a secular psychological concept, greed is an inordinate desire to acquire or possess more than one needs. The degree of inordinance is related to the inability to control the reformulation of \"wants\" once desired \"needs\" are eliminated. Erich Fromm described greed as \"a bottomless pit which exhausts the person in an endless effort to satisfy the need without ever reaching satisfaction.\" It is typically used to criticize those who seek excessive material wealth, although it may apply to the need to feel more excessively moral, social, or otherwise better than someone else.\n\nThe purpose for greed, and any actions associated with it, is possibly to deprive others of potential means (perhaps, of basic survival and comfort) or future opportunities accordingly, or to obstruct them therefrom, thus insidious and tyrannical or otherwise having a negative connotation. Alternately, the purpose could be defense or counteraction from such dangerous, potential negotiation in matters of questionable agreeability. A consequence of greedy activity may be an inability to sustain any of the costs or burdens associated with that which has been or is being accumulated, leading to a backfire or destruction, whether of self or more generally. So, the level of \"inordinance\" of greed pertains to the amount of vanity, malice or burden associated with it.\n\nThomas Aquinas says that greed \"is a sin against God, just as all mortal sins, in as much as man condemns things eternal for the sake of temporal things.\" In Dante's \"Purgatory\", the avaricious penitents were bound and laid face down on the ground for having concentrated too much on earthly thoughts.\nMeher Baba dictated that \"Greed is a state of restlessness of the heart, and it consists mainly of craving for power and possessions. Possessions and power are sought for the fulfillment of desires. Man is only partially satisfied in his attempt to have the fulfillment of his desires, and this partial satisfaction fans and increases the flame of craving instead of extinguishing it. Thus greed always finds an endless field of conquest and leaves the man endlessly dissatisfied. The chief expressions of greed are related to the emotional part of man.\"\n\nIvan Boesky famously defended greed in an 18 May 1986 commencement address at the UC Berkeley's School of Business Administration, in which he said, \"Greed is all right, by the way. I want you to know that. I think greed is healthy. You can be greedy and still feel good about yourself\". This speech inspired the 1987 film \"Wall Street\", which features the famous line spoken by Gordon Gekko: \"Greed, for lack of a better word, is good. Greed is right, greed works. Greed clarifies, cuts through, and captures the essence of the evolutionary spirit. Greed, in all of its forms; greed for life, for money, for love, knowledge has marked the upward surge of mankind.\"\n\nScavenging and hoarding of materials or objects, theft and robbery, especially by means of violence, trickery, or manipulation of authority are all actions that may be inspired by greed. Such misdeeds can include simony, where one profits from soliciting goods within the actual confines of a church.\nA well-known example of greed is the pirate Hendrick Lucifer, who fought for hours to acquire Cuban gold, becoming mortally wounded in the process. He died of his wounds hours after having transferred the booty to his ship.\n\nSome research suggests there is a genetic basis for greed. It is possible people who have a shorter version of the ruthlessness gene (AVPR1a) may behave more selfishly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2699400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2699400", "title": "Hikmah", "text": "Hikmah\n\nHikmah (also Hikmat, , \"\", literally wisdom, philosophy; rationale, underlying reason,) is a concept in Islamic philosophy and law.\n\nMulla Sadra defined \"hikmah\" as \"coming to know the essence of beings as they really are\" or as \"a man's becoming an intellectual world corresponding to the objective world\". Various Islamic commentaries describe hikmah as \"to know the best of things by way of the best of sciences ...\", having experience, using \"justice in judging\", \"knowledge of the reality of things\", \"that which prevents ignorance,\" putting \"things in their proper places, assigning them to their proper status\", etc. According to Ibn al-Qayyim, the highest and most exclusive of the three levels of hikmah are \"reserved for the Companions over the rest of the Ummah, and it is the highest level that the [Islamic] scholars can reach.\"\n\nAs a term of \"fiqh\" (Islamic jurisprudence), Taqi Usmani describes it as meaning \"the wisdom and the philosophy taken into account by the legislator while framing the [Islamic] law or the benefit intended to be drawn by [the law's] enforcement\". One Dr Dipertua calls it \"the objectives and wisdom\" as \"prescribed by Shariah\".\n\nUsmani gives as an example the secular law for traffic lights, where \"illat\" (another term of \"fiqh\" meaning \"the basic feature of a transaction that causes relevant law to be applied\") is obedience to stopping at red lights, and \"hikmah\" is traffic safety -- avoiding vehicle and pedestrian collisions. \n\n"}
{"id": "18372173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18372173", "title": "Information diagram", "text": "Information diagram\n\nAn information diagram is a type of Venn diagram used in information theory to illustrate relationships among Shannon's basic measures of information: entropy, joint entropy, conditional entropy and mutual information. Information diagrams are a useful pedagogical tool for teaching and learning about these basic measures of information, but using such diagrams carries some non-trivial implications. For example, Shannon's entropy in the context of an information diagram must be taken as a signed measure. (See the article \"Information theory and measure theory\" for more information.)\n"}
{"id": "43591208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43591208", "title": "Instrumental convergence", "text": "Instrumental convergence\n\nInstrumental convergence is the hypothetical tendency for most sufficiently intelligent agents to pursue certain instrumental goals such as self-preservation and resource acquisition.\n\nInstrumental convergence suggests that an intelligent agent with apparently harmless goals can act in surprisingly harmful ways. For example, a computer with the sole goal of solving the Riemann hypothesis could attempt to turn the entire Earth into computronium in an effort to increase its computing power so that it can succeed in its calculations.\n\nProposed basic AI drives include utility function or goal-content integrity, self-protection, freedom from interference, self-improvement, and non-satiable acquisition of additional resources.\n\nFinal goals, or final values, are intrinsically valuable to an intelligent agent, whether an artificial intelligence or a human being, as an end in itself. In contrast, instrumental goals, or instrumental values, are only valuable to an agent as a means toward accomplishing its final goals. The contents and tradeoffs of a completely rational agent's \"final goal\" system can be formalized into a utility function.\n\nOne hypothetical example of instrumental convergence is provided by the Riemann Hypothesis catastrophe. Marvin Minsky, the co-founder of MIT's AI laboratory, has suggested that an artificial intelligence designed to solve the Riemann hypothesis might decide to take over all of Earth's resources to build supercomputers to help achieve its goal. If the computer had instead been programmed to produce as many paper clips as possible, it would still decide to take all of Earth's resources to meet its final goal. Even though these two final goals are different, both of them produce a \"convergent\" instrumental goal of taking over Earth's resources.\n\nThe paperclip maximizer is a thought experiment described by Swedish philosopher Nick Bostrom in 2003. It illustrates the existential risk that an artificial general intelligence may pose to human beings when programmed to pursue even seemingly-harmless goals, and the necessity of incorporating machine ethics into artificial intelligence design. The scenario describes an advanced artificial intelligence tasked with manufacturing paperclips. If such a machine were not programmed to value human life, then given enough power its optimized goal would be to turn all matter in the universe, including human beings, into either paperclips or machines which manufacture paperclips.\n\nBostrom has emphasised that he does not believe the paperclip maximiser scenario \"per se\" will actually occur; rather, his intention is to illustrate the dangers of creating superintelligent machines without knowing how to safely program them to eliminate existential risk to human beings. The paperclip maximizer example illustrates the broad problem of managing powerful systems that lack human values.\n\nSteve Omohundro has itemized several convergent instrumental goals, including self-preservation or self-protection, utility function or goal-content integrity, self-improvement, and resource acquisition. He refers to these as the \"basic AI drives\". A \"drive\" here denotes a \"tendency which will be present unless specifically counteracted\"; this is different from the psychological term \"drive\", denoting an excitatory state produced by a homeostatic disturbance. A tendency for a person to fill out income tax forms every year is a \"drive\" in Omohundro's sense, but not in the psychological sense. Daniel Dewey of the Machine Intelligence Research Institute argues that even an initially introverted self-rewarding AGI may continue to acquire free energy, space, time, and freedom from interference to ensure that it will not be stopped from self-rewarding.\n\nIn humans, maintenance of final goals can be explained with a thought experiment. Suppose a man named \"Gandhi\" has a pill that, if he took it, would cause him to want to kill people. This Gandhi is currently a pacifist: one of his explicit final goals is to never kill anyone. Gandhi is likely to refuse to take the pill, because Gandhi knows that if in the future he wants to kill people, he is likely to actually kill people, and thus the goal of \"not killing people\" would not be satisfied.\n\nHowever, in other cases, people seem happy to let their final values drift. Humans are complicated, and their goals can be inconsistent or unknown, even to themselves.\n\nIn 2009, Jürgen Schmidhuber concluded, in a setting where agents search for proofs about possible self-modifications, \"that any rewrites of the utility function can happen only if the Gödel machine first can prove that the rewrite is useful according to the present utility function.\" An analysis by Bill Hibbard of a different scenario is similarly consistent with maintenance of goal content integrity. Hibbard also argues that in a utility maximizing framework the only goal is maximizing expected utility, so that instrumental goals should be called unintended instrumental actions.\n\nMany instrumental goals, such as [...] resource acquisition, are valuable to an agent because they increase its \"freedom of action\".\n\nFor almost any open-ended, non-trivial reward function (or set of goals), possessing more resources (such as equipment, raw materials, or energy) can enable the AI to find a more \"optimal\" solution. Resources can benefit some AIs directly, through being able to create more of whatever stuff its reward function values: \"The AI neither hates you, nor loves you, but you are made out of atoms that it can use for something else.\" In addition, almost all AIs can benefit from having more resources to spend on other instrumental goals, such as self-preservation.\n\n\"If the agent's final goals are fairly unbounded and the agent is in a position to become the first superintelligence and thereby obtain a decisive strategic advantage, [...] according to its preferences. At least in this special case, a rational intelligent agent would place a very *high instrumental value on cognitive enhancement*\" \n\nMany instrumental goals, such as [...] technological advancement, are valuable to an agent because they increase its \"freedom of action\".\n\nMany instrumental goals, such as [...] self-preservation, are valuable to an agent because they increase its \"freedom of action\".\n\nThe instrumental convergence thesis, as outlined by philosopher Nick Bostrom, states:\n\nSeveral instrumental values can be identified which are convergent in the sense that their attainment would increase the chances of the agent's goal being realized for a wide range of final goals and a wide range of situations, implying that these instrumental values are likely to be pursued by a broad spectrum of situated intelligent agents.\n\nThe instrumental convergence thesis applies only to instrumental goals; intelligent agents may have a wide variety of possible final goals.\n\nAgents can acquire resources by trade or by conquest. A rational agent will, by definition, choose whatever option will maximize its implicit utility function; therefore a rational agent will trade for a subset of another agent's resources only if outright seizing the resources is too risky or costly (compared with the gains from taking all the resources), or if some other element in its utility function bars it from the seizure. In the case of a powerful, self-interested, rational superintelligence interacting with a lesser intelligence, peaceful trade (rather than unilateral seizure) seems unnecessary and suboptimal, and therefore unlikely.\n\nSome observers, such as Skype's Jaan Tallinn and physicist Max Tegmark, believe that \"basic AI drives\", and other unintended consequences of superintelligent AI programmed by well-meaning programmers, could pose a significant threat to human survival, especially if an \"intelligence explosion\" abruptly occurs due to recursive self-improvement. Since nobody knows how to predict beforehand when superintelligence will arrive, such observers call for research into friendly artificial intelligence as a possible way to mitigate existential risk from artificial general intelligence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6920233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6920233", "title": "Interspecific competition", "text": "Interspecific competition\n\nInterspecific competition, in ecology, is a form of competition in which individuals of \"different\" species compete for the same resources in an ecosystem (e.g. food or living space). This can be contrasted with interspecific cooperation, a type of symbiosis. Competition between members of the same species is called intraspecific competition.\n\nIf a tree species in a dense forest grows taller than surrounding tree species, it is able to absorb more of the incoming sunlight. However, less sunlight is then available for the trees that are shaded by the taller tree, thus interspecific competition. Leopards and lions can also be in interspecific competition, since both species feed on the same prey, and can be negatively impacted by the presence of the other because they will have less food.\n\nCompetition is only one of many interacting biotic and abiotic factors that affect community structure. Moreover, competition is not always a straightforward, direct, interaction. Interspecific competition may occur when individuals of two separate species share a limiting resource in the same area. If the resource cannot support both populations, then lowered fecundity, growth, or survival may result in at least one species. Interspecific competition has the potential to alter populations, communities and the evolution of interacting species. On an individual organism level, competition can occur as interference or exploitative competition.\n\nDirect competition has been observed between individuals, populations and species, but there is little evidence that competition has been the driving force in the evolution of large groups. For example, between amphibians, reptiles and mammals.\n\nAll of the types described here can also apply to intraspecific competition, that is, competition among individuals within a species. Also, any specific example of interspecific competition can be described in terms of both a mechanism (e.g., resource or interference) and an outcome (symmetric or asymmetric).\n\nExploitative competition, also referred to as resource competition, is a form of competition in which one species consumes and either reduces or more efficiently uses a shared limiting resource and therefore depletes the availability of the resource for the other species. Thus, it is an indirect interaction because the competing species interact via a shared resource.\n\nInterference competition is a form of competition in which individuals of one species interacts directly with individuals of another species via antagonistic displays or more aggressive behavior.\n\nIn a review and synthesis of experimental evidence regarding interspecific competition, Schoener described six specific types of mechanisms by which competition occurs, including consumptive, preemptive, overgrowth, chemical, territorial, and encounter. Consumption competition is always resource competition, but the others are cannot always be regarded as exclusively exploitative or interference.\n\nSeparating the effect of resource use from that of interference is not easy. A good example of exploitative competition is found in aphid species competing over the sap in plant phloem. Each aphid species that feeds on host plant sap uses some of the resource, leaving less for competing species. In one study, \"Fordinae geoica\" was observed to out-compete \"F. formicaria\" to the extent that the latter species exhibited a reduction in survival by 84%. Another example is the one of competition for calling space in amphibians, where the calling activity of a species prevents the other one from calling in an area as wide as it would in allopatry. A last example is driving of bisexual rock lizards of genus \"Darevskia\" from their natural habitats by a daughter unisexual form; interference competition can be ruled out in this case, because parthenogenetic forms of the lizards never demonstrate aggressive behavior.\n\nThis type of competition can also be observed in forests where large trees dominate the canopy and thus allow little light to reach smaller competitors living below. These interactions have important implications for the population dynamics and distribution of both species.\n\nScramble and contest competition refer to the relative success of competitors. Scramble competition is said to occur when each competitor is equal suppressed, either through reduction in survival or birth rates. Contest competition is said to occur when one or a few competitors are unaffected by competition, but all others suffer greatly, either through reduction in survival or birth rates. Sometimes these types of competition are referred to as symmetric (scramble) vs. asymmetric (contest) competition. Scramble and contest competition are two ends of a spectrum, of completely equal or completely unequal effects.\n\nApparent competition is actually an example of predation that alters the relative abundances of prey on the same trophic level. It occurs when two or more species in a habitat affect shared natural enemies in a higher trophic level. If two species share a common predator, for example, apparent competition can exist between the two prey items in which the presence of each prey species increases the abundance of the shared enemy, and thereby suppresses one or both prey species. This mechanism gets its name from experiments in which one prey species is removed and the second prey species increases in abundance. Investigators sometimes mistakenly attribute the increase in abundance in the second species as evidence for resource competition between prey species. It is \"apparently\" competition, but is in fact due to a shared predator, parasitoid, parasite, or pathogen.\n\nMany studies, including those cited previously, have shown major impacts on both individuals and populations from interspecific competition. Documentation of these impacts has been found in species from every major branch of organism. The effects of interspecific competition can also reach communities and can even influence the evolution of species as they adapt to avoid competition. This evolution may result in the exclusion of a species in the habitat, niche separation, and local extinction. The changes of these species over time can also change communities as other species must adapt.\n\nThe competitive exclusion principle, also called \"Gause's law\" which arose from mathematical analysis and simple competition models states that two species that use the same limiting resource in the same way in the same space and time cannot coexist and must diverge from each other over time in order for the two species to coexist. One species will often exhibit an advantage in resource use. This superior competitor will out-compete the other with more efficient use of the limiting resource. As a result, the inferior competitor will suffer a decline in population over time. It will be excluded from the area and replaced by the superior competitor.\n\nA well-documented example of competitive exclusion was observed to occur between Dolly Varden charr (Trout)(\"Salvelinus malma\") and white spotted char (Trout)(\"S. leucomaenis\") in Japan. Both of these species were morphologically similar but the former species was found primarily at higher elevations than the latter. Although there was a zone of overlap, each species excluded the other from its dominant region by becoming better adapted to its habitat over time. In some such cases, each species gets displaced into an exclusive segment of the original habitat. Because each species suffers from competition, natural selection favors the avoidance of competition in such a way.\n\nNiche differentiation is a process by which competitive exclusion leads to differences in resource use. In the previous example, niche differentiation resulted in spatial displacement. In other cases it may result in other changes that also avoid competition. If competition avoidance is achievable, each species will occupy an edge of the niche and will become more specialized to that area thus minimizing competition. This phenomenon often results in the separation of species over time as they become more specialized to their edge of the niche, called niche differentiation. The species do not have to be in separate habitats however to avoid niche overlap. Some species adapt regionally to utilizing different resources than they ordinarily would in order to avoid competition.\n\nThere have been several well-documented cases in birds where species that are very similar change their habitat use where they overlap. For example, they may consume different food resources or use different nesting habitat or materials. On the Galapagos Islands, finch species have been observed to change dietary specializations in just a few generations in order to utilize limited resources and minimize competition.\n\nIn some cases, third party species interfere to the detriment or benefit of the competing species. In a laboratory study, coexistence between two competing bacterial species was mediated by phage parasites. This type of interaction actually helped to maintain diversity in bacterial communities and has far reaching implications in medical research as well as ecology. Similar effects have been documented for many communities as a result of the action of a keystone predator that preys on a competitively superior species.\n\nAlthough local extinction of one or more competitors has been less documented than niche separation or competitive exclusion, it does occur. In an experiment involving zooplankton in artificial rock pools, local extinction rates were significantly higher in areas of interspecific competition. In these cases, therefore, the negative effects are not only at the population level but also species richness of communities.\n\nAs mentioned previously, interspecific competition has great impact on community composition and structure. Niche separation of species, local extinction and competitive exclusion are only some of the possible effects. In addition to these, interspecific competition can be the source of a cascade of effects that build on each other. An example of such an effect is the introduction of an invasive species to the United States, purple-loosestrife. This plant when introduced to wetland communities often outcompetes much of the native flora and decreases species richness, food and shelter to many other species at higher trophic levels. In this way, one species can influence the populations of many other species as well as through a myriad of other interactions. Because of the complicated web of interactions that make up every ecosystem and habitat, the results of interspecific competition are complex and site-specific.\n\nThe impacts of interspecific competition on populations have been formalized in a mathematical model called the Competitive Lotka–Volterra equations, which creates a theoretical prediction of interactions. It combines the effects of each species on the other. These effects are calculated separately for the first and second population respectively:\n\nIn these formulae, N is the population size, t is time, K is the carrying capacity, r is the intrinsic rate of increase and α and β are the relative competition coefficients. The results show the effect that the other species has on the species being calculated. The results can be graphed to show a trend and possible prediction for the future of the species. One problem with this model is that certain assumptions must be made for the calculation to work. These include the lack of migration and constancy of the carrying capacities and competition coefficients of both species. The complex nature of ecology determines that these assumptions are rarely true in the field but the model provides a basis for improved understanding of these important concepts.\n\nAn equivalent formulation of these models is:\n\nIn these formulae, formula_5 is the effect that an individual of species 1 has on its own population growth rate. Similarly, formula_6 is the effect that an individual of species 2 has on the population growth rate of species 1. One can also read this as the effect on species 1 of species 2. In comparing this formulation to the one above, we note that formula_7, and formula_8.\n\nCoexistence between competitors occurs when formula_9 and formula_10. We can translate this as coexistence occurs when the effect of each species on itself is greater the effect of the competitor.\n\nThere are other mathematical representations that model species competition, such as using non-polynomial functions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29782195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29782195", "title": "Inventor's paradox", "text": "Inventor's paradox\n\nThe inventor's paradox is a phenomenon that occurs in seeking a solution to a given problem. Instead of solving a specific type of problem, which would seem intuitively easier, it can be easier to solve a more general problem, which covers the specifics of the sought-after solution. The \"inventor's paradox\" has been used to describe phenomena in mathematics, programming, and logic, as well as other areas that involve critical thinking.\n\nIn the book \"How to Solve It\", George Pólya introduces what he defines as the inventor's paradox:\nOr, in other words, to solve what one desires to solve, one may have to solve more than that in order to get a properly working flow of information.\n\nWhen solving a problem, the natural inclination typically is to remove as much excessive variability and produce limitations on the subject at hand as possible. Doing this can create unforeseen and intrinsically awkward parameters. The goal is to find elegant and relatively simple solutions to broader problems, allowing for the ability to focus on the specific portion that was originally of concern.\n\nThere lies the \"inventor's paradox\", that it is often significantly easier to find a general solution than a more specific one, since the general solution may naturally have a simpler algorithm and cleaner design, and typically can take less time to solve in comparison with a particular problem.\n\nThe sum of numbers sequentially from 1-99:\nThis process, although not impossible to do in one's head, can prove to be difficult for most. However, the ability to generalize the problem exists, in this case by reordering the sequence to:\nIn this form, the example can be solved by most without the use of a calculator. If one notices the problem's lowest and highest numbers (1 + 99) sum to 100, and that the next pair of lowest and highest numbers (2 + 98) also sum to 100, they'll also realize that all 49 numbers are matching pairs that each sum to 100, except for the single number in the middle, 50. The inventive mathematician will reformulate the problem in their mind as (49 * 100) + 50. Since 49 * 100 is easy to calculate by adding 2 zeros to the digit places of 49, they think: 4900 + 50. This is easy to add, because 50's maximum ordinal placement of the most significant digit (number 5 in the 2nd position \"10s\" place) is less than the minimum ordinal position of 4900's smallest significant digit (number 9 in the 3rd position \"100s\" place). So the solver simply replaces the last two 0s in 4900 with 50 to add them together, yielding the answer 4950. While the text description of this process seems complicated, each of the steps performed in the mind is simple and fast.\n\nAlthough appearing in several applications, it can be easiest to explain through inspection of a relatively simple mathematical sequence.\n\nand further along in the sequence:\n\nIn allowing the sequence to expand to a point where the sum cannot be found quickly, we can simplify by finding that the sum of consecutive odd numbers follows:\n\nAs an example in applying the same logic, it may be harder to solve a 25-case problem than it would be to solve an n-case problem, and then apply it to the case where n=25.\n\nThis paradox has applications in writing efficient programs. It is intuitive to write programs that are specialized, but in practice it can become easier to develop more generalized procedures. According to Bruce Tate, some of the most successful frameworks are simple generalizations of complex problems, and he says that Visual Basic, the Internet, and Apache web servers plug-ins are primary examples of such practice. In the investigation of the semantics of language, many logicians find themselves facing this paradox. An example of application can be seen in the inherent concern of logicians with the conditions of truth within a sentence, and not, in fact, with the conditions under which a sentence can be truly asserted.\nAdditionally, the paradox has been shown to have applications in industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45159493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45159493", "title": "Jonathan Rapping", "text": "Jonathan Rapping\n\nJonathan A. Rapping is an American criminal defense attorney, founder and president of Gideon's Promise, and professor of law at Atlanta's John Marshall Law School and Harvard Law School. Rapping received the MacArthur \"Genius\" Award in 2014.\n\nRapping regularly writes about issues related to criminal defense and the criminal justice system. He is a contributor for The Nation, Talk Poverty, The National Association For Public Defense, and The Huffington Post. He also maintains a blog called Fulfilling the Promise: Insights to Forging a Path to Meaningful Justice Reform.\n\nRapping grew up in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. At a young age, Rapping went to demonstrations and protests with his mother, Elayne Rapping, a community organizer, activist and professor in Pittsburgh. Rapping's mother was particularly involved in the anti-war and women's movements. The experience of working with his activist mother taught Rapping about social justice, and trying to change things in the world that aren't fair or right. Friends of Rapping's family were even arrested and he admired the lawyers who worked to keep them out of jail. After witnessing social justice activism as a young person, Rapping aspired to be a criminal defense attorney at a young age.\n\nRapping attended Allderdice High School in Squirrel Hill, and graduated in 1984. After high school, Rapping attended the University of Chicago where he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics \"cum laude\". People close to Rapping convinced him that he would incur tremendous debt if he went to law school, so he worked as a research assistant with the Federal Reserve Board in Washington, D.C. for two years, following in the footsteps of his father, Leonard Rapping, a well-known economist. Rapping earned a scholarship to attend the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University where he earned a Master of Public Administration in 1992. Rapping's sister, Alison Rapping has spent her career in the non-profit sector, and is widely considered a leader in that realm. Both siblings attribute their commitment to social justice to the influence of their parents.\n\nRight after graduating from Princeton and still unfulfilled, Rapping decided to attend George Washington University School of Law in Washington, D.C. After his first year of law school at GWU, Rapping interned with the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia, where he found his calling. He worked at PDS throughout law school.\n\nWhile living in Washington, Rapping met and married his wife, Ilham Askia, who was teaching at an elementary school and then spent two years at a charter high school for court involved children. Askia was born in Buffalo, New York and every man in her family has been a victim of the criminal justice system. Askia's father went to Attica Correctional Facility when she was five years old. She helped raise her younger brother who ended up in prison. Askia became a teacher to break the school-to-prison pipeline, but soon questioned how much of a difference she could make on the front end. This led to her joining Rapping to start Gideon's Promise and, ultimately, to become the organization's Executive Director, where she advocates for attacking the pipeline on the back end.\n\nAfter law school, Rapping worked as a staff attorney for The Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia (1995–2004), where he served his final three years as training director. From 2004-2006, Rapping was the training director for the Georgia Public Defender Standards Council.\n\nFrom 2006-2007, he served as training chief for the New Orleans Office of the Public Defender. In recognition of his work in New Orleans to rebuild the public defender system post-Hurricane Katrina, he was a co-recipient of the Lincoln Leadership Award, given by Kentucky's Department of Public Advocacy to honor leadership in national efforts to improve indigent defense.\n\nIn 2007, Rapping created the Southern Public Defender Training Center, subsequently renamed Gideon's Promise, along with his wife, Ilham Askia. Named after the landmark 1963 Supreme Court case Gideon v. Wainwright, Gideon's Promise teaches public defenders to work more effectively within the judicial system by providing coaching, training, and professional development as well as a supportive network of peers and mentors from around the country. Rapping received a grant to help start the center from George Soros' Open Society Foundations.\n\nSince its founding, the organization has grown from a single training program for sixteen attorneys in two offices in Georgia and Louisiana, to a multi-tiered enterprise with over 300 participants in more than 35 offices across 15 mostly Southern states. An initial three-year \"Core\" program for new public defenders has since expanded into a comprehensive model that includes programs for graduates of the initial Core program as they continue their development, public defender leaders, trainers and supervisors, and law students. Further, the organization is unique in that it intervenes at the trial stage, rather than after conviction, where challenges to criminal injustice often take place.\n\nIn 2013, HBO Films produced a documentary called Gideon's Army, based in part on the Gideon's Promise program and highlighting participants in the program.\n\nGideon's Promise has won numerous awards including Emory University's 2014 Martin Luther King, Jr. Community Service Award, the Southern Center for Human Rights' 2013 Gideon's Promise Award, The National Association of Sentencing Advocates and Mitigation Specialists 2013 Sentencing Project Award, and the American College of Trail Lawyers' 2011 Emil Gumpert Award.\n\nIn 2014, Rapping became the Director of Strategic Planning and Organizational Development for the Maryland Office of the Public Defender. In 2014, Rapping earned a MacArthur Foundation \"Genius Fellow.\"\n\nSince 2007, Rapping has also been an associate professor at Atlanta's John Marshall Law School. In 2015 he was promoted to full Professor. Rapping is also a visiting associate professor of law at Harvard Law School. In 2009, Rapping was selected as one of Harvard Law School's Wasserstein Public Interest Fellows in recognition of his contribution to the public interest legal arena. In 2013, Rapping was the Public Interest Scholar in Residence at Touro Law School.\n\nRapping has been a leading voice in discussing how culture shapes our criminal justice system. He has written and talked extensively about the culture of criminal justice, has theorized how criminal justice reform can be accomplished through cultural transformation, and through his work with Gideon's Promise, has applied his ideas to build a movement of public defenders to drive criminal justice reform. He is a thought leader in articulating the critical role public defenders must play in any comprehensive criminal justice reform strategy. His work in this area earned him a 2014 MacArthur \"Genius\" grant.\n\nRapping first applied organizational culture theory to indigent defense reform in his 2007 article, Directing the Winds of Change. In 2009, he laid out a vision for how to put this theory to practice in describing the work of the Southern Public Defender Training Center (the precursor to Gideon's Promise) in You Can't Build on Shaky Ground. He made the case that supporting public defenders in their quest to drive cultural transformation should be a priority of the United States federal government in National Crisis, National Neglect. And in 2012—applying his work to prosecutors in Who's Guarding the Henhouse—he examined how prosecutors too have been shaped by the existing criminal justice culture and, as a result, help perpetuate injustice.\n\nBelieving that well-intentioned professionals are shaped by a criminal justice system that has become unmoored from is foundational values, Rapping's vision involves supporting defenders as they struggle to resist the pressure to adapt to the status quo. This vision is best articulated in his article \"Redefining Success as a Public Defender\" and in a speech he delivered at Touro Law School.\n\nHe has examined how the American story of justice has evolved to a narrative that would be unrecognizable to our founding fathers in \"Reviving the Hero Image of the Public Defender.\" He has analyzed how defenders can combat the pernicious role of race in driving this culture in \"Implicitly Unjust.\" And in \"Retuning Gideon's Trumpet,\" he answers skeptics who believe public defenders are only important to individuals and play no role in driving systemic reform.\n\nRapping frequently addresses criminal justice issues of the day by promoting a narrative in which a movement of public defenders, serving as the voice for the vast majority of people in the criminal justice system, serve as the catalyst for reform. As the nation grappled with a seeming epidemic of police killings of young black men like Michael Brown, Eric Garner, and Tamir Rice, Rapping urged that we not see that issue as disconnected from \"routine injustice\" destroying poor communities of color every day. In \"It's Not Just the Cops\" and \"From Ferguson to Staten Island: In Case Anyone Doubted the Public Needs Defending,\" he argues that public defenders are a necessary component to a comprehensive strategy to realize equal justice that is illusive throughout the criminal justice system. In \"The Other Baltimore Story,\" he makes a similar argument as the nation focused its attention on the killing of Freddy Gray by reminding us of the routine injustice in Baltimore through the story of Ronald Hammond, and the response of public defenders.\n\nIn articles like \"Continuing the March of Civil Rights Warriors in Selma,\" \"One of the Most Important Civil and Human Rights Battles of Our Time,\" and \"Redefining Success as a Public Defender,\" Rapping makes the case that criminal justice is the civil rights struggle of this generation and that public defenders are on the front lines of that battle.\n\nHe routinely tips his hat to the men and women who represent poor people accused of crimes, particularly in essays like \"Reviving the Hero Image of the Public Defender By Changing the Story of Our Clients,\" \"To All the Patriots Out There, and Especially Our Public Defenders,\" and \"Gideon's Orchestra: It's Time For the Encore.\" And in pieces like \"The Special Few\" and \"Who Will Heal the Public Defenders,\" he explains the emotional toll that makes this work so difficult.\n\nRapping's 2015 TEDx Atlanta talk is a powerful articulation of the critical role of culture in shaping our criminal justice system and the importance of a public defender movement to transforming it.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43438032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43438032", "title": "Madhu-vidya", "text": "Madhu-vidya\n\nMadhu-vidya is described in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad II.v.1-19, and in the Chandogya Upanishad III 1-5. \"Madhu-vidya\" or 'Honey-knowledge' is that of the supreme Bliss of the Self; it is an important Vedic teaching. This knowledge is meant to be communicated by the teacher to the disciple, by father to the son – who is worthy and inwardly ready. Indra taught \"Madhu-vidya\" to Rishi Dadhichi with a warning that it should not be communicated to anyone else.\n\nIn the Rig Veda, Soma, the Vedic symbol for deep spiritual truth, is addressed as \"Madhu\", the nector or ambrosia, the drink of Immortality sought by both gods and men. Rishi Vamadeva has described how the saving of the knowledge of \"Madhu\" or \"Soma\" Doctrine came to him through a hawk in a sudden flash in his darkest hour.\n\nIt is believed that Rishi Dadhichi had his \"ashrama\" in Dudheshwara on the banks of Sabarmati River near present-day Ahmedabad. His name appears in the Rig Veda. Dadhichi was a sage of Vedic repute (Rig Veda I.84.13: इन्द्रो दधीचो अस्थ भिर्वृत्राण्यप्रतिष्कुतः| जघान नवतीर्नव ||). He was the son of Rishi Atharvan of the Atharvaveda, and the father of Pippalada of the Prasna Upanishad. His name is seen to occur in the first Mandala of the Rig Veda, and in the Bhagavata Purana. Rishi Kakshivana,the sage of the Rig Veda Sukta 119 which is addressed to the Ashvins, in Mantra 9 tells us :\n\nDadhichi knew the secret of the \"Madhu-vidya\"; he held the doctrine of the mutual interdependence of things, because all things are indissolubly connected in and through the Self. As all the spokes are contained between the axle and felly of a wheel, all things and all selves are connected in and through the Supreme Self. Nothing exists that is not covered by the Supreme Self. Thus, he taught the doctrine of the supreme existence of the one, and the apparent existence of the many. Dadhichi states that the sun is surely the honey of the gods. Of it, heaven is surely the bent bamboo. The intermediate-space is the hive. The rays are the off-springs. Of that sun, those which are the eastern rays, they themselves are its eastern cells. The \"Rk-mantras\" are verily the bees. The Rig Veda is indeed the flower. Those waters are the nectars. They, which are verily these \"Rk-mantras\" – heated up this Rig Veda. From that which was heated up issued the juice in the form of fame, lustre, vigours of organs, strength, and eatable food. It flowed profusely and settled on a side of the sun. That verily is this, which is the red appearance (aspect) of the sun. Thus, he begins narrating the scheme of colours – red, white and black which are the different colours of the sun, and concludes that the Vedas indeed are the nectars.`\n\n\"Madhu-vidya\" occupies a unique place in the Upanishadic scheme of \"upasana \", due to its supremely hidden significance and peculiarly mystic presentation. Chandogya Upanishad takes the Sun as the main symbol and works out the \"vidya\" thereon; Brihadaranyaka Upanishad depicts a long series of cause and effect, showing their mutual interdependence and finally leads to the Atman which is shown to be the supreme source of everything else. Sankara takes \"madhu\" to mean effect, and he also accepts the primary sense of delight. The effects that flow are not mere imaginary things but are actualities that become visualised; every effect takes shape in a particular form or colour which signifies its concretisation and completion but the essence or the honey has no particular form or colour because it happens to be beyond all manifestations; it is recognized by the heaving at the centre of the Sun. Chandogya Upanishad concludes by saying that, to him, who gains this knowledge, there dawns the eternal day. In the case of Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, the search for the essence begins with the earth, the essence of all \"bhutas\" or creatures, the effects of the earth and essence are identical. All physical, moral and psychical principles make up man who in turn produces these principles, beyond man is the composite self of body, mind etc., the producer of all this – this Brahman is the Atman, the very self of the seeker; nothing exists apart from it, everything is of the nature of everything.\n\n\"Madhu-vidya\" establishes the following five truths:-\n\nChandogya Upanishad (III.i.1) begins teaching \"Madhu Vidya\" by stating – The Sun is verily honey to the Devas (\"Vasus\", \"Rudras\", \"Adityas\", \"Maruts\" and \"Sadhyas\"), the Heaven is like the cross-beam, the intermediate region is the beehive; and the rays are the sons. But, this vidya does not teach meditation on \"Devas\" but on Brahman who is also known by the names \"Devas\" are known; it is a Brahma-vidya.\n\nThe bondage that is experienced as individuals is due to the emphasis on individuality rather than the task, and independently on the cause which is organically connected by the same Atman that is present in both; the essence of the \"Madhu-vidya\" is the cosmic contemplation of the reality of \"Prana\" within and \"Vayu\" outside, and the correlation with the Universal Consciousness.\n\nTransformation of \"Jiva\" into Shiva is the goal of \"Tantra sadhana\"; \"Jiva\" is Shiva in the state of bondage due to \"samskaras\" whose increase must be halted for attaining release. When a \"sadhaka\" takes initiation he comes to know the art of stopping further increase of \"samskaras\". This art is known as \"Madhu-vidya\" whose practice burns the seed of \"samskaras\" and paves the path for liberation.\n"}
{"id": "42635329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42635329", "title": "Mauna (silence)", "text": "Mauna (silence)\n\nIn Hindu philosophy, Mauna (Silence), which has a voice of its own, refers to peace of mind, inner quietude, Samadhi and the Absolute Reality. The Hindu texts insist upon proper understanding of silence by experiencing it through control of speech and practice.\n\nMauna (Sanskrit: मौनम्) or Maunitva (मौनित्व) means – silence, taciturnity, silence of the mind – as in मौनमुद्रा (the attitude of silence) and मौनव्रतम् (a vow of silence) or मौनिन् (observing vow of silence). A Sanskrit Dictionary gives many words such as – अनिर्वचनम् (silence, not uttering anything), अभाषणम् (silence, not speaking), अवचन (absence of assertion, silence, taciturnity), अव्याहृतम् (silence), निःशब्दम् (silence, a calm), - as referring to silence. Chambers Twentieth Century Dictionary gives the meaning of the word, Silence, as absence of sound; abstention from sounding, speech, mention, or communication; a time of such absence or abstention, taciturnity. \n\nKumarila lists sound as one of the eleven substances and as one of the twenty-four qualities, he does not include silence in any one of these two lists nor does he describe silence as he does sound.\n\n\"Asat\", the word meaning non-existent or indescribable, appears seven times in the Rig Veda); it differs from the word, \"Mithya\", which means false or untrue, . \"Asat\" is the opposite of \"Rta\". It is the ground of transcendence, the origin of all organized perception, the original ground any and all sounds count in order to sound, and is also called the language of non-Existence. In the sense of \"non-Existence\" or \"inaction\", \"Asat\" is simply silence; in the sense of \"obscuring\" or \"covering\" or \"chaos, \" it is pure noise downwards moving from which tone is a distillation (Rig Veda VII.104.1,10,11). \"Rta\" is the end of an effective synthesis of sensorium, through a whole range of clear and distinct acts of particular senses and their subsequent insights. \"Asat\" stands as the initial space-ground of indeterminate perception or of sets of organized perceptions, the sounding silence from which the worlds, gods and man emerge. Ramana Maharshi in the 6th paragraph of \"Nān Yār\" reminds us that only after firmly establishing our mind in our heart will our primal thought \"I\" which is the root of all thoughts disappear for the ever-existing real self to shine; the place (innermost core of our being) devoid of even a little trace of our primal thought \"I\" is \"svarupa\" (our own essential self) which alone is called \"mauna\" (silence), it is the state of egolessness. \n\nKena Upanishad tells us - यद्वाचाऽनभ्युदितं येन वागभ्युद्यते – \"That which is not uttered by speech that by which speech is revealed\" (I.5), - यच्छ्रोत्रेण न शृणोति येन श्रोत्रमिदं श्रुतम् - \"That which man does not hear with the ear, that by which man knows the ear\", - तदेव ब्रह्म त्वं विद्धि नेदं यदिदमुपासते - \"know that to be Brahman and not this that people worship as an object\" (I.9). It is only when the knower is utterly negative and yet aware that the known conveys Its secret to him, that the process of knowing as emanating from the knower ceases, and that the interval between knowing and not knowing is not covered by any projection of the knower. The sensitive mind ready to receive the subtlest intimation of Brahman responds to the voice of silence. The mind liberated from even the attribute of \"sattva\" must stand in front of utter silence. Yajnavalkya insists that the spiritual man in order to experience Brahman must transcend both silence (\"mauna\") and non-silence (\"amauna\").\n\nHuman knowledge suffers from the limitation of incompleteness but the Vedantic view of knowledge is rooted in self-revelation or self-luminosity. The truth of knowledge consists in its non-contradictedness and novelty, and not in mere correspondence or coherence. Metaphysical knowledge essentially implies permanent and changeless certitude. Nididhyasana with the aid of \"sravana\" (with a basis of the Mahavakyas) must precede knowledge. Sruti is the starting point of enquiry. Sraddha (Provisional belief), induced by Sabda or Agama (authoritative statements) and supported by Anubhava (experiences or realizations), is required to start an enquiry. Knowledge is truth and truth is the foundation of the Upanishads. Truthfulness in speech leads to truthfulness in spirit because in truth is initiation based. Truth is based on the heart, and reason is the true abode of truth. Satya or truth is a quality of speech and Dharma is the actualization of truth.\nControl of speech is not forced silence. Meditation is the practice of silence. The state of Samadhi is the boundless ocean of silence. Absorptive concentration is Samadhi. Superconscious trance is nirbija (seedless) because it is objectless and devoid of ignorance which is the seed of bondage. The dispositions of super-conscious trances, brought about by supreme detachment due to faith (which is purity of mind), overpower and counteract the dispositions of conscious trances, when these are destroyed along with the mind to merge in Prakrti, the pure self, liberated, abides in its essential nature and shines forth with its light of transcendental consciousness.\n\nThe attribute-less Brahman is explained sometimes by silence. In his commentary on Brahma Sutras III.ii.17, Sankara tells us that Bhadhva, questioned about Brahman by Bashkalin asked him to learn Brahman and became silent; on second and third questioning by Bashkalin he replied – \" I am teaching you indeed, but you do not understand. Silence is that Self.\" The soundless \"Ardhamatra\", that lingers after the three differentiated sounds of Pranava (\"Om\") die away, is Turiya or Pure Consciousness, the attributeless Brahman (Mandukya Upanishad 12). The causal and the resultant conditions, the non-apprehension and misapprehension of Reality, do not exist in Turiya. Silence is Awareness, it is the Atman, the Self (Mundaka Upanishad II.ii.6) . The absolutistic interpretation is that silence is the genuine teaching about the ultimate Reality, because the Absolute is beyond the scope of speech and thought.\n\nSamkhya and Yoga are dualistic systems; they treat Purusa and Prakrti as equally real entities even though absolutely opposed to each other. The concept of Kaivalya signifies that the aim of these systems is to secure an \"aloneness\" by severing all connections. The discriminating knowledge does cause the separation of Purusa from Prakrti but Prakrti remains intact to cause further bondage. Kaivalya is false transcendence achieved by cutting oneself of altogether from all manifestation and through the ushering in of a blissful silence. The true transcendence, too, is a state above all manifestation, but not aloof or away from transcendence. True transcendence is also silence, but not the silence that is opposed to movement or change because its inherent nature is not disturbed. True transcendence is not the silence of death benumbing the creative flow of life but the silence of which both death and immortality are equal shadows – यस्य च्छायामृतं यस्य मृत्युः (Rig Veda X.121.2). The true advaita never needs the excision of a second in order to achieve its non-duality. The Mimamsakas took the view that nothing but exhaustion of all actions can lead to liberation.\n\nYama tells Naciketa (Katha Upanishad I.iii.13) that the discriminating mind should merge the organ of speech into the mind; he who has extracted and tasted the real essence enjoys true happiness in total silence and all alone united with the source and protecting it (Rig Veda I.79.3). Sankara explains this unity by citing Badhva’s response to Bashkalin. The silence referred to by Badhva as the indescribable nature of Brahman is meant to be felt somewhere deep within. It is of far greater magnitude than mere looking into one’s own mind, far more acute than even the sharpest intellect that can ever read into and decipher its codes. This silence compels the framing of questions, and by itself is the answer not merely in the sound of speech that covers it and reaches the ears. The letters of the alphabet and the words they constitute do not emit the sound or sounds they represent; the sounds they depict are of no value if there is no meaning attached. The silence spoken of by Badhva by itself speaks out most eloquently because it has a meaning attached to it; we are that meaning as also the interpretation of its subtleness. Rishi Ayasya (Rig Veda IX.46.2) prays –\n\nHe states that having acquired the knowledge of the Highest the learned people easily unravel the deeply hidden meaning of the most subtle kind. The letters of the alphabet are the limiting adjuncts of the sounds they denote. The space that exists between two lines is the same that exists between sentences, between words and between letters making up those words. But this space denotes no sound; it is devoid of limiting adjuncts or barriers, the same as the Supreme Being who is a mass of Pure Consciousness devoid of limiting adjuncts. Thus, Space which is silent, unchangeable, eternal and infinite is Brahman. Silence is the Avyakta, the only reality whereas sound is the other Avyakta which is Maya or Prakrti that projects itself on account of its three qualities (gunas). Turiya is beyond utterance and is therefore called the Amatra. Sankara tells us that ignorance is the cause of all conditioned experiences, from the darkness of ignorance arises the sense of separateness, and an ignorant person is hardly aware of the continuous perception of Brahman.\n"}
{"id": "555768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555768", "title": "Mean field theory", "text": "Mean field theory\n\nIn physics and probability theory, mean field theory (MFT also known as self-consistent field theory) studies the behavior of large and complex stochastic models by studying a simpler model. Such models consider a large number of small individual components that interact with each other. The effect of all the other individuals on any given individual is approximated by a single averaged effect, thus reducing a many-body problem to a one-body problem.\n\nThe ideas first appeared in physics in the work of Pierre Curie and Pierre Weiss to describe phase transitions.\nApproaches inspired by these ideas have seen applications in epidemic models, queueing theory, computer network performance and game theory, as in the Quantal response equilibrium.\n\nA many-body system with interactions is generally very difficult to solve exactly, except for extremely simple cases (random field theory, 1D Ising model). The n-body system is replaced by a 1-body problem with a chosen good external field. The external field replaces the interaction of all the other particles to an arbitrary particle. The great difficulty (e.g., when computing the partition function of the system) is the treatment of combinatorics generated by the interaction terms in the Hamiltonian when summing over all states. The goal of mean field theory is to resolve these combinatorial problems. MFT is known under a great many names and guises. Similar techniques include Bragg–Williams approximation, models on Bethe lattice, Landau theory, Pierre–Weiss approximation, Flory–Huggins solution theory, and Scheutjens–Fleer theory.\n\nThe main idea of MFT is to replace all interactions to any one body with an average or effective interaction, sometimes called a \"molecular field\". This reduces any multi-body problem into an effective one-body problem. The ease of solving MFT problems means that some insight into the behavior of the system can be obtained at a relatively low cost.\n\nIn field theory, the Hamiltonian may be expanded in terms of the magnitude of fluctuations around the mean of the field. In this context, MFT can be viewed as the \"zeroth-order\" expansion of the Hamiltonian in fluctuations. Physically, this means an MFT system has no fluctuations, but this coincides with the idea that one is replacing all interactions with a \"mean field\". Quite often, in the formalism of fluctuations, MFT provides a convenient launch-point to studying first or second order fluctuations.\n\nIn general, dimensionality plays a strong role in determining whether a mean-field approach will work for any particular problem. In MFT, many interactions are replaced by one effective interaction. Then it naturally follows that if the field or particle exhibits many interactions in the original system, MFT will be more accurate for such a system. This is true in cases of high dimensionality, when the Hamiltonian includes long-range forces, or when the particles are extended (e.g., polymers). The Ginzburg criterion is the formal expression of how fluctuations render MFT a poor approximation, often depending upon the number of spatial dimensions in the system of interest.\n\nWhile MFT arose primarily in the field of statistical mechanics, it has more recently been applied elsewhere, for example in inference, graphical models theory, neuroscience, and artificial intelligence.\n\nThe formal basis for mean field theory is the Bogoliubov inequality. This inequality states that the free energy of a system with Hamiltonian\n\nhas the following upper bound:\n\nwhere formula_3 is the entropy and formula_4 and formula_5 are Helmholtz free energies. The average is taken over the equilibrium ensemble of the reference system with Hamiltonian formula_6. In the special case that the reference Hamiltonian is that of a non-interacting system and can thus be written as\n\nwhere formula_8 is shorthand for the degrees of freedom of the individual components of our statistical system (atoms, spins and so forth), one can consider sharpening the upper bound by minimizing the right hand side of the inequality. The minimizing reference system is then the \"best\" approximation to the true system using non-correlated degrees of freedom, and is known as the mean field approximation.\n\nFor the most common case that the target Hamiltonian contains only pairwise interactions, \"i.e.,\"\n\nwhere formula_10 is the set of pairs that interact, the minimizing procedure can be carried out formally. Define formula_11 as the generalized sum of the observable formula_12 over the degrees of freedom of the single component (sum for discrete variables, integrals for continuous ones). The approximating free energy is given by\n\nwhere formula_14 is the probability to find the reference system in the state specified by the variables formula_15. This probability is given by the normalized Boltzmann factor\n\nwhere formula_17 is the partition function. Thus\n\nIn order to minimize we take the derivative with respect to the single degree-of-freedom probabilities formula_19 using a Lagrange multiplier to ensure proper normalization. The end result is the set of self-consistency equations\n\nwhere the mean field is given by\n\nMean field theory can be applied to a number of physical systems so as to study phenomena such as phase transitions.\n\nConsider the Ising model on a formula_22-dimensional lattice. The Hamiltonian is given by\nwhere the formula_24 indicates summation over the pair of nearest neighbors formula_25, and formula_26\nand formula_27 are neighboring Ising spins.\n\nLet us transform our spin variable by introducing the fluctuation from its mean value formula_28. We may rewrite the Hamiltonian:\n\nwhere we define formula_30; this is the \"fluctuation\" of the spin.\n\nIf we expand the right hand side, we obtain one term that is entirely dependent on the mean values of the spins, and independent of the spin configurations. This is the trivial term, which does not affect the statistical properties of the system. The next term is the one involving the product of the mean value of the spin and the fluctuation value. Finally, the last term involves a product of two fluctuation values.\n\nThe mean-field approximation consists of neglecting this second order fluctuation term. These fluctuations are enhanced at low dimensions, making MFT a better approximation for high dimensions.\n\nAgain, the summand can be reexpanded. In addition, we expect that the mean value of each spin is site-independent, since the Ising chain is translationally invariant. This yields\n\nThe summation over neighboring spins can be rewritten as formula_33 where formula_34 means 'nearest-neighbor of formula_35' and the formula_36 prefactor avoids double-counting, since each bond participates in two spins. Simplifying leads to the final expression\n\nwhere formula_38 is the coordination number. At this point, the Ising Hamiltonian has been \"decoupled\" into a sum of one-body Hamiltonians with an \"effective mean-field\" formula_39 which is the sum of the external field formula_40 and of the \"mean-field\" induced by the neighboring spins. It is worth noting that this mean field directly depends on the number of nearest neighbors and thus on the dimension of the system (for instance, for a hypercubic lattice of dimension formula_41, formula_42).\n\nSubstituting this Hamiltonian into the partition function, and solving the effective 1D problem, we obtain\n\nwhere formula_44 is the number of lattice sites. This is a closed and exact expression for the partition function of the system. We may obtain the free energy of the system, and calculate critical exponents. In particular, we can obtain the magnetization formula_45 as a function of formula_46.\n\nWe thus have two equations between formula_45 and formula_48, allowing us to determine formula_45 as a function of temperature. This leads to the following observation:\n\nformula_50 is given by the following relation: formula_55.\nThis shows that MFT can account for the ferromagnetic phase transition.\n\nSimilarly, MFT can be applied to other types of Hamiltonian as in the following cases:\n\nIn mean-field theory, the mean field appearing in the single-site problem is a scalar or vectorial time-independent quantity. However, this need not always be the case: in a variant of mean-field theory called dynamical mean field theory (DMFT), the mean-field becomes a time-dependent quantity. For instance, DMFT can be applied to the Hubbard model to study the metal-Mott insulator transition.\n\n"}
{"id": "12853411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12853411", "title": "Media Scape", "text": "Media Scape\n\nMedia Scape is a set of meetings with exhibitions, film/video programs and symposia of international artists in the context of media art. Media Scape was founded in May 1991 by Heiko Daxl, Ingeborg Fülepp, Bojan Baletic and Malcolm Le Grice in Zagreb (Croatia).\n\nFrom 1991 to 1999 Media Scape took place annually in the Mimara Museum, in the MultimediaCentar, in the HDLU (Hrvatsko drustvo likovnih umjetnika - Croatian Association of Fine Arts) and in the Museum for Contemporary Art in Zagreb. Within this time frame around 300 artists from more than 30 countries participated.\n\nIn the year 2005 Media Scape moved into the Galerija Rigo/Museum Lapidarium in the city of Novigrad, Istria (Cittánova), led by Jerica Ziherl, in the Croatian region of Istria.\nSince 2006 in co-operation with Noam Braslavsky the Galerie der Künste (GdK) in Berlin, became an additional venue under the title \"Strictly Berlin\".\nIn 2010 Media Scape came back to Zagreb under the title \"The Year We Make Contact\" and will continue in 2013 as the MSBZ \"Media Scape Biennale Zagreb\" for Contemporary Time Based Art.\n\n+\n"}
{"id": "44598343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44598343", "title": "Members of Bund Schweizerischer Frauenvereine", "text": "Members of Bund Schweizerischer Frauenvereine\n\nThe Members of Bund Schweizerischer Frauenvereine (BSF) comprises as of November 2014 more than 150 nationwide member organizations, listed by name and year of participation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292910", "title": "Metafiction", "text": "Metafiction\n\nMetafiction is a form of literature that emphasizes its own constructedness in a way that continually reminds the reader to be aware that they are reading or viewing a fictional work. Metafiction is self-conscious about language, literary form, storytelling, and directly or indirectly draw attention to their status as artifacts. Metafiction is frequently used as a form of parody or a tool to undermine literary conventions and explore the relationship between literature and reality, life, and art. Although metafiction is most commonly associated with postmodern literature, its use can be traced back to much earlier works of fiction, such as Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\" (1387), Miguel de Cervantes' \"Don Quixote\" (1605), William Shakespeare's \"Pericles, Prince of Tyre\" (c.1608), Laurence Sterne's \"The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman\" (1759), William Makepeace Thackeray's \"Vanity Fair\" (1847), as well as more recent works such as J.R.R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" (1954–1955), or Douglas Adams' \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" (1979). Metafiction, however, became particularly prominent in the 1960s, with authors and works such as John Barth's \"Lost in the Funhouse\", Robert Coover's \"The Babysitter\" and \"The Magic Poker\", Kurt Vonnegut's \"Slaughterhouse-Five\", John Fowles' \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\", Thomas Pynchon's \"The Crying of Lot 49\" and William H. Gass's \"Willie Master's Lonesome Wife\".\n\nThe term 'metafiction' was coined in 1970 by William H. Gass in his book \"Fiction and the Figures of Life\". Gass describes the increasing use of metafiction at the time as a result of authors developing a better understanding of the medium. This new understanding of the medium led to a major change in the approach toward fiction. Theoretical issues became more prominent aspects, resulting in an increased self-reflexivity and formal uncertainty. Robert Scholes expands upon Gass' theory and identifies four forms of criticism on fiction, which he refers to as formal, behavioural, structural, and philosophical criticism. Metafiction assimilates these perspectives into the fictional process, putting emphasis on one or more of these aspects.\n\nThese developments were part of a larger movement (arguably a 'metareferential turn') which, approximately from the 1960s onwards, was the consequence of an increasing social and cultural self-consciousness, stemming from, as Patricia Waugh puts it, \"a more general cultural interest in the problem of how human beings reflect, construct and mediate their experience in the world.\"\n\nDue to this development, an increasing number of novelists rejected the notion of rendering the world through fiction. The new principle became to create through the medium of language a world that does not reflect the real world. Language was considered an \"independent, self-contained system which generates its own 'meanings.'\" and a means of mediating knowledge of the world. Thus, literary fiction, which constructs worlds through language, became a model for the construction of 'reality' rather than a reflection of it. Reality itself became regarded as a construct instead of an objective truth. Through its formal self-exploration, metafiction thus became the device that explores the question of how human beings construct their experience of the world.\n\nRobert Scholes identifies the time around 1970 as the peak of experimental fiction (which metafiction is an instrumental part of) and names a lack of commercial and critical success as reasons for its subsequent decline. The development toward metafictional writing in postmodernism generated mixed responses. Some critics argued that it signified the decadence of the novel and an exhaustion of the artistic capabilities of the medium, with some going as far as to call it the 'death of the novel'. Others see the self-consciousness of fictional writing as a way to gain deeper understanding of the medium and a path that leads to innovation that resulted in the emergence of new forms of literature, such as the historiographic novel by Linda Hutcheon.\n\nAccording to Werner Wolf, metafiction can be differentiated into four pairs of forms that can be combined with each other.\n\nExplicit metafiction is identifiable through its use of clear metafictional elements on the surface of a text. It comments on its own artificiality and is quotable. Explicit metafiction is described as a mode of telling. An example would be a narrator explaining the process of creating the story they are telling. \n\nRather than commenting on the text, implicit metafiction foregrounds the medium or its status as an artefact through various, for example disruptive, techniques such as metalepsis. It relies more than other forms of metafiction on the reader's ability to recognize these devices in order to evoke a metafictional reading. Implicit metafiction is described as a mode of showing.\n\nDirect metafiction establishes a reference within the text one is just reading. In contrast to this, indirect metafiction consists in metareferences external to this text, such as reflections on specific other literary works or genres (as in parodies) and general discussions of aesthetic issues; since there is always a relationship between the text in which indirect metafiction occurs and the referenced external texts or issues, indirect metafiction always also impacts the text one is reading, albeit in an indirect way. \n\nCritical metafiction aims to find the artificiality or fictionality of a text in some critical way, which is frequently done in postmodernist fiction. Non-critical metafiction does not criticize or undermine the artificiality or fictionality of a text and can, for example, be used to \"suggest that the story one is reading is authentic\".\n\nWhile all metafiction somehow deals with the medial quality of fiction or narrative and is thus generally media-centred, in some cases there is an additional focus on the truthfulness or inventedness (fictionality) of a text, which merits mention as a specific form. The suggestion of a story being authentic (a device frequently used in realistic fiction) would be an example of (non-critical) truth-centred metafiction.\n\nIt is with LOVE as with CUCKOLDOM——But now I am talking of beginning a book, and have long had a thing upon my mind to be imparted to the reader, which if not imparted now, can never be imparted to him as long as I live (whereas the COMPARISON may be imparted to him any hour of the day)—I'll just mention it, and begin in good earnest.The thing is this.That of all the several ways of beginning a book which are now in practice throughout the known world, I am confident my own way of doing it is the best—I'm sure it is the most religious—for I begin with writing the first sentence—and trusting to Almighty God for the second.In this scene Tristram Shandy, the eponymous character and narrator of the novel, foregrounds the process of creating literature as he interrupts his previous thought and begins to talk about the beginnings of books. The scene evokes an explicitly metafictional response to the problem (and by addressing a problem of the novel one is just reading but also a general problem the excerpt is thus an example of both direct and indirect metafiction, which may additionally be classified as generally media-centred, non-critical metafiction). Through the lack of context to this sudden change of topic (writing a book is not a plot point, nor does this scene take place at the beginning of the novel, where such a scene might be more willingly accepted by the reader) the metafictional reflection is foregrounded. Additionally, the narrator addresses the reader directly, thereby confronting the reader with the fact that they are reading a constructed text.\n\nHas it ever occurred to you that novelists are using up experience at a dangerous rate? No, I see it hasn't. Well, then, consider that before the novel emerged as the dominant literary form, narrative literature dealt only with the extraordinary or the allegorical – with kings and queens, giants and dragons, sublime virtue and diabolic evil. There was no risk of confusing that sort of thing with life, of course. But as soon as the novel got going, you might pick up a book at any time and read about an ordinary chap called Joe Smith doing just the sort of things you did yourself. Now, I know what you're going to say – you're going to say that the novelist still has to invent a lot. But that's just the point: there've been such a fantastic number of novels written in the past couple of centuries that they've just about exhausted the possibilities of life. So all of us, you see, are really enacting events that have already been written about in some novel or other.This scene from \"The British Museum is Falling Down\" (1965) features several instances of metafiction. First, the speaker, Adam Appleby (the protagonist of the novel) discusses the change the rise of the novel brought upon the literary landscape, specifically with regards to thematic changes that occurred. Second, he talks about the mimetic aspect of realist novels. Third, he alludes to the notion that the capabilities of literature have been exhausted, and thus to the idea of the death of the novel (all of this is explicit, critical indirect metafiction). Fourth, he covertly foregrounds that fact that the characters in the novel are fictional characters, rather than masking this aspect, as would be the case in non-metafictional writing. Therefore, this scene features metafictional elements with reference to the medium (the novel), the form of art (literature), a genre (realism), and arguably also lays bare the fictionality of the characters and thus of the novel itself (which could be classified as critical, direct, fiction-centred metafiction).\n\n\"The Eyre Affair\" (2001) is set in an alternate history in which it is possible to enter the world of a work of literature through the use of a machine. In the novel, literary detective Thursday Next chases a criminal through the world of Charlotte Brontë's \"Jane Eyre\". This paradoxical transgression of narrative boundaries is called metalepsis, an implicitly metafictional device when used in literature. Metalepsis has a high inherent potential to disrupt aesthetic illusion and confronts the reader with the fictionality of the text. However, as metalepsis is used as a plot device that has been introduced as part of the world of \"The Eyre Affair\" it can, in this instance, have the opposite effect and is compatible with immersion. It can thus be seen as an example of metafiction that does not (necessarily) break aesthetic illusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53210461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53210461", "title": "Moral Machine", "text": "Moral Machine\n\nMoral Machine is an online platform, developed by Iyad Rahwan's Scalable Cooperation group at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, that generates moral dilemmas and collects information on the decisions that people make between two destructive outcomes. The presented scenarios are often variations of the trolley problem, and the information collected would be used for further research regarding the decisions that machine intelligence must make in the future. For example, as artificial intelligence plays an increasingly significant role in autonomous driving technology, research projects like Moral Machine help to find solutions for challenging life-and-death decisions that will face self-driving vehicles.\n\nAnalysis of the data collected through Moral Machine showed broad differences in relative preferences among different countries, and correlations between these preferences and various national metrics .\n"}
{"id": "10249758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10249758", "title": "Moscow Conceptualists", "text": "Moscow Conceptualists\n\nThe Moscow Conceptualist, or Russian Conceptualist, movement began with the Sots art of Komar and Melamid in the early 1970s, and continued as a trend in Russian art into the 1980s. It attempted to subvert socialist ideology using the strategies of conceptual art and appropriation art.\n\nThe central figures were Dmitri Prigov, Ilya Kabakov, Irina Nakhova, Viktor Pivovarov, Eric Bulatov, Andrei Monastyrski and Komar and Melamid.\n\nMikhail Epstein, in \"After the Future: The Paradoxes of Postmodernism and Contemporary Russian Culture\" (1995) explains why conceptualism is particularly appropriate to the culture and history of Russia, but also how it differs from Western Conceptualism:\n\n\"In the West, conceptualism substitutes \"one thing for another\"--a real object for its verbal description. But in Russia the object that should be replaced is simply absent.”\n\nEpstein (1995) quotes Ilya Kabakov:\n\n“This contiguity, closeness, touchingness, contact with nothing, emptiness makes up, we feel, the basic peculiarity of 'Russian conceptualism'... It is like something that hangs in the air, a self-reliant thing, like a fantastic construction, connected to nothing, with its roots in nothing... So, then, we can say that our own local thinking, from the very beginning in fact, could have been called 'conceptualism'.”\n\n\nEpstein, Mikhail: \"After the Future: The Paradoxes of Postmodernism and Contemporary Russian Culture\", Amherst: The University of Massachusetts Press, 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "53658842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53658842", "title": "Odd Man Out: Readings of the Work and Reputation of Edgar Degas", "text": "Odd Man Out: Readings of the Work and Reputation of Edgar Degas\n\nOdd Man Out: Readings of the Work and Reputation of Edgar Degas is a 1991 book by Carol Armstrong. It is about the paradoxes surrounding Edgar Degas and his works.\n\n\n\"Odd Man Out\" has been reviewed by \"Art History\", \"The Art Bulletin\", \"The French Review\", and \"The Burlington Magazine\".\n\nIt won the 1993 Charles Rufus Morey Book Award.\n"}
{"id": "5847302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5847302", "title": "Outline of algebraic structures", "text": "Outline of algebraic structures\n\nIn mathematics, there are many types of algebraic structures which are studied. Abstract algebra is primarily the study of specific algebraic structures and their properties. Algebraic structures may be viewed in different ways, however the common starting point of algebra texts is that an algebraic object incorporates one or more sets with one or more binary operations or unary operations satisfying a collection of axioms.\n\nAnother branch of mathematics known as universal algebra studies algebraic structures in general. From the universal algebra viewpoint, most structures can be divided into varieties and quasivarieties depending on the axioms used. Some axiomatic formal systems that are neither varieties nor quasivarieties, called \"nonvarieties\", are sometimes included among the algebraic structures by tradition.\n\nConcrete examples of each structure will be found in the articles listed.\n\nAlgebraic structures are so numerous today that this article will inevitably be incomplete. In addition to this, there are sometimes multiple names for the same structure, and sometimes one name will be defined by disagreeing axioms by different authors. Most structures appearing on this page will be common ones which most authors agree on. Other web lists of algebraic structures, organized more or less alphabetically, include Jipsen and PlanetMath. These lists mention many structures not included below, and may present more information about some structures than is presented here.\n\nAlgebraic structures appear in most branches of mathematics, and one can encounter them in many different ways.\n\nIn full generality, an algebraic structure may use any number of sets and any number of axioms in its definition. The most commonly studied structures, however, usually involve only one or two sets and one or two binary operations. The structures below are organized by how many sets are involved, and how many binary operations are used. Increased indentation is meant to indicate a more exotic structure, and the least indented levels are the most basic.\n\nThe following structures consist of a set with a binary operation. The most common structure is that of a \"group\". Other structures involve weakening or strengthening the axioms for groups, and may additionally use unary operations.\n\n\nThe main types of structures with one set having two binary operations are \"rings\" and \"lattices\". The axioms defining many of the other structures are modifications of the axioms for rings and lattices. One major difference between rings and lattices is that their two operations are related to each other in different ways. In ring-like structures, the two operations are linked by the distributive law; in lattice-like structures, the operations are linked by the absorption law.\n\n\nThe following structures have the common feature of having two sets, \"A\" and \"B\", so that there is a binary operation from \"A\"×\"A\" into \"A\" and another operation from \"A\"×\"B\" into \"A\".\n\n\nMany structures here are actually hybrid structures of the previously mentioned ones.\n\n\nThere are many examples of mathematical structures where algebraic structure exists alongside non-algebraic structure.\n\n\nSome algebraic structures find uses in disciplines outside of abstract algebra. The following is meant to demonstrate some specific applications in other fields.\n\nIn Physics:\n\nIn Mathematical logic:\n\nIn Computer science:\n\nA monograph available free online:\n"}
{"id": "6079269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6079269", "title": "Paul the Venetian", "text": "Paul the Venetian\n\nPaul the Venetian or the Venetian Chohan is one of the \"Masters of the Ancient Wisdom\" in the teachings of Theosophy and is regarded as one of the ascended masters in the Ascended Master Teachings (also collectively called the \"Great White Brotherhood\"). He is regarded as the Master of the Third Ray (see Seven Rays). According to the Church Universal and Triumphant, his final life was his incarnation as the artist Paolo Veronese (1528-1588), after which he is said to have become an \"Ascended Master\".\n\nAccording to Elizabeth Clare Prophet, Paul the Venetian's \"Ascended Master Retreat\" is believed to be in an enormous mansion called the \"Chateau de Liberte\" on the etheric plane above an area of southern France called Provence. This mansion is supposed to be larger than the Versailles Palace and have thousands of rooms decorated with copies of paintings (rendered in etheric matter) from all civilizations and eras of human history. Members of the Church Universal and Triumphant, the largest organization adherent to the Ascended Master Teachings, practice meditation exercises which, they are taught, will allow them to visit this retreat on the etheric plane in their dreams.\n\nThe Theosophical author C.W. Leadbeater mentioned a Venetian Chohan, but did not name him Paul or identify him with Veronese. Some of the lesser known Ancient Wisdom groups maintain that Paul the Venetian was incarnated as Plotinus.\n\nIn the Ascended Master Teachings, Paul the Venetian is believed to have been incarnated as a \"Minister of Culture\" in the government of Atlantis, as one of the architects of the pyramids in Ancient Egypt, and as an artist (mural painter) in the Inca Empire. During the Building of the Pyramidos(Adytum), he like the 71 other Builders took no Call or Name.\n\nAccording to the Ascended Master Teachings, Paul the Venetian ascended on April 19, 1588. \n\nAccording to Elizabeth Clare Prophet (the founder and former head of the Ascended Master Teachings organization the Church Universal and Triumphant), Paul the Venetian’s \"twin flame\" (celestial wife) was incarnated as Ruth Hawkins and is now known as the Lady Master Adoremus. Ruth Hawkins was born in Topeka, Kansas in 1907 and died (“ascended”) in 1995 in Albuquerque, New Mexico. She was an artist who painted many portraits of the ascended masters and was very devoted to Paul the Venetian, addressing many \"violet flame decrees\" toward him. She was a member of the \"I AM\" Activity and later of The Bridge to Freedom. According to Elizabeth Clare Prophet, \"Lady Master Adoremus\" is now known as the \"Goddess of Beauty\".\n\nHowever, according to the Ascended Master Teachings organization the Inner Light-Workers, Paul the Venetian’s \"twin flame\" (celestial wife) is Lady Master Chi Seong Li, who was incarnated as a widely educated Chinese lady of noble birth who, following changes in her family's circumstances, taught basic lessons including mathematics to the young children of a Japanese noble's household. \"Lady Master Chi Seong Li\" is said to govern the realm of logic, mathematics and form.\n\nThe scholar K. Paul Johnson maintains that the \"Masters\" that Madame Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors.\n\nAlso see the article “Talking to the Dead and Other Amusements” by Paul Zweig \"New York Times\" October 5, 1980, which maintains that Madame Blavatsky's revelations were fraudulent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30226192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30226192", "title": "Polar concept argument", "text": "Polar concept argument\n\nA polar concept argument is a type of argument that posits the understanding of one concept, from the mere understanding of its polar opposite. A well-known instance of a polar concept argument is Gilbert Ryle's argument against scepticism (1960). According to Anthony Grayling's characterisation, Ryle's argument can be stated as follows:\n\nAccording to Ryle's polar concept argument, counterfeit and genuine coins come in pairs, and one cannot conceive of counterfeit coins without also capturing the essence of the genuine coins at the same time. When one grasps the essence of one polar concept, one also grasps immediately the essence of its polar opposite. Ryle's original argument (1960) runs as follows:\n\nA polar concept argument bears on some more or less strong version of dialectical monism, a philosophical doctrine that views reality as a unified whole, due to the complementarity of polar concepts.\n\n"}
{"id": "3792982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3792982", "title": "Porphyrian tree", "text": "Porphyrian tree\n\nThe Tree of Porphyry is a classic device for illustrating what is also called a \"scale of being\". It was suggested—if not first, then most famously in the European philosophical tradition—by the 3rd century CE Greek neoplatonist philosopher and logician Porphyry. It is also known as \"scala praedicamentalis\".\n\nPorphyry suggests the Porphyrian tree in his introduction (in Greek, \"Isagoge\") to Aristotle's Categories. Porphyry presented Aristotle's classification of categories in a way that was later adopted into tree-like diagrams of dichotomous divisions, which indicate that a species is defined by a genus and a differentia and that this logical process continues until the lowest species is reached, which can no longer be so defined. No illustrations or diagrams occur in editions of Porphyry's original work. But, diagrams were eventually made, and became associated with the scheme that Porphyry describes, following Aristotle.\n\nPorphyry's \"Isagoge\" was originally written in Greek, but was translated into Latin in the early 6th century CE by Boethius. Boethius's translation became the standard philosophical logic textbook in the Middle Ages. Until the late 19th century, theories of categories based on Porphyry's work were still being taught to students of logic.\n\nThe following very helpful passage by philosopher James Franklin gives some hint as to the history of the Porphyrian tree:\n\nThus, the notion of the Porphyrian tree as an actual diagram comes later than Porphyry himself. Still, scholars do speak of Porphyry's tree as in the \"Isagoge\" and they mean by this only that the idea of dividing genera into species via differentiae is found in the \"Isagoge\". But, of course, Porphyry was only following what was already in Aristotle, and Aristotle was following what was already in his teacher, Plato.\n\nThe following Porphyrian tree consists of three columns of words; the middlemost (in boldface) contains the series of genera and species, and we can take as analogous to the trunk of a tree. The extremes (the terms that jut out to the left and right), containing the differentiae, we can take as analogous to the branches of a tree:\n\nThe diagram shows the highest genus to be substance. (Whether substance is a highest genus, really, is not in question here: right now we are only going to discuss what the diagram shows, not whether what it shows is true or false.) The technical term for a highest substance is \"\"summum genus\"\". So, substance is the \"summum genus\" as far as this diagram goes. The diagram shows that the genus substance to have two differentia, namely, \"thinking\" and \"extended\". This indicates that there are two species of the genus substance, thinking substance and extended substance. The diagram does not give a term for the species of thinking substance (this would be \"mind\"), but it does give the term for the species of extended substance, namely, body. That is, body is a species of the genus substance; body is that species of the genus substance that is extended.\n\nNow that we have seen body as a species of substance, we treat body as a genus itself. As a genus, it has two differentia of its own, inanimate and animate. So, there are two species of body, inanimate body and animate body. The diagram does not tell us what the term for inanimate body is, but it indicates a term for animate body, namely, animal. Animal is an animate species of the genus body.\n\nAnd, again, now that we have looked at animal as a species of the genus body, we look at animal now as a genus and consider its differentia, which are shown on the diagram to be irrational and rational. Thus, according to the diagram there are two species of the genus animal, irrational animal and rational animal. We are not told by the diagram what a term for irrational animal is, but the diagram indicates that a rational animal is a human. Thus, human is a rational species of the genus animal.\n\nBeneath human, however, there are no further species. \"This\" and \"that\" if they are considered differentiae, are of a special kind that map the species human not onto a new species but onto particular humans., The particular human Plato is named in the diagram. Plato is not a species (that is why his name is not in bold, unlike the species above). So, human is the lowest species in this diagram. The technical name for the lowest species in such a scheme is the \"\"infima species\"\". So, for this diagram, human is the \"infima species\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2896261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2896261", "title": "Preventive detention", "text": "Preventive detention\n\nPreventive detention is an imprisonment that is putatively justified for non-punitive purposes.\n\nA related, but different form of detention, is detention of suspects or remand. In contrast to preventive detention, detention of suspects must quickly be followed by a criminal charge (or happen after the charge).\n\nIn most jurisdictions, people suffering from serious mental illness may be subject to involuntary commitment under mental health legislation. This is undertaken on health grounds or in order to protect the person or others. It does not strictly speaking constitute a form of preventive detention, because the person is detained for treatment and released once this has proven effective.\n\nAustralia laws authorize preventive detention in a variety of circumstances. For example, mandatory detention in Australia (a form of immigration detention) is applied to asylum seekers who arrive in Australian territorial waters or territory, until their status as an asylum seeker is established.\n\nIn Australia's most populous State, New South Wales, preventive detention regimes have established powers to detain or to continuously monitor and limit particular activities of those who were once convicted of various serious sexual and violent offences. Recently, this has been extended, with the State government now able to control the free movement, speech, association and work of individuals and businesses via Serious Crime Prevention Orders (‘SCPOs’). Based on provisions in the United Kingdom, a range of state officials may apply to the NSW District or Supreme Courts to create an SCPO consisting of any conditions they consider appropriate. These conditions may include positive obligations - such as an obligation to report to a police station - or negative ‘prohibitions’ or ‘restrictions’, for instance, a prohibition on travelling beyond a certain location. Failure to comply with the SCPO, carries with it a maximum penalty of five years’ imprisonment.\n\nSCPOs have been described as a \"watershed extension of state power in New South Wales\" by legal academics, and were strongly opposed by the legal community when they were introduced and passed into with less than two weeks' consideration by the Parliament of NSW.\n\nIn Canada, anyone declared a dangerous offender by the courts is subject to an indefinite period of detention\n\nIn Costa Rica, the 1998 Criminal Proceedings Code allows for a normal pre-trial \"prisión preventiva\" or remand of 12 months if the person is considered a \"flight risk\", but if the case is declared \"complex\", it can be increased to up to three years and a half of imprisonment without conviction, or even more in some cases. As of 23 May 2013, over 3,000 people were in pre-trial detention.\n\nThe police can detain people for 6 hours without involving the courts or pay compensation for wrongful arrest. In relation to the ongoing gang war in Copenhagen between the biker gangs and second generation youth gangs it has been suggested to extend the 6 hour limit to several weeks. Before the Copenhagen Climate Council a new set of emergency laws was introduced allowing the police to detain people for up to 12 hours without charging them for a crime. Critics fear that they will remain as permanent laws when the summit is over.\nIn Germany, \"preventive detention\" (German: \"Sicherungsverwahrung\", §66 Strafgesetzbuch) has a similar meaning to that in New Zealand. Sicherungsverwahrung can only be imposed as part of a criminal sentence, and it is handed down to individuals who have committed a grave offence and are considered a danger to public safety. It is an indeterminate sentence that follows a regular jail sentence. To assure the suitability of the preventive detention, it has to be reviewed every two years to determine the ongoing threat posed by the individual. Preventive detention is typically served in regular prisons, though separated from regular prisoners and with certain privileges.\n\nThe Sicherungsverwahrung is usually imposed in the original verdict, but can be imposed later under certain circumstances. This practice of subsequent incapacitation orders was ruled a violation of Art 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights by the European Court of Human Rights. Subsequently, a huge discussion in Germany over the handling of this verdict occurred. In reaction to this the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany issued a verdict on Sicherungsverwahrung in May 2011, deeming it unconstitutional. In response, a new law regulating Sicherungsverwahrung was passed in November 2012\n\nIn India, preventive detention can be extended for up to six months. After three months, such a case is brought before an advisory board for review.\n\nPreventive detention in India dates from British rule in the early 1800s, and continued with such laws as the Defence of India Act 1939 and the Preventive Detention Act 1950.\n\nThe controversial \"Maintenance of Internal Security Act\" was enacted by Indian parliament during Indira Gandhi prime ministership in 1971, however it was amended several times during national emergency (1975-1977), leading to human right violations. It was subsequently repealed after Indira Gandhi lost the election in 1977, and the new government took over.\n\nIn Japan, pre-trial detention of a suspect can be for up to 23 days without charge. The length of detention, up to the maximum period, is at the discretion of the public prosecutor and subject to the approval of local courts. It can also be further extended.\n\nIn Malaysia the Internal Security Act 1960 (ISA) was a preventive detention law that was enacted after Malaysia gained independence from Britain in 1957. The ISA allowed for detention without trial or criminal charges under limited, legally defined circumstances. The ISA was invoked against terrorism activity and against anyone deemed a threat to national security. On 15 September 2011, Najib Razak, the Prime Minister of Malaysia, said that this legislation would be repealed and replaced by two new laws.\n\nOn 17 April 2012, the Security Offences (Special Measures) Act 2012 (SOSMA) was approved by the Malaysian Parliament as a replacement for the ISA. It was given the Royal Assent on 18 June 2012 and gazetted on 22 June 2012.\n\nIn New Zealand, \"preventive detention\" is an indeterminate sentence of imprisonment, second only to life imprisonment in terms of seriousness. It may be given to offenders aged 18 or over who are convicted of a qualifying sexual or violent offence, and the court is satisfied that the person is likely to commit another qualifying sexual or violent offence if they were given a determinate sentence of imprisonment. Preventive detention has a minimum non-parole period of five years in prison, but the sentencing judge can extend this if they believe that the prisoner's history warrants it. A total of 314 people were serving terms of preventive detention in 2013, of whom 34 were on parole.\n\nAlfred Thomas Vincent has been in prison on preventive detention since 1968 and was still there as of 2015.\n\nUnder Apartheid, the government of South Africa used preventive detention laws to target its political opponents. These included, notably, the Terrorism Act of 1967, which gave police commanders the power to detain terrorists—or people with information about terrorists—without warrant.\n\nEngland and Wales used to have provisions, introduced by the Labour Government in 2003, to deal with dangerous offenders similar to what is used in Canada. However, the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 abolished what was called Imprisonment for Public Protection (IPP) without replacement, although offences committed prior to the coming into force of the 2012 Act may still trigger IPP.\n\nIn the United States, the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees the right to \"a speedy and public trial\". Thus, arrested persons may not be held for extended periods of time without trial. However, since the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (NDAA), controversy has broken out as to whether or not the U.S. government now has the power to indefinitely detain citizens. Section 1021 and 1022 of the legislation enacted policies described by \"The Guardian\" as allowing indefinite detention \"without trial [of] American terrorism suspects arrested on U.S. soil who could then be shipped to Guantánamo Bay\".\n\nConvicted persons can be held indefinitely as a \"dangerous offender\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18731794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18731794", "title": "Pure thought", "text": "Pure thought\n\nPure thought is an English translation of an expression originally attributed to Kant and Hegel. Their usage of the German counterpart revolved around the question of whether pure thought could exist without an object or some material. Today, more popular uses exist. That \"Pure Thought\" could existent and is part of the evidentiary change. The usage here is that pure thought is simply a process, another term for thought experiment. \n"}
{"id": "47226932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47226932", "title": "Sach Khand", "text": "Sach Khand\n\nSach Khand is a term used in Sikhism to denote an individual's union with God.\n\nGuru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, described a hierarchy of five spiritual levels in the Japji Sahib. The highest level in this hierarchy is known as the Sach Khand where the individual attains a mystical union with God. Before reaching the level of Sach Khand, the individual must ascend progressively through four lower levels—starting from Dharam Khand, and progressing through Gian Khand, Saram Khand, and Karam Khand.\n\nMany Sikhs conceptualize \"Sach Khand\" not as a mystical state transcending death, but as a \"heavenly abode\"—a place where one's spirit goes after death.\n"}
{"id": "31393520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31393520", "title": "Self-complexity", "text": "Self-complexity\n\nSelf-complexity is a person’s perceived knowledge of herself or himself, based upon the number of distinct cognitive structures, or self-aspects, they believe themselves to possess. These self-aspects can include context-dependent social roles, relationships, activities, superordinate traits, and goals of the individual, which combine to form the larger, associative network of their self-concept. According to self-complexity theory, an individual who has a number of self-aspects that are unique in their attributes will have greater self-complexity than one who has only a few self-aspects, or whose self-aspects are closely associated to one another. In other words, self-complexity may invoke the question, “How full is the self-concept”?\n\nThe term self-complexity was first coined by psychologist Patricia Linville (1985, 1987), who also developed a model for the concept. Linville’s model for self-complexity suggests that self-aspects are “activated” in the context of a relevant experience, and it is these experiences that impact how particular self-aspects are viewed. If an individual experiences a favourable event towards which they feel positively, self-aspects that have been activated by the experience will be associated with positive feelings. In contrast, self-aspects will be associated with negative thoughts and feelings when they are activated by unfavourable experiences. In addition, the more similar self-aspects are to one another, the more likely it will be for the thoughts and feelings associated with one self-aspect to “spillover”, influencing the thoughts and feelings linked to other, overlapping self-aspects. Consequently, the self-complexity model suggests that highly self-complex individuals who possess the greatest number of distinct self-aspects will be less vulnerable to swings in affect and self-appraisal in response to life events, relative to individuals who possess limited and/or indistinct self-aspects (i.e., low self-complexity). This is due to the fact that highly self-complex individuals are suspected of being better able to compartmentalize their life events, as well as having a smaller proportion of their self-aspects affected by any salient emotional event, whether positive or negative. In essence, after receiving any form of self-relevant feedback individuals high in self-complexity will have less of their self-concept represented, and as a result will exhibit less extreme affective responses.\n\nA variety of different views are held concerning the nature of self-complexity. From a developmental perspective, self-complexity is viewed as one of the primary features of development, and it is thought to increase with age. Young children are believed to possess relatively few and undifferentiated self-aspects (i.e., low self-complexity), resulting in a simplified self-concept. As children grow in terms of their physical, social, and cognitive selves, they should attain the cognitive capacity necessary to identify a greater number of distinct self-aspects (i.e., increasing self-complexity) and thus reflect a more developed, multi-faceted self-concept. The developmentalist perspective would therefore expect older children to have not only a greater number of self-aspects in comparison to younger children, but also to have less interrelation between their self-aspects. The perspective also stresses the need to examine other indices of development, including identity status, cognitive developmental level, and ego development, as factors that have the potential to provide an enhanced understanding of self-complexity development.\n\nContrary to the developmental viewpoint, clinical and personality perspectives focus predominantly upon the potential protective factors of self-complexity that carry into adulthood. Specifically, the perspective suggests that highly self-complex individuals are at less risk for depression and psychopathologies, such as borderline personality disorder, because they can compensate for their negatively affected self-aspects by focusing on their unaffected self-aspects, thus preserving their global self-worth. In comparisons of clinical and normal adolescent populations, the self-concept domains of psychiatric inpatients are often found to be significantly more interrelated, suggesting low self-complexity. Additionally, clinical and personality perspectives not only consider low self-complexity as a factor in psychopathology, they also infer that individuals with psychopathologies may be delayed in the normal development of self-complexity.\n\nIn accordance with clinical and personality perspectives, variations in self-complexity are suggested to be factors that either contribute to, or protect against damages to individuals’ physical and mental well-being. In particular, individual differences in self-complexity are predictive of emotional stability and reactivity to stress, which can moderate depression, physical illnesses, and self-esteem.\n\nAccording to Linville, individuals who possess high self-complexity may use their unaffected self-aspects as cognitive buffers, protecting against negative affects/self-appraisals and the health consequences associated with these stressors. For example, a woman who considers herself a successful lawyer, mother, wife and friend may experience less negative affects and self-appraisals, following a divorce, compared to a woman whose self-aspects were limited to her being a successful lawyer and wife, because the former retains a number of diverse self-aspects on which she can rely. Furthermore, if another woman’s self-aspect as a wife was closely associated with her self-aspect as a lawyer (if, for example, her husband was also a lawyer) her affectivity could be even more severely impacted due to the spillover process, leading to heightened feelings of inadequacy and stress. In this vein, high self-complexity could be considered a buffer against threats to a particular domain of self-aspects, while low self-complexity could be viewed as a diathesis for stress-related disorders and depression; the majority of an individual’s self-aspects would be negatively affected by stressful life events.\n\nAs an alternative to the conclusions above, other members in the field of psychology consider low self-complexity to benefit individuals’ well-being in select scenarios. Despite the fact that highly self-complex individuals are capable of limiting their affective reactivity to negative events, this same emotional restraint is observed in reaction to positive events. Therefore, in comparison to highly self-complex individuals, individuals who are low in self-complexity, but who generally experience positive life events are likely to experience increased positive affect, enhancing well-being and self-esteem and deterring the effects of depression and physical illness that are typically stress-induced. This effect is especially likely if low self-complexity individuals believe they possess an extensive social support network and desirable personality characteristics.\nMoreover, although high self-complexity allows numerous, differentiated self-aspects to diffuse the damage incurred by one or more self-aspects in undesirable experiences, the possession of multiple, unrelated self-aspects can be viewed as a fragmentation of one’s self-concept. From this stance, highly self-complex individuals may suffer the strain of role conflict, identity uncertainty, and/or identity competition (e.g., determined businesswoman vs. nurturing mother), all of which have been known to enhance depression, neuroticism, and low self-esteem and can ultimately lead to chronic, low-level stress as a result of everyday hassle. In light of these arguments, it is suggested that high self-complexity is beneficial only to the extent that one’s various self-aspects remain distinct, yet integrated with one another.\n\nLinville’s model for self-complexity has been widespread in the research community since the time of its inception in 1985. Given the influence and popularity of her model for explaining personality complexity and its relation to well-being, numerous criticisms and alternative suggestions have been made to improve upon the model’s consistency, reliability, and validity.\n\nIn terms of criticisms, research has found that the buffering effect of high self-complexity, as proposed by Linville, receives mixed support at best. Other criticisms have focused upon Linville’s choice to operationally define self-complexity as a combination of the number and differentiation of self-aspects; many believe that variations in well-being could be better accounted for if the two factors were considered separately, rather than as one entity in self-complexity theory.\n\nRecent alternatives suggest that it is not the complexity of an individual, that is, the number and distinctiveness of their self-aspects, which moderates well-being, but rather the authenticity of one’s self-aspects. This emphasizes the potential prominence of self-determination theory (SDT), which focuses upon the authentication of behaviours, values, and self-presentations as an integral feature to personal well-being. The concept of possible self-complexity has also been addressed to consider how this factor could mediate reactions to feedback regarding future, rather than present goals of an individual.\n\n"}
{"id": "2411822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2411822", "title": "Silver cord", "text": "Silver cord\n\nThe silver cord in metaphysical studies and literature, also known as the sutratma or life thread of the antahkarana, refers to a life-giving linkage from the higher self (atma) down to the physical body. It also refers to an extended synthesis of this thread and a second (the consciousness thread, passing from the soul to the physical body) that connects the physical body to the etheric body, onwards to the astral body and finally to the mental body.\n\nIn other research, it is described as a strong, silver-colored, elastic cord which joins a person's physical body to its astral body (a manifestation of the physical body that is less distinct).\n\nAlfred Ballabene, an astral projector whose works are mostly published and accessed online, observed that during his out-of-body experiences \"glue-like strings\" appear as the astral body tries to separate itself from the physical body. As the astral body moves further away from the tangible body, some of the strings break apart and clump into a specific and smaller region - preferably the head, breast, back, stomach, and the abdomen area - thus forming the silver cord.\n\nSome prophets and soothsayers in ancient times also claimed to have seen the silver cord during their out-of-body experiences\n\nDuring astral projection and out-of-body experiences, some claim they can (at will or otherwise) see a silver cord linking their astral form to their physical body. This cord mainly appears to a beginning projector as an assurance they will not become lost. However, even experienced projectors find it useful, claiming it is a fast way to return to the body.\n\nBallabene, on the other hand, stated that the cord not only serves as a link between the two bodies, but it also limits the astral body from wandering great distances. His experiment showed that as the astral body moves farther away from the physical body and reaches a distance of \"50 to 70 meters,\" the silver cord pulls the astral form right back into the physical body.\n\nOthers asserted though, that the cases of silver cord observations during out-of-body experiences and astral projections are rare; rather, no astral body is observed and the projector sees himself or herself as a \"disembodied awareness or a point of view\" in most cases.\n\nPassing through a tunnel is compared to the birth canal, and the silver cord resembling the umbilical cord - these are a few observations during out-of-body experiences that are sometimes likened to childbirth. \"Birth theories\" hypothesized that people who were delivered by Caesarean section do not have tunnel experiences during astral projections. On the contrary, one study showed that there is no discrepancy between the experiences observed by people who are born through Caesarean section and those born naturally during their OBE or astral projection.\n\nThe attachment point of the cord to the astral body differs, not only between projectors but also from projection to projection. These points correspond to major chakra positions. According to the observations of Robert Bruce, there is not a single point of connection to the denser body, but rather a locally converging collection of strands leading out of all of the major chakras, and some of the minor ones (Astral Dynamics, p398).\n\nThe silver cord is mentioned by mystics, especially in contexts of dying and of near-death experiences. It is said that the cord must remain connected to the astral and the physical bodies during the projection because if it breaks, the projector will die. If a person gets older or if their death is near, the astral body slowly separates itself from the physical body and the silver cord breaks, making a complete and irreversible separation of the two bodies. In this situation, the idea of death and dying is interpreted as a \"permanent astral projection\" that cannot be undone.\n\nThe term is derived from Ecclesiastes 12:6-7 in the Jewish Bible or Christian Old Testament. \n\nAs translated from the original Hebrew in \"The Complete Tanakh\":\n\nAs rendered in the Authorised Version:\n\nOr from the New International Version:\n\nThese verses, Ecclesiastes 12:6-7, are variously translated, and there is a lack of consensus among Bible commentators as to its meaning. Matthew Henry's commentary, for example, states that the silver cord refers simply to the \"spinal marrow.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17035657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17035657", "title": "Single-stream recycling", "text": "Single-stream recycling\n\nSingle-stream (also known as “fully commingled” or \"single-sort\") recycling refers to a system in which all paper fibers, plastics, metals, and other containers are mixed in a collection truck, instead of being sorted by the depositor into separate commodities (newspaper, paperboard, corrugated fiberboard, plastic, glass, etc.) and handled separately throughout the collection process. In single-stream, both the collection and processing systems are designed to handle this fully commingled mixture of recyclables, with materials being separated for reuse at a materials recovery facility (MRF). The single-stream option replaces the dual-stream option, which is where people separate certain recyclable materials and place them in separate containers for collection.\n\nSingle-stream recycling programs were first developed in several California communities in the 1990s. Subsequently, many large and small municipalities across the United States began single-stream programs. As of 2012, there are 248 MRFs operating in the U.S. As of 2013, 100 million Americans were served by single-stream programs.\n\nProponents of single-stream note several advantages:\n\nPotential disadvantages of single-stream recycling may include:\n\nA single-stream system is a complex network of machinery that uses a combination of newer and older technologies to sort materials for recycling, including PET, HDPE, aluminum, tin cans, cardboard and paper.\n\nList of equipment used in a single-stream system:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24944240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24944240", "title": "Situational strength", "text": "Situational strength\n\nSituational strength is defined as cues provided by environmental forces regarding the desirability of potential behaviors. Situational strength is said to result in psychological pressure on the individual to engage in and/or refrain from particular behaviors. A consequence of this psychological pressure to act in a certain way is the likelihood that despite an individual's personality, they will act in a certain manner. As such, when strong situations (situations where situational strength is high) exist, the relationship between personality variables (for example, extraversion, risk-taking behaviors, etc...) and behaviors is reduced, because no matter what the personality of the individual is, they will act in a way dictated by the situation. When weak situations exist, there is less structure and more ambiguity with respect to what behaviors to perform. In sum, situations have the ability to restrict the expression of individual differences in terms of actual behaviors.\n\nAn example of a strong situation is a red traffic light. Traffic rules dictate how people are supposed to act when they see a red light, and this influence often prevents people from engaging in behaviors that are consistent with their personality. For example, most people, no matter whether they are daring or cautious, will stop in front of a red traffic light. Therefore, one could not reasonably predict how a person would behave with personality in this situation.\n\nIn contrast, an example of a weak situation is a yellow traffic light because the most appropriate course of action is not especially well defined and norms are inconsistent. Thus, individuals who are more daring are likely to speed through the intersection on a yellow light, whereas cautious individuals are likely to stop.\n\nAlthough it is difficult to formally express when situations restricting individual differences in personality began in psychology, work conducted by Carl Rogers suggested that certain individual differences are mostly likely to manifest themselves in situations where there is psychological freedom and safety, compared to situations where psychological freedom and safety do not exist. Additionally, Stanley Milgram argued that psychological forces of conflict may not be brought into play under diluted conditions. However, recent conceptualization and study of situational strength can be traced back to the work of Walter Mischel. In 1968, Mischel published his classic book, \"Personality and Assessment\", where he argued that personality cannot be studied in a vacuum; instead, the complexity of human behavior and its determinants must be studied from a perspective that accounts for the simultaneous and interactive impact of individual differences and situational characteristics. It is important to note that Mischel did not imply that people show no consistencies in behavior, or that individual differences are unimportant. The major theme was rather that the trait approach to personality was not as sensitive to the influence of situations as it should have been.\n\nIn books and articles on the topic, Mischel stressed the importance of better understanding how, when, and why individual differences are most likely to be important predictors of behavior, and when they are more likely to be nullified by situational influences. Specifically, Mischel began laying the foundation for subsequent thought in this area by arguing that psychological \"situations\" and \"treatments\" are powerful to the degree that they lead all persons to construe the particular events the same way, induce uniform expectancies regarding the most appropriate response pattern, provide adequate incentives for the performance of that response pattern, and instill the skills necessary for its satisfactory construction and execution (p. 276). He further argued that individual differences are most likely to directly affect behavior \"when the situation is ambiguously structured... so that subjects are uncertain about how to categorize it and have no clear expectations about the behaviors most likely to be appropriate (normative, reinforced) in that situation\" (p. 276). Thus, he helped to lay the foundation for the general idea underlying what is now typically referred to as \"situational strength\" (or \"situation strength\").\n\nMischel's work led to an important shift in social scientists' thinking about the behavioral expression of personality. But, as some have recently argued, situational strength is too often viewed as being true without treating situational strength as a theoretical construct in need of conceptual development and empirical verification.\n\nMeyer, Dalal, and Hermida argue that for theoretical understanding and practical application of situational strength to be advanced, at least three important issues must be addressed:\n\nFour facets of situational strength have been identified:\n\nIn an empirical study, which incorporated vote-counting meta-analysis, it has been found that conceptualizations of situational strength that currently exist in psychological literature form an interaction with non-ability individual differences. Additionally, the effect size of the interaction effect was reasonably large.\n\nPerhaps the most important implication of situational strength is that it is commonly believed to explain cross-situational variability in the criterion-related validity of non-cognitive individual differences. This suggests that psychology should not focus on whether personality constructs predict job performance but rather about the conditions under which they predict job performance. This also shows great practical implications for personnel selection because the criterion-related validity of individual differences may vary across different occupations. For instance, Meyer, Dalal, and Bonaccio found that occupation-level situational strength moderates the conscientiousness–performance relationship, such that conscientiousness better predicts performance in characteristically weak occupations than in characteristically strong occupations.\n\nAnother important implication revolves around the idea of person-environment fit. One of the core ideas expressed in the fit literature is that a mismatch between individuals' needs and environmental supplies can have deleterious effects on performance, attitudes, and health. Within the context of situational strength, some employees may view highly constraining environments as stifling and frustrating, whereas others may find the regimented and predictable nature of constraining environments to be comforting and relaxing. If these differences do in fact exist, this would suggest that employees' psychological reactions are partially a function of their individual differences profile and partially a function of the nature of the situation they are experiencing.\n\nTwo critical aspects of situational strength can be fruitful for future study:\n\n"}
{"id": "146062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146062", "title": "Synchronicity", "text": "Synchronicity\n\nSynchronicity () is a concept, first introduced by analytical psychologist Carl Jung, which holds that events are \"meaningful coincidences\" if they occur with no causal relationship yet seem to be meaningfully related. During his career, Jung furnished several different definitions of it. Jung defined synchronicity as an \"acausal connecting (togetherness) principle,\" \"meaningful coincidence\", and \"acausal parallelism.\" He introduced the concept as early as the 1920s but gave a full statement of it only in 1951 in an Eranos lecture.\n\nIn 1952 Jung published a paper \"Synchronizität als ein Prinzip akausaler Zusammenhänge\" (Synchronicity – An Acausal Connecting Principle) in a volume which also contained a related study by the physicist and Nobel laureate Wolfgang Pauli, who was sometimes critical of Jung's ideas. Jung's belief was that, just as events may be connected by causality, they may also be connected by meaning. Events connected by meaning need not have an explanation in terms of causality, which does not generally contradict the Axiom of Causality.\n\nJung used the concept in arguing for the existence of the paranormal. A believer in the paranormal, Arthur Koestler wrote extensively on synchronicity in his 1972 book \"The Roots of Coincidence\". The idea of synchronicity as extending beyond mere coincidence (as well as the paranormal generally) is widely rejected in the academic and scientific community.\n\nJung coined the word \"synchronicity\" to describe \"temporally coincident occurrences of acausal events.\" In his book \"\", Jung wrote:\nIn the introduction to his book, \"Jung on Synchronicity and the Paranormal\", Roderick Main wrote:\nIn his book \"Synchronicity: An Acausal Connecting Principle\", Jung wrote:\nSynchronicity was a principle which, Jung felt, gave conclusive evidence for his concepts of archetypes and the collective unconscious. It described a governing dynamic which underlies the whole of human experience and history — social, emotional, psychological, and spiritual. The emergence of the synchronistic paradigm was a significant move away from Cartesian dualism towards an underlying philosophy of double-aspect theory. Some argue this shift was essential to bringing theoretical coherence to Jung's earlier work.\n\nEven at Jung's presentation of his work on synchronicity in 1951 at an Eranos lecture, his ideas on synchronicity were evolving. On Feb. 25, 1953, in a letter to Carl Seelig, the Swiss author and journalist who wrote a biography of Albert Einstein, Jung wrote, \"Professor Einstein was my guest on several occasions at dinner. . . These were very early days when Einstein was developing his first theory of relativity [and] It was he who first started me on thinking about a possible relativity of time as well as space, and their psychic conditionality. More than 30 years later the stimulus led to my relation with the physicist professor W. Pauli and to my thesis of psychic synchronicity.\" \n\nFollowing discussions with both Albert Einstein and Wolfgang Pauli, Jung believed there were parallels between synchronicity and aspects of relativity theory and quantum mechanics. \n\nJung believed life was not a series of random events but rather an expression of a deeper order, which he and Pauli referred to as \"Unus mundus\". This deeper order led to the insights that a person was both embedded in a universal wholeness and that the realisation of this was more than just an intellectual exercise, but also had elements of a spiritual awakening. From the religious perspective, synchronicity shares similar characteristics of an \"intervention of grace\". Jung also believed that in a person's life, synchronicity served a role similar to that of dreams, with the purpose of shifting a person's egocentric conscious thinking to greater wholeness.\n\nIn his book \"Synchronicity\" Jung tells the following story as an example of a synchronistic event:\nThe French writer Émile Deschamps claims in his memoirs that, in 1805, he was treated to some plum pudding by a stranger named Monsieur de Fontgibu. Ten years later, the writer encountered plum pudding on the menu of a Paris restaurant and wanted to order some, but the waiter told him that the last dish had already been served to another customer, who turned out to be de Fontgibu. Many years later, in 1832, Deschamps was at a dinner and once again ordered plum pudding. He recalled the earlier incident and told his friends that only de Fontgibu was missing to make the setting complete – and in the same instant, the now-senile de Fontgibu entered the room, having got the wrong address.\n\nJung wrote, after describing some examples, \"When coincidences pile up in this way, one cannot help being impressed by them – for the greater the number of terms in such a series, or the more unusual its character, the more improbable it becomes.\"\n\nIn his book \"Thirty Years That Shook Physics – The Story of Quantum Theory\" (1966), George Gamow writes about Wolfgang Pauli, who was apparently considered a person particularly associated with synchronicity events. Gamow whimsically refers to the \"Pauli effect\", a mysterious phenomenon which is not understood on a purely materialistic basis, and probably never will be. The following anecdote is told:\n\nCausality, when defined expansively (as for instance in the \"mystic psychology\" book \"The Kybalion\", or in the platonic Kant-style Axiom of Causality), states that \"nothing can happen without being caused.\" Such an understanding of causality may be incompatible with synchronicity. Other definitions of causality (for example, the neo-Humean definition) are concerned only with the relation of cause to effect. As such, they are compatible with synchronicity. There are also opinions which hold that, where there is no external observable cause, the cause can be internal.\n\nIt is also pointed out that, since Jung took into consideration only the narrow definition of causality – only the efficient cause – his notion of \"acausality\" is also narrow and so is not applicable to final and formal causes as understood in Aristotelian or Thomist systems. The final causality is inherent in synchronicity (because it leads to individuation) or synchronicity can be a kind of replacement for final causality; however, such finalism or teleology is considered to be outside the domain of modern science.\n\nMany people believe that the Universe or God causes synchronicities. Among the general public, divine intervention is the most widely accepted explanation for meaningful coincidences. \n\nJung and his followers (e.g., Marie-Louise von Franz) share in common the belief that numbers are the archetypes of order, and the major participants in synchronicity creation.This hypothesis has implications that are relevant to some of the “chaotic” phenomena in nonlinear dynamics. Dynamical systems theory has provided a new context from which to speculate about synchronicity because it gives predictions about the transitions between emergent states of order and nonlocality. This view, however, is not part of mainstream mathematical thought.\n\nAccording to a certain view, synchronicity serves as a way of making sense of or describing some aspects of quantum mechanics. It argues that quantum experiments demonstrate that, at least in the microworld of subatomic particles, there is an instantaneous connection between particles no matter how far away they are from one another. Known as quantum non-locality or entanglement, the proponents of this view argue that this points to a unified field that precedes physical reality. As with archetypal reasoning, the proponents argue that two events can correspond to each other (e.g. particle with particle, or person with person) in a meaningful way. \n\nSynchronicity can also be seen in David Bohm's theory of implicate order. According to Bohm's theory, there are three major realms of existence: the explicate (unfolded) order, the implicate (enfolded) order, and a source or ground beyond both. The flowing movement of the whole can thus be understood as a process of continuous enfolding and unfolding of order or structure. From moment to moment there is a rhythmic pulse between implicate and explicate realities. Therefore, synchronicity would literally take place as the bridge between implicate and explicate orders, whose complementary nature define the undivided totality.\n\nMainstream mathematics argues that statistics and probability theory (exemplified in, e.g., Littlewood's law or the law of truly large numbers) suffice to explain any purported synchronistic events as mere coincidences. The law of large numbers, for instance, states that in large enough populations, any strange event is arbitrarily likely to happen by mere chance. However, some proponents of synchronicity question whether it is even sensible in principle to try to evaluate synchronicity statistically. Jung himself and von Franz argued that statistics work precisely by ignoring what is unique about the individual case, whereas synchronicity tries to investigate that uniqueness. \n\nAmong some psychologists, Jung's works, such as \"The Interpretation of Nature and the Psyche\", were received as problematic. Fritz Levi, in his 1952 review in \"Neue Schweizer Rundschau\" (New Swiss Observations), critiqued Jung's theory of synchronicity as vague in determinability of synchronistic events, saying that Jung never specifically explained his rejection of \"magic causality\" to which such an acausal principle as synchronicity would be related. He also questioned the theory's usefulness.\n\nIn psychology and cognitive science, confirmation bias is a tendency to search for or interpret new information in a way that confirms one's preconceptions, and avoids information and interpretations that contradict prior beliefs. It is a type of cognitive bias and represents an error of inductive inference, or is a form of selection bias toward confirmation of the hypothesis under study, or disconfirmation of an alternative hypothesis. Confirmation bias is of interest in the teaching of critical thinking, as the skill is misused if rigorous critical scrutiny is applied only to evidence that challenges a preconceived idea, but not to evidence that supports it.\n\nLikewise, in psychology and sociology, the term apophenia is used for the mistaken detection of a pattern or meaning in random or meaningless data. Skeptics, such as Robert Todd Carroll of the Skeptic's Dictionary, argue that the perception of synchronicity is better explained as apophenia. Primates use pattern detection in their form of intelligence, and this can lead to erroneous identification of non-existent patterns. A famous example of this is the fact that human face recognition is so robust, and based on such a basic archetype (essentially two dots and a line contained in a circle), that human beings are very prone to identify faces in random data all through their environment, like the \"man in the moon\", or faces in wood grain, an example of the visual form of apophenia known as pareidolia.\n\nProfessor Charles Tart sees danger in synchronistic thinking: 'This danger is the temptation to mental laziness. [...] it would be very tempting to say, \"Well, it's synchronistic, it's forever beyond my understanding,\" and so (prematurely) give up trying to find a causal explanation.'\n\nAnyway, synchronicity cannot be attained to by mere intellectual means. It is an autonomous phenomenon that is not invented by the intellect, but rather, experienced. synchronicity is a self produced image spontaneously blossoming from the psyche as a whole that simultaneously reflects and effects what is going on within the very psyche that produced it. It has also been argued that Jungian psychology's theory of synchronicity is equivalent to intellectual intuition.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12395051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12395051", "title": "The World Without Us", "text": "The World Without Us\n\nThe World Without Us is a non-fiction book about what would happen to the natural and built environment if humans suddenly disappeared, written by American journalist Alan Weisman and published by St. Martin's Thomas Dunne Books. It is a book-length expansion of Weisman's own February 2005 \"Discover\" article \"Earth Without People\". Written largely as a thought experiment, it outlines, for example, how cities and houses would deteriorate, how long man-made artifacts would last, and how remaining lifeforms would evolve. Weisman concludes that residential neighborhoods would become forests within 500 years, and that radioactive waste, bronze statues, plastics, and Mount Rushmore would be among the longest-lasting evidence of human presence on Earth.\n\nThe author of four previous books and numerous articles for magazines, Weisman traveled to interview academics, scientists and other authorities. He used quotations from these interviews to explain the effects of the natural environment and to substantiate predictions. The book has been translated and published in many countries. It was successful in the U.S., reaching #6 on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list and #1 on the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" Best-Sellers list in September 2007. It ranked #1 on \"Time\" and \"Entertainment Weekly's\" of 2007.\n\nThe idea of exploring the effects of the depopulating of the Earth is an old one, having been a regular trope in science fiction novels for decades. Post-apocalyptic literature in general had often tried to imagine the fate of civilization and its artifacts after the end of humanity. Indeed, an extremely popular 1949 novel, \"Earth Abides,\" portrayed the breakdown of urban systems and structures after a pandemic, through the eyes of a survivor, who muses at the end of the first chapter: \"What would happen to the world and its creatures without man? That he was left to see.\"\n\n\"The World Without Us\" applies a more ecological view to \"Earth Abides\". Before writing it, the author, Alan Weisman, had written four books, including, \"Gaviotas: A Village to Reinvent the World,\" in 1998, about the eco-village of Gaviotas in Colombia; and \"An Echo In My Blood,\" in 1999, about his family's history immigrating from Ukraine to the United States. He has worked as an international journalist for American magazines and newspapers, and at the time of writing the book was an Associate Professor of Journalism and Latin American Studies at the University of Arizona. The position required him to teach only one class in the spring semester, and he was free to travel and conduct research the rest of the year.\n\nThe idea for \"The World Without Us\" was suggested to Weisman in 2004 by Josie Glausiusz, an editor at \"Discover\". She had pondered the idea for several years and asked Weisman to write a feature on the subject after she re-read \"Journey through a Doomed Land\", an article he published in 1994 in \"Harper's Magazine\" about the state of Chernobyl eight years after abandonment. His \"Discover\" article, \"Earth Without People\", published in the February 2005 issue and re-printed in \"The Best American Science Writing 2006\" anthology, describes how nature has thrived in the abandoned Korean Demilitarized Zone and how nature would overwhelm the built environment of New York City. Using interviews with paleoecologists, the article speculates that megafauna would return and that forest cover, like the Białowieża Forest, would spread over Europe and the eastern United States. The article raises the prospect of failing power plants, chemical plants, dams, and petroleum tanks.\n\nTo expand this into a book, Weisman's agent found an editor and publisher at St. Martin's Press. Among the 23-page bibliography are two articles he wrote for the Los Angeles Times Magazine (\"Naked Planet\" on persistent organic pollutants, and \"The Real Indiana Jones\" on the Mayan civilization) and one published in the \"Condé Nast Traveler\" (\"Diamond in the Wild\" on diamond mining), as well as \"Discover\"'s \"Earth Without People\". Additional research saw Weisman travel to England, Cyprus, Turkey, Panama, and Kenya. Interviews with academics quoted in the book include biologist E. O. Wilson on the Korean Demilitarized Zone, archaeologist William Rathje on plastics in garbage, forest botanist Oliver Rackham on vegetative cover across Britain, anthropologist Arthur Demarest on the crash of Mayan civilization, paleobiologist Douglas Erwin on evolution, and philosopher Nick Bostrom on Transhumanism.\n\nThe book is divided into 27 chapters, with a prelude, coda, bibliography and index. Each chapter deals with a new topic, such as the potential fates of plastics, petroleum infrastructure, nuclear facilities, and artworks. It is written from the point of view of a science journalist with explanations and testimonies backing his predictions. There is no unifying narrative, cohesive single-chapter overview, or thesis.\n\nWeisman's thought experiment pursues two themes: how nature would react to the disappearance of humans and what legacy humans would leave behind. To foresee how other life could continue without humans, Weisman reports from areas where the natural environment exists with little human intervention, like the Białowieża Forest, the Kingman Reef, and the Palmyra Atoll. He interviews biologist E. O. Wilson and visits with members of the Korean Federation for Environmental Movement at the Korean Demilitarized Zone where few humans have penetrated since 1953. He tries to conceive how life may evolve by describing the past evolution of pre-historic plants and animals, but notes Douglas Erwin's warning that \"we can't predict what the world will be 5 million years later by looking at the survivors\". Several chapters are dedicated to megafauna, which Weisman predicts would proliferate. He profiles soil samples from the past 200 years and extrapolates concentrations of heavy metals and foreign substances into a future without industrial inputs. Carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere and implications for climatic change are likewise examined.\n\nWith material from previous articles, Weisman uses the fate of the Mayan civilization to illustrate the possibility of an entrenched society vanishing and how the natural environment quickly conceals evidence. To demonstrate how vegetation could compromise human built infrastructure, Weisman interviewed hydrologists and employees at the Panama Canal, where constant maintenance is required to keep the jungle vegetation and silt away from the dams. To illustrate abandoned cities succumbing to nature, Weisman reports from Chernobyl, Ukraine (abandoned in 1986) and Varosha, Cyprus (abandoned in 1974). Weisman finds that their structures crumble as weather does unrepaired damage and other life forms create new habitats. In Turkey, Weisman contrasts the construction practices of the rapidly growing Istanbul, as typical for large cities in less developed countries, with the underground cities in Cappadocia. Due to a large demand for housing in Istanbul much of it was developed quickly with whatever material was available and could collapse in a major earthquake or other natural disaster. Cappadocian underground cities were built thousands of years ago out of volcanic tuff, and are likely to survive for centuries to come.\n\nWeisman uses New York City as a model to outline how an unmaintained urban area would deconstruct. He explains that sewers would clog, underground streams would flood subway corridors, and soils under roads would erode and cave in. From interviews with members of the Wildlife Conservation Society and the New York Botanical Gardens Weisman predicts that native vegetation would return, spreading from parks and out-surviving invasive species. Without humans to provide food and warmth, rats and cockroaches would die off.\n\nWeisman explains that a common house would begin to fall apart as water eventually leaks into the roof around the flashings, erodes the wood and rusts the nails, leading to sagging walls and eventual collapse. After 500 years, all that would be left would be aluminum dishwasher parts, stainless steel cookware, and plastic handles. The longest-lasting evidence on Earth of a human presence would be radioactive materials, ceramics, bronze statues, and Mount Rushmore. In space, the Pioneer plaques, the Voyager Golden Record, and radio waves would outlast the Earth itself.\n\nBreaking from the theme of the natural environment after humans, Weisman considers what could lead to the sudden, complete demise of humans without serious damage to the built and natural environment. That scenario, he concludes, is extremely unlikely. He also considers transhumanism, the Voluntary Human Extinction Movement, the Church of Euthanasia and John A. Leslie's \"The End of the World: the Science and Ethics of Human Extinction\". Weisman concludes the book considering a new version of the one-child policy. While he admits it is a \"draconian measure\", he states, \"The bottom line is that any species that overstretches its resource base suffers a population crash. Limiting our reproduction would be damn hard, but limiting our consumptive instincts may be even harder.\" He responded to criticism of this saying \"I knew in advance that I would touch some people's sensitive spots by bringing up the population issue, but I did so because it's been missing too long from the discussion of how we must deal with the situation our economic and demographic growth have driven us too (sic)\".\n\nThe book was first published on July 10, 2007, as a hardback in the United States by St. Martin's Thomas Dunne Books, in United Kingdom by Virgin Books and in Canada by HarperCollins. The paperback was released in July 2008. It has been translated and published in Denmark by Borgen as \"Verden uden os\", France by Groupe Flammarion as \"Homo disparitus\", in Germany by Piper as \"Die Welt ohne uns\", in Portugal by Estrela Polar as \"O Mundo Sem Nós\", in Italy by Einaudi as \"Il mondo senza di noi\", in Poland by CKA as \"Świat bez nas\", and in Japan by Hayakawa Publishing as \"Jinrui ga kieta sekai\" (人類が消えた世界 ; \"A World where the Human Race has Disappeared\").\n\nPete Garceau designed the cover art for the American release, which one critic said was \"a thick layer of sugar-coated sweetness in an effort to not alarm potential readers. 'Yes, I am a book about the environment. But I'm harmless! No, really!' \" The Canadian version, designed by Ellen Cipriano, is similar to the American version but with a photo illustration rather than the disarming cartoon illustration. Cover art for the international releases contrast the natural environment with a decaying built environment. Adam Grupper voiced the ten-hour-long, unabridged English language audiobook which was published by Macmillan Audio and BBC Audiobooks, and released simultaneously with the hardcover book. AudioFile gave the audio presentation its Earphones Award, called Grupper's reading sincere and balanced, and wrote, \"Never veering into sensationalism, always objective and phlegmatic, Grupper takes what could be a depressing topic and makes it a book you just can't stop listening to\".\n\nAs the book was released Weisman launched his book tour with stops throughout the United States, Canada and overseas to Lisbon and Brussels. Weisman did television interviews on \"The Daily Show\" and \"The Today Show\" and radio interviews on \"Weekend Edition\", \"Talk of the Nation\", \"The Diane Rehm Show\", \"Living on Earth\", \"Marketplace\", and \"As It Happens\". Meanwhile, the book debuted on the New York Times Best Seller list for non-fiction hardcovers at #10 on July 29 and spent nine weeks in the top ten, peaking at #6 on August 12 and September 9. In the Canadian market, it spent 10 weeks on \"The Globe and Mail\"'s non-fiction best seller list, peaking at #3 on August 11. The book reached #1 on the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" Best-Sellers list for non-fiction on September 23 and spent 11 weeks on the \"USA Today\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Top 150 Best-Selling Books, peaking at #48. Reviewers at the Library Journal recommended the book for all environmental collections and the audiobook for most public and academic library audiobook collections. The book ranked #1 on \"Time\" and \"Entertainment Weekly's\" top of 2007 and was listed in the Hudson Booksellers' \"Best Books published in 2007\". In the Amazon.com \"Best Books of 2007\", it placed #4 overall in the United States and #1 in the non-fiction category in Canada.\n\nThe writing style was positively received as being vivid and well-written, sometimes grim, but with appropriate language. Even an overall negative review by Michael Grunwald in \"The Washington Post\" remarked the writing was \"always lucid, sometimes elegant\". In \"The New York Times Book Review\" Jennifer Schuessler said Weisman has a \"flirtation with religious language, his occasionally portentous impassivity giving way to the familiar rhetoric of eco-hellfire\". Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" found the writing had \"an arid, plain, what-if style\" while being \"strangely uniform in tone\". On the reporting techniques, Kamiya wrote that \"[Weisman's] science reporting, at once lucid and full of wonder ... is the heart and soul of this book\" and that it is \"written as if by a compassionate and curious observer on another planet\". \"The Plain Dealer\" book editor Karen Long said Weisman \"uses the precise, unhurried language of a good science writer and shows a knack for unearthing unexpected sources and provocative facts\".\n\nSeveral critics found the lack of an anthropomorphic point of view hurt the book's relevance. Robert Braile in \"The Boston Globe\" wrote that it has \"no real context ... no rationale for probing this fantasy other than [Weisman's] unsubstantiated premise that people find it fascinating\". Michael Grunwald in \"The Washington Post\" also questioned the premise: \"Imagining the human footprint on a post-human planet might be fun for dormitory potheads who have already settled the questions of God's existence and Fergie's hotness, but it's not clear why the rest of us need this level of documentary evidence\". On the other hand, Alanna Mitchell in the \"Globe and Mail\" review found relevance in the context of society's passiveness to resource depletion combined with an anthropomorphic vanity. She writes the \"book [is] designed to help us find the how of survival by shaking us out of our passive dance with death\".\n\nThe book's environmental focus was also criticized by some. Christopher Orlet of \"The American Spectator\" wrote that it is \"a prime example of the wrongheaded, extremist views of the Greens\". Braile agrees that the book could be \"an environmentalist's nightmare, possibly fueling the cheap shots taken at the green movement ... by critics who say environmentalists care more about nature than people\". Environmentalist Alex Steffen found the book presents nothing new, but that using the sudden and clean disappearance of humans provides a unique framework, although extremely unlikely and insensitive. Two critics who call the book a \"Jeremiad\" ultimately gave it a positive review. \"The Guardian\" says \"we learn during the course of this book, to feel good about the disappearance of humanity from the Earth\".\n\nOther critics hailed the environmental perspective. Chauncey Mabe of the \"South Florida Sun-Sentinel\" calls the book \"one of the most satisfying environmental books of recent memory, one devoid of self-righteousness, alarmism or tiresome doomsaying\". Tom Spears of the CanWest News Service concludes \"it's more a portrait of ourselves, taken through an odd lens\" and \"[s]ometimes an obituary is the best biography\".\n\nThe book is categorized as non-fiction science but some commentators emphasize it may be better described as speculative fiction. \"The World Without Us\" is grounded in environmental and science journalism. Like other environmental books, it discusses the impact that the human race has had on the planet. Weisman's thought experiment removes the judgments and sufferings of humans by focusing on a hypothetical post-human world. This approach to the genre, which \"throw[s] the spotlight on the earth itself\", was found to be creative and objective. There have been other books that address similar topics, such as Gregory Benford's 1999 book \"Deep Time: How Humanity Communicates Across Millennia\". Science fiction writers such as H. G. Wells (\"The War of the Worlds\", 1898) and John Wyndham (\"The Day of the Triffids\", 1951) had earlier touched upon the possible fate of cities and other man-made structures after the sudden removal of their creators. Similar parallels in the decay of civilization are detailed in 1949 post-apocalyptic science fiction novel by Berkeley English professor George R. Stewart, \"Earth Abides.\"\n\nAddressing his approach, Weisman said that eliminating the human element eliminated the \"fear factor\" that people are doing something wrong or that they will die; it is meant to be read as a fantasy, according to the author. Josie Appleton of \"Spiked\" related the book to \"today's romanticisation of nature\" in that it linked \"the decadence and detachment of a modern consumerist society\" with an ignorance of the efforts required to produce products so easily disposed. Appleton also felt the book countered the \"Nature knows best\" notion by highlighting the randomness of natural forces.\n\nWeisman's science journalism style uses interviews with academic and professional authorities to substantiate conclusions, while maintaining the \"cool and dispassionate [tone]...of a scientific observer rather than an activist\". Weisman said he purposely avoided the activist label: \"Some of our finest science and nature writers only get read by people who already agree with them. It's nice to get some affirmation for whatever it is you believe is true, even if it's quite sobering, but I wanted to write something that people would read ... without minimizing the significance of what's going on, nor trivializing it, nor oversimplifying it.\" Richard Fortey compares the book to the works of Jared Diamond, Tim Flannery and E.O. Wilson, and writes that \"The World Without Us\" \"narrowly avoids engendering the gloom-and-doom ennui that tends to engulf the poor reader after reading a catalogue of human rapacity\". Mark Lynas in the \"New Statesman\" noted that \"whereas most environmental books sag under the weight of their accumulated bad news, \"The World Without Us\" seems refreshingly positive\". Demonstrating the optimism on the grim subject matter Appleton quotes an ecologist from the book saying \"if the planet can recover from the Permian, it can recover from the human\".\n\n\nThere have been several TV specials relating to the same topic:\n\nThe 2009 hip-hop song \"The High Line\" by Kinetics & One Love, inspired by \"The World Without Us\", is a pro-green, anti-deforestation song that paints the picture of trees and plants reclaiming the buildings of New York City long after the presence of humans. Like author Alan Weisman, rapper Kinetics uses the High Line railway in Manhattan as an example of nature’s potential for reclamation of manmade structures.\n\nThe 2013 video game \"The Last of Us\", which takes place twenty years after an apocalyptic event, uses \"The World Without Us\" as inspiration for the look of the city settings.\n\nIn 2009 20th Century Fox purchased the rights to the book with the intent of creating a motion picture.\n"}
{"id": "3883287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3883287", "title": "Tranquillity", "text": "Tranquillity\n\nTranquillity (also spelled tranquility) is the quality or state of being tranquil; that is, calm, serene, and worry-free. The word tranquillity appears in numerous texts ranging from the religious writings of Buddhism, where the term \"passaddhi\" refers to tranquillity of the body, thoughts and consciousness on the path to enlightenment, to an assortment of policy and planning guidance documents, where interpretation of the word is typically linked to engagement with the natural environment.\n\nPsychological being in a tranquil or ‘restorative’ environment allows individuals to take respite from the periods of sustained ‘directed attention’ that characterise modern living. In developing their Attention Restoration Theory (ART), Kaplan and Kaplan proposed that recovery from cognitive overload could most effectively be achieved by engaging with natural restorative environments, that are away from daily distractions and have the extent and mystery that allows the imagination to wander, thereby enabling individuals to engage effortlessly with their surroundings. The theory works on the principle that the amount of reflection possible within such an environment depends upon the type of cognitive engagement, i.e. fascination; that the environment holds. ‘Soft fascination’ is deemed to occur when there is enough interest in the surroundings to hold attention but not so much that it compromises the ability to reflect. In essence, soft fascination, which has been taken by Herzog and Pheasant as a reasonable term to describe tranquillity, provides a pleasing level of sensory input that involves no cognitive effort other than removing oneself from an overcrowded mental space.\n\nFor many, the chance to experience tranquillity is what makes the countryside different from cities. In a survey by the United Kingdom Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) 58% of people said that tranquillity was the most positive feature of the countryside.\n\nIn contrast to ‘soft fascination’, ‘directed attention’ requires a significant amount of cognitive effort and it is known that prolonged periods of sustained mental activity can lead to directed attention fatigue. This condition has the potential to significantly affect performance and bring about negative emotions, irritability and decreased sensitivity to interpersonal cues. As the incidence of mental illness continues to rise, there is growing evidence that exposure to natural environments can make a significant contribution to health and wellbeing. Mounting evidence shows, that exposure to nature contributes to physical and psychological wellbeing, such as the review carried out by Louv, that found evidence of ‘nature-deficit-disorder’ in children, which suggests that the importance of being able to engage with restorative environments applies across a wide age range. \nOthers report that natural tranquil surroundings have profound physiological effects on people suffering from stress. For example, Ullrich found that stress (as measured by blood pressure, muscle tension and skin conductance response), induced by showing videos of workplace injuries, improved significantly quicker following further viewing if videos included natural surroundings rather than busy traffic or shopping scenes. A recent study has demonstrated the benefits of simulating such environments for pain relief during bone marrow aspirate and biopsy.\n\nSince seeking tranquillity is an important reason why many people visit the countryside, the presence of tranquil areas helps boost rural tourism. Since rural tourism in the UK directly supports 380,000 jobs and £13.8 billion annually to the economy, and a recent survey showed that tranquillity is the main reason why 49% of visitors go are attracted to the countryside, one can conclude that tranquillity is worth 186,200 jobs and £6.76 billion a year to the economy.\n\nNatural settings that effortlessly engage our attention are typically associated with soft fascination and with the analysis of tranquillity and preference published by Herzog and Bosely (1992). In this study, the authors attempted to distinguish empirically between the constructs of tranquillity and preference as affective qualities of natural environments. Motivated by ART, from which they took tranquillity as a reasonable term to describe soft fascination, they produced definitions for each component. Tranquillity they defined as \"how much you think this setting is a quiet, peaceful place, a good place to get away from everyday life\", and preference as \"how much you like this setting for whatever reason\".\nSubjects were asked to score the following visual settings: mountains, deserts, fields / forests and waterscapes against the two target variables, tranquillity and preference, and four descriptor variables: mistiness, unstructured openness, focus and surface calmness. Tranquillity and preference were positively correlated across all settings with tranquillity scoring higher ratings in the field / forest, waterscape and mountain categories, whilst rushing water had the highest rating in the preference category.\nAnalysis of the results identified three physical features that help explain the apparent split between tranquillity and preference. These were; mistiness, unstructured openness; which refers to how open the scene is and how difficult it is to establish a sense of depth or distance, and surface calmness. Mistiness and unstructured openness tended to depress preference relative to tranquillity whilst surface calmness tended to enhance it. Herzog and Barnes conducted a follow up study in which deserts and waterscapes were included in the setting types. In 2000, Herzog and Chernick conducted further research into the tranquillity construct when they investigated the relationship between tranquillity and danger in urban and rural settings.\nThe key results that emerged from this research were that ‘setting care’, which relates to how safe we feel in a particular setting, is more salient for judgments of danger in urban settings than natural ones and that openness was a significant predictor of danger but not of tranquillity. The authors concluded therefore that tranquillity and danger should not simply be viewed as polar opposites, but like preference and tranquillity as distinct constructs.\n\nWithin tranquillity studies, much of the emphasis has been placed on understanding the role of vision in the perception of natural environments, which is probably not surprising, considering that upon first viewing a scene its configurational coherence can be established with incredible speed. Indeed, scene information can be captured in a single glance and the gist of a scene determined in as little as 100ms. The speed of processing of complex natural images was tested by Thorpe \"et al.\" using colour photographs of a wide range of animals (mammals, birds, reptiles and fish), in their natural environments, mixed with distracters that included pictures of forests, mountains, lakes, buildings and fruit. During this experiment, subjects were shown an image for 20ms and asked to determine whether it contained an animal or not. The electrophysiological brain responses obtained in this study showed that a decision could be made within 150ms of the image being seen, indicating the speed at which cognitive visual processing occurs.\nHowever, audition, and in particular the individual components that collectively comprise the soundscape, a term coined by Schafer to describe the ever-present array of sounds that constitute the sonic environment, also significantly inform the various schemata used to characterise differing landscape types. This interpretation is supported by the auditory reaction times, which are 50 to 60ms faster than that of the visual modality. It is also known that sound can alter visual perception and that under certain conditions areas of the brain involved in processing auditory information can be activated in response to visual stimuli. \nResearch conducted by Pheasant \"et al.\" has shown that when individuals make tranquillity assessments based on a uni-modal auditory or visual sensory input, they characterise the environment by drawing upon a number of key landscape and soundscape characteristics. For example, when making assessments in response to visual-only stimuli the percentage of water, flora and geological features present within a scene, positively influence how tranquil a location is perceived to be. Likewise when responding to uni-modal auditory stimuli, the perceived loudness of biological sounds positively influences the perception of tranquillity, whilst the perceived loudness of mechanical sounds have a negative effect. However, when presented with bi-modal auditory-visual stimuli the individual soundscape and landscape components alone no longer influenced the perception of tranquillity. Rather configurational coherence was provided by the percentage of natural and contextual features present within the scene and the equivalent continuous sound pressure level (LAeq).\n\nResearchers at the Bradford Centre for Sustainable Environments have developed a methodology by which the perceived tranquillity rating (TR) of an amenity area such as park, green or urban square can be measured, on a 0 - 10 scale. The method involves the assessment of average daytime noise levels Lday (usually traffic noise) and the measurement of the percentage of natural and contextual features NCF contained within the visual scene. The latter includes the percentage area in the visual scene occupied by natural features in the landscape such as vegetation, water and geological features, e.g. exposed rock outcrops, and contextual features. These contextual elements include listed buildings, religious and historic buildings, landmarks, monuments and elements of the landscape, such as traditional farm buildings, that directly contribute to the visual context of the natural environment. Lastly, the equation includes moderating factors (MF) that can influence the perception of tranquillity in either a positive, or a negative way. \nTR = 9.68 + 0.041 NCF – 0.146 Lday + MF \n\nThese moderating factors are not expected to be large and because they are relatively difficult to quantify they are the subject of ongoing research. One potentially effective solution to improving tranquillity, is to mask traffic noise or distract attention with an attractive water sound. A previous experiment has demonstrated that water generated sounds have the potential to improve the perceived tranquillity of gardens blighted by noise. A further study has demonstrated that litter has the potential to degrade an environment such that the tranquillity rating drops on average by one scale point.\n\nThis bi-modal relationship is supported by work recently carried out by SCANLab at the University of Sheffield, using fMRI neuro-imaging techniques. This study demonstrated for the first time the significant differences in effective connectivity between areas of the brain, namely the auditory cortex and the medial pre-frontal cortex, under tranquil and non-tranquil conditions. Specifically the medial pre-frontal cortex receives significantly enhanced contributions from the auditory cortex when presented with a tranquil visual scene compared with non-tranquil visual stimuli.\n\nThe first method of mapping tranquillity was developed by Simon Rendel of ASH Consulting for a Department of Transport study in 1991. This led to the production of a set of Tranquil Area maps covering England, produced by Rendel and ASH Consulting and published by the Campaign to Protect Rural England (CPRE) and the former Countryside Commission.\n\nIn these maps \"tranquil areas\" were defined as \"places sufficiently far from the visual or noise intrusion of development or traffic to be considered unspoilt by urban influences\".\n\nMore sophisticated mapping techniques are now available following work by researchers at Northumbria University, Newcastle University, and CPRE.\n\nMaps have been produced for the whole of England that show the tranquillity score of Ordnance Survey Grid derived 500mx500m squares. The tranquillity rating for these is based on 44 different factors that add to or detract from people’s feelings of tranquillity. These factors were defined following extensive public consultations.\n\nThe new methodology uses advanced modelling techniques to look at the diffusion of the impact of these factors over distance, taking into account the terrain of the land. For example, the tranquillity increases gradually the further one is from a busy road, but increases more sharply if the road is hidden in a cutting.\n\nThe mapping process was developed by Northumbria and Newcastle Universities. The dark green areas represent those with the highest composite tranquillity score; dark red areas have the lowest composite tranquillity score (i.e., are least tranquil).\n\n\n\nNote: This cartographic study showed that tranquillity is not the absence of all noise, activity and buildings. Indeed, it found that many rural activities, such as farming and hiking, and natural noises such as birdsong and cows lowing, enhance people’s experience of tranquillity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "273869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273869", "title": "Ulrich Beck", "text": "Ulrich Beck\n\nUlrich Beck (15 May 1944 – 1 January 2015) was a well known German sociologist, and one of the most cited social scientists in the world during his lifetime. His work focused on questions of uncontrollability, ignorance and uncertainty in the modern age, and he coined the terms \"risk society\" and \"second modernity\" or \"reflexive modernization\". He also tried to overturn national perspectives that predominated in sociological investigations with a cosmopolitanism that acknowledges the interconnectedness of the modern world. He was a professor at the University of Munich and also held appointments at the \"Fondation Maison des Sciences de l’Homme\" (FMSH) in Paris, and at the London School of Economics.\n\nBeck was born in the Pomeranian town of Stolp, Germany (now Słupsk in Poland), in 1944, and grew up in Hanover. He began university studies with a focus on law at Freiburg, and from 1966 onwards studied sociology, philosophy, psychology and political science at the University of Munich. Starting in 1972, after earning a doctorate, he was employed at Munich as a sociologist. In 1979 he qualified as a university lecturer with a habilitation thesis. He received appointments as professor at the universities of Münster (1979–1981) and Bamberg (1981–1992). From 1992 until his death, Beck was professor of sociology and director of the Institute for Sociology at the University of Munich. He received numerous international awards and honors, including election to the Council and Executive Board of the German Society for Sociology.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1997 he was a member of the \"Kommission für Zukunftsfragen der Freistaaten Bayern und Sachsen\" (Bavarian and Saxon State Commission for Questions Concerning the Future). Beginning in 1999, he was the speaker of the DFG research programme on reflexive modernity.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2009 Beck was a spokesman of the Collaborative Reflexive Modernization Research Centre 536, an interdisciplinary consortium of four universities in the Munich area funded and overseen by the German Research Foundation (DFG). Beck's theory of interdisciplinary reflexive modernization on a basis of a wide range of topics in appropriate research was empirically tested. The theory of reflexive modernization works from the basic idea that the rise of the modern industrial age produces side-effects across the globe that provide the institutional basis and coordinates that modern nation-states question, modify, and open for political action.\n\nHe was active as sociologist and public intellectual in Germany and throughout the world, regularly intervening in debates on the European Union, climate change and nuclear energy. At the time of his death, he and his international research group were only 1.5 years into the 5-year research project \"Methodological Cosmopolitanism – in the Laboratory of Climate Change\" (the Cosmo-Climate Research Project), of which Beck was the Principal investigator. For this research project he received the prestigious ERC Advanced Grant, scheduled to terminate in 2018. Along with Beck, sociologists David Tyfield and Anders Blok lead work packages within the overall project. The project also fostered international research collaboration with various research 'hubs' in East Asia through the Europe-Asia Research Network (EARN). In cooperation with EARN, Beck and sociologist Sang-Jin Han had been set to lead a 2-year project for the Seoul Metropolitan Government beginning in 2015.\n\nBeck was a member of the Board of Trustees at the Jewish Center in Munich and a member of the German branch of PEN International.\n\nHe was married to the German social scientist Elisabeth Beck-Gernsheim. He died of a cardiac infarction on 1 January 2015, at the age of 70.\n\nFor 25 years, Beck delivered new diagnoses to the following question: How can social and political thought and action in the face of radical global change (environmental destruction, financial crisis, global warming, the crisis of democracy and the nation-state institutions) be intertwined in a new modernity? A radicalized modernity, for Beck, attacks its own foundations. Institutions such as the nation-state and the family are globalized 'from the inside'.\n\nBeck studied modernization, ecological problems, individualization and globalization. Later in his career, he embarked on exploring the changing conditions of work in a world of increasing global capitalism, declining influence of unions and flexibilisation of the labour process, a then new theory rooted in the concept of cosmopolitanism. Beck also contributed a number of new words to German and anglophone sociology, including \"risk society\", \"second modernity\", reflexive modernization and Brazilianization (Brasilianisierung). According to Beck, all contemporary political thinking emanates from the methodological nationalism of political thought and sociology (and other social sciences).\n\nBeck was the editor of the sociological journal, \"\" (in German, since 1980), author of some 150 articles, and author or editor of many books.\n\nOn 15 September 2010 Beck supported the European Parliament's Spinelli Group initiative to reinvigorate federalism in the European Union. The Union of European Federalists and its youth organisation Young European Federalists have been promoting the idea of European federalism for over 60 years, with a \"belief that only a European Federation, based on the idea of unity in diversity, could overcome the division of the European continent\". Prominent supporters of the initiative include Jacques Delors, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Guy Verhofstadt, Andrew Duff and Elmar Brok.\n\n\nAmong his major works are:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28372485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28372485", "title": "Verbal self defense", "text": "Verbal self defense\n\nVerbal self-defense, also known as verbal judo or verbal aikido, is defined as using one's words to prevent, de-escalate, or end an attempted assault.\n\nIt is a way of using words to maintain mental and emotional safety. This kind of \"conflict management\" involves using posture and body language, tone of voice, and choice of words as a means for calming a potentially volatile situation before it can manifest into physical violence. This often involves techniques such as taking a time-out, deflecting the conversation to less argumentative topics, and/or redirecting the conversation to other individuals in the group who are less passionately involved.\n\nVerbal self-defense experts have widely varying definitions of what it is and how it is applied. These include everything from a person simply saying no to someone else or repeatedly refusing a request to telling someone who has violated a personal boundary what he/she ought to know. It could even entail a more complicated scenario in which a person is called on to refuse to engage verbally with someone manipulative, to set limits, and to end the conversation.\n\nIn any definition it is always agreed that verbal self-defense is necessary as a means of enforcing personal boundaries and limits. Part of learning these skills includes learning how to identify communication triggers which cause a person to experience negative feelings and, in some cases, what those triggers represent with regards to what personal values the other person are violating.\n\nThe abusive types of communication that verbal self-defense is designed to acknowledge and deal with also vary greatly. This includes indirect forms of abuse such as backhanded comments, and backstabbing or two-faced behaviors. As well, verbal self-defense is meant to address more commonly recognized forms of abuse such as yelling, belittling, and name calling. Going beyond verbal attacks, abusive behaviors also recognized in the field of verbal self-defense are aggressive posturing (taking a threatening posture or making a threatening gesture), physically interfering with personal belongings, and inappropriately intruding on one's personal space..\n\nMost experts who write and publish articles and books on the subject of verbal self-defense identify several key elements to strong verbal self-defense skills.\n\n\nAuthors and professional instructors offering seminars and workshops have differing views with regard to whether or not verbal self-defense is a form of \"persuasion\" and if \"consequences\" for the attacker should be considered a key component.\n\nIn the field of verbal self-defense, the one element not entirely agreed upon is the concept that verbal defense tactics include the art of persuasion. Several authors clearly proclaim that verbal self-defense is designed as a means for persuading others; however, more recent books on the subject have denounced this commonly accepted fact.\n\nThe newer definition of verbal self-defense divides persuasion into a category of its own and states that verbal defense tactics should be more in line with the concept of physical self-defense. This idea, taken from ideologies of martial arts, puts forth the belief that verbal self-defense should only be used with respect to maintaining one's mental and emotional well-being. The position regarding self-protection in a verbal conflict and the further intention to protect the verbal assailant is posited in Verbal Aikido, which aims at proposing a balanced or collaborative result wherein the attacker may save face.\n\nJust as a martial artist would not use skills against someone who was not threatening them, verbal self-defense artists should not consider their skills as a means of influencing others. The concern is that verbal self defense and \"verbal manipulation\" are not one and the same. Proponents of verbal self-defense as a way to influence and guide others, however, argue that skills of persuasion can be used as a way to ensure one's mental and emotional safety.\n\nThe requirement for having a means to enforce \"consequences\" on people as a pre-requisite for effective verbal self-defense still remains questionable. Almost every author on the subject includes ways of handling non-physical aggression without having any repercussions for the attacker in the event the conflict is not solved amicably.\n\nWith specific regard to verbal self-defense in schools the concept of having consequences for bullying is considered by some to be key, where others are less focused on punishment and choose, instead, to put more emphasis on dealing with the aggressor in more positive ways. Although this topic has only recently begun being addressed by experts in this field it remains to be seen to what degree the importance of consequences will have in handling interpersonal conflicts using verbal self-defense.\n\nLeading authors in the area of verbal self-defense and defensive communication styles offer several different techniques for defusing potentially volatile and/or abusive situations of conflict.\n\nBeing aware of situations that will likely lead to verbal conflict or abuse and making an effort to avoid them.\n\nOnce engaged in an argument, situation of conflict, or when being verbally attacked, making an excuse and exiting the area.\n\nChanging topic or focus on the interaction as a means of avoiding any disagreement or negative reaction on the part of the aggressor.\n\nOpenly offering ideas and seeking ways to placate the attacker and/or their reasons for the abusive communication.\n\nA means of communication that is based on the aikido philosophy and martial way, created and propagated by Morihei Ueshiba during the 20th century. It is a style of conflict management and resolution that involves treating the 'attacker' as a partner rather than an adversary. The techniques practised by Aikidoists aim at restoring a balanced interpersonal dynamic and/or reaching a positive emotional result in an exchange.\n\nIn a common teaching of this communication style, developed by Luke Archer, the approach is simplified into three steps:\n\nThrough the methods and exercises taught in Verbal Aikido training, the practitioner works on developing a sense of self-control, an assertive style of communication, and the practice of deliberate intention.\n\nWebsites and news stories stating the rise in bullying in the workplace and on the playground has led to a recent increase in awareness of the art of verbal self-defense. Considered a form of communication, verbal self-defense has become a sought after skill in schools and workplaces around the world as a way to counter this unhealthy trend.\n\nIncidents of school and workplace shootings have put strong emphasis on being more aware of bullying, and consequently the need for a means to respond to such events have led to a growth in the field of verbal self-defense. Today, more and more individuals are presenting themselves as verbal self-defense experts and offering individual and corporate training, both on and off line, as a way to battle bullying at school, in the workplace and on the Internet.\n\nWith the increased awareness of bullying in the workplace, it has become necessary for companies and organizations to ensure they meet the requirements of due diligence with regard to maintaining a safe work environment. U.S. and international laws have even gone so far as to recognize workplace bullying as its own form of harassment. Today, it is becoming common for businesses in almost every industry around the world to start providing their staff and employees with training designed to address and minimize the effects from incidents of workplace bullying.\n\nSince the school-shooting incident in Columbine there has been greater emphasis on stopping acts of school-yard bullying. Many educational institutions around the world have implemented anti-bullying campaigns with great success. In each of these campaigns it is common to find at least one of the anti-bullying tactics specifically addressing the need for victims of bullying to say something as a way to verbally defend themselves.\n\nIn written form, verbal self-defense is meant to address concepts such as cyberbullying. This includes addressing hostile and hurtful messages posted on social networks such as Facebook and MySpace, as well as in online forums and chat rooms. With ongoing investigations into teen bullycides (a suicide caused as the result of depression from bullying, especially children) finding more than ever before the link directly to cyberbullying by classmates, the need of verbal self-defense skills for teens has led to a number of new books specifically addressing this subject.\n\nSeveral people are considered to be significant contributors to the field of verbal self-defense. These include people who were early pioneers to advocate for the importance of verbal defense skills, developers of new techniques for verbally defensive tactics, and internationally recognized and known trainers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58710442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58710442", "title": "Violence against people with disabilities", "text": "Violence against people with disabilities\n\nBoth adults and children who have some form of disability will experience acts of violence against them more often than those without disabilities. Children with disabilities are 3.7 times more likely to be affected by any sort of violence, 3.6 times more likely to be victims of physical violence, 2.9 times more likely to be victims of sexual violence, and children with intellectual impairment are among the most vulnerable being 4.6 times more likely to experience sexual violence than their non-disabled peers.\n\nAn article published by the World Health Organization titled \"Prevalence and risk of violence against adults with disabilities: a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies\" revealed that adults with any form of disability are 1.5 times more likely to experience some form of violence while adults with some form of mental impairment are 4 times more likely to experience violence than those without disabilities. \n\nAs mentioned by Powers and Oschwald, there are seven categories of abusive behavior defined by both male and female individuals who have some form of disability: physical abuse, sexual abuse, verbal or emotional abuse, neglect or withholding support, financial abuse, manipulation of medications, and destroying or disabling equipment. With the scope of abuse being clearly defined, we can begin building evidence and empirical data from the individual experiences to find and implement solutions where they are most effective.\n\nWhen comparing and contrasting Institutional and Non-Institutional cases of violence against people with disabilities, we find that 82% of violence against people who are disabled happens when they are Institutionalized. Common thought is that Institutions \"inherently promote abuse and dehumanization.\" Although, Institutionalized cases are far more present than Non-Institutionalized cases, statistics show that sexual assault based violence is 7 times more probable among intellectually disabled people and that number jumps to 12 times more probable if that person is a woman compared to a non-disabled peer.\n\nAge plays a major factor when looking into non-institutionalized violence. Those who have some form of disability ranging from the ages of 12 to 15 experience violence at a rate of 144.1 out of 1000 persons compared to their non-disabled peers at a rate of 38.8 out of a thousand with a rate difference being 105.3. Disabled teens ranging from the ages of 16 to 19 experience violence at a rate of 86.6 out of 1000 persons compared to their non-disabled peers at the rate of 31.4 out of 1000 persons. Examining the age ranges of 20 to 24, and 25 to 34 collectively to represent a persons twenties to mid thirties, the data shows that people with a some form of disability in that age range goes at a rate of 147.9 out of 1000 persons compared to 55.9 to their non-disabled peers with a rate difference of 92 out of 1000.\n\nExamining statistics from \"Crime Against Persons with Disabilities\" table 5, results highlight that females between the ages of 12 and higher experience slightly higher percentages of violence among the disabled community compared to males of the same age group except for ambulatory disabilities. The rate of violence committed against men with a cognitive disability is 55.4 while females are at 60.3 out of 1000. Ambulatory disability being the only category where men have a higher rate comes to 29.6 while females are at 29.3 with a difference of 0.3. Visual impairment has a significant affect on the outcome of violence between the sexes as men are at a rate of 24.6 while females are 32.3 out of 1000 concluding a difference of 7.7. Lastly, table 8 displays a slight difference of 1.8 between the sexes with males at 15 while females are at 16.8.\n\nReferencing \"Crime Against Persons with Disabilities\" table 8, it is evident that persons with disabilities are at risk of a higher rate of violence committed against them than their non-disabled peers. Additionally, according to the data, individuals who have some form of disability are at a higher risk of being victimized by a well-known or casual acquaintance over a complete stranger unlike their non-disabled peers; people whom have experienced an act of violence by a stranger with a disability being at 30.3% while non-disabled people are at 39.4% by a complete stranger.\n\n• Mental disorder#Violence\n\n• Sexual abuse and intellectual disability\n\n• Ableism\n"}
{"id": "41188056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41188056", "title": "Waste broker", "text": "Waste broker\n\nA Waste broker is someone within the waste industry who acts as middle man between other waste industry parties. They are required to be registered with the Environment Agency.\n\nThe client would typically have some rubbish (trash) to take away, and rather than ring round a few contractors in the area they ring the Waste Broker, and give them all the details of what they want. This Broker person or organisation will have a list of those contractors in the area, and it is they who will do the ringing round or emailing, to see who is available to do the client's pickup.\n\nThe client might be a producer of recycled materials, and want to sell them. They will contact a Trade Broker who performs a similar function.\nUsually the Waste Broker is local or at most national, but the Trade Broker could be arranging shipments between countries.\n\nWRAP (definition of Waste Broker): http://aggregain.wrap.org.uk/terminology/waste_broker.html\n\nWho needs to register?\n\nBroker Responsibilities: http://www.netregs.org.uk/library_of_topics/waste/waste_carrier,_broker,_dealer/waste_brokers_responsibilities.aspx\n\nMagazine article: http://www.waste-management-world.com/articles/2012/10/waste-management-brokers-are-good-for-business.html\n\nScotland: http://www.sepa.org.uk/waste/waste_regulation/application_forms/waste_carriers_and_brokers.aspx\n\nWales: http://naturalresourceswales.gov.uk/apply-buy-report/apply-buy-grid/waste/register-as-a-carrier/?lang=en#.UpNRyift9vE\n"}
{"id": "27097736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27097736", "title": "Zest (positive psychology)", "text": "Zest (positive psychology)\n\nIn positive psychology, zest is one of the 24 strengths possessed by humanity. As a component of the virtue of courage, zest is defined as living life with a sense of excitement, anticipation, and energy. Approaching life as an adventure; such that one has “motivation in challenging situations or tasks”. Zest is essentially a concept of courage, and involves acquiring the motivation to complete challenging situations and tasks. Those who have zest exude enthusiasm, excitement and energy while approaching tasks in life. Hence, the concept of zest involves performing tasks wholeheartedly, whilst also being adventurous, vivacious and energetic. It discourages the focus on the negative views of psychology. It embraces a notion that one must observe people that \"live well\" in order to truly understand positive psychology. (For example, a Buddhist monk would be a preferred subject of observation compared to a college student.) Zestful people simply enjoy things more than people low in zestfulness. Zest is a positive trait reflecting a person’s approach to life with anticipation, energy, enthusiasm and excitement.\n\nChristopher Peterson and Martin Seligman developed terminology to describe human strengths. They developed a descriptive list of six human virtues (Wisdom and Knowledge, Courage, Humanity, Justice, Temperance, and Transcendence) comprising 24 strengths. Zest is one of the four strengths that combine to make up the virtue of courage, as defined by this system.\n\nThe VIA-IS is a self-report questionnaire that assesses the strength with which respondents answer strength-relevant statements about themselves on a 1-5 Likert scale. The following statements on the VIA-IS are used to measure a persons zest: I look forward to each new day; I cannot wait to get started on a project; I want to fully participate in life, not just view it from the sidelines.\n\nAs with many other constructs in the relatively new field of Positive Psychology, it is difficult to quantify zest. Other traits like socioeconomic status, which can easily be measured by gross income per household, or constructs like fear, which can be quantified by changes in heart rate, skin conductance, and pupil dilation, have much more defined and widely accepted methods of measure. However, measurements of Zest are still in the beginning stages of development. How do we measure how energetic one person is compared to another? How do we determine exactly how excited a person is about life? What precisely does it mean to approach life adventurously? These are just a few of the questions that must be answered to most effectively research zest.\n\nRelating to the problem of operationalizing zest, much of the research currently done on this and many of the 24 character strengths are done via self-report. A Self report study is one in which participants are simply asked to report their own feelings or thoughts. There are many problems in research associated with self-report. The most pertinent one being the validity and reliability of measures as they are completely subjective rather than objective. People can misrepresent themselves or misinterpret the questions posed to them.\n\nSince such data is not the most scientifically convincing body of evidence upon which to rest scientific conclusions, Positive Psychological research is very focused on developing more objective measures for topics such as zest in order to help build a stronger science of organizational behavior.\n\nZest can be promoted in the workplace so that workers can have a more positive approach in their life which indirectly can affect their anticipation, excitement, and energy in the workplace. Evidence from a present study that had 9803 employed adults respond to a survey on an internet site, measured zest, orientation to work as a calling, and satisfaction to work and life in general. The survey showed that for many of the employees, work was a calling and a satisfaction. Employers can use such information to increase the productivity of their employees by taking zest into consideration. The study found that professionals had the highest zest, while clerical workers and homemakers were the least zestful. Professionals and homemakers viewed their job as a calling, while clerical workers were the least likely to do so. Clerical workers displayed one of the lowest levels of zest because in most instances they viewed their work as a career, a pedestal in the hopes of acquiring status and power to find a more suitable job for themselves in the future. The results of this study follow trends observed by many other studies as well.\n\nZest is speculated to be contagious just like many other strengths of character. Zest is obviously connected to, if not equal to group morale and can be a point of discussion for new studies from a positive organizational perspective with emphasis on zest. Psychologists have learned about two main ways of promoting zest within workers: physical fitness and health set the tone for zest and it can be sustained through hope and optimism. Depression is a well-documented enemy of zest, and its toll on productivity and physical health is enormous. The prevention or reduction of depression among workers might pay the additional benefit of increasing their sense that work is a calling.\n\nZest is also linked to psychological well-being which is crucial in a work organization. For instance, psychological well-being predicts improved job performance, reduced absenteeism and reduced employee turnover. These are all benefits that can be explored more critically to make changes in the workplace.\n\nIncreasing zestfulness is highly likely to increase the ability to be habitually happy.\n\nThe results of a 2009 study on 228 schoolteacher in Hong Kong indicated that zest was often associated with positive emotions as well as increased levels of life satisfaction in teachers. It is suggested that cultivating zest in school teachers could help combat teacher burnout. Overall, zest is said to be one character strength that coincides with healthy working behaviors such as ambition, creativity, persistence and leadership, demonstrating that strengths-based interventions that cultivate zest can help improve work environments (see application for more information).It is also suggested that zest should be cultivated in the workplace in order to increase work satisfaction as well as general life satisfaction. The cultivation of zest may also decrease workplace burnout, which is the loss of productivity and enthusiasm for working.\n\nZest, along with gratitude, hope, curiosity and love, are important aspects of positive psychology and key to positive character development. The adequate promotion of these characteristics not only in domestic life but also in schools and other educational environments is extremely important to positive youth development. Furthermore, through promotion of character strengths such as zest children tend to experience fewer psychological problems such as depression and anxiety disorders. In fact, research shows that zest, along with hope and leadership, is associated with fewer issues with anxiety and depression. This suggests that the cultivation of zest can serve as a buffer against mental illness.\n\nYouths with high levels of zest also tend to excel academically and lead happier, brighter lives. More emphasis needs to be placed on positive developing characteristics such as zest, gratitude, hope, curiosity and love in schooling environments and live in general so that youth successfully and positively develop.\n\nZest has been found to be linked to higher levels of life satisfaction among adults as well as youths. Studies suggest that certain character strengths, including zest as well as curiosity, gratitude, hope, and humor are highly correlated with life satisfaction, whereas others strengths demonstrate low correlations with life satisfaction (appreciation of beauty and excellence, creativity, kindness, love of learning and perspective) It is suggested that zest is associated with higher life satisfaction because it is associated with living in the \"here and now,\" which is also associated with life satisfaction. Furthermore, it is difficult to imagine zestful people who are often unhappy.\n\nCertain character strengths, including zest, have been found to be more common among youths than adults. This possibly reflects the influence of social and cognitive maturation and certain needs during different developmental periods \n\nIn yet another study that reaffirmed the idea that zest was one of the VIA character strengths that had a strong link to life satisfaction, another trend in zest was discovered. This study indicated slight gender differences in levels of zest. For women, life satisfaction was predicted by zest, gratitude, hope, appreciation of beauty and love, whereas men's life satisfaction was predicted by creativity, perspective, fairness and humor. These findings go along with gender stereotypes and suggest that life satisfaction comes when one lives according to the strengths especially valued in one's culture.\n\nThere is evidence on the VIA-Youth subscale that zest is correlated with higher levels of neuroticism as well.\n\nLevels of zest have been found to be linked with post-traumatic growth, meaning that levels of zest increased with each traumatic event. This suggest that people may be more resilient than existing theories state, given the correlation between traumatic events and increases in character strengths such as zest \n\nThere are a few working ways to help individuals cultivate zest:\n\nOne method to cultivate zest is acting \"as if,' which involves living a \"faith-based\" rather than an \"evidenced-based\" life. This means believing in things that there may not be much evidence for or proof of. Additionally, adopting strong body language may help, as well as \"faking it until you make it\" meaning acting as though one has an increased enthusiasm for life (more zest) until that increased enthusiasm is a reality (thus, an increase in zest is a reality) .\n\nAnother 2012 study demonstrated that groups that trained strengths (worked to cultivate these strengths) which are highly correlated with life satisfaction (including zest), had significant improvements in self-reported life satisfaction post-test (after training those strengths). Zest can be an important characteristic to cultivate life satisfaction, thereby acting as a potential buffer against mental illness.\n\n"}
