{"id": "39621506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39621506", "title": "Afro-Antiguan and Barbudan", "text": "Afro-Antiguan and Barbudan\n\nAfro-Antiguans and Afro-Barbudans are Antiguans and Barbudans of entirely or predominantly African (notably West African) descent.\n\nAccording to the 2013 Census, 91% of Antigua and Barbuda's population is Black and 4.4% is Mulatto.\n\nMost of the enslaved Africans brought to Antigua and Barbuda disembarked from the Bight of Biafra (22,000 Africans) and the Gold Coast (16,000 Africans). Other African slaves came from the Windward Coast (11,000 Africans), the West Central Africa (9,000 Africans), the Bight of Benin (6,000 Africans), Senegambia (5,000 Africans), Guinea and Sierra Leone (4,000 Africans).\n\nSettlers raised tobacco, indigo, ginger, and sugarcane as cash crops. Sir Christopher Codrington established the first large sugar estate in Antigua in 1674, and leased Barbuda to raise provisions for his plantations. In the fifty years after Codrington established his initial plantation, the sugar industry became so profitable that many farmers replaced other crops with sugar, making it the economic backbone of the islands. Codrington and others brought slaves from Africa's western coast to work the plantations. Africans started arriving in Antigua and Barbuda in large numbers during the 1670s; they soon became the largest racial group of Antigua and Barbuda.\n\nWith all others in the British Empire, Antiguan and Barbudan slaves were emancipated in 1834, but remained economically dependent upon the plantation owners. Economic opportunities for the new freedmen were limited by a lack of surplus farming land, no access to credit, and an economy built on agriculture rather than manufacturing. Poor labour conditions persisted until 1939, when a member of a royal commission urged the formation of a trade union movement.\n\nIn the 20th-century was redefined the role of Afro-Antiguans and Barbudans. The colonial social structure gradually started to be phased out with the introduction of universal education and better economic opportunities.\n"}
{"id": "37052093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37052093", "title": "Aluo language", "text": "Aluo language\n\nAluo (autonym: \"ɑ55 lo33 pho55\"; Naluo) is a Loloish language spoken by the Yi people of China. It is also known by its Nasu name \"Laka\" (also \"Gan Yi, Yala, Lila, Niluo\").\n\nGao (2017:31) notes that in Wuding County, Yunnan, Aluo and Naluo are equivalent terms for the same Yi subgroup. \"Naluo\" in the \"Wuding County Gazetteer\" (1990) actually refers to \"Aluo\" speakers (Gao 2017:31). \"Naluo\" is not to be confused with \"Naruo\", a Taloid (Central Loloish) language of northern Yunnan.\n\nAluo is spoken in north Wuding, Luquan, and Yuanmou counties, Yunnan, and in Huili and Miyi counties, Sichuan. Gao (2017) reports that Aluo (autonym: a⁵⁵lu³³pʰu⁵⁵; also known as the Gan Yi) is spoken in northwestern Wuding County as well as in Sichuan. YYFC (1983) documents Aluo (autonym: ʔᴀ⁵⁵lɑ̱³³pʰo⁵⁵) of Dongpo Township 东坡傣族乡, Wuding County, Yunnan.\n\n"}
{"id": "31959070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31959070", "title": "American Women's Voluntary Services", "text": "American Women's Voluntary Services\n\nAmerican Women's Voluntary Services (AWVS) was the largest American women's service organization in the United States during World War II (WWII). AWVS provided women volunteers who provided support services to help the nation during the war such as message delivery, ambulance driving, selling war bonds, emergency kitchens, cycle corps drivers, dog-sled teamsters, aircraft spotters, navigation, aerial photography, fighting fires, truck driving, and canteen workers. Some of its work overlapped with the Office of Civilian Defense and the American Red Cross.\n\nAlice Throckmorton McLean founded AWVS in January 1940, 23 months before the United States entered the war, basing it upon the British Women's Voluntary Services, in order to help prepare the nation for the war. Most of the founders were wealthy internationalist women, and its headquarters was in New York City, making America's isolationists suspicious of AWVS. Others saw the organization as being alarmist. Despite these concerns, AWVS had about 18,000 members by the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. Eventually over 325,000 women were trained by AWVS. Doris Ryer Nixon founded the California chapter in August 1941 and became AWVS's national vice president.\n\nAWVS also encountered resistance because some men did not want women working. The group also sponsored units in African, Chinese, and Hispanic American parts of the United States. This also led to lampooning by the media. By 1944, despite hundreds of thousands of volunteers and large efforts to help win the war, AWVS was accused of being lazy, and the leaders decided to disband the organization at the end of the war. Also, they were formed for the specific purpose of supporting the war, which had been won.\n\nActresses who were AWVS members included Joan Crawford, Hattie McDaniel, Betty White and Lillian Randolph. AMVS inspired other volunteer service groups, such as \"Laguna Cottages for Seniors\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33696818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33696818", "title": "Bank secrecy", "text": "Bank secrecy\n\nBanking secrecy, alternately known as financial privacy, banking discretion, or bank safety, is a conditional agreement between a bank and its clients that all foregoing activities remain secure, confidential, and private. While some banking institutions voluntarily impose banking secrecy institutionally, others operate in regions where the practice is legally mandated and protected (e.g. off-shore financial centers). Almost all banking secrecy standards prohibit the disclosure of client information to third parties without consent or an accepted criminal complaint. Additional privacy is provided to select clients via numbered bank accounts or underground bank vaults. Most often associated with banking in Switzerland, banking secrecy is prevalent in Luxembourg, Monaco, Hong Kong, Singapore, Ireland, and the Cayman Islands, among other off-shore banking institutions.\n\nOtherwise known as bank–client confidentiality or banker–client privilege, the practice was started by Italian merchants during the 1600s near Northern Italy (a region that would become the Italian-speaking region of Switzerland). Geneva bankers established secrecy socially and through civil law in the French-speaking region during the 1700s. Swiss banking secrecy was first codified with the Banking Act of 1934 which made it a crime to disclose client information to third parties without their consent. The law, coupled with a stable Swiss currency and international neutrality, prompted large capital flight to private Swiss accounts. During the 1940s, numbered bank accounts were introduced creating an enduring principle of bank secrecy that continues to be considered one of the main aspects of private banking globally. Advances in financial cryptography (via public-key cryptography) could make it possible to use anonymous electronic money and anonymous digital bearer certificates for financial privacy and anonymous Internet banking, given enabling institutions and secure computer systems. \n\nNumbered bank accounts, used by Swiss banks and other offshore banks located in tax havens, have been accused by the international community of being a major instrument of the underground economy, facilitating tax evasion and money laundering. After Al Capone's 1931 condemnation for tax evasion, according to journalist Lucy Komisar:\n\nmobster Meyer Lansky took money from New Orleans slot machines and shifted it to accounts overseas. The Swiss secrecy law two years later assured him of G-man-proof-banking. Later, he bought a Swiss bank and for years deposited his Havana casino take in Miami accounts, then wired the funds to Switzerland via a network of shell and holding companies and offshore accounts.\n\nEconomist and Nobel Prize laureate Joseph Stiglitz, told Komisar:\n\nYou ask why, if there's an important role for a regulated banking system, do you allow a non-regulated banking system to continue? It's in the interest of some of the moneyed interests to allow this to occur. It's not an accident; it could have been shut down at any time. If you said the US, the UK, the major G7 banks will not deal with offshore bank centers that don't comply with G7 banks regulations, these banks could not exist. They only exist because they engage in transactions with standard banks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2681504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2681504", "title": "Carl Marzani", "text": "Carl Marzani\n\nCarl Aldo Marzani (4 March 1912 – 11 December 1994) was an Italian-born American leftwing political activist and publisher. He was successively a Communist Party organizer, volunteer soldier in the Spanish Civil War, United States federal intelligence official, documentary filmmaker, author, and publisher. During World War II he served in the federal intelligence agency, the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) and later the U.S. Department of State. He picked the targets for the Doolittle raid on Tokyo, which took place on April 18, 1942. Marzani served nearly three years in prison for having concealed his Communist Party USA (CPUSA) membership while in the OSS.\n\nMarzani was born in Rome, Italy. The family emigrated to the United States in 1924 and settled in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Carl entered the first grade at the age of twelve, not knowing English. He graduated from High School in 1931 with a scholarship to Williams College. There, Marzani became a socialist and joined the League for Industrial Democracy. He began writing and became the editor of the school's literary magazine. In 1935 he married his first wife, Edith Eisner, an actress whose stage name was Edith Emerson. The same year, he graduated summa cum laude from Williams College with a BA in English. Marzani thereupon moved to New York. In 1936 he received a Moody fellowship to Oxford University.\n\nWhen the Spanish Civil War broke out Marzani traveled to Spain to volunteer for the Republican army. He commanded troops the Durruti Column, a unit of the anarchist wing of the Republican forces, during late 1936 and early 1937. He soon resumed university studies and in June 1938 Marzani received a BA in Modern Greats, Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Oxford. The former anarchist supporter underwent a radical change in his ideology, joining the British Communist Party and serving as its treasurer of the South Midlands district. In the summer of 1938, Marzani and his second wife, Charlotte Pomerantz, traveled around the world, visiting India, Indochina, China, Japan, and Europe, using Communist Party contacts to meet Jawaharlal Nehru and others.\n\nAfter their world tour, the Marzanis returned to the United States and went on relief, the New Deal term for government assistance and welfare. Eventually they got government paid jobs with the Works Progress Administration (WPA) while at the same time joining the CPUSA under false identities. Marzani joined the CPUSA 23 August 1939, on the day the Nazi-Soviet Pact was signed. As a WPA instructor at New York University, as served as district Organizer for the Communist Party on the Lower East Side of New York. After the German invasion of the Soviet Union in mid 1941, Marzani became director of a popular front anti-fascist organization, and resigned from the Communist party in August 1941.\n\nIn early 1942 after the United States became involved in World War II, Marzani joined the OSS, the predecessor organization of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Marzani worked under Colonel William J. Donovan from 1942 to 1945 in the Analysis Branch. A 1943 Venona Project decryption of Soviet espionage cable traffic reported on an American code-named \"Kollega\" (\"Colleage\"), recruited by Eugene Dennis, who later became CPUSA General Secretary. The message described \"Kollega\" as working at the \"Photographic Section Pictural Devision\" (\"sic\"), interpreted by the U.S. analysts as \"probably the Pictures Division of the News and Features Bureau of the Office of War Information\" (OWI). Several authors have speculated that \"Kollega\" was Marzani, though it has been disputed. In 1945 Marzani transferred to the Department of State, where he worked as the Deputy Chief of the Presentation Division of the Office of Intelligence. Marzani handled the preparation of top secret reports.\n\nIn 1946 Marzani founded and directed Union Films, a film documentary company that had contracts with the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America and other unions to do documentaries. One film entitled \"Deadline for Action\", was released in September 1946, five weeks before Marzani resigned from the State Department. The film blamed the United States for the Cold War.\n\nIn January 1947 Marzani was indicted for defrauding the government by receiving government pay while concealing CPUSA membership. He was convicted on 22 June 1947, but nine counts were overturned on appeal, while the Supreme Court split 4-4 on a rare rehearing of the last two charges. Marzani served all but four months of a thirty-six-month sentence.\n\nIn prison, Marzani began work on a book blaming President Harry S. Truman for starting the Cold War. Caught attempting to smuggle a manuscript out of prison in 1950, he was placed in solitary confinement for seven months. The book was published in 1952 as \"We Can Be Friends: Origins of the Cold War\".\n\nUnion Films went out of business during his stay in prison. After his release in 1951, Marzani edited \"UE Steward\" for the United Electrical Workers until 1954. The same year he joined Cameron Associates and partnered with Angus Cameron to run Liberty Book Club. Liberty Book Club eventually became Marzani & Munsell which operated the Library-Prometheus Book Club. In this phase of his career Marzani was a contact for the Soviet secret police agency, the KGB, and the KGB subsidized his publishing house in the 1960s, according to allegations made in 1994 by Oleg Kalugin, a retired KGB officer.\n\nMarzani was one of the interviewees in Vivian Gornick's 1977 book, \"The romance of American communism\". Like the other interviewees, Marzani was concealed by a pseudonym; his was \"Eric Lanzetti\".\n\nIn later years, Marzani seems to have moved away from his Old Left roots. In 1972 he authored Wounded Earth, a well-respected book on environmental matters, at that time an unusual interest for a man associated with orthodox Marxism. In a 1976 article for the periodical In These Times, he spoke respectfully of the Club of Rome, a think-tank formed by a group of Italian industrialists in 1968 ; \"it is a highly sophisticated group, the most thoughtful representatives of European capitalism\". In a note appended to the article he commented \"I have only two claims to fame : that I was the first political prisoner of the Cold War and that I wrote the first revisionist history of it.\" He continued to proclaim his newfound revisionism in his 1981 book \"The Promise of Eurocommunism\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6126410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6126410", "title": "Christian views on alcohol", "text": "Christian views on alcohol\n\nChristian views on alcohol are varied. Throughout the first 1,800 years of Church history, Christians generally consumed alcoholic beverages as a common part of everyday life and used \"the fruit of the vine\" in their central rite—the Eucharist or Lord's Supper. They held that both the Bible and Christian tradition taught that alcohol is a gift from God that makes life more joyous, but that over-indulgence leading to drunkenness is sinful or at least a vice.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, some Protestant Christians moved from a position of allowing moderate use of alcohol (sometimes called \"moderationism\") to either deciding that not imbibing was wisest in the present circumstances (\"abstentionism\") or prohibiting all ordinary consumption of alcohol because it was believed to be a sin (\"prohibitionism\"). Many Protestant churches, particularly Methodists and other Evangelical groups, advocated abstentionism and were early leaders in the temperance movement of the 19th and 20th centuries. Today, all three positions exist in Christianity, but the historic position remains the most common worldwide, due to the adherence by the largest bodies of Christians, such as Anglicanism, Lutheranism, Roman Catholicism, and Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nAlcoholic beverages appear in the Bible, both in usage and in poetic expression. The Bible is ambivalent towards alcohol, considering it both a blessing from God that brings merriment and a potential danger that can be unwisely and sinfully abused. Christian views on alcohol come from what the Bible says about it, along with Jewish and Christian traditions. The biblical languages have several words for alcoholic beverages, and though prohibitionists and some abstentionists dissent, there is a broad consensus that the words did ordinarily refer to intoxicating drinks.\nThe commonness and centrality of wine in daily life in biblical times is apparent from its many positive and negative metaphorical uses throughout the Bible. Positively, for example, wine is used as a symbol of abundance, and of physical blessing. Negatively, wine is personified as a mocker and beer a brawler, and drinking a cup of strong wine to the dregs and getting drunk are sometimes presented as a symbol of God's judgment and wrath.\n\nThe Bible also speaks of wine in general terms as a bringer and concomitant of joy, particularly in the context of nourishment and feasting. Wine was commonly drunk at meals, and the Old Testament prescribed it for use in sacrificial rituals and festal celebrations. The Gospel of John recorded the first miracle of Jesus: making copious amounts of wine at the wedding feast at Cana. Jesus instituted the ritual of the Eucharist at the Last Supper during a Passover celebration, he says that the \"fruit of the vine\" is a \"New Covenant in [his] blood,\" though Christians have differed on the implications of this statement (see Eucharistic theologies contrasted). Alcohol was also used for medicinal purposes in biblical times, and it appears in that context in several passages—as an oral anesthetic, a topical cleanser and soother, and a digestive aid.\nKings and priests in the Old Testament were forbidden to partake of wine at various times. John the Baptist was a Nazirite from birth. Nazirite vows excluded not only wine, but also vinegar, grapes, and raisins. (Jesus evidently did not take such a vow during the three years of ministry depicted in the gospels, but in fact was even accused by the Pharisees of eating and drinking with sinners. St. Paul further instructs Christians regarding their duty toward immature Christians: \"It is better not to eat meat or drink wine or to do anything else that will cause your brother to fall.\" Jewish priests cannot bless a congregation after consuming alcohol.\n\nVirtually all Christian traditions hold that the Bible condemns ordinary drunkenness in many passages, and \"Easton's Bible Dictionary\" says, \"The sin of drunkenness ... must have been not uncommon in the olden times, for it is mentioned either metaphorically or literally more than seventy times in the Bible.\" Additionally, the consequences of the drunkenness of Noah and Lot \"were intended to serve as examples of the dangers and repulsiveness of intemperance.\" St. Paul later chides the Corinthians for becoming drunk on wine served at their attempted celebrations of the Eucharist.\n\nBoth the climate and land of Palestine, where most of the Bible takes place, were well-suited to growing grapes, and the wine that the vineyards produced was a valued commodity in ancient times, both for local consumption and for its value in trade. Trade with Egypt was quite extensive. Jews were a wine-drinking culture well before the foundation of Rome. Vintage wines were found in the tomb of King Scorpion in Hierakonpolis. Archaeological evidence suggests that Semitic predecessors were thought to be responsible for the vintages that were found in the tomb. Vineyards were protected from robbers and animals by walls, hedges, and manned watchtowers.\n\nThe harvest time brought much joy and play, as \"[m]en, women and children took to the vineyard, often accompanied by the sound of music and song, from late August to September to bring in the grapes.\" Some grapes were eaten immediately, while others were turned into raisins. Most of them, however, were put into the wine press where the men and boys trampled them, often to music.\n\nThe fermentation process started within six to twelve hours after pressing, and the must was usually left in the collection vat for a few days to allow the initial, \"tumultuous\" stage of fermentation to pass. The wine makers soon transferred it either into large earthenware jars, which were then sealed, or, if the wine were to be transported elsewhere, into wineskins (that is, partially tanned goat-skins, sewn up where the legs and tail had protruded but leaving the opening at the neck). After six weeks, fermentation was complete, and the wine was filtered into larger containers and either sold for consumption or stored in a cellar or cistern, lasting for three to four years. Even after a year of aging, the vintage was still called \"new wine,\" and more aged wines were preferred.\n\nSpices and scents were often added to wine in order to hide \"defects\" that arose from storage that was often not sufficient to prevent all spoiling. One might expect about 10% of any given cellar of wine to have been ruined completely, but vinegar was also created intentionally for dipping bread among other uses.\n\nThe Feast of Booths was a prescribed holiday that immediately followed the harvest and pressing of the grapes.\n\nIt is disputed whether the regular use of wine in the celebration of the Eucharist and in daily life were the virtually universal and undisputed practice in Christianity for over 1,800 years. During the 19th and early 20th century, as a general sense of prohibitionism arose, many Christians, particularly some Protestants in the United States, came to believe that the Bible prohibited alcohol or that the wisest choice in modern circumstances was for the Christian to abstain from alcohol willingly.\n\n The Hebraic opinion of wine in the time before Christ was decidedly positive: wine is part of the world God created and is thus \"necessarily inherently good,\" though excessive use is soundly condemned. The Jews emphasized joy in the goodness of creation rather than the virtue of temperance, which the Greek philosophers advocated. Wine formed part of the sacrifices made daily to God. (Lev 23:13)\n\nAs the Jews returned from the Babylonian exile (starting in 537 BC) and the events of the Old Testament drew to a close, wine was \"a common beverage for all classes and ages, including the very young; an important source of nourishment; a prominent part in the festivities of the people; a widely appreciated medicine; an essential provision for any fortress; and an important commodity,\" and it served as \"a necessary element in the life of the Hebrews.\" Wine was also used ritualistically to close the Sabbath and to celebrate weddings, circumcisions, and Passover.\n\nAlthough some abstentionists argue that wine in the Bible was almost always cut with water greatly decreasing its potency for inebriation, there is general agreement that, while Old Testament wine was sometimes mixed with various spices to enhance its flavor and stimulating properties, it was not usually diluted with water, and wine mixed with water is used as an Old Testament metaphor for corruption. Among the Greeks, however, the cutting of wine with water was a common practice used to reduce potency and improve taste. By the time of the writing of 2 Maccabees (2nd or 1st century BC), the Greeks had conquered Palestine under Alexander the Great, and the Hellenistic custom had apparently found acceptance with the Jews and was carried into Jewish rituals in New Testament times.\n\nUnder the rule of Rome, which had conquered Palestine under Pompey (see Iudaea Province), the average adult male who was a citizen drank an estimated liter (about a quarter of a gallon, or a modern-day bottle and a third - about 35 oz.) of wine per day, though beer was more common in some parts of the world.\n\nThe Apostolic Fathers make very little reference to wine. Clement of Rome (died 100) said: \"Seeing, therefore, that we are the portion of the Holy One, let us do all those things which pertain to holiness, avoiding all evil-speaking, all abominable and impure embraces, together with all drunkenness, seeking after change, all abominable lusts, detestable adultery, and execrable pride.\" The earliest references from the Church Fathers make it clear that the early Church used in the Eucharist wine - which was customarily mixed with water. The Didache, an early Christian treatise which is generally accepted to be from the late 1st century, instructs Christians to give a portion of their wine in support of a true prophet or, if they have no prophet resident with them, to the poor.\n\nClement of Alexandria (died c. 215) wrote in a chapter about drinking that he admired the young and the old who \"abstain wholly from drink,\" who adopt an austere life and \"flee as far as possible from wine, shunning it as they would the danger of fire.\" He strongly warned youth to \"flee as far as possible\" from it so as not to inflame their \"wild impulses.\" He said Christ did not teach affected by it. \"...the soul itself is wisest and best when dry.\" He also said wine is an appropriate symbol of Jesus' blood. He noted taking a little wine as medicine is acceptable - lest it make the health worse. Even those who are \"moored by reason and time\" (such that they aren't as much tempted by drunkenness after a day's work), he still encouraged to mix \"as much water as possible\" in with the wine to inhibit inebriation. For at all hours, let them keep their \"reason unwavering, their memory active, and their body unmoved and unshaken by wine.\"\n\nTertullian (died 220) insisted clergy must be sober in church, citing the Biblical non-drinking precedent: \"the Lord said to Aaron: ‘Wine and spirituous liquor shall ye not drink, thou and thy son after thee, whenever ye shall enter the tabernacle, or ascend unto the sacrificial altar; and ye shall not die.’ [Lev. 10:9] So true is it, that such as shall have ministered in the Church, being not sober, shall ‘die.’ Thus, too, in recent times He upbraids Israel: ‘And ye used to give my sanctified ones wine to drink.’ [Amos 2:12]\"\n\nSome early Christian leaders focused on the strength and attributes of wines. They taught that two \"types\" of wine should be distinguished: wine causing joyousness and that causing gluttony (intoxicating and non-intoxicating). The hermit John of Egypt (died 395) said: \"...if there is any sharp wine I excommunicate it, but I drink the good.\" Gregory of Nyssa (died 395) made the same distinction between types of wine, \"not that wine which produces drunkenness, plots against the senses, and destroys the body, but such as gladdens the heart, the wine which the Prophet recommends\"\n\nCondemnation of drunkenness had increased by the late 4th-century. Church rules against drinking entertainments are found in the Council of Laodicea (363):\n\nHowever, Basil the Great (died 379) repudiated the views of some dualistic heretics who abhorred marriage, rejected wine, and called God's creation \"polluted\" and who substituted water for wine in the Eucharist.\n\nA minority of Christians abstained totally from alcoholic beverages. Monica of Hippo (died 387) eagerly kept the strict rule of total abstinence, which her bishop Ambrose required. She had never let herself drink much at all, not even \"more than one little cup of wine, diluted according to her own temperate palate, which, out of courtesy, she would taste.\" But now she willingly drank none at all. Augustine cited a reason for her bishop's rule: \"even to those who would use it with moderation, lest thereby an occasion of excess might be given to such as were drunken.\" Ambrose of course expected leaders and deacons to practice the same rule too. He cited Paul's instructions to them about alcohol in 1 Timothy 3:2-4 and 3:8-10, and commented: \"We note how much is required of us. The minister of the Lord should abstain from wine, so that he may be upheld by the good witness not only of the faithful but also by those who are without.\" Likewise, he said: \"Let a widow, then, be temperate, pure in the first place from wine, that she may be pure from adultery. He will tempt you in vain, if wine tempts you not.\"\n\nJohn Chrysostom (died 407) said: \"they who do not drink take no thought of the drunken.\" So Chrysostom insisted deacons cannot taste wine at all in his homily on 1 Timothy 3:8-10: \"The discretion of the blessed Paul is observable. When he would exhort the Deacons to avoid excess in wine, he does not say, 'Be not drunken,' but 'not' even 'given to much wine.' A proper caution; for if those who served in the Temple did not taste wine at all, much more should not these, For wine produces disorder of mind, and where it does not cause drunkenness, it destroys the energies and relaxes the firmness of the soul.\" Of course he was aware that not all wines were intoxicating; they had opposite effects and were not all alike. His homily on 1 Timothy 5:23 shows he was not as certain heretics and immature Christians who even \"blame the fruit given them by God\" when saying there should be no wine. He emphasized the goodness of God's creation and adjured: \"Let there be no drunkenness; for wine is the work of God, but drunkenness is the work of the devil. Wine makes not drunkenness; but intemperance produces it. Do not accuse that which is the workmanship of God, but accuse the madness of a fellow mortal.\"\n\nThe virtue of temperance passed from Greek philosophy into Christian ethics and became one of the four cardinal virtues under St. Ambrose and St. Augustine.\n\nThe decline of the Roman Empire brought with it a significant drop in the production and consumption of wine in western and central Europe, but the Eastern and Western Church (particularly the Byzantines) preserved the practices of viticulture and winemaking.\n\nThe medieval monks, renowned as the finest creators of beer and wine, were allotted about five liters of beer per day, and were allowed to drink beer (but not wine) during fasts. This was justified by the Church. Bread and water that made up ale's ingredients was considered to not be a sin like that of wine. Brewing in monasteries increased and a number of modern breweries can trace their origins back to medieval monasteries. Benedict of Nursia (died c. 547), who formulated the monastic rules governing the Benedictines, seems to prefer that monks should do without wine as a daily staple, but he indicates that the monks of his day found the old regulation too burdensome. Thus he offers the concession of a quarter liter (or perhaps, a half liter) of wine per day as sufficient for nourishment, with allowance for more in special circumstances and for none as a punishment for repeated tardiness. Even so, he believes that abstinence is the best path for those who have a gift from God allowing them to restrain their bodily appetites.\n\nThomas Aquinas (died 1274), a Dominican friar and the \"Doctor Angelicus\" of the Catholic Church, says that moderation in wine is sufficient for salvation but that for certain persons perfection requires abstinence, and this was dependent upon their circumstance. With regard to the Eucharist, he says that grape wine should be used and that \"must\", unlike juice from unripe grapes, qualifies as wine because its sweetness will naturally turn it into wine. So freshly pressed must is indeed usable (preferably after filtering any impurities).\n\nDrinking among monks was not universal, however, and in 1319 Bernardo Tolomei founded the Olivetan Order, initially following a much more ascetic Rule than Benedict's. The Olivetans uprooted all their vineyards, destroyed their wine-presses, and were \"fanatical total abstainers,\" but the rule was soon relaxed.\n\nBecause the Catholic Church requires properly fermented wine in the Eucharist—with a modern exception for alcoholic or allergic priests—wherever Catholicism spread, the missionaries also brought grapevines so they could make wine and celebrate the Mass. The Catholic Church continues to celebrate a number of early and medieval saints related to alcohol—for instance, St. Adrian, patron saint of beer; St. Amand, patron saint of brewers, barkeepers, and wine merchants; St. Martin, the so-called patron saint of wine; St. Vincent, patron saint of vintners.\n\nWine has a place in the divine services of the Orthodox Church, not only in the celebration of the Divine Liturgy (Eucharist), but also at the artoklassia (blessing of bread, wine, wheat and oil during the All Night Vigil) and in the \"common cup\" of wine which is shared by the bride and groom during an Orthodox wedding service. A small amount of warm wine (zapivka) is taken by the faithful together with a piece of antidoron after receiving Holy Communion. In the Serbian Orthodox Church wine is used in the celebration of a service known as the Slava on feast days. The fasting rules of the Orthodox Church forbid the consumption of wine (and by extension, all alcoholic beverages) on most fast days throughout the year. The Orthodox celebrate St. Tryphon as the patron saint of vines and vineyard workers. \"Of course, no events have been found in the life of the saint that show a special relationship among him and vineyard or wine.\"\n\nZwingli reformed Zurich in many ways; in 1530 he reduced the closing time of taverns to 9 P.M. He warned: \"Let every youth flee from intemperance as he would from a poison ... it makes furious the body, ... it brings on premature old age.\" As the Protestant Reformation began, the Reformers from Luther and Calvin to Zwingli and Knox strongly supported the enjoyment of wine as a biblical blessing,\n\nThe monks under the Papacy refused to abstain from drinking: this astonished Calvin. He said they merely abstained from certain foods instead. He contrasted them against the dignified Nazarites and the priests who were forbidden the use of wine in the Temple. With Calvin at Geneva, \"Low taverns and drinking shops were abolished, and intemperance diminished.\" Calvin's annual salary in Geneva included seven barrels of wine.\n\nThe Lutheran Formula of Concord (1576) and the Reformed Christian confessions of faith also make explicit mention of and assume the use of wine, as does the 1689 Baptist Confession of Faith and the Methodist Articles of Religion (1784). In the Dordrecht Confession of Faith (1632), even the radical Anabaptists, who sought to expunge every trace of Roman Catholicism and to rely only on the Bible, also assumed wine was to be used, and despite their reputation as killjoys, the English Puritans were temperate partakers of \"God's good gifts,\" including wine and ale.\n\nAs the Pilgrim Fathers set out for America, they brought a considerable amount of alcohol with them for the voyage (more than 28,617 liters = 7,560 gallons, or 4 litres/person/day), and once settled, they served alcohol at \"virtually all functions, including ordinations, funerals, and regular Sabbath meals.\" M. E. Lender summarizes the \"colonists had assimilated alcohol use, based on Old World patterns, into their community lifestyles\" and that \"[l]ocal brewing began almost as soon as the colonists were safely ashore.\" Increase Mather, a prominent colonial clergyman and president of Harvard, expressed the common view in a sermon against drunkenness: \"Drink is in itself a good creature of God, and to be received with thankfulness, but the abuse of drink is from Satan; the wine is from God, but the drunkard is from the Devil.\" This Old World attitude is likewise found among the early Methodists (Charles Wesley, George Whitefield, Adam Clarke, Thomas Coke) and Baptists (John Gill and John Bunyan).\n\nQuakers founder George Fox \"vigorously protested against placing temptations to this vice in the way of any, whether old or young. In 1682, he issued an earnest address on this subject to vintners and innkeepers, exhorting them not to 'destroy them that have not power over their lusts. For, when they are overcome by strong liquors, then are they fit for all manner of wickedness.'\". From their early history, the Friends (Quakers) came to be a strong influence for the Temperance cause. Many Quakers from early days were involved in brewing or wine importation. By the 1820s and 30s, Quakers were in agreement with the dominant moral philosophy of this era in regarding distilling spirits as sinful while accepting beer brewing. Several prominent Quaker families in this era were involved in large London breweries.\n\nAlthough Methodist founder John Wesley warned: \"You see the wine when it sparkles in the cup, and are going to drink of it. I tell you there is poison in it! and, therefore, beg you to throw it away\", other material shows that society had no issue with alcohol. In an early letter to Susanna, he simply dismissed those who thought she was unusual and too restrictive to have but one glass of wine. In a series of letters dated to 1789, he noted that experiments prove \"ale without hops will keep just as well as the other\" - thus he directly contradicted claims by vested interests - whom he likened to the pretentious silversmiths who stirred up violence: 'Sir, by this means we get our wealth.' (Acts 19:25). He rejected their claims of wholesomeness for this poisonous herb. Wesley, beyond many in his era, deplored distilled beverages such as brandy and whisky when they were used non-medicinally, and he said the many distillers who sold indiscriminately to anyone were nothing more than poisoners and murderers accursed by God. In 1744, the directions the Wesleys gave to the Methodist band societies (small groups of Methodists intended to support living a holy life) required them \"to taste no spirituous [i.e., distilled] liquor ... unless prescribed by a physician.\"\n\nEarly advocacy for abstentionism in Methodism arose in America. At the 1780 Methodist Episcopal Church Conference in Baltimore, the churchmen opposed distilled liquors and determined to \"disown those who would not renounce the practice\" of producing it. In opposing liquors, the American Methodists anticipated the first wave of the temperance movement that would follow. They expanded their membership rule regarding alcohol to include other alcoholic beverages over the next century. Despite pressure from interested parties to relax rules of all kinds, the American Methodists afterwards reverted to Wesley's—namely, to avoid \"[d]runkenness, buying or selling spirituous [i.e., distilled] liquors, or drinking them, unless in cases of extreme necessity\".\n\nBishops in America Thomas Coke and Francis Asbury commented that frequent fasting and abstinence are \"highly necessary for the divine life.\" Asbury strongly urged citizens to lay aside the use of alcohol. Likewise, the listed duties for Methodist preachers indicate that they should choose water as their common drink and use wine only in medicinal or sacramental contexts, Methodist Bible commentator Adam Clarke indicated the fruit of the vine at the Last Supper was pure and incomparable to what some think of as wine today.\n\nWesley's Articles of Religion, adopted by the Methodist Episcopal Church (a precursor of the United Methodist Church) in 1784, rejected the doctrine of transubstantiation of elements in the Lord's supper (Article XVIII), and said the use of both bread and the cup together extends to all the people (Article XIX), not only one element for laymen and two for ministers as in the Catholic practice of the time.\n\nAdam Clarke explained 1 Cor. 11:21-22: \"One was hungry, and the other was drunken, μεθυει, was filled to the full; this is the sense of the word in many places of Scripture.\" Likewise, Coke and Asbury commented on it saying Paul's objection here concerned the Corinthians (including laymen) and \"... their both \"eating\" and \"drinking\" most intemperately\" thereby despising the Church of God and shaming those who have nothing.\n\nLater, British Methodists, in particular the Primitive Methodists, took a leading role in the temperance movement of the 19th and early 20th centuries. Methodists saw alcoholic beverages, and alcoholism, as the root of many social ills and tried to persuade people to abstain from these. Temperance appealed strongly to the Methodist doctrines of sanctification and perfection.\n\nThis continues to be reflected in the teaching of Methodist denominations today. For example, ¶91 of the 2014 \"Discipline\" of the Allegheny Wesleyan Methodist Connection states:\n\nIn the midst of the social upheaval accompanying the American Revolution and urbanization induced by the Industrial Revolution, drunkenness was on the rise and was blamed as a major contributor to the increasing poverty, unemployment, and crime. Yet the temperate sentiments of the Methodists were shared only by a few others, until the publication of a tract by eminent physician and patriot Benjamin Rush, who argued against the use of \"ardent spirits\" (i.e., distilled alcohol), introduced the notion of addiction, and prescribed abstinence as the only cure. Some prominent preachers like Lyman Beecher picked up on Rush's theme and galvanized the temperance movement to action. Though losing influence during the American Civil War, afterward the movement experienced its second wave, spearheaded by the Women's Christian Temperance Union, and it was so successful in achieving its goals that Catherine Booth, co-founder of the Salvation Army, could observe in 1879 that in America \"almost every [Protestant] Christian minister has become an abstainer.\" The movement saw the passage of anti-drinking laws in several states and peaked in its political power in 1919 with the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which established prohibition as the law of the entire country but which was repealed in 1933 by the Twenty-first Amendment.\n\nInitially the vast majority of the temperance movement had opposed only distilled alcohol, which they saw as making drunkenness inexpensive and easy, and espoused moderation and temperance in the use of other alcoholic beverages. Fueled in part by the Second Great Awakening, which emphasized personal holiness and sometimes perfectionism, the temperance message changed to the outright elimination of alcohol.\nConsequently, alcohol itself became an evil in the eyes of many (but not all) abstainers and so had to be expunged from Christian practice—especially from the holy rite of the Lord's Supper. The use of a grape-based drink other than wine for the Lord's Supper took a strong hold in many churches, including American Protestantism, though some churches had detractors who thought wine was to be given strong preference in the rite. Some denominational statements required \"unfermented wine\" for the Lord's Supper. For example, the Wesleyan Methodists (since founded 1843, some fifty years after Wesley's death) required \"unfermented wine\".\n\nSince grape juice begins naturally fermenting upon pressing, opponents of wine utilized alternate methods of creating their ritual drink such as reconstituting concentrated grape juice, boiling raisins, or adding preservatives to delay fermenting and souring. In 1869, Thomas Bramwell Welch, an ordained Wesleyan Methodist minister, discovered a way to pasteurize grape juice, and he used his particular preservation method to prepare juice for the Lord's Supper at a Methodist Episcopal church.\n\nFrom 1838 to 1845, Father Mathew, the Irish apostle of temperance, administered an abstinence pledge to some three to four million of his countrymen, though his efforts had little permanent effect there, and then starting in 1849 to more than 500,000 Americans, chiefly his fellow Irish Catholics, who formed local temperance societies but whose influence was limited. In 1872 the Catholic Total Abstinence Union of America united these societies and by 1913 reached some 90,000 members including the juvenile, women's, and priestly contingents. The Union pursued a platform of \"moral suasion\" rather than legislative prohibition and received two papal commendations. In 1878 Pope Leo XIII praised the Union's determination to abolish drunkenness and \"all incentive to it,\" and in 1906 Pope Pius X lauded its efforts in \"persuading men to practise one of the principal Christian virtues — temperance.\" By the time the 18th Amendment was up for consideration, however, Archbishop Messmer of Milwaukee denounced the prohibition movement as being founded on an \"absolutely false principle\" and as trying to undermine the Church's \"most sacred mystery,\" the Eucharist, and he forbade pastors in his archdiocese from assisting the movement but suggested they preach on moderation. In the end, Catholicism was largely unaffected in doctrine and practice by the movements to eliminate alcohol from church life, and it retained its emphasis on the virtue of temperance in all things.\n\nSimilarly, while the Lutheran and Anglican churches felt some pressure, they did not alter their moderationist position. Even the English denominational temperance societies refused to make abstention a requirement for membership, and their position remained moderationist in character. It was non-Lutheran Protestantism from which the Temperance movement drew its greatest strength. Many Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians, and other Protestants signed on to the prohibitionist platform.\n\n\"Despite the Scottish heritage of whisky drinking, Presbyterians were strong supporters of temperance and prohibition. They believed (with some justification) that ‘the demon drink’ was destructive of family life. The church was a stronghold of the temperance organisation the Band of Hope... which encouraged youth... to sign a pledge to abstain from alcohol. Teetotallers also succeeded in persuading the church to use grape juice rather than fortified wine in the sacrament of communion.\"\n\nThe 1881 assembly of the United Presbyterian Church of North America said \"the common traffic in, and the moderate use of intoxicants as a beverage are the source of all these evils.\" In 1843, the Presbyterian Church in the United States of America's general assembly (generally considered part of the conservative Old School) considered and narrowly rejected making the selling of alcoholic beverages grounds for excommunication from the church.\n\nThe legislative and social effects resulting from the temperance movement peaked in the early 20th century and began to decline afterward. The effects on church practice were primarily a phenomenon in American Protestantism and to a lesser extent in the British Isles, the Nordic countries, and a few other places. The practice of the Protestant churches were slower to revert, and some bodies, though now rejecting their formerly prohibitionist platform, still retain vestiges of it such as using grape juice alone or beside wine in the Lord's supper.\n\nToday, the views on alcohol in Christianity can be divided into moderationism, abstentionism, and prohibitionism. Abstentionists and prohibitionists are sometimes lumped together as \"teetotalers\" (compare list of teetotalers), sharing some similar arguments. However, prohibitionists abstain from alcohol as a matter of law (that is, they believe God requires abstinence in all ordinary circumstances), while abstentionists abstain as a matter of prudence (that is, they believe total abstinence is the wisest and most loving way to live in the present circumstances).\n\nSome groups of Christians fall entirely or virtually entirely into one of these categories, while others are divided between them. Fifty-two percent of Evangelical leaders around the world say drinking alcohol is incompatible with being a good Evangelical. Even now nominally \"Christian\" countries still have 42% who say it is incompatible. Evangelicals in Asia, Africa, and also in Muslim-majority countries are decidedly against drinking.\n\nThe moderationist position is held by Roman Catholics and Eastern Orthodox, and within Protestantism, it is accepted by Anglicans, Lutherans and many Reformed churches. Moderationism is also accepted by Jehovah's Witnesses.\n\nModerationism argues that, according to the biblical and traditional witness, (1) alcohol is a good gift of God that is rightly used in the Eucharist and for making the heart merry, and (2) while its dangers are real, it may be used wisely and moderately rather than being shunned or prohibited because of potential abuse. Moderationism holds that temperance (that is, moderation or self-control) in all of one's behavior, not abstinence, is the biblical norm.\n\nOn the first point, moderationists reflect the Hebrew mindset that all creation is good. The ancient Canons of the Apostles, which became part of Canon Law in the eastern and western Churches, likewise allows Church leaders and laity to abstain from wine for mortification of the flesh but requires that they not \"abominate\" or detest it, which attitude \"blasphemously abuses\" the good creation. Going further, John Calvin says that \"it is lawful to use wine not only in cases of necessity, but also thereby to make us merry,\" and in his Genevan Catechism, he answers that wine is appropriate in the Lord's Supper because \"by wine the hearts of men are gladdened, their strength recruited, and the whole man strengthened, so by the blood of our Lord the same benefits are received by our souls.\"\n\nOn the second point, Martin Luther employs a \"reductio ad absurdum\" to counter the idea that abuse should be met with disuse: \"[W]e must not ... reject [or] condemn anything because it is abused ... [W]ine and women bring many a man to misery and make a fool of him (Ecclus. ; ); so [we would need to] kill all the women and pour out all the wine.\" In dealing with drunkenness at the love feast in Corinth, St. Paul does not require total abstinence from drink but love for one another that would express itself in moderate, selfless behavior. However, moderationists approve of voluntary abstinence in several cases, such as for a person who finds it too difficult to drink in moderation and for the benefit of the \"weaker brother,\" who would err because of a stronger Christian exercising his or her liberty to drink.\n\nWhile all moderationists approve of using (fermented) wine in the Eucharist in principle (Catholics, the Orthodox, and Anglicans require it), because of prohibitionist heritage and a sensitivity to those who wish to abstain from alcohol, many offer either grape juice or both wine and juice at their celebrations of the Lord's Supper. Some Christians mix some water with the wine following ancient tradition, and some attach a mystical significance to this practice.\n\nIn addition to lexical and historical differences, moderationism holds that prohibitionism errs by confusing the Christian virtues of temperance and moderation with abstinence and prohibition and by locating the evil in the object that is abused rather than in the heart and deeds of the abuser. Moreover, moderationists suggest that the prohibitionist and abstentionist positions denigrate God's creation and his good gifts and deny that it is not what goes into a man that makes him evil but what comes out (that is, what he says and does). The Bible never uses the word 'wine' of communion. Yet moderationists hold that in banishing wine from communion and dinner tables, prohibitionists and abstentionists go against the 'witness of the Bible' and the church throughout the ages and implicitly adopt a Pharisaical moralism that is at odds with what moderationists consider the right approach to biblical ethics and the doctrines of sin and sanctification.\n\nThe abstentionist position is held by many Baptists, Pentecostals, Nazarene, Methodists, and other evangelical and Protestant groups including the Salvation Army. Prominent proponents of abstentionism include Billy Graham, John F. MacArthur, R. Albert Mohler, Jr., and John Piper.\n\nAbstentionists believe that although alcohol consumption is not inherently sinful or necessarily to be avoided in all circumstances, it is generally not the wisest or most prudent choice. While most abstentionists do not require abstinence from alcohol for membership in their churches, they do often require it for leadership positions.\n\nSome reasons commonly given for voluntary abstention are:\n\nAdditionally, abstentionists argue that while drinking may have been more acceptable in ancient times (for instance, using wine to purify polluted drinking water), modern circumstances have changed the nature of a Christian's responsibility in this area. First, some abstentionists argue that wine in biblical times was weaker and diluted with water such that drunkenness was less common, though few non-abstentionists accept this claim as wholly accurate or conclusive. Also, the invention of more efficient distillation techniques has led to more potent and cheaper alcohol, which in turn has lessened the economic barrier to drinking to excess compared to biblical times.\n\nOn historical and lexical grounds, many abstentionists reject the argument of prohibitionists that wine in the Bible was not alcoholic and that imbibing is nearly always a sin. Piper summarizes the abstentionist position on this point:\n\nAbstentionists also reject the position of moderationists that in many circumstances Christians should feel free to drink for pleasure because abstentionists see alcohol as inherently too dangerous and not \"a necessity for life or good living,\" with some even going so far as to say, \"Moderation is the cause of the liquor problem.\"\n\nThe prohibitionist position has experienced a general reduction of support since the days of prohibitionism as a movement, with many of its advocates becoming abstentionists instead. Groups adopting prohibitionist positions include the Southern Baptist Convention and Seventh-day Adventists. The former group resolved that their \"churches be urged to give their full moral support to the prohibition cause, and to give a more liberal financial support to dry organizations which stand for the united action of our people against the liquor traffic.\" Charles Spurgeon: \"I wish the man who made the law to open them had to keep all the families that they have brought to ruin. Beer shops are the enemies of the home; therefore, the sooner their licenses are taken away, the better.\" \n\nIn 1990, the Salvation Army re-affirms: \"It would be inconsistent for any Salvationist to drink while at the same time seeking to help others to give it up.\"\nDavid Wilkerson founder of Teen Challenge said similar things to The Assembly of God: \"a little alcohol is too much since drinking in moderation provides Satan an opening to cruel deception.\" Billy Sunday: \"After all is said that can be said on the liquor traffic, its influence is degrading on the individual, the family, politics and business and upon everything that you touch in this old world.\"\n\nProhibitionists such as Stephen Reynolds and Jack Van Impe hold that the Bible forbids partaking of alcohol altogether, with some arguing that the alleged medicinal use of wine in 1 Timothy 5:23 is a reference to unfermented grape juice. They argue that the words for alcoholic beverages in the Bible can also refer to non-alcoholic versions such as unfermented grape juice, and for this reason the context must determine which meaning is required. In passages where the beverages are viewed negatively, prohibitionists understand them to mean the alcoholic drinks, and where they are viewed positively, they understand them to mean non-alcoholic drinks. Prohibitionists also accuse most Bible translators of exhibiting a bias in favor of alcohol that obscures the meaning of the original texts.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the largest body of the Latter Day Saint movement, also teaches that \"God has spoken against the use of ... [a]lcohol.\" They base this teaching on the Word of Wisdom, a section in Doctrine and Covenants which is part of the Mormon canon, that recommends against the ordinary use of alcohol, though it makes an exception for the use of wine in the sacrament, a similar rite to the Eucharist. However, the Church now uses water instead of wine in the sacrament, and since 1851, the Word of Wisdom's advice for wise living has been considered \"a binding commandment on all Church members.\"\n\nMany Prohibitionist Christians have claimed that the wine Jesus created in John 2 and drank at the Last Supper were non-alcoholic grape juice; however, the Greek word \"oinos\", used in the account of the wedding feast in Cana, is also used to describe alcohol in Ephesians 5:18.\n\n"}
{"id": "29601958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29601958", "title": "Ciarraige Airtig", "text": "Ciarraige Airtig\n\nThe Ciarraige Airtech were a population-group found in medieval Ireland.\n\nThe Ciarraige Airtech were one of three branches of the Ciarraige located close to each other in central Connacht. They were the Ciarraige Aí, Ciarraige Airtig and Ciarraighe Locha na nÁirne, along the east County Mayo/west-central County Roscommon area. They were thought to have once formed a single over-kingdom which was broken up by the rise of the Uí Briúin in the 8th and 9th centuries. \n\nIn 2000, Nollaig Ó Muraíle wrote of them as follows (p.168):\n\n\"The most obscure of the (supposed) three branches of Ciarraige Connacht were those of Airtech who are mentioned in the Patrician documents, in the Lebor Gabála Érenn, in the saints' genealogies, and, for the last time, in the early-fourteenth-century annals. Their territory - variously referred to as Crích Airtig and Mag nAirtig - was centred on the parish of Tibohine, baony of Frenchpark (around the present village of Loughglynn), but covered parts of adjacent parishes (including Castlemmore, Kilcolman and Kilnamanagh) in north-west roscommon. Overall, their impact on Connacht history must be adjudged very slight.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7396973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7396973", "title": "City Learning Centre", "text": "City Learning Centre\n\nA City Learning Centre is a facility in the United Kingdom which provides ICT-based learning opportunities for the pupils at the host school, for pupils at a network of surrounding schools and for the wider community. The centre aims to enhance learning across the whole curriculum by providing courses and opportunities for individual pupils from schools around the area. The multimedia establishments cater to any age and level of ICT understanding, and some offer conferencing facilities which are pre-bookable by local businesses.\n\nThe number of established City Learning Centres in England exceeded 100, and steadily grew since their introduction in 2001. Many City Learning Centres are established on the same ground as an existing school (for example, South Sefton City Learning Centre was established on the grounds of Savio High School).\n\nCity Learning Centres were heavily funded by the British Government through the Excellence in Cities programme to ensure they were able to cater for the requirements of local schools and businesses within the area, with an emphasis on enhancing opportunities in disadvantaged areas. Up to £1.2 million of Revenue Funding per CLC was available for capital and initial start-up costs plus recurring funding of £220,000 per annum.\n\nAfter their first year of operation, an additional £150,000 was available for Capital Redevelopment Funding to ensure their technology remains at the forefront. However, unlike revenue funding, it was only released from the first full financial year that a CLC was fully operational, requiring that a Centre must be open before 31 March in order to trigger funding in the following financial year. This however was limited to building and structure work, computer hardware and software, but not the funding required for subscriptions for such software. It should not be used to pay for consumables, staffing costs or other non-CLC purposes. In addition, this money must be spent on the Centre and not simply shared out amongst its partner schools, unless it is to improve connectivity between a Centre and partner schools.\n\nFunding for CLCs was completely abolished when the coalition government came into power in May 2010. The majority of CLCs have closed leaving some still operating. City Learning Centre's now generate income directly from schools, local authorities, others work with businesses or a combination of all of these.\n\nThe Centres are there for schools to use and to come up with interesting, innovative and replicable lesson plans, extra curricular activities and to discover new ways of using technology in the classroom. An important reason for using the Centres, as well as spreading technology more widely, is that it encourages schools to work more co-operatively with each other, sharing ideas as they share resources. It means the Centres are able to be equipped with more specialist technology that would otherwise be cost-effective for individual schools, and will be a 'draw' for pupils and the community as a place to experience the latest technology, as well as meet and exchange ideas. In cases where transport is difficult (or for times when getting to the Centre isn't practical), schools will be able to access the Centres' resources remotely through a 'hub and spoke' arrangement.\n\nCity Learning Centres offer a wide range of activities and facilities to the pupils in the surrounding area. Some of the facilities or available activities include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2359082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2359082", "title": "Crime in Washington, D.C.", "text": "Crime in Washington, D.C.\n\nCrime in Washington, D.C., is directly related to the city's demographics, geography, and unique criminal justice system. The District's population reached a peak of 802,178 in 1950. Shortly thereafter, the city began losing residents, and by 1980 Washington had lost one-quarter of its population. The population loss to the suburbs also created a new demographic pattern, which divided affluent neighborhoods west of Rock Creek Park from more crime-ridden and blighted areas to the east.\n\nDespite being the headquarters of multiple federal law enforcement agencies, such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the nationwide crack epidemic of the 1980s and 1990s greatly affected the city and led to large increases in crime. The number of homicides in Washington peaked in 1991 at 482, a rate of 80.6 homicides per 100,000 residents, and the city eventually became known as the \"murder capital\" of the United States.\n\nThe crime rate started to fall in the mid-1990s as the crack cocaine epidemic gave way to economic revitalization projects and as incarceration rates increased. Gentrification efforts have also started to transform the demographics of distressed neighborhoods, recently leading to the first rise in the District's population in 60 years.\n\nBy the mid-2000s, crime rates in Washington dropped to their lowest levels in over 20 years. As in many major cities, crime remains a significant factor in D.C., especially in the city's northwestern neighborhoods, which tend to be more affluent, draw more tourists, and have more vibrant nightlife. Violent crime also remains a problem in Ward 8, which has the city's highest concentration of poverty.\n\nAccording to Uniform Crime Report statistics compiled by the FBI, there were 1,330.2 violent crimes per 100,000 people reported in the District of Columbia in 2010. There were also 4,778.9 property crimes per 100,000 reported during the same period.\n\nThe average violent crime rate in the District of Columbia from 1960 through 1999 was 1,722 violent crimes per 100,000 population, and violent crime, since peaking in the mid 1990s, decreased by 50% in the 1995–2010 period (with property crime having decreased by 49.8% during the same period).\nHowever, violent crime is still more than three times the national average of 403.6 reported offenses per 100,000 people in 2010.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Washington, D.C., was known as the \"murder capital\", experiencing 482 homicides in 1991. The elevated crime levels were associated with the introduction of crack cocaine during the late 1980s and early 1990s. The crack was brought into Washington, D.C. by Colombian cartels and sold in drug markets such as \"The Strip\" (the largest in the city) located a few blocks north of the United States Capitol. A quarter of juveniles with criminal charges in 1988 tested positive for drugs.\n\nAfter the 1991 peak there was a downward trend through to the late 1990s. In 2000, 242 homicides occurred, and the downward trend continued in the 2000s. In 2012, Washington, D.C. had only 92 homicides in 91 separate incidents, the lowest annual tally since 1963. The Metropolitan Police Department's official tally is 88 homicides, but that number does not include four deaths that were ruled self-defense or justifiable homicide by citizen. The cause of death listed on the four case records is homicide and MPD includes those cases in tallying homicide case closures at the end of the year.\nAs Washington neighborhoods undergo gentrification, crime has been displaced further east. Crime in neighboring Prince George's County, Maryland, initially experienced an increase, but has recently witnessed steep declines as poorer residents moved out of the city into the nearby suburbs. Crime has declined both in the District and the suburbs in recent years. There was an average of 11 robberies each day across the District of Columbia in 2006 which is far below the levels experienced in the 1990s.\n\nIn 2008, 42 crimes in the District were characterized as hate crimes; over 70% of the reports classified as hate crimes were a result of a bias against the victim's perceived sexual orientation. Those findings continue the trend from previous years, although the total number of hate crimes is down from 57 in 2006, and 48 in 2005. By 2012, the number of hate crimes reported were 81, and dropped to 70 in 2013.\n\nLaw enforcement in Washington, D.C. is complicated by a network of overlapping federal and city agencies. The primary agency responsible for law enforcement in the District of Columbia is the Metropolitan Police Department (MPD). The MPD is a city agency headed by the Chief of Police, currently Peter Newsham, who is appointed by the mayor. The Metropolitan Police has 3,800 sworn officers and operates much like other municipal police departments elsewhere in the country. However, given the unique status of Washington as the United States capital, the MPD is adept at providing crowd control and security at large events. Despite its name, the MPD only serves within the boundaries of the District of Columbia and does not have jurisdiction within the surrounding Washington Metropolitan Area.\n\nSeveral other local police agencies have jurisdiction within the District of Columbia, including: the District of Columbia Protective Services Police Department, which is responsible for all properties owned or leased by the city government; and the Metro Transit Police Department, which has jurisdiction within Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority stations, trains, and buses. Alongside local law enforcement agencies, nearly every federal law enforcement agency has jurisdiction within Washington, D.C. The most visible federal police agencies are the United States Park Police, which is responsible for all parkland in the city, the United States Secret Service, and the United States Capitol Police.\n\nA number of special initiatives undertaken by the Metropolitan Police Department in order to combat violent crime have gained particular public attention. Most notable are the city's use of \"crime emergencies\", which when declared by the Chief of Police, allow the city to temporarily suspend officer schedules and assign additional overtime in order to increase police presence.\n\nDespite the fact that crime emergencies do appear to reduce crime when enacted, critics fault the city for relying on such temporary stop-gap measures. In 2003, the city launched its Gang Intervention Project to combat the then-recent upward trend in Latino gang violence, primarily in the Columbia Heights and Shaw neighborhoods. The initiative was claimed a success when gang-related violence declined almost 90% from the start of the program to November 2006.\n\nThe most controversial program designed to deter crime was a system of police checkpoints in neighborhoods particularly affected by violence. The checkpoints, in place from April 2008 through June 2008, were used in the Trinidad neighborhood of Northeast Washington. The program operated by stopping cars entering a police-designated area; officers then turned away those individuals who did not live or have business in the neighborhood. Despite protests by residents, the MPD claimed the checkpoints to be a successful tool in preventing violent crime. However, in July 2010, a federal appeals court found that the checkpoints violated residents' constitutional rights. The police had no plans to continue to use the practice—with declining crime rates—but D.C. Attorney General Peter Nickles said that officers would work to find a \"more creative way to deal with very unusual circumstances that is consistent with the Fourth Amendment.\"\n\nIn 2012, the first female Chief of Police of DC, Cathy L. Lanier, was hired by Mayor Vincent Gray. Between 2014 and 2016, there was a spike in homicides and other violent crimes; with a 54% increase in homicides between 2014 and 2015. In 2016, Chief Lanier resigned, mentioning her frustration with the problem of the \"revolving door for offenders\" contributing to high rates of violent crimes in the District.\n\nThe Superior Court of the District of Columbia hears all local civil and criminal cases in Washington, D.C. Despite the fact that the court is technically a branch of the D.C. government, the Superior Court is funded and operated by the U.S. federal government. In addition, the court's judges are appointed by the President of the United States. The D.C. Superior Court should not, however, be confused with the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, which only hears cases dealing with violations of federal law.\n\nThe District of Columbia has a complicated criminal prosecution system. The Attorney General of the District of Columbia only has jurisdiction in civil proceedings and prosecuting minor offenses such as low-level misdemeanors and traffic violations. All federal offenses, local felony charges (i.e. serious crimes such as robbery, murder, aggravated assault, grand theft, and arson), and most local misdemeanors are prosecuted by the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia. United States Attorneys are appointed by the President and overseen by the United States Department of Justice. This differs from elsewhere in the country where 93% of local prosecutors are directly elected and the remainder are appointed by local elected officials.\n\nThe fact that the U.S. Attorneys in the District of Columbia are neither elected nor appointed by city officials leads to criticism that the prosecutors are not responsive to the needs of local residents. For example, new felony prosecutions by the U.S. Attorneys in the District of Columbia have fallen 34%; from 8,016 in 2003 to 5,256 in 2007. The number of resolved felony cases has also fallen by nearly half; from 10,206 in 2003 to 5,534 in 2007. In contrast, the number of misdemeanor and civil cases prosecuted and resolved by the D.C. Attorney General's office has remained constant over the same time period. The U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia cites the drop in prosecutions to a 14% cut in its budget. The cuts have caused the office to decrease the number of federal prosecutors from a high of 110 in 2003 to 76 in 2007.\n\nEfforts to create the position of D.C. district attorney regained attention in 2008. The D.C. district attorney would be elected and have jurisdiction over all local criminal cases, thereby streamlining prosecution and making the justice system more accountable to residents. However, progress to institute such an office has stalled in Congress.\n\nUnder the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, prisoners were put under custody of the Federal Bureau of Prisons; the Lorton Correctional Complex, a prison operated by the District government in Lorton, Virginia, was closed in 2000. Offenders serving short sentences for misdemeanors serve time either at the Central Detention Facility or the Correctional Treatment Facility, both run by the District of Columbia Department of Corrections.\n\nApproximately 6,500 prisoners convicted in the District of Columbia are sent to Bureau of Prison facilities around the United States, including over a 1,000 sent to West Virginia, and another 1,000 to North Carolina. The Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency was established, under the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act, to oversee probationers and parolees, and provide pretrial services. The functions were previously handled by the D.C. Superior Court and the D.C. Pretrial Services Agency.\n\nAs of 2007 almost 7,000 prisoners sentenced in District of Columbia courts had been imprisoned in 75 prisons in 33 states. As of 2010 5,700 prisoners sentenced in DC courts had been imprisoned in federal-owned or leased properties in 33 states. As of 2010 felons sentenced under D.C. law altogether made up almost 8,000 prisoners, or about 6% of the total BOP population, and they resided in 90 facilities. As of 2013 about 20% of the DC-sentenced prisoners were incarcerated over from Washington, D.C.\n\nRivers Correctional Institution, a private prison in North Carolina, was purpose-built to house D.C. inmates, and as of 2007 about 66% of the prisoners were DC-sentenced inmates. In 2009 the prison housed about 800-900 prisoners sentenced under DC law. As of 2013 up to about 33% of the prisoners at United States Penitentiary, Big Sandy in Kentucky had been convicted of DC crimes.\n\nWashington, D.C., has enacted a number of strict gun-restriction laws. The Firearms Control Regulations Act of 1975 prohibited residents from owning handguns, excluding those registered prior to February 5, 1977; however, this law was subsequently overturned in March 2007 by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in \"Parker v. District of Columbia\".\n\nThe ruling was upheld in June 2008 by the Supreme Court of the United States in \"District of Columbia v. Heller\". Both courts held that the city's handgun ban violated the right to keep and bear arms as protected under the Second Amendment. However, the ruling does not strike down all forms of gun control; laws requiring firearm registration remain in place, as does the city's assault weapon ban.\n\nSince then, D.C. has further reduced gun control in several steps in 2009, 2012, 2015, 2016 and 2017. See Gun laws in the District of Columbia. The cost of permitting process was reduced. Application for re-registration was removed, \"shall issue\" concealed carry licensing was ordered by the Federal courts. Ammunition control laws were reduced.\n\nCritics, citing numerous statistics, have questioned the efficiency of these restrictions. The combination in Washington of strict gun-restriction laws and high levels of gun violence is sometimes used to criticize gun-restriction laws in general as ineffective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7240449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7240449", "title": "Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006", "text": "Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006\n\nThe Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006 (SI 2006/2408) is a piece of secondary legislation in the United Kingdom, which prohibits employers unreasonably discriminating against employees on grounds of age. It came into force on 1 October 2006. It is now superseded by the Equality Act 2010.\n\nThe Regulations follow a very similar structure to existing legislation concerning sex, race, and religion. They provide a broad justification defence and a wide range of exceptions which have been criticised for undermining the concept of discrimination law by providing too many compromises on what would otherwise be unlawful.\n\nSignificant issues addressed by the legislation include the provision of a national default retirement age set at 65 (to be retained for at least 5 years) and the ability for employees to request work beyond the retirement age following procedure in schedule 6 of the Regulations.\n\nA legal challenge to the Default Retirement Age (\"DRA\") brought by the charity Age UK failed in September 2009, with the judge finding that the Regulations did not breach the European Union's Equal Treatment at Work Directive.\n\nThe Coalition government announced in July 2010 that it intends to eliminate the DRA from October 2011. The finalised draft regulations were published on 1 March 2010 and the DRA will be abolished so that no forced retirements will be able to take place after 5 October 2012 (at the very latest).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32562129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32562129", "title": "Eton language", "text": "Eton language\n\nEton, or Ìtón, is a Bantu language spoken by the Eton people of Cameroon.\n\nIt is mutually intelligible with Ewondo, a fact which may have delayed its study for some time.\n\nEton speakers inhabit the Lekié department of the Centre Region of Cameroon, an area north of the capital Yaoundé bounded in the north by the Sanaga River.\n\nEthnologue cites four dialects of Eton, but its speakers generally distinguish two, a northern and a southern dialect, the latter of which is closer to the Ewondo language.\n\nThe Mengisa people have largely switched to Eton. A small number continue to speak their ancestral language, Leti. It is not clear if the ISO code for \"Mengisa\" refers to Eton or Leti; \"Ethnologue\" classifies Mengisa with Eton, but the code is likely based on Guthrie, who classified it with Leti.\n\nEton is a tone language. It makes use of three tones (low, high and dissimilating high) and floating tones.\n\nEton is an SVO language. As is common in Bantu, Eton has a noun class system. There are twelve classes and the class of a noun determines which agreement prefix it receives and triggers. For instance, verbs agree with the subject's noun class.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38983622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38983622", "title": "Gender inequality in Honduras", "text": "Gender inequality in Honduras\n\nGender inequality in Honduras has been less marked since the 1980s with a better quality of life for many, especially women. In the 2011 Human Development Report, Honduras placed 121st out of 187 countries. Honduras is ranked 101 of 159 countries in 2015 for its Gender Inequality Human Development Index (.461) with an overall value of 0.511 out of 1 in terms of HDI (with 1 representing perfect inequality) \n\nMany of the inequalities stem from longstanding cultural norms and traditions that have been in place for hundreds or thousands of years revolving around the tasks and roles played in the agricultural society of old gender roles in Mesoamerica.\n\nTraditional gender roles have men dominating the public sphere and women occupying the domestic sphere: women were not allowed to participate in what were traditional male positions in society until recently. The male is expected to be the head of the household and the main provider. This also gives men the right to make important decisions over women such as when they may procreate, how many children women may have, when and how many daily chores shall be done, if they may receive education, and whether or not they may enter the workforce. \n\nHonduran men are expected to father many children, and there is little social stigma attached to men's premarital and extramarital sexual relationships. Although women who do not conform to what is socially deemed as appropriate behaviour are often subjected to violence, such violence is also targeted towards men.\n\nIn 2011, Honduras ranked 105th out of 146 countries on the United Nations Development Program's (UNDP) Gender Inequality Index (GII). This is a multidimensional index that measures and reports a country's level of gender inequality. It is represented in a single number which helps represent where countries stand on gender issues. This number is based on the average of statistics in three categories: reproductive health, empowerment, and economic activity. These statistics can give a general idea of how a country fares on gender issues relative to all 146 countries in the study, and also against other countries from the same region.\n\nThe overall comparison between the HDI and the gender inequality index would suggest that Honduras is performing better and progressing faster on gender issues than on general welfare. These changes have come as a result of social and political shifts in opinion on the role of women in society. Since the 1980s the overall value of Honduras' HDI has averaged an increase of 1.6% annually, which is an impressive improvement that has brought them over a 30% positive increase to date.\n\nReproductive health is usually gauged in terms of the maternal mortality rate, which is the number of mothers per 100,000 who die from pregnancy-related causes. In 2015, Honduras had a rate of \n129 deaths/100,000 live births. Many of these deaths come as a result of unregulated and illegally performed abortions which leave the women at great risk for infection. Another indicator is the adolescent fertility rate, which is the number of live births per 1,000 adolescent mothers (ages 13–18). \n\nFor every 1,000 births in Honduras, 93.3, or almost 10 percent, were to adolescent mothers. This high rate is a negative indicator not only for the women who are having children at such a young age, but also for the community as a whole. Women who have children as adolescents put their children in a situation where they are much more likely to be raised in poverty, due to the fact that the secondary education dropout rate is significantly higher among adolescents who have children.\n\nThe GII also shows that as of 2011 only 65 percent of women aged 15–49 are using any form of contraception and only 67% of women have a skilled professional present for the birth of their child. This low level of contraception use has not equated to a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS. Only 0.2 percent of women and 0.3 percent of men are infected. Having fewer women than men infected with AIDS is usually a trend found in more developed countries. The bad news on that front is that, according to Sister Namibia, \"the sale of young girls and women into prostitution slavery plays a major role in the transmission of AIDS among heterosexual couples.\" This practice is leading to an increase of cases of AIDS.\n\nThe final contributing factor to reproductive health is the number of children women have. The total fertility rate in Honduras is 2.78 children born/woman (2015 est.).\n\nFifty percent of births to women under the age of twenty were unplanned and nearly the same number of young women between the ages of 18 and 24 reported becoming sexually active, poorer women at higher rates. Access to birth control is typically more available to married women between the ages of 18 and 24. In regards to women's understanding of safe sex practices in Honduras, the vast majority of adolescents understand how and where to obtain condoms and have knowledge of HIV/AIDS prevention, but only a third of the population have a full educational awareness of the virus itself. \n\nThe highest formal awareness is among the wealthiest of teens, and the least amount of awareness is among the poorest. Abortion has been illegal in Honduras since it was banned in 1997. The Honduran Supreme Court banned the use of contraceptives for emergency purposes in 2012, making the unlawful administering or receiving of it punishable in the same way as abortion. \n\nTeenagers must have parental consent in order to be tested for HIV/AIDS. In 2010, the Honduran government signed the Ministerial Declaration of Preventing through Education, which set the goal of bettering the sexual and reproductive rights of adolescents by implementing more quality sex education programs in schools, among other related goals.\n\nThe UNDP's GII includes two measures as indicators of empowerment. These indicators are the percentage of parliament seats held by women compared to men, and the percentage of women with a least secondary education compared to men.\n\nPerhaps the most telling statistic on empowerment, the question \"who is the decision maker\" was posed to families in Honduras and 91.3% of those people answered the man was the primary decision maker vs. 8.7% female. This response suggests that the root of the gender problem in Honduras is the idea of patriarchy being the only way to operate and that women should always be the followers and caregivers, but not the decision makers. This insight into the culture of Honduras may be the key to development. Countries cannot simply stop in their tracks and change. It is only through the merging of old and new in the most seamless way that true and lasting change can be achieved.\n\nA common form of empowerment is through political channels. Women in Honduras find themselves almost entirely cut out of the political system. The constant fight for survival has kept most women out of organized labor parties where their grievances could potentially be heard. If people want their plight to be recognized, they typically need an organized movement to make the government listen. Honduran mothers who spend countless hours providing unpaid labor while also playing the role of the primary breadwinner, have no time to bring their case to the political stage.\n\nEconomic activity in the GII is based on only one statistic: the proportion of females compared to males in the labor force. As of 2014, women made 34.6% of the labor force in Honduras. Many women work in low-skilled jobs, often in bad conditions. Honduran women have a much lower participation in the workforce than other Latin American women, due to Honduras being more conservative than other countries in the region. The labour opportunities in rural areas are very limited for women, owing to a combination of lack of jobs and social views which dictate that women belong in the home.\n\nIn the 2008 Global Gender Gap Index, Honduras was ranked 21st out of 74 countries on their general index value. Pulled from the same data but for the economic participation and opportunity sub-index they were ranked 47th. That is a change of 26 spots when talking about general-well being versus economic inclusion. This is yet another indicator that gender inequality is lower in economic indicators.\n\nOn issues of women's health, Honduras did better than other countries close to it on the index, but the economic opportunities and participation leave a lot of room for improvement economically.\n\nThere has been a recent wave of immigration consisting mostly of young women moving from rural to urban areas in order to find work. This has led to urban centers in Honduras being made up of over 53% women. According to Sister Namibia this has resulted in \"rapid urban growth in recent years has spawned various social problems, including unemployment, lack of adequate housing and basic services, all of which affect women most severely.\"\n\nMen are twice as likely to be employed in Honduras as are women, and there are very strong stereotypes of what men's and women's jobs should be. Much of this comes from the Mesoamerican ideas of gender. Gender role stereotypes are reinforced from a young age. Boys are given machetes and girls are given meteates (the instrument women use to grind corn into meal).\n\nRural women carry out very important roles in agricultural life, but are prohibited from stepping out of those boundaries. Women cook, clean, plant crops and even tend animals, but only men are allowed to plow the fields. These roles from ancient culture are still evident even today - women are seen as limited on what they can and can't accomplish. The idea of male and female jobs also carries over into the field of unpaid labor, as women perform a great deal more unpaid labor than men.\n\nAlthough women have seen an increase in labor force participation in the past few decades, that is not necessarily an indication of equality in the labor force. This slow transition for women from unpaid to paid labor is a step in the right direction, but there is still much to be done in the battle for equal pay, jobs, and treatment. Women, in addition to having to work twice as hard in order to get a traditionally male-held job, are then paid less than their male counterparts for doing exactly the same job. Women are seen as a second choice as breadwinner in the home. They are preferred to stay home, work as homemakers, and become dependent on their dominant husbands. This gender role is carried into the workplace, making women secondary priority as employees.\n\nAlthough women are seen as a second choice for a breadwinner, it is becoming more and more common for women to be the main, and in many cases the sole breadwinner. Yoked with this burden of providing for a family while living in a country where one's labor is not valued can be extremely difficult. This has forced many women to be innovative and flexible when it comes to providing for their families.\n\nMany resort to operating food carts or peddling cheap merchandise on street corners. While this is a way to feed a family, it is also detrimental to the cause for women and plays a part in widening the gender gap even further. Overall the average woman makes considerably less than her male counterpart, and is usually forced into industries with little to no benefits and almost no job security.\n\nThe share of wealth that a certain group has can be a strong indicator of the amount of power that particular group holds in society. Women in Honduras have a very small share of the overall wealth, and the distribution of the type of wealth women possess reinforces their roles as homemakers and caretakers. This data shows the ratios of ownership of various goods:\n\nHome ownership: \n\nWomen: 38% \n\nMen: 59% Joint: 3%\n\nLand ownership: \n\nWomen:12.8%\n\nMen:87.2%\n\nCattle: \n\nWomen:13%\n\nMen: 72%\n\nJoint: 15%\n\nWork animals: Women:10%\n\nMen: 85% \n\nJoint- 5%\n\nWomen have a slight edge in ownership over chickens and pigs, but the place where women clearly have more ownership is in consumer durables. They tend to own more sewing machines, blenders, irons, stoves, toasters, and fridges, whereas men tend to own the computers, bikes, motorcycles, and cars. The assets that are predominantly owned by the women are of relatively small value compared to the high-value items that are owned almost exclusively by the men. Additionally, the items owned predominantly by the women all revolve around household care.\n\nThe underlying message given here is that in general, women own the chickens and the pigs, because they can then prepare them into a meal. They also own the items necessary to sew, blend, iron, cook, bake, and prepare and serve food. They do not, however, have the assets necessary to gain physical mobility through the means of owning a car or bicycle, check email, or cultivate a field, while the men do. This distribution of ownership reinforces the stereotypical and traditional gender roles in society.\n\nDue to the traditionally patriarchal nature of Honduras, girls were often educationally disadvantaged. The reason for this being that if times got tough and only one child in a family was going to be educated, any female children would lose their chance at education before the boys. This is due to the fact that it is much harder for a female to find work regardless of educational achievement. The sought-after, well-paying jobs are commonly associated with masculinity in Honduras, including heavy manual labor, technical work, and anything that requires extensive training or an advanced degree.\n\nThe main reason that girls are pulled out of school in the first place is usually to help in the family, leading to differences in educational attainment. The situation is changing, as the school life expectancy is today estimated to be higher for girls (12 years) than boys (11 years) -as of 2013. Honduras does have a fairly high literacy rate, which is similar for both sexes: 88.4% for males and 88.6% for females.\n\nViolence against women occurs in public and in private, and demonstrates the inequality of power between women and men. This has led to women being dominated and discriminated against by men and this violence forces women \"into a subordinate position compared with men\". \n\nThe most common form of gender-based violence is sexual in nature. Understandably, sexual violence involves exploitation and abuse and is related \"to any act, attempt, or threat that results in physical and emotional harm\". Sexual violence can occur in the family, through rape or marital rape, coercion, by attempt, in the form of harassment and as a weapon of war or torture. There are four more types of gender/sexuality-based violence:\n\n\nIn Honduras, the rate of femicide, is rated in sixth place according to a study done in 2011, and make up 9.6% of the total number of homicides in the country. In current years the rates of violence against women have increased. In this country, femicide is extremely brutal. Sometimes bodies are found burned or with the feet and hands tied. During the autopsies, it is often discovered that rape has occurred before the victim's death. In Honduras, any form of rape is considered a public crime and a report will be made even if charges are not pressed by the victim.\n\nIn Honduras and in many countries surrounding it, justice against femicide does not get served. Although there are women’s rights activists trying to take a stand, \"fewer than 3% of reported femicide cases are resolved by the courts\". This only gives the perpetrators more power and confidence to commit these crimes knowing that they will not be convicted, which makes femicide the norm in Honduras.\n\nAn estimated 27 percent of Honduran women report that they have endured some form of physical violence.\n\nAs a result, from the years 2005 through 2013, the numbers of violent death arose by two hundred and sixty-three percent. This made the rate of violent deaths of Honduran women increase from 2.7 in 2005 to 14.6 in 2013. \n\nThe Domestic Violence Act took effect after a long struggle by women's rights activists to get it passed. The act was focused on dealing with violence in the home, an issue which was largely overlooked by local authorities. The act needed not only to get police to crack down, but the judicial system and social systems also needed to be adjusted to deal with the repercussions. In 1998, the bill was passed and the authorities were charged with the difficult task of dealing with such a widespread and controversial issue. In order to deal with new court cases, special domestic violence judges were assigned to handle the new caseload.\n\nThe bill was inspired by the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, as well as other international organizations in support of women's rights, and had a main goal of reducing violence towards women in Honduras. There was also a network of therapists, charged with providing family counselling to those that were affected by the bill. Men who were sanctioned by the bill were also monitored to reduce the chances of future violence. The bill started off only being enforced around the capital and other major cities, but quickly spread throughout all of Honduras. This was a major step in reducing the frequency and acceptability of gender violence in Honduras.\n\nWomen's organizations have been in existence since the 1920s, when the Women's Cultural Society (Sociedad Cultural Feminina Hondureña) was formed and began to fight for women's rights. One leader, Visitación Padilla, actively opposed U.S. intervention in Honduras in 1924. Women also played important roles in the development of the labor movement,which became particularly active in the 1950s. According to Gladys Lanza, a trade union activist, women were extremely active in the 1954 national banana workers strike.\n\nThey controlled entrances to towns and markets, closed the bars so men could not get drunk, and ran collective kitchens. Despite the extent of this logistical work, there was not a single woman on the strike committee. In the 1950s women also became active in the fight for women's suffrage, which was obtained in 1955. The current Constitution of Honduras enshrines gender equality: art 60 reads: \"Any discrimination on grounds of sex, race, class and any other injuries to human dignity are declared punishable\". (\"Se declara punible toda discriminación por motivo de sexo, raza, clase y cualquier otra lesiva a la dignidad humana\").\n\nDespite the fact that women today have equal political rights, they remain under-represented in politics. Nevertheless, the numbers have increased in recent years, and as of 2013, women made up 25.80% of the Parliament.\n\nIn Honduras, there are many transnational families: members of the family (typically males) migrate to other countries, usually seeking economic opportunities. A decent number of Hondurans had been living in the United States since the 1950's, but this number increased significantly starting in the 1990's and 2000's. In 2010, there were about 523,000 Hondurans residing in the United States, the majority of which were individuals rather than whole families. As a result of this mass migration, the Honduran population relies heavily on remittances. Remittances have been a greater source of domestic income than any other sector of the economy of Honduras since 2000: twenty percent of Honduran households were receiving remittances. Statistics reveal that men are much more likely to migrate than women in Honduras. Eighty percent of Hondurans receiving remittances are women, which means that more women remain behind than men. The majority of these women are between the ages of 20 and 40. Approximately 40 percent of the remittances come from children, 30 percent from siblings, and 20 percent from spouses. This large-scale migration driven by the need to improve economic situations particularly impacts the women left behind in Honduras.\n\nThere are economic, social, and emotional impacts on the women left behind in Honduras as their male family members, such as brothers, husbands, fathers, and sons, migrate to countries such as the United States in order to earn money for their families. These migrations especially affect women who become the head of the household after their family member leaves. Personal interviews and anecdotal evidence reveal that women suffer from a significant emotional harm as their loved one embarks on an often dangerous journey. Typically, the men who migrate must stay away and work for several years in order to make enough money to adequately provide for the survival of their family members remaining in Honduras. This long term separation and the worry it gives rise to can be incredibly taxing. Interviews with Honduran women revealed that they typically feel much less safe once their male family members. One Honduran woman had a robbery since the criminals knew her husband had migrated and thus targeted her house. Furthermore, this emotional burden and anxiety manifests itself into physical illnesses.\n\nNot only do the women left behind in Honduras have to deal with emotional (and sometimes physical) strain, but they have more tasks to complete once their male family members migrate. These migrations often significantly increase the amount of work and responsibilities that Honduran women must accomplish and bear. Some of this additional work results from jobs that these women already had but shared with their husbands and brothers. For example, women become the sole caregivers of their children - the great physical distance separating their husbands from their children precludes these men from sharing this responsibility. Additional work comes in the form of the jobs their male family members used to take care of before they migrated. Some Honduran women must not only care for the children and their home, but also tackle additional tasks such as farming and other agricultural jobs.\n\nThere are several other ways in which already strongly prevalent gender inequalities in Honduras are exacerbated by the migration of males to countries such as the United States. Often, these men must employ the help of \"coyotes\" in order to safely cross the border. These \"coyotes\" often as for an incredibly large fee: thus, the women left at home become the managers of their husband or other male relative's debt. This inheritance of the debt not only restrains and pressures women financially, but it also increases their emotional stress as it extends the amount of time the men must stay away from home in order to make enough money to provide for their families and pay off this debt.\n\nAdditionally, the increase of work for women does not also lead to an increase of political or social power and influence. Thus, women are given an extra burden without being given extra resources, benefits, or power to handle this increased workload. Several Honduran women revealed in interviews that they did not feel more empowered by taking on these additional responsibilities. Not only are their jobs physically, emotionally, mentally, and financially demanding, but these extra jobs were not their choice. Several Honduran women said that if these burdens had been freely chosen rather than thrust on them, they might feel more empowered. Notably, more research needs to be done on the topic of the political impacts on women after the men migrate from Honduras. The effects are likely to differ between rural and urban areas.\n\nAs the previous part of this section highlights, many Hondurans migrated in the late 20th and very early 21st century for economic reasons, especially after the devastation of Hurricane Mitchin late 1998. However, more recent studies show that more women and children are migrating out of Latin American countries than were previously. This is especially the case for Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras. This new trend in migration out of Honduras is caused by an increase in sexual and gender violence, especially from gangs: \"gang members are using rape, kidnapping, torture, sexual violence, and other crimes, predominantly against women and girls\" in Honduras. In fact, Honduras had the seventh highest rate of gender-motivated murders of women in the world in 2013. Many LGBTQ+ women and children are specifically being targeted by these gangs, as well. Gangs use violence in part as a means to establish control over their territory. This increased violence against women and children have led to their migration to the United States for asylum.\n\nThis is a complex issue, as scholars have pointed to many contributing factors. One notable cause of the increased violence and subsequent migration of women and children is the long history of impunity of gang members in Honduras. The government and justice systems are unable to completely protect the victims of this violence. Fewer than three percent of gender-motivated murders remain unsolved by the courts in the countries of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. Both corruption and intimidation play a large role, and many people don't report the crimes against them out of fear. When people in Honduras do report these crimes, them and their families are often subjected to further gang violence, which the police and government are largely powerless to prevent.\n\nNot only do women experience violence while in Honduras, but they also suffer from attacks while migrating to the United States and other nations. This indicates that their situation in Honduras is so unlivable that they are willing to risk violence on their journey. Women are sexually and physically abused by other migrants, human smugglers, and even government officials or police. Women take contraception to prevent unwanted pregnancy in case of rape while they migrate, demonstrating the dangers they face and their desperation driving them to escape the violence in their home country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21179970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21179970", "title": "Gums and Stabilisers for the Food Industry", "text": "Gums and Stabilisers for the Food Industry\n\nGums and Stabilisers for the Food Industry is a biennial conference (see the official website) held in Wrexham, North Wales, since 1981, on the application of hydrocolloids (polysaccharides and proteins) in the food industry. Presentations at the conference cover recent advances in the structure, function and applications of gums and stabilisers, how these materials are used in industrial processes, and also educational material on the subject. The proceedings of each conference have been published (see below), with the most recent (9th through 16th conferences) published by the Royal Society of Chemistry. The conference series is organized by the Food Hydrocolloids Trust.\n\nThe intention of the conference series is to provide a forum for the free exchange of ideas between academia and industry and to promote the use and understanding of hydrocolloids in foods. Because hydrocolloids are sourced and used in all of the continents except Antarctica, and many types (such as resins, seed gums, and certain alginates) are obtained from specific countries or climate zones, the conference attracts an international attendance from Europe, Asia, North America, Australia, Africa and the Middle East.\n\nThe first conference series was held at Glyndŵr University in Wrexham in 1981, chaired by Professor Glyn O Phillips (also of Glyndŵr University), and all subsequent conferences have taken place at the same location and with the same chairman. Th eonly exception to this was the 2011 conference, held in Wageningen in the Netherlands. Until 2008, Glyndŵr University was known as the North-East Wales Institute of Higher Education (NEWI).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEntitled \"Gums and Stabilisers for the Food Industry 18: Hydrocolloid functionality for affordable and sustainable global food solutions\" will take place June 23-26 2013 in Wrexham, North Wales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47336708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47336708", "title": "Hamasah", "text": "Hamasah\n\nThe Hamasah (from Arabic حماسة \"valour\") is a genre of Arabic poetry that \"recounts chivalrous exploits in the context of military glories and victories\".\n\nThe first work in this genre is Kitab al-Hamasah of Abu Tammam.\n\nList of popular Hamasah works:\n\nLost works:\n"}
{"id": "30166758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30166758", "title": "Human trafficking in the Netherlands", "text": "Human trafficking in the Netherlands\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 1\" in 2017. According to the US Department of State, Human trafficking in the Netherlands is a problem which affects particularly women and girls, who are forced to work in the sex industry. In the year of 2009 there were 909 registered victims of human trafficking.\n\nIn 2017 it is estimated by the Dutch National Reporter Human Trafficking and Sexual Abuse of Children that more than 6000 people in the Netherlands fall victim to human traffic each year. Two thirds of the people trafficked, i.e. about 4000 people per year, fall victim to sexual slavery and abuse. This group consists largely of Dutch women, including minors (1320 girls each year) who are preyed upon by so-called \"lover boys\". The other 2000 victims of human trafficking are largely foreigners who are put to work by organized crime groups.\n\nAccording to the US Department of State, the Netherlands is both a source and destination country for men, women, and children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically forced prostitution and forced labor, though, to a lesser extent, it is a transit country for such trafficking. According to the US Department of State, the top five countries of origin for victims are the Netherlands, China, Nigeria, Hungary, and Sierra Leone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23980661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23980661", "title": "Indigenous peoples of the Philippines", "text": "Indigenous peoples of the Philippines\n\nThe Philippines consist of a large number of upland and lowland ethnolinguistic groups living in the country. The highland ethnic nations have co-existed with the lowland Austronesian ethnic groups for thousands of years in the Philippine archipelago. The primary difference is that they were not absorbed by centuries of Spanish and United States colonization of the Philippines, and in the process have retained their customs and traditions. This is mainly due to the rugged inaccessibility of the mountains, which discouraged Spanish and American colonizers from coming into contact with the highlanders. The indigenous peoples of northern Philippines are collectively called as \"Igorot\", while the non-Muslim indigenous groups of mainland Mindanao are collectively called as \"Lumad\". Numerous indigenous groups also live outside these two indigenous corridors.\n\nAccording to the Komisyon ng Wikang Filipino, there are 135 recognized local languages in the Philippines, one of which (Filipino) is known to all groups in the Philippines, and each of the remaining 134 is inherent to a single ethnic group. There are 134 ethnic groups in the Philippines, the majority of which are indigenous, though much of the overall Philippine population is constituted by only 8-10 lowland ethnic groups. \n\nIn the 1990s, there were more than 100 highland tribal groups constituting approximately 3% of the population. The upland tribal groups were a blend in ethnic origin, like those in lowland areas of the country, although the upland tribal groups do not interact nor intermingle with the latter.\n\nBecause they displayed a variety of social organization, cultural expression and artistic skills. They showed a high degree of creativity, usually employed to embellish utilitarian objects, such as bowls, baskets, clothing, weapons and spoons. The tribal groups of the Philippines are known for their carved wooden figures, baskets, weaving, pottery and weapons.\n\nThese groups ranged from various Igorot tribes, a group that includes the Bontoc, Ibaloi, Ifugao, Isneg, Kalinga, Kankanaey and Tinguian, who built the Rice Terraces. They also covered a wide spectrum in terms of their integration and acculturation with lowland Christian and Muslim Filipinos. Native groups such as the Bukidnon in Mindanao, had intermarried with lowlanders for almost a century. Other groups such as the Kalinga in Luzon have remained isolated from lowland influence.\n\nThere were several upland groups living in the Cordillera Central of Luzon in 1990. At one time it was employed by lowland Filipinos in a pejorative sense, but in recent years it came to be used with pride by native groups in the mountain region as a positive expression of their ethnic identity. The Ifugao of Ifugao province, the Bontoc, Kalinga, Tinguian, the Kankanaey and Ibaloi were all farmers who constructed the rice terraces for many centuries.\n\nOther mountain peoples of Luzon are the Isnag of the province of Apayao, the Gaddang of the border between Kalinga and Isabela provinces and the Ilongot of Nueva Vizcaya province and Caraballo Mountains all developed hunting and gathering, farming cultivation and headhunting. Other groups such as the Negritos formerly dominated the highlands throughout the islands for thousands of years, but have been reduced to a small population, living in widely scattered locations, primarily along the eastern ranges of the mountains.\n\nIn the southern Philippines, upland and lowland tribal groups were concentrated on Mindanao and western Visayas, although there are several upland groups such as the Mangyan living in Mindoro. Among the most important groups found on Mindanao are collectively called the Lumad, and includes the Manobo which is a bigger ethnographic group such as the Ata-Manobo and the Matigsalug found in Davao City, Davao del Norte and Bukidnon Province; the Langilan-Manobo in Davao del Norte; the Agusan-Manobo in Agusan del Sur and southern parts of Agusan del Norte; the Pulanguiyon-Manobo of Bukidnon Province; the Ubo-Manobo in southwestern parts of Davao City, and northern parts of North Cotabato Province that is also to include the Arumanen-Manobo of Carmen (N. Cotabato); the Dulangan-Manobo in the Province of Sultan Kudarat; the Talaandig, Higaonon and Bukidnon of Bukidnon province, Bagobo, Mandaya, Mansaka, Tagakaulo in Davao region who inhabited the mountains bordering the Davao Gulf; the Kalagan lives particularly in lowland areas and seashores of Davao del Norte, Compostella Valley, Davao Oriental and some seashores in Davao Del Sur, the Subanon of upland areas in Zamboanga; the Mamanua in the Agusan-Surigao border region; the B'laan, Teduray and Tboli in the region of the Cotabato province, and the Samal. Samal is synonymous with Luwa'an. Yakan is the indigenous tribe in the hinterlands of Basilan Province. In the lowland lives the Sama Banguingui tribe while in coastal areas there leave the nomadic Luwa'an. Sulu lowland areas are also home of the Sama Banguingui. The Sama or the Sinama and the Jama Mapun are the indigenous tribes in the province of Tawi-Tawi. \nThe Philippine government succeeded in establishing a number of protected reservations for tribal groups. Highland peoples were expected to speak their native language, dress in their traditional tribal clothing, live in houses constructed of natural materials using traditional architectural designs and celebrate their traditional ceremonies of propitiation of spirits believed to be inhabiting their environment. They are also encouraged to re-establish their traditional authority structure in which, as in indigenous society were governed by chieftains known as \"Rajah\" and \"Datu\".\n\nContact between primitive and modern ethnic groups usually resulted in weakening or destroying tribal culture without assimilating the indigenous groups into modern society. It seemed doubtful that the shift of the Philippine government policy from assimilation to cultural pluralism could reverse the process. Several Filipino tribes tends to lead to the abandonment of traditional culture because land security makes it easier for tribal members to adopt the economic process of the larger society and facilitates marriage with outsiders.\n\nIn the past, the Philippine government bureaus could not preserve tribes as social museum exhibits, but with the aid of various nationwide organizations, they hoped to help the people adapt to modern society without completely losing their ethnic identity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "435747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435747", "title": "Initiative for Peace and Human Rights", "text": "Initiative for Peace and Human Rights\n\nThe Initiative for Peace and Human Rights () was the oldest opposition group in East Germany. It was founded at the beginning of 1986 and was independent of the churches and state. In February 1990 it merged with New Forum and Democracy Now to form Alliance 90.\n\nPeople involved in the Initiative for Peace and Human Rights included Bärbel Bohley, Ulrike Poppe, Martin Böttger and Ibrahim Böhme.\n\n"}
{"id": "43955768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43955768", "title": "Isotopic analysis by nuclear magnetic resonance", "text": "Isotopic analysis by nuclear magnetic resonance\n\nIsotopic analysis is one of the most difficult scientific processes in the history of man. There are few ways to conduct this analysis, as a result. However, nuclear magnetic resonance is one of those ways.\n\nThis method allows to quantify with great precision the differences of isotopic contents on each site of a molecule and thus to measure the specific natural isotope fractionation for each site of this molecule. The SNIF-NMR analysis is mainly used to check the authenticity of wines, spirits, fruit juice, honey, sugar and vinegar and to control the naturality of some aromatic molecules (vanillin, benzaldehyde, raspberry ketone, anethole ...). The SNIF-NMR method \nhas been adopted by the Organisation Internationale de la Vigne et du vin (OIV) and the European Union as an official method for wine analysis. It is also an official method adopted by the Association Of Analytical Chemists (AOAC) for analysis of fruit juices, maple syrup, vanillin, and by the Comité Européen de Normalisation (CEN) for vinegar.\n\nThe method has been developed, in response to a government tender, by Professor Gerard Martin and his team at the University of Nantes, in order to detect the (over) sugaring of wine and enrichment of grape musts.\n\nThe OIV adopts it as an official method\n→ Implementation of the SNIF-NMR method for official laboratories in Europe\n\n→ Implementation of the SNIF-NMR< method for official laboratories in US\n→ Implementation of the SNIF-NMR method for official laboratories in Asia\n\nThe atoms hydrogen, oxygen, and carbon co-exist naturally in specific proportions with their stable isotopes, 2H (or D), 18O and 13C respectively, in different proportions as shown in the figure 2 below.\n\nThe amount and distribution of the different isotopes in a molecule is influenced by: \n\nThis phenomenon is known as Natural Isotopic Fractionation (see Figure 3). The resulting isotopic fingerprint can provide information on the origin - botanical, synthetic, geographical - of the molecule or product.\n\nThe Principle of the SNIF-NMR is built on: “The Natural Isotopic Fractionation”. Routinely for food authenticity, two nuclei are used:\n\nThe SNIF-NMR is applied on pure (or purified) molecules. Therefore, some preparation steps may be required in the lab before analysis.\nFor example, for the SNIF-NMR of ethanol, according to official methods:\n\nAt each step of the SNIF-NMR analysis, efforts should be made to avoid parasite isotopic fractionation. Control measures such as determining the alcoholic strength of the intermediate products of the analysis (fermented juice or distillate) are performed on each sample.\n\nThe isotopic ratios of a molecule can also be determined by isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS), sample quantity for IRMS is much lower than for NMR, and there is the possibility of coupling the mass spectrometer to a chromatographic system to enable on-line purification or analyses of several components of a complex mixture. However the sample is burnt after a physical transformation such as combustion or pyrolysis. Therefore, it gives a mean value of the concentration of the isotope studied between all sites of the molecule. IRMS is the official AOAC technique used for the average ratio C/C (or δC) of sugars or ethanol, and the official CEN and OIV method for the 18O/16O in water.\n\nThe SNIF-NMR method (Site-Specific Natural Isotope Fractionation studied by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance) is able to determine, to a high level of accuracy, the isotopic ratios for each of the sites of the molecule, which enables a better discrimination. For example, for ethanol (CHCHOH), the three ratios ((D/H)CH, (D/H)CH and (D/H)) can be obtained.\n\nAOAC Official Method for detecting the addition of sugar in a fruit juice or in maple syrup. It is the only reliable method to detect addition of C3 sugar (ex: beet sugar).\n\nEthanol molecules obtained after complete fermentation of the sugar coexists with 3 naturally monodeuterated isotopomers (CHD-CH-OH, CH-CHDOH and-CH-CHOD). Their presence can then be quantified with relative precision.\n\nOn the following H-NMR spectrum (Figure 3), a peak corresponds to one of the three observed isotopomers of ethanol. \nIn the AOAC official method, the ratios of (D/H)CH and (D/H)CH are calculated by comparison with an Internal standard, tetramethylurea (TMU), with a certified (D/H) value.\n\nThe following Figure 9 summarizes the principle of interpretation of:\n\n\nValues obtained on a test sample are then compared with the values of authentic samples (Database).\n\nSNIF-NMR is the official method of the OIV to determine the authentication of wine origin. It is the only method to detect C3 sugar addition (like beet sugar).\n\nThe isotopic parameters of both water and ethanol are related to the humidity and temperature of the growing region of the plant. Therefore, considerations of meteorological data of the region and of the year help to make a diagnosis. In the case of wine and fruits, the isotopic parameters of ethanol have been shown to respond even to subtle environmental variations and they efficiently characterize the region of production.\n\nSince 1991, an isotopic data bank is built in the Joint Research Centre of the European Community (EC-JRC) concerning wines of all European members. The database contains several thousand entries for European wines and is maintained and updated every year. This database is accessible for all official public laboratories. Private companies involved in food and beverage controls have also collected authentic samples and built up specific data banks.\n\nThus, by comparing the specific natural isotope fractionation corresponding to each site of a molecule of ethanol of wine with that of a molecule known and referenced in a database. The geographical origin, botany and method of production of the ethanol molecule and thus the authenticity of wine can be checked.\n\nThe origins of vinegars obtained by bacterial or chemical oxidation of ethanol resulting from the fermentation of various sugars can be identified by the H-SNIF-NMR. It allows to control the quality of vinegar and to determine if it comes from sugar cane, wine, malt, cider, and alcohol or from a chemical synthesis.\n\nH-SNIF-NMR is the official AOAC method for determining the natural vanillin.\n\nThe abundance of five monodeuterated isotopomers for vanillin can be measured by H-SNIF-NMR. The vanillin molecule is represented in figure 11, all observable sites for which the site specific deuterium concentrations can be measured are referenced with a number.\n\nAs for the wine or the fruit, the interpretation of results in terms of origin is done by comparison of the isotopic parameters of the sample analyzed with those from a group of referenced molecules of known origin. \nIt appears that all the origins of vanillin are well discriminated using H-NMR data. Particularly, vanillin ex-bean can well be distinguished from the other sources, as we can see in figure 12 below.\n\nAdditionally, this method is the only one to discriminate between natural and biosynthetic sources of vanillin.\n\nThe naturality of different aroma can also be checked using SNIF-NMR: for example for anethole, abundance of only six monodeuterated isotopomers can be measured by H-SNIF-NMR that allows differentiating the botanical origins fennel, star anise or pine.\n\n\"Other applications:\"\nThe SNIF-NMR applied to benzaldehyde can detect adulterated bitter almond and cinnamon oils. It is demonstrated that the site specific deuterium contents of benzaldehyde allow the determination of the origin of the molecule: synthetic (ex-toluene and ex-benzal chloride), natural (ex-kernels from apricots, peaches, cherries and ex-bitter almond) and semisynthetic (ex-cinnamaldehyde extracted from cinnamon).\nOther applications have also been published: raspberry ketone), heliotropine,…\n\nAs described in the work of E. Tenailleau and S. Akoka, an optimization of the technique parameters have enabled to reach a better accuracy for the C NMR measurements).\n\nThe C-SNIF-NMR method is called method “new frontier” because it is the first analytical method that can differentiate sugars coming from C4-metabolism plants (cane, maize, etc.) and some crassulacean acid metabolism plants (CAM-metabolism) like pineapple or agave.\n\nThis method can also be applied to tequila products, where it can differentiate authentic 100% agave tequila, misto tequila (made from at least 51% agave), and products made from a larger proportion of cane or maize sugar and therefore not complying with the legal definition of tequila.\n\nThis method will certainly have further applications in future, in the field of food and beverage analysis authenticity.\n\n"}
{"id": "12578548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12578548", "title": "Joseph Paul Jernigan", "text": "Joseph Paul Jernigan\n\nJoseph Paul Jernigan (January 31, 1954 – August 5, 1993) was a Texas murderer who was executed by lethal injection at 12:31 a.m.\n\nIn 1981, Jernigan was found guilty of \"cold-blooded murder\" and sentenced to death for killing Edward Hale, a 75-year-old homeowner who discovered Jernigan and an accomplice as they were burglarizing his home. Jernigan spent 12 years in prison before his final plea for clemency was denied. At the prompting of a prison chaplain, he agreed to donate his body for scientific research or medical use. His cadaver was sectioned and photographed for the Visible Human Project and the University of Colorado School of Medicine by Dr. Vic Spitzer and associates. He is the subject of an HBO documentary \"Virtual Corpse\" and also appeared on the British video game TV series, GamesMaster's gore special.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39726804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39726804", "title": "Kaohsiung Museum of Labor", "text": "Kaohsiung Museum of Labor\n\nThe Kaohsiung Museum of Labor () is a museum about labor in Cianjin District, Kaohsiung City, Taiwan.\n\nThe museum was originally officially opened in conjunction with the International Workers' Day on 1 May 2010 in Pier-2 Art Center. However, the soft opening was earlier, on 26 December 2009. In 2015, the museum was relocated from Yancheng to Cianjin District and was reopened on 25 July the same year. During the opening ceremony, various events and displays were held, such as retro marketplace and storytelling.\n\nThe museum features the evolution of the labor force in the city, Taiwan's labor movement and the recent animation, comics and video games sectors.\n\nThe museum is accessible within walking distance west from City Council Station of the Kaohsiung MRT.\n\n"}
{"id": "4783032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4783032", "title": "Karo people (Indonesia)", "text": "Karo people (Indonesia)\n\nThe Karo, or Karonese, are a people of the 'tanah Karo' (Karo lands) of North Sumatra and a small part of neighboring Aceh. The Karo lands consist of Karo Regency, plus neighboring areas in East Aceh Regency, Langkat Regency, Dairi Regency, Simalungun Regency and Deli Serdang Regency. In addition, the cities of Binjai and Medan, both bordered by Deli Serdang Regency, contain significant Karo populations, particularly in the Padang Bulan area of Medan. The town of Sibolangit, Deli Serdang Regency in the foothills on the road from Medan to Berastagi is also a significant Karo town.\n\nKaroland contains two major volcanoes, Mount Sinabung, which erupted after 400 years of dormancy in 2010, and Mount Sibayak. Karoland consists of the cooler high lands, and the upper and lower lowlands.\n\nThe Karolands were conquered by the Dutch in 1906, and in 1909 roads to the highlands were constructed, ending the isolation of the highland Karo people. The road linked Medan and the lowlands to Kabanjahe and from there to both Kutacane in Aceh and Pematangsiantar in Simalungun.\n\nIn 1911, an agricultural project began at Berastagi, now the major town in Karoland, to grow European vegetables in the cooler temperatures. Berastagi is today the most prosperous part of Karoland, just one hour from Medan, while towns further in the interior suffer from lower incomes and limited access to healthcare.\n\nThe administrative centre of Karo Regency is Kabanjahe.\n\nThe Karo people speak the Karo language, a language related to, but not mutually intelligible with, other Batak languages, in addition to Indonesian. These Karo people are divided up into clans or Merga. The Karo Merga are Ginting, Karo-Karo, Perangin-Angin, Sembiring and Tarigan, these Merga are then divided up into families.\n\nIn 13th to 16th century, the Karo people believed has established Aru Kingdom (also spelled Haru), located in modern day Medan city and Deli Serdang Regency. It was one of the earliest kingdom in Sumatra. The population of Aru Kingdom adhered native animism, Hinduism and Islam. Islam slowly gained influence in coastal area since late 13th century. Despite among the earliest Sumatran kingdom that was exposed to Islam, the people of Aru kingdom remained predominantly pagan, especially those who inhabit interior region. The successor state of Aru Kingdom was the Sultanate of Deli, which demonstrate a mixed influences of Karo, Malay, Tamil and Aceh.\n\nToday, the religion of Karo people are mostly Christian, a religion brought to Sumatra in the 19th Century by missionaries. However, an increasing number living away from the Karo Highlands have converted to Islam, with the influence of Muslim Malay from neighboring Deli area in Medan, and Javanese immigrants, thus making the traditional habits of pig farming and cooking less common. Some Muslims and Christians however still retain their traditional animist beliefs in ghosts, spirits (perbegu), and traditional jungle medicine, despite that fact it contradicts their other beliefs.\n\nKaro people traditionally lived in shared longhouses, but very few now remain, and new construction is exclusively of modern designs.\n\nIt is believed that Karo people may have migrated from the other lands in order to take part in trade with the visiting Tamils. This intercourse had an influence on their religious beliefs, as well as ethnic makeup, the marga 'Sembiring', meaning 'black one', and many Sembiring sub-marga (Colia, Berahmana, Pandia, Meliala, Depari, Muham, Pelawi and Tekan) are clearly of South-Indian origin, suggesting that inter-marriage between Karo and Tamil people took place.\n\nThe Karo were harassing Dutch interests in East Sumatra, and Jacob Theodoor Cremer, a Dutch administrator, regarded evangelism as a means to suppress this activity. The Netherlands Missionary Society answered the call, commencing activities in the Karolands in 1890, where they engaged not only in evangelism, but also in ethnology and documenting the Karo culture. The missionaries attempted to construct a base in Kabanjahe in the Karo highlands, but were repelled by the suspicious locals.\n\nIn retaliation the Dutch administration waged a war to conquer the Karolands, as part of their final consolidation of power in the Indies. The Karo perceived Christianity as the 'Dutch religion', and its followers as 'dark-skinned Dutch'. In this context, the Karo church was initially unsuccessful, and by 1950 the church had only 5,000 members. In the years following Indonesian independence the perception of Christianity among the Karo as an emblem of colonialism faded, with the church itself acquiring independence, and adopting more elements of traditional Karo culture such as music (whereas previously the brass band was promoted). By 1965, the Karo church had grown to 35,000 members.\n\nUnlike the Toba Batak, who embraced Christianity fairly readily, the Karo continued to follow their traditional religion for several decades after the arrival of the first Christian missionaries in the Karolands.\n\nFollowing the Indonesian Genocide in 1965–1966, at which time over 70% of the Karo still followed traditional religions, there was a push for Indonesians to identify with an established religion. Many Karo joined the GBKP (Batak Karo Protestant church) (60,000 were baptised in 1966–1970.), and from 5,000 Muslims (mostly non-Karo) in Karoland in 1950, there were 30,000 in 1970.\n\nAt this time, the \"Balai Pustaka Adat Merga Si Lima\" (BPAMSL) was established in Berastagi. BPAMSL, proclaimed the 'agama Pemena', or the religion (agama) of the founders (Pemena).\n\nThe concept of 'religion' was relatively new in the Karoland; historically the neighbouring Muslim people, were known as 'kalak Jawi' or the people of the Jawi lands, and the concept of 'kalak Kristen', or Christian people, was the first time that people were identified by their religion rather than their land. The 'agama Pemena' of BPAMSL was a defence against accusations of atheism, Communism or animism.\n\nBPAMSL conducted a ceremony in the Lau Debuk–Debuk hot spring akin to the one to invest a new Karo village. This ceremony essentially validated the Dutch-established Berastagi as a 'true' Karo village, and was attended by the regent of Karo regency and other political figures.\n\nAt that time, BPAMSL became the largest religious organisation in the Karolands, surpassing the GBKP, and absorbing many who had joined it following the anti-Communist purge.\n\nAs a response to the Pemena movement, the GBKP after 1969 determined that members could participate in village rituals as a matter of adat (tradition), whereas previously they had been rejected by GBKP as of a religious (unchristian) nature.\n\nAfter Golkar won the elections in 1972, Djamin Ginting, a leading BPAMSL figure proclaimed BPAMSL as a movement within Golkar, adopting Islam as his religion, while Indonesian National Party supporters rejected this. With BPAMSL no longer a united force for the practice of Pemena, and Pemena itself no longer a uniting force in the Karoland, and with all Indonesians required to follow one of the religions of Islam, Protestantism, Catholicism, Hinduism and Buddhism, or risk writing 'without belief' on their identity card, the board members of BPAMSL met with a wealthy Indian man from Medan and determined that the traditional religion was in fact an expression of Indian Hinduism, and that it had been founded by a 'Bagavan Bṛgu', from which had been derived the alternate name for the Karo beliefs 'Perbegu' (followers of 'begu' (in Karo, begu is a spirit or ghost)), the existence of Indian-originating Karo marga names and similarities between Karo ritual and Indian Hindu ones all proving this. Thus the Association of Karo Hinduism (PAHK) was proclaimed.\nThe PAHK declared 'Pemena is the same as Hinduism' and received funding from Medan Indians for their cause. PAHK became a movement within Parisada Hindu Dharma Indonesia, and as a culmination of this, in 1985 PAHK became a branch of the PHDI, PHDK. When Parisada Hindu Dharma Karo (PHDK) was established, it claimed 50,000 members, and 50,000 more sympathisers. The PHD built a Balinese-style temple in Tanjung, a Karo village to inaugurate the PHDK. In doing so it was stated that PHDI (i.e. Balinese) Hinduism was the only valid form, and in fact the Karo 'Hindu' ritual were invalid, the name change from 'Hindu Karo' to 'Hindu Dharma Karo' and the replacement of Tamil Indians on the PAHK board with Balinese on the PHDK symbolising the assertion of 'Hindu Dharma' as the 'valid' Hindu religion, with little regard paid to re-imagining Karo rituals within an Agama Hindu context.\n\nThere was an immediate decline in PAHK/PHDK support, with a small number of people still following the PHDK practices, but others following traditional Karo (Pemena) rituals outside of the formal context of PHDK. This left the Christian GBKP, by then for many years an indigenous Karo-run adat-respecting church a rather more comfortable option for most Karo than the Balinese Hinduism asserted by PHDK. There are today four Balinese-style PHDK temples in the Karoland, but the concept of Karo traditional beliefs as a manifestation of Hinduism is otherwise largely extinct.\n\nAlthough the Gereja Batak Karo Protestan (GBKP) is the largest Karo church, with has 276,000 members (as of 2006) in 398 congregations with 196 pastors, there are also Catholic (33,000 members as of 1986) and several Pentecostalist denominations.\n\nKaro people belong to one of five marga or clans, which are Ginting, Karo-Karo, Perangin-Angin, Sembiring and Tarigan. Each marga is further divided into sub-marga (83 in total). With the exception of marga Karo-Karo, most Karo identify themselves by their principal rather than sub-marga.\n\nKaro and Batak adat prohibits marriage within a marga (e.g., Ginting with Ginting). Upon marriage, the bride becomes a part of the groom's family, with the kalimbubu (bride's family) joining with anakberu (groom's family).\n\nKaronese marriages are very large affairs, with typically 200 attendees, comprising the numerous family members of both marrying parties, comprising a number of elements, including the chewing of betel nut (sirih), traditional Karonese dancing (which focuses on hand movements), the payment of a nominal dowry to each of the kalimbubu. Food is cooked by the anakberu, who will spend many hours cooking vast quantities to cater for the numerous guests. This social obligation is expected to be reciprocated, so that Karonese people can attend several weddings each month. Non-Karo people do not attend the wedding ceremony, although such friends might be invited to a separate party in the evening. Where a non-Karonese person wishes to marry a Karonese, they would be adopted into a Karo marga.\n\nTraditionally kalimbubu-anakberu relationships would be reinforced by cross-cousin marriages (i.e. to one's mother's brother's child), however in modern Karo society this tradition is no longer important.\n\nKaro tradition states that the Merga si Lima originate from five villages, each established by a Sibayak, a founding community. The Sibayak of Suka whose family name was Ginting Suka established the village of Suka. The Sibayak of Lingga called Karo-karo Sinulingga established the village of Lingga. The Sibayak of Barusjahe whose family name was Karo-karo Barus pioneered the village of Barusjahe. The Sibayak of Sarinembah, called Sembiring Meliala established the village of Sarinembah. The Sibayak of Kutabuluh named Perangin-angin established the village of Kutabuluh.\n\nEach one of these five villages has its own satellite villages inhabited by the extended families of the main village inhabitants. The satellite villages were established for the convenience of the villagers whose fields were relatively far from the main villages. The purpose was to save them time when travelling back and forth from the village to their fields. Today, these satellite villages have developed and matured to be independent of the main villages. In the old times, these satellite villages used to ask for help from the main villages to deal with natural disasters, tribal disputes, diseases and famine.\n\nThe leaders of these satellite villages were called URUNGs. The Sibayak of Lingga administered five villages i.e., Tiganderket, Tiga Pancur, Naman, Lingga and Batukarang. The Sibayak of Suka administered four villages i.e., Suka, Seberaya, Ajinembah and Tengging. The Sibayak of Sarinembah administered four villages i.e., Sarinembah, Perbesi, Juhar and Kutabangun. The Sibayak of Barusjahe administered two villages i.e., Barusjahe and Sukanalu. The Sibayak of Kutabuluh administered two villages i.e., Kutabuluh and Marding-ding.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "885657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885657", "title": "Khasi people", "text": "Khasi people\n\nThe Khasi people, endonym: (\"Children of the Seven Huts\"), are an indigenous ethnic group of Meghalaya in north-eastern India, with a significant population in the bordering state of Assam, and in certain parts of Bangladesh. The Khasi people are the native people of Meghalaya and are the largest ethnic group in the state. Their language, Khasi, is categorised as the northernmost Austroasiatic language. Primarily an oral language, they had no script of their own, they used the Bengali script until the arrival of the Welsh missionaries. Particularly significant in this regard was a Welsh evangelist, Thomas Jones, who had transcribed the Khasi language into the Roman/Latin script. The Khasi people form the majority of the population of the eastern part of Meghalaya, and is the state's largest community, with around 48% of the population of Meghalaya. Before the arrival of Christian missionaries the Khasi people practiced an indigenous tribal religion. Contrary to popular belief, the Khasis were never Sanskritized (nor were they Islamicized). Though around 85% of the Khasi populace have embraced Christianity, a substantial minority of the Khasi people still follow and practice their age old indigenous religion, which is known as \"Ka Niam Khasi\". Other religions practised among the Khasis include Catholicism, Anglicanism, Unitarianism, Presbyterianism (largest Christian denomination among the Khasis), and others. A small number of Khasis, as a result of inter-community marriages, are also Muslims. The main crops produced by the Khasi people are betel leaf, areca nut, oranges, local rice, vegetables, etc.\n\nThe War sub-tribe of the Khasi community designed and built the famous living root bridges of the Cherrapunji region. Under the Constitution of India, the Khasis have been granted the status of Scheduled Tribe. A unique feature of the Khasi people is that they follow the matrilineal system of descent and inheritance. However, it must not be wrongly thought that men are completely powerless and have no say in private affairs of the household whatsoever. In matters of inheritance, some families do give men shares of the ancestral property, though the daughters usually get bigger shares. The reason is that, since women are the ones to continue the family lineage, giving them larger shares is necessary for them to run the households. In the Khasi system of asset management, the Khasi maternal uncles (Kñi) of the household (usually under the authority of the eldest Kñi), are the managers of their sister's property. No decision can be taken without their consent. In their wife's household too, they provide for their children like a normal father would. In present times, many Khasis are well placed in government and corporate sectors. Many Khasis are well educated. The tribe has produced many IAS, IPS and IFS bureaucrats. Many Khasis are also settled abroad, particularly in the US and Great Britain.\n\nKhasi mythology traces the tribe's original abode to 'Ki \"Hynñiewtrep\" (\"The Seven Huts\"). According to the Khasi mythology, \"U Blei Trai Kynrad\" (God, the Lord Master) had originally distributed the human race into 16 heavenly families (\"Khadhynriew Trep\"). However, seven out of these 16 families are stuck on earth while the other 9 are stuck in Heaven. According to the myth, a heavenly ladder resting on the sacred Lum Sohpetbneng Peak (located in the present-day Ri-Bhoi district)enabled people to go freely and frequently to heaven whenever they pleased until one day they were tricked into cutting a divine tree which was situated at Lum Diengiei Peak (also in present-day Ri-Bhoi district), a grave error which prevented them access to the heavens forever. This myth is often seen as a metaphor of how nature and trees in particular are the manifestation of the divine on Earth and destroying nature and trees means severing our ties with the Divine. The Khasi indigenous religion like many other tribal religions of the world which are all based on nature worship face a growing threat of disappearance with the widespread dominance of Christianity and draws its beliefs from earlier times.\nLike the Japanese, the Khasis use the Rooster as a symbol because they believe that it was he who aroused God and also humbly paved and cleared the path for God to create the Universe in the beginning of time. The rooster is the symbol of Morning marking a new beginning and a new sunrise.\n\nThe Khasi language is classified as part of the Austroasiatic language family. According to Peter Wilhelm Schmidt, the Khasi people are related to the Mon-Khmer people of South East Asia. Multiple researches indicate that the Austroasiatic populations in India are derived from migrations from southeast Asia during the Holocene. Many of the words also originate from the Tibetan language. \"Nga\" meaning \"I\" is the same in Khasi. Meghalaya was a part of Burma much before India claimed it as a part of it after it's independence from British rule. Traces of connections with the Kachin tribe of North Burma have been also been in the Khasis. The Khasi people also have their own word for the Himalayan mountains which is \"Ki Lum Makachang\" which means that at one point of time, they did cross the mighty mountains. Therefore, all these records and their present culture, features and language strongly show that they also have a strong Tibeto-Himalayan- Burman influence. The word \"Khas\" means hills and they have always been people of cold and hilly regions and have never been connected to the plains or arid regions. This nature loving tribe call the wettest place on Earth their home. The village of Mawsynram in Meghalaya receives 467 inches of rain per year.\n\nThe Khasis first came in contact with the British in 1823, after the latter captured Assam. The area inhabited by the Khasis became a part of the Assam province after the Khasi Hill States (which numbered to about 25 kingdoms) entered into a subsidiary alliance with the British.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census of India, over 1.41 million Khasi lived in Meghalaya in the districts of East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hills, Ri-Bhoi, West Jaintia Hills and East Jaintia Hills. In Assam, their population reached 35,000. It is generally considered by many Khasi sociologists that the Khasi Tribe consist of seven sub-tribes, hence the title 'Children of the Seven Huts': Khynriam, Pnar, Bhoi, War, Maram, Lyngngam and Diko. The Khynriam (or Nongphlang) inhabit the uplands of the East Khasi Hills District; the Pnar or Synteng live in the uplands of the Jaintia Hills. The Bhoi live in the lower hills to the north and north-east of the Khasi Hills. and Jaintia Hills towards the Brahmaputra valley, a vast area now under Ri Bhoi District. The War, usually divided into War-Jaintia and War-Khynriam in the south of the Khasi Hills, live on the steep southern slopes leading to Bangladesh. The Maram inhabit the uplands of the central parts of West Khasi Hills Districts. The Lyngngam people who inhabit the western parts of the West Khasi Hills bordering the Garo Hills display linguistic and cultural characteristics which show influences from both the Khasis to their east and the Garo people to the west. The last sub-group completing the \"seven huts\", are the Diko, an extinct group who once inhabited the lowlands of the West Khasi Hills.\n\nKhasi people are mostly of short stature, with some exceptions. Estimates show that the average height is 5 feet 2 inches for Khasi men and around 4 feet 11 inches for khasi women. A majority of Khasi people are short while a very few among them are taller, such as some Khasi males with heights ranging from 5.5 feet to 5.6 feet respectively and for women heights ranging from 5 feet to 5.4 feet normally.\n\nThe traditional Khasi male dress is a \"Jymphong\", a longish sleeveless coat without collar, fastened by thongs in front. Nowadays, most male Khasis have adopted western attire. On ceremonial occasions they appear in a \"Jymphong\" and sarong with an ornamental waist-band and they may also wear a turban.\n\nThe traditional Khasi female dress is called the \"Jainsem\" or \"Dhara\", both of which are rather elaborate with several pieces of cloth, giving the body a cylindrical shape. On ceremonial occasions they may wear a crown of silver or gold. A spike or peak is fixed to the back of the crown, corresponding to the feathers worn by the menfolk. The \"Jainsem\" consists of two pieces of material fastened at each shoulder. The \"Dhara\" consists of a single piece of material also fastened at each shoulder.\n\nThe Khasis are, for the most part, monogamous. Their social organisation does not favour other forms of marriage; therefore, deviation from this norm is quite rare. Young men and women are permitted considerable freedom in the choice of mates. Potential marriage partners are likely to have been acquainted before betrothal. Once a man has selected his desired spouse, he reports his choice to his parents. They then secure the services of a mediator to make the arrangements with the woman's family (provided that the man's clan agree with his choice). The parents of the woman ascertain her wishes and if she agrees to the arrangement her parents check to make certain that the man to be wed is not a member of their clan (since Khasi clans are exogamous, marital partners may not be from the same clan). If this is satisfactory then a wedding date is set.\n\nDivorce (with causes ranging from incompatibility to lack of offspring) is easily obtainable. This ceremony traditionally consists of the husband handing the wife 5 cowries or paisa which the wife then hands back to her husband along with 5 of her own. The husband then throws these away or gives them to a village elder who throws them away. Present-day Khasis divorce through the Indian legal system.\n\nThe type of marriage is the determining factor in marital residence. In short, post marital residence for a married man when an heiress (known as \"Ka Khadduh\") is involved must be matrilocal (that is, in his mother-in-law's house), while post marital residence when a non-heiress is involved is neolocal. Generally, Khasi men prefer to marry a non-heiress because it will allow them to form independent family units somewhat immune to pressures from the wife's kin. Traditionally (though nowadays rule is not absolutely true), a Khasi man returns to his Iing-Kur (maternal home) upon the death of his spouse (if she is a Khadduh and they both have no children). These practices are the result of rules governing inheritance and property ownership. These rules are themselves related to the structure of the Khasi Kur (clan system).\n\nKhasi names are known for their originality and elaborate nature. The given names may be invented by parents for their children, and these can be based on traditional native names, Christian names, or other English words. The family names, which they call \"surnames,\" remain typically in the native Khasi language.\n\nThe traditional political structure of the Khasi community is democratic in nature. In the past, the Khasis consisted of independent native states called Syiemships, where male elders of various clans under the leadership of the Chief (called U Syiem) would congregate during Durbars or sessions and come to a decision regarding any dispute or problem that would arise in the Syiemship. At the village level, there exists a similar arrangement where all the residents of the village or town come together under the leadership of an elected Headman (called U Rangbah Shnong), to decide on matters pertaining to the locality. This system of village administration is much like the Panchayati Raj prevalent in most Indian States. There were around 25 independent native states on record which were annexed and acceded to the Indian Union. The Syiems of these native states (called Hima) were traditionally elected by the people or ruling clans of their respective domains. Famous among these Syiemships are Hima Mylliem, Hima Khyrim, Hima Nongkhlaw, amongst others. These Syiemships continue to exist and function till today under the purview of the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council (KHADC), which draws its legal power and authority from the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution of India.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1694777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694777", "title": "Kong Hee", "text": "Kong Hee\n\nKong Hee (; born 23 August 1964) is the founder, and former president and senior pastor of City Harvest Church. and who was convicted of Criminal Breach of Trust in 2015.\n\nFollowing a 2012 arrest and a trial beginning in 2013 into the allegations that Kong and five other church leaders illegally used $24 million of church funds while misusing another $26 million in a cover-up, Kong was found guilty in 2015 as the \"key man\" behind the scandal who had guided his five accomplices by the Singapore court of three charges of criminal breach of trust. He is presently serving his sentence.\n\nKong is also involved in the Christian Charismatic Movement, a philosophy of ministry that emphasises the Great Commandment, the Great Commission and the Cultural Mandate.\n\nKong is the fifth child of Kong Leng, a professional engineer, and Toh Poh-Eng, a diamond trader. From 1975 to 1988, Kong was a member of Marine Parade Christian Centre, an Anglican church located in eastern Singapore. He studied at Raffles Institution (1977–1980), Raffles Junior College (1981–1982) as well as National University of Singapore, Bachelor of Science (Computer & Information Sciences) (1985–1988).\n\nDuring his university years, he worked part-time for the Chapel of the Resurrection under the oversight of Anglican vicar, Reverend Dr. Canon James Wong. During that tenure, he helped Canon Wong set up a new congregation, Orchard Christian Centre. Upon university graduation in 1988, Kong worked a short stint in a local publishing house as a programmer.\n\nIn 1989, Kong was a staff evangelist with \"Christ For Asia\", a missions organisation in the Philippines led by Assemblies of God minister, Reverend Randy Sing. At that same time, there was an opportunity for Kong to pioneer a new church in Singapore. With the support and encouragement of some senior pastors in the city, Kong decided to relocate back to Singapore and helped set up a new congregation with 20 youths.\n\nOn 7 May 1989, City Harvest Church was founded as a department (known as \"Ekklesia Ministry\") of Bethany Christian Centre (Assemblies of God).\n\nFrom 1997, Kong was the executive director of the Festival of Praise, an annual event that brought together churches for united prayer and worship. Kong was a board member of Dr. David Yonggi Cho's Church Growth International (South Korea) and Dr. Luis Bush's Transform World (Indonesia). With and his wife Sun Ho, they once owned two companies, International Harvest and Skin Couture.\n\nIn December 2010, City Harvest Church had an average of 23,256 attendees with 47 affiliate \"Harvest\" churches, as well as 29 affiliate churches and 6 Bible schools in Asia, namely, in Singapore, Australia, Indonesia, Malaysia and Taiwan. Another 18 affiliate churches in the East and West Malaysia are under the Malaysian Harvest Fellowship which Kong Hee has co-founded.\n\nOn 31 May 2010, the Office of the Commissioner of Charities and the Commercial Affairs Department of the Singapore Police began investigating more than 16 individuals linked to City Harvest Church, including church founder Kong Hee and his wife, Sun Ho. The police were looking into financial transactions involving the possible falsification of accounts and criminal breach of trust amounting to millions of dollars which dated back a number of years. The authorities allowed regular church activities and services being continued for the congregation during ongoing investigations.\n\nOn 26 June 2012, the Commissioner of Charities released a press statement detailing the results of its inquiry. It stated that there were misconduct and mismanagement in the administration of City Harvest Church. There were irregularities of at least $23 million in the church's funds, which were used to finance Sun Ho's secular music career. There was also a concerted effort to conceal this movement of funds from stakeholders. Kong Hee and seven others were suspended from their roles in the church.\n\nA subsequent report indicated that the investigations were trigged by complaints made to the authorities.\n\nAlso on 26 June 2012, Kong Hee and four other leaders of City Harvest Church were arrested and charged with misuse of funds. A sixth leader was charged on 25 July 2012. All six accused were granted bail of S$500,000 and had their passports withdrawn.\n\nThe trial of Kong Hee and the five other leaders commenced in May 2013 and was adjourned several times. There was a total of 142 days of hearings.\n\nThe verdicts were announced on 21 October 2015. Kong Hee and the other five leaders were found guilty of all charges.\n\nSentencing was on 20 November 2015. Kong Hee received the heaviest sentence of the six, 8 years in prison. Following a request from the defendants, the judge agreed to defer the start of the sentences until 11 January 2016.\n\nOn 27 November 2015, it was reported that the Attorney General's Chambers has filed appeals against the sentence issued to Kong Hee and the five other defendants, on the grounds that it is \"manifestly inadequate\".\n\nOn 2 December 2015, it was reported that Kong Hee and the other five defendants have also filed appeals.\n\nOn 4 March 2016, it was reported that the appeal hearing would commence on 19 September 2016.\n\nSingapore's ambassador-at-large Bilahari Kausikan posted a warning on Facebook to be wary of Kong Hee after noting that he had made missionary trips to Japanese cities.\n\nOn 7 April 2017, his original sentence of 8 years in prison was reduced to 3.5 years. He has started serving his sentence from the 21 April 2017 onwards. However,in Page 264-267 of the appeal judgment, Kong is characterised as being \"coloured by greed and self-interest\", as the Crossover project was designed to benefit Sun Ho and Kong Hee. Sun Ho's contract with Xtron (a company controlled by Kong Hee) was to entitle Sun to 25% of gross income (estimated to reach US$30M) regardless of project costs, in addition to a large salary. In addition, he had told members they were off-salary and needed financial support. A private fund was set up to raise over $3 million and was fully expended by the couple in just 3 years.\n\nIn March 2010, a blogger identified plagiarism on Kong Hee's 'Daily Devotionals' as they were similar to writings to another publication, \"The Leadership Bible\" which was published 10 years ago. The copied text were published as physical copies into two books, \"Renewing Your Spiritual Energy in 90 Days\" without accreditation to the original authors. Kong Hee's daily devotionals were originally compiled from his personal reading notes and printed as supplementary reading for his members, free of charge. Some years later, due to popular demand overseas, a local publisher compiled and released foreign language translations of the devotional for sale.\n\nKong Hee posted a note on his website and explained that the devotion was \"originally meant only for internal circulation among the members of my church. As such, there was an oversight in not quoting the sources of some portions that borrow from the writings of other Christian authors.\" There was also an apology for the oversight.\n\nThe publisher who is also a member of City Harvest Church, acknowledged that at the time of publication, both himself and Mr Kong were aware that certain portions of the content were not original.\nThe publisher of \"Renewal\" has since made amendments to the soft copies to include accreditation.\n\nKong is married to pop music singer Sun Ho. They have one son, Dayan Kong, who was born in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52259459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52259459", "title": "Le Invasioni Barbariche in Italia", "text": "Le Invasioni Barbariche in Italia\n\nLe Invasioni Barbariche in Italia is Professor Pasquale Villari's popular account of the barbarian invasions of the Roman Empire from the Antonines to the coronation of Charlemagne in 800 A.D. as Holy Roman Emperor. The book was first published in 1901 by Ulrico Hoepli in Milan.\n\nThe book, with 3 maps and about 500 pages, was intended to be easy to read and appealing to the general reader of Italian. Hoepli published the second, third and fourth editions in 1905, 1920 and 1928. In the book, Villari's main focus is on the Teutonic invasions of the 3rd through 6th centuries A.D.\n\nIn 1902 Fisher Unvwin published a 2-volume translation (\"The Barbarian Invasions of Italy\") by Linda Villari, the wife of Pasquale Villari.\n"}
{"id": "38541809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38541809", "title": "Lengo language", "text": "Lengo language\n\nLengo is a Southeast Solomonic language of Guadalcanal.\n\nLengo has 6 vowels (Unger, 2008:5).\nVowel sequences occur commonly for all combinations of\nthese vowels, with the exception of . The front open-mid vowel never occurs in sequence.\n\nLengo has 15 consonants (Unger, 2008:4).\nVoiced stops are prenasalized. Two instances of regional variation in these phonemes have been observed. These are becoming , and becoming .\n\nLengo has five sets of pronominal forms. These are emphatic, subject reference, object, direct possessor, and indirect possessor. These distinguish maximally between four persons (first person inclusive and exclusive, second, and third person), and four numbers (singular, plural, dual, and paucal). There is no grammatical gender distinction, but there is an animacy distinction in the object paradigm. Two further uses of these pronominal forms occur - a reflexive pronoun, and a set of interrogative pronouns (Unger, 2008:27-29).\n\nThe dual and paucal forms are derived from the plural forms by the addition of ko- and tu- respectively.\nThe dual forms are used only to indicate 'two and only two', whilst the plural and paucal forms mean 'two or more' and 'three or more' respectively. First person exclusive excludes the addresse(s).\n\nThe emphatic pronoun in Lengo is optional, and can occur in combination with obligatory pronouns that may occur with subject or object function. It can also appear without other pronouns. It is used to emphasize the semantic role of a noun in a clause (Unger, 2008:29).\n\nExamples:\n\nThe subject reference pronoun appears as the first element in a verb phrase. It is obligatory in any main clause, but can be excepted in subordinate clauses. It is optional in imperative sentences (Unger, 2008:34).\n\nExample:\n\nThe object form in Lengo is identified using a set of pronominal suffixes, which index the object arguments on the verb. In instances where a verb takes both a direct and indirect object, only the indirect object is marked. The third person plural object form is marked for animate or inanimate objects (Unger, 2008:39).\n\nExample:\n\nThe direct possessor form is used for inalienably possessed nouns. It is a suffix on the possessed noun that indicates the possessor. In the case of the dual and paucal forms, number is indicated as a prefix on the noun, and the plural form of the possessive suffix is used (Unger, 2008:42).\n\nThe third person singular direct possessor appears in two forms, with '-a' being more prevalent than '-na' (Unger, 2008:41).\n\nExamples:\n\nThe indirect possessor form is used for alienably possessed nouns. It occurs as a free morpheme preceding the possessed noun. There are two categories distinguished - 'oral consumable' and 'general'. The oral consumable category includes items that are able to be eaten, drunk, or consumed via the mouth, such as tobacco (Unger, 2008:42).\n\nOral Consumable form:\n\nGeneral form:\n\nA reflexive pronoun is composed when a direct possessor suffix is added to the stem 'tibo'. This results in a valency decrease of the verb (Unger, 2008:44).\n\nExamples:\n\nLengo has two pronouns that have interrogative or relative uses. 'thi' is used if the reference is human, and 'tha' if the reference is non-human (Unger, 2008:45).\n\nRelative use:\n\nInterrogative use:\n\n\nUnger, Paul (2008). \"Aspects of Lengo Grammar\", Canada Institute of Linguistics at Trinity Western University. \n"}
{"id": "498076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498076", "title": "List of bondage positions", "text": "List of bondage positions\n\nThis is a list of bondage positions and methods.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3127979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3127979", "title": "List of places where social nudity is practised", "text": "List of places where social nudity is practised\n\nThis is a list of public outdoor clothes-free areas for recreation. Includes free beaches (or clothing-optional beaches or nude beaches), parks, clubs, regional organizations and some resorts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2927275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2927275", "title": "Lotha language", "text": "Lotha language\n\nThe Lotha language is a Sino-Tibetan language of the Ao subgroup spoken by approximately 180,000 people in Wokha district of west-central Nagaland. It is centered in the small district of Wokha (capital Wokha). This district has more than 114 villages such as Pangti, Maraju (Merapani), Englan, Baghty (Pakti) and others, where the language is widely spoken and studied.\n\nAlternate names include Chizima, Choimi, Hlota, Kyong, Lhota, Lotha, Lutha, Miklai, Tsindir, and Tsontsii (\"Ethnologue\").\n\n\"Ethnologue\" lists the following dialects of Lotha.\n\nIn the \"Linguistic Survey of India\", linguist George Abraham Grierson analyzed various branches of languages in India and categorized various Naga languages into three groups: Western Naga, Eastern Naga, and Central Naga. Lotha falls into the Central Naga group, which also includes the languages Ao, Sangtam, and Yimchungru.\n\nLotha is written in the Latin script, introduced by the British and American missionaries in the late 19th century. It is a medium of education up to the post-graduate level in the state of Nagaland. It is also the language in which the church sermons are preached. The Bible has been translated into the Lotha language, adding significantly to its vocabulary, which had an influence of Assamese and Hindi. The language has been carried to all parts of the country by the waves of emigrants.\n\n"}
{"id": "40864470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40864470", "title": "Massachusetts Society for Promoting Agriculture", "text": "Massachusetts Society for Promoting Agriculture\n\nThe Massachusetts Society for Promoting Agriculture (M.S.P.A.) is one of the earliest agricultural societies in the United States. The Society was incorporated by an act of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts on March 7, 1792. The Society's founding members included Samuel Adams, Charles Bulfinch, Timothy Pickering, Benjamin Lincoln, Christopher Gore, and Benjamin Guild.\n\nThe Massachusetts Society for Promoting Agriculture was established to promote the study and experimentation of agricultural endeavors. The M.S.P.A. historically has given handsome premiums to individuals who made useful discoveries in the field and communicated these improvements to the general public.\n\nThe first premiums (prizes) offered by the MSPA were $50 for \"the most satisfactory account of the natural history of the canker-worm\" and $100 for the cheapest and most effective method of eradicating it. Premiums were also offered for the cultivation of wheat and other grains; the improvement of land, including the reclamation of salt marshes; the raising of trees; the greatest stock maintained on the least land; the best vegetable food for wintering stock; the most and best wool from a given number of sheep; the best process for making cider, maple sugar, butter, cheese, flax, and salted provisions; and for the best farm journals, manures, tree plantations, advances in ploughs and ploughing techniques, and farms in general.\n\nIn 1813, the M.S.P.A. began publishing semi-annually the Massachusetts Agricultural Journal, which was discontinued in 1827 when the publication of various weekly farming journals supplanted the need for a semi-annual one.\n\n"}
{"id": "21227881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21227881", "title": "Milko Kos", "text": "Milko Kos\n\nMilko Kos (12 December 1892 – 24 March 1972) was a Slovenian historian, considered the father of the Ljubljana school of historiography.\n\nHe was born in the town of Gorizia (then part of Austro-Hungarian Empire, now in Italy), where his father, the renowned medievalist Franc Kos, taught at the State Gymnasium. His mother was a Friulian from Gorizia and Gradisca. His younger brother Anton Gojmir Kos later became a prominent painter.\n\nHe studied history at the University of Vienna, specializing in the social history of the middle ages. He was an expert on medieval settlement patterns in the Slovene Lands. He also wrote about the social history of medieval towns and issues related to early Slovenian history, including the Slavic principality of Carantania and the Freising manuscripts.\n\nIn 1928, he started teaching at the University of Ljubljana, where he replaced Ljudmil Hauptmann as the head of the chair for Slovene history. In this position, he influenced almost all Slovenian historians of the post-World War II period; most of them graduated under his direct supervision, including Fran Zwitter and Bogo Grafenauer.\n\nBetween 1941 and 1945, Kos served as the chancellor of the University of Ljubljana. During the difficult period of Italian and Nazi German occupation of Slovenia, Kos maintained an underground connection with the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People.\n\nAfter the war, he became a member of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In 1955, he received the Prešeren Award, the highest recognition for cultural achievements in Slovenia, for his work on the land registers in the Slovenian Littoral.\n\nHe died in Ljubljana.\n\nThe Milko Kos Historical Institute of Ljubljana is named after him.\n"}
{"id": "29417291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29417291", "title": "Morena Clara", "text": "Morena Clara\n\n\"This article is about Spanish 1954 film. For 1994 Venezuelan telenovela, see Morena Clara (telenovela)\".\nMorena Clara is a 1954 film directed by Luis Lucia starring Lola Flores and Fernando Fernán Gómez.\n\nThe film begins by depicting the fabled tale of how the gypsies came to be. According to folklore gypsies are descendants of an Egyptian pharaoh. In the film, actors are dressed in ancient Egyptian costumes as they dance to flamenco music. As the story continues, the gypsies are run out of their lands and are forced to live nomadic lives, stealing and thieving as a means to survive. The Monty Pythonesque history lesson then continues to present the protagonists’ ancestors and the scene that drives the rest of the film: Trinidad’s (Lola Flores) ancestor places a spell on Enrique’s (Fernando Fernán Gómez) ancestor that will cause his descendant to fall in madly in love with her descendant.\n\nThe story continues to the present day, that is to say the 1950s, where Trinidad and her uncle Regalito (Miguel Ligero) are charged with stealing six hams from a shop window. This scene presents some of the most entertaining banter in the entire film as Trinidad and Regalito argue their innocence with very matter-of-fact language and mannerisms common to Andalusian gypsies. Their witty mockery, while creating uproars of laughter from the courtroom audience, causes the judges to grow more infuriated with the pair. It is then that Enrique, a lawyer, steps in to defend Trinidad and Regalito. After much deliberation, the two gypsies, after having to pay a fee, are set free.\n\nThe fee they are required to pay forces Trinidad to find employment. Coincidentally, she finds a job as a maid in Seville at the home of Enrique, the lawyer. Instead of dismissing Trinidad, Enrique decides to make her part of an experiment he plans to conduct. His experiment is to see if he can turn Trinidad from a thieving gypsy into a functioning member of Spanish society. He plans to track change in his Pygmalion-like experiment by playing a song and seeing how she reacts to it. The more refined she becomes, the less she should react to the folkloric music. Trinidad’s reaction to Enrique’s statement, while humorous, presents the moral of the story: she tells him that the spirit of a gypsy is something that no one can tame and that, even though she will try because he has asked her to do this for him, it is an impossible task. Fitted with new, modern clothing, Trinidad’s reaction to the music is a romping performance full of beautiful arm movements and earth-shaking stomps. Trinidad’s performance is so spell binding that, not only is Enrique entranced, but her impromptu tune is so catchy that he hums along to it the very next morning.\n\nAs the months go by, Enrique’s experiment grows more futile as Trinidad’s charisma wins him over. As Enrique’s coworker sees how entranced he has become by her, he plots to convince Trinidad to leave with the pretense that Enrique’s career might be jeopardized by her presence in his household. Trinidad instantly decides to leave as the last thing she wants to do is hurt Enrique. She makes the decision to say goodbye to him by performing a song dedicated to him. In an emotionally driven performance, Trinidad performs a powerful rendition of “Te Lo Juro Yo,” quickly leaving as soon as the song is done.\n\nIn the end, Enrique tracks down Trinidad and declares his love for her.\n\n\nMorena Clara, while primarily a comedic movie, deals with issues such as poverty, sexism, socioeconomic discrimination against gypsies, dispelling of the gypsy stereotype, and of course, love.\n"}
{"id": "47035402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47035402", "title": "New York Declaration on Forests", "text": "New York Declaration on Forests\n\nThe New York Declaration on Forests is a voluntary and non-legally binding political declaration which grew out of dialogue among governments, companies and civil society, spurred by the United Nations Secretary-General’s Climate Summit held in New York in 2014.\n\nThe Declaration pledges to halve the rate of deforestation by 2020, to end it by 2030, and to restore hundreds of millions of acres of degraded land. The proposed land restoration is described as covering \"an area larger than India\".\n\nA voluntary Action Agenda accompanies the Declaration, providing \"a guide to governments, companies, and organizations regarding the diverse set of actions that can achieve [the Declaration's] transformational goals\".\n\nA Washington-based consulting firm, Climate Advisers, wrote the draft of the Declaration. It has been signed by 37 governments, 20 sub-national governments, 53 multi-national companies, 16 groups representing indigenous communities and 63 non-government organisations.\n\nThe Declaration has been generally welcomed. The governments of Germany, Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland issued a joint statement strongly supporting the declaration, and committing their governments to \"strengthening existing and creating new partnerships with forest countries designing green growth strategies, with leading private sector companies taking deforestation out of their supply chains, and with the financial sector, civil society and other donor governments to align incentives, transform markets and tip the balance against forest destruction\", along with a financial commitment to fund up to 20 new programmes subject to robust, credible proposals being put forward by developing countries.\n\nSome non-governmental organisations have also highlighted the limitations of the Declaration.\n"}
{"id": "1957129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957129", "title": "Paezan languages", "text": "Paezan languages\n\nPaezan (also Páesan, Paezano, Interandine) may be any of several hypothetical or obsolete language-family proposals of Colombia and Ecuador named after the Paez language.\n\nCurrently, Páez (Nasa Yuwe) is best considered either a language isolate or the only surviving member of an otherwise extinct language family (Adelaar & Muysken 2004, Gordon 2005, Matteson 1972, Fabre 2005). It has often been grouped with other languages in a \"Paezan\" family, but several of these proposals are based on a historical error. Even before the discovery of the error, Campbell (1997: 173) stated, \"There is no consensus upon Paezan, and opinions vary greatly\".\n\nOne of the most often repeated statements (e.g. Loukota 1968; Kaufman 1990, 1994) is the supposed connection between Páez and the extinct Panzaleo (also known as Pansaleo, Latacunga, or Quito), formerly spoken in highlands of Ecuador. However, Panzaleo is poorly documented and the evidence for this relationship is weak and may be from language contact. Thus, Panzaleo may best be considered an unclassified isolate (Adelaar & Muysken 2004: 393-397; Campbell 1997).\n\nThe Andaquí isolate (also extinct) is often connected with Páez in a Paezan grouping. Documentation is a 20-page list of words and expressions by an anonymous author published in 1928 and another word list collected in 1854 by a priest (Manuel María Albis). There are a number of similarities in vocabulary between Andaquí and Páez. In other aspects, the differences are greater.\n\nThe Coconucan languages were first grouped together with Páez by Henri Beuchat & Paul Rivet in 1910 (under a larger \"Chibchan\" family, which is considerably more inclusive than the conservative Chibchan recognized today). Curnow (1998) shows this is based on misinterpretation of a \"Moguex\" vocabulary of Douay (1888), which is a mix of Páez and Guambiano/Totoró. The error has led to subsequent classifiers (e.g. Kaufman 1990, 1994; Campbell 1997; Greenberg 1956, 1987; Tovar & Larruceau de Tovar 1984) to group Páez with Guambiano, missing the obvious identification of Coconucan as Barbacoan.\n\nMatteson's 1972 comparison of Páez and Guambiano vocabularies show just a 5.2% overlap, less than comparisons between Páez and Arawak, Quechua and Proto-Chibchan (respectively 17%, 12%, and 14%). Following linguists such as Matteson (1972), Curnow (1998), Curnow & Liddicoat (1998), and Adelaar & Muysken (2004), the Coconucan languages are now placed under Barbacoan. The question of connections between Páez, Panzaleo, and Andaquí remains open.\n\nJolkesky (2017) argues for a connection, perhaps genetic, with the Otomanguean languages of the Pacific coast of central Mexico, especially with the Zapotecan branch, and for a possible Otomanguean substratum in a couple families neighboring Paez. The proposal has not been peer-reviewed.\n\nPrior to Curnow's correction, the Paez–Coconucan \"family\" had been connected to various other families. Greenberg included Paezan in a \"Macro-Chibchan\" (or \"Chibchan–Paezan\") stock with Barbacoan, Chibchan, Chocoan, Jirajaran, and the isolates Betoi, Kamsá (Sibundoy), Yaruro, Esmeraldeño, Mochica, Cunza (Atacameño), Itonama, and Yurumanguí. Morris Swadesh's \"Paezan\" included Páez, Barbacoan, Coconucan, Andaquí, Cunza, Kapixana, and Mashubí. Kaufman's (1990, 1994) \"Macro-Páesan \"cluster\"\" proposal included \"Paesan\" (as explained above)–Barbacoan, Cunza–Kapixana, Betoi, Itonama, and Warao.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15447892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15447892", "title": "Palestinians in Iraq", "text": "Palestinians in Iraq\n\nPalestinians in Iraq are people of Palestinian ancestry, most of whom have been residing in Iraq after they were expelled from their homeland in 1948. Before 2003, there were approximately 34,000 Palestinians thought to be living in Iraq, mainly concentrated in Baghdad. However, since the 2003 Iraq War, the figure lies between 10,000–13,000, although a precise figure has been hard to determine. The situation of Palestinians in Iraq deteriorated after the fall of Saddam Hussein and particularly following the bombing of the Al-Askari Mosque in 2006. Since then, with the rise in insecurity throughout Iraq, they have been the target of persecution and violence by Shia militants, with militant groups targeting them for preferential treatment they received under the Ba'ath Party rule. Currently, several hundred Palestinians from Iraq are living in border camps, after being refused entry to neighbouring Jordan and Syria. Others have been resettled to third countries.\n\nThe birth of the Palestinian community in modern Iraq dates back to 1948, when the Iraqi army, which had been fighting in Palestine, returned to Baghdad with a group of Palestinians who had been forced to flee their homes in Haifa and Jaffa. In addition, some Palestinian villagers had been forcibly drafted by the invading Iraqi army, and they and their families were allowed to resettle in Iraq. Following the 1967 war with Israel, a second larger wave of Palestinians sought refuge in Iraq. The third and final wave occurred in 1991 after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, when those Palestinians living in Kuwait fled. Over the years, there were also many Palestinians who came to Iraq in search of work. Prior to 2003, there were approximately 25,000 registered Palestinian refugees living in Iraq.\nIn December 2010, approximately 10,000 Palestinians remained in Iraq, the majority of whom were living in and around Baghdad.\n\nIraq is not a signatory of the 1951 Geneva Convention relating to the protection of refugees. Palestinians were never awarded official status by the Iraqi authorities, but were given a degree of protection and assistance by the Iraqi government, guided by the Casablanca Protocol of the League of Arab States in 1965. During Saddam Hussein’s rule, Palestinians received by and large equitable treatment. They were granted residency permits, full access to government services including healthcare and education, and were also permitted to work. The government also issued special travel documents for Palestinian refugees, allowing them to travel freely around Iraq but making it extremely difficult to leave the country. Some political and sectarian entities claim that Palestinians were treated favourably under the Ba'thist regime. The government built special housing complexes, and provided heavily subsidized accommodation for Palestinians. Palestinians were also exempt from military service, and scholarships were also awarded to Palestinian students, enabling them to study at certain universities. During the years of economic sanctions in the 1990s, the Iraqi government froze rent prices, forcing Iraqi landlords to rent their apartments to Palestinians for as little as $1 per month. This was also a cause of resentment among those Iraqis toward Palestinians.\n\nThe Palestinians suffered very much as a result of the UN sanctions on Iraq (1990–2003). Saddam Hussein's Revolution Command Council decided that Palestinians must not be allowed to invest in companies and not be allowed to invest into any kind of entrepreneurial businesses. They had to obtain special permissions to marry Iraqis and Palestinians who had Iraqi mothers could not inherit their mothers. Palestinians were not allowed to live in areas close to international boundaries and were not allowed to work in security sensitive areas. The Palestinians were also trapped inside Iraq because of the UN sanctions did not allow air travel to and from Iraq and because Iraq's neighbours did not allow the Palestinians to enter their countries.\n\nPalestinians were also only allowed to join the regime-backed the Ba'ath Party and were not allowed to join the traditional Palestinian political organisations.\n\nAfter the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime in April 2003, Palestinians in Iraq were subject to discrimination, sectarian violence and ruthless killing by the Iraqi government and various militia groups. Palestinian neighborhoods such as al-Doura, al-Hurriyya and al-Baladiyyat in Baghdad were also bombarded and attacked. A report by the UNHCR in 2007 provided details of the violence and persecution perpetrated against Palestinians in Iraq, which included abductions, attacks, torture by both unknown militia groups and the Iraqi Ministry of the Interior and the deaths of many Palestinian women, men and children.\n\nUnder the newly elected Iraqi government, Palestinians were stripped of their residency permits and made to register at the Ministry of the Interior each month. This has proven extremely dangerous, and the fear of being shot upon entering or leaving the ministry has deterred many Palestinians from obtaining their right to residency in Iraq. In addition, Human Rights Watch reported that Ministry of Interior officials have arbitrarily arrested, beaten, tortured, and in a few cases, forcibly disappeared Palestinian refugees.\n\nAfter the bombing of the Shia Muslim Al-Askari Mosque in the city of Samarra, circumstances of those Palestinians living in Iraq worsened considerably as they became scapegoats, synonymous with \"terrorists\" and \"insurgents\". Human Rights Watch reported that in mid-March, an unknown militia group calling itself the \"Judgment Day Brigades\" distributed leaflets in Palestinian neighborhoods, accusing the Palestinians of collaborating with the insurgents and stating the following: \"We warn that we will eliminate you all if you do not leave this area for good within ten days.\" Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani issued a fatwa in April 2006, forbidding any attacks on Palestinians. However, the mass of killings and death threats put the Palestinian community in a \"state of shock\" and forced thousands to leave the country, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).\n\nAfter 2003, the majority of Palestinians were either killed or fled to the neighbouring countries of Syria and Jordan – neither of which is a signatory to the 1951 Geneva Convention, although each country adheres to the 1965 Casablanca Protocol without reservation. Despite the admirable generosity and hospitality of Syria and Jordan towards thousands of Iraqis, and their large and well-integrated populations of Palestinians, both countries have closed their borders to Palestinians coming from Iraq. As a result, many have been left stranded in squalid conditions within border camps such as Al-Waleed or Al-Karama, both of which are situated in ‘No Man’s Land’ near to the borders shared with Syria and Jordan. Others have had no choice but to return to cities of Baghdad and Mosul. In 2007, UNHCR published ‘Eligibility Guidelines for Assessing the International Protection Needs of Iraqi Asylum-Seekers’, which stated that many Arab refugees (including Palestinians) “…do not hold valid documentation, limiting their freedom of movement, access to services and putting them at risk of detention and possibly refoulement. As such, in adjudicating the refugee claims of individuals who were previously refugees in Iraq, it should be noted that the current situation in Iraq is such that “effective protection” in the country is generally unavailable.”\n\nJordan has the largest number of refugees relative to total population in the world, and is host to the highest number of Palestinian refugees under the mandate of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA). The 1952 Jordanian Constitution does forbid the extradition of ‘political refugees…on account of their political beliefs or their defence of liberty'. Furthermore, the government signed a Memorandum of Understanding with UNHCR in 1998, underlining its agreement to the definition of a refugee and the obligation of non-refoulement. Historically, the Jordanian government has granted full citizenship to the vast majority of Palestinian refugees, while UNRWA administers aid and provides health and education services to those living in refugee camps. Its policies towards Iraqis have been less clear. Currently, the government estimates that 450,000 – 500,000 Iraqis live in Jordan, although only 31,000 of these Iraqis are registered with UNHCR. The regime has followed the principles of Arab hospitality and brotherhood by opening its doors to thousands of Iraqis; yet its policies towards them with regard to provision of basic services have been less clear. Moreover, it has preferred to use ‘visitor’ or ‘guest’ when referring to Iraqis, avoiding the socially and politically loaded term ‘refugee’ and the subsequent need to establish more permanent arrangements, services and solutions that would strain Jordanian infrastructure. The situation for Palestinians from Iraq fleeing to Jordan after 2003 following the invasion of Iraq is yet more difficult. Aside from a few with family connections inside Jordan, the majority of Palestinians were refused entry or free movement inside the country. Thus, many were stranded in No Man’s Land between Iraq and Jordan, or detained in Al-Raweished Camp within Jordan.\n\nAl Ruweished was located in Eastern Jordan, 60 kilometres from the border with Iraq. Over the years, those living in the camp have included Palestinians from Iraq, Iranian Kurds, Somalis and Sudanese. In December 2003, Angelina Jolie visited the camp by helicopter, and kept a journal of her experiences. She reported that most of the 500 residents of al-Ruweished were Palestinians, and over 100 of them were under the age of 16. Living conditions in the camp were extremely difficult, with soaring temperatures during the summer months, and storms during the harsh winters. The UNHCR and local NGOs provided food and assistance to camp residents. However, most children were unable to access education.\n\nSince 2003, more than a thousand people have been resettled to third countries, including 54 Palestinians who were granted asylum in Canada in November 2006, and 107 Palestinians who were accepted by Brazil in 2007. Later, in November that year, the remaining residents (all of whom were Palestinian) were resettled in the states of São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil. There, they were promised rented accommodation, furniture and material aid for up to two years, as moral support from volunteers in the communities, who were to help them with local integration.\n\nThere has been a significant Palestinian presence in Syria since the first arrivals in 1948, as well as several hundred thousand Iraqis in recent years. According to a Fafo report in 2007, “Palestinian refugees have been better integrated into Syrian society than in Jordan” Unlike Jordan, Palestinians living in Syria have not been granted citizenship. Aside from Syrian nationality and the right to vote, Palestinians are entitled to “…the same civil rights and services as those enjoyed by local citizens, and are more socially integrated than Palestinian refugees in any other host country.” Similar to Jordan, Syria has not signed the 1951 Convention, but is party to the 1965 Casablanca Protocol for the protection of Palestinian refugees. The 1973 constitution does not allow for the deportation of refugees because of their 'political principles or defence of freedom', although the government does not have a procedure for granting asylum. The Syrian Ministry of Social Affairs also shares a Memorandum of Understanding with UNHCR, allowing for assistance and cooperation with local organizations to provide aid to refugees.\n\nAfter such a history of providing shelter and services for Palestinian and Iraqi refugees, it is therefore unclear as to why the Syrian government has refused entry to Palestinians coming from Iraq since 2006.\n\nAl-Tanf Camp was a makeshift camp located on the Syrian side of the border with Iraq. It was first opened in 2006, when 389 Iraqi-Palestinians were refused entry by the Syrian authorities. UNHCR representatives envisioned that the camp would be open for a matter of weeks, but weeks turned into years, despite unbearable living standards. Numbers within the camp continued to increase, as those Palestinians from Iraq arriving in Syria using forged documents were discovered by the Syrian authorities. During the period from March 2006 until the day of its closure in 2010, it hosted over 1,300 Iraqi-Palestinians.\n\nLiving conditions in Al-Tanf were extremely grim, with residents exposed to the harsh climate of the desert. Extreme temperatures, sandstorms, strong winds and devastating were endured by residents, as well as infestations of scorpions and vermin. Outbreaks of fire were also a common occurrence in Al Tanf and other camps, due to the highly flammable canvas tents. A pregnant woman was killed there in January 2009, when the tent she was staying in caught fire.\n\nSome residents of the camp established an amateur television network called \"Al Tanf Media Group\", to draw attention to their suffering, and to occupy younger residents of the camp and to provide them with opportunities to acquire skills. Using a computer and a small digital camera, they were able to produce short documentaries and organize screenings within the camp. These films were distributed over the internet, and to delegations from international organizations visiting the camps.\n\nOn 1 February 2010, UNHCR closed the camp and moved the last remaining 60 residents to Al Hol camp, where it was said they would live temporarily before being resettled to third countries.\n\nAl Hol remains open to this day, and is located in the north-eastern province of Hassakeh around 55 km from the city of\nDeir ez-Zor., close to the border with Iraq. The camp first opened in 1991, to cope with the influx of Iraqi refugees from the Gulf War. It reopened in 2005 in response to the Palestinians fleeing Iraq. Currently, there are 45 families living in the camp without news of resettlement in the near future. As a result,UNRWA and UNHCR have begun to work with residents of the camp to provide them with more permanent arrangements. Children of the camp attend school with Syrian children in the nearby village of Al Hol, men grow crops to provide additional food, the UNHCR provides basic education, health and recreational facilities within the camp; and vocational training schemes for women have been established by the International Organization of Migration in partnership with the European Union.\n\nResettlement continues to evade thousands of Iraqi-Palestinians, living as IDPs in Iraq or refugees in squalid border camps. However, there has been progress - particularly for those living in the border camps in Iraq, Syria and Jordan. At the end of 2009, 61 residents of Al-Tanf camp were given permission to settle in Italy, and out of the 1,300 Iraqi-Palestinian residents who had been stranded in the camp, more than 1000 were relocated to third countries; including Belgium, Chile, Finland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. In 2009, the United States also allowed more than a thousand Iraqi Palestinians from camps inside Iraq to be resettled within its borders. This was the largest ever Palestinian refugee resettlement in U.S. history. Critics of the State Department decision to resettle this group of Palestinians objected that they were sympathizers of Saddam Hussein. In December 2009, the united efforts of the not for profit company, Australian Society for Palestinian Iraqi Refugees Emergency (ASPIRE), and Amnesty International-Australia led to the Australian government approving 16 families making up 68 people from Al Hol for humanitarian refugee status. They are now living in Melbourne and Perth.\n\nIn February 2010, the UNHCR pledged to \"continue to advocate a dignified solution for all those Palestinian refugees stranded in camps\". However, as of March 2011, a few thousand Iraqi-Palestinians were thought to be living illegally in Damascus without access to services. Moreover, several hundred Palestinians remained in Al Waleed and Al Hol camps, without immediate hope of resettlement in third countries. In the Summer of 2014 at least 85 Palestinian refugees, mainly from Mosul, took shelter at Khazir IDP camp and later Baharka IDP camp, near Erbil, fleeing the Islamic State in Iraq and Levant during the Northern Iraq Offensive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37206712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37206712", "title": "Papar language", "text": "Papar language\n\nPapar is a minor Austronesian language spoken in Sabah, Malaysia.\n\n"}
{"id": "20415977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20415977", "title": "Patuxet", "text": "Patuxet\n\nThe Patuxet were a Native American band of the Wampanoag tribal confederation. They lived primarily in and around modern-day Plymouth, Massachusetts. The Patuxet have been extinct since 1622.\n\nThe Patuxet were wiped out by a series of plagues that decimated the indigenous peoples of southeastern New England in the second decade of the 17th century. The epidemics which swept across New England and the Canadian Maritimes between 1614 and 1620 were especially devastating to the Wampanoag and neighboring Massachuset, with mortality reaching 100% in many mainland villages. When the Pilgrims landed in 1620, all the Patuxet except Squanto had died. The plagues have been attributed variously to smallpox, leptospirosis, and other diseases.\n\nSome European expedition captains were known to increase profits by capturing natives to sell as slaves. Such was the case when Thomas Hunt kidnapped several Wampanoag in 1614 in order to sell them later in Spain. One of Hunt's captives was a Patuxet named Tisquantum. Tisquantum eventually came to be known as Squanto (a nickname given to him by his friend William Bradford). After Squanto regained his freedom, he was able to work his way to England where he lived for several years, working with a shipbuilder.\n\nHe signed on as an interpreter for a British expedition to Newfoundland. From there Squanto went back to his home, only to discover that, in his absence, epidemics had killed everyone in his village.\n\nSquanto succumbed to \"Indian fever\" in November 1622. With his death, the Patuxet people passed into history.\n\nThe first settlers of Plymouth Colony (modern Plymouth, Massachusetts), sited their colony at the location of a former Patuxet village, named \"Port St. Louis\" (Samuel de Champlain, 1605) or \"Accomack\" (John Smith, 1614). By 1616, the site had been renamed New Plimoth in Smith's \"A Description of New England\" after a suggestion by Prince Charles of England. When the Pilgrim Settlers decided to make their settlement, the land that had been cleared and cultivated by the prior inhabitants (since dead through disease) was a primary reason for the location.\n\nSquanto was instrumental in the survival of the colony of English settlers at Plymouth. Samoset, a Pemaquid (Abenaki) sachem from Maine, introduced himself to the Pilgrims upon their arrival in 1620. Shortly thereafter, he introduced Squanto (presumably because Squanto spoke better English) to the Pilgrims, who had settled at the site of Squanto's former village. From that point onward, Squanto devoted himself to helping the Pilgrims. Whatever his motivations, with great kindness and patience, he taught the English the skills they needed to survive, including how best to cultivate varieties of the Three Sisters: beans, maize and squash.\n\nAlthough Samoset appears to have been important in establishing initial relations with the Pilgrims, Squanto was undoubtedly the main factor in the Pilgrims' survival. In addition, he also served as an intermediary between the Pilgrims and Massasoit, the Grand Sachem of the Wampanoag (original name Ousamequin or \"Yellow Feather\"). As such, he was instrumental in the friendship treaty that the two signed, allowing the settlers to occupy the area around the former Patuxet village. Massasoit honored this treaty until his death in 1661.\n\nIn the fall of 1621, the Plymouth colonists and Wampanoag shared an autumn harvest feast. This three-day celebration involving the entire village and about 90 Wampanoag has been celebrated as a symbol of cooperation and interaction between English colonists and Native Americans. The event later inspired 19th century Americans to establish Thanksgiving as a national holiday in the United States.\nThe harvest celebration took place at the historic site of the Patuxet villages. Squanto's involvement as an intermediary in negotiating the friendship treaty with Massasoit led to the joint feast between the Pilgrims and Wampanoag. This feast was a celebration of the first successful harvest season of the colonists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11692090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11692090", "title": "Peter Rawlinson Award", "text": "Peter Rawlinson Award\n\nThe Peter Rawlinson Award is an annual Australian environment award by the Australian Conservation Foundation consisting of $3000 and a plaque made to individuals who have made an outstanding voluntary contribution to the Australian environment. It commemorates Dr Peter Rawlinson’s contribution as an environmental campaigner and researcher. Rawlinson was an ACF Treasurer and Vice President and a biologist and conservationist who died while doing field work in Indonesia in 1991.\n\n2007 award: won by Aboriginal activist and elder of the Arabunna nation, Kevin Buzzacott for two decades of work highlighting the impacts of uranium mining and promoting a nuclear free Australia.\n\n2006 award: won by Clive Crouch, a grassroots environmentalist from Nhill in Victoria, for his work promoting biodiversity in Victoria's Wimmera region over the last 30 years.\n\n2005 award: won by Louise Morris, who has spent a decade campaigning tirelessly against uranium mining and for forest protection in the South West of Western Australia to 2001, then in Tasmania. She is one of the \"Gunns 20\" activists being sued by wood chipping and timber company Gunns Limited.\n\n2004 award:\n\n2003 award: won by Nina Brown, known locally in Coober Pedy as Greenie Mula, an Irati Wanti campaign co-ordinator for the Kupa Piti Kungka Tjuta and giving them media and communications assistance to help defeat a nuclear waste dump proposal in South Australia.\n\n2002 award:\n\n2001 award: won by Dailan Pugh and John Corkill for their contribution to the North East Forest Alliance of New South Wales.\n"}
{"id": "45246728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45246728", "title": "Phongset language", "text": "Phongset language\n\nPhongset (\"\") is a Loloish language of Phongsaly Province, northern Laos.\n\nIn Phongsaly Province, Laos, Phongset is spoken in Phongset village, Bun Neua District (Shintani 2001).\n\n"}
{"id": "7803080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7803080", "title": "Queensland Ornithological Society Inc", "text": "Queensland Ornithological Society Inc\n\nThe Queensland Ornithological Society Inc (QOSI), also known as Birds Queensland, was founded on 15 October 1969 when the Queensland branch of the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union (RAOU) became defunct following drastic reform within the RAOU in the late 1960s. The founding President was J.D. Macdonald. It publishes a quarterly journal, \"Sunbird\", as well as a monthly newsletter, \"Queensland Bird Notes\". Its aims are “to promote the scientific study and conservation of birds by all means possible, with particular reference to the birds of Queensland”. For its members it holds monthly meetings in Brisbane as well as regular field excursions and campouts. The logo of Birds Queensland is the yellow-bellied sunbird, a species whose Australian range lies entirely within Queensland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2633364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2633364", "title": "Registered office", "text": "Registered office\n\nA registered office is the official address of an incorporated company, association or any other legal entity. Generally it will form part of the public record and is required in most countries where the registered organization or legal entity is incorporated. A registered physical office address is required for incorporated organizations to receive official correspondence and formal notices from government departments, investors, banks, shareholders and the general public.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and many other common law countries, the registered office address does not have to be where the organization conducts its actual business or trade, and it is not unusual for law firms, accountants or incorporation agents to provide the official registered office address service. In the United Kingdom all statutory correspondence for an incorporated organization (e.g. formal notices, service of process, tax and government communications) is posted or hand delivered to the registered office address as recorded on the Companies House register. A registered physical office address is required for incorporated organizations to receive official correspondence and formal notices from government departments, investors, banks, shareholders and the general public.\n\nUnder regulations implemented in the UK on 1 October 2009, company directors may now also use a registered office address instead of their private home address for contact on the Companies House register.\n\nThe company's full registered name must be visible to the public on the premises. The Company's records previously had to be kept at the registered office and available for public inspection. Since 1 October 2009 it has been possible for companies to designate a single alternative inspection location (SAIL) as a place to keep their records which must be available for public inspection.\n\nIn many other countries the address with which a company is registered must be where its headquarters or seat is located, and this will often determine the subnational registry at which the company must be registered.\n\n"}
{"id": "48879840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48879840", "title": "Rose of the Wilderness", "text": "Rose of the Wilderness\n\nRose of the Wilderness (German:Die Rose der Wildnis) is a 1918 German silent film directed by Walter Schmidthässler and starring Asta Nielsen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2973926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2973926", "title": "Smoking gun", "text": "Smoking gun\n\nThe term \"smoking gun\" is a reference to an object or fact that serves as conclusive evidence of a crime or similar act, just short of being caught \"in flagrante delicto\". \"Smoking gun\" refers to the strongest kind of circumstantial evidence, as opposed to direct evidence. Direct evidence would include the entire action: Pulling the trigger, firing the gun, and the victim falling. \n\nThe phrase originally came from the idea that finding a very recently fired (hence smoking) gun on the person of a suspect wanted for shooting someone, which in that situation would be nearly unshakable proof of having committed the crime. The phrase originated in the Sherlock Holmes story, \"The Adventure of the Gloria Scott\" (1893).\n\nIn addition to this, its meaning has evolved in uses completely unrelated to criminal activity: for example, scientific evidence that is highly suggestive in favor of a particular hypothesis is sometimes called \"smoking gun evidence\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1009423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1009423", "title": "Talysh people", "text": "Talysh people\n\nTalysh (also Talishi, Taleshi or Talyshi) are an Iranian ethnic group indigenous to a region shared between Azerbaijan and Iran which spans the South Caucasus and the southwestern shore of the Caspian Sea. They speak the Talysh language, one of the Northwestern Iranian languages. It is spoken in the northern regions of the Iranian provinces of Gilan and Ardabil and the southern parts of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Northern Talysh (the part in the Republic of Azerbaijan) was historically known as Talish-i Gushtasbi. In Iran there is a Talesh County in Gilan.\n\nThe Talishis generally identify themselves with the ancient Cadusians, who inhabited the area to the southwest of Caspian Sea, bounded on the north by Kura River, including modern provinces of Ardabil and Gilan. The name \"Talishi\" may be etymologically related to Cadusi, which has influenced the name of the Caspian and Caucasus.\n\nTalysh has two major mutually intelligible dialects – Northern (in Azerbaijan and Iran), and Southern (in Iran). Azerbaijani is used as the literary language in Azerbaijan and Persian in Iran.\n\nWith regards to their NRY-Y-DNA haplogroups, the Talysh show salient Near-Eastern affinities, with haplogroup J2, associated with the advent and diffusion of agriculture in the neolithic Near East, found in over 25% of the sample. Another patriline, haplogroup R1, is also seen to range from 1/4 to up to 1/2, while R1a1, a marker associated with Eastern Indo-European, which includes Indo-Iranian peoples of Central/South Eurasia, only reaches to under 5%, along with haplogroup G.\n\nThere are no statistical data on the numbers of Talysh-speakers in Iran, but estimates show their number to be around 1 million. Talysh nationalists claim that the number of Talysh in Azerbaijan is around 835,000. The number of Talysh speakers in 2003 was estimated to be at least 400,000 in the Republic of Azerbaijan. According to the official 1999 census of the Republic of Azerbaijan, whose figures are in dispute by Talysh nationalists, the number of Talysh people in the Republic of Azerbaijan was 76,000. According to some sources, the Azerbaijani government has also implemented a policy of forceful integration of all minorities, including Talysh, Tat, and Lezgins. However, in a view of Hema Kotecha \"the attitude towards any separatist tendencies seems predominantly negative\" among Talyshs. According to Swedish scholar on Eurasia Svante E. Cornell:\n\nAccording to the Russian Imperial Census of 1897 there were 34,994 Talysh in Baku Governorate.\n\nAccording to a 1926 census, there were 77,039 Talysh in Azerbaijan SSR. From 1959 to 1989, the Talysh were not included as a separate ethnic group in any census, but rather they were included as part of the Turkic-speaking Azerbaijanis, although the Talysh speak an Iranian language. In 1999, the Azerbaijani government claimed there were only 76,800 Talysh in Azerbaijan, but this is believed to be an under-representation given the problems with registering as a Talysh. Some claim that the population of the Talysh inhabiting the southern regions of Azerbaijan is 600,000. Talysh nationalists have always asserted that the number of Talysh in Azerbaijan is substantially higher than the official statistics.\n\nObtaining accurate statistics is difficult, due to the unavailability of reliable sources, intermarriage, and the decline of the Talysh language. and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty have voiced their concerns about the arrest of Novruzali Mamedov, Chairman of the Talysh Cultural Centre and editor-in-chief of the \"Tolyshi Sado\" newspaper.\n\nAccording to a U.S. government interview with Khilal Mamedov, a Talysh rights activist, Mr. Mamedov: “Accused the Azerbaijani leadership of Turkic nationalism and of seeking to suppress non-Turkic minorities…. He said the Azerbaijani leadership seeks to minimize contacts between the Talysh communities in Azerbaijan and Iran and to run Azerbaijan into a monoethnic state.”\n\nIn the early Soviet period, there were Talysh high schools, a newspaper called \"Red Talysh\", and several Talysh language books published, but by end of the 1930s these schools were closed and the Talysh identity was not acknowledged in official statistics, with the Talysh being classified as \"Azerbaijani\".\n\nAccording to Russian historian and ethnologist Victor Schnirelmann,\n\nHistorical repression of identity and the inability to practice their culture and language has led the Talysh to an internalized self repression. This makes it hard to gauge support for any type of Talysh movement. According to Hema Kotecha, many Talysh fear being associated with the separatist Talysh-Mughan Autonomous Republic, with Russia, or with Armenia if they acknowledge or attempt to talk about their beliefs in the public sphere. For instance, a school in Lerik wanted to invite a poet from Lenkoran to a party in his honor and to speak to children; the headmaster was told that he would be dismissed if the event went ahead. The fear of the police is another factor to this silence, although support for a secular democracy and shared Azerbaijani-Talysh feelings towards Nagorno-Karabakh contribute as well. The Talesh population is declining; the language is on its way to extinction within 25–35 years, as its very often not passed on to children. Young Talesh people more frequently use Persian or Azerbaijani in their communities.\n\n, Ismail Shabanov was the president of the Talysh diaspora of Russia.\n\nThe National Talysh Movement (NTM) was formally created in 2007 by Talysh leaders exiled in the Netherlands. The members of the organization include those who were in support of the Talysh-Mughan Autonomous Republic such as Alikram Hummatov, the self-proclaimed president of Talysh-Mughan. The movements favors an autonomous region within Azerbaijan. It also demands the promotion of democratic, cultural, and linguistic rights of all minorities within Azerbaijan.\n\n"}
{"id": "48596712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48596712", "title": "The National German Sustainability Award", "text": "The National German Sustainability Award\n\nThe German Sustainability Award was established in 2008 to encourage the acceptance of social and ecological responsibility and to identify role models in this area. The award is endorsed by the German Federal Government, local and business associations as well as numerous NGOs, among them UNESCO and UNICEF. The awards are presented to cities, companies and individuals promoting the idea of a sustainable society by Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel or other members of her cabinet. Responsible for the award is the foundation Deutscher Nachhaltigkeitspreis e.V.\n\nThe German Sustainability Award includes the categories companies, products, municipalities (since 2012), research (since 2012), building (since 2013) and next economy (since 2016). Each category includes more than one award, for example includes die categories companies award for SMEs, medium-big and big companies. \n\n"}
{"id": "53877708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53877708", "title": "Tono Maria", "text": "Tono Maria\n\nTono Maria also known as the “Venus of South America” was another woman, similar to Sarah Baartman’s case, that was exhibited in the “London shows” or freak shows in the 1800s. Tono Maria, a Botocudo (derived from the Portuguese word, botoque for plug) woman from the South American region (now the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais) was known for her scars, social codes that signified her sexual transgressions, her full figure and large lip and ear plugs. Tono Maria’s features fascinated the London spectators and further fueled their studies in scientific racism and western superiority.\n\nTono Maria was displayed in a London freak show, and described in an 1822 article called the “Sketches of Society: The Shows of London” as the Venus of South America whose “charms are reputed to have been irresistible in her native land in which she made conquest of no fewer than three chieftains in succession.\" She is described at the time as being \"about forty years of age\". \n\nAuthor Janell Hobson briefly recounts Tono Maria in her memoir, \"Venus in the Dark\", and describes how the London spectators viewed her nearly 100 scars, each supposedly representing a sexual transgression committed in her own tribe, as a social stigma, a mark of excess sexuality representing how nonwhites were \"openly licentious, debauched, and depraved” in comparison with European white women who were considered “pure” and “refined”. Author Rosemarie Garland Thompson mentions Tono Maria in her book, \"Extraordinary Bodies\", as a spectacle that “confirmed the Englishman’s sense of physical mastery” and was seen as a cautionary tale of female sexual appetite. \n"}
{"id": "7660235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7660235", "title": "Tuladhar", "text": "Tuladhar\n\nTulādhar (Devanagari: तुलाधर) is a Nepalese caste from the Newar community of the Kathmandu Valley in Nepal. The name Tuladhar is derived from the Sanskrit words \"tula\" (weighing scale) and \"dhar\" (possessor), thus meaning scale-bearer or in general, merchant. Tuladhars belong to the Uray group which includes Kansakar, Tamrakar, Sthapit, Bania, Sindurakar, Selalik and other castes. They follow Newar Buddhism and speak Nepal Bhasa as a mother tongue.\n\nTraditional Tuladhar neighborhoods are Asan ( ), Nyata () (also known as Naradevi) and Jhwa Baha in Kathmandu where they hold a number of cultural performances annually including religious dances and music concerts.\n\nAccording to the division of labor laid down from ancient times in Newar society, business is the traditional occupation of Tuladhars. They are best known for their history as trans-Himalayan traders conducting trade between Nepal, India and Tibet. From centuries past, they have maintained business houses in Lhasa, Shigatse, Gyantse and other towns in Tibet and in Kalimpong and Kolkata in India moving goods by mule caravan over the Himalayan passes.\n\nThe merchants used two trade routes to travel to Tibet. One went north from Kathmandu and crossed the Himalaya at Kuti (now known as Nyalam) or Kyirong, also spelt Gyirong. The other route started at Kalimpong and passed through Nathula or Jelepla on the Sikkim-Tibet border. These trade routes are offshoots of the ancient Silk Road.\n\nTextiles and other factory products were the main exports to Tibet while they brought back wool, musk pods, hides and yak tails. This traditional business came to an end in the mid-1960s after the route through Sikkim was shut down following the 1962 Sino-Indian War, and all the Tuladhar traders returned home. In the course of conducting trade, they have been a cultural bridge between South and Central Asia. Today, while they are still primarily merchants, many pursue varied professions.\n\nTuladhars observe an annual schedule of religious performances, devotional musical concerts and hymn singing sessions that are conducted at the community level. Among the prominent street performances are the Dāpā Thāyegu, Gunla Bajan Thāyegu and Bahidyah Bwayegu festivals.\n\nThe month-long Dāpā Thāyegu festival is held in October when they gather to sing hymns every evening. A picture of a sacred jar made of wheat, popcorn and black soybean is displayed at Asan to mark the end of the festival.\n\nDuring Gunlā, the tenth month in the Nepal Sambat calendar corresponding to August which is held holy by Newar Buddhists, a musical procession goes to Swayambhu daily in the early morning playing Gunlā Bājan music.\n\nThe Bahidyah Bwayegu festival is held in August when a procession of musicians playing Gunla Bajan music and followers make a tour of sacred courtyards in Kathmandu where statues of Dipankara Buddha and paubhas are put on exhibition.\n\nAsan Pāyā (असं पाया) is part of the Mohani festival in October when a sword procession is held at Asan. The ceremony ends with the participants chopping up a gourd painted with the face of a demon.\n\nTuladhars from Asan and Nyata accompany their respective musical bands and take part in the parade organized to celebrate New Year's Day of Nepal Sambat, the national lunar calendar of Nepal, which falls in October.\n\nDuring the twelve-yearly Samyak festival, the greatest Newar Buddhist celebration where hundreds of large images of Dīpankara Buddha are displayed at Kathmandu Durbar Square and Swayambhu, the Tuladhars of Asan place leaf plates and the Tuladhars of Nyata serve boiled rice to the priests who come to receive alms.\n\nSacred dances are another major religious performance of the Tuladhars.\n\n\nReligion\n\nSocial Work\n\nArts and Sciences\n\nTrade and Industry\n\nPolitics\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3276855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3276855", "title": "Vegan Prisoners Support Group", "text": "Vegan Prisoners Support Group\n\nThe Vegan Prisoners Support Group (VPSG) is an organization based in the United Kingdom that provides support for vegans in prison, primarily vegans who are imprisoned for crimes of conscience, but offers help to any genuine vegan in prison. There are around 800 vegans in British jails at any given time.\n\nThe VPSG is purely concerned with ensuring vegans in prison have access to suitable food, clothing and toiletries.\n\nThe group was founded in April 1994 by Jo-Ann Brown.\n\nSince 1994, VPSG's work has grown, and it has been called upon to advise the prisons ombudsman on disputes between prisoners and the prison service relating to vegan diets. The group succeeded in 2009 in obtaining for prisoners the right to place mail orders for vegan products from healthfood stores.\n\n"}
{"id": "2024723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024723", "title": "West-Veluws dialect", "text": "West-Veluws dialect\n\nWest-Veluws is a Veluws dialect from the Dutch province of Gelderland. This dialect is spoken in different villages on the west side of the Veluwe and some villages on border of Gelderland and Utrecht (Bunschoten, Scherpenzeel et cetera). Sometimes even the dialect of Huizen in North Holland is seen as West-Veluws (but mostly as Hollandic).\n\nThere is a 'dictionary' (more like a theme book with the local Veluws translations of Dutch words).\n\nThe whole project is expected to be put online by 2010.\n\nWest-Veluws is a variety which lies between Low Franconian and Low Saxon. West-Veluws does however belong to Low Saxon because of its grammar, typical Low Saxon vocabulary and history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40956415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40956415", "title": "Women in Andorra", "text": "Women in Andorra\n\nLegally, women in Andorra have equal rights under the laws of the Principality of Andorra. Politically, Andorran women won 15 seats during their country's parliamentary election of 2011; for this reason, Andorra became the first nation in Europe and the second country internationally to have elected a \"majority female legislature\". \n\nAmong the problems that confront Andorran women at present are the existence of violence against them, the absence of government departments that deal with issues about women, and the non-existence of shelters for battered women that are managed by the government of Andorra. Andorra was slow to give women legal rights: women's suffrage was achieved only in 1970. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "309187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309187", "title": "Women in ancient Rome", "text": "Women in ancient Rome\n\nFreeborn women in ancient Rome were citizens (\"cives\"), but could not vote or hold political office. Because of their limited public role, women are named less frequently than men by Roman historians. But while Roman women held no direct political power, those from wealthy or powerful families could and did exert influence through private negotiations. Exceptional women who left an undeniable mark on history range from Lucretia and Claudia Quinta, whose stories took on mythic significance; fierce Republican-era women such as Cornelia, mother of the Gracchi, and Fulvia, who commanded an army and issued coins bearing her image; women of the Julio-Claudian dynasty, most prominently Livia (58 BC-AD 29), who contributed to the formation of Imperial \"mores\"; and the empress Helena (250–330 AD), a driving force in promoting Christianity.\n\nAs is the case with male members of society, elite women and their politically significant deeds eclipse those of lower status in the historical record. Inscriptions and especially epitaphs document the names of a wide range of women throughout the Roman Empire, but often tell little else about them. Some vivid snapshots of daily life are preserved in Latin literary genres such as comedy, satire, and poetry, particularly the poems of Catullus and Ovid, which offer glimpses of women in Roman dining rooms and boudoirs, at sporting and theatrical events, shopping, putting on makeup, practicing magic, worrying about pregnancy — all, however, through male eyes. The published letters of Cicero, for instance, reveal informally how the self-proclaimed great man interacted on the domestic front with his wife Terentia and daughter Tullia, as his speeches demonstrate through disparagement the various ways Roman women could enjoy a free-spirited sexual and social life.\n\nThe one major public role reserved solely for women was in the sphere of religion: the priestly office of the Vestals. Freed of any obligation to marry or have children, the Vestals devoted themselves to the study and correct observance of rituals which were deemed necessary for the security and survival of Rome but which could not be performed by the male colleges of priests.\n\nChildhood and upbringing in ancient Rome were determined by social status, wealth and gender. Roman children played a number of games, and their toys are known from archaeology and literary sources. Animal figures were popular, and some children kept live animals and birds as pets. In Roman art, girls are shown playing many of the same games as boys, such as ball, hoop-rolling, and knucklebones. Dolls are sometimes found in the tombs of those who died before adulthood. The figures are typically 15–16 cm tall, with jointed limbs, and made of materials such as wood, terracotta, and especially bone and ivory. Girls coming of age dedicated their dolls to Diana, the goddess most concerned with girlhood, or to Venus when they were preparing for marriage. Noble girls were known to marry as young as 12 years of age, whereas females in the lower classes were more likely to marry slightly further into their teenage years. An example of the marriage age of noble females can be seen with Cicero's lifelong friend Atticus, who married his daughter Caecilia Attica to Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa when she was 14.\nGirls were expected to safeguard their chastity, modesty and reputation, in preparation for eventual marriage. The light regulation of marriage by the law with regards to minimum age (12) and consent to marriage was designed to leave families, primarily fathers, with much freedom to propel girls into marriage whenever and with whomever they saw fit. Marriage facilitated a partnership between the father and prospective husbands, and enabled the formation of a mutually beneficial alliance with both political and economic incentives at heart. The social regime, geared towards early marriage and implemented through children's education and upbringing, was particularly restrictive for girls. Some, perhaps many, girls went to a public primary school, however there is some evidence to suggest that girls’ education was limited to this elementary school level. It has been inferred that individual school tutoring of girls at home was led by concerns about threats to girls’ modesty in coeducational classrooms. Ovid and Martial imply that boys and girls were educated either together or similarly, and Livy takes it for granted that the daughter of a centurion would be in school. However many other historians and philosophers, such as Epictetus, suggest that the educational system, particularly rhetorical training, was preoccupied with the development of masculine virtue; with male teenagers performing school exercises in public speaking about Roman values.\n\nChildren of both genders learned to behave socially by attending dinner parties or other, less elitist events. Both genders participated in religious festivals; for example, at the Secular Games of 17 BC, the \"Carmen Saeculare\" was sung by a choir of girls and boys. Children were made into virtuous adults through scholastic means, with curriculum, language, literature, and philosophy teaching moral precepts. Children of the elite were taught Greek as well as Latin from an early age. Among the upper classes, women seem to have been well-educated, some highly so, and were sometimes praised by the male historians for their learning and cultivation. Some women became socially prominent, and even relatively independent. Cornelia Metella, the young wife of Pompey the Great at the time of his death, was distinguished for her musicianship and her knowledge of geometry, literature, and philosophy. This degree of learning indicates formal preparation, however among the lower classes education was limited and strongly geared towards the course of marriage, and performing the tasks of the female within the household. Elite families poured money into their daughters literary and virtue training to equip them with skills that would appeal to prospective husbands. Epictetus suggests that at the age of 14, girls were considered to be on the brink of womanhood, and beginning to understand the inevitability of their future role as wives. They learned modesty through explicit instruction and upbringing.\n\nThe lives of boys and girls began to diverge dramatically after they formally came of age, and memorials to women recognize their domestic qualities far more often than intellectual achievements. The skills a Roman matron needed to run a household required training, and mothers probably passed on their knowledge to their daughters in a manner appropriate to their station in life, given the emphasis in Roman society on traditionalism. Virginity and sexual purity was a culturally valued quality, and considered vital for the stability of both family and state. The rape of an unmarried girl posed a threat to her reputation and marriageability, and the penalty of death was sometimes imposed on the unchaste daughter. The Emperor Augustus introduced marriage legislation, the Lex Papia Poppaea, which rewarded marriage and childbearing. The legislation also imposed penalties on young persons who failed to marry and on those who committed adultery. Therefore, marriage and childbearing was made law between the ages of twenty-five and sixty for men, and twenty and fifty for women.\n\nBoth daughters and sons were subject to \"patria potestas\", the power wielded by their father as head of household (\"familia\"). A Roman household was considered a collective (\"corpus\", a \"body\") over which the \"pater familias\" had mastery (\"dominium\"). Slaves, who had no legal standing, were part of the household as property. In the early Empire, the legal standing of daughters differed little if at all from that of sons. If the father died without a will, the right of a daughter to share in the family property was equal to that of a son, though legislation in the 2nd century BCE had attempted to limit this right. Even apart from legal status, daughters seem no less esteemed within the Roman family than sons, though sons were expected to ensure family standing by following their fathers into public life.\nThe \"pater familias\" had the right and duty to find a husband for his daughter, and first marriages were normally arranged. Technically, the couple had to be old enough to consent, but the age of consent was 12 for girls and 14 for boys, though in practice boys seem to have been on average five years older. Among the elite, 14 was the age of transition from childhood to adolescence, but a betrothal might be arranged for political reasons when the couple were too young to marry, and in general noble women married younger than women of the lower classes. Most Roman women would have married in their late teens to early twenties. An aristocratic girl was expected to be a virgin when she married, as her young age might indicate. A daughter could legitimately refuse a match made by her parents only by showing that the proposed husband was of bad character.\n\nIn the early Republic, the bride became subject to her husband's \"potestas\", but to a lesser degree than their children. By the early Empire, however, a daughter's legal relationship to her father remained unchanged when she married, even though she moved into her husband's home. This arrangement was one of the factors in the degree of independence Roman women enjoyed relative to those of many other ancient cultures and up to the early modern period: although she had to answer to her father legally, she didn't conduct her daily life under his direct scrutiny, and her husband had no legal power over her.\n\nA daughter was expected to be deferential toward her father and to remain loyal to him, even if it meant having to differ with her husbands. \"Deference\" was not always absolute. After arranging his daughter's first two marriages, Cicero disapproved — rightly, as it turned out — of her choice to marry the unreliable Dolabella, but found himself unable to prevent it.\n\nA daughter kept her own family name (\"nomen\") for life, not assuming that of her husband. Children usually took the father's name. In the Imperial period, however, children might sometimes make their mother's family name part of theirs, or even adopt it instead.\n\nFrom the start of the Roman republic, there was a high emphasis placed on a woman's virginity. Pudicitia (chastity) was a goddess of feminine purity, and was worshipped by Roman women. Only those who were virgins were allowed to enter the temple. A woman's sexual life began with the consummation of her marriage in her husband's cubiculum, or private room where slaves did not enter. In Roman houses it was common for men and women to each have their own cubicula, allowing potential for them to engage in sex lives separate from each other. While it was expected that women should only have sexual relations with their husbands, it was common for men to have many sexual partners throughout his life. After marriage, women were scrutinized in the household to prevent any adulterous behavior. For example, Julius Caesar's first wife, Pompeia, highlights this point well as she attempted to have private relations with Publius Clodius. Julius Caesar's mother, Aurelia, monitored Pompeia's actions and prevented their private meetings. The mere possibility of Pompeia committing adultery caused Caesar to divorce her.\n\nThe obsession with a woman's purity, and her role as a faithful wife and dutiful mother in the family increased during the reign of Augustus. This general campaign to improve family dynamics began in 18–17 BC. Augustus' new laws targeted both men and women between the ages of 20-55, who were rewarded for being in healthy relationships, and punished if not married and without children. Additionally, Augustus enforced the divorce and punishment of adulterous wives. Women under his rule could be punished in the courts for adultery and banished. This shifted a woman's body and relationships from being private, to become a public matter that could be regulated. Therefore, the palace was secured and driven by this idea that women would be returned to their proper places as chaste wives and mothers, and thus household order would be restored. Augustus went so far as to punish and exile his own daughter, Julia, for engaging in extramarrital affairs.\n\nAlthough the rights and status of women in the earliest period of Roman history were more restricted than in the late Republic and Empire, as early as the 5th century BC, Roman women could own land, write their own wills, and appear in court. The historian Valerius Maximus devotes a section of his work \"On Memorable Deeds and Speeches\" to women who conducted cases on their own behalf, or on behalf of others. These women showed ability as orators in the courtroom, even though oratory was considered a defining pursuit of the most ambitious Roman men. One of these, Maesia Sentinas, is identified by her origin in the town of Sentinum, and not, as was customary, by her relation to a man. The independent Maesia spoke in her own defense, and was acquitted almost unanimously after only a short trial because she spoke with such strength and effectiveness. Since these characteristics were considered masculine, however, the historian opined that under her feminine appearance, she had a \"virile spirit,\" and thereafter she was called \"the Androgyne.\"\nMaesia's ability to present a case \"methodically and vigorously\" suggests that while women didn't plead regularly in open court, they had experience in private declamation and family court. Afrania, the wife of a senator during the time of Sulla, appeared so frequently before the praetor who presided over the court, even though she had male advocates who could have spoken for her, that she was accused of \"calumnia\", malicious prosecution. An edict was consequently enacted that prohibited women from bringing claims on behalf of others, on the grounds that it jeopardized their \"pudicitia\", the modesty appropriate to one's station. It has been noted that while women were often impugned for their feeblemindedness and ignorance of the law, and thus in need of protection by male advocates, in reality actions were taken to restrict their influence and effectiveness. Despite this specific restriction, there are numerous examples of women taking informed actions in legal matters in the Late Republic and Principate, including dictating legal strategy to their advocate behind the scenes.\n\nAn emancipated woman legally became \"sui iuris\", or her own person, and could own property and dispose of it as she saw fit. If a \"pater familias\" died intestate, the law required the equal division of his estate amongst his children, regardless of their age and sex. A will that did otherwise, or emancipated any family member without due process of law, could be challenged. From the late Republic onward, a woman who inherited a share equal with her brothers would have been independent of agnatic control.\n\nAs in the case of minors, an emancipated woman had a legal guardian (\"tutor\") appointed to her. She retained her powers of administration, however, and the guardian's main if not sole purpose was to give formal consent to actions. The guardian had no say in her private life, and a woman \"sui iuris\" could marry as she pleased. A woman also had certain avenues of recourse if she wished to replace an obstructive tutor. Under Augustus, a woman who had gained the \"ius liberorum\", the legal right to certain privileges after bearing three children, was also released from guardianship, and the emperor Claudius banned agnatic guardianship. The role of guardianship as a legal institution gradually diminished, and by the 2nd century CE the jurist Gaius said he saw no reason for it. The Christianization of the Empire, beginning with the conversion of the Emperor Constantine in the early 4th century, eventually had consequences for the legal status of women.\n\nFamily tomb inscriptions of respectable Romans suggest that the ideal Roman marriage was one of mutual loyalty, in which husband and wife shared interests, activities, and property.\n\nIn the earliest period of the Roman Republic, a bride passed from her father's control into the \"hand\" \"(manus)\" of her husband. She then became subject to her husband's \"potestas\", though to a lesser degree than their children. In the earliest periods of Roman history, Manus Marriage meant that a married woman would be subjugated by her husband, but that custom had died out by the 1st century BCE, in favor of Free Marriage which did not grant a husband any rights over his wife or have any changing effect on a woman's status. During the classical era of Roman law, marriage required no ceremony, but only a mutual will and agreement to live together in harmony. Marriage ceremonies, contracts, and other formalities were meant only to prove that a couple had, in fact, married. Under early or archaic Roman law, marriages were of three kinds: \"confarreatio\", symbolized by the sharing of bread (\"panis farreus\"); \"coemptio\", \"by purchase\"; and \"usus\", by mutual cohabitation. Patricians always married by \"confarreatio\", while plebeians married by the latter two kinds. In marriage by \"usus\", if a woman was absent for three consecutive nights at least once a year, she would avoid her husband establishing legal control over her. This differed from the Athenian custom of arranged marriage and sequestered wives who were not supposed to walk in the street unescorted.\n\nThe form of marriage known as \"manus\" was the norm in the early Republic, but became less frequent thereafter. Under this early form of marriage, the bride passed into the \"hand\" (\"manus\") of her husband; that is, she was transferred from the \"potestas\" of her father to that of her husband. Her dowry, any inheritance rights transferred through her marriage, and any property acquired by her after marriage belonged to him. Husbands could divorce on grounds of adultery, and a few cases of divorce for a wife's infertility are recorded. \"Manus\" marriage was an unequal relationship; it changed a woman’s intestate heirs from her siblings to her children, not because she was their mother, but because in law her position was the same as that of a daughter to her husband. Under \"manus\", women were expected to obey their husbands in almost all aspects of their lives.\n\nThis archaic form of \"manus\" marriage was largely abandoned by the time of Julius Caesar, when a woman remained under her father's authority by law even when she moved into her husband's home. This arrangement was one of the factors in the independence Roman women enjoyed relative to those of many other ancient cultures and up to the modern period: So-called \"free\" marriage caused no change in personal status for either the wife or the husband. Free marriage usually involved two citizens, or a citizen and a person who held Latin rights, and in the later Imperial period and with official permission, soldier-citizens and non-citizens. In a free marriage a bride brought a dowry to the husband: if the marriage ended with no cause of adultery he returned most of it. So total was the law's separation of property that gifts between spouses were not recognized as such; if a couple divorced or even lived apart, the giver could reclaim the gift.\n\nDivorce was a legal but relatively informal affair which mainly involved a wife leaving her husband’s house and taking back her dowry. According to the historian Valerius Maximus, divorces were taking place by 604 BCE or earlier, and the law code as embodied in the mid-5th century BCE by the Twelve Tables provides for divorce. Divorce was socially acceptable if carried out within social norms (\"mos maiorum\"). By the time of Cicero and Julius Caesar, divorce was relatively common and \"shame-free,\" the subject of gossip rather than a social disgrace. Valerius says that Lucius Annius was disapproved of because he divorced his wife without consulting his friends; that is, he undertook the action for his own purposes and without considering its effects on his social network (\"amicitia\" and \"clientela\"). The censors of 307 BCE thus expelled him from the Senate for moral turpitude.\n\nElsewhere, however, it is claimed that the first divorce took place only in 230 BCE, at which time Dionysius of Halicarnassus notes that \"Spurius Carvilius, a man of distinction, was the first to divorce his wife\" on grounds of infertility. This was most likely the Spurius Carvilius Maximus Ruga who was consul in 234 and 228 BCE. The evidence is confused.\n\nDuring the classical period of Roman law (late Republic and Principate), a man or woman could end a marriage simply because he or she wanted to, and for no other reason. Unless the wife could prove the spouse was worthless, he kept the children. Because property had been kept separate during the marriage, divorce from a \"free\" marriage was a very easy procedure.\n\nThe frequency of remarriage among the elite was high. Speedy remarriage was not unusual, and perhaps even customary, for aristocratic Romans after the death of a spouse. While no formal waiting period was dictated for a widower, it was customary for a woman to remain in mourning for ten months before remarrying. The duration may allow for pregnancy: if a woman had become pregnant just before her husband's death, the period of ten months ensures that no question of paternity, which might affect the child's social status and inheritance, would attach to the birth. No law prohibited pregnant women from marrying, and there are well-known instances: Augustus married Livia when she was carrying her former husband's child, and the College of Pontiffs ruled that it was permissible as long as the child's father was determined first. Livia's previous husband even attended the wedding.\n\nBecause elite marriages often occurred for reasons of politics or property, a widow or divorcée with assets in these areas faced few obstacles to remarrying. She was far more likely to be legally emancipated than a first-time bride, and to have a say in the choice of husband. The marriages of Fulvia, who commanded troops during the last civil war of the Republic and who was the first Roman woman to have her face on a coin, are thought to indicate her own political sympathies and ambitions: she was married first to the popularist champion Clodius Pulcher, who was murdered in the street after a long feud with Cicero; then to Scribonius Curio, a figure of less ideological certitude who at the time of his death had come over to Julius Caesar; and finally to Mark Antony, the last opponent to the republican oligarchs and to Rome's future first emperor.\n\nThe Greek observer Plutarch indicates that a second wedding among Romans was likely to be a quieter affair, as a widow would still feel the absence of her dead husband, and a divorcée ought to feel shame. But while the circumstances of divorce might be shameful or embarrassing, and remaining married to the same person for life was ideal, there was no general disapproval of remarriage; on the contrary, marriage was considered the right and desirable condition of adult life for both men and women. Cato the Younger, who presented himself as a paragon modeled after his moral namesake, allowed his pregnant wife Marcia to divorce him and marry Hortensius, declining to offer his young daughter to the 60-year-old orator instead. After the widowed Marcia inherited considerable wealth, Cato married her again, in a ceremony lacking many of the formalities. Women might be mocked, however, for marrying too often or capriciously, particularly if it could be implied that sexual appetites and vanity were motives.\n\nA concubine was defined by Roman law as a woman living in a permanent monogamous relationship with a man not her husband. There was no dishonor in being a concubine or living with a concubine, and a concubine could become a wife. Gifts could be exchanged between the partners in concubinage, in contrast to marriage, which maintained a more defined separation of property.\n\nCouples usually resorted to concubinage when inequality of social rank was an obstacle to marriage: for instance, a man of senatorial rank, and a woman who was a social inferior, such as a freedwoman or one who had a questionable background of poverty or prostitution. Two partners who lacked the right to the form of legal marriage known as \"conubium\" might enter into concubinage, or even a highborn woman who loved a man of low social status. Concubinage differed from marriage chiefly in the status of children born from the relationship. Children had their mother's social rank, and not as was customary their father's.\n\nClassical Roman law did not allow any domestic abuse by a husband to his wife, but as with any other crime, laws against domestic abuse can be assumed to fail to prevent it. Cato the Elder said, according to his biographer Plutarch, \"that the man who struck his wife or child, laid violent hands on the holiest of holy things. Also that he thought it more praiseworthy to be a good husband than a good senator.\" A man of status during the Roman Republic was expected to behave moderately toward his wife and to define himself as a good husband. Wife beating was sufficient grounds for divorce or other legal action against the husband.\n\nDomestic abuse enters the historical record mainly when it involves the egregious excesses of the elite. The Emperor Nero was alleged to have had his first wife (and stepsister) Claudia Octavia murdered, after subjecting her to torture and imprisonment. Nero then married his pregnant mistress Poppaea Sabina, whom he kicked to death for criticizing him. Some modern historians believe that Poppaea died from a miscarriage or childbirth, and that the story was exaggerated to vilify Nero. The despised Commodus is supposed also to have killed his wife and his sister.\n\nRoman wives were expected to bear children, but the women of the aristocracy, accustomed to a degree of independence, showed a growing disinclination to devote themselves to traditional motherhood. By the 1st century CE, most elite women avoided breast-feeding their infants themselves, and hired wet-nurses. The practice was not uncommon as early as the 2nd century BCE, when the comic playwright Plautus mentions wet-nurses casually. Since a mother's milk was considered best for the baby, aristocratic women might still choose to breast-feed, unless physical reasons prevented it. If a woman chose to forgo nursing her own child she could visit the Columna Lactaria (\"Milk Column\"), where poor parents could obtain milk for their infants as charity from wet nurses, and those who could afford it could choose to hire a wet nurse. Licinia, the wife of Cato the Elder (d. 149 BCE), is reported to have nursed not only her son, but sometimes the infants of her slaves, to encourage \"brotherly affection\" among them. By the time of Tacitus (d. 117 CE), breastfeeding by elite matrons was idealized as a practice of the virtuous old days.\n\nThe extent to which Roman women might expect their husbands to participate in the rearing of very young children seems to vary and is hard to determine. Family-values traditionalists such as Cato appear to have taken an interest: Cato liked to be present when his wife bathed and swaddled their child.\n\nLarge families were not the norm among the elite even by the Late Republic; the family of Clodius Pulcher, who had at least three sisters and two brothers, was considered unusual. The birth rate among the aristocracy declined to such an extent that the first Roman emperor Augustus (reigned 27 BCE–14 CE) passed a series of laws intended to increase it, including special honors for women who bore at least three children (the \"ius trium liberorum)\". Those who were unmarried, divorced, widowed, or barren were prohibited from inheriting property unless named in a will.\n\nRoman women were not only valued for the number of children that they produced, but also for their part in raising and educating children to become good citizens. To rear children for successful lives, an exemplary Roman mother needed to be well-educated herself.\n\nOne of the Roman women most famous for their strength and influence as a mother was Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi. Julius Caesar, whose father died when he was only a young teen, had a close relationship with his mother, Aurelia, whose political clout was essential in preventing the execution of her 18-year-old son during the proscriptions of Sulla.\n\nAristocratic women managed a large and complex household. Since wealthy couples often owned multiple homes and country estates with dozens or even hundreds of slaves, some of whom were educated and highly skilled, this responsibility was the equivalent of running a small corporation. In addition to the social and political importance of entertaining guests, clients, and visiting dignitaries from abroad, the husband held his morning business meetings (\"salutatio\") at home. The home (\"domus\") was also the center of the family's social identity, with ancestral portraits displayed in the entrance hall (\"atrium\"). Since the most ambitious aristocratic men were frequently away from home on military campaign or administrative duty in the provinces, sometimes for years at a time, the maintenance of the family's property and business decisions were often left to the wives; for instance, while Julius Caesar was away from Rome throughout the 50s BCE, his wife Calpurnia was responsible for taking care of his assets. When Ovid, Rome's greatest living poet, was exiled by Augustus in 8 CE, his wife exploited social connections and legal maneuvers to hold on to the family's property, on which their livelihood depended. Ovid expresses his love and admiration for her lavishly in the poetry he wrote during his exile. Frugality, parsimony, and austerity were characteristics of the virtuous matron.\n\nOne of the most important tasks for women to oversee in a large household was clothing production. In the early Roman period, the spinning of wool was a central domestic occupation, and indicated a family's self-sufficiency, since the wool would be produced on their estates. Even in an urban setting, wool was often a symbol of a wife's duties, and equipment for spinning might appear on the funeral monument of a woman to show that she was a good and honorable matron. Even women of the upper classes were expected to be able to spin and weave in virtuous emulation of their rustic ancestors — a practice ostentatiously observed by Livia.\n\n\"One of the most curious characteristics of that age,\" observed French classical scholar Gaston Boissier, \"was that the women appear as much engaged in business and as interested in speculations as the men. Money is their first care. They work their estates, invest their funds, lend and borrow. We find one among Cicero's creditors, and two among his debtors.\" Although Roman society did not allow women to gain official political power, it did allow them to enter business.\n\nEven women of wealth were not supposed to be idle ladies of leisure. Among the aristocracy, women as well as men lent money to their peers to avoid resorting to a moneylender. When Pliny was considering buying an estate, he factored in a loan from his mother-in-law as a guarantee rather than an option. Women also joined in funding public works, as is frequently documented by inscriptions during the Imperial period. The \"lawless\" Politta, who appears in the \"Martyrdom of Pionius\", owned estates in the province of Asia. Inscriptions record her generosity in funding the renovation of the Sardis gymnasium.\n\nBecause women had the right to own property, they might engage in the same business transactions and management practices as any landowner. As with their male counterparts, their management of slaves appears to have varied from relative care to negligence and outright abuse. During the First Servile War, Megallis and her husband Damophilus were both killed by their slaves on account of their brutality, but their daughter was spared because of her kindness and granted safe passage out of Sicily, along with an armed escort.\nUnlike landholding, industry was not considered an honorable profession for those of senatorial rank. Cicero suggested that in order to gain respectability a merchant should buy land. Attitudes changed during the Empire, however, and Claudius created legislation to encourage the upper classes to engage in shipping. Women of the upper classes are documented as owning and running shipping corporations.\n\nTrade and manufacturing are not well represented in Roman literature, which was produced for and largely by the elite, but funerary inscriptions sometimes record the profession of the deceased, including women. Women are known to have owned and operated brick factories. A woman might develop skills to complement her husband's trade, or manage aspects of his business. Artemis the gilder was married to Dionysius the helmet maker, as indicated by a curse tablet asking for the destruction of their household, workshop, work, and livelihood. The status of ordinary women who owned a business seems to have been regarded as exceptional. Laws during the Imperial period aimed at punishing women for adultery exempted those \"who have charge of any business or shop\" from prosecution.\n\nSome typical occupations for a woman would be wet nurse, actress, dancer or acrobat, prostitute, and midwife — not all of equal respectability. Prostitutes and performers such as actresses were stigmatized as \"infames\", people who had recourse to few legal protections even if they were free. Inscriptions indicate that a woman who was a wet nurse (\"nutrix\") would be quite proud of her occupation. Women could be scribes and secretaries, including \"girls trained for beautiful writing,\" that is, calligraphers. Pliny gives a list of female artists and their paintings.\n\nMost Romans lived in \"insulae\" (apartment buildings), and those housing the poorer plebeian and non-citizen families usually lacked kitchens. The need to buy prepared food meant that takeaway food was a thriving business. Most of the Roman poor, whether male or female, young or old, earned a living through their own labour.\n\nMen argued firmly to block women from engaging in the public sphere. The political system in ancient Rome involved men exclusively—from senators to magistrates. Women were even prevented from voting. They were not seen as fit to be part of the political sphere as men believed them to be only suited for \"elegance, adornment, and finery.\" However, elite women could manipulate their husbands and through them exercise control over the political world. In some cases, women were viewed as a threat to male rule. Cato the elder went so far as to prevent boys from attending senatorial meetings in fear that they would relay the news to their inquisitive mothers.\n\nDuring the civil wars that ended the Republic, Appian reports the heroism of wives who saved their husbands. An epitaph known as the \"Laudatio Turiae\" preserves a husband's eulogy for his wife, who during the civil war following the death of Julius Caesar endangered her own life and relinquished her jewelry to send support to her husband in exile. Both survived the turbulence of the time to enjoy a long marriage. Porcia, the daughter of Cato the Younger and wife of Brutus the assassin, came to a less fortunate but (in the eyes of her time) heroic end: she killed herself as the Republic collapsed, just as her father did.\n\nThe rise of Augustus to sole power in the last decades of the 1st century BCE diminished the power of political officeholders and the traditional oligarchy, but did nothing to diminish and arguably increased the opportunities for women, as well as slaves and freedmen, to exercise influence behind the scenes. Before this point, women's political power was extremely curtailed compared to the power men held by preventing their right to vote. However, starting with Augustus' rule, the inability to vote no longer mattered because the senate lost its power. Additionally, the shift from the forum to the palace allowed for women who lived there to gain an upper hand in influencing politics.\n\nOne notable woman was Livia Drusilla Augusta (58 BCE – CE 29), the wife of Augustus and the most powerful woman in the early Roman Empire, acting several times as regent and being Augustus' faithful advisor. Several women of the Imperial family, such as Livia's great-granddaughter and Caligula's sister Agrippina the Younger, gained political influence as well as public prominence.\n\nWomen also participated in efforts to overthrow the emperors who abused their power. Shortly after Caligula's sister Drusilla died, her widower Marcus Aemilius Lepidus and her sisters Agrippina the Younger and Livilla conspired to overthrow Caligula. The plot was discovered, and Lepidus was executed. Agrippina and Livilla were exiled, and returned from exile only when their paternal uncle Claudius came to power after Caligula's assassination in 41 CE.\n\nWomen could also be motivated by less than noble causes. Claudius's third wife Valeria Messalina conspired with Gaius Silius to overthrow her husband in the hope of installing herself and her lover in power.\n\nTacitus immortalized the woman Epicharis for her part in the Pisonian conspiracy, where she attempted to gain the support of the Roman fleet and was instead arrested. Once the conspiracy was uncovered, she would reveal nothing even under torture, in contrast to the senators, who were not subjected to torture and yet raced to spill the details. Tacitus also praises Egnatia Maximilla for sacrificing her fortune in order to stand by her innocent husband against Nero.\n\nClassical texts have little to say about women and the Roman army. Emperor Augustus (reigned 27 BC–AD 14) disallowed marriage by ordinary soldiers, a ban that lasted nearly two centuries. However it has been suggested that wives and children of centurions lived with them at border and provincial forts. Shoes in women's and children's sizes were found at Vindolanda (site of a Roman fort on Hadrian's wall in northern England), along with bronze plaques, awarded to provincial soldiers whose 25 years of service earned them Roman citizenship, that mention their wives and children. Likewise, in Germany, further evidence of this practice was discovered in the form of brooches and shoes. Trajan's Column depicts six women amongst the soldiers who are attendants holding sacrificial offerings at a military religious ceremony.\n\nWomen were present at most Roman festivals and cult observances. Some rituals specifically required the presence of women, but their participation might be limited. As a rule women did not perform animal sacrifice, the central rite of most major public ceremonies, though this was less a matter of prohibition than the fact that most priests presiding over state religion were men. Some cult practices were reserved for women only, for example, the rites of the Good Goddess (Bona Dea).\n\nWomen priests played a prominent and crucial role in the official religion of Rome. Although the state colleges of male priests were far more numerous, the six women of the college of Vestals were Rome's only \"full-time professional clergy.\" \"Sacerdos\", plural \"sacerdotes\", was the Latin word for a priest of either gender. Religious titles for women include \"sacerdos\", often in relation to a deity or temple, such as a \"sacerdos Cereris\" or \"Cerealis\", \"priestess of Ceres\", an office never held by men; \"magistra\", a high priestess, female expert or teacher in religious matters; and \"ministra\", a female assistant, particularly one in service to a deity. A \"magistra\" or \"ministra\" would have been responsible for the regular maintenance of a cult. Epitaphs provide the main evidence for these priesthoods, and the woman is often not identified in terms of her marital status.\n\nThe Vestals possessed unique religious distinction, public status and privileges, and could exercise considerable political influence. It was also possible for them to amass \"considerable wealth.\" Upon entering her office, a Vestal was emancipated from her father's authority. In archaic Roman society, these priestesses were the only women not required to be under the legal guardianship of a man, instead answering directly and only to the Pontifex Maximus. Their vow of chastity freed them of the traditional obligation to marry and rear children, but its violation carried a heavy penalty: a Vestal found to have polluted her office by breaking her vow was given food, water, and entombed alive. The independence of the Vestals thus existed in relation to the prohibitions imposed on them. In addition to conducting certain religious rites, the Vestals participated at least symbolically in every official sacrifice, as they were responsible for preparing the required ritual substance \"mola salsa\". The Vestals seem to have retained their religious and social distinctions well into the 4th century CE, until the Christian emperors dissolved the order.\n\nA few priesthoods were held jointly by married couples. Marriage was a requirement for the Flamen Dialis, the high priest of Jupiter; his wife, the Flaminica Dialis, had her own unique priestly attire, and like her husband was placed under obscure magico-religious prohibitions. The flaminica was a perhaps exceptional case of a woman performing animal sacrifice; she offered a ram to Jupiter on each of the \"nundinae\", the eight-day Roman cycle comparable to a week. The couple were not permitted to divorce, and if the flaminica died the flamen had to resign his office.\nLike the Flaminica Dialis, the \"regina sacrorum\", \"queen of the sacred rites,\" wore distinctive ceremonial dress and performed animal sacrifice, offering a sow or female lamb to Juno on the first day of each month. The names of some \"reginae sacrorum\" are recorded by inscriptions. The \"regina\" was the wife of the \"rex sacrorum\", \"king of the sacred rites,\" an archaic priesthood regarded in the earliest period as more prestigious than even the Pontifex Maximus.\n\nThese highly public official duties for women contradict the commonplace notion that women in ancient Rome took part only in private or domestic religion. The dual male-female priesthoods may reflect the Roman tendency to seek a gender complement within the religious sphere; most divine powers are represented by both a male and a female deity, as seen in divine pairs such as Liber and Libera. The twelve major gods were presented as six gender-balanced pairs, and Roman religion departed from Indo-European tradition in installing two goddesses in its supreme triad of patron deities, Juno and Minerva along with Jupiter. This triad \"formed the core of Roman religion.\"\nFrom the Mid Republic onward, religious diversity became increasingly characteristic of the city of Rome. Many religions that were not part of Rome's earliest state cult offered leadership roles for women, among them the cult of Isis and of the Magna Mater. An epitaph preserves the title \"sacerdos maxima\" for a woman who held the highest priesthood of the Magna Mater's temple near the current site of St. Peter's Basilica.\n\nAlthough less documented than public religion, private religious practices addressed aspects of life that were exclusive to women. At a time when the infant mortality rate was as high as 40 percent, divine aid was solicited for the life-threatening act of giving birth and the perils of caring for a baby. Invocations were directed at the goddesses Juno, Diana, Lucina, the \"di nixi\", and a host of divine attendants devoted to birth and childrearing.\n\nMale writers vary in their depiction of women's religiosity: some represent women as paragons of Roman virtue and devotion, but also inclined by temperament to excessive religious devotion, the lure of magic, or \"superstition.\" Nor was \"private\" the same as \"secret\": Romans were suspicious of secretive religious practices, and Cicero cautioned that nocturnal sacrifices were not to be performed by women, except for those ritually prescribed \"pro populo\", on behalf of the Roman people, that is, for the public good.\n\nWealthy women traveled around the city in a litter carried by slaves. Women gathered in the streets on a daily basis to meet with friends, attend religious rites at temples, or to visit the baths. The wealthiest families had private baths at home, but most people went to bath houses not only to wash but to socialize, as the larger facilities offered a range of services and recreational activities, among which casual sex was not excluded. One of the most vexed questions of Roman social life is whether the sexes bathed together in public. Until the late Republic, evidence suggests that women usually bathed in a separate wing or facility, or that women and men were scheduled at different times. But there is also clear evidence of mixed bathing from the late Republic until the rise of Christian dominance in the later Empire. Some scholars have thought that only lower-class women bathed with men, or those of dubious moral standing such as entertainers or prostitutes, but Clement of Alexandria observed that women of the highest social classes could be seen naked at the baths. Hadrian prohibited mixed bathing, but the ban seems not to have endured. Most likely, customs varied not only by time and place, but by facility, so that women could choose to segregate themselves by gender or not.\n\nFor entertainment women could attend debates at the Forum, the public games (\"ludi\"), chariot races, and theatrical performances. By the late Republic, they regularly attended dinner parties, though in earlier times the women of a household dined in private together. Conservatives such as Cato the Elder (234–149 BCE) considered it improper for women to take a more active role in public life; his complaints indicated that indeed some women did voice their opinions in the public sphere.\n\nThough the practice was discouraged, Roman generals would sometimes take their wives with them on military campaigns. Caligula's mother Agrippina the Elder often accompanied her husband Germanicus on his campaigns in northern Germania, and the emperor Claudius was born in Gaul for this reason. Wealthy women might tour the empire, often participating or viewing religious ceremonies and sites around the empire. Rich women traveled to the countryside during the summer when Rome became too hot.\n\nWomen in ancient Rome took great care in their appearance, though extravagance was frowned upon. They wore cosmetics and made different concoctions for their skin. Ovid even wrote a poem about the correct application of makeup. Women used white chalk or arsenic to whiten their faces, or rouge made of lead or carmine to add color to their cheeks as well as using lead to highlight their eyes. They spent much time arranging their hair and often dyed it black, red, or blonde. They also wore wigs regularly.\n\nMatrons usually wore two simple tunics for undergarments covered by a \"stola\". The \"stola\" was a long white dress that was cinched at the waist and which fell to the wearer’s feet, secured by clasps at the shoulder. Wealthier women would decorate their \"stola\" further. When going out a woman wore a \"palla\" over her \"stola\", which was held by a clasp at the shoulder. Young women were not permitted to wear a \"stola\", and instead wore tunics. Prostitutes and those caught committing adultery put on the male toga. Wealthy women wore jewels such as emeralds, aquamarine, opal, and pearls as earrings, necklaces, rings and sometimes sewn onto their shoes and clothing.\nIn the aftermath of Roman defeat at Cannae, economic crisis provoked the passing of the Lex Oppia (215 BCE) to restrict personal and public extravagance. The law limited women's possession and display of gold and silver (as money or personal ornament), expensive clothing and their \"unnecessary\" use of chariots and litters. Victory over Carthage flooded Rome with wealth and in 195 BCE the Lex Oppia was reviewed. The ruling consul, Cato the Censor argued for its retention: personal morality and self-restraint were self-evidently inadequate controls on indulgence and luxury. Luxury provoked the envy and shame of those less well-off, and was therefore divisive. Roman women, in Cato's view, had showed only too clearly that their appetites once corrupted knew no limits, and must be restrained. Large numbers of Roman matrons thought otherwise, and made concerted public protest. In 193 BCE the laws were abolished: Cato's opposition did not harm his political career. Later, in 42 BCE, Roman women, led by Hortensia, successfully protested against laws designed to tax Roman women, by use of the argument of no taxation without representation. Evidence of a lessening on luxury restrictions can also be found; one of the Letters of Pliny is addressed to the woman Pompeia Celerina praising the luxuries she keeps in her villa.\n\nBased on Roman art and literature, small breasts and wide hips were the ideal body type for women considered alluring by Roman men. Roman art from the Augustan period shows idealized women as substantial and fleshy, with a full abdomen and breasts that are rounded, not pendulous. Prostitutes depicted in Roman erotic art have fleshy bodies and wide hips, and often have their breasts covered by a \"strophium\" (a sort of strapless bra) even when otherwise nude and performing sex acts. Large breasts were mocked as humorous or a sign of old age. Young girls wore a \"strophium\" secured tightly in the belief that it would inhibit the growth of breasts, and a regimen of massaging the breasts with hemlock, begun while a woman was still a virgin, was thought to prevent sagging. Breasts receive relatively minimal attention in erotic art and literature as a sexual focus; the breast was associated primarily with nursing infants and a woman's role as a mother. In times of extreme emotional duress, such as mourning or captivity in wartime, women might bare their breasts as an apotropaic gesture.\n\nDuring the late Republic penalties for sexuality were barely enforced if at all, and a new erotic ideal of romantic relationship emerges. Subverting the tradition of male dominance, the love poets of the late Republic and Augustan era declared their eagerness to submit to \"love slavery\" (\"servitium amoris\"). Catullus addresses a number of poems to \"Lesbia,\" a married woman with whom he has an affair, usually identified as a fictionalized Clodia, sister of the prominent popularist politician Clodius Pulcher. The affair ends badly, and Catullus's declarations of love turn to attacks on her sexual appetites — rhetoric that accords with the other hostile source on Clodia's behavior, Cicero's \"Pro Caelio\".\n\nIn \"The Art of Love\", Ovid goes a step further, adopting the genre of didactic poetry for offering instruction in how to pursue, keep, and get over a lover. Satirists such as Juvenal complain about the dissolute behavior of women.\n\nThe practices and views in the \"Hippocratic Corpus\" regarding women's bodies and their perceived weaknesses were inadequate for addressing the needs of women in the Hellenistic and Roman eras, when women led active lives and more often engaged in family planning. The physiology of women began to be seen as less alien to that of men. In the older tradition, intercourse, pregnancy, and childbirth were not only central to women's health, but the \"raison d'être\" for female physiology; men, by contrast, were advised to exercise moderation in their sexual behavior, since hypersexuality would cause disease and fatigue.\nThe Hippocratic view that amenorrhea was fatal became by Roman times a specific issue of infertility, and was recognized by most Roman medical writers as a likely result when women engage in intensive physical regimens for extended periods of time. Balancing food, exercise, and sexual activity came to be regarded as a choice that women might make. The observation that intensive training was likely to result in amenorrhea implies that there were women who engaged in such regimens.\n\nIn the Roman era, medical writers saw a place for exercise in the lives of women in sickness and health. Soranus recommends playing ball, swimming, walking, reading aloud, riding in vehicles, and travel as recreation, which would promote overall good health. In examining the causes of undesired childlessness, these later gynecological writers include information about sterility in men, rather than assuming some defect in the woman only.\n\nHypersexuality was to be avoided by women as well as men. An enlarged clitoris, like an oversized phallus, was considered a symptom of excessive sexuality. Although Hellenistic and Roman medical and other writers refer to clitoridectomy as primarily an \"Egyptian\" custom, gynecological manuals under the Christian Empire in late antiquity propose that hypersexuality could be treated by surgery or repeated childbirth.\n\nFreedwomen were manumitted slaves. A freed slave owed a period of service, the terms of which might be agreed upon as a precondition of freedom, to her former owner, who became her patron. The patron had obligations in return, such as paying for said services and helping in legal matters. The patron-client relationship was one of the fundamental social structures of ancient Rome, and failure to fulfill one's obligations brought disapproval and censure.\n\nIn most ways, freedwomen had the same legal status as freeborn women. But because under Roman law a slave had no father, freed slaves had no inheritance rights unless they were named in a will.\n\nThe relationship of a former slave to her patron could be complicated. In one legal case, a woman named Petronia Iusta attempted to show — without a birth declaration to prove it — that she had been free-born. Her mother, she acknowledged, had been a slave in the household of Petronius Stephanus and Calatoria Themis, but Iusta maintained that she had been born after her mother's manumission. Calatoria, by now a widow, in turn argued that Iusta was born before her mother was free and that she had been manumitted, therefore owing her former owner the service due a patron. Calatoria could produce no documentation of this supposed manumission, and the case came down to the testimony of witnesses.\n\nUneducated or unskilled slaves had few opportunities to earn their freedom, and if they became free would lack means of supporting themselves. Therefore, a freedwoman in the workplace could have the advantage in training and skill over a woman born to a free family of working poor.\n\nThe status of freedwomen, like freedmen, varied widely. Caenis was a freedwoman and secretary to the Emperor Vespasian; she was also his concubine. He is said to have lived with her faithfully, but she was not considered a wife.\n\nWomen could turn to prostitution to support themselves, but not all prostitutes had freedom to decide. There is some evidence that even slave prostitutes could benefit from their labor. Although rape was a crime, the law only punished the rape of a slave if it \"damaged the goods,\" because a slave had no legal standing. The penalty was aimed at providing her owner compensation for the \"damage\" of his property. Because a slave woman was considered property under Roman law, forcing her to be a prostitute was not considered a crime. Prior to Septimius Severus, women who engaged in acts that brought \"infamia\" to them as slaves also suffered \"infamia\" when freed. Sometimes sellers of female slaves attached a \"ne serva\" clause to the slave to prevent her from being prostituted. The Ne Serva clause meant that if the new owner or any owner after him or her used the slave as a prostitute she would be free. Later on the \"ne serva\" agreements became enforceable by law. Prostitution was not limited to slaves or poor citizens; according to Suetonius, Caligula when converting his palace into a brothel employed upper class \"matrons and youths\" as prostitutes. Suetonius, The Twelve Caesars, Life of Caligula, Tacitus records that during one of Nero's feasts the prefect Tigellinus had brothels filled with upper class women. Prostitution could also be a punishment instead of an occupation; a law of Augustus allowed that women guilty of adultery could be sentenced to work in brothels as prostitutes. The law was abolished in 389.\n\n\n\n"}
