{"id": "161537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161537", "title": "Andrew Mellon", "text": "Andrew Mellon\n\nAndrew William Mellon (; March 24, 1855 – August 26, 1937), sometimes A.W., was an American banker, businessman, industrialist, philanthropist, art collector, and politician. From the wealthy Mellon family of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, he established a vast business empire before transitioning into politics. He served as United States Secretary of the Treasury from March 9, 1921, to February 12, 1932, presiding over the boom years of the 1920s and the Wall Street crash of 1929. A conservative Republican, Mellon favored policies that reduced taxation and the national debt in the aftermath of World War I.\n\nMellon's father, Thomas Mellon, rose to prominence in Pittsburgh as a banker and attorney. Andrew began working at his father's bank, T. Mellon & Sons, in the early 1870s, eventually becoming the leading figure in the institution. He later renamed T. Mellon & Sons as Mellon National Bank and established another financial institution, the Union Trust Company. By the end of 1913, Mellon National Bank held more money in deposits than any other bank in Pittsburgh, and the second-largest bank in the region was controlled by Union Trust. In the course of his business career, Mellon owned or helped finance Alcoa, the New York Shipbuilding Corporation, Old Overholt whiskey, Standard Steel Car Company, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Koppers, the Pittsburgh Coal Company, the Carborundum Company, Union Steel Company, the McClintic-Marshall Construction Company, Gulf Oil, and numerous other businesses. He was also an influential donor to the Republican Party during the Gilded Age and the Progressive Era.\n\nIn 1921, newly-elected President Warren G. Harding chose Mellon as his Secretary of the Treasury. Mellon would remain in office until 1932, serving under Harding, Calvin Coolidge, and Herbert Hoover, all three of whom were members of the Republican Party. Mellon sought to reform federal taxation in the aftermath of World War I, cutting taxes on top earners but leaving in place a progressive income tax. Some of Mellon's proposals were enacted by the Revenue Act of 1921 and the Revenue Act of 1924, but it was not until the passage of Revenue Act of 1926 that the \"Mellon plan\" was fully realized. He also presided over a reduction in the national debt, which dropped substantially in the 1920s. Mellon's influence in state and national politics reached its zenith during Coolidge's presidency; one observer noted that \"it would be fair to call the [Coolidge] administration the reign of Coolidge and Mellon.\"\n\nMellon's national reputation collapsed following the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the onset of the Great Depression. Mellon participated in various efforts by the Hoover administration to revive the economy and maintain the international economic order, but he opposed direct government intervention in the economy. After Congress began impeachment proceedings against Mellon, President Hoover shifted Mellon to the position of United States ambassador to the United Kingdom. Mellon returned to private life after Hoover's defeat in the 1932 presidential election by Franklin D. Roosevelt. Beginning in 1933, the federal government launched a tax fraud investigation on Mellon, leading to a high-profile case that ended with Mellon's exoneration. Shortly before his death in 1937, Mellon helped establish the National Gallery of Art, a national art museum. His philanthropic efforts also played a major role in the later establishment of Carnegie Mellon University and the National Portrait Gallery.\n\nMellon's paternal grandparents, both of whom were Ulster Scots, migrated to the United States from County Tyrone, Ireland in 1818. With their son, Thomas Mellon, they settled in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania. Thomas Mellon established a successful legal practice in Pittsburgh, and in 1843 he married Sarah Jane Negley, an heiress descended from some of the first settlers of Pittsburgh. Thomas became a wealthy landowner and real estate speculator, and he and his wife had eight children, five of whom survived to adulthood. Andrew Mellon, the fourth son and sixth child of Thomas and Sarah, was born in 1855. Though he lacked strong convictions about slavery, Thomas Mellon became a prominent member of the local Republican Party, and in 1859 he won election to a position on the Pennsylvania court of common pleas. Because Thomas was suspicious of both private and public schools, he built a schoolhouse for his children and hired a teacher; Andrew attended this school beginning at age five.\n\nIn 1869, after leaving his judicial position, Thomas Mellon established T. Mellon & Sons, a bank located in Pittsburgh. Andrew joined his father at the bank, quickly becoming a valued employee despite being in his early teens. Andrew also attended Western University (which was later renamed the University of Pittsburgh), but he never graduated. After leaving Western University, Andrew briefly worked at a lumber and coal business before joining T. Mellon & Sons as a full-time employee in 1873. That same year, the Panic of 1873 devastated the local and national economy, wiping out a portion of the Mellon fortune. With Andrew taking a leading role at T. Mellon & Sons, the bank quickly recovered, and by late 1874 the bank's deposits had reached the level they had been at prior to the onset of the Panic.\n\nMellon's role at T. Mellon & Sons continued to grow after 1873, and in 1876 he was given power of attorney to direct the operations of the bank. That same year, Thomas introduced his son to Henry Clay Frick, a customer of the bank who would become one of Mellons's closest friends. In 1882, Thomas turned over full ownership of the bank to his son, but Thomas continued to be involved in the bank's activities. Five years later, Mellon's younger brother, Richard B. Mellon, joined T. Mellon & Sons as a co-owner and vice president.\n\nDuring the 1880s, Mellon began to expand the bank's activities. Along with Frick, Mellon gained control the Pittsburgh National Bank of Commerce, a national bank that was authorized to print banknotes. Mellon also acquired or helped found the Union Insurance Company, City Deposit Bank, the Fidelity Title and Trust Company, and the Union Trust Company. He branched out into industrial concerns, becoming a director of the Pittsburgh Petroleum Exchange and a co-founder of two natural gas companies that collectively controlled 35,000 acres of gas lands in the late 1880s. In 1890, Thomas Mellon transferred his properties to Andrew, who would manage the properties on behalf of himself, his parents, and his brothers. In late 1894, Thomas transferred all of his remaining assets to Andrew. Despite the large sums entrusted to Andrew, the businesses he ran were still fairly small in the 1890s; T. Mellon & Sons employed seven individuals in 1895.\n\nIn 1889, Mellon agreed to loan $25,000 to the Pittsburgh Reduction Company, a fledgling operation seeking to become the first successful industrial producer of aluminum. Mellon became a director of the company in 1891, and he and Richard played a major role in the establishment of aluminum factories in New Kensington, Pennsylvania and Niagara Falls, New York. The company would emerge as one of the most profitable ventures invested in by the Mellons, and in 1907 it was renamed as Alcoa. Moving into the petroleum industry, the Mellon family also established the Crescent Oil Company, the Crescent Pipeline Company, and the Bear Creek refinery. By 1894, the Mellon family's vertically-integrated companies produced ten percent of the oil exported by the United States. Partly due to the difficult economic conditions caused by the onset of the Panic of 1893, in 1895 the Mellons sold their oil interests to Standard Oil. At roughly the same time they were selling their oil concerns, Andrew and Richard invested in the Carborundum Company, a producer of silicon carbide. The brothers gained majority ownership of the Carborundum Company in 1898, and replaced the company's founder and president, Edward Goodrich Acheson, with a Carnegie protege, Frank W. Haskell. Mellon also invested in mining concerns, becoming vice president of the Trade Dollar Consolidated Mining Company.\n\nMellon and Henry Clay Frick enjoyed a long-lasting business and social relationship, and Frick frequently hosted Mellon, attorney Philander C. Knox, inventor George Westinghouse, and others for poker games. Frick and Mellon both joined the Duquesne Club and, after Frick established the South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club, Mellon became one of that club's first members. The South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club built the South Fork Dam, which supported an artificial lake that the club used for boating and fishing. In 1889, the dam broke, causing the Johnstown Flood, which killed 2,000 people and destroyed 1,600 homes. In the aftermath of the flood, Knox led a legal defense that successfully argued that the club bore no legal responsibility for the flood. Mellon did not publicly comment on the flood, though he did donate $1,000 to a relief fund.\n\nBy the late 1890s, Mellon had amassed a substantial fortune, but his wealth paled in comparison to better-known business leaders such as John D. Rockefeller. In the late 1890s, the Union Trust Company emerged for the first time as one of Mellon's most important and profitable holdings after Mellon broadened the company's activities to include commercial banking. With an infusion of capital from Union Trust, Mellon underwrote the capitalization of National Glass and several other companies. He also became a co-owner of the McClintic-Marshall Construction Company and established Crucible Steel Company, the Pittsburgh Coal Company, and the Monongahela River Coal Company; the two coal companies collectively contributed 11 percent of the coal production of the United States. With Frick, Richard Mellon, and William Donner, Mellon co-founded Union Steel Company, which specialized in the production of nails and barbed wire. Though Frick had fallen out with steel magnate and long-time business partner Andrew Carnegie, Mellon received Carnegie's consent to venture into the steel industry. Responding to the growing emphasis on naval power in the aftermath of the Spanish–American War, Mellon and Frick also became major shareholders in the New York Shipbuilding Corporation.\n\nIn 1902, Mellon reorganized T. Mellon & Sons as the Mellon National Bank, a federally-chartered National Bank. Andrew Mellon, Richard Mellon, and Frick drew up a new business arrangement in which the three of them jointly controlled the Union Trust Company, which in turn controlled Mellon National Bank. They also established Union Savings Bank, which accepted deposits by mail, and the Mellon banks flourished in the first years of the 20th century. While Mellon's financial empire prospered, his investments in other areas, including Pittsburgh's streetcar network, the Union Steel Company (which was bought out by U.S. Steel), and the Carborundum Company, also paid off handsomely. Another successful Mellon investment, the Standard Steel Car Company, was created in partnership with three former U.S. Steel executives. As part of the Texas oil boom, the Mellons also helped J. M. Guffey establish the Guffey Company. The Mellons later removed Guffey as the head of his company, and in 1907 they reorganized the Guffey Company as Gulf Oil and installed William Larimer Mellon Sr. (a son of Andrew Mellon's older brother, James Ross Mellon) as the head of Gulf Oil. The success of Mellon's financial empire and his varied investments made him, according to biographer David Cannadine, the \"single most significant individual in the economic life and progress of western Pennsylvania\" in the first decade of the 20th century.\n\nThe Panic of 1907 devastated several companies based in Pittsburgh, ending a period of strong growth. Some of Mellon's investments experienced a sustained down period after 1907, but most experienced a quick recovery. Mellon also became an investor in George Westinghouse's Westinghouse Electric Corporation after he helped prevent the company from going into bankruptcy. By the end of 1913, Mellon National Bank held more money in deposits than any other bank in Pittsburgh, and the Farmer's Deposit National Bank, which held the second-largest amount of deposits, was controlled by Mellon's Union Trust Company. In 1914, Mellon became a co-owner of Koppers, which produced a more sophisticated coking oven than the one that had earlier been pioneered by Frick. He also served as a director of various other companies, including the Pennsylvania Railroad and the American Locomotive Company. Mellon was deeply involved in the financing of World War I, as the Union Trust Company and other Mellon institutions provided millions of dollars in loans to the United Kingdom and France, and Mellon himself invested in Liberty bonds.\n\nIn 1887, Frick, Andrew, and Richard Mellon jointly purchased Old Overholt, a whiskey distillery located in West Overton, Pennsylvania. At the time, Old Overholt was one of the largest and most respected whiskey producers in the country. In 1907, as prohibition became more popular across the country, Frick and Mellon removed their names from the distilling license, but retained ownership in the company. It is believed that Mellon's connections in the Treasury Department are what allowed the company to secure a medicinal permit during Prohibition. This permit allowed Overholt to sell existing whiskey stocks to druggists for medicinal use. When Frick died in December 1919, he left his share to Mellon. In 1925, under pressure from prohibitionists, Mellon sold his share of the company to a New York grocer.\n\nLike his father, Mellon consistently supported the Republican Party, and he frequently donated to state and local party leaders. Through state party boss Matthew Quay, Mellon influenced legislators to place high tariffs on aluminum products in the McKinley Tariff of 1890. During the early 20th century, Mellon was dismayed by the rise of progressivism and the antitrust actions pursued by the presidential administrations of Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and Woodrow Wilson. He especially opposed the Taft administration's investigations into Alcoa, which in 1912 signed a consent decree rather than going to trial. In the aftermath of World War I, he provided financial support to Henry Cabot Lodge and other Republicans in their successful campaign to prevent ratification of the Treaty of Versailles. Mellon attended the 1920 Republican National Convention as a nominal supporter of Pennsylvania Governor William Cameron Sproul (Mellon hoped Senator Philander Knox would win the nomination), but the convention chose Senator Warren G. Harding of Ohio as the party's presidential nominee. Mellon strongly approved of the party's conservative platform, and he served as a key fundraiser for Harding during the presidential campaign.\n\nFollowing Harding's victory in the 1920 presidential election, Harding considered various candidates for Secretary of the Treasury, including Frank Lowden, John W. Weeks, Charles Dawes, and, at the urging of Senator Knox, Andrew Mellon. By 1920, Mellon was little-known outside of banking circles, but his potential appointment to the cabinet received strong support from bankers and Pennsylvania Republican leaders like Knox, Senator Boies Penrose, and Governor Sproul. Mellon was reluctant to enter public life due to concerns about privacy and a belief that his ownership of various businesses, including Old Overholt distillery, would be a political liability. But Mellon also wanted to retire from active participation in business, and he saw a cabinet position as a prestigious capstone to his career.\n\nMellon agreed to accept appointment as Secretary of the Treasury in February 1921, and his nomination was quickly confirmed by the United States Senate. Though Mellon's supporters believed that he was highly qualified to address the economic issues facing the country, critics of the Harding administration saw the Mellon appointment as a sign that Harding would \"reseat the power of special privileged interests, the powers of avarice and greed, the powers that seek self-aggrandizement at the expense of the general public.\" Harding paired the nomination of Mellon with that of Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover, who was distrusted by many of the same Senate Republicans who favored Mellon's candidacy. Before joining the cabinet, Mellon sold his banking stock to his brother, Richard, but he continued to hold his non-banking stock. Through Richard and other business associates, Mellon continued to be involved with the major decisions of the Mellon business empire during his time in public service, and he occasionally lobbied congressmen on behalf of his businesses. His fortune continued to grow, and at one point in the 1920s he paid more in federal income tax than any other individual save John Rockefeller and Henry Ford.\n\nAs Treasury Secretary, Mellon focused on balancing the budget and paying off World War I debts in the midst of the Depression of 1920–21; he was largely unconcerned with international affairs and economic matters such as the unemployment rate. To Mellon's chagrin, his department was charged with enforcing Prohibition; he did not believe in teetotaling himself and viewed the law as unenforceable. Aside from balancing the budget, Mellon's top priority was an overhaul of the federal tax code. The income tax had become a major part of the federal government's revenue system with the passage of the Revenue Act of 1913, and federal taxation on income had increased during World War I to provide funding for the war effort. According to M. Susan Murnane, major reforms to the federal income tax in the aftermath of World War I were \"inevitable,\" but the exact nature of the tax system in the 1920s was debated by conservatives and progressives within the Republican Party. Unlike the progressives in his party, Mellon rejected the redistributive nature of the taxation system that had been left in place by the Wilson administration. Due in part to the high debts left over from the war, Mellon did not join with some conservatives in the party, who favored the virtual abolition of the income tax in favor of high tariff rates, excise taxes, a national sales tax, or some combination thereof.\n\nMellon instead advocated for the retention of a progressive income tax that would serve as an important, but not primary, source of revenue for the federal government. His so-called \"scientific taxation\" was designed to maximize federal revenue while minimizing the impact on business and industry. The central tenet of Mellon's tax plan was a reduction of the surtax, a progressive tax that only affected high-income earners. Mellon argued that such a reduction would minimize tax avoidance and would not affect federal revenue because it would lead to greater economic growth. He hoped that tax reform would encourage high earners to move their savings from tax-exempt state and municipal bonds to taxable, higher yield industrial stocks. Though much of the tax plan that he proposed had been developed by former Wilson administration officials Russell Cornell Leffingwell and Seymour Parker Gilbert, the press generally referred to it as the \"Mellon Plan.\"\n\nThe Revenue Act of 1918 had set a top marginal income tax rate of 73% and a corporate tax of approximately 10%. Due in part to the size of the U.S. public debt, which had grown from $1 billion before the war to $24 billion in 1921, the provisions of the Revenue Act of 1918 remained in place when Harding took office. In 1921, the Treasury Department and the House Ways and Means Committee jointly prepared a bill setting the top marginal rate at the level advocated by Mellon, but opposition in the Senate from progressives like Senator Robert M. La Follette limited the size of the tax cuts. In November 1921, Congress passed and Harding signed the Revenue Act of 1921, which raised personal tax exemptions and lowered the top marginal tax rate to 58%. Because it differed from his original proposals, Mellon was displeased by the bill. He also strongly disapproved of a \"Bonus Bill\" passed by Congress that would provide for additional compensation to veterans of World War I, partly because he feared it would interfere with his plans to reduce debt and taxes. With Mellon's support, Harding vetoed the bill, and Congress failed to override the veto.\n\nAs the economy recovered from recession and began to experience the prosperity of the Roaring Twenties, Mellon emerged as one of the most renowned figures in the Harding administration. One admiring congressman referred to Mellon as the \"greatest Secretary of the Treasury since Alexander Hamilton.\" Harding died after suffering a stroke in August 1923, and he was succeeded by Vice President Calvin Coolidge. Mellon enjoyed closer relations with President Coolidge than he had with President Harding, and Coolidge and Mellon shared similar views on most major issues, including on the necessity for further tax cuts. William Allen White, a contemporary journalist, stated that \"so completely did Andrew Mellon dominate the White House in the days when the Coolidge administration was at its zenith that it would be fair to call the administration the reign of Coolidge and Mellon.\"\n\nCoolidge, Mellon, business organizations, and administration allies conducted a publicity campaign designed to convince wavering congressmen to support Mellon's tax plan. Their efforts were opposed by the coalition of Democrats and progressive Republicans that exercised effective control over the 68th Congress. In February 1924, the House Ways and Means Committee approved of a bill based on Mellon's plan, but an alliance of progressive Republicans and Democrats engineered passage of an alternative tax bill written by Democrat John Nance Garner; Garner's plan also reduced income taxes, but set the top marginal tax rate at 46% rather than Mellon's preferred 33%. In June 1924, Coolidge signed the Revenue Act of 1924, which contained the income tax rates of Garner's bill and also increased the estate tax. Coolidge signed the bill but simultaneously called for further tax cuts. Congress also rejected Mellon's proposed constitutional amendment that would have barred the issuance of tax-exempt securities and, over Coolidge's veto, authorized a bonus to World War I veterans. Mellon did, however, win one legislative victory, as he convinced Congress to create the Board of Tax Appeals to adjudicate disputes between taxpayers and the government.\n\nMellon had originally planned to retire after one presidential term, but decided to remain in the cabinet in the hope of presiding over the full enactment of his taxation proposals. In the 1924 presidential election, the Republicans campaigned on further tax cuts, while both the Democrats and third party candidate Robert La Follette denounced Mellon's tax proposals as \"a device to relieve multi-millionaires at the expense of other taxpayers.\" Buoyed by the strong economy, and overcoming the scandals of the Harding years, Mellon won re-election by a decisive margin. Coolidge saw his own landslide re-election victory as a mandate to pursue his favored economic policies, including further tax cuts.\n\nWhen Congress reconvened after the 1924 elections, it immediately began working on another bill designed to reduce taxes on the highest earners. In February 1926, Coolidge signed the Revenue Act of 1926, which reduced the top marginal rate to 25%. Mellon was extremely pleased by the passage of the act, because, unlike the Revenue Act of 1921 and the Revenue Act of 1924, the Revenue Act of 1926 closely reflected Mellon's proposals. In addition to cutting taxes on top earners, the act also raised the personal exemption for federal income taxes, abolished the gift tax, reduced the estate tax rate, and repealed a provision that had required the public disclosure of federal income tax returns. Meanwhile, the booming economy fostered a $400 million budget surplus in 1926, and the country's national debt dropped from $24 billion in early 1921 to $19.6 billion at the end of fiscal year 1926.\n\nWith his top priority of tax reform accomplished, Mellon increasingly turned over management of the Treasury Department to his deputy, Ogden L. Mills. After the 1926 elections, Mellon and Mills sought to cut the corporate tax and fully repeal the estate tax. The Revenue Act of 1928 did indeed cut the corporate tax, but the estate tax was left unchanged. Mellon also focused on the construction of new federal buildings, and his efforts led to the construction of several buildings in the Federal Triangle. In 1928, Mellon stated that \"in no other nation, and at no other time in the history of the world, have so many people enjoyed such a high degree of prosperity or maintained a standard of living comparable to that which prevails throughout this country today.\"\n\nResponsibility for foreign relations lay with the State Department rather than the Treasury Department, and the Benjamin Strong Jr. and other central bankers took the lead with regard to international monetary policy, but Mellon nonetheless exercised some influenced in foreign affairs. He strongly opposed the cancellation of European debts from World War I, but recognized that Britain and other countries would be unable to pay those debts without a renegotiation of terms. In 1923, Mellon and British Chancellor of the Exchequer Stanley Baldwin negotiated an agreement in which Britain promised to pay off the debts over a 62-year period. After the adoption of the Dawes Plan, Mellon reached debt settlements with several other European countries. After protracted negotiations, the United States and France agreed to the Mellon-Berenger Agreement, which reduced France's debt and set terms for repayment.\n\nCoolidge surprised many observers by announcing that he would not seek another term in August 1927. The decision left Hoover as the presumed front-runner for the 1928 presidential election, but many conservatives within the party opposed Hoover's candidacy. The conservative resistance to Hoover centered around Mellon, who controlled Pennsylvania's delegation at the 1928 Republican National Convention and was influential with Republicans throughout the country. Though they had maintained an amicable relationship in public, Mellon privately distrusted Hoover, resented Hoover's engagement in the affairs of other cabinet departments, and feared that a President Hoover would move away from Mellon's tax policies. Several Republicans urged Mellon to run for president, but Mellon believed that he was too old to seek the presidency. Mellon attempted to convince Coolidge or Charles Evans Hughes to run, but neither heeded his appeals. In the months before the 1928 Republican Convention, Mellon maintained his neutrality in the presidential race, but with no compelling alternative Republican candidate willing to run, Mellon finally threw his support behind Hoover. With Mellon's backing, Hoover won the Republican nomination on the first ballot of the convention, and he went on to defeat Al Smith in the 1928 presidential election. Defying widespread expectations that he would retire, Mellon chose to stay on as Secretary of the Treasury. Along with Secretary of Agriculture James Wilson and Secretary of Labor James J. Davis, Mellon is one of only three cabinet members to serve in the same post under three consecutive presidents.\n\nSecretary Mellon had helped persuade the Federal Reserve Board to lower interest rates in 1921 and 1924; lower interest rates contributed to a booming economy, but they also encouraged stock market speculation. In 1928, responding to increasing fears of the dangers of speculation and a booming stock market, the Federal Reserve Board began raising interest rates. Mellon favored another interest rate increase in 1929, and in August 1929 the Federal Reserve Board raised the discount rate to six percent. The higher rate failed to curb speculation, and the activity on the stock market continued to grow. In October 1929, the New York Stock Exchange suffered the worst crash in its history in what was called \"Black Tuesday.\" As the vast majority of Americans did not own shares in the stock market, the crash did not immediately have disastrous effects on the U.S. economy as a whole. Mellon had little sympathy for the speculators who lost their money, and he was philosophically opposed to an interventionist economic policy designed to address the stock market crash. Nonetheless, Mellon immediately began calling for cuts to the discount rate, which would reach two percent in mid-1930, and successfully urged Congress to pass a bill providing for temporary, across-the-board tax cuts.\n\nBy mid-1930, many, including Mellon, believed that the economy had already experienced the worst effects of the stock market crash. He did not object to the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act, which raised tariff rates to one of the highest levels in U.S. history. Despite the optimism of Hoover and Mellon, in late 1930 the economy went into a deep slump, as gross national product declined dramatically and numerous workers lost their jobs. While numerous banks failed, Democrats won control of Congress in the 1930 mid-term elections. As the economy declined, so did Mellon's popularity, which was further damaged by his opposition to another bonus bill for veterans. In mid-1931, the country entered a deep depression and, at Hoover's request, Mellon negotiated a moratorium on German debt repayments. After Mellon returned to the United States in August 1931, he was confronted by another series of bank failures. Among the banks that failed was the Bank of Pittsburgh, the lone remaining major Pittsburgh bank not controlled by the Mellon family. Again following Hoover's lead, Mellon presided over the creation of the National Credit Association, a voluntary initiative among the larger banks that was designed to assist failing institutions. As the National Credit Association proved to be ineffective at stemming the tide of bank failures, Congress and the Hoover administration established the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to provide federal loans to banks.\n\nWith the unemployment rate approaching twenty percent, Mellon became one of the most \"loathed leaders\" in the United States, second only to Hoover himself. Facing this unprecedented economic catastrophe, Mellon urged Hoover to refrain from using the government to intervene in the depression. Mellon believed that economic recessions, such as those that had occurred in 1873 and 1907, were a necessary part of the business cycle because they purged the economy, which in turn would lead to a situation in which \"people will work harder, lead a more moral life.\" Facing a large deficit, Mellon and Mills called for a return to the tax rates set by the Revenue Act of 1924, and also sought new taxes on automobiles, gasoline, and other items. Congress responded by passing the Revenue Act of 1932, which included many of Treasury Department's proposals. In early 1932, Congressman Wright Patman of Texas initiated impeachment proceedings against Mellon, contending that Mellon had violated numerous federal laws designed to prevent conflicts of interest. Though Mellon had defeated similar investigations in the past, his falling popularity left him unable to effectively counter Patman's charges. Hoover removed Mellon from Washington by offering him the position of ambassador to the United Kingdom. Mellon accepted the post, and Mills replaced his former boss as Secretary of the Treasury.\n\nMellon arrived in Britain in April 1932, receiving a friendly reception from a country he had often visited over the previous thirty years. From his post, he watched the collapse of the international economic order, including the debt accords that he had helped negotiate. He also convinced the British to allow Gulf Oil to operate in Kuwait, a British protectorate in the oil-rich region of the Persian Gulf. Defying Mellon's expectations, Hoover was defeated by Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1932 presidential election. Mellon left office when Hoover's term ended in March 1933, returning to private life after twelve years of government service.\n\nKnox and Penrose both died in 1921, leaving a power vacuum in Pennsylvania Republican politics. Along with his nephew, William Larimer Mellon, Mellon became an influential player in Pennsylvania politics, and their support helped ensure the elections of Senator David A. Reed and Senator George W. Pepper in 1922. Mellon was unable to assert the same level of control that Boies Penrose had had over state politics, and his leadership of the state party was challenged by William Scott Vare of Philadelphia and progressive leader Gifford Pinchot, who won the 1922 Pennsylvania gubernatorial election. Nonetheless, Mellon would continue to exert an important influence on Pennsylvania politics throughout the 1920s, especially in senatorial elections and in Allegheny County. Mellon's influence over state politics waned in the early 1930s, as the progressive allies of Governor Pinchot took control of the state Republican Party.\n\nNumerous financial institutions failed in the months prior to Roosevelt's inauguration, but Mellon National Bank, the Union Trust Company, and another Mellon banking operation, Mellbank Corporation, were all able to avoid closure. Mellon strongly opposed Roosevelt's New Deal policies, especially the 1933 Banking Act, which required a separation between commercial and investment banking. Mellon believed that the various New Deal policies, including Social Security and unemployment insurance, undermined the free market system that had produced one of the largest economies in the world. Aside from banking reform, other New Deal policies, including regulations on utilities and coal mines and laws designed to promote labor unions, also affected Mellon's business empire. Additionally, the Revenue Act of 1934 and the Revenue Act of 1935 rescinded many of Mellon's tax policies and contained other provisions that were designed to increase taxation on top earners and corporations.\n\nEven after leaving office, Mellon continued to be vilified by many in the public, and in 1933 Harvey O'Connor published a popular and unfavorable biography, \"Mellon's Millions\". Democrats won effective control of Allegheny County in the 1933 elections, and the following year Democrat Joseph F. Guffey won Pennsylvania's Senate election and George Howard Earle III won the state's gubernatorial election. Mellon endured numerous attacks during these campaigns, and his unpopularity in Pittsburgh led him to spend most of his final years in Washington rather than his home town.\n\nIn the 1930s, the Roosevelt administration conducted several high-profile tax evasion prosecutions against individuals such as Thomas W. Lamont and Jimmy Walker. In response to accusations levied by Republican Congressman Louis Thomas McFadden of Pennsylvania in early 1933, Attorney General Homer Cummings began an inquiry into Mellon's tax history. Between February 1935 and May 1936, the Board of Tax Appeals heard a widely covered case in which the federal government accused Mellon of tax fraud. During the proceedings, Mellon divulged numerous details of his business career that had previously been unknown to the public.\n\nMellon was diagnosed with cancer in November 1936. His health declined in 1937, and he died on August 26, 1937. Newspapers across the country took note of his death. Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau Jr. stated that Mellon had lived through \"an epoch in the economic history of the nation, and his passing takes one of the most important industrial and financial figures of our time.\" Mellon was buried at Trinity Episcopal Church Cemetery, Upperville, Virginia. Months after Mellon's death, the Board of Tax appeals handed down a ruling exonerating Mellon of all tax fraud charges.\n\nIn the early 1880s, Mellon had a serious relationship with Fannie Larimer Jones, but he broke off the relationship after learning that she was suffering from tuberculosis. After this experience, Mellon refrained from courting women for several years. In 1898, while traveling with Frick and Frick's wife to Europe, Mellon met Nora McMullen, a nineteen-year-old Englishwoman of Ulster Scots ancestry. Mellon visited McMullen's home of Hertford Castle in 1898 and 1899, and, after a period of courtship, Nora married Mellon in 1900. Nora gave birth to a daughter, Ailsa, in 1901. Nora disliked living in Pittsburgh, and she was unhappy in her marriage. By the end of 1903, she had begun an affair with Alfred George Curphey, who would also later be involved with the wife of George Vivian, 4th Baron Vivian. Mellon and Nora eventually reconciled, and in 1907 she gave birth to a son, Paul. The reconciliation proved short-lived, as Nora took up with Curphey again in 1908 and requested a divorce the following year. In order to avoid a public scandal, Andrew reluctantly agreed to a separation in 1909. Seeking to hold divorce proceedings privately before a judge rather than publicly before a jury, in 1911 Mellon convinced the Pennsylvania legislature to amend a law that had required a jury trial in divorce proceedings. In response, Nora attacked Mellon in the press, and the divorce proceedings were widely covered by the media. In 1912, Mellon and Nora finally agreed on a divorce settlement, largely on Mellon's terms.\n\nMellon did not remarry. Nora lived in Pittsburgh for several years before eventually settling in the Hudson Valley, and the two children alternated living with either parent. In 1923, Nora married Harvey Arthur Lee, a British-born antiques dealer 14 years her junior. Two years after the Lees' divorce in 1928, Nora Lee resumed the surname Mellon, at the request of her son, Paul. In the 1920s, while Mellon served as Secretary of the Treasury, Ailsa was courted by several influential men, including Otto Christian Archibald von Bismarck, Robert Horne, and Gelasio Caetani. In 1926, in the \"greatest society event that the nation's capital had witnessed\" since before World War I, Ailsa married David K. E. Bruce, son of Democratic Senator William Cabell Bruce of Maryland. After attending Yale University and the University of Cambridge, Paul briefly worked at Mellon National Bank. He later settled in Virginia, becoming a well-known philanthropist. Mellon's nephew, Richard King Mellon, succeeded Andrew as the head of the Mellon financial empire.\n\nEmulating his father, Mellon eschewed philanthropy for much of his life, but in the early 1900s he began donating to local organizations such as the YMCA. Mellon committed to his first large-scale act of philanthropy in 1913, when he and his brother, Richard, established the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research as a department of the University of Pittsburgh. In 1965, the institute merged with the Carnegie Institute of Technology to form Carnegie Mellon University. Mellon also served as an alumni president and trustee of the University of Pittsburgh, and made several major donations to the school, including the land on which the Cathedral of Learning and Heinz Chapel were constructed. In total it is estimated that Mellon donated over $43 million to the University of Pittsburgh.\n\nEncouraged by Frick, and guided by Charles Carstairs. Mellon began collecting art in the mid-to-late 1890s. Over the ensuing decades, his art collection continued to grow as he purchased pieces from Knoedler and Joseph Duveen, and during the 1920s his personal collection was generally considered to be one of the finest art collections in Washington. In the early 1930s, he purchased, according to Cannadine, just under half of the \"greatest paintings\" from the Soviet Union's Hermitage Museum in the Soviet sale of Hermitage paintings. Twenty-one paintings, of the highest quality, were later given to the National Gallery of Art.\n\nMellon decided to use his personal fortune and art collection to establish a national art museum in Washington modeled after the National Gallery in London. In 1936, Mellon presented President Roosevelt with an offer to establish a national art museum to which Mellon would donate his art collection as well as an endowment, while the federal government would pay for the institution's upkeep. He conditioned the offer on the establishment of a board of trustees, a majority of whom would be chosen by Mellon. Despite the ongoing tax case against Mellon, the Roosevelt administration accepted the offer, and Congress passed legislation authorizing the construction of the National Gallery of Art on Mellon's terms. The National Gallery of Art opened in 1941 and continues to operate. Mellon's friend and former employee, David E. Finley Jr., would later preside over the establishment of the National Portrait Gallery, which also hosts several paintings donated by Mellon.\n\nMellon was initiated to the Scottish Rite Freemasonry, till he raised the 33rd and highest degree.\n\nThe Andrew W. Mellon Memorial Fountain in Washington was created by Sidney Waugh and was dedicated in May 1952 by Harry S. Truman. Washington, D.C. also hosts the Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium and the Andrew Mellon Building. The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the product of the merger of the Avalon Foundation and the Old Dominion Foundation (set up separately by his children), is named in his honor, as is the 378-foot US Coast Guard Cutter \"Mellon (WHEC-717)\".\n\nAndrew W. Mellon appears in the HBO drama series \"Boardwalk Empire\", in the fifth, eighth and twelfth episodes of the third season, in his capacity as Secretary of the Treasury. His character is played by Carnegie Mellon alumnus James Cromwell.\n\nIn the alternate history/time travel story \"A Slip in Time\" by S. M. Stirling, featuring a history in which the First World War was avoided and the Austro-Hungarian Empire survived, Andrew Mellon was the President of the United States in 1926.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45714896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45714896", "title": "Anguillan bankruptcy law", "text": "Anguillan bankruptcy law\n\nAnguillan bankruptcy law regulates the position of individuals and companies who are unable to meet their financial obligations.\n\nBankruptcy of individuals is usually referred to as \"personal bankruptcy\" in Anguilla, whereas the bankruptcy of corporations is referred to as \"corporate insolvency\". The legislation largely deals with both separately, although there are some common provisions.\n\nPersonal bankruptcy is regulated under the Bankruptcy Act (Cap B.15). Under that statute, a person commits an act of bankruptcy if he or she:\n\nIf any of those conditions are made out, then the court may make a \"receiving order\" (which is the name for what is ordinarily called a bankruptcy order in Anguilla). On the making of a receiving order a receiver is constituted \"receiver\" of the property of the debtor, and thereafter no creditor to whom the debtor is indebted in respect of any debt provable in bankruptcy shall have any remedy against the debtor in respect of the debt or shall commence any action or other legal proceedings unless with the leave of the Court, and on such terms as the Court may impose. Thereafter a meeting of creditors is convened, and they may by resolution of 75% of creditors in value seek to implement an arrangement or compromise in relation to the debts of the bankrupt. If the meeting is not successful in implementing a scheme, then the court will appoint a trustee in bankruptcy who will divide the property of the bankrupt between his creditors in the discharge of their claims.\n\nAnguillan corporate insolvency law is presently highly fragmented, with various different parts of appearing in either the Bankruptcy Act (Cap B.15) or the Companies Act (Cap C.65). However, the matrix of laws is nonetheless fragmentary and incomplete. At present there are no provisions under Anguillan law in relation to corporate insolvency which address insolvency set-off, or the avoidance of dispositions after the commencement of winding-up. There are also no powers conferred upon the liquidator specifically relating to challenging transactions entered into the \"twilight\" period which prejudice the general body of creditors, but there is limited scope to seek redress for such transactions outside of the insolvency regime under the Fraudulent Dispositions Act (Cap F.60).\n\nHowever, the legislature is currently considering a comprehensive new Insolvency Act which will both close all of the relevant gaps in the law, and consolidate all related laws relating to both corporate insolvency and personal bankruptcy into a single statute.\n\nWhere a liquidator over a company is appointed (either voluntarily or by the court), the liquidator's primary duty is to collect in all of the company's assets and then distribute them \"pari passu\" to the company's creditors. The law confers wide powers upon the liquidator to enable him to do so. Once a liquidator is appointed, unsecured creditors cannot commence legal proceedings against the insolvent company without the leave of the court, and any rights of action against the company are converted into claims in the liquidation process. Any disposition of property by the company after the commencement of winding-up is void unless the court otherwise orders.\n\nSecured creditors generally do not participate in the liquidation process, and may continue to proceed with any enforcement action directly against their collateral pursuant to a valid security interest.\n\nAnguillan law provides for statutory netting relating to financial contracts under the Netting Act (Cap N.03), and this will prevail over any other off provisions arising by law.\n"}
{"id": "1040310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040310", "title": "Bill Inmon", "text": "Bill Inmon\n\nWilliam H. (Bill) Inmon (born 1945) is an American computer scientist, recognized by many as the father of the data warehouse. Inmon wrote the first book, held the first conference (with Arnie Barnett), wrote the first column in a magazine and was the first to offer classes in data warehousing. Inmon created the accepted definition of what a data warehouse is - a subject oriented, nonvolatile, integrated, time variant collection of data in support of management's decisions. Compared with the approach of the other pioneering architect of data warehousing, Ralph Kimball, Inmon's approach is often characterized as a top-down approach.\n\nWilliam H. Inmon was born July 20, 1945 in San Diego, California. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics from Yale University, and his Master of Science degree in computer science from New Mexico State University.\n\nHe worked for American Management Systems and Coopers & Lybrand before 1991, when he founded the company Prism Solutions, which he took public. In 1995 he founded Pine Cone Systems, which was renamed Ambeo later on. In 1999, he created a corporate information factory web site for his consulting business. \n\nInmon coined terms such as the government information factory, as well as data warehousing 2.0. Inmon promotes building, usage, and maintenance of data warehouses and related topics. His books include \"Building the Data Warehouse\" (1992, with later editions) and \"DW 2.0: The Architecture for the Next Generation of Data Warehousing\" (2008).\n\nIn July 2007, Inmon was named by Computerworld as one of the ten people that most influenced the first 40 years of the computer industry.\n\nInmon's association with data warehousing stems from the fact that he wrote the first book on data warehousing he held the first conference on data warehousing (with Arnie Barnett), he wrote the first column in a magazine on data warehousing, he has written over 1,000 articles on data warehousing in journals and newsletters, he created the first fold out wall chart for data warehousing and he conducted the first classes on data warehousing. \n\nIn 2012, Inmon developed and made public technology known as \"textual disambiguation\". Textual disambiguation applies context to raw text and reformats the raw text and context into a standard data base format. Once raw text is passed through textual disambiguation, it can easily and efficiently be accessed and analyzed by standard business intelligence technology. Textual disambiguation is accomplished through the execution of textual ETL.\n\nIn 2017, KDNuggets, a leading Data Science platform, published his article on \"Hearing the Voices of your Customer\". He was also interviewed in \"Data Podcast\" by Rajib Bahar, & Shabnam Khan about his latest work and how Big Data fits in the world of Data-warehousing.\n\nInmon published more than 55 books and 2,000 articles on data warehousing and data management. A selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "1034902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1034902", "title": "Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts", "text": "Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts\n\nBooker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts is a public secondary school located in the Arts District of downtown Dallas, Texas (USA). Booker T. Washington HSPVA enrolls students in grades 9-12 and is the Dallas Independent School District's arts magnet school (thus, it is often locally referred to simply as Arts Magnet). Many accomplished performers and artists have been educated in the school. Some examples include Ernie Banks, Norah Jones, Erykah Badu, Adario Strange, Valarie Rae Miller, Edie Brickell, Kennedy Davenport, Sandra St. Victor, Roy Hargrove, and Scott Westerfeld.\n\nIn 1892, Dallas established its first high school for African American pupils. In 1911, the school was enlarged and named the Dallas Colored High School. The school was moved in 1922 to larger quarters, designed by famed Dallas architects Lang & Witchell, and renamed Booker T. Washington High School, after the African-American education pioneer Booker T. Washington. For many years, it was the only Dallas high school that allowed students of color.\n\nIn 1939, Wilmer-Hutchins Colored High School of the Wilmer-Hutchins ISD burned down in a fire. Afterwards, African-American WHISD students were sent to DISD high schools for \"colored\" people such as Washington.\n\nIn 1942, teacher Thelma Paige Richardson sued the Dallas School District, demanding equalization of pay based upon tenure and merit; the school district denied that any discrimination was taking place. Richardson, with the help of the NAACP, won the case, increasing general awareness of discrimination in the public school system.\n\nIn 1952, it was enlarged yet again, and given the new name as Booker T. Washington Technical High School.\n\nIn 1976, the school was repurposed as the Arts Magnet at Booker T. Washington High School, inheriting and expanding the magnet-school arts curriculum that had been in place in the Performing Arts Cluster at Skyline High School since 1970. The Arts Magnet would become a prototype for magnet schools across the country. The repurposing was part of the Federal Court Desegregation Orders that created the Magnet School system in Dallas ISD (\"Tasby v. Estes\"\")\". Paul Baker was selected by Superintendent Estes has Founding Director of the School.\n\nIn 2008, the building was enlarged a third time. After receiving many grants, the school underwent a $65,000,000 expansion. .\n\nThe surrounding neighborhood has evolved into the Dallas Arts District and the school building is an official Dallas Landmark.\n\nIn 2008, a new $65 million facility designed by Brad Cloepfil, was completed. The main building, incorporated as an historical landmark, has been preserved.\n\nThe attendance rate for students at the school is 96%, equal with the state average of 96%. 32% of the students at Washington are economically disadvantaged, 2% enroll in special education, 31% enroll in gifted and talent programs, and 1% are considered \"limited English proficient.\"\nThe class of 2017 managed to receive over $60 million in offered scholarships and grants.\n\nThe ethnic makeup of the school is 42% White American, 21% African American, 30% Hispanic American, 3% Asian American/Pacific Islander American, and 1% American Indian/Alaskan Native.\n\nThe average class sizes at Washington are 20 students for English, 27 for foreign language, 19 for math, 22 for science, and 25 for social studies.\n\nNotable alumni include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31645347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31645347", "title": "Bread N' Butter", "text": "Bread N' Butter\n\nBread N' Butter (\"lit. Bread and Butter\") is a business and travel show produced by DSR Multimedia Productions and airs on UNTV. The program describes itself as a show \"that would inspire Filipinos to discover their entrepreneurial sense\". The program format is similar to a travel documentary where the main hosts venture and visit various kinds of business establishments. It also features solutions to business problems, which they claim to be helpful to the business-minded audience. It is currently hosted by Arlene Razon, Kitt Meily and Rodel Flordeliz and airs every Sunday on UNTV. The television show uses Taglish language as its means of communication. Bread N' Butter ceased airing on July 12 2016 there replacing Serbisyong Kasangbahay which airing on July 18 There rebranded both programming block on UNTV\n\nCancellation\n\nOn July 12 2016 is final episode Of Bread N' Butter to UNTV Life is rebranding UNTV News & Rescue two programming block Public Service which air on july 18\n\n\n\n2. Bread N' Butter on UNTVweb.com\n\n"}
{"id": "2876140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2876140", "title": "Brian Menell", "text": "Brian Menell\n\nBrian Menell is a South African businessman with interests in mining, oil & gas, agriculture & agri industry, and banking.\n\nMenell was born in 1965 in Johannesburg. His grandfather, Slip Menell, was the co-founder in 1932 of the Anglovaal Group, one of South Africa's largest diversified mining and industrial groups of companies. His father was the philanthropist and businessman, Clive Menell, who died in 1996; President Nelson Mandela gave the address at Clive's memorial service in Johannesburg.\n\nMenell was educated at the Rugby School in the UK. He holds a BA (Hons) from the University of Pennsylvania in Political Science and Economics.\n\nPrior to joining Anglovaal Group, Menell worked for the De Beers Group in London, Antwerp and Windhoek for eight years. He originally joined the company as a diamond sorter.\n\nMenell was Principal and Executive Director of Anglovaal Mining Ltd. which owned precious metal, base metal, ferrous metal and diamond interests across Southern Africa. Menell and his brother Rick retained control of Anglovaal until its sale in 2001 to create the largest South African empowerment controlled company, African Rainbow Minerals. During his time with Anglovaal he was also a 50% partner in the Venetia diamond mine. De Beers' acquisition of Anglovaal's interest in the mine for $600 million was the largest in the company's history.\n\nIn 2017 Brian founded and continues to serve as Chairman and CEO of TechMet Ltd, an investment vehicle for a portfolio of technology metal projects. TechMet acquires and manages projects that produce, process and recycle the key strategic technology metals that go into batteries, electric vehicles and robotics – cobolt, lithium, nickel, tin, tungsten, rare earth metals, vanadium and graphite.\n\nMenell is the Chief Executive Officer of the Kemet Group which invests in and manages mining and other natural resource projects across the African continent, and advises certain African governments on resource policy and major transactions. He also serves as Chief Executive of Tinco Investments Limited (an integrated Tin and Tungsten producer).\n\nMenell is a former Director and Chairman of Shore Gold Inc., one of Canada's largest diamond exploration companies.\n\nHe is also a former Chairman of Energem Resources Inc. and a former Chairman of First Africa Oil Plc.\n\nIn 2004, Menell became a founding partner and Executive Director of the A1 Grand Prix auto racing series. He is the Chairman of Agricor Ltd (an African fertiliser and feedstock company) and is a Director and Chairman of Sallfort Partners AG, a private banking joint venture headquartered in Zurich.\n\nThrough the SG Menell Charitable Fund, Menell invests in disadvantaged communities in both South Africa and the rest of the developing world.\nHe is married with two children.\n"}
{"id": "28138634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28138634", "title": "Carlos Moncayo", "text": "Carlos Moncayo\n\nCarlos Moncayo (Simplified Chinese 卡罗斯) is an Ecuadorian businessman best known for being co-founder and CEO of Asiam Business Group.\n\nMoncayo was born in Quito, Ecuador. He studied law at the Catholic University of Ecuador but took a break from his education to start Asiam Business Group. Despite not completing his undergraduate studies, he was admitted and received his MBA from Kellogg - HKUST Business School, being the first candidate to be admitted in this program without an undergraduate degree. Besides attending Kellogg he has also attended Willamette University, Stanford Graduate School of Business, CEIBS (China Europe International Business School) and Yale University.\n\nIn 2003, Moncayo co-founded, with his two brothers Luis Moncayo and Fernando Moncayo, Asiam Business Group, a boutique offshore manufacturing management company headquartered in China with sourcing offices in Vietnam, India and Pakistan. Moncayo now serves as CEO of Asiam Business Group. He is also co-founder and director of Startups Ventures, an organization that supports the education, networking and finance of entrepreneurs in Ecuador. In 2015, Carlos along with his brothers founded the SaaS company Inspectorio. He serves as the CEO of the company.\n\nHe has been featured or quoted in media outlets including \"Financial Times\" and \"BBC News\".\n\nMoncayo was selected as Asia’s Best Young Entrepreneur in 2009 by BusinessWeek magazine readers. being the first non-Asian to receive this honor. He was also named Business Man of the Year by the Ecuadorian Chinese Chamber of Commerce in 2009.\nMoncayo is the youngest permanent member of the World Entrepreneurship Forum, an invitation-only global think tank under the patronage of French President Nicolas Sarkozy where 100 prominent entrepreneurs, academicians and political decision makers from across the globe offer recommendations on how to foster entrepreneurship.\n\nIn 2010, he was selected New York City Venture Fellow, a program founded by New York City Mayor, Michael Bloomberg, targeted towards assisting rising international entrepreneurs to develop scalable businesses with global impact. He is the youngest Latin American CEO to join the G-50 (Grupo de los Cincuenta) forum. In 2012, he was named Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum.\n\nMoncayo has also been featured on \"Ideas Exchange\", a series from the BBC that pairs up business leaders from around the world to discuss the business landscape and their secrets to success. He was paired on an episode with Argentine-Spanish entrepreneur Martin Varsavsky.\n"}
{"id": "30439354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30439354", "title": "Certified Public Manager", "text": "Certified Public Manager\n\nThe Certified Public Manager₢ (CPM) is a United States professional designation established in 1979 for the purpose of improving performance and advancing best practice standards for public sector managers. The CPM is a comprehensive management development program based upon a selected set of competencies. The CPM is awarded upon completion of a CPM program accredited by the National Certified Public Manager Consortium. CPM graduates come from public, private, and non-profit career fields.\nThe words \"certified public manager\" are registered service marks by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.\n\nRequirements for the CPM vary by program, but all require at least 300 hours of training, including classes, application projects, structured readings, and examinations. Each CPM candidate is required to pass a series of courses centering on various management principles. The courses are designed around a set of core competencies and each CPM program requires an evaluation of all major curricular competencies.\n\nThe following competencies are present in all CPM curriculum:\nThe structure of CPM competencies arise from a holistic approach to management. Communication, organizational management, and ethical principles are emphasized as well as financial responsibility and effective change management. System thinking is introduced within the CPM program to emphasize the importance of broad open system management within organization. The program also places importance on personal development and change leadership.\n\nThe idea for the CPM began in the early 1970s at the University of Georgia with the realization that the state was experiencing explosive growth in information and knowledge, significant new social legislation, and rapidly altering social values. During this time the Carl Vinson Institute of Government and the Georgia Merit System were offering management training to public employees. It was recognized that these two organizations were offering duplications of training in some areas of management and were failing to meet the needs of other management areas. In 1974 University of Georgia’s Institute of Government, the Georgia Center for Continuing Education, and the Georgia State Merit System for Personnel Administration convened to discuss ways to broaden and refine Georgia state management training programs to meet the challenges of rapid change in the state and society. A consensus was reached that management in the state government needed to become more professional.\n\nKen Henning is considered the father of the CPM. He observed that most state training programs consisted of separate courses in which content was varied and lacked consistent focus. Henning felt that an integrated program would achieve a more organized approach to competencies needed by management. The CPM program was modeled after the CPA program, consisting of the creation of a coordinated program addressing specific and various training needs relevant to management as well as with content involving study and preparation, practice and application of learning, examination, and prestigious recognition. The CPM would also involve the eventual creation of the American Academy of Certified Public Managers similar to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants as a central capstone organization.\n\nPlanners believed that awarding certificates of attendance were insufficient in the creation of a program based on quality. Early planners for the CPM determined that an innovative and rigorous program of study, application of knowledge, examination, and certification should be developed. University courses and the Georgia Merit System collaborated to reduce training duplication, and maximize efforts. Initially a program was developed in which six courses would be taught, three by the Georgia Merit System and three by the University of Georgia. \nAfter a series of meetings, two long-term goals for the CPM were created:\n\n\nAfter gathering strong support for the CPM program from the governor, legislative leadership, top management of state agencies, University of Georgia, regional intergovernmental personnel assistance (IPA) offices of the U.S. Civil Service Commission, the University of Georgia’s Institute for Government and Center for Continuing Education and the Georgia State Merit System of Personnel Administration co-authored a detailed proposal.\n\nFebruary 9, 1976 the Georgia House of Representatives passed Resolution Act No. 97 in response to Governor Busbee’s request authorizing and directing the State Personnel Board and the State Merit System of Personnel Administration to implement the Certified Public Manager Program in the State Government of Georgia. On February 19, 1976 the Senate adopted the resolution and the legislature unanimously passed the resolution on February 26, 1976. On March 1, 1976 the CPM was formally established.\n\nIn 1977 the Georgia Society of Public Managers was created affiliated with a national organization to be known as the American Academy of Certified Public Managers. In 1980 the National CPM Consortium was developed with the completion of its constitution. The National CPM Consortium included Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, North Carolina, and Vermont. The role of the CPM Consortium is to direct the general nature in which each program should operate, but it is not designed to dictate curriculum or administrative specifics for each program. Since then, the CPM program has expanded across the United States.\n\nOn October 6, 1980 the Certified Public Manager Board ratified the constitution of the National Certified Public Manager® Consortium. The Consortium is designed to monitor accreditation standards and facilitate program development of CPM programs around the nation.\n\nThe CPM is linked with several professional organizations, including the American Academy of Certified Public Managers, an organization for individuals with CPM accreditation and the American Society for Public Administration (ASPA), which provides free membership for CPM graduates. Annually, the Texas CPM and ASPA host a CPM/ASPA conference. In 2007 a new ASPA section called the Section on Certified Public Management was created to promote professional development and training regarding ethical values and technical competencies associated with outstanding public service. In addition, the SCPM holds conferences, forums, seminars, and discussion events.\n\nThe Texas CPM program is designed to match professional development with the educational standards of ICMA.\n\nIn 2010 CPM began the first stage of international expansion by creating a CPM credential program for the Swedish National Defense College. The program will provide training for faculty, staff, and students in Sweden and the opportunity to attain CPM designation. The contract for the CPM program at the Swedish National Defense College was signed along with the William P. Hobby Center for Public Service which is affiliated with Texas State University - San Marcos and the National CPM Consortium. The program in Sweden is viewed as the first step toward more international expansion of the CPM.\n\nIn 2015, Leiden University Centre for Professional Learning in the Netherlands was the first international program to become a member of the National Certified Public Manager Consortium and be granted Associate status. Associate status grants authorization to develop an Accredited Certified Public Manager® Program. Leiden intends to develop a pilot multi-country program serving the European Union.\n\n\nAmerican Academy of Certified Public Managers http://www.cpmacademy.org/\n\nGood Governance Worldwide http://www.aspaonline.org/global\n\nNational Certified Public Manager® Consortium http://cpmconsortium.org\n"}
{"id": "41041887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41041887", "title": "Chinese Gold and Silver Exchange Society", "text": "Chinese Gold and Silver Exchange Society\n\nThe Chinese Gold and Silver Exchange Society is an organisation of gold trading firms in Hong Kong who are participants of the Chinese Gold and Silver Exchange, the first exchange in Hong Kong.\n\nThe CGSES was formally established as an organisation in 1910. Its founders were immigrants from mainland China. It eventually stopped trading silver, but gold trading saw significant growth after 1974 when the government loosened legal restrictions, and by 1979 trading volume was roughly one million ounces per day, making it one of the world's four largest gold trading centres along with London, New York City, and Zurich.\n\nMembers of the CGSES entitled to vote at its general meetings are one of two categories of persons eligible to register as Financial Services functional constituency electors, the other being exchange participants of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing. This gives them the right to elect a representative to the Legislative Council, as well seats in the Election Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "2645634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2645634", "title": "Cost principle", "text": "Cost principle\n\nIn accounting, the cost principle is part of the generally accepted accounting principles. Assets should always be recorded at their cost, when the asset is new and also for the life of the asset. For instance, land purchased for $30,000 is appraised at the much higher value because the housing market has risen, but the reported value of the land will remain $30,000.\n"}
{"id": "10560343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10560343", "title": "Differential accumulation", "text": "Differential accumulation\n\nDifferential accumulation is an approach for analysing capitalist development and crisis, tying together mergers and acquisitions, stagflation and globalization as integral facets of accumulation. The concept has been developed by Jonathan Nitzan and Shimshon Bichler.\n\nThe concept of differential accumulation emphasizes the powerful drive by dominant capital groups to beat the average and exceed the normal rate of return. This concept is tied to a definition of capital as a social category rather than a material category (as seen by neo-classical thinkers). \"Capitalism is not an ‘economic system’, but a whole social order, and its principal category of capital must therefore have an ‘encompassing’ definition.\"\n\n...capitalization is a forward-looking process. What is being accumulated are claims on the future flow of profit. The pace of accumulation therefore depends on two factors: (a) the institutional arrangements affecting profit expectations; and (b) the normal rate of return used to discount them into their present value. The effect of rising industrial capacity on these factors is not only highly complex and possibly non-linear, but its direction can be positive as well as negative.\n\nBut then if capital is not ‘tangible’, how should its accumulation be measured? Surely, the mere augmentation of money values tells us little about power, particularly in the presence of inflation or deflation. The answer is rooted in the relative nature of power. The power of the absentee owner is the power to control part of the social process, and that becomes meaningful primarily against the power of other owners.\n\nA firm can raise its profit through \"breadth\" by adding more employees to the organization. Conversely the firm can pursue \"depth\" by generating higher profit per employee. Each avenue of breadth and depth can be divided into pursuing differential accumulation through \"internal\" or \"external\" means. This gives us four categories of differential accumulation: internal breadth by amalgamation (buy or join other businesses), external breadth through greenfield investment (build new factories), internal depth via cost-cutting (make workers work harder or find ways to reduce the price of inputs), and external depth through stagflation (raise prices faster than the competition).\n\nNitzan and Bichler make several broad conclusions. \n(1) Of the four regimes, the most important are amalgamation and stagflation, which tend to oscillate inversely to each other. \n(2) Over the longer haul, amalgamation grows exponentially relative to green-field investment, contributing to the stagnation tendency of modern capitalism. \n(3) The wave-like pattern of mergers and acquisitions reflects the progressive break-up of socioeconomic ‘envelopes’, as dominant capital moves through successive amalgamation at the industry, sectoral, national, and, finally, global level. In this sense, they argue that the current global merger wave is an integral facet of differential accumulation. \n(4) Periodic lulls in amalgamation tend to be compensated for by stagflation, which appears as a crisis at the societal level, but which contributes significantly to differential accumulation at the disaggregate level. An end to the present worldwide merger boom could therefore trigger global stagflation. \n(5) Stagflation crises have been previously 'resolved' when dominant capital broke its existing envelope, pushing to amalgamate within a broader universe of takeover targets. Given that there is nothing more to conquer beyond the global envelope, Nitzan and Bichler argue that future stagflation crises may prove much more difficult to tame.\n\nDifferential accumulation theory sees stagflation oscillate inversely with periods where mergers and acquisitions are dominant as a major strategy of dominant capital groups to \"beat the market\" or exceed the normal, average rate of return on investments. If too many people try to \"beat the average\" a market imbalance results. Stagflation, which appears as a crisis at the societal level, contributes significantly to differential accumulation at the disaggregate level, that is, of dominant capital groups accumulating faster than smaller businesses. Since the 20th century, the dominant capital group which has benefited from stagflation has been the \"weapondollar-petrodollar coalition\" during periods of Mid-east crises and rising oil prices. These periods have oscillated between periods of relative \"peace\" during which mergers and acquisitions have been the dominant strategy for beating the average.\n\nDifferential accumulation theory shares some similarities with the \"supply shock\" theory where there are sudden price changes due to a reduction in supply. One effect of cumulative mergers and acquisitions is that can result in concentrating the power to limit supply among fewer entities.\n\nThe supply shock theory in political economy has focused mainly on the effect of OPEC (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) on the price of oil through the restriction of supply. This is similar to differential accumulation's look at the \"weapondollar-petrodollar coalition\" and OPEC. The similarity ends where differential accumulation places the cause of the price of oil in the creation of a global feeling of crisis and perceived scarcity because of conflicts in the Middle East, and not, as supply shock theories hold, on an actual reduction in supply.\n\nDifferential accumulation provides an alternative view to the Great Depression of the 1930s and the global financial crisis of 2008 - 2009. Both of these crises are crises of deflation, and thus crises of accumulation. Businesses not only try to beat the average rate of accumulation, but struggle to avoid the threat of deflation. Deflation brings social destabilization and threatens capitalist accumulation. \n\nThe overall debt burden of 2008 increases the deflationary threat over that from the Great Depression. Nitzan and Bichler state that the 2002 ratio of total debt to GDP in the US reached 290% - compared with 165% on the eve of the Great Depression. If prices begin to fall, they argue, firms will be unable to service their debt, which creates a risk of debt deflation, chain bankruptcies, and the collapse of accumulation. \"As the Great Depression unfolded falling nominal GDP caused the debt-to-GDP to soar to over 270%. a comparable drop now would push debt-to-GDP to over 400%\".\n\nNitzan and Bichler argue that the Great Depression brought deflation, not inflation (at least from an aggregate viewpoint). Gardiner Means (1935) showed in his study of the US during this period: smaller firms with little market power saw falling prices and only a moderate drop in output. Large firms were able to keep their prices relatively stable, and even raise them in some cases, and let output fall by as much as 80%.\n\nThey stipulate that the primary cause of these crises is not financial but a crisis of differential accumulation. Inflation was helpful for not only providing differential accumulation but also to forestall the threat of deflation. Mergers had been in hibernation since early 2000s, which resulted in a greater reliance on the socially disruptive tool of inflation as stagflation. The soaring price of oil from 2004 to 2008 helped to sustain inflation, but with a looming threat of cheap manufactured goods from developing countries. Deflation in 2008 had become a looming threat.\n\nInstead of focusing on the start of the US financial crisis, Nitzan and Bichler focus on bear markets, the periods during which stocks (as measured in constant-dollars) were in a downward trend or where each successive peak is lower than the previous one. By their reckoning a protracted Bear market has existed since 1999, which points to a much more entrenched accumulation crisis.\n\nNitzan and Bichler argue that there is nothing automatic about the shifts between bear and bull markets. Each crisis has had a different solution. They identify a number of bear markets in the last century and the unpredictable solutions that shifted capitalism back to bull markets:\n\nIf the 2009 US stimulus package, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and proposed US budget are any indication, the 2008-9 crisis may see a return to the Keynesian state, at least for the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "34814255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34814255", "title": "Doctor of Commerce", "text": "Doctor of Commerce\n\nThe Doctor of Commerce (DCom) is a doctoral degree in commerce-, accounting-, economics-, and management-related subjects, awarded by universities in the Commonwealth. The degree is offered both as a higher doctorate, and as a research doctorate.\n\nThe higher doctorate\nis awarded for published work of the candidate, demonstrating original contributions of \"special excellence\" in some branch of commerce. The candidate will be a graduate of the university in question.\n\nThe research doctorate is largely comparable to a PhD and in fact \"Doctor of Commerce\" may refer to a commerce-related PhD. Relatedly, at some universities the degree-title conferred will be a function of the candidate’s background: for example, in operations research, the degree may be a PhD or a DCom, depending on whether the candidate held a Master of Science or Master of Commerce respectively. Further, in some cases, the degree title may also depend on the area of the research: a thesis focused on a more theoretical area (e.g. \"finance\") will be awarded a PhD, while one focused on a specific area or function (e.g. financial management) will be awarded a DCom. Finally, in some cases the distinction will be whether the degree includes coursework or is entirely thesis based.\n\nThe research doctorate is usually accessed following a related master's degree, often the Master of Commerce. Here, there is generally a requirement that the master’s degree in question must include a research component, either comprising coursework with research, or being solely thesis-based.\n\n"}
{"id": "7261287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7261287", "title": "El Modelo Block", "text": "El Modelo Block\n\nThe El Modelo Block (also known as the Plaza Hotel) is a historic hotel in Jacksonville, Florida. It is located at 501-513 West Bay Street. On October 16, 1980, it was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\n"}
{"id": "57362496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57362496", "title": "Forrest Iandola", "text": "Forrest Iandola\n\nForrest Iandola is an American computer scientist and entrepreneur. While a graduate student at University of California, Berkeley, Iandola developed SqueezeNet, a lightweight deep neural network that has been deployed on smartphones and other embedded devices. Iandola is the co-founder of DeepScale, which develops energy-efficient deep learning technology for the automotive industry.\n\nIandola grew up in Pearl City, Illinois, and he later attended high school at the Illinois Math and Science Academy (IMSA) in Aurora, Illinois. After graduating from IMSA in 2008, Iandola completed a bachelor's degree in computer science at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) in 2012. Following that, Iandola completed a doctoral degree in electrical engineering and computer science at University of California, Berkeley in 2016.\n\nForrest Iandola and his doctoral research advisor Kurt Keutzer published a series of papers on improving the speed, memory usage, and energy-efficiency of deep neural networks. In 2016, Iandola, Keutzer, and their collaborators published a deep neural network architecture called SqueezeNet. The idea behind SqueezeNet was to develop a smaller neural network with fewer parameters that can more easily fit into memory and can more easily be transmitted over a computer network. By 2017, SqueezeNet had become one of the standard neural architectures that is released as part of deep learning frameworks such as Caffe2, Apache MXNet, and Apple CoreML. Companies including Baidu, Imagination Technologies, Synopsys, and Xilinx have demonstrated SqueezeNet running on low-power processing platforms.\n\nIandola and Keutzer co-founded DeepScale in September 2015. DeepScale is focused on bringing efficient deep learning to Advanced Driver Assistance Systems and Autonomous Vehicles. In 2018, DeepScale raised US $15 Million in Series A funding. The funding round was led by two funds: Point72, which is the personal fund of billionaire investor Steven A. Cohen, and next47, which is a billion-dollar venture fund backed by Siemens. DeepScale has strategic partnerships with Tier-1 automotive suppliers including Visteon and Hella Aglaia Mobile Vision GmbH. Iandola has been CEO of DeepScale since 2015.\n\nIandola received the National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate (NDSEG) Fellowship. This award funded the first three years of Iandola's doctoral research at University of California, Berkeley.\n\nIandola is married to Dr. Steena Monteiro.\n"}
{"id": "7535552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7535552", "title": "Foster Business Library", "text": "Foster Business Library\n\nThe Foster Business Library is the business library at the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington. As part of the university system of libraries, it serves the 3,500 students, faculty, and staff of the Foster School of Business. The 21,500 square-foot facility, which opened in 1997, is located under a garden, beneath an skylight, on two floors, connected with PACCAR Hall and adjacent to Dempsey Hall and the Bank of America Executive Education Center.\n\nThe library is located below-ground among the complex of buildings that comprise the Foster School of Business. The main entrance is located on the first floor of PACCAR Hall with an accessible entrance on the lower (basement) level. Previous to a 2009 renovation, the library's main entrance had been through the Bank of America Executive Education Center.\n\nThe library is named in honor of Albert O. and Evelyn W. Foster. A 1928 graduate of the University of Washington Business School, Albert Foster founded Seattle-based investment banking firm Foster & Marshall in 1938. Evelyn Foster was a 1932 graduate of the University of Washington. Albert and Evelyn were the parents of Michael G. Foster, for whom the Foster School of Business is named. Together, the Fosters established the Foster Foundation in 1984\n\nMade possible by a $3 million gift from the Foster Foundation in 1990, construction began in March 1995 with the library opening on June 23, 1997. A major renovation from 2009 to 2012 reoriented the library entrance through PACCAR Hall and increased seating and group study space.\n\nDuring the fall, winter, and spring quarters, the library is open Mondays through Thursdays from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m., on Fridays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., 12 noon to 5 p.m. on Saturdays, and 1 to 5 p.m. on Sundays. Hours are extended during exam weeks and shortened during the summer quarter, university holidays, and between quarters.\n\nFoster Library provides computers, printers, scanners, study tables, and reservable group study rooms equipped with flat-panel displays.\n\nThe Foster Library collection supports the study and practice of business management with books, periodicals, and research databases. The collection primarily includes material that supports professional practice and research in accounting, finance, management, marketing, information systems management, international business, operations management, and entrepreneurship. Complementary and similar materials are housed in other UW libraries, including Suzzallo-Allen Libraries, Odegaard Undergraduate Library, and the libraries at University of Washington Bothell and University of Washington Tacoma.\n\n"}
{"id": "36179972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36179972", "title": "Friedrich Honigmann", "text": "Friedrich Honigmann\n\nFriedrich Honigmann (2 March 1841 in Düren – 19 December 1913 in Aix-la-chapelle) was a German coal entrepreneur. He was founder of the mining company Sophia-Jacoba in Germany and co-founder of Oranje Nassau Mijnen in the Netherlands\n\n"}
{"id": "58098952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58098952", "title": "Future Bank", "text": "Future Bank\n\nFuture Bank B.S.C. () is a commercial bank that was based in Manama, Bahrain. It started as a joint venture by Ahli United Bank and two Iranian state-owned banks, Bank Melli and Bank Saderat.\n\nCentral Bank of Bahrain closed down the bank in 2016 after Bahrain cut diplomatic ties with Iran. In 2017, Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran licensed the bank to open a branch in Kish Island.\n \n"}
{"id": "30857863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857863", "title": "Hendrik Figee", "text": "Hendrik Figee\n\nHendrik Figee (Haarlem, May 28, 1838 – Haarlem, December 3, 1907) was a Dutch businessman and entrepreneur creditted with growing the Haarlem factory Figee into an international manufacturer of cranes.\n\nHe was the son of Hendrik Figee the elder who attended grade school and later became a surveyor. After passing his surveyor's exam, he went to work for his father in his steam engine factory on the Spaarne river. In 1866 he became full partner along with his brother Thomas and the company name changed to Gebroeders Figee (Figee brothers). He also helped start the crane manufacturing company Figee & De Kruyff in Amsterdam and the ironworks called the Haarlems IJzergieterij. In 1883 his brother Thomas bought the shipbuilding company Conrad on the other side of the Spaarne river. Werf Conrad had been named after the renowned Dutch engineer Frederik Willem Conrad (1800-1870). Figee wanted to make dredgers (baggermolens). The dredgers needed cranes on board, and these were supplied by Figee, which became a specialist in building cranes. He was a member of the board of the Maatschappij voor Nijverheid en Handel, Haarlem from 1898-1902 and was also a member of the board of the Colonial Museum, formerly located in villa Welgelegen.\n"}
{"id": "56791054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56791054", "title": "Hu Yanyan", "text": "Hu Yanyan\n\nHu Yanyan () is the president and director of China Guardian, the fourth largest auction house in the world. In 2015 she was named by the Financial Times as one of the five most powerful women in Asia’s art world.\n\nShe graduated from Nankai University with a Master of museology . \n\nAfter completing her studies she worked as an editor for publications at the Beijing Municipal Administration of Cultural Heritage. She joined China Guardian in 1993 as a specialist in paintings and calligraphy . \n\nShe launched the “Ancient Chinese paintings and calligraphy” auction category in 1998, and the “Chinese contemporary paintings and calligraphy\" auction category in 2006 , which has become the company's most popular category . \n"}
{"id": "18492365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18492365", "title": "International Foodservice Distributors Association", "text": "International Foodservice Distributors Association\n\nThe International Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA) is a trade association serving the foodservice distribution industry. Its members include foodservice distributors, foodservice manufacturers, and foodservice buying groups. Their largest membership base is from North America, but IFDA represents the industry internationally as well. IFDA traces its history to 1906 when the National Wholesale Grocers' Association (NWGA) was founded to promote food safety and represent the industry to government. In 1969, IFDA was created as a division of NAWGA to represent the specific needs of foodservice distribution. Eventually, IFDA began independent operation on January 1, 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4807105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4807105", "title": "Jerry Zucker (businessman)", "text": "Jerry Zucker (businessman)\n\nJerry Zucker (August 24, 1949 – April 12, 2008) was an Israeli-born American businessman and philanthropist.\n\nZucker was president and CEO of the InterTech Group. He was President and CEO of the Polymer Group at the time it acquired the Montreal-based Dominion Textile Company in 1997; he resigned from Polymer Group in 2003. In 2006, he acquired the Hudson's Bay Company of Canada, North America's oldest company, becoming its Governor (Company Chairman) and CEO. Zucker was also a part-owner of the South Carolina Stingrays of the ECHL. He ranked #354 on Forbes 400 Richest Americans and #746 on Forbes Billionaire List 2006. In 2008, Forbes placed his wealth at $1.2 billion USD. He held over 350 patents in his lifetime and donated millions of dollars to international medical missions as well as local charities.\n\nJerry Zucker was born 24 August 1949 in Tel Aviv, Israel, one of three children born to Leon Zucker and Zipora Zucker (née Shlifkovitz), the other two being his brother Jacob and his sister Rochelle. His parents were both Holocaust survivors. Zucker immigrated to the United States through Ellis Island in 1952. As a child, he lived in South Carolina, Florida, and New Jersey, where he attended Jewish day schools his parents helped found. As a young man, Zucker attended the University of Florida, majoring in Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics. He later earned an M.S. in Electrical Engineering.\n\nZucker passed away from a brain tumor 12 April 2008. Zucker was survived by his wife Anita, and by his children Jonathan Zucker, Andrea Muzin, and Jeffrey Zucker.\n\nAt the time of his death, Zucker had been married to Anita Goldberg, his high school sweetheart, for 38 years. Together, they had three children: Jonathan, Andrea, and Jeffrey. Zucker lived most of his adult life in Charleston, South Carolina \n\nTed Levin, president of the Emanu-el synagogue, said at Zucker's funeral:\n\nShortly after Zucker's death, the Charleston County School Board decided to name a new North Charleston middle school in his honor. The Jerry Zucker Middle School of Science opened on August 24, 2008, which would have been Zucker's 59th birthday.\n\nThe South Carolina Stingrays, of which Zucker was part owner, adorned their helmets with a \"JZ\" sticker; the practice continues. The team also recognized his contributions to the team and the community by inducting him into the Stingrays Hockey Hall of Fame on March 21, 2009. The Stingrays organization unveiled the Jerry Zucker Community Service award, to be given annually to the Stingrays player who had the greatest impact on the local community. The first to receive the award was Stingrays forward Spencer Carbery. The Jerry Zucker Ride for Hope, started in October 2008, provides fundraising efforts for cancer research at the Hollings Cancer Center at the Medical University of South Carolina.\n\nIn June 2009, Zucker's family made a donation of $2 million in Zucker's name to the Medical University of South Carolina. $1 million was allocated for the establishment of the Jerry Zucker Endowed Chair in Brain Tumor Research, an institution intended to support research and investigation into brain tumors. The remainder was used to support spinal cord research and provide neurological care and medical training in Tanzania.\n\n"}
{"id": "11596080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11596080", "title": "John Hilton (manufacturer)", "text": "John Hilton (manufacturer)\n\nJohn Hilton, (c. 1791 – 19 June 1866), was an English-born furniture manufacturer who is known to have been active in Montreal by 1808. He became one of the most successful businessmen in the city and the quality and quantity of his product gave confidence and impetus to a developing Canadian industry. His partner for a time, Edmond Baird, was an important artisan in this competitive business.\nI think he was single all his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "10778143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10778143", "title": "Khalid Ibrahim", "text": "Khalid Ibrahim\n\nTan Sri Dato' Seri Abdul Khalid bin Ibrahim (born 14 December 1946) is a Malaysian politician who served as the 14th Menteri Besar (Chief Minister) of the state of Selangor from 2008 to 2014. He was elected to the Selangor State Assembly and the Parliament of Malaysia in 2008 and 2013 as a member of the People's Justice Party (PKR), but became an independent in August 2014, coinciding with his resignation as Menteri Besar. He was sacked from the party for his refusal to vacate his Selangor Menteri Besar post.\n\nKhalid was born in the village of Kampung Jalan Raja Abdullah in Kuala Selangor district, Selangor. He graduated from the University of Malaya with a Bachelor's Degree in Economics and later obtained an MBA from the University of Queensland.\n\nKhalid began his career as a university lecturer. In 1979 he joined the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), the leading party in Malaysia's ruling Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition. In the same year, he became the chief executive of the government-controlled fund management firm Permodalan Nasional Berhad (PNB), a position he held until 1994. In 1981, he became famous for leading the \"dawn raid\" on the London Stock Exchange, which resulted in PNB gaining a 51% share in British plantation concern Guthrie in less than two hours. He later became the CEO of the Malaysianized Guthrie, now known as Kumpulan Guthrie Bhd, from 1995 to 2003.\n\nIn 2006, Khalid joined the opposition PKR, founded by the former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim, and became the party's treasurer-general. The party selected him as its candidate for a by-election for the Selangor State Legislative Assembly seat of Ijok, which he lost to K. Parthiban of the Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC), a component party of the ruling Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition.\n\nIn the 2008 general election, he contested the federal parliamentary seat of Bandar Tun Razak and re-contested the Selangor State Assembly seat of Ijok. He won both seats, while the opposition Pakatan Rakyat coalition made unprecedented gains and took a majority in the Selangor State Assembly. Khalid was appointed as the Menteri Besar of Selangor and was sworn in on 13 March 2008. He was the first person not of the BN coalition to hold the post.\n\nIn his first term, Khalid's government implemented a policy of delivering to each Selangor household an initial 20 cubic metres of water each year free of charge. The State Assembly also passed the country's first freedom of information legislation. It was in these areas—social policy and government transparency—that his administration was able to make the most progress. But in some cases, differences between the partners in the governing coalition, which included (the Democratic Action Party (DAP)) and the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS)), proved difficult to reconcile. For example, in 2009 Khalid rejected a move by PAS to draft legislation banning the sale of alcohol in Muslim-majority neighbourhoods.\n\nIn the 2013 general election, Khalid's Pakatan Rakyat coalition increased its majority in the Selangor State Assembly, winning 44 out of its 56 seats. Though Khalid's PKR won fewer seats than the DAP and PAS, he retained the position of Menteri Besar.\n\nIn early 2014, PKR's national leader, Anwar Ibrahim, then a federal parliamentarian, sought to contest the Selangor State Assembly seat of Kajang in a by-election. The so-called \"Kajang Move\" would have allowed Anwar to oust Khalid as Menteri Besar with PKR's support. Anwar's conviction on a charge of sodomy caused Anwar's wife, Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, to take over Anwar's presidency of PKR and the nomination as PKR candidate in the by-election instead, which she won. In July, the party nominated Wan Azizah as its preferred Menteri Besar. The following month, Khalid was expelled from the party after he refused to comply with its direction for him to resign as the state's premier and make way for Wan Azizah. Khalid sacked the PKR and DAP members of Selangor's Cabinet-like Executive Council, and continued to administer the state as an independent assemblyman with the remaining four councillors from PAS. Khalid ultimately resigned on 26 August 2014, as it being clear that he could no longer command the confidence of the State Assembly. He remained in office while Sultan Sharafuddin deliberated on whom to appoint as his replacement, before settling on PKR's deputy president Azmin Ali, who was sworn in on 23 September 2014. After Azmin assumed office, the Sultan praised Khalid for leading the state \"successfully and perfectly\" and criticised the manner in which he had been ousted from the state's premiership by his own party.\n\n"}
{"id": "26366213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26366213", "title": "Ladd &amp; Co.", "text": "Ladd &amp; Co.\n\nLadd & Company was an early business partnership in the Kingdom of Hawaii.\nIts founders were William Ladd (1807–1863), Peter Allen (or Allan) Brinsmade (1804–1859), and William Northey Hooper (1809–1878). The company was behind the first commercial sugarcane plantation and first international land speculation in the Hawaiian Islands.\n\nWilliam Ladd was born May 11, 1807, in Hallowell, Maine. His father, John Ladd, sailed for South America and died about 1820. The younger Ladd married Lucretia Goodale (1807–1874) who was related to an earlier missionary to Hawaii, Lucy Goodale Thurston. Ladd's daughter Mary (1840–1908) married Joseph Oliver Carter (1835–1909), son of another Bostonian, Captain Joseph Oliver Carter (1802–1850), sister of diplomat Henry A. P. Carter (1837–1891).\n\nPeter A. Brinsmade was born April 1, 1804, in New Hartford, Connecticut. He graduated from Bowdoin College in 1826 and attended Andover Seminary 1826–1828 and Yale Theological Seminary 1828–1829. He married Elizabeth Goodale of Hallowell, Maine, sister of Lucretia in 1830.\n\nWilliam Northey Hooper was born October 16, 1809, in Manchester, Massachusetts. His father was sea captain William Hooper (1771–1809) and mother was Sally Northey. Hooper married Charlotte Augusta Wood.\n\nThe six sailed on the \"Hellespont\" from Boston in 1832. They arrived in Honolulu July 27, 1833.\n\nThe first venture of Ladd & Co. was a store in Honolulu opened in July 1833. It was on a prime site of waterfront land at Honolulu Harbor, coordinates . Because of Brinsmade's theological training, they were sometimes called the \"Pious Traders\". The partners erected a large stone house and other buildings that served as family housing, offices, and storage. They would first use a sunken ship's hulk as a wharf, and later build a more permanent one. The business, however, barely supported their families.\n\nIn 1835 Ladd & Co. leased for a sugarcane plantation in Kōloa on the island of Kauai from Royal Governor Kaikioewa. The project had the support of conservative missionaries such as Hiram Bingham I.\n\nAlthough sugarcane had been raised by ancient Hawaiians on small personal plots, this was the first large-scale commercial production in Hawaii.\nJoseph Goodrich of the Hilo mission and Samuel Ruggles of the Kona Mission had experimented with using agriculture to support their missions as well as give employment to their students.\nAfter trying unsuccessfully to get Rev. Goodrich to run the operation, Hooper moved to the land as manager, despite having no training in engineering nor agriculture.\nThe first planting was in September 1835, and although a small amount of molasses was produced in 1836, the wooden rollers in the mill were replaced with iron ones for increased production.\nBy 1837, the mill produced over of sugar and of molasses .\nA subsequent mill, whose ruins are still visible, was built from 1839 to 1841. This Kōloa Sugar Mill is now a National Historic Landmark.\n\nOn April 13, 1839 Peter Brinsmade was appointed American consular agent after John Coffin Jones. This was originally an unpaid position of the lowest rank in the United States Department of State. In July 1844 he was promoted to the rank of Consul. William Hooper would act as deputy when Brinsmade was on his extended trip away from the islands. Their duties were reporting on commerce and protecting American citizens. Hooper sailed to Boston in 1840 but returned by May 1841.\n\nIn November 1841 the partners negotiated a much larger deal with William Richards, a former missionary who was now a political advisor. The idea was to form a joint stock company to develop all unoccupied land in the kingdom. Richards thought that adding a clause that invalidated the agreement unless Hawaii continued to be an independent country would help investors pressure world powers to protect its government. \nBrinsmade traveled back to the United States trying to find investors. He could not get any takers. He then went to Britain, and then France. He met up with Timothy Haalilio who was sent with Richards to negotiate for official recognition. Finally they seemed to find a partner in Belgium: Brinsmade convinced the Belgian Colonization Company headed by King Leopold I of Belgium on May 16, 1843, to sign a contract.\nThe agreement would transfer stock in Ladd & Co. to the Belgian investors in exchange for a badly needed infusion of cash.\n\nJust then news arrived that the Hawaiian islands had been taken under a military occupation called the Paulet Affair. The clause that was supposed to help guarantee Hawaii's independence now made the deal grind to a halt. James F. B. Marshall, a young associate of Ladd & Co., had secretly made his way to London with letters from Kamehameha III presenting his side of the occupation. Brinsmade met him in London and desperately negotiated with the British foreign office. Lord Aberdeen who was British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had been told by British Consul Richard Charlton that Americans were granted a land monopoly. Brinsmade convinced Aberdeen that he would be happy to take investors from any country, using the Belgium contract as his proof. Finally on November 28, 1844, a joint declaration with Britain and France recognized Hawaii's independence. Marshall had returned to Hawaii while Richards and Haalilio tried to get the United States to also recognize the Hawaiian Kingdom.\nBrinsmade stayed in Europe trying to collect, but the investors were now wary. Meanwhile, Ladd & Co. was borrowing heavily to finance new facilities for its expected expansion. Some of this money came from the King himself. The U.S. State Department replaced Brinsmade as Consul during his absence in January 1845 by Alexander G. Abell.\nFor the first time, a diplomatic representative called \"Commissioner\", George Brown, also was appointed in March 1843, in addition to the trade representative.\nGerrit P. Judd, the Finance Minister of the Kingdom, realized the government itself was short of cash and called in their loan. Judd and Richards convinced the Hawaiian government to disavow the deal. At least one historian notes a factor in losing the support of the American Protestant missionaries was the fact that the Belgians were generally Catholic.\n\nWhen a newspaper report on Ladd's shaky financial situation got back to Belgium, the investors pulled out of the deal for good. Brinsmade returned to Hawaii empty-handed in March 1846.\n\nWith no incoming cash, the Honolulu Ladd & Co. had shut down in November 1844. \nAs the company liquidated, they felt they were owned money by the government, but the case required lengthy arbitration.\nBoth the British and Americans accused the Kingdom of being biased against them.\n\nThen Brinsmade sued newspaper publisher James Jackson Jarves for libel for publishing the story.\nThere was now an official Attorney General for the first time in Hawaii: John Ricord. However, several parties to the lawsuits did not recognize his authority, so this case was added to the arbitration. In June 1846 the new American Commissioner Anthony Ten Eyck arrived, who served as lawyer for the company. Joel Turrill took over as the new Consul. After many hearings, which were treated as entertaining theater by the Honolulu residents, Ladd & Co. gave up recovering anything.\nBy October 1846 Charles Reed Bishop and William Little Lee arrived from New York. Lee would organize a court system and become its chief justice. Bishop would help sort out the accounts of Ladd & Co., then start Hawaii's first bank and inherit the largest landholdings in the islands.\n\nThe old Ladd store and house complex was auctioned off, and one of the new tenants was Robert Cheshire Janion, founder of what would become Theo H. Davies & Co. Part of their wharf was used by Charles Brewer of C. Brewer & Co. These became two of the \"Big Five\" corporations dominating the Hawaiian economy in later decades.\nThe Kōloa plantation was repossessed by the Hawaiian government and sold to Robert Wood, Hooper's brother-in-law, who ran it until 1874. \nIt was purchased by the McBryde family in 1899, who operated it until shut down in 1996 as part of Alexander & Baldwin.\n\nBrinsmade published a few articles in a new newspaper called the \"Sandwich Islands News\" which had been started to counter Jarves' paper.\nBrinsmade sailed to San Francisco as part of the California Gold Rush, where he worked for newspapers and attempted various businesses for prospectors. \nHe returned to Massachusetts where he died October 6, 1859.\n\nHooper also sailed to San Francisco in November 1848 and worked for Cross, Hobson & Co. where he died on December 31, 1878.\n\nLadd died February 8, 1863, in Honolulu.\nLadd and his brother, John Ladd, who died October 11, 1859, were buried in Oahu Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51391343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51391343", "title": "Le Commerce du Levant", "text": "Le Commerce du Levant\n\nLe Commerce du Levant is a Lebanese monthly economic magazine published in French language in Lebanon covering various aspect including economy, commerce, industry, tourism, banking and finance.\n\n\"Le Commerce du Levant\" was established in 1929. The headquarters is in Beirut. It was formerly published on a weekly basis. The magazine is published monthly by Société de presse et d’édition libanaise S.A.L. that also publishes the French Lebanese daily \"L'Orient-Le Jour\". Nayla de Freige is the president-director general of the publication.\n\nThe magazine covers articles about business and commerce related to both Lebanon and the Middle East.\n\n"}
{"id": "36270215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36270215", "title": "List of chained-brand hotels", "text": "List of chained-brand hotels\n\nThis is the list of chained-brand hotels around the world. This is a listing of some of the major hotel brands worldwide. The hotel groups may directly own the hotels, or operate them through a franchise or management agreement.\n"}
{"id": "16803489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16803489", "title": "Lowertown Historic District (Saint Paul, Minnesota)", "text": "Lowertown Historic District (Saint Paul, Minnesota)\n\nThe Lowertown Historic District is a historic district in the Lowertown neighborhood of Saint Paul, Minnesota, United States. This 16-block warehouse and wholesaling district comprises 37 contributing properties built 1870s–1920. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1983 for the significance of its river and rail connections, economic impact, architecture, and urban planning. Lowertown was originally the lower landing on the Mississippi River; the first port of access to the Twin Cities. Several warehouse, railroad, banking, and distribution buildings served the entire Upper Midwest from 1880 to 1920. A significant concentration of these buildings survive, unified by similar architectural styles and construction materials. Many were designed by the city's most prestigious architects, including Cass Gilbert and Clarence Johnston, Sr.\n\nThe Lowertown neighborhood declined after the Depression. The renovation of the Merchant's National Bank Building (now McColl Building) in the late 1960s was the first project to focus attention on revitalization potential. The conversion of the Noyes Brothers and Cutler Building into a complex of offices, shops, and restaurants (now known as Park Square Court) soon followed. The city's Housing and Redevelopment Authority (HRA) became involved in 1973 when Mears Park was redesigned by William Sanders and renamed after Norman B. Mears, a Saint Paul businessman.\n\nIn April, 1978 the Lowertown Redevelopment Corporation (LRC) was organized with the goal of creating “a place for people, a highly livable urban village in the midst of the city, which will bring new jobs, housing, commercial development, and year round activities to Lowertown and infuse the city with renewed vitality.” Enabled by an unprecedented $10 million grant by the McKnight Foundation, the LRC assumed the role and responsibility of driving the revitalization of Lowertown. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, artists moved to Lowertown, attracted by low rents, raw space and relative quiet. This new population began to bring life to the buildings and the streets of Lowertown. Initiated by the LRC and supported fully by the City of St. Paul, Lowertown was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1983; the next year, the City of St. Paul designated the Lowertown Historic District as a Heritage Preservation Site.\n\nAided by these designations and the associated tax credits, Artspace, the LRC, the City and others partnered to renovate three buildings dedicated to the arts. The Lowertown Artists Lofts Cooperative, the Tilsner and the Northern Warehouse were renovated and became the anchors for the arts community. Throughout the years, there has been a steady commitment to incrementally reinvest in the assets of Lowertown. Instead of demolishing and building new, Lowertown remained committed to a slow, deliberate and steady approach to redevelopment. This approach allowed Lowertown to remain a relatively quiet neighborhood on the edge of downtown. Such an approach was particularly supportive of the artist community, as it respected the financial and environmental needs of working artists. In 1982, the St. Paul Farmers’ Market moved to Lowertown. An institution since the late 1800s, the Farmers’ Market was an anomaly of sorts for Lowertown - it was a destination in the middle of a relatively quiet neighborhood. The market now draws 20,000 people each weekend in the summer. In 2006 the LRC transformed into the Lowertown Future Fund to continue supporting Lowertown redevelopment.\n\nNew residences have been built in the neighborhood, attracting new residents paying market rate for condominiums. Restaurants, festivals, weddings and other regional attractions, such as the restored Union Depot, have opened in Lowertown. (Greater Lowertown Master Plan, 2011) The St. Paul Art Crawl is held twice a year (Spring and Fall) and exemplifies the cultural atmosphere that local residents have worked so hard to maintain. In late 2013, USA Today named Lowertown 1 of \"10 up-and-coming neighborhoods around the USA\" after it was announced RealtyTrac named Lowertown at the top of its \"hipster zip codes\" list. The \"hipster\" designation implies the neighborhood's high proportion of \"people between 25 and 34 years old who use public transportation and rent their housing.\" \n\nIn 2015, the St. Paul Saints professional baseball team opened its season in the new CHS Field. The stadium stands in the space of the former Gilette/Diamond Products plant at 5th Street and Broadway. Designs for the stadium were presented to the public in December 2013. Art installations from local artists adorn the exterior of the ballpark. Despite its name, the CHS Field sits outside the official 18 blocks that make up the Lowertown Heritage Preservation District, roughly bound by Kellogg Boulevard, Broadway, 7th Street and Jackson Street.\n\nPreviously known as Smith Park, Park Square, and Baptist Hill, Mears Park is bounded by 5th, 6th, Sibley and Wacouta streets. The site was originally the home of the First Baptist congregation, who built their church on top of a hill in the middle of a city block. In 1849 the land was donated to the city by a man named Robert Smith after the church expanded to a new location a few blocks north. The hill was leveled and the square was formally created in 1888.\n\nFor most of the next century, the park was a traditional city square with a central fountain and sidewalks radiating about it. In the early 1970s, the park became known as the “Brickyard” after a renovation covered much of the square in bricks. After his death in 1974, the park was officially renamed after Norman Mears, a St. Paul inventor in the printing and etching field; his inventions were used to fight World War II and make color televisions. After retirement, Mears had set his sights on the revitalization of Lowertown.\n\nModern-day Mears Park was opened in 1992 following a major reconstruction designed by landscape architect Don Ganje and artist Brad Goldberg. The new design received rave reviews for brilliantly mixing natural and manmade elements, from the rocky stream to the metal bandshell, and has proven popular year after year. Today the park sits in the middle of a re-energized Lowertown, hosting handfuls of fairs and festivals throughout the season including Music in Mears the Twin Cities Jazz Festival and Concrete and Grass Music Festival. Volunteers known as the Friends of Mears Park maintain the gardens.\n\nCrane and Ordway manufactured valves, fittings, and supplies for steam engines. Rogers and Ordway was the successor company to Wilson & Rogers, the oldest firm in the line of plumbing and steam fittings in the Northwest. At one time, The Crane Company was the largest manufacturer of valves, fittings, and steam supplies in the world, employing over 3,000 men at the factory in Chicago factory. In 1892 Crane bought out the Rugg-Fuller Company in Minneapolis.\n\nOn January 1, 1893 Richard Teller Crane of Chicago, Illinois and Lucius Pond Ordway of St. Paul, Minnesota incorporated the Crane & Ordway Company. It consolidated the firms of Rogers and Ordway of St. Paul and Duluth with a branch of the Crane Co. in Minneapolis, uniting all the large interests in this line of business in the Northwest. Lucius Ordway, became vice president and general manager of Crane & Ordway. Ordway came to St. Paul from Providence, E. I., in 1883 and worked for Wilson & Kogers until 1886, when he became a member of the firm of Rogers & Ordway,\n\nThe company dealt in a general line of pipe, fittings, boilers, pumps, pumping machinery, and plumbers' and steam-fitters' supplies. It did an extensive business in well-drilling machinery, windmills, and large irrigating plant outfits of all descriptions, furnishing estimates and designs and complete plans for water works. Crane later became part of American Standard. Mr. Ordway went on to help build the 3M company.\n\nThe building, completed in 1904, was designed by Reed and Stem, the architectural firm that designed Grand Central Terminal in New York and the St. Paul Hotel in downtown St. Paul. It had been vacant for 30 years prior to Aeon, a non-profit developer of affordable housing, restoring it in 2006. The historic warehouse now offers 70 units of affordable rental apartments.\n\nArchitects who contributed to the neighborhood include Cass Gilbert, J. Walter Stevens, and Charles Sumner Frost.\n"}
{"id": "1032982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1032982", "title": "Marine reserve", "text": "Marine reserve\n\nA marine reserve is a type of marine protected area that has legal protection against fishing or development. As of 2007 less than 1% of the world’s oceans had been set aside in marine reserves. Benefits include increases in the diversity, density, biomass, body size and reproductive potential of fishery and other species within their boundaries.\n\nAs of 2010, scientists had studied more than 150 marine reserves in at least 61 countries and monitored biological changes inside the reserves. The number of species in each study ranged from 1 to 250 and the reserves ranged in size from 0.006 to 800 square kilometers (0.002 to 310 square miles). In 2014, the World Parks Association adopted a target of establishing no-take zones for 30% of each habitat globally.\n\nA review of studies of 34 families (210 species) of coral reef fishes demonstrates that the design of a marine reserve has important implications for its ability to protect habitat and focal species.\n\nEffective reserves included habitats that support the life history of focal species (e.g. home ranges, nursery grounds, migration corridors and spawning aggregations), and were located to accommodate movement patterns among them.\n\nMovement patterns (home ranges, ontogenetic shifts and spawning migrations) vary among and within species, and are influenced by factors such as size, sex, behaviour, density, habitat characteristics, season, tide and time of day. For example, damselfishes, butterflyfishes and angelfishes travel <0.1–0.5 km, while some sharks and tuna migrate over thousands of kilometres. Larval dispersal distances tend to be <5–15 km, and self-recruitment to new habitat is common.\n\nThe review indicated that effective marine reserves are more than twice the size of the home range of focal/target species (in all directions). The presence of effective marine management outside the reserve may allow smaller reserves. Reserve size recommendations apply to the specific habitats of focal species, not the overall size. For example, coral reef species require coral reef habitats rather than open ocean or seagrass beds.\n\nMarine reserve whose boundaries are extensively fished benefit from compact shapes (e.g., squares or circles rather than elongated rectangles). Including whole ecological units (e.g., an offshore reef) can reduce exports where that is desired.\n\nMinimum sustainable population sizes have not been determined for most marine populations. Instead, fisheries ecologists use the fraction of unfished stock levels as a proxy. Meta-analyses suggest that maintaining populations above ∼37% of those levels generally ensures stable populations, although variations in fishing pressure allow fractions as small as 10% or as large as 40% (to protect species such as sharks and some grouper that have lower reproductive output or slower maturation). Higher fractions of habitat protection may protect areas vulnerable to disturbances such as typhoons or climate change. 20–30% protection can achieve fisheries objectives in areas with controlled fishing pressure and is the minimum level of habitat protection recommended by IUCN-WCPA.\n\nMany fish species congregate to facilitate spawning. Such congregations are spatially and temporally predictable and increase the species' vulnerability to overfishing. Species such as groupers and rabbitfishes travel long distances to congregate for days or weeks. Such gatherings are their only opportunities to reproduce and are crucial to population maintenance. Species such as snappers and parrotfishes congregate in feeding or resting areas. Juveniles may congregate in nursery areas without adults. Such special areas may require only seasonal protections if at other times no vital activities are taking place. Such reserves must be spaced to allow focal species to journey among them. If the location of such special areas is unknown, or is too large to include in a reserve, management approaches such as seasonal capture and sales restrictions may provide some protection. Sea turtle nesting areas, dugong feeding areas, cetacean migratory corridors and calving grounds are examples of other special areas that can be protected seasonally. Other types of special areas include isolated habitats that have unique assemblages and populations, habitats that are important for endemic species and highly diverse areas.\n\nIsolated populations (e.g.,those on remote atolls) have high conservation value where they harbor endemic species and/or unique assemblages. A location or population 20–30 km from its nearest neighbor generally qualifies as isolated in the absence of a persistent linking current. Their isolation (low connectivity) requires such areas to be largely self-replenishing. This leaves them less resilient to disturbance. Sustaining their marine species requires a higher fraction of living areas to be protected.\n\nCoral reef fish species recovery rates (from e.g., overfishing) depend on their life history and factors such as ecological characteristics, fishing intensity and population size. In the Coral Triangle, species at lower trophic levels that have smaller maximum sizes, faster growth and maturation rates and shorter life spans tend to recover more quickly than species having the opposite characteristics. For example, in the Philippines, populations of planktivores (e.g., fusiliers) and some herbivores (e.g., parrotfishes) recovered in \"<\"5–10 years in marine reserves, while predators (e.g., groupers) took 20–40 years. Increased fishing pressure adversely affects recovery rates (e.g., Great Barrier Reef and Papua New Guinea).\n\nLong-term protection allows species with slower recovery rates to achieve and maintain ecosystem health and associated fishery benefits. Permanent protection protects these species over the long-term. Short-term protections do not allow slow-recovering species to reach or maintain stable populations.\n\nIn some Coral Triangle countries (e.g., Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands), short term protections are the most common form of traditional marine resource management. These protections can help address problems at lower trophic levels (e.g., herbivores) or allow spawning to succeed. Other reasons for adopting short-term protections include allowing communities to stockpile resources for feasts or close areas for cultural reasons. Short-term/periodic reserves also may function as partial insurance by enhancing overall ecosystem resilience against catastrophes. Reopened reserves can be protected by management controls that limit the harvest to less than the increase achieved during closure, although at greatly reduced recovery rates.\n\nSome habitats and species are better prepared environmental changes or extremes. These include coral communities that handle high sea surface temperature (SST); areas with variable SSTs and carbonate chemistry and areas adjacent to undeveloped low-lying inland areas that coastal habitats can expand into as sea levels rise. Such areas constitute climate change refugia and can potentially better protect biodiversity than more fragile areas. They may also provide fishery benefits, since habitat loss from climate change is a major fishery threat.\n\nLocal practices such as overfishing, blast fishing, trawling, coastal development and pollution threaten many marine habitats. These threats decrease ecosystem health and productivity and adversely affect focal and other species. Such practices can also decrease resilience. Some practices that originate beyond reserve boundaries (e.g., runoff) can be mitigated by considering their impacts within broader management frameworks. Areas that are not threatened by such practices and that are adjacent to other unthreatening areas may be better choices for reserves.\n\nNetworks of marine reserves can support both fisheries management and biodiversity conservation. The size, spacing and location of reserves within a network must respect larval dispersal and movement patterns of species that are targeted for protection.\n\nExisting ecological guidelines for designing networks independently focus on achieving either fisheries, biodiversity or climate change objectives or combinations of fisheries and biodiversity or biodiversity and climate change. These three goals have different implications for network design. The most important are reserve size and protection duration (permanent, long term, short term, or periodic closures).\n\nMaintaining diversity involves protecting all species. Generally this involves protecting adequate examples of each major habitat (e.g., each type of coral reef, mangrove and seagrass community). Resiliency to threats improves when multiple examples of each habitat are protected.\n\nTo address biodiversity or climate change, reserves 4–20 km across are recommended, because they protect larger populations of more species.\n\nProtecting areas that have already proven resilient to ecological changes and/or are relatively well-protected by other protocols are likely to better survive climate change as well.\n\nReserves 0.5–1 km across export more adults and larvae to fished areas, potentially increasing recruitment and stock replenishment there. Such small reserves are common in the Coral Triangle, where they benefited some fisheries.\n\nConnectivity is the linking of local populations through the (voluntary) dispersal of individuals. Connected reserves are close enough to each other that larvae, juveniles or adults can cross from one to another as their behavior patterns dictate. Connectivity is a key factor in network design, since it allows a disturbed reserve to recover by recruiting individuals from other, potentially overpopulated, reserves. Effective networks spaced reserves at distances of <15 km from each other, with smaller reserves spaced more closely.\n\nMost coastal fish species have a bipartite life cycle where larvae are pelagic before settling out of the plankton to live on a reef. While these fish travel varying distances during their life history, their larvae have the potential to move 10s–100s of km, more than the more sedentary adults and juveniles, which have home ranges of <1 m to a few km. Adults and juveniles of some species travel 10s–100s of kilometers as they mature to reach appropriate habitats (e.g., such as coral reef, mangrove and seagrass habitats) or to migrate to spawning areas. When adults and juveniles leave a marine reserve, they become vulnerable to fishing. However, larvae can generally leave a reserve without elevated risk because of their small size and limited fishery exposure. Effective networks account for the movement patterns of target species at each life cycle stage.\n\nGiven a strong, consistent current, siting marine reserves upstream increases downstream populations.\n\nMarine reserves are distinct marine parks, but there is some overlap in usage.\n\nAs of April 2008 no high seas marine reserves had been established. Greenpeace is campaigning for the \"doughnut holes\" of the western pacific to be declared as marine reserves and for 40 percent of the world’s oceans to be so protected.\n\n\nNew Zealand has 37 marine reserves spread around the North and South Islands and other outlying islands. These are 'no take' areas where all forms of exploitation are prohibited. Marine reserves are administered by the Department of Conservation. New Zealand's marine environment is more than 15 times larger than its terrestrial area, however only 9.5% of New Zealand's territorial waters are in marine reserves, while 0.4% of New Zealand's exclusive economic zone (EEZ) is currently protected.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "63082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63082", "title": "Market trend", "text": "Market trend\n\nA market trend is a perceived tendency of financial markets to move in a particular direction over time. These trends are classified as \"secular\" for long time frames, \"primary\" for medium time frames, and \"secondary\" for short time frames. Traders attempt to identify market trends using technical analysis, a framework which characterizes market trends as predictable price tendencies within the market when price reaches support and resistance levels, varying over time.\n\nA trend can only be determined in hindsight, since at any time prices in the future are not known.\n\nThe terms \"bull market\" and \"bear market\" describe upward and downward market trends, respectively, and can be used to describe either the market as a whole or specific sectors and securities. The names perhaps correspond to the fact that a bull attacks by lifting its horns upward, while a bear strikes with its claws in a downward motion.\n\nA secular market trend is a long-term trend that lasts 5 to 25 years and consists of a series of primary trends. A secular bear market consists of smaller bull markets and larger bear markets; a secular bull market consists of larger bull markets and smaller bear markets.\n\nIn a secular bull market the prevailing trend is \"bullish\" or upward-moving. The United States stock market was described as being in a secular bull market from about 1983 to 2000 (or 2007), with brief upsets including the crash of 1987 and the market collapse of 2000–2002 triggered by the dot-com bubble.\n\nIn a secular bear market, the prevailing trend is \"bearish\" or downward-moving. An example of a secular bear market occurred in gold between January 1980 to June 1999, culminating with the Brown Bottom. During this period the nominal gold price fell from a high of $850/oz ($30/g) to a low of $253/oz ($9/g), and became part of the Great Commodities Depression.\n\nA primary trend has broad support throughout the entire market (most sectors) and lasts for a year or more.\n\nA bull market is a period of generally rising prices. The start of a bull market is marked by widespread pessimism. This point is when the \"crowd\" is the most \"bearish\". The feeling of despondency changes to hope, \"optimism\", and eventually euphoria, as the bull runs its course. This often leads the economic cycle, for example in a full recession, or earlier.\n\nAn analysis of Morningstar, Inc. stock market data from 1926 to 2014 found that a typical bull market \"lasted 8.5 years\nwith an average cumulative total return of 458%\", while annualized gains for bull markets range from 14.9% to 34.1%.\n\nA bear market is a general decline in the stock market over a period of time. It is a transition from high investor optimism to widespread investor fear and pessimism. According to The Vanguard Group, \"While there's no agreed-upon definition of a bear market, one generally accepted measure is a price decline of 20% or more over at least a two-month period.\"\n\nA smaller decline of 10 to 20% is considered a correction. Once a market enters correction or bear market territory, it isn't considered to have exited that territory until a new high is reached.\n\nAn analysis of Morningstar, Inc. stock market data from 1926 to 2014 found that a typical bear market \"lasted 1.3 years\nwith an average cumulative loss of −41%\", while annualized declines for bear markets range from −19.7% to −47%.\n\nA market top (or market high) is usually not a dramatic event. The market has simply reached the highest point that it will, for some time (usually a few years). It is retroactively defined as market participants are not aware of it as it happens.\nA decline then follows, usually gradually at first and later with more rapidity.\nWilliam J. O'Neil and company report that since the 1950s a market top is characterized by three to five distribution days in a major market index occurring within a relatively short period of time. Distribution is a decline in price with higher volume than the preceding session.\n\nA recent peak for the broad U.S. market was October 9, 2007. The S&P 500 index closed at 1,565 and the Nasdaq at 2861.50.\n\nA market bottom is a trend reversal, the end of a market downturn, and the beginning of an upward moving trend (bull market).\n\nIt is very difficult to identify a bottom (referred to by investors as \"bottom picking\") while it is occurring. The upturn following a decline is often short-lived and prices might resume their decline. This would bring a loss for the investor who purchased stock(s) during a misperceived or \"false\" market bottom.\n\nBaron Rothschild is said to have advised that the best time to buy is when there is \"blood in the streets\", i.e., when the markets have fallen drastically and investor sentiment is extremely negative.\n\nSecondary trends are short-term changes in price direction within a primary trend. They may last for a few weeks or a few months.\n\nOne type of secondary market trend is called a market correction. A correction is a short-term price decline of 5% to 20% or so. An example occurred from April to June 2010, when the S&P 500 went from above 1200 to near 1000; this was hailed as the end of the bull market and start of a bear market, but it was not, and the market turned back up. A correction is a downward movement that is not large enough to be a bear market (ex post).\n\nAnother type of secondary trend is called a bear market rally (sometimes called \"sucker's rally\" or \"dead cat bounce\") which consists of a market-price increase of only 10% or 20% before the prevailing, bear-market trend resumes. Bear market rallies occurred in the Dow Jones index after the 1929 stock market crash, leading down to the market bottom in 1932, and throughout the late 1960s and early 1970s. The Japanese Nikkei 225 has tracked a number of bear-market rallies since the late 1980s while experiencing an overall long-term downward trend.\n\nMalcolm Maiden characterized the Australian market as a \"meerkat market\", being timid with low consumer- and business-sentiment.\n\nThe price of assets such as stocks is set by supply and demand. By definition, the market balances buyers and sellers, so it's impossible to literally have 'more buyers than sellers' or vice versa, although that is a common expression. For a surge in demand, the buyers will increase the price they are willing to pay, while the sellers will increase the price they wish to receive. For a surge in supply, the opposite happens.\n\nSupply and demand are created when investors shift allocation of investment between asset types. For example, at one time, investors may move money from government bonds to \"tech\" stocks; at another time, they may move money from \"tech\" stocks to government bonds. In each case, this will affect the price of both types of assets.\n\nGenerally, investors try to follow a buy-low, sell-high strategy but often mistakenly end up buying high and selling low. Contrarian investors and traders attempt to \"fade\" the investors' actions (buy when they are selling, sell when they are buying). A time when most investors are selling stocks is known as distribution, while a time when most investors are buying stocks is known as accumulation.\n\nAccording to standard theory, a decrease in price will result in less supply and more demand,\nwhile an increase in price will do the opposite. This works well for most assets but it often works in reverse for stocks due to the mistake many investors make of buying high in a state of euphoria and selling low in a state of fear or panic as a result of the herding instinct. In case an increase in price causes an increase in demand, or a decrease in price causes an increase in supply, this destroys the expected negative feedback loop and prices will be unstable. This can be seen in a bubble or crash.\n\nInvestor sentiment is a contrarian stock market indicator.\n\nWhen a high proportion of investors express a bearish (negative) sentiment, some analysts consider it to be a strong signal that a market bottom may be near. The predictive capability of such a signal (see also market sentiment) is thought to be highest when investor sentiment reaches extreme values. Indicators that measure investor sentiment may include:\n\nDavid Hirshleifer sees in the trend phenomenon a path starting with underreaction and ending in overreaction by investors / traders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24227472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24227472", "title": "Mexican Eagle Petroleum Company", "text": "Mexican Eagle Petroleum Company\n\nCompañía Mexicana de Petróleo El Águila SA, (\"El Águila\" for short), called in English the Mexican Eagle Oil Company or Mexican Eagle Petroleum Corporation, was a Mexican oil company in the 20th century.\n\nSir Weetman Pearson, Bart. (Viscount Cowdray from 1910) founded the company in 1909 to develop his investments in the Mexican oil fields.\n\nPearson's interests in Mexico had begun in 1889 when he won a contract from the government of Porfirio Díaz for his civil engineering company, S. Pearson and Sons Ltd, to build the Gran Canal in Mexico City. This was followed by contracts in 1895 to build a harbour at Veracruz and in 1896 to build the Tehuantepec Railway. Pearson diversified into mining, landholding, transport and electrical utilities around Veracruz. He and the engineer F.S. Pearson (no relation) founded the Mexico Power and Light Company, which provided Mexico City's first public electricity supply. Pearson's businesses and government contracts put him in a favourable position with members of the Díaz dictatorship.\n\nOil production in Mexico was begun in 1901 by a US oil investor, Henry Clay Pierce. He was quickly followed by a rival, Edward L. Doheny, in the same year. Pearson's land surveys in the vicinities of Pedregal and San Cristóbal for the route of the Tehuantepec Railway had reported oil seepage from the ground, so in April 1901 he ordered his manager in Mexico to secure prospecting options on \"...all land for miles around\". Pearson built a refinery, pipelines and port facilities to handle the oil in 1905–06, but his company didn't make a major oil strike until 1908. In the same year one of Pearson's oil strikes caught fire and burned out of control for eight weeks, destroying the entire oil field.\n\nIn 1909 Pearson founded the \"Compañía Mexicana de Petróleo El Aguila SA\" (\"Mexican Eagle Oil Company\") in Mexico to take over S. Pearson and Sons' oil interests. This followed Pearson's creation of Whitehall Securities Corporation Ltd. in the UK in 1908 to manage all of S. Pearson and Sons' investments outside the oil industry. Pearson's prospecting continued without success until 27 December 1910, when a well on the Gulf of Mexico coast between Veracruz and Tampico struck oil that flowed at a rate of 100,000 barrels per day. This single well turned the fortunes of Pearson's oil business. Within a few years he was one of Mexico's two major oil magnates, the other being Doheny. Other oil companies from the USA and Europe had entered the Mexican oil industry but Doheny and Pearson's companies remained pre-eminent until after the First World War.\n\nIn 1911 the Mexican revolution overthrew the Díaz dictatorship that had favoured Pearson, ending the civil engineering contracts for which he had first become involved in Mexico. However, Pearson had exclusive rights to prospect for oil in several Mexican states and by 1914 the company of prospecting rights, of pipeline, two refineries (the second being newly built at Tampico) and storage for seven million barrels of oil.\n\nBy June 1913 Mexican Eagle was the largest company in the Pearson group, with net assets valued at £6.8 million. However, in December 1918 Pearson claimed in a letter to the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer, David Lloyd George, that Mexican Eagle was worth £8 million. Mexican Eagle was the largest contributor to the Pearson group's valuation in 1913 of £17 million, which made it the seventh largest business in the UK and among the 30 largest businesses in the World. By 1919 the Pearson group was worth £29.6 million, of which in June of that year Mexican Eagle made up £13.4 million. To what extent this represents a growth in value must be considered against the degree of inflation that took place in the First World War. However, in 1919 the Pearson group's share value was £79.1 million, of which Mexican Eagle made up £62.6 million. This made Mexican Eagle roughly the equal of Burmah Oil and far bigger than the Anglo-Persian Oil Company or Shell Transport and Trading.\n\nIn 1911 Pearson declined an offer from the Texas Oil Company offered to buy his oil interests. In 1912 and 1913 he declined buyout bids from Royal Dutch Shell. and in 1913 and 1916 he declined bids from Standard Oil of New Jersey. By 1916 Pearson was keen to sell, but the UK Government persuaded him for strategic reasons not to do so. Pearson asked the UK Government to buy 50% of his oil interests, but it responded in 1917 by imposing restrictions that prevented him from transferring ownership as long as the war continued. The Constitution of Mexico adopted in 1917 nationalised oil deposits.\n\nIn October 1918, a month before the Armistice, Calouste Gulbenkian started negotiations with Pearson for Royal Dutch Shell to buy Mexican Eagle. On April 2, 1919 the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and the \"Shell\" Transport and Trading Company jointly bought Mexican Eagle for US$75 million.\n\nMexican Eagle was the dominant firm in the Mexican petroleum industry until March 18, 1938, when the government of Lázaro Cárdenas nationalized it, along with all other foreign-owned oil interests, to create \"Petróleos Mexicanos\" (Pemex).\n\n\"El Aguila\" formally dissolved itself on May 24, 1963.\n\nPearson started to acquire steam tankers to carry the oil that he hoped to produce. Armstrong Whitworth on the River Tyne launched SS \"San Cristobal\" (2,041 tons) in 1906 and Swan Hunter, also on Tyneside, launched SS \"San Antonio\" (5,251 tons) in 1909. Pearson also bought SS \"James Brand\" (3,907 tons), which had been built by Armstrong Whitworth in 1893, and renamed her \"San Bernardo\".\n\nIn 1912 Pearson founded the Eagle Oil Transport Company in the UK to take over his ships and carry Mexican Eagle's products and the Anglo-Mexican Petroleum Company in the UK to sell Mexican Eagle's products outside Mexico.\n\nEagle Oil Transport immediately ordered 20 modern steam tankers at a cost of £3 million. Eagle Oil Transport lost a number of ships to enemy action in the First World War. After the First World War, Eagle Oil Transport renewed and expanded its fleet. It bought numerous new tankers, including six of about 13,000 tons each. When Royal Dutch Shell bought Pearson's oil interests, that included Eagle Oil Transport and Anglo-Saxon Petroleum as well as Mexical Eagle Petroleum.\n\nIn about 1930 the Eagle Oil Transport Company was renamed the Eagle Oil and Shipping Company. In about 1935 the company started adding a new generation of motor tankers of about 8,000 tons each.\n\nEagle Oil and Shipping was registered in the United Kingdom. Therefore, after 1938 although the Mexican government had nationalised Mexican Eagle Petroleum, Eagle Oil and Shipping remained a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell. After 1938 the fleet continued to carry oil from the Gulf of Mexico to the UK. During the Second World War the company played an important role in supplying petroleum and petroleum products to the United Kingdom. Oil tankers were a particular target in Germany's economic warfare against the UK. Enemy action sank 17 Eagle Oil's ships and killed at least 206 officers, men and DEMS gunners serving aboard them.\nAmong the ships lost was (8,073 tons), which was famous for surviving a naval bombardment by the German heavy cruiser \"Admiral Scheer\" in 1940 that set the tanker on fire. \"San Demetrio\" was repaired and returned to service, but the U-boat U-\"404\" torpedoed and sank her in the western Atlantic off Virginia in 1942 with the loss of 19 lives.\n\nIn 1942 the Ministry of War Transport placed a number of Empire ships under Eagle Oil and Shipping's management. One was sunk by enemy action in 1943 but after the war the company bought two of the surviving ships from the ministry. The company also bought two T2 tankers that had been built in the USA. The company further renewed its fleet with 16 new ships between 1950 and 1960, and maximum tonnages steadily rose towards the end of the decade. The Royal Dutch Shell parent group absorbed Eagle Oil and Shipping in 1959.\n\n"}
{"id": "51883816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51883816", "title": "Michel Bergerac", "text": "Michel Bergerac\n\nMichel Christian Bergerac (13 February 1932 - 11 September 2016) was a French businessman who was president of cosmetics company Revlon in succession to Charles Revson.\n\n"}
{"id": "41325235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41325235", "title": "Miko Rwayitare", "text": "Miko Rwayitare\n\nMiko Rwayitare (December 2, 1942 – September 25, 2007) was a Rwandan-born billionaire and the supposed father of mobile telecommunications in Africa. \n\nIt is reported that he made the first cellular phone call on the African continent in 1986. He founded Telecel International, an African telecommunications company.\n\nRwayitare was born in Rwanda and educated in Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo) at the Collège Saint-Esprit and then Collège Notre-Dame in Bukavu and received an engineering degree in Germany at University of Karlsruhe in 1970. \n\nIn 1996, he moved to Johannesburg, South Africa. He lived in one of the city’s most expensive mansions on Sandhurst’s Oxford Avenue. \n\nIn 2001, he purchased the Mont Rochelle winery making it the first black-owned wine estate in South Africa. He was also the owner of Hôtel des Mille Collines on which the Film Hotel Rwanda was based.\nHe was first married to Josephine Diur and had five children with her then married Consolatta Rwayitare and had two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "50498591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50498591", "title": "Mindbody Inc.", "text": "Mindbody Inc.\n\nMINDBODY Inc was founded in 2001. It provides cloud-based business management software for the wellness services industry. MINDBODY serves about 35 million consumers located in over 130 countries and territories. It provides business management software and online scheduling platforms for over 58,000 health and wellness businesses globally. The company's clients include Bikram Yoga and New York Health & Racquet Club. ClassPass is one of MINDBODY's technology partners using MINDBODY's API to power the inventory on the ClassPass app. According to Institutional Venture Partners, \"MINDBODY is the largest global provider of online business management software to the beauty, health and wellness industry.\"\n\nMINDBODY was originally known as HardBody software. The latter was co-founded by Blake Beltram, Rick Stollmeyer and Robert Murphy in 2000. The company was later incorporated as MINDBODY in 2001. In 2005, MINDBODY Online was launched\nand it later received its first private funding round of $1 million in November 2005 from Tech Coast Angels and Pasadena Angels. The company's first round of institutional investment came up in April 2009 to the sum of $5.6 million from Catalyst Investors. The company received more investment in August 2010 to the sum of $14 million from Bessemer Venture Partners and Catalyst Investors with an initial portion of $11 million while the remaining $3 million was to be exercised at any time within 36 months. It received another round of funding in November 2012 of $35 million from Bessemer Venture Partners, Institutional Venture Partners, and Catalyst Investors. According to Rick Stollmeyer the CEO, the funds from that round would enable the company to expand globally to link the 2 million beauty and wellness businesses operating worldwide with the hundreds of millions of consumers who can use their services. In February 2014, MINDBODY received its final round of private funding in the amount of $50 million from Bessemer Venture Partners, Institutional Venture Partners, Catalyst Investors, W Capital Partners and Montreux Equity Partners.\n\nIn February 2015, MINDBODY acquired Fitness Mobile Apps for an undisclosed amount. At the time of the acquisition the company was creating customizable applications for iPhone, iPad, and Android platforms.\nMINDBODY went public in June 2015 raising $100M USD in capital.\nIn October 2015, MINDBODY integrated its MINDBODY Connect app with Fitbit, making it possible for app users to connect their Fitbit activity trackers to view personal activity data achieved during workouts scheduled at MINDBODY businesses.\n\nIn September 2016, MINDBODY acquired HealCode, a technology company that designed web tools for the fitness and wellness industry. In October 2016, MINDBODY integrated with Under Armour’s MyFitnessPal app to make it possible for app users to find and book fitness classes throughout the United States directly through MyFitnessPal.\n\n"}
{"id": "50056803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50056803", "title": "Pakathon", "text": "Pakathon\n\nPakathon is a Boston-based, registered global non-profit organization with eight global chapters in four countries: Pakistan, the United States, Canada, and Australia. Founded in 2013, Pakathon aims to create jobs through innovation and entrepreneurship by mobilizing the Pakistani diaspora. By working to foster a global network of like-minded individuals, investors and entrepreneurs, Pakathon aims to solve problems in sectors such as education, healthcare, gender equality, energy and law.\n\nThe organization's flagship event is a weekend-long hackathon hosted in chapter cities where students and professionals develop and pitch their projects to a panel of mentors. Top-performing teams are then invited to present their ideas to a global audience where they compete for funding, mentorship, and additional support, with the aim of advancing their ideas from conception to reality. Two winning teams are then selected: one from Pakistan and another from the international host cities.\n\nIn 2015, Pakathon partnered with the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan to expand Pakathon's innovation-centred programming in up to 50 Pakistani universities.\n\nPakathon's first winning team conceived the idea for ProCheck, a serialization system for authentic medicines in Pakistan. ProCheck allows customers and patients to verify authentic medicines using their mobile phones via text messaging. In November, 2015 ProCheck partnered with Ferozsons Labs, a leading manufacturer of pharmaceuticals in Pakistan, to serialize 35 million units of medicine using ProCheck's track and trace solution. As a result, more than 50,000 patients across the country will be able to distinguish between genuine and counterfeit medicines.\n"}
{"id": "17266447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17266447", "title": "Patrice Baldwin", "text": "Patrice Baldwin\n\nPatrice Baldwin was President of the International Drama and Theatre Education Association (IDEA) from 2010–13. She is Chair of National Drama, the leading subject association for UK drama and theatre educators, and National Director of D4LC (Drama for Learning and Creativity).\n\nPatrice Baldwin is a leading figure in the world of 'Drama for Learning'. She was Chair of National Drama (the leading association of drama and theatre educators) for more than a decade (until November 2014) and was President of the International Drama Theatre and Education Association (IDEA) from 2010 – 2013. She has also been an Executive Council Member of the World Alliance for Arts Education (WAAE). From April 2000 to June 2011 she was the local authority arts adviser for Norfolk County Council Children's Services but decided to go freelance in June 2011. This enabled her to devote more time to travelling and working abroad, as well as to developing 'Drama for Learning' in the UK. Follow her extensive education work, publications and travels by visiting her Drama Blog and her professional website You can also join the D4LC Facebook group she set up, to keep in contact with thousands of drama educators worldwide. \n\nPatrice was a primary school headteacher for eleven years and still works in schools on a consultancy basis for drama for learning, improving teaching, cultural and creative learning and primary curriculum development. She was an Ofsted inspector and a School Improvement Partner. For several years she worked as a BBC series consultant and scriptwriter for \"Let's Make a Story\" and also wrote scripts for \"First Steps in Drama\" and stories and dramatisations for \"Together\", a BBC radio assembly programme for primary schools. \n\nPatrice Baldwin has written many articles and books for teachers, on the use of drama for learning across the curriculum and has a particular interest in links between drama, learning through imagining and neuroscience, She is also known for her work on improving literacy through Drama. She is author of 'Stimulating Drama', \"The Drama Box\", 'The Drama Book', 'Teaching Literacy Through Drama – creative approaches' and \"With Drama in Mind – real learning in imagined worlds\" and The Primary Drama Handbook' and 'School Improvement Through Drama'. In May 2012 her second edition of 'With Drama in Mind' was published by Continuum/Bloomsbury and in October 2012 her book, 'Inspiring Writing Through Drama' (co-written with Rob John), was also published by Bloomsbury. \n\nPatrice Baldwin created 'Drama for Learning and Creativity' (D4LC), a national school improvement initiative that was piloted in Norfolk in 2005 and was supported by the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority, Creative Partnerships and the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts as well as Norfolk County Council. D4LC later became an IDEA project and spread internationally. She presented it at UNESCO's 2nd International Arts Education Conferences in South Korea and also, in Taiwan and Newcastle at World Creativity Summits. D4LC is an initiative that links visiting drama specialists with pairs of non-specialist drama teachers in schools. Together they work in partnership to use drama as a way of learning and teaching. They evaluate and share the impact. More than 280 schools in Norfolk became 'D4LC schools' from 2005 – 2010 and other parts of the UK (Newport in Wales and Dorset) have also set up D4LC based initiatives. D4LC was also started in Iceland under the name, 'FLISS' and has also proved successful with UK museum educators who want to extend the use of drama for learning in museums.\n\nPatrice is a well established national and international drama workshop leader and conference keynote speaker on drama, education, arts and Creativity. In April 2011 she became freelance, in order to focus more freely on her international work. Patrice has presented at Conferences in Greece, Turkey, Iceland, Germany, Austria, Poland, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Australia, the Philippines, France, Norway, Sweden, Finland, New Zealand, Singapore, US and Canada, Argentina and Uruguay. She was a speaker at the 2008 and 2009 World Creativity Summits in Taiwan and Newcastle and keynote speaker at Drama Australia's 2011 Conference in Perth. She presented in June 2011 at the first Drama in Education Conference in Singapore and in 2012/13 at many Conferences, including in New Hampshire (January 2012), New Zealand (April 2012), Turkey (May and November 2012), France (May 2012), Iceland (August 2012), Canada (October 2012), Greece (November 2012), Sweden (January and May 2013), Hong Kong and Singapore (February 2013), Australia (March 2013) and France (July 2013). During 2013 she became the Cultural Leader in Theatre and Performing Arts, for Brock University, Canada. \n\nIn 2009 she was a member of Sir Jim Rose's Editorial Expert group drafting a new primary National Curriculum for England. This curriculum did not get through Parliament before the June 2010 General Election. She is now working in partnership with specialist drama teaching schools in the UK, as well as doing some visiting fellow work at various Universities and working as an Artsmark Trainer and validator for Arts Council England.\n\nPatrice has also set up a CPD service for Norfolk schools and provides courses for a range of curriculum areas. See her website for more details. www.patricebaldwin.com\n\nStimulating Drama – out of print \n\nThe Drama Box and The Drama Book – out of print \n\nTeaching Literacy Through Drama: Creative Approaches (co-written with Kate Fleming)\n\nWith Drama in Mind: Real Learning in Imagined Worlds\n\nWith Drama in Mind: Real Learning in Imagined Worlds (second edition)\n\nThe Primary Drama Handbook\n\nSchool Improvement Through Drama\n\nInspiring Writing Through Drama (co-written with Rob John)\n\n"}
{"id": "1620130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1620130", "title": "Raúl Salinas de Gortari", "text": "Raúl Salinas de Gortari\n\nRaúl Salinas de Gortari (born August 24, 1946) is a Mexican businessman who spent ten years in prison accused of the murder of his brother-in-law, José Francisco Ruiz Massieu, but was acquitted in 2005. He is the brother of former President of Mexico Carlos Salinas.\n\nSalinas de Gortari was included in a list of the \"10 most corrupt Mexicans\" published by \"Forbes\" in 2013.\n\nIn February 1995, Raúl Salinas was arrested and charged with masterminding the murder of José Francisco Ruiz Massieu, the deputy leader of the PRI ruling party. Salinas was the former brother-in-law of Ruiz Massieu, who had been married to Raúl's sister Adriana. In January 1999, Salinas was found guilty and sentenced to 50 years in prison (later reduced to 27.5 years). In June 2005, Salinas had his conviction overturned by a judicial panel and he was released from prison.\n\nPresident Carlos Salinas appointed Deputy Attorney General , the brother of the assassinated man, to head the investigation of the murder. However, after a few months he resigned, claiming senior PRI officials were blocking the investigation. Later, Ruiz Massieu fled the country, but was arrested in Newark, New Jersey on money-laundering charges. He died in September 1999, apparently by suicide.\n\nIn November 1995, Raúl Salinas's wife, Paulina Castañón, and his brother-in-law, Antonio Castañón, were arrested in Geneva, Switzerland after attempting to withdraw $84 million USD from an account owned by Raúl under an alias. Their capture led to the unveiling of a vast fortune spread around the world and summing to hundreds of millions of dollars even though he never officially received an annual income of more than $190,000. A report by the US General Accounting Office indicated that Raúl Salinas transferred over $90 million out of Mexico and into private bank accounts in London and Switzerland, through a complex set of transactions between 1992 and 1994, all with the help of Citibank and its affiliates.\n\nIn 2008, the government of Switzerland turned over $74 million out of the $110 million in frozen bank accounts held by Raúl Salinas, to the government of Mexico. The Swiss Justice Ministry indicated that the Mexican government had demonstrated that $66 million of the funds had been misappropriated, and the funds, with interest, were returned to Mexico. The bank accounts were held at Pictet & Cie, Citibank Zurich, Julius Baer Bank, and Banque privée Edmond de Rothschild in Geneva and Zurich.\n\nOther funds were returned to third parties, including Mexican billionaire Carlos Peralta Quintero, who had given the funds to Raúl Salinas to set up an investment company. The Salinas family would not receive back any of the frozen funds. However, in July 2013 a court exonerated Salinas of \"unjust enrichment\" and ordered that 224 million pesos (approximately $18 million) and 41 properties be returned to him. The court said that it could not explain how Salinas accumulated such wealth, but said that \"so long as it is not shown that the assets acquired by public employee Raul Salinas de Gortari are proceeds derived from an abuse of his position,\" that he cannot be convicted of \"unjust enrichment.\"\n\nOn December 6, 2004, Enrique Salinas de Gortari, the brother of Raúl Salinas de Gortari, was found dead in his car after apparently having been beaten and strangled. Prosecutors said that Enrique Salinas had been sought for questioning by French police regarding his financial transactions with Raúl Salinas. However, investigators indicated that they thought the killing was a botched extortion attempt on him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31421198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31421198", "title": "Roelof Nelissen", "text": "Roelof Nelissen\n\nRoelof Johannes Nelissen (born 4 April 1931) is a retired Dutch politician of the defunct Catholic People's Party (KVP) now merged into the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA).\n\n"}
{"id": "7365966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7365966", "title": "SCORE (television)", "text": "SCORE (television)\n\nSCORE was the weekend sports service of the Financial News Network which aired sports-themed programming starting in 1985. It was renamed FNN Sports in 1990 when FNN decided to go with a 24-hour feed on weekdays. SCORE was forced to dissolve after CNBC bought out FNN in 1991.\n\nSCORE used a sports ticker or crawl to update scores at the bottom of the screen. As it was a co-venture with FNN, a stock ticker was often shown across the bottom of the screen. SCORE provided scores and highlight updates every half-hour.\n\nSCORE had several shows that were televised versions of what sports talk radio is today. SCORE featured some professional sporting events, live call-in shows, and sports news shows. Live sporting events included professional wrestling, MISL soccer, college basketball, the CFL and boxing. It also broadcast a couple NASCAR races in 1988 that were originally slated for SETN before it folded.\n\nIt also showed at least two games of the 1986 National Invitation Tournament.\n\nIts most popular show was \"Time Out for Trivia\", hosted by Todd Donoho and produced by Eric Corwin. \"Time Out For Trivia\" was the first national live interactive game show in which viewers phoned in and if they correctly answered a question, they'd win a prize. One of the most popular prizes on the show was the Dirt Devil vacuum cleaner which often included a funny sound effect like an \"ooooh\" or an \"oooooh... aaaaaah.\" Humor was almost always an ingredient, particularly in the multiple-choice questions, which often included an obvious nonsports figure as one of the possible answers. \n\n\"Time Out For Trivia\" became a cult hit on cable TV, receiving many glowing reviews in newspapers and magazines. Gary Nuhn, a columnist for the \"Dayton Daily News\", has called TOFT \"cable TV at its best,\" and Wendell Barnhouse, radio/TV columnist for the \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\", says it is \"one of life's joys.\" \"Sports Illustrated\" did a feature about \"TOFT\" in its famous swimsuit issue. Donoho and Corwin did over 1,000 shows together, including a 1,000th show \"special edition\", a one-hour program which featured highlights from the first 999 shows. Donoho and Corwin worked together on \"TOFT\" and other shows at FNN/SCORE from 1985 through 1989 before joining the sports department at KABC. Much of this show was incorporated into a show on KABC called \"Monday Night Live\", which aired after \"Monday Night Football\" from to , when Donoho's contract was not renewed by KABC. The show was then renamed \"Sports Zone\" with host Rob Fukuzaki and it remained an \"MNF\" postgame show until the package left ABC after the 2005 season. \"Sports Zone\" remains on KABC, following many events televised by the network.\n\nOther call-in shows included \"The Fan Speaks Out\", \"The Final Score\", and \"The Sports Collector\".\n\nNews shows featured included \"Tennis Talk\", a baseball program called \"The Hot Stove League\", and a sports wagering program with Wayne Root. Other hosts included Bill Brown, Byron Day, John Loesing, Hugh Malay and Fred Wallin. Many of the shows were directed by Brad Toberman. Show producers included Jim Battey, Michael Pierce, Steven Herbert, Gary Kubik, Hugh Malay, Eric Corwin and Steven Friedman.\n\nThe professional wrestling programming exposed fans throughout the country to regional territory wrestling promotions. These territories included the Mid-Atlantic with Ric Flair and Chief Wahoo McDaniel, Memphis with Jerry 'the King' Lawler, Texas with the Von Erichs and the Maivia family's Hawaii promotion with Rocky Johnson, King Curtis, Don Muraco, Lars Anderson, Superfly Snuka, Bruiser Brody and many Japanese wrestlers. It also prominently featured wrestling from the Continental Wrestling Federation including matches featuring Eddie Gilbert, Tom Prichard, and The Dirty White Boy.\n\n"}
{"id": "22860589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22860589", "title": "Shark Tank", "text": "Shark Tank\n\nShark Tank is an American reality television series that premiered on August 9, 2009, on ABC. The show is a franchise of the international format \"Dragons' Den\", which originated in Japan in 2001. \"Shark Tank\" shows aspiring entrepreneurs as they make business presentations to a panel of five \"shark\" investors, who then choose whether to invest as business partners.\n\nThe series has been a ratings success in its time slot and has won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Structured Reality Program four times, from 2014 through 2017, in all four years of that category's existence. Prior to that, from 2012 to 2013, it won Outstanding Reality Program. \n\n\"Shark Tank\"'s tenth season premiered on October 7, 2018.\n\n\"Shark Tank\" is produced by Mark Burnett and based on the format \"Dragons' Den\", which originated in 2001 with the Japanese show \"Tigers of Money\". \"Shark Tank,\" however, more closely resembles the format of the British version of \"Dragons' Den\", which premiered in 2005. The show features a panel of potential investors, called \"sharks,\" who consider offers from aspiring entrepreneurs seeking investments for their business or product. The sharks are paid for their participation in the show, but the money they invest is their own. The entrepreneur can make a deal on the show if a panel member is interested. However, if all of the panel members opt out, the entrepreneur leaves empty-handed. The show is said to portray \"the drama of pitch meetings and the interaction between the entrepreneurs and tycoons.\" A one-hour pitch by a contestant is edited down to \"a dramatic 10-minute segment.\"\n\nTwo of the show's longstanding \"sharks,\" Robert Herjavec and Kevin O'Leary, are Canadian entrepreneurs who had previously appeared on the Canadian version of \"Dragons' Den\".\n\nThe \"sharks\" often find weaknesses and faults in an entrepreneur's concept, product, or business model. Some of the investors try to soften the impact of rejection, like panel member Corcoran, while others such as O'Leary can be \"brutal\" and show \"no patience even for tales of hardship\".\n\nMany, and possibly a majority, of the deals made on the show are never enacted, due to the investors' vetting process following the deal, which includes product testing and the examination of the contestants' personal and business financials. In some cases, the entrepreneurs themselves have backed out of the deal after admitting that they only wanted to appear on the show for the publicity. \n\nThe show is often responsible for what has become known as the \"Shark Tank\" effect. Simply appearing on the show, even without getting an offer, has the potential to significantly boost sales for companies. Some entrepreneurs have reported revenue increases of 10-20 times after the show's airing.\n\nThe show initially required each contestant to sign an agreement with Finnmax, the producer of \"Shark Tank\", promising Finnmax the option of taking a \"2 percent royalty\" or \"5% equity stake\" in the contestant's business venture. However, in October 2013, this requirement was repealed by the network, retroactively, due to pressure from panel member Mark Cuban. Cuban felt the requirement would lower the quality of the entrepreneurs, as savvy investors would be wary of trading away a portion of their company just for appearing on the show. A number of potential entrepreneurs have declined to participate in the show for this reason.\n\n\"Shark Tank\" premiered in August 2009 and aired 14 episodes through January 2010. In August, it was renewed for a second season. Season 2 premiered with a \"sneak peek\" episode on Sunday, March 20, 2011, before resuming its regular Friday night time slot on March 25, 2011. Season 2 had 9 episodes, 5 of them featuring new panel members. Comedian Jeff Foxworthy and Mark Cuban replaced panel member Kevin Harrington in those episodes. In season 2, Kevin O'Leary, Barbara Corcoran, Daymond John, and Robert Herjavec appeared in all nine episodes; Harrington appeared in four, Cuban in three, and Foxworthy in two.\n\n\"Shark Tank\"'s third season premiered in January 2012. During the second season, Kevin Harrington was replaced by Mark Cuban, while in the third season, the \"queen of QVC\" Lori Greiner replaced Barbara Corcoran on 4 episodes. Kevin O'Leary, Daymond John, Robert Herjavec, and Mark Cuban appeared in all 15 episodes of season three. In February, ABC ordered two additional episodes for season 3 using unaired footage, which brought the season's episode total to 15. On May 10, 2012, Shark Tank was renewed for a fourth season consisting of 26 episodes. This is the first time the series received a full season order. Filming began on June 30, 2012. According to TV Guide, as of December 2012, the show's panel members had invested $12.4 million in the business opportunities presented to them during that season. Those whose business ideas did not result in an investment from the sharks still benefited from the publicity generated by that contestant appearing on the show. During the show's 2012 season, 36,076 people applied to become contestants.\n\nIn 2013, ABC renewed the show for a fifth season. Season 5 premiered on September 20, 2013. In October 2013, ABC ordered an additional two episodes for the season. In December 2013, ABC ordered another four episodes, bringing the season order to 29 episodes. Steve Tisch and John Paul DeJoria were added as panel members. In 2013, CNBC licensed exclusive off-network cable rights for the series from ABC. In May 2014, ABC announced a sixth season starting in September 2014. The series began its syndication run on CNBC on December 30, 2013.\n\nThe seventh season of the show premiered on Friday, September 25, 2015. Actor/investor Ashton Kutcher, music manager/CEO Troy Carter, and venture investor Chris Sacca all appeared as guest sharks.\n\nThe ninth season of the show premiered on Sunday, October 1, 2017, with a new, modern looking set, new chairs, more space, and guest shark Richard Branson.\n\nDuring its first season, \"Shark Tank\" saw a mostly positive reception. Josh Wolk of \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote, \"The moneymen ask informed questions and make shrewd decisions, a welcome relief from Donald Trump's capricious calls on Burnett's \"Celebrity Apprentice\".\" Heather Havrilesky from Salon said that \"ABC's \"Shark Tank\" is easily the best new reality TV show to air this summer.\" Tom Shales of \"The Washington Post\" wrote, \"It sounds gimmicky and visually tedious, with most of the so-called action taking place in a conference room. It's all those things, but the moments of misery make it memorable.\" Shales noted that the series was premiering during an economic recession, and that many of the aspiring entrepreneurs had poured significant amounts of money into their businesses; he praised \"how deftly the show personalizes the desperation and pain experienced by victims of a broken down economy.\" And David Hinckley of the \"New York Daily News\" said, \"Once you get past its somewhat misleading title, Mark Burnett's new Shark Tank is a well-paced hour that offers entertainment without humiliation.\"\n\nDuring the first two seasons, the series barely peaked at 5 million viewers, with season 2 only having 9 episodes in its run. But by season 3, the show's viewership went past 5 million and started to crack the top 100 in the ratings. By 2012, the show averaged over 6 million viewers per episode. It is the most watched program on Friday nights in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic. As a result, ABC added three more episodes to the original season order of 22. In its sixth season, the series reached over 9 million per episode, becoming its most successful season to date. \n\nABC launched a companion series, \"Beyond the Tank\", which shows the current state of companies that appeared on \"Shark Tank\", including both those that made a deal and those that were rejected by investors. Two seasons of \"Beyond the Tank\" have aired so far, one in 2015 and one in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44585849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44585849", "title": "Small Business Health Options Program", "text": "Small Business Health Options Program\n\nThe federal Small Business Health Options Program is an insurance exchange, created by Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). The Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Marketplace helps small businesses to provide health coverage to their employees. Therefore, it is open to employers with 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees (FTEs), in which it also includes non-profit organizations. \n\nAccording to the HealthCare.gov, the benefit of SHOP Marketplace includes, allowing owner to offer health and dental coverage to employees. Other than that, with flexibility, choice, and the online application and account management, SHOP aims to meets the needs of the business owner and its employees. \n\nIn 2015 Employee Choice was introduced under of the PPACA's Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Marketplace. While SHOP was available for 2014, this is the first year that small employers in 14 states can apply online. Before 2015 employers who provided health insurance to their employees typically worked with an insurance broker and one health insurance company. In 2015, they however can offer their employees a choice of insurance companies.\n\nSHOP enrollment is available any time of the year - there is no \"Open Enrollment\" limitation. Employers who wish to contribute to the premium cost of their employees may qualify to receive a SHOP tax credit. The tax credit is worth up to 50% of employer's contribution toward its employees' premium costs. It will be up to 35% for tax-exempt employers. Unfortunately, employees can't join the plan after the initial enrollment period unless they are new hires and qualify Special Enrollment Period.\n\nAccording to the HealthCare.gov, special Enrollment Period refers to a time outside of the open enrollment period, in which you and your family have a right to sign up for health coverage. In other words, you qualify for a special enrollment period 60 days following certain life events, including but limited to: change in family status such as marriage or birth of a child, loss of other health coverage. \nHowever, SHOP Marketplace is not offered to self-employed individuals, with no employees. They can however get health coverage through Health Insurance Marketplace for individuals. \n\nAs of March 13, 2015, the United States Department of Health and Human Services claims, evidence has shown that the SHOP marketplace is working in terms of affordability. For taxpayers, they are benefiting as the health costs and spending have decreased last year. With a historic slow down in the growth of health care costs, workers, business and taxpayers are able to generate savings under the introduction of SHOP. \n\n"}
{"id": "47762025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47762025", "title": "Society for the Preservation of Downtown Los Angeles", "text": "Society for the Preservation of Downtown Los Angeles\n\nSociety for the Preservation of Downtown Los Angeles, also known as SP-DTLA, is a 501(c)(3) organization that advocates what it characterizes as responsible and respectful development around and among Downtown Los Angeles' historic structures. SP-DTLA supports development with a positive impact on the designated Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monuments in Downtown Los Angeles, especially those in the Historic Core.\n\nSP-DTLA supports viewshed protection and a \"zone of respect\" around preserved buildings.\n\nSP-DTLA's particular focus is on the seven by four block area (3rd to Olympic Streets and Hill to Main Streets), which includes the Broadway Theater District.\n\nSP-DTLA is best known for its opposition to the Alexan South Broadway project in proximity to the 1930 Eastern Columbia Building and its landmark clock. The group is also opposing two other downtown projects which they argue have a height and mass out of scale with the character of the adjacent historic buildings.\n\n"}
{"id": "50167884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50167884", "title": "Stuart Chambers (businessman)", "text": "Stuart Chambers (businessman)\n\nStuart John Chambers (born May 1956) is a British businessman, the chairman of Rexam and ARM Holdings. He will succeed Sir John Parker as chairman of Anglo American plc from 1 November 2017.\n\nHe is a visiting fellow at the Saïd Business School.\n"}
{"id": "17377101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17377101", "title": "Student managed investments", "text": "Student managed investments\n\nA student managed investment fund is a pool of money which business students invest as a learning experience. As of 2008, more than 200 universities have student-run funds, which vary in size from several hundred thousand dollars to millions of dollars.\n\nThe funds to be managed come from various sources, such as gifts from private individuals and corporations, gifts from foundations, and from university endowment or foundation assets. Some student managed investment funds such as the University of Texas at Austin manage funds for private clients, who are accredited investors under U.S. securities laws. Another special case is the loan that proves the funds at Cameron University.\n\nSome student managed investment funds are organized by function (accounting, public relations, etc.), while others such as the Lemma Senbet Fund are organized by economic sectors (Consumer Products, Energy Industry, Information technology, etc.).\n\nThe business students managing the fund typically take a for-credit course in conjunction with their management duties. Many of these programs belong to the Association of Student Managed Investment Programs.\n\nIn addition to managing a portfolio, these classes provide related experiences relevant to being a professional fund manager. For example, the CFA Society of Orange County Foundation (CFAOCF) conducts an annual request for proposals competition which allows student teams from local universities to experience first-hand the process that fund managers must go through in order to be allowed to manage institutional funds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30132694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30132694", "title": "Swissmem", "text": "Swissmem\n\nSwissmem is the Swiss association of mechanical and electrical engineering industries (MEM industries). With some 320,000 employees, the MEM industries are Switzerland’s largest industrial employer and, since they account for 31 percent of the country’s exports, an important economic and political player. In 2015, the nearly 1,000 member companies of Swissmem exported goods worth 63 billion Swiss francs.\n\nSwissmem was created by the merger of two associations: ASM (Association of Swiss Engineering Employers) und VSM (Swiss Association of Machinery Manufacturers). Both associations have been operating under the Swissmem name since 1999. VSM was renamed Swissmem at the beginning of 2007, when it took over all ASM’s activities with the exception of those associated with the sector’s collective bargaining agreement.\n\nSwissmem represents the MEM industries’ interests to the Swiss government, national and international organizations, employee representative bodies and the public. It also acts as the MEM industries’ service centre. In its capacity as employer representative, Swissmem negotiates the terms of the collective bargaining agreement for the MEM industries with the unions. The MEM industries’ collective bargaining agreement is traditionally a benchmark for a large number of collective bargaining agreements in Switzerland, having evolved to its current state of refinement since the \"peace agreement\" of 1937.\n\nSwissmem is chaired by Hans Hess since November 2010. Federal Councillor Johann Niklaus Schneider-Ammann was formerly the President of Swissmem. In the past, several important officials of Swissmem, ASM or VSM have risen to even more influential positions in the Swiss Employers’ Association (Peter Hasler, Thomas Daum (Switzerland).\n\nSwissmem’s CEO is Peter Dietrich.\n\nSwissmem has nearly 1,000 member companies, including all Switzerland’s major industrial enterprises.\nSwissmem’s members are divided into the following specialist groups:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51537529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51537529", "title": "Terence Nombembe", "text": "Terence Nombembe\n\nTerence Mncedisi Nombembe (born 30 September 1961 in Qumbu, Eastern Cape) is a qualified Chartered accountant who served as Auditor General of South Africa from 2006 to 2013.. During his tenure as Auditor General, Nombembe gained a reputation for integrity. An outspoken critic of corruption, he has been called the commercial equivalent of former Public Protector Advocate Thuli Madonsela.. In August 2017, Nombembe was re-appointed as Non-Executive Director of the South African Reserve Bank.He is currently the chief executive officer of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants..\n\nNombembe matriculated at the Umtata Technical College in 1979. In 1982, Nombembe obtained his Bachelor of Commerce degree from the University of Transkei.In 1986, Nombembe completed his Bachelor of Accounting Science (Honours) degree at the University of South Africa. Nombembe was conferred with an Honorary Doctorate in Accounting Science from the Walter Sisulu University in 2014. \n\nNombembe is married to Nokwanda and has three children, Mphiwa, Fezekile and Kamvalethu.\n"}
{"id": "7325857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7325857", "title": "The Mall (Cleveland)", "text": "The Mall (Cleveland)\n\nThe Cleveland Mall is a long public park in downtown Cleveland, Ohio. It was conceived as part of the 1903 Group Plan by Daniel Burnham, John Carrère, and Arnold Brunner as a vast public space flanked by the city's major civic and governmental buildings, all built in the neoclassical style. Many of those buildings were built over the following three decades, including the Metzenbaum Courthouse (1910), Cuyahoga County Courthouse (1912), Cleveland City Hall (1916), Public Auditorium (1922), the Cleveland Public Library main building (1925), and the Cleveland Public Schools Board of Education building (1931). Other buildings include Key Tower, the Global Center for Health Innovation, the Hilton Cleveland Downtown Hotel, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.\nIn the spirit of the City Beautiful movement, formerly seedy areas were transformed into a \"magnificent civic center\", which was supposed to be crowned by the Union Terminal at the north end of the mall, on the shores of Lake Erie. However, the location of the station was eventually moved south and west, to Public Square, where it was finally born as the Terminal Tower. Even though the plan was never fully carried out, it was one of the few City Beautiful plans to be realized to a large extent, and remains one of the most complete examples in the United States. The Mall was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1975.\n\nThe Mall is divided into three sections, known as Malls A, B, and C. Mall A, the southernmost, is officially named Veterans' Memorial Plaza, and Mall C was dedicated as Strawbridge Plaza in 2003. The Memorial Plaza, between Rockwell and St. Clair Avenues, is the site of the Fountain of Eternal Life, also known as the War Memorial Fountain. The Cleveland Convention Center was built underneath Malls B and C in 1964. In 2010 the county purchased the underground convention center from the city as part of a project to completely rebuild it in conjunction with constructing the Global Center for Health Innovation and the Hilton Cleveland Downtown Hotel on the former site of the Cuyahoga County Administration Building across from Mall B. The new Huntington Convention Center of Cleveland opened in 2013 and has underground connections to Public Auditorium and the Global Center for Health Innovation. The Hilton officially opened in June 2016. Mall B and Mall C reopened after construction as predominantly grassy areas, with Mall B reaching 27 feet above sidewalk level over the entrance to the Cleveland Convention Center along Lakeside Avenue.\n\nCleveland Public Art has sponsored a series of temporary public art installations on Mall B. In 2004, New York artist Brian Tolle installed \"For the gentle wind doth move Silently, invisibly\". The work featured eight nine-foot-tall styrofoam neoclassical urns standing atop pedestals, warped to reflect actual wind data collected from Lake Erie. The sculptures were taken down in 2006. In May 2008, Peter North and Alissa North of North Design Office in Toronto installed a work titled \"The Verdant Walk\". It features plantings of native grasses and seven fabric-covered sculptures. The sculptures are illuminated at night via a solar-powered LED system. They will remain in place until 2010.\n"}
{"id": "30097283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30097283", "title": "Tom Alweendo", "text": "Tom Alweendo\n\nThomas Kavaningilamo 'Tom' Alweendo (born 17 March 1958 in Omusheshe, Oshana Region) is a Namibian businessperson and politician who has been Minister of Mines and Energy since 2018. In 2003, he became the first Namibian Governor of the Bank of Namibia when he replaced Jafaar bin Ahmad of Malaysia. From the mid-1990s until 2001, he was head of Air Namibia.\n\nAlweendo earned a bachelor's degree from the University of the Witwatersrand in South Africa and a Master of Business Administration from the University of Wales in the United Kingdom.\n\nAs Governor of the Bank of Namibia, he maintained the Namibian dollar's linkage with the South African rand. He also raised concerns about increasing amounts of government debt and questioned whether expenditures on education produced better results.\n\nIn 2010 Alweendo was appointed to lead the National Planning Commission. When Hage Geingob took office as President in March 2015, he confirmed him in this post, now named Minister in the Presidency in charge of the National Planning Commission. In a Cabinet reshuffle in February 2018, Alweendo became Minister of Mines and Energy, swapping positions with Obeth Kandjoze.\n"}
{"id": "3675453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3675453", "title": "Trailer tracking", "text": "Trailer tracking\n\nTrailer tracking is tracking the position of an articulated vehicle’s trailer unit through a tracking device fitted to the trailer. A communication network or satellite network is then used to transfer this positional data to a centralised collection point. Trailer tracking is used to increase productivity by optimising the use of trailer fleets.\n\nTrailer tracking systems can provide essential information to trailer operators on; status, location, door activity and history. These systems utilize the information to provide reliable and protected services to shippers of perishable commodities.\n\nTrailer Tracking is also a trucking term in which, when a Semi turns a corner the trailer tires will be closer to the curb (even jump the curb if semi turns to sharp) than the truck cab will be.\n\nTrailer tracking systems require 4 essential components to operate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16174880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16174880", "title": "Tsui Siu-Ming", "text": "Tsui Siu-Ming\n\nTsui Siu-ming (; born 1953) is a Hong Kong-based actor, screenwriter, film producer, assistant director, production manager, and action choreographer.\n\nA native of Guangdong, Tsui was once a recognized child star. He had tried his hands in singing during the 1970s and 1980s with such tunes as \"The New Chameleon\", \"Za Xiang Hu Shan Xing\" and \"Huei Sheng Gu Li Nian Li Qing\".\n\nHe also produced drama serials for Rediffusion Television (RTV) such as the rating-topper \"Chameleon\". Tsui worked for ATV in 1998 and became CEO of Emperor Motion Pictures in the subsequent year where he was responsible for film and TV business development. \n\nIn March 2005, he founded Sundream Motion Pictures, a subsidiary of pay TV provider I-CABLE Communications Ltd., producing films such as \"Twins Mission\" and \"Eye in the Sky\". \n\n"}
{"id": "22808856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22808856", "title": "William Saito", "text": "William Saito\n\nIn December 2017 reports emerged on the Internet that he had falsified his education and work experience, and he resigned from his government and other advisory posts, apologized, and issued corrections.\n\nSaito was born in Los Angeles, California; his parents immigrated to the US from Japan in 1969, two years before he was born. He is the eldest of three children.\n\nIn 1987, Saito graduated from Damien High School in La Verne, California. He attended the University of California, Riverside from the Fall of 1988 to the Fall 1992, and was a student in Riverside's joint Biomedical Science Program with the University of California, Los Angeles in 1988.\n\nSaito began a computer security venture while in junior high school, and incorporated the firm as I/O Software in 1991 while attending university. Among other technologies, I/O Software developed a system to display Japanese characters in software written in English, and a fingerprint recognition system used by Sony. Microsoft began a partnership with I/O Software in 2000 to adopt the latter's authentication technology in future versions of Microsoft Windows. Saito sold the I/O Software business assets to Microsoft in 2004.\n\nAfter selling the I/O Software business, he moved to Japan, where he became active as a venture capitalist and invested in several Japanese start-ups. He was named a Young Global Leader of the World Economic Forum in 2011.\n\nFollowing the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in March 2011, Saito was appointed to provide IT and technical support to the National Diet committee investigating the disaster. He used the title of \"Chief Technology Officer\" in this role and later admitted that this title exaggerated his actual responsibilities.\n\nSaito was at one time a top advisor to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on cybersecurity issues. He was formally a cybersecurity advisor to the Cabinet Office from 2013 to 2017, and an advisor to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry from 2016 to 2017. He also served as a member of the technical task force for the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics, and as an advisor on education policy to the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology. Saito accompanied Abe on a 2015 visit to Silicon Valley, where Abe met with the heads of several major technology firms.\n\nIn the private sector, Saito was appointed as a strategic advisor to Japan Airlines in 2015, and provided advice to JAL on its IT strategy. He served as a part-time Executive Officer and as the first General Manager of Digital Innovation Promotion at JAL from May to December 2017. He was a member of the advisory board of \"The Japan Times\" from 2014 to 2015, and also served as an advisor to Hakuhodo and Fast Retailing.\n\nIn December 2017 the writer Ichiro Yamamoto raised questions on his blog about Saito's claims that he graduated from UCLA's medical school and about his work experience in cybersecurity.\n\nSaito resigned from his Cabinet and METI advisory positions in December 2017, citing personal reasons. The same day, Japan Airlines announced that he had resigned as a digital innovations officer. After leaving his posts, on his website he said that he did not graduate from UCLA medical school, and clarified his role in investigating the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster. Following these revelations, economy minister Hiroshige Sekō stated that no falsifications had been found in the resume that Saito submitted to METI in connection with his hiring.\n\nIn January 2018 an article in the \"New York Times\" listed Saito's twitter account as among those for which ghost followers had been purchased from Devumi. Saito denied that he had done this, and deleted his Twitter account.\n\n"}
