{"id": "55433651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55433651", "title": "Agostinho Neto, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Agostinho Neto, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nAgostinho Neto is a settlement in Lobata District on São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 992 (2012 census). It lies 1.5 km southeast of Guadalupe and 2.5 km west of Conde.\n\nAfter São Tomé and Príncipe became independent in 1975, the settlement was named after the founding father of Angola, Agostinho Neto. The settlement grew around the plantation complex Roça Rio do Ouro, established in 1865. It is one of the most impressive agricultural structures in the country. There is a museum in the former mansion.\n\nThe football (soccer) club of the village is Amador.\n"}
{"id": "57719922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57719922", "title": "Ancient Mesopotamian underworld", "text": "Ancient Mesopotamian underworld\n\nThe ancient Mesopotamian underworld, most often known in Sumerian as Kur, Irkalla, Kukku, Arali, or Kigal and in Akkadian as Erṣetu, although it had many names in both languages, was a dark, dreary cavern located deep below the ground, where inhabitants were believed to continue \"a shadowy version of life on earth\". The only food or drink was dry dust, but family members of the deceased would pour libations for them to drink. Unlike many other afterlives of the ancient world, in the Sumerian underworld, there was no final judgement of the deceased and the dead were neither punished nor rewarded for their deeds in life. A person's quality of existence in the underworld was determined by his or her conditions of burial.\n\nThe ruler of the underworld was the goddess Ereshkigal, who lived in the palace Ganzir, sometimes used as a name for the underworld itself. Her husband was either Gugalanna, the \"canal-inspector of Anu\", or, especially in later stories, Nergal, the god of death. After the Akkadian Period ( 2334 – 2154 BC), Nergal sometimes took over the role as ruler of the underworld. The seven gates of the underworld are guarded by a gatekeeper, who is named Neti in Sumerian. The god Namtar acts as Ereshkigal's \"sukkal\", or divine attendant. The dying god Dumuzid spends half the year in the underworld, while, during the other half, his place is taken by his sister, the scribal goddess Geshtinanna, who records the names of the deceased. The underworld was also the abode of various demons, including the hideous child-devourer Lamashtu, the fearsome wind demon and protector god Pazuzu, and \"galla\", who dragged mortals to the underworld.\n\nThe Sumerians had a large number of different names which they applied to the underworld, including \"Arali\", \"Irkalla\", \"Kukku\", \"Ekur\", \"Kigal\", and \"Ganzir\". All of these terms were later borrowed into Akkadian. The rest of the time, the underworld was simply known by words meaning \"earth\" or \"ground\", including the terms \"Kur\" and \"Ki\" in Sumerian and the word \"erṣetu\" in Akkadian. When used in reference to the underworld, the word \"Kur\" usually means \"ground\", but sometimes this meaning is conflated with another possible meaning of the word \"Kur\" as \"mountain\". The cuneiform sign for \"Kur\" was written ideographically with the cuneiform sign 𒆳, a pictograph of a mountain. Sometimes the underworld is called the \"land of no return\", the \"desert\", or the \"lower world\". The most common name for the earth and the underworld in Akkadian is \"erṣetu\", but other names for the underworld include: \"ammatu\", \"arali\" / \"arallû\", \"bīt dumuzi\" (\"House of Dumuzi\"), \"danninu\", \"erṣetu la târi\" (\"Earth of No Return\"), \"ganzer\" / \"kanisurra\", \"ḫaštu\", \"irkalla\", \"kiūru\", \"kukkû\" (\"Darkness\"), \"kurnugû\" (\"Earth of No Return\"), \"lammu\", \"mātu šaplītu\", and \"qaqqaru\".\n\nAll souls went to the same afterlife, and a person's actions during life had no effect on how the person would be treated in the world to come. Unlike in the ancient Egyptian afterlife, there was no process of judgement or evaluation for the deceased; they merely appeared before Ereshkigal, who would pronounce them dead, and their names would be recorded by the scribal goddess Geshtinanna. The souls in Kur were believed to eat nothing but dry dust and family members of the deceased would ritually pour libations into the dead person's grave through a clay pipe, thereby allowing the dead to drink. For this reason, it was considered essential to have as many offspring as possible so that one's descendants could continue to provide libations for the dead person to drink for many years. Those who had died without descendants would suffer the most in the underworld, because they would have nothing to drink at all. Sometimes the dead are described as naked or clothed in feathers like birds.\n\nNonetheless, funerary evidence indicates that some people believed that the goddess Inanna, Ereshkigal's younger sister, had the power to award her devotees with special favors in the afterlife. During the Third Dynasty of Ur ( 2112 – 2004 BC), it was believed that a person's treatment in the afterlife depended on how he or she was buried; those that had been given sumptuous burials would be treated well, but those who had been given poor burials would fare poorly. Those who did not receive a proper burial, such as those who had died in fires and whose bodies had been burned or those who died alone in the desert, would have no existence in the underworld at all, but would simply cease to exist. The Sumerians believed that, for the highly privileged, music could alleviate the bleak conditions of the underworld.\n\nThe entrance to Kur was believed to be located in the Zagros mountains in the far east. A staircase led down to the gates of the underworld. The underworld itself is usually located even deeper below ground than the Abzu, the body of freshwater which the ancient Mesopotamians believed lay deep beneath the earth. In other, conflicting traditions, however, it seems to be located at a remote and inaccessible location on earth, possibly somewhere in the far west. This alternate tradition is hinted at by the fact that the underworld is sometimes called \"desert\" and by the fact that actual rivers located far away from Sumer are sometimes referred to as the \"river of the underworld\". The underworld was believed to have seven gates, through which a soul needed to pass. All seven gates were protected by bolts. The god Neti was the gatekeeper. Ereshkigal's \"sukkal\", or messenger, was the god Namtar. The palace of Ereshkigal was known as Ganzir.\n\nAt night, the sun-god Utu was believed to travel through the underworld as he journeyed to the east in preparation for the sunrise. One Sumerian literary work refers to Utu illuminating the underworld and dispensing judgement there and Shamash Hymn 31 (BWL 126) states that Utu serves as a judge of the dead in the underworld alongside the \"malku\", \"kusu\", and the Anunnaki. On his way through the underworld, Utu was believed to pass through the garden of the sun-god, which contained trees that bore precious gems as fruit. The Sumerian hymn \"Inanna and Utu\" contains an etiological myth in which Utu's sister Inanna begs her brother Utu to take her to Kur, so that she may taste the fruit of a tree that grows there, which will reveal to her all the secrets of sex. Utu complies and, in Kur, Inanna tastes the fruit and becomes knowledgeable of sex. The hymn employs the same motif found in the myth of \"Enki and Ninhursag\" and in the later Biblical story of Adam and Eve.\n\nA number of deities were believed by the ancient Mesopotamians to reside in the underworld. The queen of the underworld was the goddess Ereshkigal. She was believed to live in palace known as Ganzir. In earlier stories, her husband is Gugalanna, but, in later myths, her husband is the god Nergal. Her gatekeeper was the god Neti and her \"sukkal\" is the god Namtar. In the poem \"Inanna's Descent into the Underworld\", Ereshkigal is described as Inanna's \"older sister\".\n\nGugalanna is the first husband of Ereshkigal, the queen of the underworld. His name probably originally meant \"canal inspector of An\" and he may be merely an alternative name for Ennugi. The son of Ereshkigal and Gugalanna is Ninazu. In \"Inanna's Descent into the Underworld\", Inanna tells the gatekeeper Neti that she is descending to the underworld to attend the funeral of \"Gugalanna, the husband of my elder sister Ereshkigal\". During the Akkadian Period ( 2334 – 2154 BC), Ereshkigal's role as the ruler of the underworld was assigned to Nergal, the god of death. The Akkadians attempted to harmonize this dual rulership of the underworld by making Nergal Ereshkigal's husband. Nergal is the deity most often identified as Ereshkigal's husband. He was also associated with forest fires (and identified with the fire-god, Gibil), fevers, plagues, and war. In myths, he causes destruction and devastation.\n\nNinazu is the son of Ereshkigal and the father of Ningishzida. He is closely associated with the underworld. He was mostly worshipped in Eshnunna during the third millennium BC, but he was later supplanted by the Hurrian storm god Tishpak. A god named \"Ninazu\" was also worshipped at Enegi in southern Sumer, but this may be a different local god by the same name. His divine beast was the \"mušḫuššu\", a kind of dragon, which was later given to Tishpak and then Marduk.\n\nNingishzida is a god who normally lives in the underworld. He is the son of Ninazu and his name may be etymologically derived from a phrase meaning \"Lord of the Good Tree\". In the Sumerian poem, \"The Death of Gilgamesh\", the hero Gilgamesh dies and meets Ningishzida, along with Dumuzid, in the underworld. Gudea, the Sumerian king of the city-state of Lagash, revered Ningishzida as his personal protector. In the myth of Adapa, Dumuzid and Ningishzida are described as guarding the gates of the highest Heaven. Ningishzida was associated with the constellation Hydra.\n\nDumuzid, later known by the corrupted form Tammuz, is the ancient Mesopotamian god of shepherds and the primary consort of the goddess Inanna. His sister is the goddess Geshtinanna. In addition to being the god of shepherds, Dumuzid was also an agricultural deity associated with the growth of plants. Ancient Near Eastern peoples associated Dumuzid with the springtime, when the land was fertile and abundant, but, during the summer months, when the land was dry and barren, it was thought that Dumuzid had \"died\". During the month of Dumuzid, which fell in the middle of summer, people all across Sumer would mourn over his death. An enormous number of popular stories circulated throughout the Near East surrounding his death.\n\nGeshtinanna is a rural agricultural goddess sometimes associated with dream interpretation. She is the sister of Dumuzid, the god of shepherds. In one story, she protects her brother when the \"galla\" demons come to drag him down to the underworld by hiding him in successively in four different places. In another version of the story, she refuses to tell the \"galla\" where he is hiding, even after they torture her. The \"galla\" eventually take Dumuzid away after he is betrayed by an unnamed \"friend\", but Inanna decrees that he and Geshtinanna will alternate places every six months, each spending half the year in the underworld while the other stays in Heaven. While she is in the underworld, Geshtinanna serves as Ereshkigal's scribe.\n\nLugal-irra and Meslamta-ea are a set of twin gods who were worshipped in the village of Kisiga, located in northern Babylonia. They were regarded as guardians of doorways and they may have originally been envisioned as a set of twins guarding the gates of the underworld, who chopped the dead into pieces as they passed through the gates. During the Neo-Assyrian Period (911 BC–609 BC), small depictions of them would be buried at entrances, with Lugal-irra always on the left and Meslamta-ea always on the right. They are identical and are shown wearing horned caps and each holding an axe and a mace. They are identified with the constellation Gemini, which is named after them.\n\nNeti is the gatekeeper of the underworld. In the story of \"Inanna's Descent into the Underworld\", he leads Inanna through the seven gates of the underworld, removing one of her garments at each gate so that when she comes before Ereshkigal she is naked and symbolically powerless. Belet-Seri is a chthonic underworld goddess who was thought to record the names of the deceased as they entered the underworld. Enmesarra is a minor deity of the underworld. Seven or eight other minor deities were said to be his offspring. His symbol was the \"suššuru\" (a kind of pigeon). In one incantation, Enmesarra and Ninmesharra, his female counterpart, are invoked as ancestors of Enki and as primeval deities. Ennugi is \"the canal inspector of the gods\". He is the son of Enlil or Enmesarra and his wife is the goddess Nanibgal. He is associated with the underworld and he may be Gugalanna, the first husband of Ereshkigal, under a different name.\n\nThe ancient Mesopotamians also believed that the underworld was home to many demons, which are sometimes referred to as \"offspring of \"arali\"\". These demons could sometimes leave the underworld and terrorize mortals on earth. One class of demons that were believed to reside in the underworld were known as \"galla\"; their primary purpose appears to have been to drag unfortunate mortals back to Kur. They are frequently referenced in magical texts, and some texts describe them as being seven in number. Several extant poems describe the \"galla\" dragging the god Dumuzid into the underworld. Like other demons, however, \"galla\" could also be benevolent and, in a hymn from King Gudea of Lagash ( 2144 – 2124 BC), a minor god named Ig-alima is described as \"the great \"galla\" of Girsu\".\n\nLamashtu was a demonic goddess with the \"head of a lion, the teeth of a donkey, naked breasts, a hairy body, hands stained (with blood?), long fingers and fingernails, and the feet of Anzû.\" She was believed to feed on the blood of human infants and was widely blamed as the cause of miscarriages and cot deaths. Although Lamashtu has traditionally been identified as a demoness, the fact that she could cause evil on her own without the permission of other deities strongly indicates that she was seen as a goddess in her own right. Mesopotamian peoples protected against her using amulets and talismans. She was believed to ride in her boat on the river of the underworld and she was associated with donkeys. She was believed to be the daughter of An.\n\nPazuzu is a demonic god who was well-known to the Babylonians and Assyrians throughout the first millennium BC. He is shown with \"a rather canine face with abnormally bulging eyes, a scaly body, a snake-headed penis, the talons of a bird and usually wings.\" He was believed to be the son of the god Hanbi. He was usually regarded as evil, but he could also sometimes be a beneficent entity who protected against winds bearing pestilence and he was thought to be able to force Lamashtu back to the underworld. Amulets bearing his image were positioned in dwellings to protect infants from Lamashtu and pregnant women frequently wore amulets with his head on them as protection from her. Ironically, Pazuzu appears in \"The Exorcist\" films as the demon that possesses the little girl.\n\nŠul-pa-e's name means \"youthful brilliance\", but he was not envisioned as youthful god. According to one tradition, he was the consort of Ninhursag, a tradition which contradicts the usual portrayal of Enki as Ninhursag's consort. In one Sumerian poem, offerings to made to Šhul-pa-e in the underworld and, in later mythology, he was one of the demons of the underworld.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33843194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33843194", "title": "Bebidja", "text": "Bebidja\n\nBebidja is an area of Chad. It has large oil reserves and has such been of interest to foreign oil companies such as ExxonMobil, Shell and Elf.\n"}
{"id": "4695968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695968", "title": "Census division", "text": "Census division\n\nCensus division is an official term in Canada and the United States. The census divisions of Canada are second-level census geographic unit, below provinces and territories, and above \"census subdivisions\" and \"dissemination areas\". In provinces where they exist, the census division may correspond to a county, a regional municipality or a regional district. \n\nIn the United States, the Census Bureau divides the country into four census regions and nine census divisions. The bureau also divides counties (or county equivalents) into either census county divisions or minor civil division, depending on the state. The American state of Alaska does not include counties, instead being divided into 19 boroughs and 10 census divisions.\n"}
{"id": "39122452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39122452", "title": "Citizens' Climate Lobby", "text": "Citizens' Climate Lobby\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobby (CCL) is an international grassroots environmental group that trains and supports volunteers to build relationships with their elected representatives in order to influence climate policy. The CCL is a registered 501(c)(4) with approximately $300 thousand in revenue in the United States in 2015. Operating since 2007, the goal of CCL is to build political support across party lines to put a price on carbon, specifically a revenue neutral carbon fee and dividend (CF&D) at the national level. CCL is supported by notable climate scientists James Hansen, Katharine Hayhoe, and Daniel Kammen. CCL's advisory board also includes former Secretary of State George P. Shultz, former US Representative Bob Inglis, actor Don Cheadle, and RESULTS founder Sam Daley-Harris.\n\nFounded in the United States, CCL has groups in Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Côte d'Ivoire, France, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Iceland, India, Italy, Kenya, Mexico, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Panama, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Serbia, Scotland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, the Ukraine, and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Citizens' Climate Lobby is a non-partisan organization with members throughout the United States, Canada and other countries, which advocates for effective climate legislation. Its key purposes are listed as creating a political will for a sustainable climate, while empowering individuals to exercise their personal and political power. With the international/US headquarters in Coronado, California, and a Canadian national office in Sudbury, Ontario, Citizens' Climate Lobby is composed of local volunteer groups who lobby their elected representatives and work through local outreach and media. Their goal is to cut greenhouse gas emissions and promote a transition to a renewable energy economy through a market-based approach: a revenue neutral 'carbon fee and dividend' approach to pricing carbon pollution from fossil fuels, and simultaneously ending subsidies to fossil fuel companies. In the United States, using a market-based approach by putting a price on carbon is gaining support from both Republicans and Democrats. CCL believes that a revenue neutral carbon fee and dividend is a bipartisian solution that would effectively address carbon emissions, while not relying on a complex regulation approach.\n\nThe Citizens' Climate lobby originated in the United States in 2007 after founder Marshall Saunders recognized the need for progressive climate legislation. Saunders, a successful businessman turned philanthropist, internationally recognized for his work in micro-credit, became increasingly concerned about climate change. Saunders increasingly recognized that while it was necessary for individuals to change their own behavior in the face of climate change, it would never be enough; the time had come for Congress to discontinue subsidizing the fossil fuel industry. With ever-rising energy production and increased use Saunders believed effective legislation was necessary to cut carbon emissions, by putting a price on carbon.\n\nSaunders coordinated his efforts to establish Citizens' Climate Lobby with RESULTS, an organization committed to helping volunteer organizations seeking legislative changes to become more effective. Groups of volunteers organized by electoral districts could work through local media and elected officials to build public support and political will for change. Citizens' Climate Lobby established its primary, interconnected goals – to achieve legislation at the federal level that would effectively mitigate climate change, to create widespread political will for a sustainable climate, and to empower citizens to better exercise their own political and personal will. United States leadership is widely seen as critical in international emissions reduction efforts, and particularly in carbon pricing, as this would encourage other countries to follow suit with similar legislation.\n\nThe Citizens' Climate Lobby held its first annual conference in 2009 in Washington D.C., bringing together representatives from around the United States as well as several Canadians. These Canadians subsequently led the establishment of the organization within Canada in 2011, with the first chapter emerging in Sudbury, Ontario.\n\nSince the initial development of Citizens' Climate Lobby, the group has rapidly grown and spread, from 3 local groups in 2007 to 327 groups in May 2016. They are located throughout the United States and Canada, and more recently branching out to other countries including Sweden, Bangladesh (both starting in 2013), Australia, Germany, India, Nepal, Panama, United Kingdom, Burundi, Brazil, Cameroon, Chile, France, Kenya, Iceland, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Qatar, Poland, Romania, Portugal, Serbia, Scotland, Switzerland and the Ukraine.\n\nVolunteers in local chapters meet monthly for teleconference lectures by climate experts and communication with other groups, to discuss coordinated actions to be undertaken by members, to practice skills involved in lobbying politicians and dealing with media, and to plan local outreach. These activities support the ongoing goals of the organization and contribute to progress toward effective carbon pricing legislation.\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobby proposes national legislation that would reduce US greenhouse gas emissions by placing a fee on carbon dioxide () or equivalent gases. The fee would be levied against all fossil fuels at their point of entry into the economy. The revenue that would be collected would be 100% returned as a monthly or annual payment to every American household. This would protect low and middle class Americans from the rising consumer costs associated with the carbon fee. This idea is known as a carbon fee and dividend.\n\nCCL's proposal would start the fee at US $15 per ton of equivalent (3/4 of a penny per pound) and rise $10 per ton each year (1/2 of a penny per pound). The fee would continue to rise until total US equivalent emissions have been reduced to 10% of US equivalent emissions in 1990. To protect US businesses from competition from other countries that do not have carbon pricing mechanisms, a border adjustment would be enacted. Similar to the Montreal Protocol, goods coming from countries without a carbon price would be subjected to a fee at the border. Goods leaving the US for sale in a country without a carbon price would be reimbursed that fee at the border. In addition, all existing subsidies of fossil fuels, including tax credits, would be phased out over the 5 years following enactment.\n\nOn September 1, 2016 California State Legislature passed a measure that urges the United States Congress to enact a tax on carbon-based fossil fuels. The proposal is revenue-neutral, with all money collected going to the bottom 2/3 of American households. So while the resolution is framed as a tax, it is in fact a carbon fee and dividend scheme.\n\nThe Canadian province of British Columbia enacted a revenue-neutral carbon tax in 2008. The British Columbia carbon tax enabled so called \"carbon funded tax cuts\" because the revenue, instead of being returned as a dividend, is used to offset corporate and personal income taxes. In 2015, a review of British Columbia's emissions found that they had fallen 16% since 2008, while economic activity outperformed the rest of Canada. The policy has been called \"popular across the political spectrum\" and been considered a model for policies in other states and countries.\n\nIn 2016, a group called CarbonWA, allied but unaffiliated with the Citizens Climate Lobby, submitted a carbon pricing measure to the ballot in the State of Washington. The initiative, known as Washington Initiative 732, would impose a steadily rising fee on emissions of carbon dioxide, and use that revenue to offset the state's sales tax, business tax, and to expand the state's version of the earned income tax credit.\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobby advocates putting a price on carbon based on the support of both conservative and liberal economists, including: George Shultz, Gary Becker, Gregory Mankiw, Art Laffer, Nicholas Stern, and Shi-Ling Hsu.\n\nShultz was former secretary of state under President Ronald Reagan. Becker is Nobel laureate economist and economics professor at the University of Chicago. Greg Mankiw was Mitt Romney's former economic adviser. Nicholas Stern is chair of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics and also chair of the Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy (CCCEP) at Leeds University and LSE. Shi-Ling Hsu is the D'Alemberte Professor and Associate Dean for Environmental Programs, Florida State University College of Law.\n\nShultz and Becker support a revenue-neutral carbon tax (where all the revenue collected is paid back to each household in the form a dividend): \"We argue for revenue neutrality on the grounds that this tax should be exclusively for the purpose of leveling the playing field, not for financing some other government programs or for expanding the government sector. And revenue neutrality means that it will not have fiscal drag on economic growth.\"\n\nEconomist and law professor Shi-Ling Hsu also supports a revenue-neutral carbon tax. In his book \"The Case for a Carbon Tax, Getting Past our Hangups to Effective Climate Policy\" and in his talks, he explains the economics of carbon pricing and why he believes that putting a price on carbon in the form of a carbon tax is more effective and efficient than cap and trade or command and control style legislation.\n\nEconomist Nicholas Stern also supports putting a price on carbon as explained in his Stern Review. The Stern Review is significant in that it is the largest and most widely known and discussed economic report on climate change of its kind. Entitled \"Stern Review on the Economics of Climate Change\", this 700-page report was released for the British government on 30 October 2006. In it, Stern discusses the effect of global warming on the world economy, and states that climate change is the greatest and widest-ranging market failure ever seen, presenting a unique challenge for economics. According to the Stern Review, without action, the overall costs of climate change will be equivalent to losing at least 5% of global gross domestic product (GDP) each year, now and forever. The Review provides prescriptions including environmental taxes to minimize the economic and social disruptions. The Stern Review's main conclusion is that the benefits of strong, early action on climate change far outweigh the costs of not acting. Some of the report's main conclusions are:\n\n\nIn late-2012 the Energy Modeling Forum (EMF), coordinated by Stanford University, released its EMF29 study titled \"The role of border carbon adjustment in unilateral climate policy\". It is well understood that unilateral climate policy can lead to emissions leakage. As one example, trade-exposed emissions-intensive industries may simply relocate to regions with laxer climate protection. A border carbon adjustment (BCA) program can help counter this and related effects. Under such a policy, tariffs are levied on the carbon embodied in imported goods from unregulated trading partners while the original climate protection payments for exported goods are rebated. The study finds that the BCA programs evaluated can reduce emissions leakage, can yield modest gains in global economic efficiency, and will shift substantial costs from abating OECD counties to non-abating non-OECD countries. This last finding is regressive and counter to the equity principles contained in the UNFCCC.\n\nA private economic modeling company, Regional Economic Models, Inc (REMI), was commissioned by Citizens' Climate Lobby to conduct an objective analysis of the economic impacts of a revenue neutral carbon fee and dividend in the US. The study found that, if enacted in 2016, by 2036: US emissions would be reduced 50% below 1990 levels; because of the economic stimulus of recycling carbon fee revenue back to households 2.8 million jobs would be added to the American economy; improved air quality would result in 230,000 premature deaths avoided over that time period.\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobby is a network involving its US, international and Canadian head offices, and the dedicated volunteers that comprise the various chapters throughout the United States and Canada and other countries. Marshall Saunders remains the organization's president alongside his wife, Pamela Saunders. Mark Reynolds is the group's executive director. Cathy Orlando serves as the manager for the Canadian branch of the Citizens' Climate Lobby.\n\nRegional coordinators in the US regularly communicate with the local group leaders in their geographical region. Aside from the few paid staff members, the organization is run by thousands of volunteers. Often volunteers will initiate a new group by themselves, or with just one or two others, until they find enough other people nearby to formally start a new group. When a new group is started, orientation and training is provided through the respective national office.\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobby is coordinated through regular email communication at all levels, monthly international teleconferences and group meetings, weekly international, national or regional group leader calls; national websites; social media communication at different levels.\n\nThe largest focal point each year is the Annual International Conference in June, which includes meeting with and lobbying as many members of Congress as possible in Washington D.C. Canada's Citizens' Climate Lobby has in the past coordinated its annual meeting and lobbying activities in Ottawa with other organizations but held its first Annual Conference and Lobbying Days in November 2013.\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobby additionally holds a smaller, secondary conference known as the Congressional Education day each November.\n\nThe work of Citizens' Climate Lobby has an influence at the local and the national scale. At the local scale, Citizens' Climate Lobby brings concerned citizens together as a community to educate themselves and others, including through the media, and to create a voice on climate change to present to locally elected representatives of the federal government. This includes Members of the House of Representatives and Senators in the United States and Members of Parliament and Senators (appointed) in Canada.\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobby believes it is important for members to meet and create a relationship with local representatives as a means of \"putting a face\" on local chapters and to provide information and state their concerns regarding climate change legislation. When there is an important climate bill being considered in the nation's capital, members of Citizens' Climate Lobby bring it to the attention of their elected representatives and lobby for their support as appropriate. The chapters also act to keep citizens informed about climate legislation and timely actions to take. Monthly local chapter meetings allow members to share information about climate change issues, to plan for upcoming events related to climate change and to provide mutual support.\n\nAt the national level Citizens' Climate Lobby chapters can directly influence federal legislation via the work completed at the local level. These chapters contribute to a growing network of people across the country who share the same initiative. Together these individuals and groups become a powerful voice that can capture the attention of other citizens and of municipal and federal representatives alike.\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobbyists create political will for a sustainable climate and empower others in many ways, including by:\n\n\nCanada's Citizens' Climate Lobby participates in many climate related projects and actions. Some of the initiatives to date include:\n\n\nIn Germany, CCL is known as \"\" and abbreviated . Like other CCL groups, seek a steadily rising and socially equitable price on carbon. However their first focus is on overhauling the European Union Emissions Trading System (EUETS) as follows:\n\n\nAs long as there is no effective price signal at the EU level, call for a national carbon tax for Germany on all emissions as a transitional measure.\n\nA central theme for is that, for an equitable and socially-compatible carbon price, all revenues must be redistributed back to the population on a per-capita basis.\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobby is a non-partisan group that develops and maintains relationships with and may coordinate some activities with a broad base of organizations that share similar goals. In 2013, Bill McKibben, founder of 350.org, endorsed CCL by saying \"I love working with Citizens' Climate Lobby—their relentless focus on the need for a fee-and-dividend solution is helping drive the debate in precisely the right direction. I'm enormously grateful for their persistence and creativity.\"\n\n\nCitizens' Climate Lobby sites and groups\n\n\nVideos\n\n"}
{"id": "231079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231079", "title": "Demographic transition", "text": "Demographic transition\n\nDemographic transition (DT) is the transition from high birth and death rates to lower birth and death rates as a country or region develops from a pre-industrial to an industrialized economic system. The theory was proposed in 1929 by the American demographer Warren Thompson, who observed changes, or transitions, in birth and death rates in industrialized societies over the previous 200 years. Most developed countries have completed the demographic transition and have low birth rates; most developing countries are in the process of this transition. The major (relative) exceptions are some poor countries, mainly in sub-Saharan Africa and some Middle Eastern countries, which are poor or affected by government policy or civil strife, notably, Pakistan, Palestinian territories, Yemen, and Afghanistan.\n\nThe demographic transition model, in isolation, can be taken to predict that birth rates will continue to go down as societies grow increasingly wealthy; however, recent data contradicts this, suggesting that beyond a certain level of development birth rates increase again. In addition, in the very long term, the demographic transition should be reversed via evolutionary pressure for higher fertility and higher mortality.\n\nThe existence of some kind of demographic transition is widely accepted in the social sciences because of the well-established historical correlation linking dropping fertility to social and economic development. Scholars debate whether industrialization and higher incomes lead to lower population, or whether lower populations lead to industrialization and higher incomes. Scholars also debate to what extent various proposed and sometimes inter-related factors such as higher per capita income, higher female income, lower mortality, old-age security, and rise of demand for human capital are involved.\n\nThe theory is based on an interpretation of demographic history developed in 1929 by the American demographer Warren Thompson (1887–1973). Adolphe Landry of France made similar observations on demographic patterns and population growth potential around 1934. In the 1940s and 1950s Frank W. Notestein developed a more formal theory of demographic transition. By 2009, the existence of a negative correlation between fertility and industrial development had become one of the most widely accepted findings in social science.\n\nThe transition involves four stages, or possibly five.\n\n\nAs with all models, this is an idealized picture of population change in these countries. The model is a generalization that applies to these countries as a group and may not accurately describe all individual cases. The extent to which it applies to less-developed societies today remains to be seen. Many countries such as China, Brazil and Thailand have passed through the Demographic Transition Model (DTM) very quickly due to fast social and economic change. Some countries, particularly African countries, appear to be stalled in the second stage due to stagnant development and the effect of AIDS.\n\nIn pre-industrial society, death rates and birth rates were both high, and fluctuated rapidly according to natural events, such as drought and disease, to produce a relatively constant and young population. Family planning and contraception were virtually nonexistent; therefore, birth rates were essentially only limited by the ability of women to bear children. Emigration depressed death rates in some special cases (for example, Europe and particularly the Eastern United States during the 19th century), but, overall, death rates tended to match birth rates, often exceeding 40 per 1000 per year. Children contributed to the economy of the household from an early age by carrying water, firewood, and messages, caring for younger siblings, sweeping, washing dishes, preparing food, and working in the fields. Raising a child cost little more than feeding him or her; there were no education or entertainment expenses. Thus, the total cost of raising children barely exceeded their contribution to the household. In addition, as they became adults they become a major input to the family business, mainly farming, and were the primary form of insurance for adults in old age. In India, an adult son was all that prevented a widow from falling into destitution. While death rates remained high there was no question as to the need for children, even if the means to prevent them had existed.\n\nDuring this stage, the society evolves in accordance with Malthusian paradigm, with population essentially determined by the food supply. Any fluctuations in food supply (either positive, for example, due to technology improvements, or negative, due to droughts and pest invasions) tend to translate directly into population fluctuations. Famines resulting in significant mortality are frequent. Overall, population dynamics during stage one are comparable to those of animals living in the wild. According to Edward, Revocatus. (2016) This is the earlier stage of demographic transition in the world and also characterized by primary activities such as small fishing activities, farming practices, pastoralism and petty businesses.\n\nThis stage leads to a fall in death rates and an increase in population. The changes leading to this stage in Europe were initiated in the Agricultural Revolution of the 18th century and were initially quite slow. In the 20th century, the falls in death rates in developing countries tended to be substantially faster. Countries in this stage include Yemen, Afghanistan, the Palestinian territories and Iraq and much of Sub-Saharan Africa (but do not include South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho, Namibia, Kenya, Gabon and Ghana, which have begun to move into stage 3).\n\nThe decline in the death rate is due initially to two factors:\n\nA consequence of the decline in mortality in Stage Two is an increasingly rapid growth in population growth (a.k.a. \"population explosion\") as the gap between deaths and births grows wider and wider. Note that this growth is not due to an increase in fertility (or birth rates) but to a decline in deaths. This change in population occurred in north-western Europe during the 19th century due to the Industrial Revolution. During the second half of the 20th century less-developed countries entered Stage Two, creating the worldwide rapid growth of number of living persons that has demographers concerned today. In this stage of DT, countries are vulnerable to become failed states in the absence of progressive governments.\nAnother characteristic of Stage Two of the demographic transition is a change in the age structure of the population. In Stage One, the majority of deaths are concentrated in the first 5–10 years of life. Therefore, more than anything else, the decline in death rates in Stage Two entails the increasing survival of children and a growing population. Hence, the age structure of the population becomes increasingly youthful and start to have big families and more of these children enter the reproductive cycle of their lives while maintaining the high fertility rates of their parents. The bottom of the \"age pyramid\" widens first where children, teenagers and infants are here, accelerating population growth rate. The age structure of such a population is illustrated by using an example from the Third World today.\n\nIn Stage 3 of the Demographic Transition Model (DTM), death rates are low and birth rates diminish, as a rule accordingly of enhanced economic conditions, an expansion in women’s status and education, and access to contraception. The decrease in birth rate fluctuates from nation to nation, as does the time span in which it is experienced. Stage Three moves the population towards stability through a decline in the birth rate. Several fertility factors contribute to this eventual decline, and are generally similar to those associated with sub-replacement fertility, although some are speculative:\n\n\nThe resulting changes in the age structure of the population include a decline in the youth dependency ratio and eventually population aging. The population structure becomes less triangular and more like an elongated balloon. During the period between the decline in youth dependency and rise in old age dependency there is a demographic window of opportunity that can potentially produce economic growth through an increase in the ratio of working age to dependent population; the demographic dividend.\n\nHowever, unless factors such as those listed above are allowed to work, a society's birth rates may not drop to a low level in due time, which means that the society cannot proceed to stage Three and is locked in what is called a demographic trap.\n\nCountries that have witnessed a fertility decline of over 50% from their pre-transition levels include: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Panama, Jamaica, Mexico, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Turkey, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, South Africa, India, Saudi Arabia, and many Pacific islands.\n\nCountries that have experienced a fertility decline of 25–50% include: Guatemala, Tajikistan, Egypt and Zimbabwe.\n\nCountries that have experienced a fertility decline of less than 25% include: Sudan, Niger, Afghanistan.\n\nThis occurs where birth and death rates are both low, leading to a total population stable. Death rates are low for a number of reasons, primarily lower rates of diseases and higher production of food. The birth rate is low because people have more opportunities to choose if they want children; this is made possible by improvements in contraception or women gaining more independence and work opportunities. The DTM is only a suggestion about the future population levels of a country, not a prediction.\n\nCountries that are at this stage (2 < Total Fertility Rate < 2.5 in 2015) include: Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cabo Verde, El Salvador, Faroe Islands, Grenada, Guam, India, Indonesia, Kosovo, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, New Caledonia, Nicaragua, Palau, Peru, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Tunisia, Turkey and Venezuela.\n\nThe original Demographic Transition model has just four stages, but additional stages have been proposed. Both more-fertile and less-fertile futures have been claimed as a Stage Five.\n\nSome countries have sub-replacement fertility (that is, below 2.1–2.2 children per woman). Replacement fertility is generally slightly higher than 2 (the level which replaces the two parents) both because boys are born more often than girls (about 1.05–1.1 to 1) and to compensate for deaths prior to full reproduction. Many European and East Asian countries now have higher death rates than birth rates. Population aging and population decline may eventually occur, assuming that the fertility rate does not change and sustained mass immigration does not occur.\n\nIn an article in the August 2009 issue of \"Nature\", Myrskylä, Kohler and Francesco Billari argue that the previously negative relationship between \"development\", as measured by the Human Development Index (HDI), and birth rates has become J-shaped. The HDI is a composite of life expectancy, income, and level of education. Development promotes fertility decline at HDI levels below 0.9 but further advances in HDI cause a small rebound in birth rate. In many countries with very high levels of development, fertility rates are now approaching two children per woman — although there are exceptions, notably Germany, Italy and Japan.\n\nIn the current century, most developed countries have increased fertility. From the point of view of evolutionary biology, wealthier people having fewer children is unexpected, as natural selection would be expected to favor individuals who are willing and able to convert plentiful resources into plentiful fertile descendants. This may be the result of a departure from the environment of evolutionary adaptedness. Thus, from the perspective of evolutionary psychology, the modern environment is exerting evolutionary pressure for higher fertility.\n\nJane Falkingham of Southampton University has noted that \"We've actually got population projections wrong consistently over the last 50 years... we've underestimated the improvements in mortality... but also we've not been very good at spotting the trends in fertility.\" In 2004 a United Nations office published its guesses for global population in the year 2300; estimates ranged from a \"low estimate\" of 2.3 billion (tending to −0.32% per year) to a \"high estimate\" of 36.4 billion (tending to +0.54% per year), which were contrasted with a deliberately \"unrealistic\" illustrative \"constant fertility\" scenario of 134 trillion (obtained if 1995–2000 fertility rates stay constant into the far future).\nIn stage 5 of the demographic transition, a country encounters misfortune as a whole this is because the death rate becomes higher than the birth rate. There will be a negative population growth rate which will affect the country. This will take a generation or two before the population grows back up.\n\nThe decline in death rate and birth rate that occurs during the demographic transition may transform the age structure. When the death rate declines during the second stage of the transition, the result is primarily an increase in the child population. The reason being that when the death rate is high (stage one), the infant mortality rate is very high, often above 200 deaths per 1000 children born. When the death rate falls or improves, this may include lower infant mortality rate and increased child survival. Over time, as individuals with increased survival rates age, there may also be an increase in the number of older children, teenagers, and young adults. This implies that there is an increase in the fertile population proportion which, with constant fertility rates, may lead to an increase in the number of children born. This will further increase the growth of the child population. The second stage of the demographic transition, therefore, implies a rise in child dependency and creates a youth bulge in the population structure. As a population continues to move through the demographic transition into the third stage, fertility declines and the youth bulge prior to the decline ages out of child dependency into the working ages. This stage of the transition is often referred to as the golden age, and is typically when populations see the greatest advancements in living standards and economic development. However, further declines in both mortality and fertility will eventually result in an aging population, and a rise in the aged dependency ratio. An increase of the aged dependency ratio often indicates that a population has reached below replacement levels of fertility, and as result does not have enough people in the working ages to support the economy, and the growing dependent population. \n\nBetween 1750 and 1975 England experienced the transition from high levels of both mortality and fertility, to low levels. A major factor was the sharp decline in the death rate due to infectious diseases, which has fallen from about 11 per 1,000 to less than 1 per 1,000. By contrast, the death rate from other causes was 12 per 1,000 in 1850 and has not declined markedly. The agricultural revolution and the development of transport, initiated by the construction of canals, led to greater availability of food and coal, and enabled the Industrial Revolution to improve the standard of living. Scientific discoveries and medical breakthroughs did not, in general, contribute importantly to the early major decline in infectious disease mortality.\n\nIn the 1980s and early 1990s, the Irish demographic status converged to the European norm. Mortality rose above the European Community average, and in 1991 Irish fertility fell to replacement level. The peculiarities of Ireland's past demography and its recent rapid changes challenge established theory. The recent changes have mirrored inward changes in Irish society, with respect to family planning, women in the work force, the sharply declining power of the Catholic Church, and the emigration factor.\n\nFrance displays real divergences from the standard model of Western demographic evolution. The uniqueness of the French case arises from its specific demographic history, its historic cultural values, and its internal regional dynamics. France's demographic transition was unusual in that the mortality and the natality decreased at the same time, thus there was no demographic boom in the 19th century.\n\nFrance's demographic profile is similar to its European neighbors and to developed countries in general, yet it seems to be staving off the population decline of Western countries. With 62.9 million inhabitants in 2006, it was the second most populous country in the European Union, and it displayed a certain demographic dynamism, with a growth rate of 2.4% between 2000 and 2005, above the European average. More than two-thirds of that growth can be ascribed to a natural increase resulting from high fertility and birthrates. In contrast, France is one of the developed nations whose migratory balance is rather weak, which is an original feature at the European level. Several interrelated reasons account for such singularities, in particular the impact of pro-family policies accompanied by greater unmarried households and out-of-wedlock births. These general demographic trends parallel equally important changes in regional demographics. Since 1982 the same significant tendencies have occurred throughout mainland France: demographic stagnation in the least-populated rural regions and industrial regions in the northeast, with strong growth in the southwest and along the Atlantic coast, plus dynamism in metropolitan areas. Shifts in population between regions account for most of the differences in growth. The varying demographic evolution regions can be analyzed though the filter of several parameters, including residential facilities, economic growth, and urban dynamism, which yield several distinct regional profiles. The distribution of the French population therefore seems increasingly defined not only by interregional mobility but also by the residential preferences of individual households. These challenges, linked to configurations of population and the dynamics of distribution, inevitably raise the issue of town and country planning. The most recent census figures show that an outpouring of the urban population means that fewer rural areas are continuing to register a negative migratory flow – two-thirds of rural communities have shown some since 2000. The spatial demographic expansion of large cities amplifies the process of peri-urbanization yet is also accompanied by movement of selective residential flow, social selection, and sociospatial segregation based on income.\n\nMcNicoll (2006) examines the common features behind the striking changes in health and fertility in East and Southeast Asia in the 1960s–1990’s, focusing on seven countries: Taiwan and South Korea (\"tiger\" economies), Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia (\"second wave\" countries), and China and Vietnam (\"market-Leninist\" economies). Demographic change can be seen as a byproduct of social and economic development together with, in some cases, strong governmental pressures. The transition sequence entailed the establishment of an effective, typically authoritarian, system of local administration, providing a framework for promotion and service delivery in health, education, and family planning. Subsequent economic liberalization offered new opportunities for upward mobility — and risks of backsliding —, accompanied by the erosion of social capital and the breakdown or privatization of service programs.\n\nAs of 2013, India is in the later half of the third stage of the demographic transition, with a population of 1.23 billion. It is nearly 40 years behind in the demographic transition process compared to EU countries, Japan, etc. The present demographic transition stage of India along with its higher population base will yield a rich demographic dividend in future decades.\n\nCha (2007) analyzes a panel data set to explore how industrial revolution, demographic transition, and human capital accumulation interacted in Korea from 1916–38. Income growth and public investment in health caused mortality to fall, which suppressed fertility and promoted education. Industrialization, skill premium, and closing gender wage gap further induced parents to opt for child quality. Expanding demand for education was accommodated by an active public school building program. The interwar agricultural depression aggravated traditional income inequality, raising fertility and impeding the spread of mass schooling. Landlordism collapsed in the wake of de-colonization, and the consequent reduction in inequality accelerated human and physical capital accumulation, hence leading to growth in South Korea.\n\nCampbell has studied the demography of 19th-century Madagascar in the light of demographic transition theory. Both supporters and critics of the theory hold to an intrinsic opposition between human and \"natural\" factors, such as climate, famine, and disease, influencing demography. They also suppose a sharp chronological divide between the precolonial and colonial eras, arguing that whereas \"natural\" demographic influences were of greater importance in the former period, human factors predominated thereafter. Campbell argues that in 19th-century Madagascar the human factor, in the form of the Merina state, was the predominant demographic influence. However, the impact of the state was felt through natural forces, and it varied over time. In the late 18th and early 19th centuries Merina state policies stimulated agricultural production, which helped to create a larger and healthier population and laid the foundation for Merina military and economic expansion within Madagascar. From 1820, the cost of such expansionism led the state to increase its exploitation of forced labor at the expense of agricultural production and thus transformed it into a negative demographic force. Infertility and infant mortality, which were probably more significant influences on overall population levels than the adult mortality rate, increased from 1820 due to disease, malnutrition, and stress, all of which stemmed from state forced labor policies. Available estimates indicate little if any population growth for Madagascar between 1820 and 1895. The demographic \"crisis\" in Africa, ascribed by critics of the demographic transition theory to the colonial era, stemmed in Madagascar from the policies of the imperial Merina regime, which in this sense formed a link to the French regime of the colonial era. Campbell thus questions the underlying assumptions governing the debate about historical demography in Africa and suggests that the demographic impact of political forces be reevaluated in terms of their changing interaction with \"natural\" demographic influences.\n\nRussia entered stage two of the transition in the 18th century, simultaneously with the rest of Europe, though the effect of transition remained limited to a modest decline in death rates and steady population growth. The population of Russia nearly quadrupled during the 19th century, from 30 million to 133 million, and continued to grow until the First World War and the turmoil that followed. Russia then quickly transitioned through stage three. Though fertility rates rebounded initially and almost reached 7 children/woman in the mid-1920s, they were depressed by the 1931–33 famine, crashed due to the Second World War in 1941, and only rebounded to a sustained level of 3 children/woman after the war. By 1970 Russia was firmly in stage four, with crude birth rates and crude death rates on the order of 15/1000 and 9/1000 respectively.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, Russia underwent a unique demographic transition; observers call it a \"demographic catastrophe\": the number of deaths exceeded the number of births, life expectancy fell sharply (especially for males) and the number of suicides increased. From 1992 through 2011, the number of deaths exceeded the number of births.\n\nGreenwood and Seshadri (2002) show that from 1800 to 1940 there was a demographic shift from a mostly rural US population with high fertility, with an average of seven children born per white woman, to a minority (43%) rural population with low fertility, with an average of two births per white woman. This shift resulted from technological progress. A sixfold increase in real wages made children more expensive in terms of forgone opportunities to work and increases in agricultural productivity reduced rural demand for labor, a substantial portion of which traditionally had been performed by children in farm families.\n\nA simplification of the DTM theory proposes an initial decline in mortality followed by a later drop in fertility. The changing demographics of the U.S. in the last two centuries did not parallel this model. Beginning around 1800, there was a sharp fertility decline; at this time, an average woman usually produced seven births per lifetime, but by 1900 this number had dropped to nearly four. A mortality decline was not observed in the U.S. until almost 1900—a hundred years following the drop in fertility.\n\nHowever, this late decline occurred from a very low initial level. During the 17th and 18th centuries, crude death rates in much of colonial North America ranged from 15 to 25 deaths per 1000 residents per year (levels of up to 40 per 1000 being typical during stages one and two). Life expectancy at birth was on the order of 40 and, in some places, reached 50, and a resident of 18th century Philadelphia who reached age 20 could have expected, on average, additional 40 years of life.\n\nThis phenomenon is explained by the pattern of colonization of the United States. Sparsely populated interior of the country allowed ample room to accommodate all the \"excess\" people, counteracting mechanisms (spread of communicable diseases due to overcrowding, low real wages and insufficient calories per capita due to the limited amount of available agricultural land) which led to high mortality in the Old World. With low mortality but stage 1 birth rates, the United States necessarily experienced exponential population growth (from less than 4 million people in 1790, to 23 million in 1850, to 76 million in 1900.)\n\nThe only area where this pattern did not hold was the American South. High prevalence of deadly endemic diseases such as malaria kept mortality as high as 45–50 per 1000 residents per year in 18th century North Carolina. In New Orleans, mortality remained so high (mainly due to yellow fever) that the city was characterized as the \"death capital of the United States\" – at the level of 50 per 1000 population or higher – well into the second half of the 19th century.\n\nToday, the U.S. is recognized as having both low fertility and mortality rates. Specifically, birth rates stand at 14 per 1000 per year and death rates at 8 per 1000 per year.\n\nIt must be remembered that the DTM is only a model and cannot necessarily predict the future. It does however give an indication of what the future birth and death rates may be for an underdeveloped country, together with the total population size. Most particularly, of course, the DTM makes no comment on change in population due to migration. It is not applicable for high levels of development, as it has been shown that after a HDI of 0.9 the fertility increases again.\n\nDTM does not account for recent phenomena such as AIDS; in these areas HIV has become the leading source of mortality. Some trends in waterborne bacterial infant mortality are also disturbing in countries like Malawi, Sudan and Nigeria; for example, progress in the DTM clearly arrested and reversed between 1975 and 2005.\n\nDTM assumes that population changes are induced by industrial changes and increased wealth, without taking into account the role of social change in determining birth rates, e.g., the education of women. In recent decades more work has been done on developing the social mechanisms behind it.\n\nDTM assumes that the birth rate is independent of the death rate. Nevertheless, demographers maintain that there is no historical evidence for society-wide fertility rates rising significantly after high mortality events. Notably, some historic populations have taken many years to replace lives after events such as the Black Death.\n\nSome have claimed that DTM does not explain the early fertility declines in much of Asia in the second half of the 20th century or the delays in fertility decline in parts of the Middle East. Nevertheless, the demographer John C Caldwell has suggested that the reason for the rapid decline in fertility in some developing countries compared to Western Europe, the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand is mainly due to government programs and a massive investment in education both by governments and parents.\n\nThe Second Demographic Transition (SDT) is a conceptual framework first formulated in 1986 by Ron Lesthaeghe and Dirk van de Kaa in a short article that was published in the Dutch sociology journal \"Mens en Maatschappij\". SDT addressed the changes in the patterns of sexual and reproductive behavior which occurred in North America and Western Europe in the period from about 1963, when the birth control pill and other cheap effective contraceptive methods such as the IUD were adopted by the general population, to the present. Combined with the sexual revolution and the increased role of women in society and the workforce the resulting changes have profoundly affected the demographics of industrialized countries resulting in a sub-replacement fertility level.\n\nThe changes, increased numbers of women choosing to not marry or have children, increased cohabitation outside marriage, increased childbearing by single mothers, increased participation by women in higher education and professional careers, and other changes are associated with increased individualism and autonomy, particularly of women. Motivations have changed from traditional and economic ones to those of self-realization.\n\nIn 2015, Nicholas Eberstadt, political economist at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, described the Second Demographic Transition as one in which \"long, stable marriages are out, and divorce or separation are in, along with serial cohabitation and increasingly contingent liaisons.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3805731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3805731", "title": "Departments of Gabon", "text": "Departments of Gabon\n\nThe provinces of Gabon are divided into forty-nine departments. The departments are listed below, by province (capitals in parentheses):\n\n\nThe Department of Cap Estérias (Cap Estérias) was deleted in 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34470179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34470179", "title": "Differential optical absorption spectroscopy", "text": "Differential optical absorption spectroscopy\n\nIn atmospheric chemistry, differential optical absorption spectroscopy (DOAS) is used to measure concentrations of trace gases. When combined with basic optical spectrometers such as prisms or diffraction gratings and automated, ground-based observation platforms, what we have is a cheap and powerful means for the measurement of such trace gas species as ozone and nitrogen dioxide. Typical setups allow for detection limits corresponding to optical depths of 0.0001 along lightpaths of up to typically 15 km and thus allow for the detection also of weak absorbers, such as water vapour, Nitrous acid, Formaldehyde, Tetraoxygen, Iodine oxide, Bromine oxide and Chlorine oxide.\n\nDOAS instruments are often divided into two main groups: passive and active ones. The active DOAS system such as longpath(LP)-systems and cavity-enhanced(CE) DOAS systems have their own light-source, whereas passive ones use the sun as their light source, e.g. MAX(Multi-axial)-DOAS. Also the moon can be used for night-time DOAS measurements, but here usually direct light measurements need to be done instead of scattered light measurements as it is the case for passive DOAS systems such as the MAX-DOAS.\n\nThe change in intensity of a beam of radiation as it travels through a medium that is not emitting is given by Beers law:\n\nwhere \"I\" is the intensity of the radiation, formula_2 is the density of substance, formula_3 is the absorption and scattering cross section and \"s\" is the path. The subscript \"i\" denotes different species, assuming that the medium is composed of multiple substances. Several simplifications can be made. The first is to pull the absorption cross section out of the integral by assuming that it does not change significantly with the path—i.e. that it is a constant. Since the DOAS method is used to measure total column density, and not density per se, the second is to take the integral as a single parameter which we call column density:\n\nThe new, considerably simplified equation now looks like this:\n\nIf that was all there was to it, given any spectrum with sufficient resolution and spectral features, all the species could be solved for by simple algebraic inversion. Active DOAS variants can use the spectrum of the lightsource itself as reference. Unfortunately for passive measurements, where we are measuring from the bottom of the atmosphere and not the top, there is no way to determine the initial intensity, \"I\". Rather, what is done is to take the ratio of two measurements with different paths through the atmosphere and so determine the difference in optical depth between the two columns (Alternative a solar atlas can be employed, but this introduces another important error source to the fitting process, the instrument function itself. If the reference spectrum itself is also recorded with the same setup, these effects will eventually cancel out):\n\nA significant component of a measured spectrum is often given by scattering and continuum components that have a smooth variation with respect to wavelength. Since these don't supply much information, the spectrum can be divided into two parts:\n\nwhere formula_8 is the continuum component of the spectrum and formula_9 is that which remains and we shall call the differential cross-section. Therefore:\n\nwhere we call formula_11 the differential optical depth (DOD). Removing the continuum components and adding in the wavelength dependence produces a matrix equation with which to do the inversion:\n\nWhat this means is that before performing the inversion, the continuum components from both the optical depth and from the species cross sections must be removed. This is the important “trick” of the DOAS method. In practice, this is done by simply fitting a polynomial to the spectrum and then subtracting it. Obviously, this will not produce an exact equality between the measured optical depths and those calculated with the differential cross-sections but the difference is usually small. Alternatively a common method which is applied to remove broad-band structures from the optical density are binomial high-pass filters.\n\nAlso, unless the path difference between the two measurements can be strictly determined and has some physical meaning (such as the distance of telescope and retro-reflector for a longpath-DOAS system), the retrieved quantities, formula_13 will be meaningless. The typical measurement geometry will be as follows: the instrument is always pointing straight up. Measurements are taken at two different times of day: once with the sun high in the sky, and once with it near the horizon. In both cases the light is scattered into the instrument before passing through the troposphere but takes different paths through the stratosphere as shown in the figure.\n\nTo deal with this, we introduce a quantity called the airmass factor which gives the ratio between the vertical column density (the observation is performed looking straight up, with the sun at full zenith) and the slant column density (same observation angle, sun at some other angle):\n\nwhere amf is the airmass factor of species \"i\", formula_15 is the vertical column and formula_16 is the slant column with the sun at zenith angle formula_17. Airmass factors can be determined by radiative transfer calculations.\n\nSome algebra shows the vertical column density to be given by:\n\nwhere formula_19 is the angle at the first measurement geometry and formula_20 is the angle at the second. Note that with this method, the column along the common path will be subtracted from our measurements and cannot be recovered. What this means is that, only the column density in the stratosphere can be retrieved and the lowest point of scatter between the two measurements must be determined to figure out where the column begins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9262770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9262770", "title": "Digital Cadastral DataBase", "text": "Digital Cadastral DataBase\n\nDigital Cadastral DataBase (DCDB) is a computerised map or 'spatial' location showing property boundaries normally in relation to adjoining and other close properties or parcels of land. Commonly used as a basic layer of data used in map based computer programs that gives an outline of the legal boundary of a property. By using lines to represent an area, features such as rivers and roads can be shown in relation to where a property is.\n"}
{"id": "7417294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7417294", "title": "Dodman", "text": "Dodman\n\nA dodman (plural \"dodmen\") or a hoddyman dod is a local English vernacular word for a land snail. The word is used in some of the counties of England. This word is found in the Norfolk dialect, according to the Oxford English Dictionary. Fairfax, in his \"Bulk and Selvedge\" (1674), speaks of “a snayl or dodman.”\n\nHodimadod is a similar word for snail that is more commonly used in the Buckinghamshire dialect.\n\nAlternatively (and apparently now more commonly used in the Norfolk dialect) are the closely related words Dodderman or Doddiman. In everyday folklore, these words are popularly said to be derived from the surname of a travelling cloth seller called Dudman, who supposedly had a bent back and carried a large roll of cloth on his back. The words to dodder, doddery, doddering, meaning to progress in an unsteady manner, are popularly said to have the same derivation.\n\nA traditional Norfolk rhyme goes as follows:\nSource: Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, E. Cobham Brewer, 1894\n\nThe 'inventor' of ley lines, Alfred Watkins, thought that in the words \"dodman\" and the builder's \"hod\" there was a survival of an ancient British term for a surveyor. Watkins felt that the name came about because the snail's two horns resembled a surveyor's two surveying rods. Watkins also supported this idea with an etymology from 'doddering along' and 'dodge' (akin, in his mind, to the series of actions a surveyor would carry out in moving his rod back and forth until it accurately lined up with another one as a backsight or foresight) and the Welsh verb 'dodi' meaning to lay or place. He thus decided that The Long Man of Wilmington was an image of an ancient surveyor.\n"}
{"id": "45679227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45679227", "title": "Dragon's Tail (peninsula)", "text": "Dragon's Tail (peninsula)\n\nThe Dragon's Tail is a modern name for the phantom peninsula in southeast Asia which appeared in medieval Arabian and Renaissance European world maps. It formed the eastern shore of the Great Gulf (Gulf of Thailand) east of the Golden Chersonese (Malaysia), replacing the \"unknown lands\" which Ptolemy and others had thought surrounded the \"Indian Sea\".\n\nThe peninsula known to modern cartographers as the \"Dragon's Tail\" or \"Tiger's Tail\" appeared under various names on different maps.\n\nThe peninsula does not appear in any surviving manuscript of Ptolemy's \"Geography\" or other Greek geographers. Instead, it is first attested in the Ptolemaic-influenced \"Book of the Description of the Earth\" compiled by al-Khwārizmī around  833 AD. Ptolemy's map ended at 180°E of the Fortunate Isles without being able to explain what might lie on the imagined eastern shore of the Indian Ocean or beyond the lands of the Sinae and of Serica in Asia. Chinese Muslims traditionally credit the Companion Saʿd ibn Abi Waqqas with having missionized the country as early as the 7th century; the trading community was large enough that a large-scale massacre is recorded at Yangzhou in 760 amid the An Shi Rebellion against the Tang. Merchants such as Soleiman showed Al-Khwārizmī that the Indian Ocean was not closed as Hipparchus and Ptolemy had held but opened either narrowly or broadly. Al-Khwārizmī left most of Ptolemy's eastern coast but the creation of the strait created a new peninsula, beyond which he placed the Sea of Darkness and the Island of the Jewel.\nBartholomew Dias passed the Cape of Good Hope during a major storm in 1488; within a year or two, Martellus had published a world map showing the communication of the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, creating an unconnected south point of Africa and transforming the eastern end of Ptolemy's shoreline into a great peninsula, similar to that described by Al-Khwārizmī. The area was detailed with locations from Marco Polo and other travelers, including positions formerly related to Ptolemy's Golden Chersonese. A similar peninsula then appeared on the Erdapfel globe drafted by Martin of Bohemia in 1492, just prior to Columbus's return. In the mid-16th century, António Galvão mentioned a map that had been purchased in 1428 by Dom Pedro, eldest son of John I, which described the Cape of Good Hope and included \"the Strait of Magellan\" under the name \"Dragon's Tail\" (). Some South American scholars have taken this at face value as evidence of early and thorough exploration of the Americas, but their claims have not been substantiated.\nChristopher Columbus—at least initially—believed in the existence of the peninsula, whose position and attendant islands considerably shortened the expected distance from the African coast to East Asia. He may have been guided directly by Martellus's maps. Columbus considered himself to have arrived at Champa, which figured prominently in three inscriptions on Martellus's 1491 map, and cartographers began to draw discoveries in Central America on the eastern shore of the phantom peninsula. Amerigo Vespucci also considered himself to have arrived at this peninsula rather than a new world.\n\nAnother form of this peninsula appeared in the 1502 Cantino Planisphere smuggled out of Portugal for the Duke of Ferrara. The map has lost the Great Gulf and the peninsula continues to be too large, but it has merged with the Golden Chersonese as a single landform and bent more towards the east, apparently influenced by Arabic sources.\nThe Portuguese were aware of the peninsula's likely nonexistence by shortly after the fall of Malacca, when Albuquerque acquired a large Javanese map of Southeast Asia. The original was lost aboard the \"Froll de la Mar\" shortly afterwards but a tracing by Francisco Rodrigues was sent in its place as part of a letter to the king. Nonetheless, published maps continued to include it in different forms for another century.\n\nThe southern end of the peninsula was generally known as the Cape of Cattigara.\n\nMartellus's world maps include labels marking the areas of Upper India (\"India Superior\"), Champa (\"Ciamba Provincia\"), and Greater Champa (\"Ciamba Magna Provincia\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9177450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9177450", "title": "Easting and northing", "text": "Easting and northing\n\nThe terms easting and northing are geographic Cartesian coordinates for a point. Easting refers to the eastward-measured distance (or the \"x\"-coordinate), while northing refers to the northward-measured distance (or the \"y\"-coordinate). When using common projections such as the transverse Mercator projection, these are distances projected on an imaginary surface similar to a bent sheet of paper, and are not the same as distances measured on the curved surface of the Earth.\nEasting and northing coordinates are commonly measured in metres from the axes of some horizontal datum. However, other units (e.g., survey feet) are also used. The coordinates are most commonly associated with the Universal Transverse Mercator coordinate system (UTM), which has unique zones that cover the Earth to provide detailed referencing.\n\nLocations can be found using easting/northing (or \" x\", \"y\") pairs. The pair is usually represented conventionally with easting first, northing second.\n\nFor example, the peak of Mount Assiniboine (at ) in UTM Zone 11 is represented by codice_1. Other conventions can also be used, such as a truncated grid reference, which would shorten the example coordinates to codice_2.\n\nNegative northing and easting values indicate a position due south and west of the origin, respectively.\n\nUsually associated with a map projection is a \"natural origin\", e.g., at which the ellipsoid and flat map surfaces coincide. To ensure that the northing and easting coordinates on a map are not negative, map projections may set up a \"false origin\", specified in terms of \"false northing\" and \"false easting\" values, that offset the true origin.\n\n"}
{"id": "50343393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50343393", "title": "Ecogrid", "text": "Ecogrid\n\nEcogrid is a plastic permeable paving grid known as Ecoraster to most of Europe. It has a locking mechanism that secures one grid to the next. There are many fill types for this kind of grid system but mainly they are:\n"}
{"id": "12651438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12651438", "title": "Extreme points of the Arctic", "text": "Extreme points of the Arctic\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of the Arctic, the points of Arctic lands that are farther to the north than any other location classified by continent and country, latitude and longitude, and distance to the North Pole. The list is sorted from north to south.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44184530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44184530", "title": "Gambier Islands Conservation Park", "text": "Gambier Islands Conservation Park\n\nGambier Islands Conservation Park is a protected area associated with the Gambier Islands Group which is located in the middle of the mouth of Spencer Gulf in South Australia about south east of Port Lincoln. The conservation park consists of the following islands from within the group - North Island, South West Rock and Peaked Rocks. Wedge Island is not included in the conservation park. The land which now comprises the conservation park was previously declared as Fauna Reserves in March 1967 under the \"Fauna Conservation Act 1964\" and was re-proclaimed in 1972 under the \"National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972\". The area under protection is considered significant for the following reasons: 'a group of small islands utilised by seabirds and the Australian sea lion' and the 'North Island supports a population of the southern bush rat (RATTUS FUSCIPES).' The conservation park is classified as an IUCN Category Ia protected area.\n\n"}
{"id": "3691948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3691948", "title": "Geomarketing", "text": "Geomarketing\n\nIn marketing, geomarketing (also called marketing geography) is a discipline that uses geolocation (geographic information) in the process of planning and implementation of marketing activities. It can be used in any aspect of the marketing mix – the product, price, promotion, or place (geo targeting). Market segments can also correlate with location, and this can be useful in targeted marketing.\n\nGeomarketing isapplied in the financial sector through identifying ATMs traffic generators and creating hotspots maps based on geographical parameters integrated with customer behavior.\n\nGeomarketing has a direct impact on the development of modern trade and the reorganization of retail types. Site selection becomes automated and based on scientific procedures that saves both time and money. Geomarketing uses key facts, a good base map, Whois data layers, consumer profiling, and success/fail criteria.\n\nGPS tracking and GSM localization can be used to obtain the actual position of the travelling customer.\n\nGeolocation software is used to display data that can be linked to a geographic region or area. It can be used to:\n\nSome of the software used includes Geoconcept Sales&Marketing Portal, MapInfo, ArcGIS (ESRI), RegioGraph (GfK), WIGeoWeb (WIGeoGIS) assorted open source like Mapwindow, DIVA (which while normally used for bio-diversity creates very visually pleasing density maps), GRASS (which works in Linux and Windows environments) GeoEdge (tracking local ads and pages). Several other software are available. Indeed, Google Earth provides an excellent set of images that are always useful.\n\nLocation-based social media marketing uses geo-specific tools to draw imaginary perimeters that will display all of the social content posted by users in that particular area.\nA typical example for different web content by location is the FedEx website at FedEx.com where users have the choice to select their country geo —location first and are then presented with different site or article content depending on their selection.\n\nIndividuals can deliver different content in internet marketing, through paid or organic search results, based on the geographical geolocation of the targeted audiences.\n\n\nWe can define the geo-marketing as a strategy and mechanism that provides valuable information that helps in the process of making business decisions using geographical information. The functions of this to search and evaluate marketing opportunities, analyzing geographical information such as location residential areas, topography, it also analyzes demographic information such as age, genre, annual income and lifestyle. This information can be segmented as primary data and sub-segmented as secondary data; in addition, it helps us to develop successful promotional campaigns achieving our marketing goals. This also works with retail chain stores in the sales industry, real estate, and renewable energy, among others.\n\nWith geomarketing, the general data of a company changes to be more specific regarding their customers and market trends. This allows companies to use secondary data wisely, providing excellent results at low cost compared with traditional market research methods. All data is acquired accurately with GPS equipment and geographical information software, once the data is acquired, this information is processed by professionals in the field.\n\nGeomarketing has helped companies to acquire valuable information such as transit behaviors, most visited places or areas, etc., this information will help these companies to deliver the right message (or promotion), at the right time and place. Most companies use their mobile apps to obtain this information. Mobile apps became more sophisticated using GPS, Bluetooth, and also social networks to obtain their market information, this information helps to improve their promotional campaigns. According to comScore, about 60 percent of all Internet activities in the U.S. originates from mobile devices and about half of total Internet traffic flows through mobile apps.\n\nOne example of Geo Location is Google Maps - you can search in Google Maps Restaurants near me and it will show different options around your location. One important factor that companies (in this case restaurants) is that they must be sure to optimize their business in Google's directory list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33867932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33867932", "title": "Geospatial topology", "text": "Geospatial topology\n\nGeospatial topology studies the rules concerning the relationships between the points, lines, and polygons that represent the features of a geographic region. For example, where two polygons represent adjacent counties, typical topological rules would require that the counties share a common boundary with no gaps and no overlaps. Similarly, it would be nonsense to allow two polygons representing lakes to overlap.\n\nIn \"spatial analysis\" the topological spatial relations are derived from the DE-9IM model, as spatial predicates about relations between points, lines, and/or areas: Equals, Contains, Covers, CoveredBy, Crosses, Disjoint, Intersects, Overlaps, Touches and Within. In network and graph representations the topology analysis is about topological objects such as faces, edges and nodes.\n\nThe ESRI White Paper \"GIS Topology\" explains that topology operations are used to manage shared geometry, define and enforce data integrity rules, support topological relationship queries and navigation, and build more complex shapes such as polygons, from primitive ones such as lines. A \"GIS for Educators\" worksheet at Linfiniti adds the detection and correction of digitising errors and carrying out network analysis. Topological error correction is explained in more detail in a paper by Ubeda and Egenhofer.\n\nUnlike GML, topologies are not directly represented in ESRI shapefiles which store individual geometric objects in isolation. Topological processing can, however, be undertaken in GIS software such as GRASS GIS or QGIS or could in principle be enforced using integrity constraints in a GIS-enabled DBMS such as PostGIS. However, as Riedemann (2004) explains, topological operators are inherently complex and their implementation requires care to be taken with usability and conformance to standards.\n\nOracle and PostGIS provide fundamental topological operators allowing applications to test for \"such relationships as contains, inside, covers, covered by, touch, and overlap with boundaries intersecting.\" Unlike the PostGIS documentation, the Oracle documentation draws a distinction between \"topological relationships [which] remain constant when the coordinate space is deformed, such as by twisting or stretching\" and \"relationships that are not topological [which] include length of, distance between, and area of.\" These operators are leveraged by applications to ensure that data sets are stored and processed in a topologically correct fashion.\n"}
{"id": "197049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197049", "title": "Global 200", "text": "Global 200\n\nThe Global 200 is the list of ecoregions identified by WWF, the global conservation organization, as priorities for conservation. According to WWF, an ecoregion is defined as a \"relatively large unit of land or water containing a characteristic set of natural communities that share a large majority of their species dynamics, and environmental conditions\". So, for example, based on their levels of endemism, Madagascar gets multiple listings, ancient Lake Baikal gets one, and the North American Great Lakes get none. \n\nThe WWF assigns a conservation status to each ecoregion in the Global 200: critical or endangered; vulnerable; and relatively stable or intact. Over half of the ecoregions in the Global 200 are rated endangered.\n\nThe WWF has identified 867 terrestrial ecoregions across the Earth's land surface, as well as freshwater and marine ecoregions. The goal of this classification system is to ensure that the full range of ecosystems will be represented in regional conservation and development strategies. Of these ecoregions, the WWF selected the Global 200 as the ecoregions most crucial to the conservation of global biodiversity. The Global 200 list actually contains 238 ecoregions, made up of 142 terrestrial, 53 freshwater, and 43 marine ecoregions.\n\nConservationists interested in preserving biodiversity have generally focused on the preservation of tropical moist broadleaf forests (commonly known as tropical rainforests) because it is estimated that they harbor one half of Earth's species. On the other hand, the WWF determined that a more comprehensive strategy for conserving global biodiversity should also consider the other half of species, as well as the ecosystems that support them.\n\nSeveral habitats, such as Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub biome, were determined to be more threatened than tropical rain forests, and therefore require concerted conservation action. WWF maintains that \"although conservation action typically takes place at the country level, patterns of biodiversity and ecological processes (e.g., migration) do not conform to political boundaries\", which is why ecoregion-based conservation strategies are deemed essential.\n\nHistorically, zoologists and botanists have developed various classification systems that take into account the world's plant and animal communities. Two of the worldwide classification systems most commonly used today were summarized by Miklos Udvardy in 1975.\n\nThe Earth's land surface can be divided into eight biogeographical realms (formerly called kingdoms, and which the BBC calls ecozones) that represent the major terrestrial communities of animals and plants, and are a synthesis of previous systems of floristic provinces and faunal regions. The biome system classifies the world into ecosystem types (i.e. forests, grasslands, etc.) based on climate and vegetation. Each biogeographical realm contains multiple biomes, and biomes occur across several biogeographical realms. A system of biogeographical provinces was developed to identify specific geographic areas in each biogeographical realm that were of a consistent biome type, and shared distinct plant and animal communities. The WWF system represents a further refinement of the system of biomes (which the WWF calls \"major habitat types\"), biogeographical realms, and biogeographical provinces (the WWF scheme divides most biogeographical provinces into multiple smaller ecoregions).\n\nBased on a comprehensive list of ecoregions, The Global 200 includes all major habitat types (biomes), all ecosystem types, and species from every major habitat type. It focuses on each major habitat type of every continent (such as tropical forests or coral reefs). It uses ecoregions as the unit of scale for comparison. WWF say ecoregions could be considered as conservation units at regional scale because they meet similar biological communities.\n\nSome ecoregions were selected over other ecoregions of the same major habitat type (biome) or ecozone. Selection of the Global 200 relied on extensive studies of 19 terrestrial, freshwater, and marine major habitat types. Selection of the ecoregions was based on analyses of species richness, species endemism, unique higher taxa, unusual ecological or evolutionary phenomena, and global rarity of major habitat type.\n\nGlobal 200 ecoregion list is most helpful to conservation efforts at a regional scale: local deforestation, destruction of swamp habitats, degradation of soils, etc. However, certain phenomena, such as bird or whale migration, depend on more complex parameters not used to define the current database, such as atmospheric currents and dynamic pelagic ecosystems. These would require gathering more information, and co-ordination of efforts between multiple ecoregions. However, the Global 200 ecoregions can help these efforts by identifying habitat sites and resting sites for migratory animals. It may also help identify the origin of invasive species, and offer insights for slowing down or stopping their intrusion.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWWF WWF has identified 35 global priority places around the world (terrestrial, freshwater and marine) as either being home to irreplaceable and threatened biodiversity, or representing an opportunity to conserve the largest and most intact representative of their ecosystem. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1550957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1550957", "title": "HMS Challenger (1858)", "text": "HMS Challenger (1858)\n\nHMS \"Challenger\" was a steam-assisted Royal Navy \"Pearl\"-class corvette launched on 13 February 1858 at the Woolwich Dockyard. She was the flagship of the Australia Station between 1866 and 1870.\n\nAs part of the North America and West Indies Station she took part in 1862 in operations against Mexico, including the occupation of Veracruz. Assigned as the flagship of Australia Station in 1866 and in 1868 undertook a punitive operation against some Fijian natives to avenge the murder of a missionary and some of his dependents. She left the Australian Station in late 1870.\n\nShe was picked to undertake the first global marine research expedition: the \"Challenger\" expedition.\nThe \"Challenger\" carried a complement of 243 officers, scientists and crew when she embarked on her journey.\n\nThe United States Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" was named after the ship. Her figurehead is on display in the foyer of the National Oceanography Centre, Southampton.\n\nThe \"Challenger\" Expedition was a grand tour of the world covering 68,000 nautical miles (125,936 km) organized by the Royal Society in collaboration with the University of Edinburgh. Charles Thomson was the leader of a large scientific team.\n\n\nTo enable her to probe the depths, all but two of \"Challenger's\" guns had been removed and her spars reduced to make more space available. Laboratories, extra cabins and a special dredging platform were installed. She was loaded with specimen jars, alcohol for preservation of samples, microscopes and chemical apparatus, trawls and dredges, thermometers and water sampling bottles, sounding leads and devices to collect sediment from the sea bed and great lengths of rope with which to suspend the equipment into the ocean depths. In all she was supplied with 181 miles (291km) of Italian hemp for sounding, trawling and dredging.\n\nThe \"Challenger\"s crew was the first to sound the deepest part of the ocean, thereafter named the Challenger Deep.\n\nShe was commissioned as a Coast Guard and Royal Naval Reserve training ship at Harwich in July 1876.\n\nIn 1878 \"Challenger\" went through an overhaul by the Chief Constructor at Chatham Dockyard with a view to converting the vessel into a training ship for boys of the Royal Navy. She was found suitable and it was planned to take the place of HMS \"Eurydice\" which sank off the Isle of Wight on 24 March 1878. The Admiralty did not go ahead with the conversion and she remained in reserve until 1883, when she was converted into a receiving hulk in the River Medway, where she stayed until she was sold to J B Garnham on 6 January 1921 and broken up for her copper bottom in 1921. \n\nNothing, apart from her figurehead, now remains. This is on display in the foyer of the National Oceanography Centre, Southampton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1381136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381136", "title": "Hierarchical administrative subdivision codes", "text": "Hierarchical administrative subdivision codes\n\nHierarchical administrative subdivision codes (HASC) are codes to represent names of country subdivisions, such as states, province, regions.\n\nThey are described in the book \"Administrative Subdivisions of Countries: A Comprehensive World Reference, 1900 Through 1998\", written by Gwillim Law († August 31, 2016).\n\nThe codes are alphabetic and have constant length for the first level subdivisions. Examples:\n\n"}
{"id": "18135328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18135328", "title": "Jacques Bertin", "text": "Jacques Bertin\n\nJacques Bertin (27 July 1918 – 3 May 2010) was a French cartographer and theorist, known from his book \"Semiologie Graphique\" (\"Semiology of Graphics\"), published in 1967. This monumental work, based on his experience as a cartographer and geographer, represents the first and widest intent to provide a theoretical foundation to Information Visualization.\n\nJacques Bertin was born in 1918 in Maisons-Laffitte, Yvelines. When he was 10, he received the first prize of cartography at primary school. He never had problems with drawing, and pursued interests including architecture, the teaching of drawing and cartography. Finally he ended up studying geography and cartography at the Sorbonne.\n\nHe became founder and director of the Cartographic Laboratory of the École pratique des hautes études (EPHE) in 1954 and director of studies (directeur d'études) in 1957. In 1967 he became professor of the Sorbonne, and in 1974 he became director of studies and director of the Geographical Laboratory of the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (EHESS), which is part of the École pratique des hautes études (EPHE, VIe Section). Later in the 1970s he became head of research at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique (CNRS).\n\nIn 1993 Bertin received the \"Mercator-Medaille der Deutschen Gesellschaft für Kartographie\" and in 1999 the Carl Mannerfelt Gold Medal from the International Cartographic Association.\n\nBertin died in Paris on 3 May 2010.\n\nJacques Bertin has published numerous scientific maps, papers and articles on map making, semiology, graphical information and graphic processing.\n\n"}
{"id": "24866038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24866038", "title": "John Adams (cartographer)", "text": "John Adams (cartographer)\n\nJohn Adams (born before 1670; died 1738) was an English barrister best known as a cartographer responsible for an elaborate map of England and Wales.\n\nAdams was a native of Shropshire and attended Shrewsbury School. He became a barrister of the Inner Temple.\n\nIn 1677 he engraved on copper a map of England and Wales ‘full six feet square,’ the special feature of which was that the distance of each town from its nearest neighbours was ‘entred in figures in computed and measured miles’. But the work was declared by critical friends to be very roughly done, and Adams set to work to improve it. To supply temporarily the many omissions of villages, he laboriously drew up, in 1680, the \"Index Villaris, or an Alphabetical Table of all Cities, Market-towns, Parishes, Villages, Private Seats in England and Wales\", and dedicated it to Charles II. This \"Index\" he reprinted with elaborate additions in 1690, and again in 1700.\n\nMeanwhile, under the patronage of several members of the Royal Society, he undertook a survey of the whole country, in order to make his map as full and correct as possible. He completed his journeys before 1685, and in that year published his newly revised map under the title of \"Angliæ totius tabula\". A reissue, called \"A New Map of England\", is ascribed in the British Museum Catalogue to 1693. Reduced and coloured copies of the revised map, which was of the original size (i.e. six feet square), were sold with the second and third editions of the \"Index Villaris\".\n\nAdams has been identified, on inadequate grounds, with a ‘Joannes Adamus Transylvanus,’ the author of a Latin poem describing the city of London, which was translated into English verse about 1675, and is reprinted in \"Harleian Miscellany\", x. 139–50.\n\n"}
{"id": "579480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579480", "title": "List of Czech Republic-related topics", "text": "List of Czech Republic-related topics\n\n\"The list should also contain various important Czech topics that are not yet covered.\"\n\n\"The list is divided into categories, ordered alphabetically (initially inspired by List of United Kingdom-related topics). Make new categories, rename or update them. Place the entries that don't fit or deserve its own category into the 'Miscellaneous' at the bottom of the list.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21046166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21046166", "title": "List of Fulbright Scholars from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law", "text": "List of Fulbright Scholars from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law\n\nThis is a list of Fulbright Scholars from the University of Belgrade's Law School.\n\nJunior Faculty Development Program (JFDP Scholars):\n\nRon Brown Scholars:\n"}
{"id": "56291891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56291891", "title": "List of Tasmanian courts and tribunals", "text": "List of Tasmanian courts and tribunals\n\nThe following is a list of courts and tribunals in Tasmania:\n\nThe list of sitting boards and commissions is sourced from the Service Tasmania Online portal.\n\n\n\n\nThe following are sourced from the Tasmanian Department of Justice website.\n\n"}
{"id": "10985201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10985201", "title": "List of birds of Niue", "text": "List of birds of Niue\n\nThis is a list of the bird species recorded in Niue. The avifauna of Niue include a total of twenty-nine species, of which one has been introduced by humans and nine are rare or accidental. Two species are globally threatened. There are no endemic species surviving today but there are endemic subspecies of the Polynesian triller and Polynesian starling. There are 15 breeding species of which eleven are landbirds and four are seabirds. Studies of fossil birds suggest that Niue's avifauna was formerly more diverse. Birds recorded from subfossil remains predating Polynesian settlement of the island include the Niue night heron (\"Nycticorax kalavikai\"), Tongan megapode (\"Megapodius pritchardii\") and the Niue rail (\"Gallirallus huiatua\").\n\nThis list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) follow the conventions of \"The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World\", 6th edition. The family accounts at the beginning of each heading reflect this taxonomy, as do the species counts found in each family account. Introduced and accidental species are included in the total counts for Niue. There are unconfirmed reports of the red-tailed tropicbird (\"Phaethon rubricauda\"), Pacific black duck (\"Anas superciliosa\") and sharp-tailed sandpiper (\"Calidris acuminata\") but these are not included in the list.\n\nThe following tags have been used to highlight several categories, but not all species fall into one of these categories. Those that do not are commonly occurring native species.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Procellariidae\n\nThe procellariids are the main group of medium-sized \"true petrels\", characterised by united nostrils with medium septum and a long outer functional primary.\n\n\nOrder: PhaethontiformesFamily: Phaethontidae\n\nTropicbirds are slender white birds of tropical oceans, with exceptionally long central tail feathers. Their heads and long wings have black markings.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Fregatidae\n\nFrigatebirds are large seabirds usually found over tropical oceans. They are large, black and white or completely black, with long wings and deeply forked tails. The males have coloured inflatable throat pouches. They do not swim or walk and cannot take off from a flat surface. Having the largest wingspan-to-body-weight ratio of any bird, they are essentially aerial, able to stay aloft for more than a week.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Ardeidae\n\nThe family Ardeidae contains the bitterns, herons and egrets. Herons and egrets are medium to large wading birds with long necks and legs. Bitterns tend to be shorter necked and more wary. Members of Ardeidae fly with their necks retracted, unlike other long-necked birds such as storks, ibises and spoonbills.\n\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Phasianidae\n\nThe Phasianidae are a family of terrestrial birds which consists of quails, partridges, snowcocks, francolins, spurfowls, tragopans, monals, pheasants, peafowls and jungle fowls. In general, they are plump (although they vary in size) and have broad, relatively short wings.\n\n\nOrder: GruiformesFamily: Rallidae\n\nRallidae is a large family of small to medium-sized birds which includes the rails, crakes, coots and gallinules. Typically they inhabit dense vegetation in damp environments near lakes, swamps or rivers. In general they are shy and secretive birds, making them difficult to observe. Most species have strong legs and long toes which are well adapted to soft uneven surfaces. They tend to have short, rounded wings and to be weak fliers.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Charadriidae\n\nThe family Charadriidae includes the plovers, dotterels and lapwings. They are small to medium-sized birds with compact bodies, short, thick necks and long, usually pointed, wings. They are found in open country worldwide, mostly in habitats near water.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Scolopacidae\n\nScolopacidae is a large diverse family of small to medium-sized shorebirds including the sandpipers, curlews, godwits, shanks, tattlers, woodcocks, snipes, dowitchers and phalaropes. The majority of these species eat small invertebrates picked out of the mud or soil. Variation in length of legs and bills enables multiple species to feed in the same habitat, particularly on the coast, without direct competition for food.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Laridae\n\nLaridae is a family of medium to large seabirds, the gulls, terns, and skimmers. Gulls are typically grey or white, often with black markings on the head or wings. They have stout, longish bills and webbed feet. Terns are a group of generally medium to large seabirds typically with grey or white plumage, often with black markings on the head. Most terns hunt fish by diving but some pick insects off the surface of fresh water. Terns are generally long-lived birds, with several species known to live in excess of 30 years.\n\n\nOrder: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.\n\n\nOrder: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittaculidae\n\n\nOrder: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae\n\nThe family Cuculidae includes cuckoos, roadrunners and anis. These birds are of variable size with slender bodies, long tails and strong legs. The Old World cuckoos are brood parasites.\n\n\nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Tytonidae\n\nBarn owls are medium to large owls with large heads and characteristic heart-shaped faces. They have long strong legs with powerful talons.\n\n\nOrder: ApodiformesFamily: Apodidae\n\nSwifts are small birds which spend the majority of their lives flying. These birds have very short legs and never settle voluntarily on the ground, perching instead only on vertical surfaces. Many swifts have long swept-back wings which resemble a crescent or boomerang.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Campephagidae\n\nThe cuckooshrikes are small to medium-sized passerine birds. They are predominantly greyish with white and black, although some species are brightly coloured.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Sturnidae\n\nStarlings are small to medium-sized passerine birds. Their flight is strong and direct and they are very gregarious. Their preferred habitat is fairly open country. They eat insects and fruit. Plumage is typically dark with a metallic sheen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2596128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2596128", "title": "List of extreme points of Mexico", "text": "List of extreme points of Mexico\n\nThis is a list of the extreme coordinates of Mexico, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1760214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1760214", "title": "List of natural phenomena", "text": "List of natural phenomena\n\nTypes of natural phenomena include:\n\nWeather, fog, thunder, tornadoes; biological processes, decomposition, germination; physical processes, wave propagation, erosion; tidal flow, and natural disasters such as electromagnetic pulses, volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes.\n\n\n\nGeological processes include erosion, sedimentation, and volcanic activities such as geysers and earthquakes.\n\nViolent meteorological phenomena are called storms. Regular, cyclical phenomena include seasons and atmospheric circulation. Climate change is often semi-regular.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46346088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46346088", "title": "List of people from Zürich", "text": "List of people from Zürich\n\nMany of notable people were either born or adopted in the Swiss city of Zürich.\nThe following were born or adopted in Zürich. Some became famous after they moved away.\n\n\nFamous residents:\n\n"}
{"id": "20905802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20905802", "title": "List of schools in Brussels", "text": "List of schools in Brussels\n\nAn incomplete list of schools in Brussels, Belgium.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57440731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57440731", "title": "List of statues in Baku", "text": "List of statues in Baku\n\nList of the statues and memorials in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan.\n\nList of Monuments in Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "18904930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18904930", "title": "List of the first women holders of political offices in Asia", "text": "List of the first women holders of political offices in Asia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWest Pakistan was in existence from 1955 to 1970.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTurkmen Soviet Socialist Republic (part of the Soviet Union):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18137194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18137194", "title": "Malacca Banks", "text": "Malacca Banks\n\nThe Malacca Banks are sandbanks (shoals) below the sea surface, in the Gulf of Khambhat in Gujarat, India. They lie to the west and southwest of the port of Surat and are a system of four irregular ridges running roughly from north to south parallel with the entrance channels to the Gulf. They extend from to .\n\nMalacca Bank proper refers only to the one of these banks, the second from the west. To the east of this bank is the Sutherland Channel (which is bounded on its east by the Snally Bank) and to west of the banks is the Grant Channel (which is bounded to its west by the Goapnauth Shoal). Unconnected to these is the Mal Bank which lies at the top of the Gulf of Khambhat where the Sabarmati and Mahi rivers converge.\n\n"}
{"id": "7457479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7457479", "title": "Military history of Armenia", "text": "Military history of Armenia\n\nThe early military history of Armenia is defined by the situation of the Armenian Highland between the Hellenistic states, and later the Byzantine Empire, in the west and the Persian Empire to the east. The Kingdom of Armenia had a series of repeated struggles for independence from Persia or Rome, followed by renewed conquests into either of the neighboring empires. The period after the Muslim conquests in the 7th century, up to the late 15th century, was mostly marked by domination by other empires, such as by the successive Arab Caliphates, the Seljuk Empire, the Ilkhanate, the Timurid Empire and the Ak Koyunlu and Kara Koyunlu, amongst others. Some periods of greater military independence were, intermittently, achieved under the Bagratids and, albeit located outside the Armenian Highlands, the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia.\n\nFrom the early 16th century, Eastern Armenia came under the rule of the successive dynasties of Iran, namely the Safavids, followed by the Afsharids and Qajars. In the course of the 16th century, and decisively with the Treaty of Zuhab (1639) Western Armenia came under Ottoman rule. Between the 16th century and mid 17th century, nevertheless, many of the frequent Ottoman-Persian Wars razed over both parts of Armenia as both rivals tried to expand their territories. Many Armenians fought in the Ottoman-Iranian armies for centuries.\n\nIn 1828, Qajar Iran ceded Eastern Armenia to the Russian Empire. Thus, from 1828 and on, historical Armenia was again situated between two empires, this time the Ottoman Empire vs. the Russian Empire. During the events of the Armenian Genocide, many Armenians resisted the actions of the Turkish government and took up arms. In 1991, when, following the dissolution of the USSR the Armenian Republic was founded, hostile relations with the neighboring Azerbaijan Republic and the Nagorno-Karabakh War have been marked as being the most important military matters in Armenia.\n\nAn Armenian Hellenistic state was founded in 190 BC and ruled by the Artaxiad Dynasty. At the height of its power, Greater Armenia spread over parts of what is today the Caucasus, Turkey, Syria, and Lebanon. After its expansion under the leadership of Tigranes II, it confronted the Republic of Rome. Although it briefly lost its independence, it reaffirmed itself in the region with the Arsacid Dynasty of Armenia. From then on, Romans and Persians both tried to create close relations with the Armenians. Although the Arsacid dynasty was of Iranian origin, it severed its relations with Persia when the rival Sassanid dynasty took over, and further when Armenia accepted Christianity in 301. While under Persian control, in 451, the battle of Vartanantz was fought by Armenians against the Persians in order to resist forced conversion to Zoroastrianism. Although a military defeat, the Persians afterwards allowed the Armenians to freely practice Christianity.\n\nTigranes II had massed a large army in his quest to extend the borders of Armenia.\n\nAccording to the author of \"Judith\", his army included chariots and 12,000 cavalrymen, probably indicating heavy cavalry or cataphracts, commonly used by Seleucids and Parthians. He also had 120,000 infantrymen and 12,000 mounted archers, which were also an important feature of the Parthian army. Like the Seleucids, the bulk of Tigranes' army were the foot soldiers. The Jewish historian Josephus talks of 500,000 men in total, including the camp followers. These latter were the camels, donkeys, and mules for the baggage; innumerable sheep, cattle, and goats for the food supply which was abundant for each man, and much gold and silver. As a result, the marching Armenian army was \"a huge, irregular force, too many to count, like locusts or the dust of the earth\". It was thus, not unlike the Eastern hordes. Regardless, the smaller Cappadocian, Graeco-Phoenician, and Nabatean armies were no match for the sheer number of soldiers. However, the organized Roman army with its legions posed a much greater challenge to the Armenians.\n\nNote that the numbers given by Israelite historians of the time were probably exaggerated, considering the fact that the Hasmonean Jews lost the war against Tigranes.\n\nArmenian horsemen were used by both Armenia, and also by nearby kingdoms or empires such as Pontus, Parthia, Persia, and the Roman Empire.\n\nChapot wrote:\n“What they say about Armenia bewilders us. How could this mountain people develop such a cavalry that was able to measure itself against the horsemen of the Medes? One thing which is certain is the fact that Armenia was a source of excellent well bred horses. The people in this country had discovered that horses were not just an economic asset, but could also be used for military purposes.”\n\nIn Sassanid Persia, the Armenians were accorded a status similar to the elite \"Savaran\" of the Persian army. The equipment of the Armenian cavalry was similar to that of the Savaran. Pro-Sassanian Armenian cavalry units fought under Sassanid banners and were allowed to enter the royal capital, Ctesiphon. The Armenians were in fact honoured for their services. For example, general Smbat Bagratuni was accorded particular honor and attention by Khosrow II. In 619, due to his victory over the Turks who then resided in Central Asia, he was given gifts, such as lavishly decorated robes, and the command of a number of the king's royal guards. Khosrow II also raised him to third in rank among the nobles of the court. Moreover, pro-Sassanian Armenians supplied excellent light cavalry and infantry, who were notable for using slings to repel enemy cavalry, and spears for close combat.\n\nDuring the Byzantine occupation of Western Armenia, the Armenians were considered an important element of the Byzantine army. As a result, they were encouraged to settle in distant regions of the Byzantine Empire in order to serve there. For example, in the 6th century, Emperor Maurice encouraged Armenians to settle around Pergamum in Western Anatolia. The Armenian troops became more and more important towards the 7th century; 2000 formed an armoured cavalry elite on the Danube frontier against the Avars, a nomadic people who were invading Europe. Others even defended the imperial capital of Constantinople.\n\n\"David of Sassoun\" is an Armenian national epic that developed towards the Middle Ages during the Arab occupation of Armenia. Traditional Armenian arms and armour seem to be reflected in it. In this oral tale, the warrior wears a padded helmet, a mail shirt, and a lamellar cuirass plus metal leg defenses and a large shield. His weapons include sword, spear, bow and arrows, but primary importance goes to the mace. Constant reference to such weapons being thrown by horsemen, and even of a mace pinning a rider's leg to his saddle, seem to suggest that later transmitters of this oral tale might have been confusing the mace \"gurz\" with a heavy javelin known in Iran as \"guzar\". Javelin-combat between horsemen with blunted weapons is still a popular game in Eastern Anatolia, where it is known as \"cerit\".\n\nFollowing Byzantine occupation of Western Armenia, Sassanid occupation of Eastern Armenia, and subsequent Arab conquest of the region, the Armenians reestablished their sovereignty over their ancestral lands in the form of the Bagratid Kingdom of Armenia.\n\nIn Armenia, local nakharars were able to raise 25,000 to 40,000 men, but such a levy was rare. The country was strongly fortified. It is said that seventy castles defended the province of Vaspurakan, near Lake Van. There existed a special regiment of mountaineers who were trained to roll rocks onto their foes. In siege warfare, Armenians used iron hooks to help them climb fortification walls, and large leather shields to protect them from anything that would be dropped from above. Each nakharar led a force of free men under his own coat-of-arms. Armenians were well equipped for the time, as their country was rich in iron. The Armenian army also consisted of heavy cavalry called Ayruzdi. These Ayruzdi were said to be the strongest cavalry force of the time. Levies were recruited from the commoners in Armenia. Christian Armenian levies would fight for Christianity for any of the Christian armies of the time. It is said that most of Vartan Mamikonian's army were Christian levies\n\nDuring the reign of King Ashot III, Ani became the capital of Armenia. It was a naturally protected city, built on a triangular plateau, its only vulnerable part being the north. In order to protect the future capital of Armenia and its inhabitants, the king built defenses across the narrowest point of the site. However, upon being declared capital of the kingdom, the city expanded quickly. Consequently, a line of massive double walls were built further to the north during the reign of King Smbat II. These northern walls are the most impressive part of Ani. The rest of the city was also well protected by fortifications and towers.\n\nIn the late tenth and early eleventh centuries, Armenian involvement in the Byzantine army came from three different sources: \"allied\" contingents from Bagratid Armenia, soldiers regularly recruited by the Byzantine army, as well as emigrants from Arab-controlled parts of Armenia. The fall of Bagratid Armenia and the subsequent dispersion of Armenians throughout Eastern Anatolia filled the ranks of the Byzantine army with Armenian military units or \"tagmata Armeniôn\". In this period, some dukes of Antioch, as well as those of Chaldia and Mesopotamia were thought to have such units under their command. Because of the Armenian presence in the Byzantine military in those areas, these three \"themes\" or districts were called \"armenika themata\". An Armenian contingent in the Byzantine army fought and terrorized the Arabs of Crete in 960-961 when Nicephorus Phocas invaded the island, and in 965, a contingent was sent to Cilicia as well. Under John Tzimisces, an Armenian contingent also participated in the campaigns against the Rus in 971, and under Basil II, in 986, there was an Armenian participation in the campaigns against the Bulgars. Armenian mercenaries were also present in the Byzantine capital of Constantinople, and there existed Armenian military colonies in Cyprus.\n\nWhen the Byzantine Empire took over Bagratid Armenia in 1045, and with the subsequent Seljuk conquest of the area, a large number of Armenians moved elsewhere. Most of these fleeing families settled in and around Cilicia where they established a kingdom, while some moved further south, to Egypt, and others went to the Balkans, Crimea, and Poland.\n\nAlthough most Armenians were Christians, they played a significant role in nearby Muslim nations, such as Egypt. Some Muslim Armenian mercenaries were employed by the Egyptian Tulunids towards the end of the 9th century. Armenian troops also served in Hamdanid, Mirdasid, and Fatimid forces. When Byzantium subjugated the Bagratid Armenian kingdom, many Armenians migrated to Egypt and formed a large corps of infantry archers under Muslim Armenian leadership. Eventually, Armenian troops seized control of Cairo in 1073-1074. Their leader thus took important positions in the Fatimid administration, in the context of which more Armenians were recruited in the Egyptian army. This recruitment was reduced after the Seljuk Turks and Crusaders made their arrival.\n\nArmenia was occupied by the Great Seljuk Empire until 1123, when the Kingdom of Georgia liberated christian Armenians. Armenia became part of the feudal land of Kingdom of Georgia and noble Georgian-Armenian family of Mkhergrdzeli was ruling in peace. Until 1195 when Eldiguzids invaded in the kingdom. Armenian warriors joined the feudal army of Georgia under command of David Soslan. General battle was held in 1195 near Shamkor (Battle of Shamkor). Abu-Bakr, reinforced by his client Muslim emirs, met the enemy at the well-fortified city of Shamkor on June 1, 1195. David Soslan sent a relatively small force to break through the gates of the city, while he led the main Georgian troops to raid deep in the enemy’s rear. However, poor roads and difficult landscape were setback for the Georgians, and the Atabeg defended the city for a while. Nevertheless, David Soslan’s maneuver proved to be decisive and Abu Bakr’s army was severely defeated. Shamkor was eventually captured by the Georgians who then chased the enemy’s soldiers up to the city of Ganja which in its turn fell to the victors.\n\nThe Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia was founded during the Middle Ages by Armenians fleeing from the Byzantines, and later, the Seljuk Turks. The Cilician Armenians, being Christian, were at times allied with Frankish crusaders during the First Crusade. In the context of the friendly Crusader-Armenian relations, they adopted European traditions, even in their military garments and strategies.\n\nAccording to contemporary chroniclers, there were up to 100,000 men in the Cilician Armenian army, a third of which was cavalry. At the time, Armenian heavy cavalry bore heavy resemblances to their Frankish counterparts, and the equipment used by the Armenian army was more and more akin to that used by the Europeans. The Armenians provided great help in the Crusaders' military campaigns in the Levant. In fact, the Crusaders employed Armenian siege engineers throughout their campaigns. For example, a certain specialist named \"Havedic\" (Latinized form of \"Avedis\") designed the machines used to attack Tyre in 1124.\n\nLeo II introduced important changes in Cilician Armenian military organization, which until then was similar to that the Armenian kingdoms of Greater Armenia. The \"nakharars\", Armenian feudal nobles, lost much of their old autonomy. The names and functions of regional leaders were latinized, and many facets of the army structure were inspired or copied from the Crusader states, particularly from the nearby principality of Antioch.\n\nArmenian architects favored half-round towers that protruded from a curtain wall far enough to permit archers to enfilade the enemy. Such design ideas influenced castle building in nearby Crusader states, such as the Principality of Antioch, where fortifications ranged from tiny hilltop outposts to major garrison fortresses. Antioch attracted few European settlers, and thus they relied heavily on military elites of Greek, Syrian, and Armenian origin, who probably influenced the design of local fortifications.\n\nIn 1375, the Egyptian Mamelukes took over Cilician Armenia, effectively ending Armenian sovereignty. The Ottoman Empire eventually established its rule over Cilicia with its conquest of the Mamluk Sultanate under Selim I. After successive rule of the Seljuks, Mongol Empire, Ilkhanate, the Timurids and the Ak and Kara Koyunlu, Armenia was conquered by the emerging Safavid state of king Ismail I. In 1555 with the Peace of Amasya, and decisively with the Treaty of Zuhab (1639), the Ottomans gained Western Armenia, while Eastern Armenia remained under Persian rule. Many Armenians served in the armies of both empires. Many Armenians were enlisted in the elite \"gholam\" corps of the Safavids. The Ottoman Army at its earlier stage enjoyed the service of Armenian infantry archers who relied on an old-fashioned composite bow. They wore muted colors or black as a result of the Ottoman laws which reserved brighter costume for the Turkish elite. Later on, some Armenian children were raised as Janissaries. The eastern part of the traditional Armenian lands was given to Imperial Russia by Qajar Iran in 1828 conform the Treaty of Turkmenchay.\n\nThe Armenian militia were irregular units who voluntarily left their families in order to fight and defend Armenian villages and city quarters from Ottoman aggression and massacres. There were often only a handful of \"fedayees\" during their battles against the Ottoman troops and Kurdish irregulars. Their distant goal was to gain Armenian autonomy (Armenakan) or independence (Dashnaks, Hunchaks) depending on their ideology and degree of oppression received by Armenians. Some of them also helped the Iranian revolutionaries during their revolution.\n\nThe Armenian people were subjected to a genocide by the Young Turk government during World War I. Between 1.5 million and 2 million men, women and children were killed. Armenians often resisted the actions of the Turkish government, such as during the Van Resistance.\n\nWith the establishment of the Democratic Republic of Armenia, in the Caucasus Campaign after the collapse of the Russian Empire and Army, the newly organized army fought a couple of battles against the Ottoman Empire. Victory at the Battle of Sardarapat proved that the Armenians were a capable power, but ultimately the Armenians were forced to surrender most of their land and weapons. During the same time, the Democratic Republic of Armenia also faced the Georgian-Armenian War 1918 and Armenian-Azeri war 1918.\n\nIn 1920, Armenia fought a series of battles with Turkey during the Turkish-Armenian War. After an invasion by the Soviet Red Army, Armenia was absorbed in 1921 by the Soviet Union.\n\nArmenia participated in the Second World War on the side of the Allies under the Soviet Union. Armenia was spared the devastation and destruction that wrought most of the western Soviet Union during the Great Patriotic War of World War II. The Nazis never reached the South Caucasus, which they intended to do in order to capture the oil fields in Azerbaijan. Still, Armenia played a valuable role in aiding the allies both through industry and agriculture. An estimated 300–500,000 Armenians served in the war, almost half of whom did not return. Armenia thus had one of the highest death tolls, per capita, among the other Soviet republics.\n\nOne hundred and nineteen Armenians were awarded with the rank of Hero of the Soviet Union. Many Armenians who were living in the areas occupied regions of the Soviet Union also formed partisan groups to combat the Germans. Over sixty Armenians were promoted to the rank of general, and with an additional four eventually achieving the rank of Marshal of the Soviet Union: Hovhannes Bagramyan (the first non-Slavic commander to hold the position of front commander when he was assigned to be the commander of the First Baltic Front in 1943), Admiral Ivan Isakov, Hamazasp Babadzhanian, and Sergei Khudyakov. The soviet aircraft designer Artem Mikoyan was also an Armenian. The 89th Tamanyan Division, composed of ethnic Armenians, distinguished itself during the war. It fought in the Battle of Berlin and entered Berlin.\n\nDuring the 20th century, Nagorno-Karabakh had been denied an Armenian identity by the succeeding Russian, British, and Azeri rulers.\n\nThe Armenians of Nagorno-Karabakh had accused the Soviet Azerbaijani government of conducting forced ethnic cleansing of the region. The majority Armenian population, with ideological and material support from Armenia, started a movement to transfer the territory to Armenia. The issue was at first a \"war of words\" in 1987. In a December 1991 referendum, the people of Nagorno-Karabakh approved the creation of an independent state. A Soviet proposal for enhanced autonomy for Nagorno-Karabakh within Azerbaijan satisfied neither side. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, a land war erupted between the Armenians and Azerbaijan over the disputed area.\n\nIn the post-Soviet power vacuum, military action between Azerbaijan and Armenia was heavily influenced by the Russian military. Furthermore, the Azeri military employed a large number of mercenaries from Ukraine and from Russia. As many as one thousand Afghan mujaheddin participated in the fighting. There were also fighters from Chechnya fighting on the side of Azerbaijan.\n\nBy the end of 1993, the conflict had caused thousands of casualties and created hundreds of thousands of refugees on both sides. By May 1994 the Armenians were in control of 14% of the territory of Azerbaijan. As a result, the Azerbaijanis started direct negotiations with the Karabakhi authorities. An unofficial cease-fire was reached on May 12, 1994 through Russian negotiation. But, a final resolution to the conflict has yet to be realized.\n\nVictories are in light gray, losses are in red.\n\n"}
{"id": "363867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363867", "title": "Monthon", "text": "Monthon\n\nMonthon () were administrative subdivisions of Thailand at the beginning of the 20th century. The Thai word \"monthon\" is a translation of the word \"mandala\" (\"\", literally \"circle\"), in its sense of a type of political formation. The monthon were created as a part of the \"Thesaphiban\" (, literally \"local government\") bureaucratic administrative system, introduced by Prince Damrong Rajanubhab which, together with the monthon, established step-by-step today's present provinces (\"changwat\"), districts (\"amphoe\"), and communes (\"tambon\") throughout Thailand. Each monthon was led by a royal commissioner called \"Thesaphiban\" (เทศาภิบาล), later renamed to \"Samuhathesaphiban\" (สมุหเทศาภิบาล). The system was officially adopted by the 1897 Local Administration Act, after some monthon had been established and administrative details were sorted out.\n\nBefore the \"Thesaphiban\" reforms, the country consisted of partially independent cities called \"mueang\", some directly subordinate to the capital, some subordinate to larger \"mueang\", or to one or more of the tributary kingdoms. Before the reforms, governors inherited their posts from their family lineage, and lived on taxes they collected in their area, a practice formally called tax farming. These were converted from hereditary governors to appointed governmental posts, as had been done by Chinese Yuan, Ming, and Qing-era rulers in first recognizing Tusi (tribal leaders) as imperial officials, then replacing them with imperial appointees. The arrangement resulted in governors being appointed and paid by the central government, and \"mueang\" developed into provinces. An essential step in the ending of tax farming was the creation on 3 September 1885 of the Royal Survey Department. Though its first fruits were not obtained until 1901, the department's cadastral surveys, i.e., surveys of specific land parcels, made possible the defining of ownership for land registration and equitable taxation. The term \"changwat\" (จังหวัด) for the provinces was first used in 1907 for the provinces in Monthon Pattani, and by 1916 had come into general use.\n\nIt took till around 1910 to implement the system throughout the country. The main reason for the slow implementation was the lack of suitably educated officials, but also the resistance of the traditional local leaders, which recalled the 1768–1770 resistance of the monk Chao Phra Faang to Thonburi reestablishment of Siamese authority. In 1902 along both banks of the Mekong, local revolts ( ) led by charismatic religious leaders called \"holy man\" or () broke out. The most serious of these was led by east-bank rebel Ong Keo against French authority in the former Thai tributary kingdom of Champasak. On the west bank in the area of Ubon Ratchathani, a less-well known former monk and \"phi bun\" headed a millenarian sect inspired by his apocalyptic prophecies, which spread fear, uncertainty and doubt among almost all the peoples along both banks of the river. The Bangkok government put down west bank resistance with little use of force, and cooperated with French Indochina officials insofar as limiting Thai authority to the west bank, later called Isan. East bank resistance however had no definitive end and became subsumed into the Second Indochina War. Far from the Mekong, resistance to reform continued into the 21st century in the Southern Thailand insurgency.\n\nIn 1915 there were 19 monthons containing 72 provinces. Due to economic problems, several monthon were merged in 1925. Monthon Phetchabun had been dissolved in 1915. Only 14 monthon remained: Ayutthaya, Bangkok (Krung Thep), Chanthaburi, Nakhon Chaisi, Nakhon Ratchasima, Nakhon Sawan, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Pattani, Phayap, Phitsanulok, Phuket, Prachinburi, Ratchaburi, and Udon Thani. In 1932 another four were abolished: Chanthaburi, Nakhon Chaisi, Nakhon Sawan, and Pattani. Finally in 1933 the whole monthon system was abolished by the \"Provincial Administration Act 2476 B.E./A.D. 1933\", part of the changes made after the coup d'état, which changed from an absolute to a constitutional monarchy, and the 70 provinces to second-level administrative divisions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe larger monthon Phayap, Udon Thani, and Isan had an additional administrative level between monthon and provincial administration. Three to five \"boriwen\" (บริเวณ), each administered by a commissioner (\"khaluang boriwen\", ข้าหลวงบริเวณ).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54116362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54116362", "title": "Mount Everest in 2012", "text": "Mount Everest in 2012\n\nThe Mount Everest climbing season of 2012 included several hundred summitings and the highest fatality total since 1996. 683 climbers from 34 countries attempted to climb the mountain, and 547 people summited. A record was set in May when 234 climbers summitted on a single day. There were 11 deaths, some of which were attributed to overcrowding near the peak. \n\nIn addition to an increase in mountaineers compared to previous decades, the success rate for expeditions increased. There was a 56 percent success rate in summit attempts in 2012, compared to 24 percent in 2000. 547 people reached the summit, compared to 72 in 1990 and 145 in 2000.\n\nThe difficult decisions made during the climbing season were highlighted by the departure of guiding company Himex from the mountain after concerns about a hanging serac in the Khumbu icefall. Two years later, 16 Nepalese guides were killed when ice broke from the serac and created an avalanche.\n\nIn 2012 Montana State University conducted a scientific expedition to Everest. The Everest Education Expedition studied the geology of the Everest massif which includes Everest-Nuptse-Lhotse-Khumbutse, and advanced the state of mineralogy, strain, and predicted rock ages. Of interest was the fossil-bearing limestone that crowns Mount Everest, the nature and impact of ice in the region (such as the icefall), and the overall stratigraphy (including limestone, metamorphic rocks, pelites, and quartzites).\n\nIn May, Tamae Watanabe became the oldest woman to reach the summit, at the age of 73. She broke her own record, set in 2002 at the age of 63. The retired office worker lives at the base of Mount Fuji, and had climbed many other peaks including Denali, the Eiger, and Lhotse. She climbed with a group of four, and beat a competing 72-year-old woman who was trying for the same record.\n\nThe \"Guinness Book of World Records\" states that 234 climbers summited on one day in 2012. However, it was one of the deadliest seasons since 1996, with 11 climbers dying on Everest in the spring.\n\nThe death of Canadian climber Shriya Shah-Klorfine in May made headlines and fed a debate about whether inexperienced climbers should climb Mount Everest. Issues of overcrowding and unqualified guides were also raised. Although Shah-Klorfine did manage to summit, she did not survive the descent. Questions were raised about her lack of previous mountaineering experience, as Everest was reportedly her first mountain climb. The guiding company she employed had reportedly never guided a climber to the summit before. Other factors involved overcrowding on the mountain, a late summit bid, and insufficient bottled oxygen. The company alleges that she ignored instructions to turn around and earlier recommendations to not attempt the climb due to her lack of climbing skills. \n\nFour people, including Shah-Klorfine, died on Saturday May 19, 2012. Conditions on the mountain were described as overcrowded.\n"}
{"id": "16278864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278864", "title": "Outline of Jamaica", "text": "Outline of Jamaica\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Jamaica:\n\nJamaica – sovereign island nation located on the Island of Jamaica of the Greater Antilles archipelago in the Caribbean Sea. It is long and at its widest. It lies about south of Cuba and west of the Hispaniola. Its indigenous Arawakan-speaking Taíno inhabitants named the island \"Xaymaca\", meaning the \"Land of Wood and Water\", or the \"Land of Springs\". Formerly a Spanish possession known as \"Santiago\", it later became the British West Indies Crown colony of Jamaica. It is the third most populous anglophone country in the Americas, after the United States and Canada.\n\n\nGeography of Jamaica\n\n\n\nRegions of Jamaica\n\nList of ecoregions in Jamaica\n\nAdministrative divisions of Jamaica\nAdministratively, Jamaica is divided into fourteen parishes. They are grouped into three historic counties, which have no administrative relevance (traditional capitals in parentheses):\n The parishes of Kingston and Saint Andrew together form the \"Kingston and St. Andrew Corporation\". \n\nMunicipalities of Jamaica\n\nDemographics of Jamaica\n\nPolitics of Jamaica\n\nGovernment of Jamaica\n\n\n\nJudiciary of Jamaica\n\nForeign relations of Jamaica\n\nJamaica is a member of:\n\nLaw of Jamaica\n\nMilitary of Jamaica\n\nLocal government in Jamaica\n\nHistory of Jamaica\n\nCulture of Jamaica\n\n\nSports in Jamaica\n\nEconomy of Jamaica\n\nEducation in Jamaica\n\n\nJamaica\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42757986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42757986", "title": "Robert Potter (geographer)", "text": "Robert Potter (geographer)\n\nRobert B. Potter (24 February 1950 – 12 April 2014) was a British academic geographer, focussing on urbanisation and development issues in the Caribbean. He was Emeritus Professor at the University of Reading, UK. \n\nPotter was trained in geography at the University of London in the 1970s (BSc first class, Bedford College 1971; PhD on urban retailing 1974/5). From 1974 he rose through the ranks at Royal Holloway, University of London (initially working at Bedford College, later merged), becoming Professor of Geography and then Head of Department (1994-1999). He joined the Department of Geography at the University of Reading in 2003, and later became Head of its School of Human and Environmental Sciences (2008-2012). He battled cancer from 2009, and retired in 2013.\n\nPotter was a leader in the study of urbanisation trends in developing countries, notably in the Caribbean. He worked on urbanisation, housing and planning, tourism, gender, returning migrants and human aspects of environmental hazards. A later focus was second-generation transnational migration to the Caribbean (Barbados, St Lucia, Trinidad and Tobago). \n\nLatterly he obtained a Leverhulme Trust Programme Grant, \"Water, Life and Civilisation\", based on the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), writing books and articles on water management in Jordan. \n\nHe was a consultant to the Government of Barbados and the Inter-American Development Bank for the Third National Physical Development Plan for Barbados.\n\nHe produced several textbooks on geographies of development and development studies, and founded the journal \"Progress in Development Studies\". A prolific writer he authored 30 books and 250 articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4207577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4207577", "title": "Seal Island, South Africa", "text": "Seal Island, South Africa\n\nSeal Island is a small land mass located off the northern beaches of False Bay, near Cape Town, in South Africa. The island is so named because of the great number of Cape fur seals that occupy it. It is in area and home to 64,000 cape fur seals. It is home to seabirds too and it is likely that non-marine species (in no great number) fly there to breed as well (see external link to the Avian Demographic Unit at the University of Cape Town). The island is an outcrop of the Cape granite and rises no more than about four to six metres above the high tide mark. The island is long and narrow- 800 metres by 50 metres. There is no vegetation or soil of any significance and no beach. A radar mast was built on the island during World War II by a crew who lived in prefabricated huts for the duration of the construction but this tower gradually succumbed to corrosion and was blown over in a winter storm in 1970. All that remains of it is rusty, twisted metal. There are the ruins of a few huts and other structures from the sealing and guano-collection era (first half of the 20th century). Some rock inscriptions made by sealers in the 1930s are still evident.\n\nThe dense population of seals at certain times of the year attracts the seal's main predator, the great white shark. Seal Island and the adjacent waters provide rare opportunities for those who wish to witness attacks by great whites on the Cape fur seal and to observe social interactions amongst creatures of both species. The island has become famous for the size of the sharks, and for their favoured way of catching their prey - a shark launching an attack will come up from underneath and hurl itself out of the water with the seal in its mouth. It has been shown that if the seals enter the \"Ring of Death\" (where the sharks circle the island) on the surface instead of at the murky bottom, they are more likely to be picked off by the faster and more aggressive great white.\n\n"}
{"id": "59756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59756", "title": "South Vietnam", "text": "South Vietnam\n\nSouth Vietnam, officially the Republic of Vietnam (RVN, ), was a country that existed from 1955 to 1975 and comprised the southern half of what is now the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. It received international recognition in 1949 as the \"State of Vietnam\" (a self-governing entity in the French Empire), which was a constitutional monarchy (1949–1955). This became the \"Republic of Vietnam\" in 1955. Its capital was Saigon. South Vietnam was bordered by North Vietnam to the north, Laos to the northwest, Cambodia to the southwest, Thailand across the Gulf of Thailand to the southwest, and the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei, and Indonesia across the South China Sea to the east and southeast.\n\nThe Republic of Vietnam was proclaimed on 26 October 1955, with Ngô Đình Diệm as its first president, after having briefly served as premier under Emperor Bao Dai who was exiled. Its sovereignty was recognized by the United States and 87 other nations. It had membership in several special committees of the United Nations, but its application for full membership was rejected in 1957 because of a Soviet veto (neither South nor North Vietnam were members of the UN during the Vietnam War, but the united Vietnam became a member state in 1977). South Vietnam's origins can be traced to the French colony of Cochinchina, which consisted of the southern third of Vietnam which was Cochinchina [Nam Kỳ], a subdivision of French Indochina, and the southern half of Central Vietnam or Annam [Trung Kỳ] which was a French protectorate. After the Second World War, the anti-Japanese Viet Minh guerrilla forces, led by Ho Chi Minh, proclaimed the establishment of a Democratic Republic of Vietnam in Hanoi in September 1945, issuing a Declaration of Independence modeled on the U.S. one from 1776. \n\nIn 1949, anti-communist Vietnamese politicians formed a rival government in Saigon led by former emperor Bảo Đại. Bảo Đại was deposed by Prime Minister Ngô Đình Diệm in 1955, who proclaimed himself president after a referendum. Diệm was killed in a military \"coup\" led by general Dương Văn Minh in 1963, and a series of short-lived military governments followed. General Nguyễn Văn Thiệu then led the country after a U.S.-encouraged civilian presidential election from 1967 until 1975. The beginnings of the Vietnam War occurred in 1959 with an uprising by the newly organized National Liberation Front for South Vietnam (Viet Cong), armed and supported by the northern Democratic Republic of Vietnam, with other assistance rendered by the Soviet Union and its Warsaw Pact communist satellites, along with neighboring People's Republic of China and North Korea. Larger escalation of the insurgency occurred in 1965 with the landing of United States regular forces of Marines, followed by Army units to supplement the cadre of military advisors guiding ARVN (Army of the Republic of Vietnam) southern forces. A regular bombing campaign over North Vietnam was conducted by offshore U.S. Navy airplanes, warships, and aircraft carriers joined by Air Force squadrons through 1966 and 1967. Fighting peaked up to that point during the Tet Offensive of February 1968, when there were over a million South Vietnamese soldiers and 500,000 U.S. soldiers in South Vietnam. Later on the war turned into a more conventional fight as the balance of power became equalized. An even larger, armored invasion commenced during the Easter Offensive following US ground-forces withdrawal, and had nearly overran some major northern cities until beaten back.\n\nDespite a truce agreement under the Paris Peace Accords, concluded in January 1973, after a torturous five years of on and off negotiations, nevertheless fighting continued almost immediately afterwards. The North Vietnamese regular army and Viet Cong launched a major second combined-arms invasion in 1975, termed the Spring Offensive. Communist forces overran Saigon on 30 April 1975, marking the \"de facto\" end of the South Vietnamese state, although the \"de jure\" end of South Vietnam occurred on 2 July 1976 with the reunification of Vietnam.\n\nThe official name of the South Vietnamese state was \"Việt Nam Cộng hòa\" (Republic of Vietnam) and the French name was referred to as \"République du Viêt Nam\". The North was known as the \"Democratic Republic of Vietnam\".\n\n\"Việt Nam\" () was the name adopted by Emperor Gia Long in 1804. It is a variation of \"Nam Việt\" (南越, \"Southern Việt\"), a name used in ancient times. In 1839, Emperor Minh Mạng renamed the country \"Đại Nam\" (\"Great South\"). In 1945, the nation's official name was changed back to \"Vietnam\". The name is also sometimes rendered as \"Viet Nam\" in English. The term \"South Vietnam\" became common usage in 1954, when the Geneva Conference provisionally partitioned Vietnam into communist and non-communist parts. \n\nOther names of this state were commonly used during its existence such as \"Free Vietnam\" and the \"Government of Viet Nam\" (GVN).\n\nBefore World War II, the southern third of Vietnam was the concession (nhượng địa) of Cochinchina, which was administered as part of French Indochina. A French governor-general (toàn quyền) in Hanoi administered all the five parts of Indochina (Tonkin, Annam, Cochinchina, Laos, and Cambodia.) while Cochinchina (Nam Kỳ) was under a French governor (thống đốc), but the difference from the other parts was that most indegenous intellensia and wealthy were naturalized French (Tourane of Đà Nẵng in the central third of Vietnam also enjoyed this privilege because this city was a concession too.) The northern third of Vietnam (then the colony (thuộc địa) of Tonkin (Bắc Kỳ) was under a French resident general (thống sứ). Between Tonkin in the north and Cochinchina in the south was the protectorate (xứ bảo hộ) of Annam (Trung Kỳ), under a French resident superior (khâm sứ). A Vietnamese emperor, Bảo Đại, residing in Huế, was the nominal ruler of Annam and Tonkin, which had parallel French and Vietnamese systems of administration, but his influence was less in Tonkin than in Annam. Cochinchina had been annexed by France in 1862 and even elected a deputy to the French National Assembly. It was more \"evolved\", and French interests were stronger than in other parts of Indochina, notably in the form of French-owned rubber plantations. During World War II, Indochina was administered by Vichy France and occupied by Japan. Japanese troops overthrew the French administration on 9 March 1945, Emperor Bảo Đại proclaimed Vietnam independent. When the Japanese surrendered in 1945, Emperor Bảo Đại abdicated, and Viet Minh leader Hồ Chí Minh proclaimed the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (DRV) in Hanoi and the DRV controlled almost the entire country of Vietnam. In June 1946, France declared Cochinchina a republic, separate from the northern and central parts. A victorious Chinese communist army arrived in Vietnam's northern part of parallel 17. Hồ purged non-communist politicians from the DRV. The French Indochina War began on 19 December 1946, with the French regaining control of Hanoi and many other cities.\n\nThe State of Vietnam was created through co-operation between anti-communist Vietnamese and the French government on 14 June 1949. Former emperor Bảo Đại accepted the position of chief of state (\"quốc trưởng\"). This was known as the \"Bảo Đại Solution\". The colonial struggle in Vietnam became part of the global Cold War. In 1950, China, the Soviet Union and other communist nations recognised the DRV while the United States and other non-communist states recognised the Bảo Đại government.\n\nIn July 1954, France and the Viet Minh (later the Viet Cong) agreed at the Geneva Conference that the State of Vietnam would rule the territory south of the 17th parallel, pending unification on the basis of supervised elections in 1956. At the time of the conference, it was expected that the South would continue to be a French dependency. However, South Vietnamese Premier Ngô Đình Diệm, who preferred American sponsorship to French, rejected the agreement. When Vietnam was divided, 800,000 to 1 million North Vietnamese, mainly (but not exclusively) Roman Catholics, sailed south as part of Operation Passage to Freedom due to a fear of religious persecution in the North.\n\nIn July 1955, Diệm announced in a broadcast that South Vietnam would not participate in the elections specified in the Geneva accords. As Saigon's delegation did not sign the Geneva accords, it was not bound by it. He also said the communist government in the North created conditions that made a fair election impossible in that region. This view was supported by the International Control Committee, in the circumstances prevailing in 1955 and 1956 – anarchy of the Sects and of the retiring Viet Minh in the South, the 1956 campaign of terror from Hanoi's land reform and resultant peasant uprising around Vinh in the North.\n\nDiệm held a referendum on 23 October 1955 to determine the future of the country. He asked voters to approve a republic, thus removing Bảo Đại as head of state. The poll was supervised by his younger brother, Ngô Đình Nhu. Diệm was credited with 98 percent of the votes. In many districts, there were more votes to remove Bảo Đại than there were registered voters (e.g., in Saigon, 133% of the registered population reportedly voted to remove Bảo Đại). His American advisors had recommended a more modest winning margin of \"60 to 70 percent\". Diệm, however, viewed the election as a test of authority. On 26 October 1955, Diệm declared himself the president of the newly proclaimed Republic of Vietnam. The French, who needed troops to fight in Algeria, completely withdrew from Vietnam by April 1956.\n\nDiệm attempted to stabilise South Vietnam by defending against Viet Cong activities. He launched an anti-communist denunciation campaign (To Cong) against remnants of the communist Viet Cong. He acted against criminal factions by launching military campaigns against three powerful main sects; the Cao Đài, Hòa Hảo and the Bình Xuyên organised crime syndicate whose military strength combined amounted to approximately 350,000 soldiers. \n\nThroughout this period, the level of US aid and political support increased. In spite of this, a 1961 US intelligence estimate reported that \"one-half of the entire rural region south and southwest of Saigon, as well as some areas to the north, are under considerable Communist control. Some of these areas are in effect denied to all government authority not immediately backed by substantial armed force. The Viet Cong’s strength encircles Saigon and has recently begun to move closer in the city.\" The report, later excerpted in \"The Pentagon Papers\", continued:\n\nThe Diệm government lost support among the populace, and from the Kennedy administration, due to its repression of Buddhists and military defeats by the Viet Cong. Notably, the Huế Phật Đản shootings of 8 May 1963 led to the Buddhist crisis, provoking widespread protests and civil resistance. Diệm was overthrown in a coup on 1 November 1963 with the tacit approval of the US.\n\nDiệm's removal and assassination set off a period of political instability and declining legitimacy of the Saigon government. General Dương Văn Minh became president, but he was ousted in January 1964 by General Nguyễn Khánh. Phan Khắc Sửu was named head of state, but power remained with a junta of generals led by Khánh, which soon fell to infighting. Meanwhile, the Gulf of Tonkin incident of 2 August 1964 led to a dramatic increase in direct American participation in the war, with nearly 200,000 troops deployed by the end of the year. Khánh sought to capitalize on the crisis with the Vũng Tàu Charter, a new constitution that would have curtailed civil liberties and concentrated his power, but was forced to back down in the face of widespread protests and strikes. Coup attempts followed in September and February, the latter resulting in Air Marshall Nguyễn Cao Kỳ becoming prime minister and Nguyễn Văn Thiệu becoming nominal head of state.\n\nKỳ and Thieu functioned in those roles until 1967, bringing much-desired stability to the government. They imposed censorship and suspended civil liberties, and intensified anticommunist efforts. Under pressure from the US, they held elections for president and the legislature in 1967, Thiệu being elected president with 34% of the vote in a widely criticised poll.\n\nOn 31 January 1968, the NVA and the Viet Cong broke the traditional truce accompanying the Tết (Lunar New Year) holiday. The so-called Tet Offensive failed to spark a national uprising, and was militarily disastrous. By bringing the war to South Vietnam's cities, however, and by demonstrating the continued strength of communist forces, it marked a turning point in US support for the government in South Vietnam. The new administration of Richard Nixon introduced a policy of Vietnamization to reduce US combat involvement. Thiệu used the aftermath of the Tet Offensive to sideline Kỳ, his chief rival, and ran for re-election unopposed in 1971.\n\nIn accordance with the Paris Peace Accords signed with North Vietnam on 27 January 1973, US military forces withdrew from South Vietnam. North Vietnam was allowed to continue supplying communist troops in the South, but only to the extent of replacing materials that were consumed.\n\nThe communist leaders had expected that the ceasefire terms would favour their side. But as Saigon began to roll back the Viet Cong, they found it necessary to adopt a new strategy, hammered out at a series of meetings in Hanoi in March 1973, according to the memoirs of Trần Văn Trà. As the Viet Cong's top commander, Trà participated in several of these meetings. A plan to improve logistics was prepared so that the North Vietnamese Army would be able to launch a massive invasion of the South, projected for 1976, before Saigon's army could be fully trained. A gas pipeline would be built from North Vietnam to Viet Cong headquarters in Lộc Ninh, about north of Saigon.\n\nOn 15 March 1973, US President Richard Nixon implied that the US would intervene militarily if the communist side violated the ceasefire. Public reaction was unfavorable, and on 4 June 1973 the US Senate passed the Case–Church Amendment to prohibit such intervention. The oil price shock of October 1973 caused significant damage to the South Vietnamese economy. A spokesman for Thiệu admitted in a TV interview that the government was being \"overwhelmed\" by the inflation caused by the oil shock while an American businessman living in Saigon stated after the oil shock that attempting to make money in South Vietnam was \"like making love to a corpse\". One consequence of the inflation was the South Vietnamese government had increasing difficulty in paying its soldiers. The Viet Cong resumed offensive operations and by January 1974 it had recaptured the territory that it had lost earlier. After two clashes that left 55 South Vietnamese soldiers dead, President Thieu announced on 4 January that the war had restarted and that the Paris Peace Accord was no longer in effect. There were over 25,000 South Vietnamese casualties during the ceasefire period.\n\nIn August 1974, Nixon was forced to resign as a result of the Watergate scandal and the US Congress voted to reduce assistance to South Vietnam from $1 billion a year to $700 million. By this time, the Ho Chi Minh trail, once an arduous mountain trek, had been upgraded into a drivable highway with gasoline stations.\n\nIn 1975, the communists of North Vietnam launched an offensive in the South, which became known as the Ho Chi Minh Campaign. The Army of the Republic of Vietnam unsuccessfully attempted a defence and a counterattack. It had few remaining operational tanks and artillery pieces, as well as a shortage of spare parts, and ammunition. The NVA had a vastly greater supply of new equipment and ammunition. As a consequence, South Vietnamese President Nguyễn Văn Thiệu was forced to withdraw key army units from the Central Highlands, which exacerbated an already-perilous military situation and undercut the confidence of the ARVN soldiers in their leadership.\n\nThe retreat became a rout. The cities of Huế, Da Nang and Da Lat in central Vietnam quickly fell, and the North Vietnamese advanced southwards. As the military situation deteriorated, ARVN troops started deserting.\n\nThiệu requested aid from US President Gerald Ford, but the US Senate would not release extra money to provide aid to South Vietnam, and had already passed laws to prevent further involvement in Vietnam. In desperation, Thiệu recalled Nguyễn Cao Kỳ from retirement as a military commander, but resisted calls to name his old rival prime minister.\n\nNguyễn Văn Thiệu resigned on 21 April 1975, and fled to Taiwan. He nominated his Vice President Trần Văn Hương as his successor. A last-ditch defense was made by the ARVN 18th Division at the Battle of Xuân Lộc led by Major General Lê Minh Đảo. After only one week in office, Trần Văn Hương handed over the presidency to General Dương Văn Minh (\"Big Minh\"). Minh was seen as a more conciliatory figure toward the North, and it was hoped he might be able to negotiate a more favourable settlement to end the war. The North, however, was not interested in negotiations, and its tanks rolled into Saigon largely unopposed which led to the Fall of Saigon. Acting President Minh unconditionally surrendered the capital city of Saigon and the rest of South Vietnam to North Vietnam on 30 April 1975.\n\nDuring the hours leading up to the surrender, the United States undertook a massive evacuation of its embassy in Saigon, Operation Frequent Wind. The evacuees included US government personnel as well as high-ranking members of the ARVN and other South Vietnamese who were seen as potential targets for persecution by the Communists. Many of the evacuees were taken directly by helicopter to multiple aircraft carriers waiting off the coast. An iconic image of the evacuation is the widely seen footage of empty Huey helicopters being jettisoned over the side of the carriers, to provide more room on the ship's deck for more evacuees to land. The evacuation was forced to stop by the US Navy. All the Marines and diplomats were evacuated, but thousands of South Vietnamese citizens waited in vain at the US embassy compound, and one block away at the former USAID and CIA office space in the Pittman Apartment House on 22 Gia Long Street atop the roof for helicopters that never came.\n\nThe Geneva Accords promised elections in 1956 to determine a national government for a united Vietnam. In 1957, independent observers from India, Poland, and Canada representing the International Control Commission (ICC) stated that fair, unbiased elections were not possible, reporting that neither South nor North Vietnam had honored the armistice agreement.\n\nAfter promising not to do so during the 1964 election campaign, in 1965 President Lyndon B. Johnson decided to send in much larger numbers of combat troops, and conflict steadily escalated. The NLF ceased to be an effective fighting organization after the Tet Offensive in 1968 and the war was largely taken over by regular army units of North Vietnam. Following American withdrawal from the war in 1973, the South Vietnamese government continued fighting until its unconditional surrender to the Viet Cong on 30 April 1975, the day of the surrender of Saigon. North Vietnam controlled South Vietnam under military occupation, while the Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam, which had been proclaimed in June 1969 by the NLF, became the nominal government. The North Vietnamese quickly moved to marginalise non-communist members of the PRG and integrate South Vietnam into the communist North. The unified Socialist Republic of Vietnam was declared on 2 July 1976. The Embassy of the Republic of Vietnam in Washington donated 527 reels of South Vietnamese-produced film to the Library of Congress during the embassy's closure following the Fall of Saigon, which are in the Library to this day.\n\nSouth Vietnam went through many political changes during its short life. Initially, former Emperor Bảo Đại served as Head of State. He was unpopular however, largely because monarchical leaders were considered collaborators during French rule and because he had spent his reign absent in France.\n\nIn 1955, Prime Minister Ngô Đình Diệm held a referendum to decide whether the State of Vietnam would remain a monarchy or become a republic. This referendum was blatantly rigged in favour of a republic. Not only did an implausible 98% vote in favour of deposing Bảo Đại, but over 380,000 more votes were cast than the total number of registered voters; in Saigon, for instance, Diệm was credited with 133% of the vote. Diệm proclaimed himself the president of the newly formed Republic of Vietnam. Despite successes in politics, economics and social change in the first 5 years, Diệm quickly became a dictatorial leader. With the support of the United States government and the CIA, ARVN officers led by General Dương Văn Minh staged a coup and killed him in 1963. The military held a brief interim military government until General Nguyễn Khánh deposed Minh in a January 1964 coup. Until late 1965, multiple coups and changes of government occurred, with some civilians being allowed to give a semblance of civil rule overseen by a military junta.\n\nIn 1965, the feuding civilian government voluntarily resigned and handed power back to the nation's military, in the hope this would bring stability and unity to the nation. An elected constituent assembly including presentatives of all the branches of the military decided to switch the nation's system of government to a Semi-Presidential system. There was a bicameral National Assembly consisting of a Senate and a House of Representatives, which came into being in 1967. Military rule initially failed to provide much stability however, as internal conflicts and political inexperience caused various factions of the army to launch coups and counter-coups against one another, making leadership very tumultuous. The situation within the ranks of the military stabilised in mid-1965 when the Republic of Vietnam Air Force chief Nguyễn Cao Kỳ became Prime Minister, with General Nguyễn Văn Thiệu as the figurehead chief of state. As Prime Minister, Kỳ consolidated control of the South Vietnemese government and ruled the country with an iron fist.\n\nIn June 1965, Kỳ's influence over the ruling military government was solidified when he forced civilian prime minister Phan Huy Quát from power. Often praising aspects of Western culture in public, Ky was supported by the United States and its allied nations, though doubts began to circulate among Western officials by 1966 on whether or not Ky could maintain stability in South Vietnam. A repressive leader, Ky was greatly despised by his fellow countrymen. In early 1966, protesters influenced by popular Buddhist monk Thích Trí Quang attempted an uprising in Quang's hometown of Da Nang. The uprising was unsuccessful and Ky's repressive stance towards the nation's Buddhist population continued.\n\nIn 1967, South Vietnam held its first elections under the new system. Following the elections, however, it switched back to a presidential system. The military nominated Nguyễn Văn Thiệu as their candidate, and he was elected with a plurality of the popular vote. Thieu quickly consolidated power much to the dismay of those who hoped for an era of more political openness. He was re-elected unopposed in 1971, receiving a suspiciously high 94% of the vote on an 87% turn-out. Thieu ruled until the final days of the war, resigning in April 1975. Dương Văn Minh was the nation's last president and unconditionally surrendered to the Communist forces a few days after assuming office.\n\nSouth Vietnam was formerly a member of ACCT, Asian Development Bank (ADB), World Bank (IBRD), International Development Association (IDA), International Finance Corporation (IFC), IMF, International Telecommunications Satellite Organization (Intelsat), Interpol, IOC, ITU, League of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (LORCS), UNESCO and Universal Postal Union (UPU).\n\nThe South Vietnamese government was regularly accused of holding large quantity of political prisoners, of which the exact number was a source of contention. Amnesty International, in a report in 1973, gave the estimation of number of South Vietnam's civilian prisoners ranging from 35,257 (as confirmed by Saigon) to 200,000 or more. Among them, approximately 22,000–41,000 were accounted \"communist\" political prisoners. Robert F. Turner disputed the figure of 200,000, claiming the actual number to be \"at the worst [...] a few hundred or so.\"\n\nFollowing the surrender of Saigon to North Vietnamese and Viet Cong forces on 30 April 1975, the Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam officially became the government of South Vietnam. Democratic Republic of Vietnam and Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam were merged to become the current Socialist Republic of Vietnam through the 1976 election, which was held on 25 April 1976.\n\n\nOn 26 October 1956, the military was reorganised by the administration of President Ngô Đình Diệm who established the Army of the Republic of Vietnam (ARVN, pronounced \"arvin\"). Early on, the focus of the army was combating the guerrilla fighters of the Viet Cong, or National Liberation Front, an insurgent movement supplied by North Vietnam. The United States, under President Kennedy sent advisors and a great deal of financial support to aid ARVN in combating the Viet Cong. ARVN and President Diệm began to be criticised by the foreign press when the troops were used to crush southern religious groups like the Cao Đài and Hòa Hảo as well as to raid Buddhist temples, which Diệm claimed were harbouring Communist guerrillas.\n\nIn 1963, Ngô Đình Diệm was assassinated in a coup d'état carried out by ARVN officers led by Dương Văn Minh ('Big Minh'), supported by the CIA. In the confusion that followed Big Minh took power, but was only the first in a succession of ARVN generals to assume the presidency of South Vietnam in a period of intense political instability. During these years, the United States began taking full control of the war against the NLF and the role of the ARVN became less and less significant. They were also plagued by continuing problems of severe corruption among the officer corps. Although the US was highly critical of them, the ARVN continued to be entirely US armed and funded.\n\nThe ability of the Army of the Republic of Vietnam to effectively root out the Viet Cong counterinsurgency is questionable in this period. In 1963, at the Battle of Ap Bac, some 1,400 ARVN troops alongside 10 US-piloted Piasecki H-21 and 5 US-piloted Bell UH-1 Iroquois were defeated by 350 Viet Cong guerrillas, more than 83 were KIA, 5 helicopters downed and 10 damaged. This would be pivotal as it demonstrated the ability of the Viet Cong to counter helicopter assault with concentrated small-arms, recoil-less rifle and RPG fire. The Battle of Dong Xoai in 1965 was considered another defeat, as the Viet Cong captured an area and ambushed a force deployed to recapture it before melting away when reinforcements arrived. These two tactics would form a basis for Viet Cong strategy during the America intervention. Generals had also tended to be political appointees and corruption was rampant.\n\nStarting in 1969, President Nixon started the process of so-called \"Vietnamization\", withdrawing American forces and leaving the ARVN to fight the war against the North Vietnamese. Slowly, ARVN began to expand from its counter-insurgency role to become the primary ground defense against the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese. From 1969 to 1971 there were about 22,000 ARVN combat deaths per year. Starting in 1968, South Vietnam began calling up every available man for service in the ARVN, reaching a strength of a million soldiers by 1972. In 1970 they performed well in Cambodia and were executing 3 times as many operations as they had during the American war period. However, the officer corps was still the biggest problem, and after the 1973 Paris Peace Accords, the ARVN lacked necessary military supplies and weapons as a result of a cutback of US financial aid and assistance.\n\nRelations with the public also remained poor as their only counter to Viet Cong organising was to resurrect the Strategic Hamlet Program, which many peasants resented. However, forced to carry the burden left by the Americans, the South Vietnamese army actually started to perform rather well, and in 1970 was winning the war against the Communists, though with continued American air support. The exhaustion of the North was becoming evident, and the Paris talks gave some hope of a negotiated peace, if not a victory for the North Vietnamese. Since 1973, the war shifted in favour of the Viet Cong, who were better equipped, funded and aided by their communist allies, the USSR and the China, than the South was by the Americans.\n\nThe most crucial moment of truth for the ARVN came with General Võ Nguyên Giáp's 1972 Easter Offensive, the first all-out invasion of South Vietnam by the communists. It was code-named Nguyễn Huệ after the Vietnamese emperor who defeated the Chinese in 1789. The assault combined infantry wave assaults, artillery and the first massive use of tanks by the North Vietnamese. ARVN took heavy losses, but to the surprise of many, managed to hold their ground.\nUS President Nixon dispatched more bombers to provide air support for ARVN when it seemed that South Vietnam was about to be overrun. In desperation, President Nguyễn Văn Thiệu fired the incompetent General Hoàng Xuân Lãm and replaced him with ARVN's best commander, General Ngô Quang Trưởng. He gave the order that all deserters would be executed and pulled enough forces together so that the North Vietnamese army failed to take Huế. Finally, largely as a result of US air and naval support, as well as determination by ARVN soldiers, the Easter Offensive was halted.\n\nAfter the signing of the Paris Peace Accords in 1973, all US armed forces withdrew from South Vietnam and theoretically the war officially ended, however clashes between ARVN and Viet Cong forces continued.\n\nIn 1975, the North Vietnamese again invaded the South. Lacking US air support, the ARVN could not hold them back. City after city fell to the Communists with ARVN soldiers joining the civilians trying to flee south. The North called this the \"Ho Chi Minh Campaign\". All resistance crumbled. Faced with few viable options, the South tried to form a coalition government that would be palatable to the Communists, one that favoured negotiated peace and neutrality. The new coalition government was headed by General Dương Văn Minh (Big Minh), one of the organisers of the coup in November 1963, with the full support of the CIA and President Kennedy, that killed President Ngô Đình Diệm. General Cao Văn Viên, then Colonel and Commander of the Airborne Brigade, had been captured and held by the Big Minh faction and threatened with execution unless he ordered his troops to join the coup. He refused and was held captive until the end of the coup and was released only because of his close friendship with one of the coup leaders.\n\nBecause the new coalition government would be headed by Big Minh, General Vien immediately submitted his resignation to then President of South Vietnam Trần Văn Hương, who succeeded President Thieu as President. President Huong, knowing the 1963 coup history, granted General Vien's resignation request, (Vien had submitted his resignation to President Thieu many times and had always been turned down). General Vien then escaped to the US as a civilian once his resignation was effective and formalised.\n\nThe situation in South Vietnam further deteriorated. The ARVN tried to defend Xuân Lộc, their last line of defence before Saigon. The ARVN forces were greatly outnumbered by the advancing North Vietnamese army. Xuân Lộc was taken and on 30 April 1975, initiated the Fall of Saigon. The North Vietnamese army captured the city, placing the Viet Cong flag over the Independence Palace. General Dương Văn Minh, recently appointed president by Trần Văn Hương, unconditionally surrendered the city and government bringing the Republic of Vietnam and also the Army of the Republic of Vietnam to an end.\n\nThere were four AM and one FM radio stations, all of them owned by government (VTVN), named Radio Vietnam. One of them was designated as a nationwide civilian broadcast, another was for military service and the other two stations included a French language broadcast station and foreign language station broadcasting in Chinese, English, Khmer and Thai. Radio Vietnam started its operation in 1955 under then president Ngo Dinh Diem, and ceased operation on 30 April 1975, with the broadcast of surrender by Duong Van Minh during the Fall of Saigon. The radio stations across the former South were later reused by the communist regime to broadcast their state-run radio service.\n\nTelevision was introduced to South Vietnam on 7 February 1966 with black-and-white FCC system. Covering major cities in South Vietnam, started with a one-hour broadcast per day then increased to six hours in the evening during the 1970s. There were two main channels:\n\nBoth channels used an airborne transmission relay system from airplanes flying at high altitudes, called Stratovision.\n\nWriting in \"The Christian Science Monitor\" in 1970, Dan Sutherland remarked: \"Under its new press law, South Vietnam now has one of the freest presses in Southeast Asia, and the daily paper with the biggest circulation here happens to be sharply critical of President Thieu ... since the new press law was promulgated nine months ago, the government has not been able to close down \"Tin Sang\" or any other newspaper among the more than 30 now being published in Saigon.\"\n\nSouth Vietnam's capital was Saigon which was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City on 1 May 1975 after unconditionally surrendering to the North.\n\nBefore surrendering, the South was divided into forty-four provinces (\"tỉnh\", singular and plural).\n\nThe South was divided into coastal lowlands, the mountainous Central Highlands (Cao-nguyen Trung-phan) and the Mekong Delta.\nSouth Vietnam's time zone was one hour ahead of North Vietnam, belonging to the UTC+8 time zone with the same time as the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia, Singapore, Mainland China, Taiwan and Western Australia.\n\nApart from the mainland, the Republic of Vietnam also administered parts of the Paracels and Spratly Islands. China seized control of the Paracels in 1974 after the South Vietnam navy attempted an assault on PRC-held islands.\n\nSouth Vietnam maintained a capitalist free-market economy with ties to the West. It established an airline under the Head of State Bảo Đại named Air Vietnam. The economy was greatly assisted by American aid and the presence of large numbers of Americans in the country between 1961 and 1973. Electrical production increased fourteen-fold between 1954 and 1973 while industrial output increase by an average of 6.9 percent annually. During the same period, rice output increased by 203 percent and the number of students in university increased from 2,000 to 90,000. US aid peaked at $2.3 billion in 1973, but dropped to $1.1 billion in 1974. Inflation rose to 200 percent as the country suffered economic shock due the decrease of American aid as well as the oil price shock of October 1973. The unification of Vietnam in 1976 was followed by the imposition of North Vietnam's centrally planned economy in the South. The country made no significant economic progress for the next twenty years. After the break-up of the Soviet Union and the end of Soviet aid, the leadership of Vietnam accepted the need for change. Their occupation armies were withdrawn from Laos and Cambodia. Afterward, the country introduced economic reforms that created a market economy in the mid-1990s. The government remains a collective dictatorship under the close control of the Communist Party.\n\nA 2017 study in the journal \"Diplomatic History\" found that South Vietnamese economic planners sought to model the South Vietnamese economy on Taiwan and South Korea, which were perceived as successful examples of how to modernize developing economies.\n\nIn 1970 about 90% of population was Kinh (Viet), and 10% was Hoa (Chinese), Montagnard, French, Khmer, Cham, Eurasians and others\n\nThe Vietnamese language was the primary official language and was spoken by the majority of the population. Despite the end of French colonial rule, the French language still maintained a strong presence in South Vietnam where it was used in administration, education (especially at the secondary and higher levels), trade and diplomacy. The ruling elite population of South Vietnam was known to speak French as its primary language. With US involvement in the Vietnam War, the English language was also later introduced to the armed forces and became a secondary diplomatic language. Languages spoken by minority groups included Chinese, Khmer and other languages spoken by Montagnard groups.\n\nThe religion of the majority of the population was Buddhism influenced by Confucian philosophy, which was practiced by about 80% of the population.\n\nCultural life was strongly influenced by China until French domination in the 18th century. At that time, the traditional culture began to acquire an overlay of Western characteristics. Many families had three generations living under one roof. The emerging South Vietnamese middle class and youth in the 1960s became increasingly more Westernised, and followed American cultural and social trends, especially in music, fashion and social attitudes in major cities like Saigon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52266411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52266411", "title": "Stanislas d'Escayrac de Lauture", "text": "Stanislas d'Escayrac de Lauture\n\nPierre Henri Stanislas d'Escayrac de Lauture, count then marquis of Escayrac, Commandeur of the Légion d'honneur, 19 March 1826 – 18 December 1868) was a 19th-century French explorer, geographer, diplomat and linguist.\n\nHe was born of an old aristocratic family of Quercy, of which three members took part in the Crusade of Louis IX of France. His father was marquis , Pair de France, and his mother Adèle Portal, daughter of baron Pierre-Barthélémy Portal d'Albarèdes, Minister of the Navy under Louis XVIII of France.\n\nA French traveler and explorer, he made numerous trips to Africa and the East and left some interesting works.\n\nHe entered the college of the Oratorians of Juilly at a young age. In 1856 he was called by the Viceroy of Egypt to lead an expedition to look for the sources of the Nile, Napoleon III gave him the cross of officer of the Legion of Honour to reward him for so worthily representing French science abroad. He became acquainted with Ferdinand de Lesseps, whom he met at Cairo, and became a fervent supporter of the Suez Canal. He returned to France in 1858, where he married Marie Rayer, the daughter of Dr. Pierre Rayer, ordinary physician of Napoleon III.\n\nIn 1860 to protect their commercial relations with the Far East, France and England allied themselves and dispatched their troops against the Chinese emperor. Scientists and explorers accompanied the soldiers. Count Stanislas of Escayrac of Lauture obtained his participation as chief of expedition at the Second Opium War. But while the soldiers were ransacking the summer palace, he fell into a trap on the road to Peking. Sequestered and tortured, he became the hostage of the Mandarins, the stake of a terrible arm wrestling between the Franco-British staff and the imperial government.\n\nHe returned mutilated from his captivity in China, but succeeded in dictating his 'Memoirs of China' to his brother.\n\nHe had taken as his motto in his works: \"Aperire terram gentibus\" = \"Opening the Earth to the Nations\".\n\nHe is buried with his parents in the family funerary chapel of Cemetery of Saint-Louis, Versailles.\n\n1849–1860: Research focusing on Africa\n1860–1868: Research mainly devoted to China\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40657672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40657672", "title": "Stockholm Memorandum", "text": "Stockholm Memorandum\n\nThe Stockholm Memorandum is a document signed in May 2011 by many Nobel Laureates based on the verdict from the trial of humanity, which opened the 3rd Nobel Laureate Symposium. The jury of Nobel laureates concluded that Earth has entered a new geological age, which it calls the Anthropocene, in which humans are the most significant driver of global climate change, and in which human collective actions could have abrupt and irreversible consequences for human communities and ecological systems. The memorandum was signed by 20 winner of the Nobel Prize winners or the Sveriges Riksbank Prize for Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel (six in Chemistry, five in Physics, three in Physiology or Medicine, one in Literature, one Peace Prize winner and four in Economic Sciences) was submitted to the United Nations High Level Panel on global sustainability.\n\n\"We are the first generation with the insight of the new global risks facing humanity, that people and societies are the biggest drivers of global change. The basic analysis is not in question: we cannot continue on our current path and need to take action quickly. Science can guide us in identifying the pathway to global sustainability, provided that it also engages in an open dialogue with society,\" says Professor Mario Molina, who acted as judge and received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1995.\n\nKey conclusion of the Stockholm Memorandum include:\n"}
{"id": "764882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764882", "title": "Tarim Basin", "text": "Tarim Basin\n\nThe Tarim Basin is an endorheic basin in northwest China occupying an area of about . Located in China's Xinjiang region, it is sometimes used synonymously to refer the southern half of the province, or Nanjiang (), as opposed to the northern half of the province known as Dzungaria or Beijiang. Its northern boundary is the Tian Shan mountain range and its southern boundary is the Kunlun Mountains on the edge of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. The Taklamakan Desert dominates much of the basin. The historical Uyghur name for the Tarim Basin is Altishahr (六域), which means \"six cities\" in Uyghur.\n\nXinjiang consists of two main geographically, historically, and ethnically distinct regions with different historical names, Dzungaria and the Tarim Basin (Altishahr), before Qing China unified them into one political entity called Xinjiang province in 1884. At the time of the Qing conquest in 1759, Dzungaria was inhabited by steppe dwelling, nomadic Tibetan Buddhist Dzungar people, while the Tarim Basin (Altishahr) was inhabited by sedentary, oasis dwelling, Turkic speaking Muslim farmers, now known as the Uyghur people. They were governed separately until 1884.\n\nNorth side: The Chinese called this the \"Tien Shan Nan Lu\" or Tien Shan South Road, as opposed to the \"Bei Lu\" north of the mountains. Along it runs the modern highway and railroad while the middle Tarim River is about 100 km south. Kashgar was where the caravans met before crossing the mountains. Bachu or Miralbachi; Uchturpan north of the main road; Aksu on the large Aksu River; Kucha was once an important kingdom; Luntai; Korla, now a large town; Karashar near Bosten Lake; Turpan north of the Turpan Depression and south of the Bogda Shan; Hami; then southeast to Anxi and the Gansu Corridor.\n\nCenter: Most of the basin is occupied by the Taklamakan Desert which is too dry for permanent habitation. The Yarkand, Kashgar and Aksu Rivers join to form the Tarim River which runs along the north side of the basin. Formerly it continued to Loulan, but some time after 330AD it turned southeast near Korla toward Charkilik and Loulan was abandoned. The Tarim ended at the now-dry Lop Nur which occupied a changing position east of Loulan. Eastward is the fabled Jade Gate which the Chinese considered the gateway to the Western Regions. Beyond that is Dunhuang with its ancient manuscripts and then Anxi at the west end of the Gansu Corridor.\n\nSouth side: Kashgar; Yangi Hissar, famous for its knives; Yarkand, once larger than Kashgar; Karghalik (Yecheng), with a route to India; Karakash; Khotan, the main source of Chinese jade; eastward the land becomes more desolate; Keriya (Yutian); Niya (Minfeng); Qiemo (Cherchen); Charkilik (Ruoqiang). The modern road continues east to Tibet. There is no current road east across the Kumtag Desert to Dunhuang, but caravans somehow made the crossing through the Yangguan pass south of the Jade Gate.\nRoads and passes, rivers and caravan routes: The Southern Xinjiang Railway branches from the Lanxin Railway near Turpan, follows the north side of the basin to Kashgar and curves southeast to Khotan.\n\n\"Roads:\"The main road from eastern China reaches Urumchi and continues as highway 314 along the north side to Kashgar. Highway 315 follows the south side from Kashgar to Charkilik and continues east to Tibet. There are currently four north-south roads across the desert. 218 runs from Charkilik to Korla along the former course of the Tarim forming an oval whose other end is Kashgar. The Tarim Desert Highway, a major engineering achievement, crosses the center from Niya to Luntai. The new Highway 217 follows the Khotan River from Khotan to near Aksu. A road follows the Yarkand River from Yarkand to Baqu. East of the Korla-Charkilik road travel continues to be very difficult.\n\n\"Rivers\" coming south from the Tien Shan join the Tarim, the largest being the Aksu. Rivers flowing north from the Kunlun are usually named for the town or oasis they pass through. Most dry up in the desert, only the Hotan River reaching the Tarim in good years. An exception is the Qiemo River which flowed northeast into Lop Nor. Ruins in the desert imply that these rivers were once larger.\n\n\"Caravans and passes:\" The original caravan route seems to have followed the south side. At the time of the Han Dynasty conquest it shifted to the center (Jade Gate-Loulan-Korla). When the Tarim changed course about 330AD it shifted north to Hami. A minor route went north of the Tian Shan. When there was war on the Gansu Corridor trade entered the basin near Charkilik from the Qaidam Basin. The original route to India seems to have started near Yarkand and Kargilik, but it is now replaced by the Karakoram Highway south from Kashgar. To the west of Kashgar via the Irkeshtam border crossing is the Alay Valley which was once the route to Persia. Northeast of Kashgar the Torugart pass leads to the Ferghana Valley. Near Uchturpan the Bedel Pass leads to Lake Issyk-Kul and the steppes. Somewhere near Aksu the difficult Muzart Pass led north to the Ili River basin (Kulja). Near Korla was the Iron Gate Pass and now the highway and railway north to Urumchi. From Turfan the easy Dabancheng pass leads to Urumchi. The route from Charkilik to the Qaidam Plateau was of some importance when Tibet was an empire.\n\nNorth of the Mountains is Dzungaria with its central Gurbantünggüt Desert, Urumchi the capital and the Karamay oil fields. The Kulja territory is the upper basin of the Ili River and opens out onto the Kazakh steppe with several roads eastward. The Dzungarian Gate was once a migration route and is now a road and rail crossing. Tacheng or Tarbaghatay is a road crossing and former trading post.\n\nThe Tarim Basin is the result of an amalgamation between an ancient microcontinent and the growing Eurasian continent during the Carboniferous to Permian periods. At present, deformation around the margins of the basin is resulting in the microcontinental crust being pushed under Tian Shan to the north, and Kunlun Shan to the south.\n\nA thick succession of Paleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic sedimentary rocks occupy the central parts of the basin, locally exceeding thicknesses of . The source rocks of oil and gas tend to be mostly Permian mudstones and, less often, Ordovician strata which experienced an intense and widespread early Hercynian karstification. The effect of this event are e.g. paleokarst reservoirs in the Tahe oil field. Below the level enriched with gas and oil is a complex Precambrian basement believed to be made up of the remnants of the original Tarim microplate, which accrued to the growing Eurasian continent in Carboniferous time.\n\nThe snow on K2, the second highest mountain in the world, flows into glaciers which move down the valleys to melt. The melted water forms rivers which flow down the mountains and into the Tarim Basin, never reaching the sea. Surrounded by desert, some rivers feed the oases where the water is used for irrigation while others flow to salt lakes and marshes.\nLop Nur is a marshy, saline depression at the east end of the Tarim Basin. The Tarim River ends in Lop Nur.\n\nThe Tarim Basin is believed to contain large potential reserves of petroleum and natural gas. Methane comprises over 70 percent of the natural gas reserve, with variable contents of ethane (<1% ~18%) and propane (<0.5% ~9%). China National Petroleum Corporation's comprehensive exploration of the Tarim basin between 1989 and 1995 led to the identification of 26 oil- and gas-bearing structures. These occur at deeper depths and in scattered deposits. Beijing aims to develop Xinjiang into China's new energy base for the long run, supplying one-fifth of the country's total oil supply by 2010, with an annual output of 35 million tonnes. On June 10, 2010 Baker Hughes announced an agreement to work with PetroChina Tarim Oilfield Co. to supply oilfield services, including both directional and vertical drilling systems, formation evaluation services, completion systems and artificial lift technology for wells drilled into foothills formations greater than deep with pressures greater than 20,000 psi (1379 bar) and bottomhole temperatures of approximately . Electrical submersible pumping (ESP) systems will be employed to dewater gas and condensate wells. PetroChina will fund any joint development.\n\nIn 2015, Chinese researchers published the finding of a vast, carbon-rich underground sea beneath the basin.\n\nIt is speculated that the Tarim Basin may be one of the last places in Asia to have become inhabited: It is surrounded by mountains and irrigation technologies might have been necessary.\n\nThe Northern Silk Road on one route bypassed the Tarim Basin north of the Tian Shan mountains and traversed it on three oases-dependent routes: one north of the Taklamakan Desert, one south, and a middle one connecting both through the Lop Nor region.\n\nThe earliest inhabitants of the Tarim Barin may be the Tocharians whose languages are the easternmost group of Indo-European languages. Caucasoid mummies have been found in various locations in the Tarim Basin such as Loulan, the Xiaohe Tomb complex, and Qäwrighul. These mummies have been suggested to be of Tocharian origin, and these people may have inhabited the region since at least 1800 BCE. They may be related to the \"Yuezhi\" (Chinese 月氏; Wade–Giles: Yüeh-Chih) mentioned in Chinese texts. Protected by the Taklamakan Desert from steppe nomads, elements of Tocharian culture survived until the 7th century, at the dawning of the 800s with the arriving Turkic immigrants from the collapsing Uyghur Khaganate of modern-day Mongolia began to absorb the Tocharians to form the modern-day Uyghur ethnic group.\n\nAnother people in the region besides Tocharian are the Indo-Iranian Saka people who spoke various Eastern Iranian Khotanese Scythian or Saka dialects. In the Achaemenid-era Old Persian inscriptions found at Persepolis, dated to the reign of Darius I (r. 522-486 BC), the Saka are said to have lived just beyond the borders of Sogdiana. Likewise an inscription dated to the reign of Xerxes I (r. 486-465 BC) has them coupled with the Dahae people of Central Asia. The contemporary Greek historian Herodotus noted that the Achaemenid Persians called all of the Indo-Iranian Scythian peoples as the Saka. They were known as the Sai (塞, sāi, \"sək\" in archaic Chinese) in ancient Chinese records. These records indicate that they originally inhabited Ili and Chu River valleys of modern Kazakhstan. In the Chinese \"Book of Han\", the area was called the \"land of the Sai\", i.e. the Saka. Presence of a people believed to be Saka has also been found in various location in the Tarim Basin, for example in the Keriya region at Yumulak Kum (Djoumboulak Koum, Yuansha) around 200 km east of Khotan, with a tomb dated to as early as the 7th century BC.\n\nAccording to the Sima Qian's \"Shiji\", the nomadic Indo-European Yuezhi originally lived between Tengri Tagh (Tian Shan) and Dunhuang of Gansu, China. However, the Yuezhi were assaulted and forced to flee from the Hexi Corridor of Gansu by the Mongolic forces of the Xiongnu ruler Modu Chanyu, who conquered the area in 177-176 BC (decades before the Han Chinese conquest and colonization of Gansu or the establishment of the Protectorate of the Western Regions). In turn the Yuezhi were responsible for attacking and pushing the Sai (i.e. Saka) west into Sogdiana, where in the mid 2nd century BC the latter crossed the Syr Darya into Bactria, but also into the Fergana Valley where they settled in Dayuan, southwards towards northern India, and eastward as well where they settled in some of the oasis city-states of the Tarim Basin. Whereas the Yuezhi continued westward and conquered Daxia around 177-176 BC, the Sai (i.e. Saka), including some allied Tocharian peoples, fled south to the Pamirs before heading back east to settle in Tarim Basin sites like Yanqi (焉耆, Karasahr) and Qiuci (龜茲, Kucha). The Saka are recorded as inhabiting Khotan by at least the 3rd century and also settled in nearby Shache (莎車), a town named after the Saka inhabitants (i.e. \"saγlâ\"). Although the ancient Chinese had called Khotan \"Yutian\" (于闐), it's more native Iranian names during the Han period were \"Jusadanna\" (瞿薩旦那), derived from Indo-Iranian \"Gostan\" and \"Gostana\", the names of the town and region around it, respectively.\n\nAround 200 BCE, the Yuezhi were overrun by the Xiongnu. The Xiongnu tried to invade the western region of China, but ultimately failed and lost control of the region to the Chinese. The Han Chinese wrested control of the Tarim Basin from the Xiongnu at the end of the 1st century under the leadership of General Ban Chao (32–102 CE), during the Han-Xiongnu War. The Chinese administered the Tarim Basin as the Protectorate of the Western Regions. The Tarim Basin was later under many foreign rulers, but ruled primary by Turkic, Han, Tibetan, and Mongolic peoples.\n\nThe powerful Kushans, who conquered the last vestiges of the Indo-Greek Kingdom, expanded back into the Tarim Basin in the 1st–2nd centuries CE, where they established a kingdom in Kashgar and competed for control of the area with nomads and Chinese forces. The Yuezhi or Rouzhi (, ) were an ancient people first reported in Chinese histories as nomadic pastoralists living in an arid grassland area in the western part of the modern Chinese province of Gansu, during the 1st millennium BC. After a major defeat by the Xiongnu, during the 2nd century BC, the Yuezhi split into two groups: the Greater Yuezhi (\"Dà Yuèzhī\" 大月氏) and Lesser Yuezhi (\"Xiǎo Yuèzhī\" 小月氏). They introduced the Brahmi script, the Indian Prakrit language for administration, and Buddhism, playing a central role in the Silk Road transmission of Buddhism to Eastern Asia.\n\nThree pre-Han texts mention peoples who appear to be the Yuezhi, albeit under slightly different names.\n\nAfter the Han dynasty, the Kingdoms of the Tarim Basin began to have strong cultural influences on China as a conduit between the cultures of India and Central Asia to China. Indian Buddhists had previously travelled to China during the Han dynasty, but the Buddhist monk Kumārajīva from Kucha who visited China during the Six dynasties was particularly renowned. The music and dances from Kucha were also popular in the Sui and Tang periods.\n\nDuring the Tang Dynasty, a series of military expeditions were conducted against the oasis states of the Tarim Basin, then vassals of the Western Turkic Khaganate. The campaigns against the oasis states began under Emperor Taizong with the annexation of Gaochang in 640. The nearby kingdom of Karasahr was captured by the Tang in 644 and the kingdom of Kucha was conquered in 649.\n\nThe expansion into Central Asia continued under Taizong's successor, Emperor Gaozong, who dispatched an army in 657 led by Su Dingfang against the Western Turk qaghan Ashina Helu. Ashina was defeated and the khaganate was absorbed into the Tang empire. The Tarim Basin was administered through the Anxi Protectorate and the Four Garrisons of Anxi. Tang hegemony beyond the Pamir Mountains in modern Tajikistan and Afghanistan ended with revolts by the Turks, but the Tang retained a military presence in Xinjiang. These holdings were later invaded by the Tibetan Empire to the south in 670. For the remainder of the Tang Dynasty, the Tarim Basin alternated between Tang and Tibetan rule as they competed for control of Central Asia.\n\nAs a consequence of the Han–Xiongnu War spanning from 133 BC to 89 AD, the Tarim Basin region of Xinjiang in Northwest China, including the Saka-founded oasis city-state of Khotan and Kashgar, fell under Han Chinese influence, beginning with the reign of Emperor Wu (r. 141-87 BC) of the Han Dynasty. Much like the neighboring people of the Kingdom of Khotan, people of Kashgar, the capital of the Shule Kingdom, spoke Saka, one of the Eastern Iranian languages. As noted by the Greek historian Herodotus, the contemporary Persians labelled all Scythians as the Saka. Indeed, modern scholarly consensus is that the Saka language, ancestor to the Pamir languages in northern India and Khotanese in Xinjiang, China belongs to the Scythian languages.\n\nDuring China's Tang dynasty (618-907 AD), the region once again came under Chinese suzerainty with the campaigns of conquest by Emperor Taizong of Tang (r. 626-649). From the late 8th to 9th centuries, the region changed hands between the Chinese Tang Empire and the rival Tibetan Empire. By the early 11th century the region fell to the Muslim Turkic peoples of the Kara-Khanid Khanate, which led to both the Turkification of the region as well as its conversion from Buddhism to Islam.\nSuggestive evidence of Khotan's early link to India are minted coins from Khotan dated to the 3rd century bearing dual inscriptions in Chinese and Gandhari Prakrit in the Kharosthi script. Although Prakrit was the administrative language of nearby Shanshan, 3rd-century documents from that kingdom record the title \"hinajha\" (i.e. \"generalissimo\") for the king of Khotan, Vij'ida-simha, a distinctively Iranian-based word equivalent to the Sanskrit title \"senapati\", yet nearly identical to the Khotanese Saka \"hīnāysa\" attested in contemporary documents. This along with the fact that the king's recorded regnal periods were given in Khotanese as \"kṣuṇa\", \"implies an established connection between the Iranian inhabitants and the royal power,\" according to the late Professor of Iranian Studies Ronald E. Emmerick (d. 2001). He contended that Khotanese-Saka-language royal rescripts of Khotan dated to the 10th century \"makes it likely that the ruler of Khotan was a speaker of Iranian.\" Furthermore, he elaborated on the early name of Khotan:\nIn Northwest China, Khotanese-Saka-language documents, ranging from medical texts to Buddhist literature, have been found primarily in Khotan and Tumshuq (northeast of Kashgar). They largely predate the arrival of Islam to the region under the Turkic Kara-Khanids. Similar documents in the Khotanese-Saka language were found in Dunhuang dating mostly to the 10th century.\n\nThe collapse of the Uyghur Khaganate in 840 AD led to the movement of the Uyghurs south to Turpan and Gansu, and some absorbed by the Karluks. The Uyghurs of Turfan (or Qocho) became Buddhists. In the tenth century, the Karluks, Yagmas, Chigils and other Turkic tribes founded the Kara-Khanid Khanate in Semirechye, Western Tian Shan, and Kashgaria.\n\nThe Karakhanids became the first Islamic Turkic dynasty in the tenth century when Sultan Satuq Bughra Khan converted to Islam in 966 and controlled Kashgar. Satuq Bughra Khan and his son directed endeavors to preach Islam among the Turks and engage in conquests. Satok Bughra Khan's nephew or grandson Ali Arslan was slain by the Buddhists during the war. Buddhism lost territory to the Turkic Karakhanid Satok Bughra Khan during the Karakhanid reign around the Kashgar area. The Tarim Basin became Islamicized over the next few centuries.\n\nIn the tenth century, the Buddhist Iranic Saka Kingdom of Khotan was the only city-state that was not conquered yet by the Turkic Uyghur (Buddhist) and the Turkic Qarakhanid (Muslim) states. The Buddhist entitites of Dunhuang and Khotan had a tight-knit partnership, with intermarriage between Dunhuang and Khotan's rulers and Dunhuang's Mogao grottos and Buddhist temples being funded and sponsored by the Khotan royals, whose likenesses were drawn in the Mogao grottoes. Halfway in the 10th century Khotan came under attack by the Qarakhanid ruler Musa, a long war ensued between the Turkic Karakhanid and Buddhist Khotan which eventually ended in the conquest of Khotan by Kashgar by the Karakhanid leader Yusuf Qadir Khan around 1006.\n\nAccounts of the Muslim Karakhanid war against the Khotanese Buddhists are given in \" Taẕkirah of the Four Sacrificed Imams\" written sometime in the period from 1700-1849 which told the story of four imams from Mada'in city (possibly in modern-day Iraq) who travelled to help the Islamic conquest of Khotan, Yarkand, and Kashgar by Yusuf Qadir Khan, the Qarakhanid leader. The \"infidels\" were defeated and driven towards Khotan by Yusuf Qadir Khan and the four Imams, but the Imams were assassinated by the Buddhists prior to the last Muslim victory. After Yusuf Qadir Khan's conquest of new land in Altishahr towards the east, he adopted the title \"King of the East and China\".\n\nIn 1006, the Muslim Kara-Khanid ruler Yusuf Kadir (Qadir) Khan of Kashgar conquered Khotan, ending Khotan's existence as an independent state. The Islamic conquest of Khotan led to alarm in the east and Dunhuang's Cave 17, which contained Khotanese literary works, was closed shut possibly after its caretakers heard that Khotan's Buddhist buildings were razed by the Muslims, the Buddhist religion had suddenly ceased to exist in Khotan. The Karakhanid Turkic Muslim writer Mahmud al-Kashgari recorded a short Turkic language poem about the conquest:\n\nEnglish translation:\n\nWe came down on them like a flood,<br>\nWe went out among their cities,<br>\nWe tore down the idol-temples,<br>\nWe shat on the Buddha's head!<br>\nIn Turkic:\nkälginläyü aqtïmïz<br>\nkändlär üzä čïqtïmïz<br>\nfurxan ävin yïqtïmïz<br>\nburxan üzä sïčtïmïz<br>\nThe Buddhist Uyghurs of the Kingdom of Qocho and Turfan embraced Islam after conversion at the hands of the Muslim Chagatai Khizr Khwaja.\n\nKara Del was a Mongolian ruled and Uighur populated Buddhist Kingdom. The Muslim Chagatai Khan Mansur invaded and used the sword to make the population convert to Islam.\n\nAfter being converted to Islam, the descendants of the previously Buddhist Uyghurs in Turfan believed that the \"infidel Kalmuks\" (Dzungars) were the ones who built Buddhist monuments in their area, in opposition to the current academic theory that it was their own ancestral legacy.\n\nXinjiang did not exist as one unit until 1884 under Qing rule. It consisted of the two separate political entities of Dzungaria and the Tarim Basin (Eastern Turkestan). Dzungharia or Ili was called Zhunbu 準部 (Dzungar region) Tianshan Beilu 天山北路 (Northern March), \"Xinjiang\" 新疆 (New Frontier), or \"Kalmykia\" (La Kalmouquie in French). It was formerly the area of the Dzungar (or Zunghar) Khanate 準噶爾汗國, the land of the Dzungar people. The Tarim Basin was known as \"Tianshan Nanlu 天山南路 (southern March), Huibu 回部 (Muslim region), Huijiang 回疆 (Muslim frontier), Chinese Turkestan, Kashgaria, Little Bukharia, East Turkestan\", and the traditional Uyghur name for it was Altishahr (). It was formerly the area of the Eastern Chagatai Khanate 東察合台汗國, land of the Uyghur people before being conquered by the Dzungars.\n\nAccording to census figures, the Tarim Basin is dominated by the Uyghurs. They form the majority population in cities such as Kashgar, Artush, and Hotan. There are however large pockets of Han Chinese in the region, such as Aksu and Korla. There are also smaller numbers of Hui and other ethnic groups, for example, the Tajiks who are concentrated at Tashkurgan in the Kashgar Prefecture, the Kyrgyz in Kizilsu, and the Mongols in Bayingolin.\n\nThe discovery of the Tarim mummies showed that the early people of the Tarim Basin were Europoids. According to Sinologist Victor H. Mair: \"From around 1800BC, the earliest mummies in the Tarim Basin were exclusively Caucasoid, or Europoid.\" He also said that East Asian migrants arriving in the eastern portions of the Tarim Basin around 3,000 years ago, and the Uyghur peoples \"arrived after the collapse of the Orkon Uighur Kingdom, based in modern-day Mongolia, around the year 842.\" He also noted that the people of Xinjiang are a mixture: \"Modern DNA and ancient DNA show that Uighurs, Kazakhs, Kyrgyzs, the peoples of central Asia are all mixed Caucasian and East Asian. The modern and ancient DNA tell the same story.\" Professor James A. Millward described the original Uyghurs as physically Mongoloid, giving as an example the images in Bezeklik at Temple 9 of the Uyghur patrons, until they began to mix with the Tarim Basin's original eastern Iranian inhabitants.\n\nThe modern Uyghurs are now a mixed hybrid of East Asians and Europoids.\n\nAlthough archaeological findings are of interest in the Tarim Basin, the prime impetus for exploration was petroleum and natural gas. Recent research with help of GIS database have provided a fine-grained analysis of the ancient oasis of Niya on the Silk Road. This research led to significant findings; remains of hamlets with wattle and daub structures as well as farm land, orchards, vineyards, irrigation pools and bridges. The oasis at Niya preserves the ancient landscape. Here also have been found hundreds of 3rd and 4th century wooden accounting tablets at several settlements across the oasis. These texts are in the Kharosthi script native to today's Pakistan and Afghanistan. The texts are legal documents such as tax lists, and contracts containing detailed information pertaining to the administration of daily affairs.\nAdditional excavations have unearthed tombs with mummies, tools, ceramic works, painted pottery and other artistic artifacts. Such diversity was encouraged by the cultural contacts resulting from this area's position on the Silk Road. Early Buddhist sculptures and murals excavated at Miran show artistic similarities to the traditions of Central Asia and North India and stylistic aspects of paintings found there suggest that Miran had a direct connection with the West, specifically Rome and its provinces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15293121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15293121", "title": "Taxi positional awareness", "text": "Taxi positional awareness\n\nTaxi positional awareness (abbreviated TPA) is an electronic map used by aircraft whilst taxiing. An example is the Electronic flight bag (EFB) produced by Boeing and Jeppesen.\n"}
{"id": "865641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=865641", "title": "Telematics", "text": "Telematics\n\nTelematics is an interdisciplinary field that encompasses telecommunications, vehicular technologies, road transportation, road safety, electrical engineering (sensors, instrumentation, wireless communications, etc.), and computer science (multimedia, Internet, etc.). Telematics can involve any of the following:\n\n\nIn contrast, telemetry involves the transmission of measurements from the location of origin to the location of computing and consumption, especially without affecting control on the remote objects. Though typically applied in the testing of flight objects, telemetry has multiple other uses.\n\nTelematics is a translation of the French word \"télématique\" which was first coined by Simon Nora and Alain Minc in a 1978 report to the French government on the computerization of society. It referred to the transfer of information over telecommunications and was a merging of the French words \"télécommunications\" (\"telecommunications\") and \"informatique\" (\"computing science\"). The original broad meaning of telematics continues to be used in academic fields but in commerce it now generally means vehicle telematics.\n\nTelematics — \n\nVehicle telematics can help improve the efficiency of an organization. Practical applications include:\n\nVehicle tracking is monitoring the location, movements, status and behaviour of a vehicle or fleet of vehicles. This is achieved through a combination of a GPS (GNSS) receiver and an electronic device (usually comprising a GSM GPRS modem or SMS sender) installed in each vehicle, communicating with the user (dispatching, emergency or co-ordinating unit) and PC-based or web-based software. The data is turned into information by management reporting tools in conjunction with a visual display on computerised mapping software. Vehicle tracking systems may also use odometry or dead reckoning as an alternative or complementary means of navigation.\n\nGPS tracking is usually accurate to around 10–20 metres, but the European Space Agency has developed the EGNOS technology to provide accuracy to 1.5 metres.\n\nTrailer tracking is tracking the movements and position of an articulated vehicle's trailer unit, through the use of a location unit fitted to the trailer and a method of returning the position data via mobile communication network or geostationary satellite communications, for use through either PC- or web-based software.\n\nCold-store freight trailers that deliver fresh or frozen foods are increasingly incorporating telematics to gather time-series data on the temperature inside the cargo container, both to trigger alarms and record an audit trail for business purposes. An increasingly sophisticated array of sensors, many incorporating RFID technology, is being used to ensure the cold chain.\n\nFreight containers can be tracked by GPS using a similar approach to that used for trailer tracking i.e. a battery-powered GPS device communicating its position via mobile phone or satellite communications. Benefits of this approach include increased security and the possibility to reschedule the container transport movements based on accurate information about its location. According to Berg Insight the installed base of tracking units in the intermodal shipping container segment reached 190,000 at the end of 2013. Growing at a compound annual growth rate of 38.2 percent, the installed base will reach 960,000 units at the end of 2018.\n\nFleet management is the management of a company's fleet.\nFleet management includes the management of ships and or motor vehicles such as cars, vans and trucks. Fleet (vehicle) Management can include a range of functions, such as vehicle financing, vehicle maintenance, vehicle telematics (tracking and diagnostics), driver management, fuel management, health and safety management and dynamic vehicle scheduling. Fleet Management is a function which allows companies which rely on transportation in their business to remove or minimize the risks associated with vehicle investment, improving efficiency, productivity and reducing their overall transportation costs, providing 100% compliance with government legislation and Duty of Care obligations. These functions can either be dealt with by an in-house Fleet Management department or an outsourced Fleet Management provider.\n\nThe Association of Equipment Management Professionals (AEMP) developed the industry's first telematics standard.\nIn 2008, AEMP brought together the major construction equipment manufacturers and telematics providers in the heavy equipment industry to discuss the development of the industry's first telematics standard. Following agreement from Caterpillar, Volvo CE, Komatsu, and John Deere Construction & Forestry to support such a standard, the AEMP formed a standards development subcommittee, chaired by Pat Crail CEM, to develop the standard. This committee consisted of developers provided by the Caterpillar/Trimble joint venture known as Virtual Site Solutions, Volvo CE, and John Deere. This group worked from February 2009 through September 2010 to develop the industry's first standard for the delivery of telematics data. \nThe result, the AEMP Telematics Data Standard V1.1 was released in 2010 and officially went live on October 1, 2010. As of November 1, 2010, Caterpillar, Volvo CE, John Deere Construction & Forestry, OEM Data Delivery, and Navman Wireless are able to support customers with delivery of basic telematics data in a standard xml format. Komatsu, Topcon, and others are finishing beta testing and have indicated that they will be able to support customers before the end of 2010.\n\nThe AEMP's telematics data standard was developed to allow end users to integrate key telematics data (operating hours, location, fuel consumed, and odometer reading where applicable) into their existing fleet management reporting systems. As such, the standard was primarily intended to facilitate importation of these data elements into enterprise software systems such as those used by many medium to large construction contractors. Prior to the standard, end users had few options for integrating this data into their reporting systems in a mixed-fleet environment consisting of multiple brands of machines and a mix of telematics-equipped machines and legacy machines (those without telematics devices where operating data is still reported manually via pen and paper). One option available to machine owners was to visit multiple websites to manually retrieve data from each manufacturer's telematics interface and then manually enter it into their fleet management program's database. This option was cumbersome and labor-intensive.\n\nA second option was for the end user to develop an API (Application Programming Interface), or program, to integrate the data from each telematics provider into his or her database. This option was quite costly, as each telematics provider had a different procedure for accessing and retrieving the data and the data format varied from provider to provider. This option automated the process, but because each provider required a unique, custom API to retrieve and parse the data, it was an expensive option. In addition, another API had to be developed any time another brand of machine or telematics device was added to the fleet.\n\nA third option for mixed-fleet integration was to replace the various factory-installed telematics devices with devices from a third party telematics provider. Although this solved the problem of having multiple data providers requiring unique integration methods, this was by far the most expensive option. In addition to the expense, many of the third-party devices available for construction equipment are unable to access data directly from the machine's electronic control modules (ECMs), or computers, and as such are more limited than the device installed by the OEM (Cat, Volvo, Deere, Komatsu, etc.) in the data they are able to provide. In some cases, these devices are limited to location and engine run time, although they are increasingly able to accommodate a number of add-on sensors to provide additional data.\n\nThe AEMP Telematics Data Standard provides a fourth option. By concentrating on the key data elements that drive the majority of fleet management reports (hours, miles, location, fuel consumption), making those data elements available in a standardized xml format, and standardizing the means by which the document is retrieved, the standard allows the end user to use one API to retrieve data from any participating telematics provider. Because one API can retrieve data from any participating telematics provider, as opposed to the unique API for each provider that was required previously, integration development costs are greatly reduced.\n\nThe current draft version of the AEMP Telematics Data Standard is now called the AEM/AEMP Draft Telematics API Standard which expands the original standard, Version 1.2 to include 19 data fields (with fault code capability). This new draft standard is a collaborative effort of AEMP and the Association of Equipment Manufacturers (AEM), working on behalf of their members and the industry. This Draft API replaces the current version 1.2. The Draft API does not currently cover some types of equipment, e.g., agriculture equipment, cranes, mobile elevating work platforms, air compressors and other niche products.\n\nIn addition to the new data fields, the AEM/AEMP Draft Telematics API (Application Programming Interface) Standard also changes how the data is accessed in an effort to make it easier to consume and integrate with other systems and processes. It includes standardized communication protocols for the ability to transfer telematics information in mixed equipment fleets to end user business enterprise systems, enabling the end user to employ their own business software to collect and then analyze asset data from mixed equipment fleets without the need to work across multiple telematics provider applications.\n\nTo achieve a globally recognized standard for conformity worldwide, the AEM/AEMP Draft Telematics API Standard will be submitted for acceptance by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Final language is dependent upon completion of the ISO acceptance process.\n\nSatellite navigation in the context of vehicle telematics is the technology of using a GPS and electronic mapping tool to enable the driver of a vehicle to locate a position, plan a route and navigate a journey.\n\nMobile data is the use of wireless data communications using radio waves to send and receive real time computer data to, from and between devices used by field based personnel. These devices can be fitted solely for use while in the vehicle (Fixed Data Terminal) or for use in and out of the vehicle (Mobile Data Terminal). See mobile Internet.\n\nThe common methods for mobile data communication for telematics was based on private vendors RF communication infrastructure. During the early 2000, manufacturers of mobile data terminals/AVL devices, moved to try cellular data communication in order to offer cheaper ways to transmit telematics information and wider range based on the country full coverage of cellular providers. Ever since then, thanks to the cellular providers that offered low GPRS (2.5G) and later UMTS (3G) rates, mobile data is almost totally offered to telematics customers by cellular communication.\n\nWireless vehicle safety communications telematics aid in car safety and road safety. It is an electronic sub-system in a car or other vehicle for the purpose of exchanging safety information, about such things as road hazards and the locations and speeds of vehicles, over short range radio links. This may involve temporary ad hoc wireless local area networks.\n\nWireless units will be installed in vehicles and probably also in fixed locations such as near traffic signals and emergency call boxes along the road. Sensors in the cars and at the fixed locations, as well as possible connections to wider networks, will provide the information, which will be displayed to the drivers in some way. The range of the radio links can be extended by forwarding messages along multi-hop paths. Even without fixed units, information about fixed hazards can be maintained by moving vehicles by passing it backwards. It also seems possible for traffic lights, which one can expect to become smarter, to use this information to reduce the chance of collisions.\n\nFurther in the future, it may connect directly to the adaptive cruise control or other vehicle control aids. Cars and trucks with the wireless system connected to their brakes may move in convoys, to save fuel and space on the roads. When any column member slows down, all those behind it will automatically slow also. There are also possibilities that need less engineering effort. A radio beacon could be connected to the brake light, for example.\n\nNetwork ideas were scheduled for test in fall 2008, in Europe where radio frequency bandwidth has been allocated. The 30 MHz allocated is at 5.9 GHz, and unallocated bandwidth at 5.4 GHz may also be used. The standard is IEEE 802.11p, a low-latency form of the Wi-Fi local area network standard. Similar efforts are underway in Japan and the USA.\n\nTelematics technologies are self-orientating open network architecture structures of variable programmable intelligent beacons developed for application in the development of intelligent vehicles, with the intent to accord (blend, or mesh) warning information with surrounding vehicles in the vicinity of travel, intra-vehicle, and infrastructure. Emergency warning systems for vehicles telematics are developed particularly for international harmonisation and standardisation of vehicle-to-vehicle, infrastructure-to-vehicle, and vehicle-to-infrastructure real-time Dedicated Short Range Communication (DSRC) systems.\n\nTelematics most commonly relate to computerised systems that update information at the same rate as they receive data, enabling them to direct or control a process such as an instantaneous autonomous warning notification in a remote machine or group of machines. By use of telematics as applied to intelligent vehicle technologies, instantaneous direction travel cognizance of a vehicle may be transmitted in real-time to surrounding vehicles traveling in the local area of vehicles equipped (with EWSV) to receive said warning signals of danger.\n\nTelematics comprise electronic, electromechanical, and electromagnetic devices — usually silicon micromachined components operating in conjunction with computer controlled devices and radio transceivers to provide precision repeatability functions (such as in robotics artificial intelligence systems) emergency warning validation performance reconstruction.\n\nIntelligent vehicle technologies commonly apply to car safety systems and self-contained autonomous electromechanical sensors generating warnings that can be transmitted within a specified targeted area of interest, say within 100 meters of the emergency warning system for vehicles transceiver. In ground applications, intelligent vehicle technologies are utilized for safety and commercial communications between vehicles or between a vehicle and a sensor along the road.\n\nOn November 3, 2009 the most advanced Intelligent Vehicle concept car was demonstrated in New York City. A 2010 Toyota Prius became the first LTE Connected Car. The demonstration was provided by the NG Connect project, a collaboration of automotive telematic technologies designed to exploit in-car 4G wireless network connectivity.\n\nTelematics technology has allowed carsharing services to emerge, such as Local Motion, Car2Go, Zipcar worldwide or City Car Club in the UK. Telematics-enabled computers allow organizers to track members' usage and bill them on a pay-as-you-drive basis. Some systems show users where to find an idle vehicle. Car Clubs such as Australia's Charter Drive use telematics to monitor and report on vehicle use within pre-defined geofence areas, in order to demonstrate the reach of their transit media car club fleet.\n\nThe basic idea of telematics auto insurance is that a driver's behavior is monitored directly while the person drives and this information is transmitted to an insurance company. The insurance company then assesses the risk of that driver having an accident and charges insurance premiums accordingly. A driver who drives less responsibly, will be charged a higher premium than a driver who drives smoothly and with less calculated risk of claim propensity. Other benefits can be delivered to end users with Telematics2.0 based telematics as customer engagement can be enhanced with direct customer interaction.\n\nTelematics auto insurance was independently invented and patented by a major U.S. auto insurance company, Progressive Auto Insurance and a Spanish independent inventor, Salvador Minguijon Perez (European Patent EP0700009B1). The Perez patents cover monitoring the car's engine control computer to determine distance driven, speed, time of day, braking force, etc. Ironically, Progressive is developing the Perez technology in the US and European auto insurer Norwich Union is developing the Progressive technology for Europe. Both patents have now since been overturned in courts due to prior work in the commercial insurance sectors.\n\nAccording to ABI Research global insurance telematics subscriptions could exceed 107 million in 2018, up from 5.5 million at the end of 2013. \nPTOLEMUS estimates UBI will represent more than 100 million telematics policies generating in excess of €50 billion in premiums globally by 2020.\n\nTrials conducted by Norwich Union in 2005 have found that young drivers (18- to 23-year-olds) signing up for telematics auto insurance have had a 20% lower accident rate than average.\n\nTheoretical economic research in 2007 on the social welfare effects of Progressive's telematics technology business process patents have questioned whether the business process patents are pareto efficient for society. Preliminary results suggest that it is not, but more work is needed. The progressive patents have been overturned in the US Legal system Apr 2014 on grounds of lack of originality.\n\nThe smartphone as the in-vehicle device for insurance telematics has been discussed in great detail \n\n\n\nSeveral universities provide two year Telematics Master of Science programmes:\n\nIn 2007 a project entitled the European Automotive Digital Innovation Studio (EADIS) was awarded 400,000 Euros from the European commission under its Leonardo da Vinci programme. EADIS used a virtual work environment called the Digital Innovation Studio to train and develop professional designers in the automotive industry in the impact and application of ‘vehicle telematics’ so that they could integrate new technologies into future products within the automotive industry. Funding ended in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18528611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18528611", "title": "Telephone numbers in Madagascar", "text": "Telephone numbers in Madagascar\n\nTelephone numbers in Madagascar are seven digits long, the first two digits being an area code.\n\nRecent ITU documents suggest the area code is preceded by a two digit operator code, for example \"20\" for Telecom Malagasy.\nInternational numbering format: +261 AB Z PQMCDU\n\nwhere:\n\nAt national level, a closed numbering system of seven digits is used. That is, all subscriber numbers requested to the same operator Telecom Malagasy (local and national) can be obtained by dialling seven digits (ZPQMCDU).\n"}
{"id": "953291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=953291", "title": "USS Whale (SSN-638)", "text": "USS Whale (SSN-638)\n\nUSS \"Whale\" (SSN-638) was a nuclear-powered attack submarine of the United States Navy. She was the second ship of that name, after the whale family of aquatic mammals.\n\n\"Whale\"s keel was laid down on 27 May 1964 at the General Dynamics Quincy Shipbuilding Division shipyard in Quincy, Massachusetts. She was launched on 14 October 1966, sponsored by Mrs. Russell B. Long, the wife of United States Senator Russell B. Long (1918–2003) of Louisiana, and commissioned on 12 October 1968, with Commander William M. Wolff, Jr. in command.\n\n\"Whale\" arrived in her first home port, Charleston, South Carolina, on 2 November 1968 and, after a week in port, put to sea on 9 November 1968 for shakedown training, which she completed in November and December 1968 along with a series of post-commissioning tests, trials, and qualifications. In January 1969, she began normal operations out of Charleston with attack submarine training along the southeastern coast of the United States.\n\nOn 18 March 1969, \"Whale\" stood out of Charleston on her way north to operations above the Arctic Circle. She reached the North Pole on 6 April 1969 and surfaced there in commemoration of the 60th anniversary of Rear Admiral Robert E. Peary's 1909 arrival there. Following that event, she completed her mission under the polar ice cap and then headed south. After a visit to Faslane, Scotland, she voyaged home to Charleston, where she arrived on 9 May 1969.\n\nFollowing two months of local operations out of Charleston, \"Whale\" sailed for Groton, Connecticut, and her post-shakedown repair period. After three months in the shipyard of the Electric Boat Division of the General Dynamics Corporation at Groton, she started back to Charleston on 16 October 1969. She arrived at Charleston on 20 October and conducted local operations for the remainder of 1969.\n\nDuring the first half of 1970, \"Whale\" continued operations out of Charleston. In late January, she participated in tests with a Navy Underwater Demolition Team and, in February and March, took part in three major fleet exercises. In April, she headed north for a brief tour of duty as training ship for the Prospective Commanding Officers' School at New London, Connecticut. She returned to Charleston at the end of the first week in May and spent the remainder of the month conducting acoustic trials.\n\n\"Whale\" departed Charleston on 27 July 1970 for an overseas deployment which she concluded in mid-September with visits to Faslane and Holy Loch in Scotland. While \"Whale\" visited Scotland, the Jordanian crisis —precipitated by civil war between the government of Jordan and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and aggravated by an incursion into northern Jordan by Syrian tanks – resulted a show of American strength in the eastern Mediterranean. Thus, \"Whale\" received orders to join the United States Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean and did so near the end of September 1970. She remained in the Mediterranean Sea through October and into November 1970. When the crisis abated, she headed for Charleston, arriving home on 18 November 1970 and remaining there for the remainder of the year.\n\nThree fleet exercises and local operations out of Charleston occupied \"Whale\" during the first half of 1971. Late in July, she deployed once more for special operations in the Atlantic Ocean, concluding that cruise late in September 1971 at Bremerhaven, West Germany. She returned to Charleston on 12 October 1971 and resumed local operations upon arrival. That routine continued until 20 March 1972, when she departed once again for another special operations cruise in the Atlantic. At the end of that voyage, she made a brief call at Holy Loch before returning to Charleston on 9 June 1972.\n\nAlmost two months after her return to the United States, \"Whale\" left Charleston and headed north to Naval Submarine Base New London, Connecticut, her new home port. She entered the shipyard at the Electric Boat Division in Groton on 7 August 1972 for a 46-week overhaul and remained there undergoing repairs until 27 October 1973.\n\n\"Whale\" completed post-overhaul shakedown and refresher training in November and December 1973 and began preparations for another deployment to the Mediterranean in response to the Middle Eastern crisis brought about by the Arab-Israeli War in October 1973. Late in January 1974, however, she received notification that her deployment had been delayed until May 1974. During the interim, she conducted normal operations out of Groton, including submarine anti-submarine warfare exercises, attack submarine training, and a major fleet exercise, Operation Safe Passage. On 3 May 1974, she departed Groton en route the Mediterranean Sea. On 12 May 1974, she changed operational control from the United States Second Fleet to the Sixth Fleet.\n\nWhile in the Mediterranean, \"Whale\" participated in two North Atlantic Treaty Organization exercises, \"International Week\" and \"Dale Falcon\", with units of the Greek and Italian navies as well as several antisubmarine warfare exercises with other units of the Sixth Fleet. She passed through the Strait of Gibraltar and changed operational control back to the Commander, Submarines, United States Atlantic Fleet, on 18 October 1974. During the voyage back to Groton, \"Whale\" participated in a fleet antisubmarine warfare exercise which she completed on 28 October 1974. On 30 October 1974, she arrived at Groton.\n\n\"Whale\" spent the next 11 months engaged in operations out of Groton. Various tests and evaluations occupied January and the first half of February 1975. Between then and June 19075, she provided training services for various units of the Atlantic Fleet and for prospective commanding officers. \"Whale\" also served as a training platform for midshipmen during indoctrination cruises held late in the summer. On 29 September 1975, she stood out of Groton for another deployment with the Sixth Fleet. During that cruise, she took part in a major Second Fleet exercise, \"Ocean Safari\", and, after joining the Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean Sea, took part in a succession of unilateral, bilateral, and multilateral exercises with units of the navies of Greece, France, Italy, and the Netherlands. She completed her tour of duty with the Sixth Fleet during the second week in March 1976 and arrived at Groton on 25 March 1976.\n\n\"Whale\" resumed normal United States East Coast operations until 9 September 1976 when she entered the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard at Kittery, Maine, for a refueling overhaul. That overhaul concluded on 7 July 1978. \"Whale\" then spent the remainder of 1978 in refresher training for the purpose of obtaining certification throughout the full range of her weapons system.\n\nIn the spring of 1979 \"Whale\" departed Groton for the Mediterranean. She made stops in Sousse, Tunisia; La Spezia, LaMaddellena and Naples, Italy and Tangier, Morocco. While in the Mediterranean Whale participated in fleet exercises.\n1979-Fall, 1980: The \"Whale\" was in an extended period of refit/repair (Selected Restricted Availability), in the floating drydock USS ARDM-4 in Groton, Connecticut. After refloating, workups, and training, she proceeded south for torpedo proficiency exercises, stopping for liberty at Port Everglades, FL. Go Go dancers from Butch Cassidy's greeted the \"Whale\" and her crew on arrival, and were heartily welcomed aboard. The \"Whale\" spent the remainder of 1980 and early 1981 on short training and test deployments, one of which concluded with the Thunderbuoy and Whitefish exercises. With a fresh coat of paint, and a new skipper, CDR E.D. Morrow, the \"Whale\" proceeded to the Mediterranean in June 1981, stopping on her way at Cartagena, Spain, which proved to be her only liberty port on this deployment. \"Whale\" spent the next six months in the Mediterranean Sea, taking part in the US Navy's defiance of Libyan president Mohammar Khadaffi's \"Line of Death\" in the Gulf of Sidra. \"Whale\" made periodic up-keeps at the submarine tender \"Orion\", in La Maddelena, Sardinia. Early 1982 found the \"Whale\" back home in Groton, making frequent short training workup runs, honing the crew's proficiency to a fine tune. In May 1982 \"Whale\" proceeded on an Atlantic deployment, (pollywogs among the crew becoming \"Bluenoses\" on the way), and later a stop in Faslane, Scotland. Whale earned the Battle \"E\" for efficiency after this deployment. Early 1983 the Whale had a new skipper, Captain James E. Welsch. Mid 1983 \"Whale\" was suddenly given a double barrel patrol – a North Atlantic deployment immediately followed by an abbreviated Mediterranean patrol. This was due to the USS \"Tullibee\" being unable to handle her commitments. This deployment, dubbed the \"Nor-Med Run\", was quite active, with port visits in Holy Loch Scotland, Toulon France, La Spezia, and La Maddalena, Italy. USS \"Whale\" left La Maddalena on Christmas Day 1983 and returned to Groton in January 1984. 1984 was spent doing up keep, refit, drilling, and short training deployments, most notably spending a week in St Croix, Virgin Islands. In January 1985, USS \"Whale\" again went on patrol to the Mediterranean, with stops in Holy Loch Scotland, Brest France, La Maddalena Italy, as well as Rotterdam Netherlands, prior to \"Whale\"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> being temporarily reassigned to Puget Sound Naval Shipyard at Bremerton, Washington for an overhaul period starting in November 1985. While undergoing overhaul in 1986, USS \"Whale\" crew members formed a unit softball team, which competed in and won the Northwestern Pacific Softball Championship. For a crew of roughly 120 to compete against much larger ships and commands, this was quite an accomplishment.\n\nJanuary 1988 found \"Whale\" in Bremerton completing its overhaul. She went through sea trials and left Washington sometime around June 1988 for her to return to her home port at Groton under the command of Commander J. W. Francis. \"Whale\" crossed the equator on 17 June 1988 and transited the Panama Canal on 19 June 1988.\n\n\"Whale\"s next major deployment was to the Mediterranean from February through July 1989, during which she made stops in Scotland, Portugal, Spain, and Italy. In 1990 \"Whale\" was sent on a North Atlantic deployment under the command of Commander Ronald Deering. \"Whale\" was awarded the last Battle Efficiency Award (Battle \"E\") from Submarine Squadron 10. She then was assigned to Submarine Squadron 2 and conducted a second \"Northern Run\" (i.e., North Atlantic deployment) in 1991.\n\nIn 1992, \"Whale\" participated in UNITAS XXXIII, an expedition around South America while under the command of Commander Andrew V. Harris, Jr., During UNITAS XXXIII she made port calls in Puerto Rico, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Panama, and Colombia. The port visit in Panama was a somber one due to the sudden loss of the ship's chief yeoman due to a heart attack. During UNITAS Whale again crossed the Equator and transited the Panama Canal (South to North).\n\nIn 1993 \"Whale\" visited Bermuda while transiting from the Autec Torpedo Firing Range, and Florida ports of call. Following the final Change of Command in Jan 1994 Whale conducted a scientific exercise under the ice cap at the North Pole and in the North Atlantic.\n\nFollowing a circumnavigation of the world, the \"Whale\" was deactivated while still in commission on 28 April 1995. \"Whale\" was placed in reserve, in commission, on 1 October 1995.\n\n\"Whale\"s scrapping via the U.S. Navy's Nuclear-Powered Ship and Submarine Recycling Program at Puget Sound Naval Shipyard at Bremerton, Washington, began on 20 October 1995. She was officially decommissioned on 25 June 1996 and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register the same day. Her scrapping was completed on 1 July 1996 and she was officially listed as scrapped on 29 September 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "112574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=112574", "title": "Union City, Indiana", "text": "Union City, Indiana\n\nUnion City is a city in Wayne Township, Randolph County, in the U.S. state of Indiana. , the city had a population of 3,584.\n\nUnion City was a stop along the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad, a forerunner of the Pennsylvania Railroad that connected Pittsburgh to Chicago and St. Louis. The Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway (also known as the \"Big Four\", a predecessor of the New York Central) had the east-west route connecting Indianapolis, Anderson and Muncie, Indiana with Sidney, Bellefontaine and Columbus, Ohio. It is believed by some area residents that the town got its nickname \"The Hub City\" because the two railroads intersected near the Ohio and Indiana state line.\n\nUnion City was platted in 1849, eleven years after its twin city of Union City, Ohio. A post office has been in operation at Union City, Indiana since 1852.\n\nThe William Kerr House, Raphael Kirshbaum Building, Union City Commercial Historic District, Union City Passenger Depot, Union City Public Library, and Union City School are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nUnion City is located at (40.201173, -84.815094).\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, Union City has a total area of , of which (or 99.59%) is land and (or 0.41%) is water.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 3,584 people, 1,477 households, and 922 families residing in the city. The population density was . There were 1,733 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the city was 87.6% White, 1.1% African American, 0.1% Native American, 0.1% Asian, 9.2% from other races, and 1.9% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 12.8% of the population.\n\nThere were 1,477 households of which 33.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 41.4% were married couples living together, 15.2% had a female householder with no husband present, 5.8% had a male householder with no wife present, and 37.6% were non-families. 32.8% of all households were made up of individuals and 17% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.43 and the average family size was 3.04.\nThe median age in the city was 35.4 years. 28.3% of residents were under the age of 18; 8.7% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 24.7% were from 25 to 44; 21.9% were from 45 to 64; and 16.5% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 48.6% male and 51.4% female.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 3,622 people, 1,569 households, and 969 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,995.1 people per square mile (768.4/km²). There were 1,738 housing units at an average density of 957.3 per square mile (368.7/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 94.04% White, 1.02% African American, 0.17% Native American, 0.22% Asian, 0.08% Pacific Islander, 3.12% from other races, and 1.35% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 4.53% of the population.\n\nThere were 1,569 households, of which 29.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 46.3% were married couples living together, 11.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 38.2% were non-families. 34.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 17.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.29 and the average family size was 2.91.\n\nIn the city, the population was 25.2% under the age of 18, 9.2% from 18 to 24, 25.9% from 25 to 44, 21.5% from 45 to 64, and 18.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females, there were 90.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 88.3 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $26,526, and the median income for a family was $34,250. Males had a median income of $27,877 versus $17,850 for females. The per capita income for the city was $13,981. About 14.5% of families and 19.7% of the population were below the poverty line, including 31.4% of those under age 18 and 14.1% of those age 65 or over.\n\nThe town has a lending library, the Union City Public Library.\n\nUnionCityNow.com is a locally owned online media outlet that focuses on current events and news stories within the community. The site also contains discussion forums focused on Union City history and local genealogy.\n\nKISS TV is a local-access television station run by the school corporation. It broadcasts on the local Time Warner Cable feed, as well as online. The school's DECA chapter also runs two school businesses: \"The TeePee\" which is a school store where students and staff can buy snacks during lunch periods, and \"Apache Design\" which is a T-shirt printing business where students record and produce orders for school functions and for various organizations in the community and surrounding area.\n\nWJYW 88.9 \"Joy FM\" broadcasts a Contemporary Christian music format.\n\nWTGR 97.5 FM \"Tiger Country\" is licensed to neighboring Union City, Ohio, with a studio in Greenville.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56881266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56881266", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of the Canary Islands", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of the Canary Islands\n\nThe Canary Islands requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current plates are European standard 520 mm × 110 mm, and use Spanish stamping dies.\n"}
{"id": "6898043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6898043", "title": "Zăvoiu", "text": "Zăvoiu\n\nZăvoiu may refer to several villages in Romania:\n\n"}
