{"id": "46267704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46267704", "title": "Alúvium Blhu", "text": "Alúvium Blhu\n\nAlúvium Blhu is a nature reserve in the Slovak county of Rimavská Sobota in the municipality of Hrušovo. It covers an area of 2,79 ha and has a protection level of 4 under the slovak law. It is part of the Cerová vrchovina Protected Landscape Area\n\nAlúvium Blhu was created for the protection of alder stands. The area is important for scientific research.\n\nOne of the protected plants in the area is the ostrich fern that occurs here in dense concentrations. This fern is a protected and very endangered species in Slovakia\n"}
{"id": "2169841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2169841", "title": "British Plant Communities", "text": "British Plant Communities\n\nBritish Plant Communities is a five-volume work, edited by John S. Rodwell and published by Cambridge University Press, which describes the plant communities which comprise the British National Vegetation Classification.\n\nIts coverage includes all native vegetation communities and some artificial ones of Great Britain, excluding Northern Ireland. The series is a major contribution to plant conservation in Great Britain, and, as such, covers material appropriate for professionals and amateurs interested in the conservation of native plant communities. Each book begins with an introduction to the techniques used to survey the particular vegetations within its scope, discussing sampling, the type of data collected, organization of the data, and analysing the data. Each community is discussed with an overall emphasis of the ecology of the community, so that users can consider the relationships of various plant communities to each other as a function of climatic or soil conditions, for example.\n\nThe five volumes are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of errors found in the published books:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49623014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49623014", "title": "CMMB (Catholic Medical Mission Board)", "text": "CMMB (Catholic Medical Mission Board)\n\nThe Catholic Medical Mission Board (CMMB) is an international, faith-based NGO, providing long-term, co-operative medical and development aid to communities affected by poverty and healthcare issues. It was established in 1912 and officially registered in 1928. CMMB is headquartered in New York City, USA, and currently has country offices in Haiti, Kenya, Peru, South Sudan, and Zambia.\n\nCMMB’s health programs include Children and Mothers Partnerships (CHAMPS), shipping of medical supplies, placement of international medical and non-medical volunteers, HIV/AIDS, prevention and treatment of neglected tropical diseases, and disaster relief to areas that experienced natural or political catastrophes. In 2015, CMMB provided health services to 680,000 people, including 200,000 pregnant women and children under age of five, trained 3,843 health workers, and placed 1,200 volunteers. CMMB actively works with the U.S. government on programming, such as the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and USAID. CDC multilateral donors include UNICEF, UNHCR, and PAHO, and public-private partnerships, including the Survive and Thrive Global Development Alliance.\n\nChildren and Mothers Partnerships (CHAMPS) is CMMB's long-term initiative to address the leading causes of maternal and child death, disability, and illness, including diarrhea, pneumonia, malaria and HIV. The program works both at community and clinical levels throughout Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean. It addresses common causes of poor health, including access to clean water, healthcare facilities and medicine supply, sanitation, agriculture/nutrition, and socio-economic development.\n\nSending volunteers and medical supplies to resource-poor areas are two of the original and continuing programs of CMMB. The Healing Help pharmaceutical program distributes donated medicines and medical supplies. Over eight years CMMB provided over US$2 billion worth of donated medicines to local healthcare partners in 120 countries. CMMB’s volunteer program provides medical and business expertise for community development at faith-based facilities in Haiti, Kenya, Peru, South Sudan, Zambia, and elsewhere.\n\nCMMB provides HIV/AIDS care, treatment, and support across all age groups and genders. Between 2003 and 2013 CMMB has participated in the U.S. government-funded AIDS Relief care and treatment program (PEPFAR) which has helped more than 700,000 HIV-infected people worldwide. It also partnered with the \"Choose To Care\" program of the Southern African Catholic Bishops Conference, which was funded by the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation and others, lending assistance to more than 140 community-based initiatives in South Africa, Namibia, Swaziland, Lesotho, and Botswana.\n\nThe history of CMMB (known as a committee of the Catholic Hospital Association until 1927) dates back to 1912, when a personal tragedy inspired CMMB’s founder Dr. Paluel J. Flagg to commit to medical missionary work, beginning with leprosy patients in Haiti.\n\nFor many decades, CMMB prioritized the shipping of medical supplies and equipment to missionaries and health partners around the world. In 1949, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, television personality and national director of the Society of the Propagation of the Faith, joined CMMB’s board and served for 26 years. Another stalwart supporter of CMMB has been the surgeon Tom Catena.\n\nIn 2002, CMMB introduced \"Born To Live\", a program designed for the prevention of mother-to-child (PMTCT) transmission of HIV which affected nearly 60,000 women in Haiti, Kenya and South Sudan.\nIn 2003, CMMB launched \"Action for Family Health\" to help reduce the mortality and morbidity rates of children in five Central American and Caribbean countries, through a partnership with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), Catholic healthcare networks, and the respective Ministries of Health in each country, providing deworming medicines to children.\n\nIn 2004, CMMB supported international and local partners in response to the tsunami disaster, committing US$3.1 million in health aid to survivors in India, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka.\n\nCMMB became a member of the AIDS Relief consortium in response to President Bush's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.\n\nIn 2010, CMMB provided over US$49 million and over 500 tons of pharmaceutical and medical supplies worth US$46.7 million to Haiti for earthquake relief through its local partners, and co-founded the Haiti Amputee Coalition to provide amputees with urgent medical care, basic needs, therapy and high-quality prostheses.\n\nIn 2013, CMMB delivered medicine and medical supplies valued at more than US$10 million to survivors of typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda) in the Philippines.\n\nCMMB’s work in Haiti goes back to 1912 and focuses on providing treatment and medicine for people living with HIV/AIDS. It is also building a primary healthcare facility, the Bishop Joseph M. Sullivan Center for Health, in Côtes-de-Fer, which will make basic and emergency care available to 55,000 Haitians. Joseph M. Sullivan had been Bishop of Brooklyn, New York, and on CMMB's Board of Directors.\n\nCMMB has run comprehensive HIV care programs in Kenya since 2003. In 2010, CMMB was providing life-saving antiretroviral treatment to nearly 47,000 Kenyans, and through its mentors helps more than 24,000 people living with HIV/AIDS, including issues like social stigma, in Kenya, South Sudan and Haiti.\n\nCMMB’s \"Women Fighting AIDS Kenya\" (WOFAK) is a community-based organization, providing prevention education, support groups, and clinical and nutritional care to 15,000 women and 5,000 children each year. CMMB provides voluntary medical male circumcision services as part of a comprehensive HIV-prevention package in Nairobi and Kisumu County.\n\nCMMB focuses on improving the health and nutrition of children under the age of five and pregnant women in under-served areas of Peru. It trains professional and community healthcare workers, advises parents on health and nutrition, provides nutritional supplementation to malnourished children, institutes community health-surveillance, and addresses issues of economic self-sufficiency through agricultural programs. A special program offers holistic care for children with mental disabilities.\n\nIn 2010-2013, CMMB, Bon Secours Health System, CHRISTUS Health, and Caritas del Peru partnered to implement the \"Unidos Contra la Mortalidad Infantil\" (United Against Infant Mortality) program, which was designed to decrease morbidity and mortality in children under five years of age.\n\nCMMB’s work in South Sudan includes HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and treatment, refugee health services, gender-based violence prevention, child protection, and primary healthcare.\n\nIn 2009, CMMB established \"ANISA\", healthcare initiatives to support local HIV/AIDS program. \"ANISA\", meaning “together” in the Zande language, aims to reduce the incidences of new HIV infections through HIV testing and counseling, and to prevent PMTCT and sexual transmission of the disease. CMMB partners with World Vision which provides community outreach in HIV prevention for a target audience of over 120,000 people annually.\n\nSince 2012, CMMB trains and provides support to birth attendants and nurses in safe delivery and infant health, along with ambulance services.\n\nCMMB focuses on maternal and child health including a four-year program for prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT), increasing uptake of voluntary medical male circumcision, and HIV counseling and testing (HCT), implementing community-based HIV prevention programs and preventing and treating malaria, TB, and leprosy.\n\nCMMB promotes male involvement in antenatal clinics and responsibility for the health of the family under the \"Men Taking Action\" (MTA™) model, including PMTCT, HCT services, and antiretroviral (ARV) treatment at 31 participating Church Health Institutions.\n\nBetween 2009-2012, CMMB managed the USAID-funded \"Malaria Communities Program\" under the President's Malaria Initiative (PMI) in the high transmission Luapula Province.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11251601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11251601", "title": "Carbon dioxide in Earth's atmosphere", "text": "Carbon dioxide in Earth's atmosphere\n\nCarbon dioxide () is an important trace gas in Earth's atmosphere. It is an integral part of the carbon cycle, a biogeochemical cycle in which carbon is exchanged between the Earth's oceans, soil, rocks and the biosphere. Plants and other photoautotrophs use solar energy to produce carbohydrate from atmospheric carbon dioxide and water by photosynthesis. Almost all other organisms depend on carbohydrate derived from photosynthesis as their primary source of energy and carbon compounds. absorbs and emits infrared radiation at wavelengths of 4.26 µm (asymmetric stretching vibrational mode) and 14.99 µm (bending vibrational mode) and consequently is a greenhouse gas that plays a vital role in regulating Earth's surface temperature through the greenhouse effect.\n\nConcentrations of in the atmosphere were as high as 4,000 parts per million (ppm) during the Cambrian period about 500 million years ago to as low as 180 ppm during the Quaternary glaciation of the last two million years. Estimates based on reconstructed temperature records suggests that the amount of during the last 420 million years ago was with ~2000 ppm highest during the Devonian (∼400 Myrs ago) and Triassic (220–200 Myrs ago), with a few maximum estimates ranging up to ∼3,700±1,600 ppm (215 Myrs ago). Global annual mean concentration has increased by more than 45% since the start of the Industrial Revolution, from 280 ppm during the 10,000 years up to the mid-18th century to 410 ppm as of mid-2018. The present concentration is the highest in the last 800,000 and possibly even the last 20 million years. The increase has been caused by human activities, particularly the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation. This increase of and other long-lived greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere has produced the current episode of global warming. About 30–40% of the released by humans into the atmosphere dissolves into oceans, rivers and lakes, which has produced ocean acidification.\n\nCarbon dioxide concentrations have shown several cycles of variation from about 180 parts per million during the deep glaciations of the Holocene and Pleistocene to 280 parts per million during the interglacial periods. Following the start of the Industrial Revolution, atmospheric concentration increased to over 400 parts per million and continues to increase, causing the phenomenon of global warming. , the average monthly level of in Earth's atmosphere exceeded 410 parts per million. The daily average concentration of atmospheric at Mauna Loa Observatory first exceeded 400 ppm on 10 May 2013 although this concentration had already been reached in the Arctic in June 2012. It currently constitutes about 0.041% by volume of the atmosphere, (equal to 410 ppm) which corresponds to approximately 3200 gigatons of , containing approximately 870 gigatons of carbon. Each part per million by volume of in the atmosphere thus represents approximately 2.13 gigatons of carbon. The global mean concentration is currently rising at a rate of approximately 2 ppm/year and accelerating. There is an annual fluctuation of about 3–9 ppm which is negatively correlated with the Northern Hemisphere's growing season. The Northern Hemisphere dominates the annual cycle of concentration because it has much greater land area and plant biomass than the Southern Hemisphere. Concentrations reach a peak in May as the Northern Hemisphere spring greenup begins, and decline to a minimum in October, near the end of the growing season.\n\nSince global warming is attributed to increasing atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases such as , scientists closely monitor atmospheric concentrations and their impact on the present-day biosphere. The \"National Geographic\" wrote that the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is this high \"for the first time in 55 years of measurement—and probably more than 3 million years of Earth history.\" The current concentration may be the highest in the last 20 million years.\n\nCarbon dioxide concentrations have varied widely over the Earth's 4.54 billion year history. Carbon dioxide is believed to have been present in Earth's first atmosphere, shortly after Earth's formation. The second atmosphere, consisting largely of nitrogen and carbon dioxide was produced by outgassing from volcanism, supplemented by gases produced during the late heavy bombardment of Earth by huge asteroids. A major part of carbon dioxide emissions were soon dissolved in water and built up carbonate sediments. \n\nThe production of free oxygen by cyanobacterial photosynthesis eventually led to the oxygen catastrophe that ended Earth's second atmosphere and brought about the Earth's third atmosphere (the modern atmosphere) 2.4 billion years before the present. Carbon dioxide concentrations dropped from 4,000 parts per million during the Cambrian period about 500 million years ago to as low as 180 parts per million during the Quaternary glaciation of the last two million years.\n\nOn long timescales, atmospheric concentration is determined by the balance among geochemical processes including organic carbon burial in sediments, silicate rock weathering, and volcanism. The net effect of slight imbalances in the carbon cycle over tens to hundreds of millions of years has been to reduce atmospheric . On a timescale of billions of years, such downward trend appears bound to continue indefinitely as occasional massive historical releases of buried carbon due to volcanism will become less frequent (as earth mantle cooling and progressive exhaustion of internal radioactive heat proceed further). The rates of these processes are extremely slow; hence they are of no relevance to the atmospheric concentration over the next hundreds or thousands of years.\n\nIn billion-year timescales, it is predicted that plant, and therefore animal, life on land will die off altogether, since by that time most of the remaining carbon in the atmosphere will be sequestered underground, and natural releases of by radioactivity-driven tectonic activity will have continued to slow down. The loss of plant life would also result in the eventual loss of oxygen. Some microbes are capable of photosynthesis at concentrations of of a few parts per million and so the last life forms would probably disappear finally due to the rising temperatures and loss of the atmosphere when the sun becomes a red giant some four billion years from now.\n\nThe most direct method for measuring atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations for periods before instrumental sampling is to measure bubbles of air (fluid or gas inclusions) trapped in the Antarctic or Greenland ice sheets. The most widely accepted of such studies come from a variety of Antarctic cores and indicate that atmospheric concentrations were about 260–280 ppmv immediately before industrial emissions began and did not vary much from this level during the preceding 10,000 years. The longest ice core record comes from East Antarctica, where ice has been sampled to an age of 800,000 years. During this time, the atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration has varied between 180–210 ppm during ice ages, increasing to 280–300 ppm during warmer interglacials. The beginning of human agriculture during the current Holocene epoch may have been strongly connected to the atmospheric increase after the last ice age ended, a fertilization effect raising plant biomass growth and reducing stomatal conductance requirements for intake, consequently reducing transpiration water losses and increasing water usage efficiency.\n\nVarious proxy measurements have been used to attempt to determine atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations millions of years in the past. These include boron and carbon isotope ratios in certain types of marine sediments, and the number of stomata observed on fossil plant leaves. \n\nPhytane is a type of diterpenoid alkane. It is a breakdown product of chlorophyll and is now used to indicate ancient CO2 levels. Phytane gives both a continuous record of CO2 concentrations but it also can overlap a break in the CO2 record of over 500 million years.\n\nThere is evidence for high volume concentrations between 200 and 150 million years ago of over 3,000 ppm, and between 600 and 400 million years ago of over 6,000 ppm. In more recent times, atmospheric concentration continued to fall after about 60 million years ago. About 34 million years ago, the time of the Eocene–Oligocene extinction event and when the Antarctic ice sheet started to take its current form, is found to have been about 760 ppm, and there is geochemical evidence that concentrations were less than 300 ppm by about 20 million years ago. Carbon dioxide decrease, with a tipping point of 600 ppm, was the primary agent forcing Antarctic glaciation. Low concentrations may have been the stimulus that favored the evolution of C4 plants, which increased greatly in abundance between 7 and 5 million years ago. Based on an analysis of fossil leaves, Wagner et al. argued that atmospheric concentrations during the last 7,000–10,000 year period were significantly higher than 300 ppm and contained substantial variations that may be correlated to climate variations. Others have disputed such claims, suggesting they are more likely to reflect calibration problems than actual changes in . Relevant to this dispute is the observation that Greenland ice cores often report higher and more variable values than similar measurements in Antarctica. However, the groups responsible for such measurements (e.g. H.J. Smith et al.) believe the variations in Greenland cores result from \"in situ\" decomposition of calcium carbonate dust found in the ice. When dust concentrations in Greenland cores are low, as they nearly always are in Antarctic cores, the researchers report good agreement between measurements of Antarctic and Greenland concentrations.\n\nEarth’s natural greenhouse effect makes life as we know it possible and carbon dioxide plays a significant role in providing for the relatively warm temperature that the planet enjoys. The greenhouse effect is a process by which thermal radiation from a planetary atmosphere warms the planet's surface beyond the temperature it would have in the absence of its atmosphere. Without the greenhouse effect, the Earth's temperature would be about −18 °C (-0.4 °F) compared to Earth's actual surface temperature of approximately 14 °C (57.2 °F).\n\nCarbon dioxide is believed to have played an important effect in regulating Earth's temperature throughout its 4.7 billion year history. Early in the Earth's life, scientists have found evidence of liquid water indicating a warm world even though the Sun's output is believed to have only been 70% of what it is today. It has been suggested by scientists that higher carbon dioxide concentrations in the early Earth's atmosphere might help explain this faint young sun paradox. When Earth first formed, Earth's atmosphere may have contained more greenhouse gases and concentrations may have been higher, with estimated partial pressure as large as , because there was no bacterial photosynthesis to reduce the gas to carbon compounds and oxygen. Methane, a very active greenhouse gas which reacts with oxygen to produce and water vapor, may have been more prevalent as well, with a mixing ratio of 10 (100 parts per million by volume).\n\nThough water is responsible for most (about 36-70%) of the total greenhouse effect, the role of water vapor as a greenhouse gas depends on temperature. On Earth, carbon dioxide is the most relevant, direct anthropologically influenced greenhouse gas. Carbon dioxide is often mentioned in the context of its increased influence as a greenhouse gas since the pre-industrial (1750) era. In the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report the increase in CO was estimated to be responsible for 1.82 W·m of the 2.63 W·m change in radiative forcing on Earth (about 70%).\n\nThe concept of atmospheric CO increasing ground temperature was first published by Svante Arrhenius in 1896. The increased radiative forcing due to increased CO in the Earth's atmosphere is based on the physical properties of CO and the non-saturated absorption windows where CO absorbs outgoing long-wave energy.\n\nAtmospheric carbon dioxide plays an integral role in the Earth's carbon cycle whereby carbon dioxide is removed from the atmosphere by some natural processes such as photosynthesis and deposition of carbonates, to form limestones for example, and added back to the atmosphere by other natural processes such as respiration and the acid dissolution of carbonate deposits. There are two broad carbon cycles on Earth: the fast carbon cycle and the slow carbon cycle. The fast carbon cycle refers to movements of carbon between the environment and living things in the biosphere whereas the slow carbon cycle involves the movement of carbon between the atmosphere, oceans, soil, rocks, and volcanism. Both carbon cycles are intrinsically interconnected and atmospheric gaseous carbon dioxide facilitates the carbon cycle.\nNatural sources of atmospheric carbon dioxide include volcanic outgassing, the combustion of organic matter, wildfires and the respiration processes of living aerobic organisms. Man-made sources of carbon dioxide include the burning of fossil fuels for heating, power generation and transport, as well as some industrial processes such as cement making. It is also produced by various microorganisms from fermentation and cellular respiration. Plants, algae and cyanobacteria convert carbon dioxide to carbohydrates by a process called photosynthesis. They gain the energy needed for this reaction from absorption of sunlight by chlorophyll and other pigments. Oxygen, produced as a by-product of photosynthesis, is released into the atmosphere and subsequently used for respiration by heterotrophic organisms and other plants, forming a cycle.\n\nMost sources of emissions are natural, and are balanced to various degrees by natural sinks. For example, the natural decay of organic material in forests and grasslands and the action of forest fires results in the release of about 439 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide every year, while new growth entirely counteracts this effect, absorbing 450 gigatonnes per year. Although the initial carbon dioxide in the atmosphere of the young Earth was produced by volcanic activity, modern volcanic activity releases only 130 to 230 megatonnes of carbon dioxide each year. These natural sources are nearly balanced by natural sinks, physical and biological processes which remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. For example, some is directly removed from the atmosphere by land plants for photosynthesis and it is soluble in water forming carbonic acid. There is a large natural flux of into and out of the biosphere and oceans. In the pre-industrial era these fluxes were largely in balance. Currently about 57% of human-emitted is removed by the biosphere and oceans. From pre-industrial era to 2010, the terrestrial biosphere represented a net source of atmospheric prior to 1940, switching subsequently to a net sink. The ratio of the increase in atmospheric to emitted is known as the \"airborne fraction\" (Keeling et al., 1995); this varies for short-term averages and is typically about 45% over longer (5 year) periods. Estimated carbon in global terrestrial vegetation increased from approximately 740 billion tons in 1910 to 780 billion tons in 1990.\n\nCarbon dioxide in the Earth's atmosphere is essential to life and to the present planetary biosphere. Over the course of Earth's geologic history concentrations have played a role in biological evolution. The first photosynthetic organisms probably evolved early in the evolutionary history of life and most likely used reducing agents such as hydrogen or hydrogen sulfide as sources of electrons, rather than water. Cyanobacteria appeared later, and the excess oxygen they produced contributed to the oxygen catastrophe, which rendered the evolution of complex life possible. In recent geologic times, low concentrations below 600 parts per million might have been the stimulus that favored the evolution of C4 plants which increased greatly in abundance between 7 and 5 million years ago over plants that use the less efficient C3 metabolic pathway. At current atmospheric pressures photosynthesis shuts down when atmospheric concentrations fall below 150 ppm and 200 ppm although some microbes can extract carbon from the air at much lower concentrations. Today, the average rate of energy capture by photosynthesis globally is approximately 130 terawatts, which is about six times larger than the current power consumption of human civilization. Photosynthetic organisms also convert around 100–115 thousand million metric tonnes of carbon into biomass per year.\n\nPhotosynthetic organisms are photoautotrophs, which means that they are able to synthesize food directly from and water using energy from light. However, not all organisms that use light as a source of energy carry out photosynthesis, since \"photoheterotrophs\" use organic compounds, rather than , as a source of carbon. In plants, algae and cyanobacteria, photosynthesis releases oxygen. This is called \"oxygenic photosynthesis\". Although there are some differences between oxygenic photosynthesis in plants, algae, and cyanobacteria, the overall process is quite similar in these organisms. However, there are some types of bacteria that carry out anoxygenic photosynthesis, which consumes but does not release oxygen.\n\nCarbon dioxide is converted into sugars in a process called carbon fixation. Carbon fixation is an endothermic redox reaction, so photosynthesis needs to supply both the source of energy to drive this process and the electrons needed to convert into a carbohydrate. This addition of the electrons is a reduction reaction. In general outline and in effect, photosynthesis is the opposite of cellular respiration, in which glucose and other compounds are oxidized to produce and water, and to release exothermic chemical energy to drive the organism's metabolism. However, the two processes take place through a different sequence of chemical reactions and in different cellular compartments.\n\nMost organisms that utilize photosynthesis to produce oxygen use visible light to do so, although at least three use shortwave infrared or, more specifically, far-red radiation.\n\nA 1993 review of scientific greenhouse studies found that a doubling of concentration would stimulate the growth of 156 different plant species by an average of 37%. Response varied significantly by species, with some showing much greater gains and a few showing a loss. For example, a 1979 greenhouse study found that with doubled concentration the dry weight of 40-day-old cotton plants doubled, but the dry weight of 30-day-old maize plants increased by only 20%.\n\nIn addition to greenhouse studies, field and satellite measurements attempt to understand the effect of increased in more natural environments. In free-air carbon dioxide enrichment (FACE) experiments plants are grown in field plots and the concentration of the surrounding air is artificially elevated. These experiments generally use lower levels than the greenhouse studies. They show lower gains in growth than greenhouse studies, with the gains depending heavily on the species under study. A 2005 review of 12 experiments at 475-600 ppm showed an average gain of 17% in crop yield, with legumes typically showing a greater response than other species and C4 plants generally showing less. The review also stated that the experiments have their own limitations. The studied levels were lower, and most of the experiments were carried out in temperate regions. Satellite measurements found increasing leaf area index for 25% to 50% of Earth's vegetated area Earth over the past 35 years, providing evidence for a positive CO fertilization effect.\n\nA 2017 article states that increased levels have a negative impact on the nutritional quality of various human food crops, by increasing the levels of carbohydrates, such as glucose, while decreasing the levels of important nutrients such as protein, iron, and zinc. Crops experiencing a decrease in protein include rice, wheat, barley and potatoes.\n\nThe Earth's oceans contain a large amount of in the form of bicarbonate and carbonate ions — much more than the amount in the atmosphere. The bicarbonate is produced in reactions between rock, water, and carbon dioxide. One example is the dissolution of calcium carbonate:\n\nReactions like this tend to buffer changes in atmospheric . Since the right side of the reaction produces an acidic compound, adding on the left side decreases the pH of seawater, a process which has been termed ocean acidification (pH of the ocean becomes more acidic although the pH value remains in the alkaline range). Reactions between and non-carbonate rocks also add bicarbonate to the seas. This can later undergo the reverse of the above reaction to form carbonate rocks, releasing half of the bicarbonate as . Over hundreds of millions of years, this has produced huge quantities of carbonate rocks.\n\nUltimately, most of the emitted by human activities will dissolve in the ocean; however, the rate at which the ocean will take it up in the future is less certain.\nEven if equilibrium is reached, including dissolution of carbonate minerals, the increased concentration of bicarbonate and decreased or unchanged concentration of carbonate ion will give rise to a higher concentration of un-ionized carbonic acid and dissolved . This, along with higher temperatures, would mean a higher equilibrium concentration of in the air.\n\nWhile absorption and release is always happening as a result of natural processes, the recent rise in levels in the atmosphere is known to be mainly due to human (anthropogenic) activity. There are four ways human activity, especially fossil fuel burning, is known to have caused the rapid increase in atmospheric over the last few centuries. 1) Various national statistics accounting for fossil fuel consumption, combined with knowledge of how much atmospheric is produced per unit of fossil fuel (e.g. liter of gasoline). 2) By examining the ratio of various carbon isotopes in the atmosphere. The burning of long-buried fossil fuels releases containing carbon of different isotopic ratios to those of living plants, enabling distinction between natural and human-caused contributions to concentration. 3) Higher atmospheric concentrations in the Northern Hemisphere, where most of the world's population lives (and emissions originate from), compared to the southern hemisphere. This difference has increased as anthropogenic emissions have increased. 4) Atmospheric O levels are decreasing in Earth's atmosphere as it reacts with the carbon in fossil fuels to form .\n\nBurning fossil fuels such as coal, petroleum, and natural gas is the leading cause of increased anthropogenic ; deforestation is the second major cause. In 2010, 9.14 gigatonnes of carbon (GtC, equivalent to 33.5 gigatonnes of or about 4.3 ppm in Earth's atmosphere) were released from fossil fuels and cement production worldwide, compared to 6.15 GtC in 1990. In addition, land use change contributed 0.87 GtC in 2010, compared to 1.45 GtC in 1990. In 1997, human-caused Indonesian peat fires were estimated to have released between 13% and 40% of the average carbon emissions caused by the burning of fossil fuels around the world in a single year. In the period 1751 to 1900, about 12 GtC were released as to the atmosphere from burning of fossil fuels, whereas from 1901 to 2013 the figure was about 380 GtC.\n\nAnthropogenic carbon emissions exceed the amount that can be taken up or balanced out by natural sinks. As a result, carbon dioxide has gradually accumulated in the atmosphere, and , its concentration is almost 43% above pre-industrial levels. Various techniques have been proposed for removing excess carbon dioxide from the atmosphere in carbon dioxide sinks. Currently about half of the carbon dioxide released from the burning of fossil fuels is not absorbed by vegetation and the oceans and remains in the atmosphere.\n\nExcess emitted since the pre-industrial era is projected to remain in the atmosphere for centuries to millennia, even after emissions stop. Even if human carbon dioxide emissions were to completely cease, atmospheric temperatures are not expected to decrease significantly for thousands of years.\n\nThe first reproducibly accurate measurements of atmospheric CO were from flask sample measurements made by Dave Keeling at Caltech in the 1950s. A few years later in March 1958 the first ongoing measurements were started by Keeling at Mauna Loa. Measurements at Mauna Loa have been ongoing since then. Now measurements are made at many sites globally. Additional measurement techniques are also used as well. Many measurement sites are part of larger global networks. Global network data are often made publicly available on the conditions of proper acknowledgment according to the respective data user policies.\n\nThere are several surface measurement (including flasks and continuous in situ) networks including NOAA/ERSL, WDCGG, and RAMCES. The NOAA/ESRL Baseline Observatory Network, and the Scripps Institution of Oceanography Network data are hosted at the CDIAC at ORNL. The World Data Centre for Greenhouse Gases (WDCGG), part of GAW, data are hosted by the JMA. The Reseau Atmospherique de Mesure des Composes an Effet de Serre database (RAMCES) is part of IPSL.\n\nFrom these measurements, further products are made which integrate data from the various sources. These products also address issues such as data discontinuity and sparseness. GLOBALVIEW-CO2 is one of these products.\n\nOngoing ground-based total column measurements began more recently. Column measurements typically refer to an averaged column amount denoted X, rather than a surface only measurement. These measurements are made by the TCCON. These data are also hosted on the CDIAC, and made publicly available according to the data use policy.\n\nSatellite measurements are also a recent addition to atmospheric X measurements. SCIAMACHY aboard ESA's ENVISAT made global column X measurements from 2002-2012. AIRS aboard NASA’s Aqua satellite makes global X measurements and was launched shortly after ENVISAT in 2012. More recent satellites have significantly improved the data density and precision of global measurements. Newer missions have higher spectral and spatial resolutions. JAXA's GOSAT was the first dedicated GHG monitoring satellite to successfully achieve orbit in 2009. NASA's OCO-2 launched in 2014 was the second. Various other satellites missions to measure atmospheric X are planned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32482657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32482657", "title": "Cirrocumulus lacunosus", "text": "Cirrocumulus lacunosus\n\nCirrocumulus lacunosus is a type of cirrocumulus cloud. The name \"cirrocumulus lacunosus\" is derived from Latin, meaning \"full of hollows\". Cirrocumulus lacunosus is a relatively rare cloud form that occurs as a layer of cloud with circular holes in it. Formation is commonly attributed to a cool layer mixing with a warmer, higher layer of the atmosphere. These holes normally have frayed edges, and they are often arranged in a manner that resembles a net or a honeycomb.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2832655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832655", "title": "Clear Creek State Park", "text": "Clear Creek State Park\n\nClear Creek State Park is a Pennsylvania state park in Barnett and Heath Townships, Jefferson County, Pennsylvania in the United States. Public campsites were first opened at the park in 1922. Many of the facilities seen today at the park were constructed during the Great Depression by the Civilian Conservation Corps. Clear Creek State Park is from Brookville on Pennsylvania Route 949 at the confluence of Clear Creek and the Clarion River.\n\nClear Creek State Park is open to many recreational opportunities. There are of hiking trails that run through the park and into Clear Creek State Forest. One such trail leads to Bear Town Rocks, a group of large boulders in the middle of the forest, from the top of which one can get a scenic view of the surrounding area. The park has extensive picnic facilities and is open to hunting and fishing and serves as a launch point for canoeing on the Clarion River.\n\nAbout of Clear Creek State Park are open to hunting. Hunters may park at the park to gain access to the surrounding Kitanning State Forest. Common game species are white-tailed deer, black bear, turkey, and squirrels. The hunting of groundhogs is prohibited. All hunters are expected to follow the rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania Game Commission.\n\nClear Creek has a native and stocked population of brook trout. The Clarion River also has some trout, panfish and smallmouth bass. Some of the small tributaries of Clear Creek and the Clarion River are also stocked with trout by the Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission.\n\nThe Clarion River is a popular destination for canoeing enthusiasts. They commonly launch their canoes at Clear Creek State Park for the 4 and a half hour trip () to Cook Forest State Park. Canoes are available to rent from various outfitters in the area.\n\nCabins and Mongolian style yurts are available for rent to visitors interested in spending more than a day at Clear Creek State Park. Twenty-two rustic cabins built by the Civilian Conservation Corps can be rented on a weekly basis beginning with the opening of trout season in April and ending at the conclusion of deer season in December. The cabins are heated with either a wood stove or a propane heater. The two yurts have electric heat. Both the cabins and yurts have minimal accommodations. Single bunk beds, tables, chairs, an electric range, refrigerator and lights are provided. There is a centrally located shower area with frost free water spigots for drinking water.\n\nThe campground opens and closes with the cabins and yurts. Fifty-three trailer and tent sites are available for use. The rustic campground is located in the woods with outhouses and a sanitary dump station. There is a 9-hole disc golf course and a concrete basketball court next to the campground.\n\nThe following state parks are within of Clear Creek State Park:\n"}
{"id": "10477054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10477054", "title": "Coldwater River (Michigan)", "text": "Coldwater River (Michigan)\n\nColdwater River is the name of three streams in the U.S. state of Michigan:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2593180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2593180", "title": "Dominic Couzens", "text": "Dominic Couzens\n\nDominic Couzens is a British birder, author and journalist specialising in avian and natural history subjects.\n\nHe contributes regularly to \"Bird Watching\" and \"BBC Wildlife\" magazines; and is also a professional field trip guide. His books \"The Secret Lives of Garden Birds\", \"The Secret Lives of British Birds\", and \"The Secret Lives of Garden Wildlife\" all received praise, with the former selected by \"The Guardian\" as one of the best wildlife books of 2004, an accolade also received by \"the Secret Lives of British Birds\", and the latter picked as one of the best new nature books of Spring 2008 by \"The Times\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12357357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12357357", "title": "Energy Efficiency and Conservation Authority", "text": "Energy Efficiency and Conservation Authority\n\nEnergy Efficiency and Conservation Authority (EECA) is a New Zealand government/Crown agency responsible for promoting energy efficiency and conservation. \n\nThe EECA was set up by the Fourth National Government of New Zealand in 1992 to encourage, support and promote energy efficiency, energy conservation, and the use of renewable sources of energy. The EECA, by promoting energy efficiency, helps to reduce climate change and GHG emissions through energy efficiency measures.\n\nIn 2000 EECA became a Crown entity, established under the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act 2000. It is subject to the Crown Entities Act 2004.\n\nThe passing of the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act meant that for the first time, New Zealand had a legislative basis for promoting energy efficiency, energy conservation, and renewable energy.\n\nThe Energy Efficiency and Conservation Authority is responsible for preparing a national energy efficiency and conservation strategy for approval by the administering Minister.\n\nIn 2004, EECA launched the Energywise Home Grants Programme to provide insulation retrofits to low-income owners of homes built before 1978. That year, minimum insulation standards were introduced to the New Zealand building code, and the majority of homes built prior to this had no insulation at all. The Energywise Programme had a target of insulating 6000 homes.\n\nIn 2009 the New Zealand Government allocated an extra $247.7 million to EECA for home insulation grants. The programme was called Warm Up New Zealand: Heat Smart and insulated more than 235,000 homes.\n\nIn 2013, the Government allocated $100 million of operating funding over three years to the Warm Up New Zealand: Healthy Homes programme, targeting low-income households for home insulation, particularly households occupied by children and/or the elderly.\n\nAs at 2013 Tom Campbell is the chair of the EECA Board. The Chief Executive is Mike Underhill. The employees remuneration statement in the 2014 annual report reveals that he receives remuneration and benefits of over $280,000.\n\nIn April 2017, the EECA said that they would retire the \"Energy Star\" label at the end of 2017, as it is becoming less relevant. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10181384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10181384", "title": "Energy Performance Certificate (United Kingdom)", "text": "Energy Performance Certificate (United Kingdom)\n\nEnergy performance certificates (EPCs) are a rating scheme to summarise the energy efficiency of buildings in the European Union.\n\nEPCs were introduced in England and Wales on 1 August 2007 as part of Home Information Packs (HIPs) for domestic properties with four or more bedrooms. Over time this requirement was extended to smaller properties. When the requirement for HIPs was removed in May 2010, the requirement for EPCs continued. The scheme for HIPs was extended to encompass three bedroom homes from 10 September 2007. Rental properties, which have a certificate valid for 10 years, required on a new tenancy commencing on or after 1 October 2008. They are a result of European Union Directive 2002/91/EC relating to the energy performance of buildings, as transposed into British law by the Housing Act 2004 and The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 (S.I. 2007/991).\n\nThe energy survey needed to produce an EPC is performed by an assessor who visits the property, examines key items such as loft insulation, domestic boiler, hot water tank, radiators, windows for double glazing, and so on. He or she then inputs the observations into a software program which performs the calculation of energy efficiency. The program gives a single number for the rating of energy efficiency, and a recommended value of the potential for improvement. There are similar figures for environmental impact. A table of estimated energy bills per annum (and the potential for improvement) is also presented, but without any reference to householder bills. The householder will have to pay for the survey, which costs around £60 for a four bedroom house. The exercise is entirely non-invasive, so the software will make assumptions on the insulation properties of various elements of the property based on age and construction type. The assessor has the ability to over-ride these assumptions if visual or written evidence is provided to support the presence of insulation which may have been subsequently installed.\n\nThe calculation of the energy ratings on the energy performance certificate are based on the RDSAPv9.93 procedure, which is a simplified version of the SAP2012. SAP is short for Standard Assessment Procedure and RDSAP for Reduced Data SAP; both are derived from the UK Building Research Establishment's Domestic Energy Model (BREDEM), which was originally developed in the 1980s and also underlies the NHER Rating. EPCs have to be produced by domestic energy assessors who are registered under an approved certification scheme.\n\nThe certificate contains the following property details:\n\nThe \"total floor area\" is the area contained within the external walls of the property. The figure includes internal walls, stairwells and the like, but excludes garages, porches, areas less than 1.5 m high, balconies and any similar area that is not an internal part of the dwelling.\n\nEnergy performance certificates present the energy efficiency of dwellings on a scale of A to G. The most efficient homes – which should have the lowest fuel bills – are in band A. The certificate uses the same scale to define the impact a home has on the environment. Better-rated homes should have less impact through carbon dioxide (CO) emissions. The average property in the UK is in band D or E.\n\nThe EPC will become more significant from April 2014 when Domestic Renewable Heat Incentives (RHI) become available. The amount of the deemed expected annual heat use for a domestic property can be obtained from the EPC and this will determine the amount of Domestic RHI which is payable on installing renewable heat options like ground source heat pumps and solar thermal collectors.\n\nThe certificate includes recommendations on ways to improve the home’s energy efficiency to save money. The accuracy of the recommendations will depend on the inspection standards applied by the inspector, which may be variable. Inspectors, who may be Home Inspectors (HIs) or Domestic Energy Assessors (DEAs), are audited by their accreditation bodies in order to maintain standards. The recommendations appear general in tone, but are in fact bespoke to the property in question. The logic by which the RDSAP program makes its recommendations was developed as part of a project to create the RDSAP methodology, which took place during the early years of the 21st century. The EU directive requires the EPC recommendations to be cost effective in improving the energy efficiency of the home, but in addition to presenting the most cost effective options, more expensive options which are less cost effective are also presented. To distinguish them from the more cost effective measures, these are shown in a section described as 'further measures'. Because the EPC is designed to be produced at change of occupancy, it must be relevant to any occupier and it therefore must make no allowance for the particular preferences of the current occupier.\n\nProperties exempt from the Housing Act 2004 are:\n\nThe possible exemption of listed buildings has always been a contentious issue. As a devolved issue, no exemption of listed buildings exists under the Scottish Regulations. In England & Wales, listed buildings are only exempt \"...in so far as compliance with certain minimum energy performance requirements would unacceptably alter their character or appearance.\" In order to determine whether an EPC will have recommendations that would unacceptably alter the appearance or character of the listed dwelling is lodge an EPC and find out.\n\nIn addition to the requirements in relation to dwellings there is also a requirement for EPCs on the sale, rent or construction of buildings other than dwellings with a floor area greater than 50m from 6 April 2008, that contain fixed services that condition the interior environment.\n\nProperties that are exempt from requiring a domestic EPC will generally require a non-domestic energy performance certificate, which was also required by the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive. Non-dwellings are \"responsible for almost 20 per cent of the UK’s energy consumption and carbon emissions.\"\n\nAll non-domestic EPCs must be carried out by, or under the direct supervision of, a trained non-domestic energy assessor, registered with an approved accreditation body. DCLG has arranged for a publicly accessible central register of such assessors maintained by the Landmark Information Group.\n\nThere are three levels of building, Level 3, Level 4 and Level 5. The complexity and the services used by that building will determine which level it falls under. The Commercial Energy Assessor must be qualified to the level of the building to carry out the inspection. \n\nFrom October 2008 all buildings including factories, offices, retail premises and public sector buildings - must have an EPC whenever the building is sold, built or rented. Public buildings in England and Wales (but not Scotland) also require a display energy certificate showing actual energy use, and not just the theoretical energy rating. From January 2009 inspections for air conditioning systems will be introduced.\n\nThe A to G scale is a linear scale based on two key points defined as follows:\n\n†This is based on the actual building dimensions but with standard assumptions for fabric, glazing and building services.\n\nSee an example.\n\nDisplay energy certificates (DECs) show the actual energy usage of a building, the Operational Rating, and help the public see the energy efficiency of a building. This is based on the energy consumption of the building as recorded by gas, electricity and other meters. The DEC should be clearly displayed at all times and clearly visible to the public. A DEC is always accompanied by an Advisory Report that lists cost effective measures to improve the energy rating of the building.\n\nDisplay energy certificates are only required for buildings with a total useful floor area over 500m that are occupied by a public authority and institution providing a public service to a large number of persons and therefore visited by those persons. The useful floor area limit will be reduced to 250m in July 2015.\n\nWhere the building has a total useful floor area of more than 1,000m, the DEC is valid for 12 months. The accompanying advisory report is valid for seven years. Where the building has a total useful floor area of between 500m and 1000m, the DEC and advisory report are valid for 10 years.\n\nHowever, to make it easier for public authorities with multiple buildings on one site to comply with the legislation, a site-based approach for the first year (to October 2009) is allowed where it is not possible to produce individual DECs. This means that only one DEC will need to be produced based on the total energy consumption of the buildings on the site. Public bodies most affected by this relaxation are NHS Trusts, universities and schools.\n\nThe requirement for display energy certificates came into effect from 1 October 2008. They were trialled in the UK under an EU-funded project also called \"Display\" and co-ordinated by Energie-Cités; participants included Durham County Council and the Borough of Milton Keynes.\n\nThis is the operational rating for this building. The rating shows the energy performance of the building as it is being used by the occupants, when compared to the performance of other buildings of the same type. A building with performance equal to one typical of its type would therefore have an Operational Rating of 100. A building that resulted in zero CO2 emissions would have an Operational Rating of zero, and a building that resulted in twice the typical CO2 emissions would have an Operational Rating of 200.\n\nThis rating indicates whether the building is being operated above or below average performance for a building of this type.\n\nSee an example.\n\nEPCs have gained some political controversy, partly reflecting the housing market crisis in the United Kingdom (2008).\n\nMany in the housing industry, such as the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, have criticised the introduction of EPCs, on the grounds of poor quality.. Whilst critical, RICS still provided courses Domestic Energy Assessment, as well as courseware manuals for the professions of Domestic Energy Assessors.\n\nA further objection is often made concerning the quality of inspection made to produce the certificate. It cannot be invasive, so the inspector cannot drill walls or ceilings to determine the state or even existence of any insulation. The Energy Assessor can either assume the worst (no insulation present) or rely on the householder to produce documentary evidence on what may have been installed. This can produce uncertainty about the validity of the output from the assessor's analysis.\n\nFinally, EPCs pose particular problems for the owners of listed buildings, as improvements, such as double glazing, are often barred by the controls on changes to such structures, making it difficult to rectify low ratings.\n\n"}
{"id": "14049003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14049003", "title": "Energy in Kazakhstan", "text": "Energy in Kazakhstan\n\nEnergy in Kazakhstan describes energy and electricity production, consumption and import in Kazakhstan. Energy policy of Kazakhstan describes the politics of Kazakhstan related to energy.\n\nKazakhstan is net energy exporter. Kazakhstan has oil, gas, coal and uranium reserves. Kazakhstan is a leading energy producer in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). It is a major producer of oil, gas, and coal, as well as being the largest producer and exporter of uranium ore in the world. \n\nAccording to IEA primary energy supply increased 29% and energy export 21% from 2004 to 2008 in Kazakhstan.\n\nKazakhstan started looking for ways to use its renewable energy sources. In late January 2015, an action plan was adopted on the development of renewable energy for the period of 2013 to 2020.\n\nOn July 20, 2015 Kazakhstan Investment and Development Minister announced that the country would establish a special fund engaged in financing energy-saving programs.\n\nIn the first half of 2016, Kazakhstan significantly increased the installed capacity of renewable energy facilities, which totaled 251.55 megawatts. It is 1.4 times more than in the same period of 2015.\n\nKazakhstan has estimated 30 billion barrels of oil reserves. With 172 oilfields, Kazakhstan possesses 3% of global oil reserves, putting it among the world’s top 15 countries in terms of oil reserves. The main reserves are in five largest onshore oil fields of Tengiz – the largest oil producing field with 565,000 barrels per day of crude in 2011 - Karachaganak, Aktobe, Mangistau, and Uzen, all of which are located in the western part of the country. These hold half of current proven reserves. The offshore fields of Kashagan and Kurmanagazy in the Caspian Sea are estimated to hold minimum 14 million barrels. With 9 – 11 billion barrels, Kashagan is the largest oil field outside of the Middle East. It is estimated to come on stream in 2016 and reach production of 1.5 million barrels per day at its peak. Kazakhstan is a major oil producer with an estimated total production of 1.64 million barrels per day in 2013. The country consumes around 13 per cent of the supply domestically and exports the rest to major oil markets. To continue expanding the liquids production above its current levels, the country needs to develop its Tengiz, Karachaganak, and Kashagan fields as well as add export capacity.\n\nKazMunayGas (KMG), the national oil and gas company, was created in 2002 to represent the interests of the state in the oil and gas industry. The oil production development has been made possible largely due to significant foreign investment, primarily from the Netherlands and the US in the early 2000s. In 2010, the Kazakh government took away KMG’s responsibility to regulate the sector to enable the company’s higher level of involvement in the commercial sector. The government now reserves a majority stake for KMG in all new projects and joint ventures. KMG now controls 20 per cent of total oil and gas proved reserves of Kazakhstan and produces 27 per cent of total oil and gas condensate and 14 per cent of gas.\n\nKazakhstan has three major refineries - Atyrau, Shymkent and Pavlodar. Their combined crude refining capacity amounts to around 350,000 barrels per day, roughly evenly split amongst the three. Due to aged infrastructure, they mostly operate only at 60 per cent of their capacity. The government has made significant investment in the modernization of these units to be completed around 2016.\n\nIn mid-2016, a group of oil companies led by Chevron announced a $36.8 billion investment deal for the development of Kazakhstan’s Tengiz oil field. According to experts, this investment may allow Kazakhstan to become a top 10 oil producer.\n\nKazakhstan’s proven reserves of natural gas are 85 trillion cubic feet. (2013). Majority of natural gas reserves are located in the west of Kazakhstan and concentrated in four fields – Karachanganak (46 per cent), Tengiz (12 per cent), Imashevskoye (7 per cent) and Kashagan (12 per cent). Between 2000-2012 the natural gas production increased four times to 40.1 billion cubic meters in 2012. However, only 53 per cent of this gas was for commercial purposes; the rest was re-injected into oil fields to enhance production.\n\nKazakhstan’s gas production suffices to meet domestic demand of 10.5 billion cubic meters (2012). However, due to limited internal gas pipeline network that does not connect all the production centers (west) with demand centers (south, east, north), the country needs to import gas from Uzbekistan to satisfy the demand in the south of the country and from Russia to satisfy demand in the north and east. In 2012, the country exported 8.8 billion cubic meters of gas to China through the Central Asia – China pipeline. Kazakhstan serves as a major transit country for gas exports from Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan that are destined to Russia and China. In 2012, the amount of gas transited through Kazakhstan was 96.5 billion cubic meters.\n\nKazakhstan sits on Central Asia’s largest recoverable coal reserves. At 33.6 billion tonnes the reserves represent 3.8 per cent of global total reserves. (2013). In 2013, the country produced 58.4 million tones. Coal production stands at 70 per cent of what it was during the Soviet Union. The largest coal producer is Bogatyr Coal that operates the largest 4.5 billion tons open-pit coal mine in the world in Ekibastuz in the northeastern region of Kazakhstan. In 2012 Bogatyr Coal produced 46 million tons of coal.\n\nMajority of coal, 75 percent, is used for domestic consumption, power generation in particular. The largest importers of Kazakhstan’s oil include the neighboring southern Russia and Ukraine.\n\nA major concern of the coal mines of Kazakhstan is safety and prevention and control of mine explosions.\n\nIn 2009 Kazakhstan was 8. top coal producer: 96 million tonnes hard coal and 5 million tonnes brown coal. 22 Mt of hard coal was exported (2009). In 2009 Kazakhstan was world 8. top coal exporter. The top hard coal net exporters in 2009 were (Mt): Australia 262, Indonesia 230, Russia 93, Colombia 69, South Africa 67, United States 33, Vietnam 25, Kazakhstan 22, Canada 20 and Czech Republic 4.\nThe coal of Kazakhstan has low energy value 0.444 toe/tonne compared to e.g. in this respect top coal of Australia 0.689 toe/tonne.\n\nAssuming both hard coal 96 Mt and brown coal 6 Mt having about the same energy value,: the coal production would have been about 101 Mt*0.444 toe/Mt*11.630 TWh/toe = 521 TWh in 2009 and export .22*0.444 toe/Mt*11.630 TWh/toe = 114 TWh.\n\nIn 2013, the country produced 93.76 billion kWH - 70 billion kWh (81%) from coal, 8 from gas and 8 from hydro. The country has 71 power stations, including 5 hydro power plants located on the Irtysh river, which translates to total installed generating capacity of 19.6 GW. 75 per cent of electricity generated is consumed by industry, 11 per cent by households, 2 per cent by transportation.\n\nKazakhstan largest solar power station \"Burboye Solar-1\" LLP was commissioned in July 2015. Since then during a year of operation the solar power station produced over 38.4 million kWh. Besides \"Burboye Solar-1,\" the Zhambyl region implements nine projects of alternative energy sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "10477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10477", "title": "Eos", "text": "Eos\n\nIn Greek mythology, Eos (; Ionic and Homeric Greek \"Ēōs\", Attic \"Éōs\", \"dawn\", or ; Aeolic \"Aúōs\", Doric \"Āṓs\") is a Titaness and the goddess of the dawn, who rose each morning from her home at the edge of the Oceanus.\n\nEos had a brother and a sister, Helios, god of the sun, and Selene, goddess of the moon.\n\nEos is cognate to the Vedic goddess \"Ushas\", Lithuanian goddess \"Aušrinė\", and Roman goddess \"Aurora\" (Old Latin \"Ausosa\"), all three of whom are also goddesses of the dawn. All four are considered derivatives of the Proto-Indo-European stem \"*h₂ewsṓs\" (later *\"Ausṓs\"), \"dawn\", a stem that also gave rise to Proto-Germanic \"*Austrō\", Old Germanic \"*Ōstara\" and Old English \"Ēostre / Ēastre\". This agreement leads to the reconstruction of a Proto-Indo-European dawn goddess.\n\nThere are no known temples, shrines or altars to Eos. However, Ovid seems to allude to the existence of at least two shrines of Eos, as he describes them in plural, albeit few, in the lines: \nOvid may therefore have known of at least two such shrines.\n\nThe dawn goddess Eos was almost always described with rosy fingers (ῥοδοδάκτυλος, \"rhododáktylos\") or rosy forearms (ῥοδόπηχυς, \"rhodópēkhys\") as she opened the gates of heaven for the Sun to rise. In Homer, her saffron-coloured robe is embroidered or woven with flowers; rosy-fingered and with golden arms, she is pictured on Attic vases as a beautiful woman, crowned with a tiara or diadem and with the large white-feathered wings of a bird.\n\nFrom \"The Iliad\":\n\nQuintus Smyrnaeus pictured her exulting in her heart over the radiant horses (Lampus and Phaëton) that drew her chariot, amidst the bright-haired Horae, the feminine Hours, climbing the arc of heaven and scattering sparks of fire.\n\nShe is most often associated with her Homeric epithet \"rosy-fingered\" (\"rhododactylos\"), but Homer also calls her Eos Erigeneia:\nHesiod wrote:\nThus Eos, preceded by the Morning Star, is seen as the genetrix of all the stars and planets; her tears are considered to have created the morning dew, personified as Ersa or Herse (Ovid, Metamorphoses 13.621-2).\nEos is the daughter of Hyperion, a bringer of light, the \"One Above, Who Travels High Above the Earth\" and \"of Theia, The Divine\". Her brother was the Sun god Helios, and her sister was Selene, the Moon goddess. Her team of horses pull her chariot across the sky and are named in the Odyssey as \"Firebright\" and \"Daybright\".\n\nShe was the Mother of several notable offspring, including the Winds, Zephyrus, Boreas, and Notus, and the Morning Star, Eosphoros, all of whom she bore to the Titan Astraeus (\"of the Stars\"), and Memnon, her son by Tithonus.\n\nThis rosy-fingered, saffron-robed and golden-throned goddess, who goes up to Olympus to announce the light to the immortals, fell in love several times, and some say it was Aphrodite who cursed her to be perpetually in love, because once had Eos lain with Aphrodite's sweetheart Ares, the god of war.\n\nEos is the daughter of Hyperion and Theia and sister of Helios the sun and Selene the moon, \"who shine upon all that are on earth and upon the deathless gods who live in the wide heaven\" Hesiod told in \"Theogony\" (371-374). The generation of Titans preceded all the familiar deities of Olympus who largely supplanted them.\n\nAccording to Pseudo-Apollodorus, Eos consorted with the war god Ares and was thereupon cursed with unsatisfiable sexual desire by the jealous Aphrodite. This caused her to abduct a number of handsome young men, most notably Cephalus, Tithonus, Orion, and Cleitus. The good-looking Cleitus was made immortal by her. She also asked for Tithonus to be made immortal, but forgot to ask for eternal youth, which resulted in him living forever as a helpless old man.\n\nAccording to Hesiod by Tithonus Eos had two sons, Memnon and Emathion. Memnon fought among the Trojans in the Trojan War and was slain. Her image with the dead Memnon across her knees, like Thetis with the dead Achilles are icons that inspired the Christian Pietà .\n\nThe abduction of Cephalus had special appeal for an Athenian audience because Cephalus was a local boy, and so this myth element appeared frequently in Attic vase-paintings and was exported with them. In the literary myths Eos kidnapped Cephalus when he was hunting and took him to Syria.\n\nThe second-century CE traveller Pausanias was informed that the abductor of Cephalus was Hemera, goddess of Day. Although Cephalus was already married to Procris, Eos bore him three sons, including Phaeton and Hesperus, but he then began pining for Procris, causing a disgruntled Eos to return him to her and put a curse on them.\n\nIn Hyginus' report, Cephalus accidentally killed Procris some time later after he mistook her for an animal while hunting.\n\nIn Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" VII, Procris, a jealous wife, was spying on him and heard him singing to the wind, but thought he was serenading his ex-lover Eos.\n\nAmong the Etruscans, the generative dawn-goddess was Thesan. Depictions of the dawn-goddess with a young lover became popular in Etruria in the fifth century, probably inspired by imported Greek vase-painting. Though Etruscans preferred to show the goddess as a nurturer (\"Kourotrophos\") rather than an abductor of young men, the late Archaic sculptural acroterion from Etruscan Cære, now in Berlin, showing the goddess in archaic running pose adapted from the Greeks, and bearing a boy in her arms, has commonly been identified as Eos and Cephalus. On an Etruscan mirror Thesan is shown carrying off a young man, whose name is inscribed as Tinthu</small>.\n\nThe Roman equivalent of Eos is Aurora, also a cognate showing the characteristic Latin rhotacism. Dawn became associated in Roman cult with Matuta, later known as Mater Matuta. She was also associated with the sea harbors and ports, and had a temple on the Forum Boarium. On June 11, the Matralia was celebrated at that temple in honor of Mater Matuta; this festival was only for women during their first marriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35887289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35887289", "title": "Eta Hydri", "text": "Eta Hydri\n\nThe Bayer designation Eta Hydri (η Hyi / η Hydri) is shared by two stars, in the constellation Hydrus:\n"}
{"id": "40038536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40038536", "title": "European Storm Forecast Experiment", "text": "European Storm Forecast Experiment\n\nThe European Storm Forecast Experiment, known as ESTOFEX, is an initiative of a team of European meteorologists, and students in meteorology founded in 2002. It serves as a platform for exchange of knowledge about forecasting severe convective storms in Europe and elsewhere. It is a voluntary organisation and is currently unfunded. It aims to raise awareness and provide real-time education about severe weather forecasting.\nIt issues storm warnings on a daily basis. It also collects reports from the general public about severe convective weather incidents in order to validate its forecasts.\nESTOFEX forecasts are published under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 license.\n\nIts definitions of severe convective weather phenomena are one or several of the following :\n\nsevere: \n\nextremely severe :\n\n"}
{"id": "2561255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2561255", "title": "Exploration geophysics", "text": "Exploration geophysics\n\nExploration geophysics is an applied branch of geophysics, which uses physical methods, such as seismic, gravitational, magnetic, electrical and electromagnetic at the surface of the Earth to measure the physical properties of the subsurface, along with the anomalies in those properties. It is most often used to detect or infer the presence and position of economically useful geological deposits, such as ore minerals; fossil fuels and other hydrocarbons; geothermal reservoirs; and groundwater reservoirs.\n\nExploration geophysics can be used to directly detect the target style of mineralization, via measuring its physical properties directly. For example, one may measure the density contrasts between the dense iron ore and the lighter silicate host rock, or one may measure the electrical conductivity contrast between conductive sulfide minerals and the resistive silicate host rock.\n\nThe main techniques used are:\n\n\nMany other techniques, or methods of integration of the above techniques, have been developed and are currently used. However these are not as common due to cost-effectiveness, wide applicability and/or uncertainty in the results produced.\n\nExploration geophysics is also used to map the subsurface structure of a region, to elucidate the underlying structures, spatial distribution of rock units, and to detect structures such as faults, folds and intrusive rocks. This is an indirect method for assessing the likelihood of ore deposits or hydrocarbon accumulations.\n\nMethods devised for finding mineral or hydrocarbon deposits can also be used in other areas such as monitoring environmental impact, imaging subsurface archaeological sites, ground water investigations, subsurface salinity mapping, civil engineering site investigations and interplanetary imaging.\n\nMagnetometric surveys can be useful in defining magnetic anomalies which represent ore (direct detection), or in some cases gangue minerals associated with ore deposits (indirect or inferential detection).\n\nThe most direct method of detection of ore via magnetism involves detecting iron ore mineralisation via mapping magnetic anomalies associated with banded iron formations which usually contain magnetite in some proportion. Skarn mineralisation, which often contains magnetite, can also be detected though the ore minerals themselves would be non-magnetic. Similarly, magnetite, hematite and often pyrrhotite are common minerals associated with hydrothermal alteration, and this alteration can be detected to provide an inference that some mineralising hydrothermal event has affected the rocks.\n\nGravity surveying can be used to detect dense bodies of rocks within host formations of less dense wall rocks. This can be used to directly detect Mississippi Valley Type ore deposits, IOCG ore deposits, iron ore deposits, skarn deposits and salt diapirs which can form oil and gas traps.\n\nElectromagnetic (EM) surveys can be used to help detect a wide variety of mineral deposits, especially base metal sulphides via detection of conductivity anomalies which can be generated around sulphide bodies in the subsurface. EM surveys are also used in diamond exploration (where the kimberlite pipes tend to have lower resistance than enclosing rocks), graphite exploration, palaeochannel-hosted uranium deposits (which are associated with shallow aquifers, which often respond to EM surveys in conductive overburden). These are indirect inferential methods of detecting mineralisation, as the commodity being sought is not directly conductive, or not sufficiently conductive to be measurable. EM surveys are also used in unexploded ordnance, archaeological, and geotechnical investigations.\n\nRegional EM surveys are conducted via airborne methods, using either fixed-wing aircraft or helicopter-borne EM rigs. Surface EM methods are based mostly on Transient EM methods using surface loops with a surface receiver, or a downhole tool lowered into a borehole which transects a body of mineralisation. These methods can map out sulphide bodies within the earth in 3 dimensions, and provide information to geologists to direct further exploratory drilling on known mineralisation. Surface loop surveys are rarely used for regional exploration, however in some cases such surveys can be used with success (e.g.; SQUID surveys for nickel ore bodies).\n\nElectric-resistance methods such as induced polarization methods can be useful for directly detecting sulfide bodies, coal and resistive rocks such as salt and carbonates.\n\nSeismic reflection techniques are the most widely used geophysical technique in hydrocarbon exploration. They are used to map the subsurface distribution of stratigraphy and its structure which can be used to delineate potential hydrocarbon accumulations. Well logging is another widely used technique as it provides necessary high resolution information about rock and fluid properties in a vertical section, although they are limited in areal extent. This limitation in areal extent is the reason why seismic reflection techniques are so popular; they provide a method for interpolating and extrapolating well log information over a much larger area.\n\nGravity and magnetics are also used, with considerable frequency, in oil and gas exploration. These can be used to determine the geometry and depth of covered geological structures including uplifts, subsiding basins, faults, folds, igneous intrusions and salt diapirs due to their unique density and magnetic susceptibility signatures compared to the surrounding rocks.\n\nRemote sensing techniques, specifically hyperspectral imaging, have been used to detect hydrocarbon microseepages using the spectral signature of geochemically altered soils and vegetation.\n\nSpecifically at sea, two methods are used: marine seismic reflection and electromagnetic seabed logging (SBL).Marine Magnetotellurics (mMT) or marine Controlled Source Electro-Magnetics (mCSEM) can provide pseudo-direct detection of hydrocarbons by detecting resistivity changes over geological traps (signaled by seismic survey), then minimizing the number of wellcats.\n\nGround penetrating radar is a non-invasive technique, and is used within civil construction and engineering for a variety of uses, including detection of utilities (buried water, gas, sewerage, electrical and telecommunication cables), mapping of soft soils and overburden for geotechnical characterization, and other similar uses.\n\nThe Spectral-Analysis-of-Surface-Waves (SASW) method is another non-invasive technique, which is widely used in practice to image the shear wave velocity profile of the soil. The SASW method relies on the dispersive nature of Raleigh waves in layered media, i.e., the wave-velocity depends on the load's frequency. A material profile, based on the SASW method, is thus obtained according to: a) constructing an experimental dispersion curve, by performing field experiments, each time using a different loading frequency, and measuring the surface wave-speed for each frequency; b) constructing a theoretical dispersion curve, by assuming a trial distribution for the material properties of a layered profile; c) varying the material properties of the layered profile, and repeating the previous step, until a match between the experimental dispersion curve, and the theoretical dispersion curve is attained. The SASW method renders a layered (one-dimensional) shear wave velocity profile for the soil.\n\nFull-waveform-inversion (FWI) methods are among the most recent techniques for geotechnical site characterization, and are still under continuous development. The method is fairly general, and is capable of imaging the arbitrarily heterogeneous compressional and shear wave velocity profiles of the soil.\n\nElastic waves are used to probe the site under investigation, by placing seismic vibrators on the ground surface. These waves propagate through the soil, and due to the heterogeneous geological structure of the site under investigation, multiple reflections and refractions occur. The response of the site to the seismic vibrator is measured by sensors (geophones), also placed on the ground surface. Two key-components are required for the profiling based on full-waveform inversion. These components are: a) a computer model for the simulation of elastic waves in semi-infinite domains; and b) an optimization framework, through which the computed response is matched to the measured response, via iteratively updating an initially assumed material distribution for the soil.\n\nCivil engineering can also use remote sensing information for topographical mapping, planning and environmental impact assessment. Airborne electromagnetic surveys are also used to characterize soft sediments in planning and engineering roads, dams and other structures.\n\nMagnetotellurics has proven useful for delineating groundwater reservoirs, mapping faults around areas where hazardous substances are stored (e.g. nuclear power stations and nuclear waste storage facilities), and earthquake precursor monitoring in areas with major structures such as hydro-electric dams subject to high levels of seismic activity.\n\nBS 5930 is the standard used in the UK as a code of practice for site investigations.\n\nGround penetrating radar can be used to map buried artifacts, such as graves, mortuaries, wreck sites, and other shallowly buried archaeological sites.\n\nGround magnetometric surveys can be used for detecting buried ferrous metals, useful in surveying shipwrecks, modern battlefields strewn with metal debris, and even subtle disturbances such as large-scale ancient ruins.\n\nSonar systems can be used to detect shipwrecks.\n\nGround penetrating radar can be used to detect grave sites.\n\nMagnetic and electromagnetic surveys can be used to locate unexploded ordnance.\n\n"}
{"id": "50937084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50937084", "title": "Feolite", "text": "Feolite\n\nFeolite is a type of iron oxide sintered into building blocks, which are then used for heat storage.\n\nFeolite was developed in Great Britain.\n\nFeolite, one of many materials used for heat storage, being a solid, does not have any volumetric or pressure containment issues, but correspondingly does require the use of a transfer medium to then get the stored heat to the desired location.\n\nThe specific heat of feolite is 920.0 J·kg·°C, its density is 3,900 kg·m, and its thermal conductivity is 2.1 W·m·°C.\n\nFeolite may be used at temperatures up to 1000 °C.\n\nFeolite was invented in 1969 by Electricity Association Technology, then called Electricity Council Research Centre.\n\nFeolite was a in Australia for all iron oxides for use in the manufacture of thermal storage units which has now lapsed, by Electricity Association Technology of the United Kingdom.\n\nHeating systems with a storage component now widely use feolite as the storage core.\n\nBlocks of feolite enclosing sheathed electric heating elements to form a heat storage core, surrounded by thermal insulation, are used in storage heaters and storage radiators. Because feolite blocks will conduct electricity, electric heating elements must be electrically insulated when used with feolite storage.\n\nThe typical heat exchange medium for feolite storage is air.\n\nFeolite has been considered for use as a component for braking systems in railway rolling stock.\n"}
{"id": "2554979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2554979", "title": "Geothermal gradient", "text": "Geothermal gradient\n\nGeothermal gradient is the rate of increasing temperature with respect to increasing depth in the Earth's interior. Away from tectonic plate boundaries, it is about 25–30 °C/km (72-87 °F/mi) of depth near the surface in most of the world. Strictly speaking, \"geo\"-thermal necessarily refers to the Earth but the concept may be applied to other planets. \n\nThe Earth's internal heat comes from a combination of residual heat from planetary accretion, heat produced through radioactive decay, latent heat from core crystallization, and possibly heat from other sources. The major heat-producing isotopes in the Earth are potassium-40, uranium-238, uranium-235, and thorium-232. At the center of the planet, the temperature may be up to 7,000 K and the pressure could reach 360 GPa (3.6 million atm). Because much of the heat is provided by radioactive decay, scientists believe that early in Earth history, before isotopes with short half-lives had been depleted, Earth's heat production would have been much higher. Heat production was twice that of present-day at approximately 3 billion years ago, resulting in larger temperature gradients within the Earth, larger rates of mantle convection and plate tectonics, allowing the production of igneous rocks such as komatiites that are no longer formed.\n\nTemperature within the Earth increases with depth. Highly viscous or partially molten rock at temperatures between are found at the margins of tectonic plates, increasing the geothermal gradient in the vicinity, but only the outer core is postulated to exist in a molten or fluid state, and the temperature at the Earth's inner core/outer core boundary, around deep, is estimated to be 5650 ± 600 Kelvin. The heat content of the Earth is 10 joules.\nIn Earth's continental crust, the decay of natural radioactive isotopes makes a significant contribution to geothermal heat production. The continental crust is abundant in lower density minerals but also contains significant concentrations of heavier lithophilic minerals such as uranium. Because of this, it holds the most concentrated global reservoir of radioactive elements found in the Earth. Especially in layers closer to Earth's surface, naturally occurring isotopes are enriched in the granite and basaltic rocks. These high levels of radioactive elements are largely excluded from the Earth's mantle due to their inability to substitute in mantle minerals and consequent enrichment in melts during mantle melting processes. The mantle is mostly made up of high density minerals with higher concentrations of elements that have relatively small atomic radii such as magnesium (Mg), titanium (Ti), and calcium (Ca).\n\nThe geothermal gradient is steeper in the lithosphere than in the mantle because the mantle transports heat primarily by convection, leading to a geothermal gradient that is determined by the mantle adiabat, rather than by the conductive heat transfer processes that predominate in the lithosphere, which acts as a thermal boundary layer of the convecting mantle.\n\nHeat flows constantly from its sources within the Earth to the surface. Total heat loss from the Earth is estimated at 44.2 TW (). Mean heat flow is 65 mW/m over continental crust and 101 mW/m over oceanic crust. This is 0.087 watt/square meter on average (0.03 percent of solar power absorbed by the Earth ), but is much more concentrated in areas where the lithosphere is thin, such as along mid-ocean ridges (where new oceanic lithosphere is created) and near mantle plumes.\nThe Earth's crust effectively acts as a thick insulating blanket which must be pierced by fluid conduits (of magma, water or other) in order to release the heat underneath. More of the heat in the Earth is lost through plate tectonics, by mantle upwelling associated with mid-ocean ridges. The final major mode of heat loss is by conduction through the lithosphere, the majority of which occurs in the oceans due to the crust there being much thinner and younger than under the continents.\n\nThe heat of the Earth is replenished by radioactive decay at a rate of 30 TW. The global geothermal flow rates are more than twice the rate of human energy consumption from all primary sources.\n\nHeat from Earth's interior can be used as an energy source, known as geothermal energy. The geothermal gradient has been used for space heating and bathing since ancient Roman times, and more recently for generating electricity. As the human population continues to grow, so does energy use and the correlating environmental impacts that are consistent with global primary sources of energy. This has caused a growing interest in finding sources of energy that are renewable and have reduced greenhouse gas emissions. In areas of high geothermal energy density, current technology allows for the generation of electrical power because of the corresponding high temperatures. Generating electrical power from geothermal resources requires no fuel while providing true baseload energy at a reliability rate that constantly exceeds 90%. In order to extract geothermal energy, it is necessary to efficiently transfer heat from a geothermal reservoir to a power plant, where electrical energy is converted from heat by passing steam through a turbine connected to a generator. On a worldwide scale, the heat stored in Earth's interior provides an energy that is still seen as an exotic source. About 10 GW of geothermal electric capacity is installed around the world as of 2007, generating 0.3% of global electricity demand. An additional 28 GW of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications. \n\nThe geothermal gradient varies with location and is typically measured by determining the bottom open-hole temperature after borehole drilling. To achieve accuracy the drilling fluid needs time to reach the ambient temperature. This is not always achievable for practical reasons.\n\nIn stable tectonic areas in the tropics a temperature-depth plot will converge to the annual average surface temperature. However, in areas where deep permafrost developed during the Pleistocene a low temperature anomaly can be observed that persists down to several hundred metres. The Suwałki cold anomaly in Poland has led to the recognition that similar thermal disturbances related to Pleistocene-Holocene climatic changes are recorded in boreholes throughout Poland, as well as in Alaska, northern Canada, and Siberia.\nIn areas of Holocene uplift and erosion (Fig. 1) the shallow gradient will be high until it reaches an inflection point where it reaches the stabilized heat-flow regime. If the gradient of the stabilized regime is projected above the inflection point to its intersect with present-day annual average temperature, the height of this intersect above present-day surface level gives a measure of the extent of Holocene uplift and erosion. In areas of Holocene subsidence and deposition (Fig. 2) the initial gradient will be lower than the average until it reaches an inflection point where it joins the stabilized heat-flow regime.\n\nIn deep boreholes, the temperature of the rock below the inflection point generally increases with depth at rates of the order of 20 K/km or more. Fourier's law of heat flow applied to the Earth gives \"q\" = \"Mg\" where \"q\" is the heat flux at a point on the Earth's surface, \"M\" the thermal conductivity of the rocks there, and \"g\" the measured geothermal gradient. A representative value for the thermal conductivity of granitic rocks is \"M\" = 3.0 W/mK. Hence, using the global average geothermal conducting gradient of 0.02 K/m we get that \"q\" = 0.06 W/m². This estimate, corroborated by thousands of observations of heat flow in boreholes all over the world, gives a global average of 6×10 W/m². Thus, if the geothermal heat flow rising through an acre of granite terrain could be efficiently captured, it would light four 60 watt light bulbs.\n\nA variation in surface temperature induced by climate changes and the Milankovitch cycle can penetrate below the Earth's surface and produce an oscillation in the geothermal gradient with periods varying from daily to tens of thousands of years and an amplitude which decreases with depth and having a scale depth of several kilometers. Melt water from the polar ice caps flowing along ocean bottoms tends to maintain a constant geothermal gradient throughout the Earth's surface.\n\nIf the rate of temperature increase with depth observed in shallow boreholes were to persist at greater depths, temperatures deep within the Earth would soon reach the point where rocks would melt. We know, however, that the Earth's mantle is solid because of the transmission of S-waves. The temperature gradient dramatically decreases with depth for two reasons. First, the mechanism of thermal transport changes from conduction, as within the rigid tectonic plates, to convection, in the portion of Earth's mantle that convects. Despite its solidity, most of the Earth's mantle behaves over long time-scales as a fluid, and heat is transported by advection, or material transport. Second, radioactive heat production is concentrated within the crust of the Earth, and particularly within the upper part of the crust, as concentrations of uranium, thorium, and potassium are highest there: these three elements are the main producers of radioactive heat within the Earth. Thus, the geothermal gradient within the bulk of Earth's mantle is of the order of 0.5 kelvin per kilometer, and is determined by the adiabatic gradient associated with mantle material (peridotite in the upper mantle).\n\n"}
{"id": "32325008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32325008", "title": "HT (vacuum tube)", "text": "HT (vacuum tube)\n\nIn vacuum tube technology, HT or high tension describes the main power supply to the circuit, which produces the current between anode and cathode. It is also known as the plate supply or voltage, B battery supply, or simply labeled ->B on circuit diagrams, from the days of battery powered circuitry.\n\nThe HT supply circuit most commonly provides a positive voltage of some hundreds of volts to the anode (or \"plate\") and in later circuits also to the screen grid, with the cathode running at near ground or chassis potential. The main exception to this was in the case of tubes with water-cooled anodes, once used for radio transmission, electric furnaces and similar applications. These tubes used a negative HT supply to the cathode, so that the anode could run near ground DC potential (but typically at many hundreds of volts of RF).\n\nOther power supplies to vacuum tube circuits include:\n\n\nThe HT supply was usually obtained from a full wave rectifier circuit similar to the one shown. In those sets that had no mains transformer (the so-called AC/DC design), the HT was obtained directly from the mains supply, either with a simple half wave rectifier or with a voltage doubler circuit.\n\nIn very early vacuum tube television sets, the EHT was derived directly from a high voltage winding on the mains transformer using a half wave recitifier. In later television sets, the EHT supply was invariably generated by rectifying the flyback pulses from the scanning circuitry rather than directly from the mains supply (a practice that survived the transition to transistor circuits). Although this provided a greater degree of safety, the reason for the change was that the mains transformer had been eliminated from sets produced from the 1940s onwards.\n\n"}
{"id": "434140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=434140", "title": "Hulder", "text": "Hulder\n\nA hulder is a seductive forest creature found in Scandinavian folklore. (Her name derives from a root meaning \"covered\" or \"secret\".) In Norwegian folklore, she is known as huldra (\"the [archetypal] hulder\", though folklore presupposes that there is an entire Hulder race and not just a single individual). She is known as the skogsrå \"forest spirit\" or Tallemaja \"pine tree Mary\" in Swedish folklore, and ulda in Sámi folklore. Her name suggests that she is originally the same being as the völva divine figure Huld and the German Holda.\n\nThe word hulder is only used of a female; a \"male hulder\" is called a \"huldrekall\" and also appears in Norwegian folklore. This being is closely related to other underground dwellers, usually called \"tusser\" (sg., \"tusse\"). Whereas the female hulder is almost invariably described as incredible, seductive and beautiful, the males of the same race are often said to be hideous, with grotesquely long noses.\n\nThe hulder is one of several \"rå\" (keeper, warden), including the aquatic \"sjörå\" or \"havsfru\", later identified with a mermaid, and the \"bergsrå\" in caves and mines who made life tough for the poor miners.\n\nMore information can be found in the collected Norwegian folktales of Peter Christen Asbjørnsen and Jørgen Moe.\n\nThe hulders were held to be kind to charcoal burners, watching their charcoal kilns while they rested. Knowing that she would wake them if there were any problems, they were able to sleep, and in exchange they left provisions for her in a special place. A tale from Närke illustrates further how kind a hulder could be, especially if treated with respect (Hellström 1985:15).\n\nAssociated with Christianity, a tale recounts how a woman had washed only half of her children when God came to her cottage; ashamed of the dirty ones, she hid them. God decreed that those she had hidden from him would be hidden from humanity; they became the hulders.\n\nA multitude of places in Scandinavia are named after the Hulders, often places by legend associated with the presence of the \"hidden folk\". Here are some examples showing the wide distribution of Hulder-related toponyms between the northern and southern reaches of Scandinavia, and the terms usage in different language groups' toponyms.\n\n\n\n\nThe hulder may be connected with the German \"holda\".\n"}
{"id": "56626151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56626151", "title": "Hylas and the Nymphs (painting)", "text": "Hylas and the Nymphs (painting)\n\nHylas and the Nymphs is an 1896 oil painting by John William Waterhouse. The painting depicts a moment from the Greek and Roman legend of the tragic youth Hylas, based on accounts by Ovid and other ancient writers, in which the enraptured Hylas is abducted by Naiads (female water nymphs) while seeking drinking water. The painting has been interpreted as a metaphor for dangerous female sexuality, and warning against nymphomania.\n\nHylas was the son of King Theiodamas of the Dryopians. After Hercules killed Hylas's father, Hylas became a companion of Hercules and later his lover. They both became Argonauts, accompanying Jason in his quest on his ship \"Argo\" in seeking the Golden Fleece. During the journey, Hylas was sent to find fresh water. He found a pond occupied by Naiads, and they lured Hylas into the water and he disappeared.\n\nThe painting measures . It depicts Hylas, a male youth in classical garb, wearing a blue tunic with a red sash, and bearing a wide-necked water jar. He is bending down beside a pond in a glade of lush green foliage, reaching out towards seven young women, the water nymphs, who are emerging from the pond among the leaves and flowers of Nymphaeaceae (water lilies), including an early depiction of the yellow waterlily, Nuphar lutea). The nymphs are naked, their alabaster skin luminous in the dark but clear water, with yellow and white flowers in their auburn hair. They have very similar physical features, perhaps based on just two models.\n\nHylas is being enticed to enter the water, from which he will not return. One of the nymph holds his wrist and elbow, a second plucks at his tunic, and a third holds out some pearls in the palm of her hand. The face of Hylas in profile is shadowed and barely visible, but the faces of the nymphs are clearly visible as they gaze upon him. The scene is depicted from a slightly elevated position, looking down at the water like Hylas, so no sky is visible. Hylas's position forces the viewer's focus onto the nymphs in the water and the lack of reference to his relationship with Hercules emphasizes that the narrative of the painting is not about Hylas narrative, but about the sinister nature of the nymphs.\n\nSome of Waterhouse's preparatory sketches are in the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford.\n\nHylas was a recurrent theme for British artists in the 19th and early 20th centuries, with examples by William Etty (1833) and Henrietta Rae (1910), and an earlier example by Waterhouse himself (1893). Waterhouse also painted other tragic youths from Greek legend, such as Narcissus in \"Echo and Narcissus\" (1903) (at the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool). His poem \"Hercules and Hylas\" was published by Francis Burdett Thomas Coutts-Nevill in 1896.\n\nThe painting was acquired from the artist by the Manchester Art Gallery in 1896. It was exhibited at the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition in 1897.\n\nIt was removed from display in gallery 10, \"In Pursuit of Beauty\", in early 2018 \"to prompt conversations about how we display and interpret artworks in Manchester's public collection\". Visitors to the gallery were invited to fill the empty space left on the wall with sticky notes giving their reaction. After an outcry, it was returned to the gallery after an absence of a few days.\n\n"}
{"id": "32295179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32295179", "title": "Imogolite", "text": "Imogolite\n\nImogolite is an aluminium silicate clay mineral with formula: AlSiO(OH). It occurs in soils formed from volcanic ash and was first described in 1962 for an occurrence in Uemura, Kumamoto prefecture, Kyushu Region, Japan. Its name is derived from the Japanese \"imogo\" for the brownish yellow soil derived from volcanic ash. It occurs with allophane, quartz, cristobalite, gibbsite, vermiculite and limonite.\n"}
{"id": "3964732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3964732", "title": "Ionic potential", "text": "Ionic potential\n\nIonic potential is the ratio of electric charge to the radius of an ion.\n\nAs such, the proportion measures the charge density at the surface of the ion; usually the denser the charge, the stronger will be the bond that the ion forms.\n\nThe ionic potential gives the sense of how strongly or weakly the ion will be attracted, electrostatically, to ions of opposite charge; and to what extent the ion will repel other ions of like charge.\n\nIt measures the polarising power of a cation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2544286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2544286", "title": "Jon Sanders", "text": "Jon Sanders\n\nJon Sanders (born 1939 in Perth, Western Australia) is an Australian yachtsman.\n\nJonathan William Sanders grew up in Perth and in his teens and twenties, worked with shearing teams for 17 years. Initially he was a wool classer/shearing contractor, shearing team overseer and later owner of his own shearing team. He is characterised by his well-built stature and his shy and reserved demeanour and is a close friend and mentor of fellow Western Australian solo-sailor David Dicks.\n\nJon Sanders was the first man to circumnavigate Antarctica solo, circling the continent twice in 1981 – 1982. For this accomplishment, Gate 17 of the new Antarctica Cup Racetrack has been named after him, with sector 17 named after the S&S 34 monohull \"Perie Banou,\" the yacht he had used during the circumnavigation. Sanders Gate is positioned mid-way round the Indian Ocean zone; the gate is close to where Sanders suffered a 180-degree knockdown. During the voyage, he passed south of the three great capes: Horn, Good Hope and Leeuwin, before rounding Cape Horn a second time. He turned north to Plymouth, UK and returning south around Good Hope and returning to Fremantle.\n\nThis voyage was recognised in the \"Guinness Book of Records\" through the following records:\n\n\nIn 1986 Sanders set out again from Fremantle, and this time completed three solo non-stop circumnavigations aboard his yacht \"Parry Endeavour\", rounding Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago just north of the Equator each time to ensure that his course covered both hemispheres.\n\nBob Williams, the Chairman of Antarctica Cup Management and the Antarctica Cup Ocean Race, says: \"What Jon achieved during his double circumnavigation in 1981/82 was truly remarkable, given the technology available at the time and size of his yacht. I have had the greatest respect for Jon ever since watching him set off in a full gale off Plymouth at the start of the Parmelia Race in 1979 and was very pleased to be a contributing sponsor for his next yacht \"Parry Endeavour\" in 1986/87. His achievement is an inspiration to all long distance ocean racing sailors and we are very happy to honour Jon now by naming this Gate 17 Sanders Gate and Sector 17 after his yacht \"Perie Banou\"\"\n\nOn 2 November 2016, Sanders set out from Carnarvon, Western Australia on his tenth circumnavigation, which he completed on 20 December 2017. A live tracker of his progress is available here\n\n\"Parry Endeavour\" is now in the WA Maritime Museum, in Freemantle, Western Australia.\n\nSanders was made an Officer in the Order of the British Empire for sailing in the 1983 New Year's Honours. He was made an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) in the 1989 Australia Day Honours for \"service to sailing and to marine science\".\n\nSanders was inducted into the Single-Handed Sailor's Hall of Fame in Newport, Rhode Island, USA in 1991.\n\nSanders' records include: (From S-HSoF website)\n\nA road in Osborne Park, Western Australia bears his name in honour of his sailing accomplishments.\n\n"}
{"id": "44519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44519", "title": "List of National Parks of Canada", "text": "List of National Parks of Canada\n\nCanada's National Parks are protected areas under the \"Canada National Parks Act\", owned by the Government of Canada and administered for the benefit, education, and enjoyment of the people of Canada and its future generations. National parks are administered by Parks Canada, a Crown agency operating under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environment and Climate Change. The goal of the national parks system is to set aside lands representing the country's 39 distinct natural regions described in the \"National Parks System Plan\", primarily to protect the ecological integrity of the land, and secondarily to allow the public to explore, learn about and enjoy Canada's natural spaces.\n\nCanada's first national park was created in 1885 through an Order-in-Council to reserve over the Cave and Basin Hot Springs to prevent the land from being sold for private development despite claims being made for it. Modeled after the American experience with Yellowstone National Park, the \"Rocky Mountains Park Act\", adopted in 1887, established the Rocky Mountains Park (now Banff National Park). The idea of a national park was popular and led to numerous proposals for the Ministry of the Interior to consider, including additional sites along the Canadian Pacific Railway (e.g. Yoho and Glacier and an expansion of Banff) and the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway (e.g. Jasper). In 1911 the \"Rocky Mountains Park Act\" was replaced by the \"Dominion Forest Reserves and Parks Act\" which created the world's first national parks service, the Dominion Parks Branch, to administer national parks in Canada. These early national parks, including those established under the leadership of JB Harkin who was the first commissioner of the Dominion Parks Branch, were set aside to reserve lands principally for tourism and conservation but also had an exclusionary policy prohibiting First Nations peoples from using their traditional lands within the new parks. In 1922, Wood Buffalo National Park was the first to allow traditional indigenous activities to continue. In 1972, Parks Canada defined National Park Reserves, lands administered by the agency intended to become National Parks pending settlement of indigenous land rights and agreements for continued traditional use of the lands.\n\nNational Park Reserves are indicated by \"(Reserve)\" after the park name.\n\nThe following are areas which Parks Canada is in the process of evaluating as potential parks. While they may be reserved from alienation or have federal-provincial/territorial agreements, they have not been formally established through legislation as parks.\nNational Marine Conservation Areas (NMCAs) are a relatively new invention in the park system. The goal of the NMCA system is to preserve areas representing Canada's 29 marine regions as identified by Parks Canada. They are designed for sustainable use, although they usually also contain areas designed to protect ecological integrity. Lake Superior National Marine Conservation Area, created in 2015, is the only unit that uses this designation in its name. Fathom Five National Marine Park was created in 1987, prior to the NMCA concept, and subsequently classified as an NMCA without changing its legal name. Saguenay–St. Lawrence Marine Park is jointly administered by Parks Canada and its Quebec counterpart, Sépaq. National Marine Conservation Area Reserves are protected areas proposed to be added to the NMCA system pending settlement of indigenous land and water rights. In the interim, they are administered under park rules.\n\n, established NMCAs and NMCA Reserves protect of waters, wetlands, and coastlines, representing five of the 29 identified marine regions with studies underway for protected areas in three additional regions.\n\nIn addition to national parks, a National Landmarks program was established in 1978 but has not yet been expanded beyond a single property. Landmarks were intended to protect specific natural features considered \"outstanding, exceptional, unique, or rare to this country. These natural features would typically be isolated entities and of scientific interest.\"\n\nProvincial parks are administered and funded by the provincial governments, however some provincial parks are categorized as \"national parks\" (Category II) under the IUCN's Protected Area Management Categories.\n\nGatineau Park in Quebec is another park under the jurisdiction of the federal government. However, it is managed by the National Capital Commission, not Parks Canada, and is not considered part of the national parks system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34994666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34994666", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Newport", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Newport\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in the Newport Area of Search (AoS).\n\nThis Area of Search was formed from parts of the previous AoS of Gwent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4079830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4079830", "title": "List of edible flowers", "text": "List of edible flowers\n\nThis is a list of edible flowers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42868638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42868638", "title": "List of gas fields in Indonesia", "text": "List of gas fields in Indonesia\n\nList of gas fields in Indonesia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591474", "title": "List of stars in Cygnus", "text": "List of stars in Cygnus\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation of Cygnus, sorted by decreasing apparent magnitude.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19049028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19049028", "title": "List of the highest major summits of Canada", "text": "List of the highest major summits of Canada\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 150 highest mountain peaks of Canada with at least of topographic prominence.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nFive major Canadian summits exceed , 11 exceed elevation, 19 exceed, 41 exceed , 67 exceed, and 125 major summits exceed elevation.\n\nOf these 150 highest major summits of Canada, 102 are located in British Columbia, 37 in Yukon, 13 in Alberta, two in Nunavut, and one in the Northwest Territories. Three of these summits lie on the British Columbia-Alberta border and two lie on the British Columbia-Yukon border. Five of these summits lie on the international Yukon-Alaska border and five lie on the international British Columbia-Alaska border.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22972392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22972392", "title": "Lithospheric drip", "text": "Lithospheric drip\n\nA lithospheric drip is a geological phenomenon in which a dense and relatively cold mass of lithosphere sinks into the more fluid upper mantle. The regions of descending material have been detected by seismic tomography methods and modeled as near vertically oriented cylindrical masses within the upper mantle. The lithospheric drip discovered below the Great Basin in central Nevada has dimensions of 100 km diameter by 500 km vertical length.\n\nAnother area underlain by a descending cylindrical mass of dense lithosphere has been reported in the southwestern Sierra Nevada and portions of the San Joaquin Valley of California. Here a 100 km by 225 km mass of relatively high density (fast p wave velocity) has been discovered below an area of anomalous topography.\n"}
{"id": "19054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19054", "title": "Marble", "text": "Marble\n\nMarble is a metamorphic rock composed of recrystallized carbonate minerals, most commonly calcite or dolomite. Marble is typically not foliated, although there are exceptions. In geology, the term \"marble\" refers to metamorphosed limestone, but its use in stonemasonry more broadly encompasses unmetamorphosed limestone. Marble is commonly used for sculpture and as a building material.\n\nThe word \"marble\" derives from the Ancient Greek (), from (), \"crystalline rock, shining stone\", perhaps from the verb (), \"to flash, sparkle, gleam\"; R. S. P. Beekes has suggested that a \"Pre-Greek origin is probable.\"\nThis stem is also the ancestor of the English word \"marmoreal\", meaning \"marble-like.\" While the English term \"marble\" resembles the French , most other European languages (with words like \"marmoreal\"), more closely resemble the original Ancient Greek.\n\nMarble is a rock resulting from metamorphism of sedimentary carbonate rocks, most commonly limestone or dolomite rock. Metamorphism causes variable recrystallization of the original carbonate mineral grains. The resulting marble rock is typically composed of an interlocking mosaic of carbonate crystals. Primary sedimentary textures and structures of the original carbonate rock (protolith) have typically been modified or destroyed.\n\nPure white marble is the result of metamorphism of a very pure (silicate-poor) limestone or dolomite protolith. The characteristic swirls and veins of many colored marble varieties are usually due to various mineral impurities such as clay, silt, sand, iron oxides, or chert which were originally present as grains or layers in the limestone. Green coloration is often due to serpentine resulting from originally magnesium-rich limestone or dolostone with silica impurities. These various impurities have been mobilized and recrystallized by the intense pressure and heat of the metamorphism.\n\nExamples of historically notable marble varieties and locations:\n\nWhite marble has been prized for its use in sculptures since classical times. This preference has to do with its softness, which made it easier to carve, relative isotropy and homogeneity, and a relative resistance to shattering. Also, the low index of refraction of calcite allows light to penetrate several millimeters into the stone before being scattered out, resulting in the characteristic waxy look which gives \"life\" to marble sculptures of any kind, which is why many sculptors preferred and still prefer marble for sculpting.\n\nConstruction marble is a stone which is composed of calcite, dolomite or serpentine which is capable of taking a polish. More generally in construction, specifically the dimension stone trade, the term \"marble\" is used for any crystalline calcitic rock (and some non-calcitic rocks) useful as building stone. For example, Tennessee marble is really a dense granular fossiliferous gray to pink to maroon Ordovician limestone, that geologists call the Holston Formation.\n\nAshgabat, the capital city of Turkmenistan, was recorded in the 2013 \"Guinness Book of Records\" as having the world's highest concentration of white marble buildings.\n\nAccording to the United States Geological Survey, U.S. domestic marble production in 2006 was 46,400 tons valued at about $18.1 million, compared to 72,300 tons valued at $18.9 million in 2005. Crushed marble production (for aggregate and industrial uses) in 2006 was 11.8 million tons valued at $116 million, of which 6.5 million tons was finely ground calcium carbonate and the rest was construction aggregate. For comparison, 2005 crushed marble production was 7.76 million tons valued at $58.7 million, of which 4.8 million tons was finely ground calcium carbonate and the rest was construction aggregate. U.S. dimension marble demand is about 1.3 million tons. The DSAN World Demand for (finished) Marble Index has shown a growth of 12% annually for the 2000–2006 period, compared to 10.5% annually for the 2000–2005 period. The largest dimension marble application is tile.\n\nIn 1998, marble production was dominated by 4 countries that accounted for almost half of world production of marble and decorative stone. Italy and China were the world leaders, each representing 16% of world production, while Spain and India produced 9% and 8%, respectively. Italy is the world leader in marble export, with 20% share in global marble production, followed by China with 16%, India with 10%, Spain with 6%, and Portugal with 5%.\n\nDust produced by cutting marble could cause lung disease but more research needs to be carried out on whether dust filters and other safety products reduce this risk.\n\nThe Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has set the legal limit (permissible exposure limit) for marble exposure in the workplace as 15 mg/m total exposure and 5 mg/m respiratory exposure over an 8-hour workday. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has set a recommended exposure limit (REL) of 10 mg/m total exposure and 5 mg/m respiratory exposure over an 8-hour workday.\n\nAcids damage marble, because the calcium carbonate in marble reacts with them, releasing carbon dioxide (technically speaking, carbonic acid, but that disintegrates quickly to CO and HO) :\n\nThus, vinegar or other acidic solutions should never be used on marble. Likewise, outdoor marble statues, gravestones, or other marble structures are damaged by acid rain.\n\nThe haloalkaliphilic methylotrophic bacterium \"Methylophaga murata\" was isolated from deteriorating marble in the Kremlin. Bacterial and fungal degradation was detected in four samples of marble from Milan cathedral; black \"Cladosporium\" attacked dried acrylic resin using melanin.\n\nAs the favorite medium for Greek and Roman sculptors and architects (see classical sculpture), marble has become a cultural symbol of tradition and refined taste. Its extremely varied and colorful patterns make it a favorite decorative material, and it is often imitated in background patterns for computer displays, etc.\n\nPlaces named after the stone include Marblehead, Massachusetts; Marblehead, Ohio; Marble Arch, London; the Sea of Marmara; India's Marble Rocks; and the towns of Marble, Minnesota; Marble, Colorado; Marble Falls, Texas, and Marble Hill, Manhattan, New York. The Elgin Marbles are marble sculptures from the Parthenon in Athens that are on display in the British Museum. They were brought to Britain by the Earl of Elgin.\n\nMarble dust is combined with cement or synthetic resins to make \"reconstituted\" or \"cultured marble\". The appearance of marble can be simulated with faux marbling, a painting technique that imitates the stone's color patterns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39038968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39038968", "title": "Montrose Air Station Heritage Centre", "text": "Montrose Air Station Heritage Centre\n\nThe Montrose Air Station Heritage Centre is located to the North of Montrose, Angus, Scotland. Montrose has the distinction of having the first operational military airfield in Great Britain and the Heritage Centre is located on the former airfield. It aims to show the human side of its history with a collection of contemporary photographs, artefacts and memorabilia. These not only tell of the history of the airfield but also the story of the men and women who served there and those who lived in the area.\n\nThe Air Station Heritage Centre is run by the Ian McIntosh Memorial Trust and is a registered Scottish charitable organisation. It is self-financing, relying on visitors fees and donations together with grants from local government and the Heritage Lottery Fund. The centre receives no regular financial support from local or national government.\n\nThe airfield was first opened on 1913 when five aircraft of No.2 Squadron Royal Flying Corps arrived. Montrose became the first operational military airfield in Great Britain and first military airfield in Scotland.\n\nThe air station closed in 1920 but was reopened in 1935 for use in the Second World War. After the war the airfield continued to be used as a maintenance unit until it closed on 4 June 1952.\n\nIn 1983 a group of local enthusiast banded together to ensure that the history of Montrose Air Station would not be forgotten. A local man, Ian McIntosh, established the Montrose Air Station Heritage Trust, now known as the Ian McIntosh Memorial Trust and money was raised by the Montrose Aerodrome Museum Society.\n\nIn 1992 the trust purchased the Watch Office and ground which became the Montrose Air Station Museum. Over the years the museum has added more buildings to house its increasing collection of artefacts, memorabilia and models aided by donations, local government grants and the Heritage Lottery Fund.\n\nOn 19 May 2012 a memorial stone was unveiled at the air station in remembrance of the units and personnel who were stationed there. The memorial was provided by the Airfields of Britain Conservation Trust.\n\nThis project was supported by the Heritage Lottery Fund as well as local benefactors. It commenced in June 2010 and involved extending the Romney Building to create room for new facilities. These included a Link Trainer, computer flight simulator and a learning zone with audio and video resources. It was completed in October 2012.\n\nSimilar to the wartime Spitfire Funds this was to raise money to purchase a full size replica Spitfire. Additional funding from Angus Council has enabled the purchase of the Spitfire which now sits at the front of the main building. The Aircraft, made by GB Replicas, stands as a monument to the many people who served there during two World Wars. It is in the colours and markings of the 602 Squadron (City of Glasgow) Red Lichtie Spitfire. The original Red Lichtie was purchased in 1942 by the people of Arbroath, Angus after they started a Spitfire fund and raised £5000.\nOn 26 July 2013 HRH Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex visited the Heritage Centre and unveiled the Spitfire and a commemorative stone.\n\nThe first pilot to land in France after the declaration of war was Lieutenant H.D. Harvey-Kelly of No.2 Squadron RFC Montrose.The project is named after this event. A new building has been erected which will house the centre’s artefacts from World War I including the Robertson Cross and the replica Sopwith Camel. They have also constructed a full size replica B.E.2a aircraft and put together a comprehensive exhibition. Also part of this project will involve the production of a Roll of Honour, an 'online' Book of Remembrance for pilots who were killed in accidents whilst flying at Montrose Air Station. The First in France 1914 project is supported by the Heritage Lottery Fund.\n\nMontrose Air Station Heritage Centre is a member of Museums Galleries Scotland and fully accredited Museum.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe MT (Mechanised Transport) Hut can be seen in some of the oldest pictures of the air station and dates back to around 1915. After the closure of the air station in 1952 the hut fell into a state of disrepair. In 2009 volunteers started restoring the hut and it was formally reopened on 5 May 2012. The building is a category:C(S) Listed Building Historic Scotland Building ID: 38231\n\nBuilt in 1915 this was the former headquarters building of the air station and now holds several exhibitions. The building is a category:C(S) Listed Building Historic Scotland Building ID: 38229\n\nFormerly the Commanding Officers office, there is a display on the theme of the Home Front during World War II\n\nIs used for temporary displays.\n\nThe largest display room tells the story of Montrose Air Station from its foundation in 1913 to its closure in 1952 and the people who served there. A new acquisition for 2013 is a large Diorama showing the layout of the airfield in 1940.\n\nA pilots bedroom in 1940.\n\nThe pillbox dates from 1949 and was an important part of the defences at Montrose.\nThe Anderson shelter was designed in 1938 by William Paterson and Oscar Carl (Karl) Kerrison in response to a request from the Home Office. It was named after Sir John Anderson, then Lord Privy Seal with special responsibility for preparing air-raid precautions immediately prior to the outbreak of World War II, and it was he who then initiated the development of the shelter. It was widely used by the civilian population during World War II\n\nFormerly the Kirriemuir Aviation Museum, this building displays Richard Moss’s collection of RAF memorabilia.\n\nThis is named after LAC Jack Drummond who was posted to Montrose in 1937. The Nissen hut is used for restoration projects and houses working machinery. For safety reasons it is not open to the public.\n\nNamed after Squadron Leader John Betty, former Chief Flying Instructor at RAF Montrose, the library houses the largest private collection of aviation books in Scotland and the Heritage Centre’s archives. It is accessible to visitors by arrangement and will eventually provide computer access to archives in the future for family history research.\n\nThis building, a Romney Hut funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund, was named after David Butler who was a founder member of the Heritage Centre. It houses the Miles M.2H Hawk Major, T.22 de Havilland Sea Vampire and link trainer together with a display of aircraft engines. There is also a Pilot Training Display including a computer flight simulator and a Learning Zone for visits from local schools.\n\nThe Heritage Centre's newest building was erected in July 2014 and funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund. It was officially opened by the Lord Lieutenant of Angus, Mrs Georgiana Osborne, on 3 August 2014. The Heritage Centres World War I artefacts are on display in the building together with its full size replica B.E.2a and Sopwith Camel aircraft. The building is named after Lt Robertson who learned to fly at Montrose and was killed in action on his fourth mission 5 months later on 12 May 1917. He was buried by the Germans and the cross they made for his grave is now on display in the building. It stands as a memorial not just for Lt Robertson but to all the people who served at Montrose.\n\nTo the immediate south of the Heritage Centre stand three aircraft hangars which are believed to be the oldest known example of their type in the world. The hangars were built at the end of 1913 and first used in early 1914 to house No. 2 Squadron when they moved to the airfield from Upper Dysart. Their design was based on Indian Army Sheds modified by Major Burke to house aircraft and were pre-fabricated in Glasgow before being transported to Montrose. The buildings were constructed of wood with corrugated iron roofs and each one had two gabled openings. The hangars were built in a curve following the path of railway line which used to be at the rear of the buildings.\n\nThe hangar farthest away from the heritage centre retains its original cladding. The building is a category:A Listed Building Historic Scotland Building ID: 38228\n\nThe other two hangars have had a steel cladding added in 1987-8 and are category:B Listed Buildings Historic Scotland Building ID: 38227\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48035783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48035783", "title": "Natural gas in the Gaza Strip", "text": "Natural gas in the Gaza Strip\n\nSignificant reserves of natural gas were found offshore from the Gaza Strip. As of early 2015, Gaza's natural gas was still underwater and the same for almost all of the Levantine gas.\n\nThe Palestinians signed a memorandum of intent on November 8, 1999 with British Gas and a company linked to the Palestinian Authority, the Consolidated Contractors Company, giving them rights to explore the area. The discovered natural gas reserve was calculated to have 35 BCM, larger than Israel's Yam Tethys maritime gas field. It was found in two small gas fields dubbed Gaza Marine 1 and Gaza Marine 2.\n\nIn 1999, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak set aside exploration of Gaza's offshore resources for a future Palestinian state, with no prior consultation with Israel stipulated. According to Michael Schwartz, Barak deployed the Israeli navy in Gaza's coastal waters to impede the implementation of the terms of the modest contract between the Palestinian Authority and British Gas (BG) to develop Gaza's Mediterranean gas resources. Israel demanded that the Gaza gas be piped to facilities on its territory, and at a price below the prevailing market level and that Israel also control all the (relatively modest) revenues destined for the Palestinians — to prevent the money from being used to \"fund terror.\" In Schwartz's view, with this Israeli action the Oslo Accords were officially doomed, because by declaring Palestinian control over gas revenues unacceptable, the Israeli government committed itself to not accepting even the most limited kind of Palestinian budgetary autonomy, let alone full sovereignty. In Schwartz's view, since no Palestinian government or organization would agree to this, a future filled with armed conflict was assured.\n\nThe Israeli veto led to the intervention of British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who sought to broker an agreement that would satisfy both the Israeli government and the Palestinian Authority. The result was a 2007 proposal that would have delivered the gas to Israel, not Egypt, at below-market prices, with the same 10% cut of the revenues eventually reaching the Palestinian Authority. However, those funds were first to be delivered to the Federal Reserve Bank in New York for future distribution, to guarantee that they would not be used for attacks on Israel.\n\nThe Israelis pointed to the 2006 victory of the militant Hamas party in Palestinian elections as a deal-breaker. Though Hamas had agreed to let the Federal Reserve supervise all spending, the Israeli government, now led by Ehud Olmert, insisted that no \"royalties be paid to the Palestinians.\" Instead, the Israelis would deliver the equivalent of those funds \"in goods and services.\" \nThe Hamas-led Palestinian unity government refused the offer, and soon after, Olmert imposed a blockade on Gaza, which Israel's defense minister termed a form of \"'economic warfare' that would generate a political crisis, leading to a popular uprising against Hamas.\" With Egyptian cooperation, Israel then seized control of commerce in and out of Gaza, limiting even food imports and eliminating its fishing industry. Olmert advisor Dov Weisglass summed up this policy by saying the Israeli government was putting the Palestinians \"on a diet.\" According to the Red Cross, this blockade produced \"chronic malnutrition,\" especially among Gazan children.\n\nThe Palestinians still refused to accept Israel's terms, and the Olmert government decided to unilaterally extract the gas, something that, they believed, could only occur once Hamas had been displaced or disarmed. As Moshe Ya'alon explained, \"Hamas... has confirmed its capability to bomb Israel's strategic gas and electricity installations... It is clear that, without an overall military operation to uproot Hamas control of Gaza, no drilling work can take place without the consent of the radical Islamic movement.\" Operation Cast Lead, launched in the winter of 2008, did not achieve the goal of \"transferring the sovereignty of the gas fields to Israel.\"\n\nIn 2010-11, the Israeli government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faced an energy crisis when the events of the Arab Spring in Egypt interrupted and then stopped 40% of Israel's gas supplies. Rising energy prices contributed to some of the largest protests involving Jewish Israelis in decades. Israel's Resource Minister asserted that \"[t]hese areas are within the economic waters of Israel... We will not hesitate to use our force and strength to protect not only the rule of law but the international maritime law.\"\n\nThe Iron Dome system, developed in part to stop Hezbollah rockets aimed at Israel's northern gas fields, was put in place near the border with Gaza and was tested during Operation Returning Echo, the fourth Israeli military attempt to weaken Hamas and eliminate any Palestinian \"capability to bomb Israel's strategic gas and electricity installations.\"\n\nThe next round of negotiations stalled over the Palestinian rejection of Israel's demand to control all fuel and revenues destined for Gaza and the West Bank. The new Palestinian Unity government then followed the lead of the Lebanese, Syrians, and Turkish Cypriots, and in late 2013 signed an \"exploration concession\" with Gazprom, the large Russian natural gas company. As with Lebanon and Syria, the Russian Navy was a potential deterrent to Israeli \"interference.\"\n\nWith Gazprom's move to develop the Palestinian-claimed gas deposits on the horizon, the Israelis launched their fifth military effort \"to force Palestinian acquiescence,\" Operation Protective Edge. The operation \"had two major hydrocarbon-related goals: to deter Palestinian-Russian plans and to finally eliminate the Gazan rocket systems.\" The first goal was apparently met when Gazprom postponed its development deal. However, \"the two-pronged land and air attack -- despite unprecedented devastation in Gaza -- failed to destroy Hamas's rocket stockpiles or its tunnel-based assembly system; nor did the Iron Dome achieve the sort of near-perfect interception rate needed to protect proposed energy installations.\"\n\nAs of early 2015, Gaza's natural gas was still underwater and the same for almost all of the Levantine gas. In 2015, the Palestinian government resumed negotiations on the agreement with BG and abrogated the exclusive rights it had given to the company. It also raised the PIF share from 10% under the old agreement to 17.5%. Subsequently, Shell acquired BG on April 8, 2016.\n\nAs of 2017, the Gaza Marine field licenses were owned by PIF with 17.5% of the field development rights, Consolidated Contractors Company owns 27.5% of these rights and Shell 55%. The development and gas extraction rights belong to the Palestinians alone.\n"}
{"id": "58877133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58877133", "title": "Olympus Alpine Biblioteca", "text": "Olympus Alpine Biblioteca\n\nThe Olympus Alpine Biblioteca, founded in 2010, contains works that treat different subjects about Mount Olympus in Greece. The aim is to create a collection, as complete as possible, of all published books and texts and, if possible, to make them available for free download. The list is chronologically after the date of publication and dates back to the year 1776. \n\nThere are more than 300 books, e-books and PDF's listed, some of which, especially older copies, are no longer available on the market. It is noteworthy that most titles published in the 19th century can be downloaded. Including classics like \"Travels in Northern Greek (1835)\" by William M. Leake or \"Le Mont Olympe et L 'Acarnanie (1860)\" by Léon Heuzey.\n\nOf the works published in the 20th and 21st centuries, almost half can be stored for private use. Currently, titles are recorded in Greek, English, German, French and Italian. The downloads are free. The topics include:\n\n"}
{"id": "14490084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14490084", "title": "Outline of meteorology", "text": "Outline of meteorology\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to meteorology:\n\nMeteorology – interdisciplinary scientific study of the atmosphere which explains and forecasts weather events. Meteorology has application in many diverse fields such as the military, energy production, transport, agriculture and construction.\n\nMeteorology\n\n\n\nWeather forecasting – the application of science and technology to predict the state of the atmosphere for a future time and a given location\n\n\nWeather map\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nClimate:\n\nOther phenomena:\n\n\"See weather forecasting#External links for weather forecast sites\"\n"}
{"id": "1343550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343550", "title": "P-wave", "text": "P-wave\n\nA P-wave is one of the two main types of elastic body waves, called seismic waves in seismology. P-waves travel faster than other seismic waves and hence are the first signal from an earthquake to arrive at any affected location or at a seismograph. P-waves may be transmitted through gases, liquids, or solids.\n\nThe name P-wave can stand for either pressure wave (as it is formed from alternating compressions and rarefactions) or primary wave (as it has high velocity and is therefore the first wave to be recorded by a seismograph).\n\nIn isotropic and homogeneous solids, the mode of propagation of a P-wave is always longitudinal; thus, the particles in the solid vibrate along the axis of propagation (the direction of motion) of the wave energy.\n\nPrimary and secondary waves are body waves that travel within the Earth. The motion and behavior of both \"P\"-type and \"S\"-type in the Earth are monitored to probe the interior structure of the Earth. Discontinuities in velocity as a function of depth are indicative of changes in phase or composition. Differences in arrival times of waves originating in a seismic event like an earthquake as a result of waves taking different paths allow mapping of the Earth's inner structure.\n\nAlmost all the information available on the structure of the Earth's deep interior is derived from observations of the travel times, reflections, refractions and phase transitions of seismic body waves, or normal modes. P-waves travel through the fluid layers of the Earth's interior, and yet they are refracted slightly when they pass through the transition between the semisolid mantle and the liquid outer core. As a result, there is a P-wave \"shadow zone\" between 103° and 142° from the earthquake's focus, where the initial P-waves are not registered on seismometers. In contrast, S-waves do not travel through liquids, rather, they are attenuated.\n\nAdvance earthquake warning is possible by detecting the nondestructive primary waves that travel more quickly through the Earth's crust than do the destructive secondary and Rayleigh waves.\n\nThe amount of advance warning depends on the delay between the arrival of the P-wave and other destructive waves, generally on the order of seconds up to about 60 to 90 seconds for deep, distant, large quakes such as the 2011 Tohoku earthquake. The effectiveness of advance warning depends on accurate detection of the P-waves and rejection of ground vibrations caused by local activity (such as trucks or construction). Earthquake early warning systems can be automated to allow for immediate safety actions, such as issuing alerts, stopping elevators at the nearest floors and switching off utilities.\n\nThe velocity of P-waves in a homogeneous isotropic medium is given by\nwhere \"K\" is the bulk modulus (the modulus of incompressibility), \"formula_2\" is the shear modulus (modulus of rigidity, sometimes denoted as \"G\" and also called the second Lamé parameter), \"formula_3\" is the density of the material through which the wave propagates, and \"formula_4\" is the first Lamé parameter.\n\nOf these, density shows the least variation, so the velocity is mostly \"controlled\" by \"K\" and \"μ\".\n\nThe elastic moduli P-wave modulus, formula_5, is defined so that formula_6 and thereby\n\nTypical values for P-wave velocity in earthquakes are in the range 5 to 8 km/s. The precise speed varies according to the region of the Earth's interior, from less than 6 km/s in the Earth's crust to 13.5 km/s in the lower mantle, and 11 km/s through the inner core.\n\nGeologist Francis Birch discovered a relationship between the velocity of P waves and the density of the material the waves are traveling in:\n\nwhich later became known as Birch's law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1531771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1531771", "title": "Pacific blockade", "text": "Pacific blockade\n\nPacific blockade is a term invented by Laurent-Basile Hautefeuille, a French writer on international maritime law, to describe a blockade exercised by a great power for the purpose of bringing pressure to bear on a weaker state without actual war. It can only be employed as a measure of coercion by maritime powers able to bring into action such vastly superior forces to those the resisting state can dispose of that resistance is out of the question.\n\nIn this respect it is an act of war, and any attempt to exercise it against a power strong enough to resist would be a commencement of hostilities, and at once bring into play the rights and duties affecting neutrals. On the other hand, the object and justification of a pacific blockade being to avoid war, that is general hostilities and disturbance of international traffic with the state against which the operation is carried on, rights of war cannot consistently be exercised against ships belonging to other states than those concerned. And yet, if neutrals were not to be affected by it, the coercive effect of such a blockade might be completely lost. Recent practice has been to limit interference with them to the extent barely necessary to carry out the purpose of the blockading powers.\n\nIt is usual to refer to the intervention of France, England and Russia in Turkish affairs in 1827 as the first occasion on which the coercive value of pacific blockades was put to the test. Neutral vessels were not affected by it. This was followed by a number of other coercive measures described in the textbooks as pacific blockades.\n\nThe first case, however, in which the operation was really a blockade, unaccompanied by hostilities, and which therefore can be properly called a pacific blockade, was that which in 1837 Great Britain exercised against New Granada. A British subject and consul of the name of Russell was accused of stabbing a native of the country in a street brawl. He was arrested, and after being kept in detention for some months he was tried for the unlawful carrying of arms and sentenced to six years imprisonment. The British government resented this treatment as not only cruel and unjust towards Mr Russell, but disrespectful towards the British nation, and demanded the dismissal of the officials implicated and 1000 damages as some compensation for the cruel injuries which had been inificted upon Mr Russell (State Papers, 1837-1838, p. 183). The New Granada government refused to comply with these demands, and the British representative, acting upon his instructions, called in the assistance of the West Indian fleet, but observed in his communication to the British naval officer in command that it was desirable to avoid hostilities, and to endeavour to bring about the desired result by a strict blockade only. This seems to be the first occasion on which it had occurred to anybody that a blockade without war might serve the purpose of war.\n\nThis precedent was shortly afterwards followed by another somewhat similar case, in which from the April 16 to the November 28, 1838 the French government blockaded the Mexican ports, to coerce the Mexican government into acceptance of certain demands on behalf of French subjects who had suffered injury to their persons and damage to their property through insufficient protection by the Mexican authorities.\n\nThe blockade of Buenos Aires and the Argentine coast from the March 28, 1838 to the November 7, 1840 by the French fleet, a coercive measure consequent upon vexatious laws affecting foreign residents in the Argentine Republic, seems to have been the first case in which the operation was notified to the different representatives of foreign states. This notification was given in Paris, and at Buenos Aires, and to every ship approaching the blockaded places.\n\nThis precedent of notification was, a few years later (1845), followed in another blockade against the same country by Great Britain and France, and in one in 1842 and 1844 by Great Britain against the port of Greytown in Nicaragua. In 1850 Great Britain blockaded the ports of Greece in order to compel the Hellenic government to give satisfaction in the Don Pacifico case. Don Pacifico, a British subject, claimed 32,000 as damages for unprovoked pillage of his house by an Athenian mob. Greek vessels only were seized, and these were only sequestered. Greek vessels bonafide carrying cargoes belonging to foreigners were allowed to enter the blockaded ports.\n\nBefore the next case of blockade which can be described as pacific occurred came the Declaration of Paris (April 15, 1856), requiring that blockades in order to be binding must be effective; that is to say, maintained by a force sufficient really to prevent access to the coast of the enemy.\n\nSome ill-defined measures of blockade followed, such as that of 1860, when Victor Emmanuel, then king of Sardinia, joined the revolutionary government of Naples in blockading ports in Sicily, then held by the king of Naples, without any rupture of pacific relations between the two governments; that of 1862, in which Great Britain blockaded the port of Rio de Janeiro, to exact redress for pillage of an English vessel by the local population, at the same time declaring that she continued to be, on friendly terms with the emperor of Brazil; and that in 1880, when a demonstration was made before the port of Ulcinj by a fleet of British, German, French, Austrian, Russian and Italian men-of-war, to compel the Turkish government to carry out the treaty conceding this town to Montenegro, and it was announced that if the town was not given up by the Turkish forces it would be blockaded.\n\nThe blockade which first gave rise to serious theoretical discussion on the subject was that instituted by France in 1884 in Chinese waters. On the 20th of October 1884 Admiral Courbet declared a blockade of all the ports and roadsteads between certain specified points of the island of Formosa. The British government protestmi that Admiral Coubert had not enough ships to render the blockade effective, and that it was therefore a violation of one of the articles of the Declaration of Paris of 1856; moreover, that the French government could only interfere with neutral vessels violating the blockade if there was a state of war. If a state of war existed, England as a neutral was bound to close her coaling stations to belligerents. The British government held that in the circumstances France was waging war and not entitled to combine the rights of peace and warfare for her own benefit. Since then pacific blockades have only been exercised by the great powers as a joint measure in their common interest, which has also been that of peace; and in this respect the term is taking a new signification in accordance with the ordinary sense of the word pacific.\n\nIn 1886 Greece was blockaded by Great Britain, Austria, Germany, Italy and Russia, to prevent her from engaging in war with Turkey, and thus forcing the powers to define their attitude towards the latter power. The instructions given to the British commander were to detain every ship under the Greek flag coming out of or entering any of the blockaded ports or harbours, or communicating with any ports within the limit blockaded; but if any parts of the cargo on board of such ships belonged to any subject or citizen of any foreign power other than Greece, and other than Austria, Germany, Italy and Russia, and had been shipped before notification of the blockade or after such notification, but under a charter made before the notification, such ship was not to be detained.\n\nOn the blockade of Crete in 1897 it was notified that the admirals in command of the British, Austro-Hungarian, French, German, Italian, and Russian naval forces had decided to put the island of Crete in a state of blockade, that the blockade would be general for all ships under the Greek flag, and that ships of the six powers or neutral powers may enter into the ports occupied by the powers and land their merchandise, but only if it is not for the Greek troops or the interior of the island, and that these ships may be visited by the ships of the international fleets.\n\nSince the adoption of the Hague Convention of 1907 respecting the limitation of the employment of force for the recovery of contract debts, the contracting powers are under agreement not to have recourse to armed force for the recovery of contract debts claimed from the government of one country by the government of another country as being due to its nationals, unless the debtor state refuses or neglects to reply to an offer of arbitration, or after accepting the offer-prevents any compromis from being agreed on, or after the arbitration fails to submit to the award (Art. I). Though this does not affect pacific blockades in principle, it supersedes them in practice by a new procedure for some of the cases in which they have hitherto been employed.\n\nThere is always the alternative of making the blockade an act of war. This was done in 1902-3, when Great Britain, Germany and Italy proclaimed a blockade of certain ports of Venezuela and the mouths of the Orinoco. The blockade in this case was not pacific, but was war with all its consequences for belligerents and neutrals (see Foreign Office notice in London Gazette of December 20, 1902).\n\n"}
{"id": "3004895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3004895", "title": "Priabonian", "text": "Priabonian\n\nThe Priabonian is, in the ICS's geologic timescale, the latest age or the upper stage of the Eocene epoch or series. It spans the time between . The Priabonian is preceded by the Bartonian and is followed by the Rupelian, the lowest stage of the Oligocene.\n\nThe Priabonian stage was introduced in scientific literature by Ernest Munier-Chalmas and Albert de Lapparent in 1893. The stage is named after the small hamlet of Priabona in the community of Monte di Malo, in the Veneto region of northern Italy.\n\nThe base of the Priabonian stage is at the first appearance of calcareous nanoplankton species \"Chiasmolithus oamaruensis\" (which forms the base of nanoplankton biozone NP18). An official GSSP had in 2009 not yet been assigned.\n\nThe top of the Priabonian stage (the base of the Rupelian stage and Oligocene series) is at the extinction of foram genus \"Hantkenina\".\n\nSometimes local rock strata cannot be correlated in sufficient detail with the ICS timescale, and stratigraphers often use regional timescales as alternatives to the ICS timescale. The Priabonian overlaps for example the upper Johannian and lower Aldingan stages of the Australian timescale or the upper Nanzian and lower Refugian stages of the Californian timescale. Other regional stages which are more or less coeval with the Priabonian include the Jacksonian of the southeastern US and Runangan of New Zealand.\n\nIn biostratigraphy, the Priabonian stage is coeval with the Chadronian North American Land Mammal Age, the Headonian European Land Mammal Mega Zone (in more detail: with the Mammal Paleogene zones 17A through 20), parts of the Barrancan and Mustersan South American Land Mammal Ages and the Ulangochuian and Ergilian Asian Land Mammal Ages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3723097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3723097", "title": "Puddle", "text": "Puddle\n\nA puddle is a small accumulation of liquid, usually water, on a surface. It can form either by pooling in a depression on the surface, or by surface tension upon a flat surface. \n\nA puddle is generally shallow enough to walk through, and too small to traverse with a boat or raft. Small wildlife may be attracted to puddles.\n\nPuddles in natural landscapes and habitats, when not resulting from precipitation, can indicate the presence of a seep or spring. Small seasonal riparian plants, grasses, and wildflowers can germinate with the ephemeral \"head start\" of moisture provided by a puddle.\n\nSmall wildlife, such as birds and insects, can use puddles as a source of essential moisture or for bathing. Raised constructed puddles, bird baths, are a part of domestic and wildlife gardens as a garden ornament and \"micro-habitat\" restoration. Swallows use the damp loam which gathers in puddles as a form of cement to help to build their nests. Many butterfly species and some other insects, but particularly male butterflies, need puddles for nutrients they can contain, such as salts and amino acids. In a behaviour known as puddling they seek out the damp mud that can be found around the edge of the puddles.\n\nFor some smaller forms of life, such as tadpoles or mosquito larvae, a puddle can form an entire habitat. Puddles that do not evaporate quickly can become standing water, which can become polluted by decaying organisms and are often home to breeding mosquitos, which can act as vectors for diseases such as malaria and, of more recent concern in certain areas of the world, West Nile Virus.\n\nPuddles commonly form during rain, and can cause problems for transport. Due to the angle of the road, puddles tend to be forced by gravity to gather on the edges of the road. This can cause splashing as cars drive through the puddles, which causes water to be sprayed onto pedestrians on the pavement. Irresponsible drivers may do this deliberately, which, in some countries, can lead to prosecution for careless driving.\n\nPuddles commonly form in potholes in a dirt road, or in any other space with a shallow depression and dirt. In such cases, these are sometimes referred to as \"mud puddles\", because mud tends to form in the bottoms, resulting in dirtied wheels or boots when disturbed.\n\nIn order to deal with puddles, roads and pavements are often built with a camber (technically called 'crowning'), being slightly convex in nature, to force puddles to drain into the gutter, which has storm drain grates to allow the water to drain into the sewers. In addition, some surfaces are made to be porous, allowing the water to drain through the surface to the aquifer below.\n\nDue to the action of surface tension, small puddles can also form if a liquid is spilt on a level surface. Puddles like this are common on kitchen floors. Puddles tend to evaporate quickly due to the high surface-area-to-volume ratio and tend to be short lived. In cold conditions puddles can form patches of ice which are slippery and difficult to see and can be a hazard to road vehicles and pedestrians.\n\nPuddles are a source of recreation for children, who often like jumping in puddles as an \"up-side\" to rain. A children's nursery rhyme records the story of Doctor Foster and his encounter with a puddle in Gloucester. Muddy puddles, and the pleasures of splashing mud in them, are a repeated theme in the children's animation Peppa Pig, to the extent of selling character-branded wellington boots.\n\nIt has been fashionable for millennia, and continues to be fashionable in some circles, to believe the Universe is designed for humans. Some critics of this view reject it as hubris or anthropocentrism and argue instead that through the process of evolution it is humans that have adapted to or been shaped by the Universe. In his book \"The Salmon of Doubt\", Douglas Adams satirizes the belief that the universe is designed for humans:\nimagine a puddle waking up one morning and thinking, 'This is an interesting world I find myself in, an interesting hole I find myself in, fits me rather neatly, doesn't it? In fact, it fits me staggeringly well, must have been made to have me in it!' This is such a powerful idea that as the sun rises in the sky and the air heats up and as, gradually, the puddle gets smaller and smaller, it's still frantically hanging on to the notion that everything's going to be all right, because this World was meant to have him in it, was built to have him in it; so the moment he disappears catches him rather by surprise.\nWhen Walter Raleigh met Queen Elizabeth I, Raleigh is reputed to have thrown his coat over a muddy puddle to allow the Queen to cross without getting her feet wet as an act of chivalry.\n\nMedieval legend spoke of one man who was desperate to find building materials for his house, so he stole cobblestones from the road surface. The remaining hole filled with water and a horseman who later walked through the 'puddle' actually found himself drowning. A similar legend, of a young boy drowning in a puddle that formed in a Pothole in a major street in the early years of Seattle, Washington, is told as part of the Seattle Underground Tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "727863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=727863", "title": "Rocky Mountain Institute", "text": "Rocky Mountain Institute\n\nRocky Mountain Institute (RMI) is an organization in the United States dedicated to research, publication, consulting, and lecturing in the general field of sustainability, with a special focus on profitable innovations for energy and resource efficiency. RMI was established in 1982 and has grown into a broad-based institution with 150+ staff and an annual budget of some $30 million. RMI's work is independent and non-adversarial, with a strong emphasis on market-based solutions. The institute, including recently merged Carbon War Room, operates on 9 initiative areas: Electricity Platform, Renewables Solutions, Buildings, Reinventing Fire: China, Smart Island Economies, Mobility Transformation, Shipping Efficiency, Sunshine for Mines, Sustainable Aviation, and Trucking Efficiency. The work of RMI has benefited more than 80 Fortune 500 companies in a diverse range of sectors. RMI is headquartered in Basalt, Colorado, and also maintains offices in Boulder, Colorado, New York City, Washington D.C. and Beijing, China.\n\nIn 1978, experimental physicist Amory Lovins had published many books, consulted widely, and was active in energy affairs in some fifteen countries as synthesist and lobbyist. Lovins is a main theorist of the soft energy path.\n\nLater in 1979, Lovins married L. Hunter Sheldon, a lawyer, forester, and social scientist. Hunter received her undergraduate degree in sociology and political studies from Pitzer College, and her J.D. from Loyola Marymount's School of Law. In 1982, Amory and Hunter founded Rocky Mountain Institute, based in Colorado. Together with a group of colleagues, the Lovinses fostered efficient resource use and policy development that they believed would promote global security. RMI ultimately grew into an organization with a staff of around fifty. By the mid 1980s, the Lovinses were being featured on major network TV programs, such as \"60 Minutes\".\n\nAt RMI's headquarters the south-facing building complex is so energy-efficient that, even with local -40 °F (-40 °C) winter temperatures, the building interiors can maintain a comfortable temperature solely from the sunlight admitted plus the body heat of the people who work there. The environment can actually nurture semi-tropical and tropical indoor plants.\n\nThe Lovinses described the \"hard energy path\" as involving inefficient liquid-fuel automotive transport, as well as giant centralized electricity-generating facilities, often burning fossil fuels such as coal or petroleum, or harnessing a fission reaction, greatly complicated by electricity wastage and loss. The \"soft energy path\" which they wholly preferred involves efficient use of energy, diversity of energy production methods (and matched in scale and quality to end uses), and special reliance on \"soft technologies\" (alternative technology) such as solar, wind, biofuels, and geothermal. According to the Institute, large-scale electricity production facilities had an important place, but it was a place that they were already filling in the middle 1970s; in general, more would not be needed. In a 1989 speech, Amory Lovins introduced the related concept of Negawatt power, in which the creation of a market for trading increased efficiency could supply additional electrical energy to consumers without increasing generation capacity—such as building more power plants.\n\nIn recent years, RMI has convened a team of designers and engineers to develop a super-efficient prototype automobile, which they've dubbed the Hypercar.\n\nIn December 2014, RMI merged with Carbon War Room, an organization with similar goals but a different approach\n\nIn January 2008, led by John E. Waters, Bright Automotive launched from RMI with the goal of building on the work of a consortium of organizations, including Alcoa, Google.org, Johnson Controls and the Turner Foundation.\n\nBright Automotive sought with its Bright IDEA project to develop a brand new, plug-in hybrid electric (PHEV) fleet vehicle. It launched Bright eSolutions to consult on engineering, design, powertrain, battery technology and plug-in hybrid conversion technology services. Bright Automotive secured a conversion contract with the U.S. Army Tank-automotive and Armaments Command (TACOM) to convert military non-combat vehicles into a parallel PHEV for evaluation, including V2G testing.\n\nAdvanced Energy, in partnership with Rocky Mountain Institute, has announced a Request for Information (RFI) for Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) specific to charging stations for plug-in electric vehicles (EV).\n\nBooks published by RMI include:\n\n\nRMI co-founder Amory Lovins has received nine honorary doctorates, a MacArthur Fellowship, the Heinz, Lindbergh, Right Livelihood Award, World Technology, and Time Hero for the Planet awards, the Benjamin Franklin and Happold Medals, the Nissan, Shingo, Mitchell, and Onassis Prizes, and honorary membership of the American Institute of Architects (AIA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11870517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11870517", "title": "Saint Lawrence rift system", "text": "Saint Lawrence rift system\n\nThe Saint Lawrence rift system is a seismically active zone paralleling the Saint Lawrence River. The rift system trends northeast and southwest and forms a half-graben that links the Ottawa-Bonnechere and the Saguenay grabens. The rift system extends more than along the Saint Lawrence valley from the Ottawa – Montreal area. Within the system, fault reactivation is believed to occur along late Proterozoic to early Paleozoic normal faults related to the opening of the Iapetus Ocean.\n\nTwo significant historically active seismic zones occur along this system associated with northwest trending intersecting graben structures. The Charlevoix region has been the location of at least five magnitude six or larger earthquakes over the last 350 years, including the 1925 Charlevoix–Kamouraska earthquake. At the Lower St Lawrence zone the largest recorded earthquakes are about magnitude five. Seismic studies indicate a crustal convergence across the Saint Lawrence valley of about per year.\n\nThe earthquakes of the Charlevoix Seismic Zone are thought to be related to the re-activation of ancient fault structures by the Charlevoix impact event.\n\n"}
{"id": "19328599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19328599", "title": "Solar Energy (journal)", "text": "Solar Energy (journal)\n\nSolar Energy is a peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on solar energy such as photovoltaics and solar heating, but also its indirect usages like wind power or bioenergy. It is published by g h s sai kumar. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2013 impact factor of 3.541.\n\n"}
{"id": "13243639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13243639", "title": "South East Atlantic Fisheries Organisation", "text": "South East Atlantic Fisheries Organisation\n\nThe South East Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (SEAFO) is an organization that maintains controls over fishing and fishing related acts in the Southeastern Atlantic Ocean.\n\nPredating the Independence of Namibia in 1990, the International Commission for South East Atlantic Fisheries (ICSEAF) was responsible for the management of the fisheries in the region both in the exclusive economic zones of Angola, Namibia and South Africa and in the adjacent water of the high seas. ICSEAF Convention came into force in 1971, with the Secretariat located in Madrid, Spain and was established mainly in response to increased levels of exploitation of newly discovered rich fishing grounds off the Namibian coast by the fleet of Distant Water Fishing Nations (DWFNs). ICSEAF failed its mandate largely because Contracting Parties did not comply with the conservation and management measures they adopted and that the Commission lacked effective compliance and enforcement mechanisms. Fishing efforts increased rapidly during the 1960s and throughout the 1970s and 1980s on targeted species such as hake, horse mackerel and pilchards off Namibia and horse mackerels (\"Trachurus capensis\" and \"T. trecae\") and sardinellas (Sardinella aurita and \"S. maderensis\") in southern Angolan waters. For example, in 1965 about 193,000 tonnes of hake were caught mainly off Namibia and by 1972, a peak of 820,000 tonnes was recorded, followed by a declining trend to about 338,000 tonnes landed by 1988. At Independence in 1990, the new government of Namibia proclaimed through the Act of Parliament a EEZ and the jurisdiction over the fisheries within the zone. The organisation became inoperative following Namibia's refusal to join it. Meanwhile, the high seas fisheries of the southeast Atlantic were left without a managing body. With new mandate and direction, SEAFO replaced ICSEAF.\n\nSEAFO is an intergovernmental regional fisheries management organisation responsible for ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable use of the fishery resources (excluding migratory fish stocks) in the high seas of southeast Atlantic Ocean, within the Convention Area. The SEAFO Convention Area is situated in the southeast Atlantic region, outside the exclusive economic zones of the coastal states of Angola, Namibia, South Africa and United Kingdom’s overseas territory of St. Helena and its dependencies Tristan da Cunha and Ascension Island. It covers an area of about 16 million square kilometres. The idea to establish SEAFO came from Namibia in 1995 because of the concern that certain commercially valuable straddling fish stocks required better protection to avoid compromising their potential in Namibian waters as a result of unsustainable fishing practices on the adjacent high seas. The idea was welcomed and greatly supported by the coastal neighbours of Angola, South Africa and United Kingdom (on behalf of St. Helena and its dependencies Tristan da Cunha and Ascension Islands) and by DWFN's of EU, Iceland, Japan, Norway, Poland, Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Ukraine and United States – all of which have history of fishing or demonstrated real interest in the fisheries in the area.\n\nComplex negotiations between the coastal States and the DWFN started in 1997 and were completed in 2000 with the adoption of SEAFO Convention. SEAFO Convention is largely based on 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the 1995 United Nations Fish Stock Agreement (UNFSA) and is internationally hailed as the most contemporary, responsive instrument for conservation and sustainable utilisation of living marine resources in high seas. The Convention was signed on 20 April 2001 in Windhoek by Angola, the European Community, Iceland, Namibia, Norway, Republic of Korea, South Africa, United Kingdom (on behalf of St. Helena and its dependencies Tristan da Cunha and Ascension Islands) and the United States of America. It entered into force on 13 April 2003 after the deposit of instruments of ratification by Namibia and Norway and approval by the European Community. Angola deposited its instrument of ratification on 7 March 2006, making it a 4th Contracting Party of SEAFO. The role played by the developing coastal States in the drafting of SEAFO Convention was extensive.\n\nThe Commission is the highest decision-making body of the Organisation and it meets annually to among others, formulate fisheries conservation and management measures, review compliance issues and adopt the budget. Decision on matters of substance, within SEAFO is taken by consensus among the Parties. There is also a provision for non acceptance of a decision by a Contracting Party. Budgetary contributions are made up of an equal basic fee and a fee determined from the total catch of species covered by the Convention. SEAFO allows States and regional economic integration organizations to become parties to the Convention and encourages cooperation with non-Parties. Compliance with monitoring, control and surveillance (MCS) is one of the criteria for consideration in determining the nature and extent of participatory rights in SEAFO fishing opportunities. SEAFO Convention foresees the creation of a robust system of observation, inspection, compliance and enforcement that includes control measures linked to flag State duties and port State duties as well as at-sea and in port inspection, boarding and inspection of vessels on a reciprocal basis, observer programs and procedures to follow up on infringements. For transparency and openness, SEAFO accords accessibility of observers to its meetings and to its documents. SEAFO Scientific Committee provides scientific advice to the Commission on the conservation and management issues such as the status of the resources and the harvesting levels. Subsidiary bodies may be established by the Commission, as needs arise, from time-to-time. The day-to-day work of the Organisation is coordinated, administered and overseen by the Secretariat, based in Swakopmund, Namibia.\n\nSEAFO Convention provides fundamental principles that govern conservation and management of living marine resources under SEAFO's jurisdiction. Fisheries management is based on the best available scientific evidence, and where scientific information is uncertain, unreliable or inadequate, the precautionary approach principle prevails, until such time when more information is known about the resources dynamics, ecosystem structures and functions. The general principles encompass the concept of ecosystem approach to fisheries management. In particular conservation and protection of species that belong to the same ecosystem as, or are associated with or dependent upon the harvested fishery resources (e.g., seabirds, cetaceans, seals and marine turtle)s are given emphasis. In addition the general principles call for the minimization of harmful impacts on all living marine resources and protection of marine environment and its biodiversity.\n\nLiving marine resources covered by SEAFO including fish (such as orange roughy \"Hoplostethus atlanticus\", alfonsino \"Beryx splendens\", Patagonian toothfish \"Dissostichus eleginoides\", hake \"Merluccius paradoxus\", horse mackerel \"Trachurus capensis\", chub mackerel \"Scomber japonicus\", cardinalfishes \"Epigonus\" species, oreo dories and armourhead \"Pseudopentaceros\" species, some shark species and rays), molluscs (such as octopus and squid) and crustaceans (such as deep sea red crab \"Chaceon maritae\"). Some of the most notable commercially important species are orange roughy, alfonsino – harvested by bottom trawling, and deep sea red crab – capture by pots or traps and Patagonian toothfish caught by longlining. Highly migratory fish stocks such as tuna, swordfish, marlin and sharks in the region are covered by the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT). Most of SEAFO fish resources are found in deep waters (greater than 500 m depth) and tend to be slow grower, long-lived, late-matured and therefore could be vulnerable to over–exploitation. Their biological and ecological dynamics are not well known and there are no good historic time series.\n\nSEAFO has adopted innovative ways to manage deep sea fisheries, taking into account the EAF management, the precautionary approach principles as well as the reliance on the best scientific available evidence. Since 2005 and 2007, the following conservation and management measures were adopted:\n\n\nFor monitoring, control and surveillance (MCS) of fishing activities, SEAFO has adopted comprehensive and stringent measures including the following:\n\n\nSEAFO recognizes the need to cooperate with coastal States and all other States and Organisations having a real interest in the fishery resources of the South East Atlantic Ocean. At regional level, SEAFO and Angola, Namibia, South Africa and UK’s overseas territories in the region are working closely to ensure compatibility of conservation and management measures adopted for straddling fish stocks on the high seas and in areas of national jurisdiction. SEAFO has strong link with the Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem Programme (BCLME) and the Benguela Current Commission (BCC) and shares information on the fisheries and the environment.\n\nAt international level, SEAFO has working relationships with various regional fisheries management organisations, notably North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEAFC), Commission for the Conservation of the Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR), Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NAFO) and the International Commission for the Conservation of the Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT). Cooperation with these organisations is centred on the exchange of experiences on all matters of mutual interests, including on sharing of data on by-catch species and information on compliance matters such as on IUU fishing activities. SEAFO is working closely with the United Nations in particular with FAO and with the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea (DOALOS) aiming at strengthening high seas fisheries governance.\n\nAdditional information can be obtained from the SEAFO Secretariat at info@seafo.org and from SEAFO website .\n\n"}
{"id": "248182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248182", "title": "Space charge", "text": "Space charge\n\nSpace charge is a concept in which excess electric charge is treated as a continuum of charge distributed over a region of space (either a volume or an area) rather than distinct point-like charges. This model typically applies when charge carriers have been emitted from some region of a solid—the cloud of emitted carriers can form a space charge region if they are sufficiently spread out, or the charged atoms or molecules left behind in the solid can form a space charge region. Space charge usually only occurs in dielectric media (including vacuum) because in a conductive medium the charge tends to be rapidly neutralized or screened. The sign of the space charge can be either negative or positive. This situation is perhaps most familiar in the area near a metal object when it is heated to incandescence in a vacuum. This effect was first observed by Thomas Edison in light bulb filaments, where it is sometimes called the Edison effect, but space charge is a significant phenomenon in many vacuum and solid-state electronic devices.\n\nWhen a metal object is placed in a vacuum and is heated to incandescence, the energy is sufficient to cause electrons to \"boil\" away from the surface atoms and surround the metal object in a cloud of free electrons. This is called thermionic emission. The resulting cloud is negatively charged, and can be attracted to any nearby positively charged object, thus producing an electric current which passes through the vacuum.\n\nSpace charge can result from a range of phenomena, but the most important are:\n\n\nIt has been suggested that in alternating current (AC) most carriers injected at electrodes during a half of cycle are ejected during the next half cycle, so the net balance of charge on a cycle is practically zero. However, a small fraction of the carriers can be trapped at levels deep enough to retain them when the field is inverted. The amount of charge in AC should increase slower than in direct current (DC) and become observable after longer periods of time.\n\nHetero charge means that the polarity of the space charge is opposite to that of neighboring electrode, and homo charge is the reverse situation. Under high voltage application, a hetero charge near the electrode is expected to reduce the breakdown voltage, whereas a homo charge will increase it. After polarity reversal under ac conditions, the homo charge is converted to hetero space charge.\n\nIf the \"vacuum\" has a pressure of 10 mmHg or less, the main vehicle of conduction is electrons. The emission current density \"(J\") from the cathode, as a function of its thermodynamic temperature \"T\", in the absence of space-charge, is given by Richardson's law:\n\nwhere\n\nThe reflection coefficient can be as low as 0.105 but is usually near 0.5. For Tungsten, (1 - ř)A = 0.6 to 1.0 × 10 A mK, and \"φ\" = 4.52 eV. At 2500 °C, the emission is 28207 A/m.\n\nThe emission current as given above is many times greater than that normally collected by the electrodes, except in some pulsed valves such as the cavity magnetron. Most of the electrons emitted by the cathode are driven back to it by the repulsion of the cloud of electrons in its neighborhood. This is called the \"space charge effect\". In the limit of large current densities, \"J\" is given by the Child-Langmuir equation below, rather than by the thermionic emission equation above.\n\nSpace charge is an inherent property of all vacuum tubes. This has at times made life harder or easier for electrical engineers who used tubes in their designs. For example, space charge significantly limited the practical application of triode amplifiers which led to further innovations such as the vacuum tube tetrode.\n\nOn the other hand, space charge was useful in some tube applications because it generates a negative EMF within the tube's envelope, which could be used to create a negative bias on the tube's grid. Grid bias could also be achieved by using an applied grid voltage in addition to the control voltage. This could improve the engineer's control and fidelity of amplification. It allowed to construct \"space charge tubes\" for car radios that required only 6 or 12 volts anode voltage (typical examples were the 6DR8/EBF83, 6GM8/ECC86, 6DS8/ECH83, 6ES6/EF97 and 6ET6/EF98).\n\nSpace charges can also occur within dielectrics. For example, when gas near a high voltage electrode begins to undergo dielectric breakdown, electrical charges are injected into the region near the electrode, forming space charge regions in the surrounding gas. Space charges can also occur within solid or liquid dielectrics that are stressed by high electric fields. Trapped space charges within solid dielectrics are often a contributing factor leading to dielectric failure within high voltage power cables and capacitors.\n\nFirst proposed by Clement D. Child in 1911, Child's law states that the space-charge limited current (SCLC) in a plane-parallel vacuum diode varies directly as the three-halves power of the anode voltage \"V\" and inversely as the square of the distance \"d\" separating the cathode and the anode.\n\nFor electrons, the current density \"J\" (amperes per meter squared) is written:\nwhere \"I\" is the anode current and \"S\" the anode surface inner area; formula_4 is the magnitude of the charge of the electron and formula_5 is its mass. The equation is also known as the \"three-halves power\" law and as the Child–Langmuir law. Child originally derived this equation for the case of atomic ions, which have much smaller ratios of their charge to their mass. Irving Langmuir published the application to electron currents in 1913, and extended it to the case of cylindrical cathodes and anodes.\n\nThe equation's validity is subject to the following assumptions:\n\nThe assumption of no scattering (ballistic transport) is what makes the predictions of Child–Langmuir Law different from those of Mott–Gurney Law. The latter assumes steady-state drift transport and therefore strong scattering.\n\nIn semiconductors and insulating materials, an electric field causes charged particles, electrons, to reach a specific drift velocity that is parallel to the direction of the field. This is different from the behavior of the free charged particles in a vacuum, in which a field accelerates the particle. The proportionality factor between the magnitudes of the drift velocity, formula_6, and the electric field, formula_7, is called the mobility, formula_8:\n\nThe Child's Law behavior of a space charge limited current that applies in a vacuum diode doesn't generally apply to a semiconductor/insulator in a single-carrier device, and is replaced by the Mott-Gurney law. For a thin slab of material of thickness formula_10, sandwiched between two selective Ohmic contacts, the electric current density, formula_11, flowing through the slab is given by:\n"}
{"id": "1911598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1911598", "title": "Swift (crater)", "text": "Swift (crater)\n\nSwift as a crater may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1753373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1753373", "title": "Terraces (Bahá'í)", "text": "Terraces (Bahá'í)\n\nThe Terraces of the Bahá'í Faith, also known as the Hanging Gardens of Haifa, are garden terraces around the Shrine of the Báb on Mount Carmel in Haifa, Israel. The gardens rest in the neighborhoods of Wadi Nisnas and Hadar HaCarmel. They are one of the most visited tourist attractions in Israel. The architect was Fariborz Sahba of Iran and the structural engineers were Karban and Co. of Haifa. Along with the Baha'i Holy Places in Western Galilee, it is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThe terraces represent the first eighteen disciples of the Báb, who were designated \"Letters of the Living\", although no individual terraces are connected with individual Letters.\n\nNine concentric circles provide the main geometry of the eighteen terraces. Just as the identification of a circle presupposes a centre, so the terraces have been conceived as generated from the Shrine of the Báb. The eighteen terraces plus the one terrace of the Shrine of the Báb make nineteen terraces total. Nineteen is a significant number within both the Bahá'í and Bábí religions.\n\nFariborz Sahba began work in 1987 designing the gardens and oversaw construction. The terraces were opened to the public in June 2001. Beginning at its base, the gardens extend almost up the side of Mount Carmel, covering some of land. The gardens are linked by a set of stairs flanked by twin streams of running water cascading down the mountainside through the steps and terrace bridges.\n\nThe gardens have elements of the Persian paradise gardens, isolating the site from the noise of the surroundings and connecting the different Bahá'í buildings on Mount Carmel together.\n\nThe irrigation system includes a computer which, based on meteorologic data it receives, controls hundreds of valves to distribute water throughout the gardens by sprinkling and dripping. This is done at night and in the early morning, to avoid wasting water by evaporation. The water that flows alongside the stairs is circulating in a closed system within each terrace, so that little water is wasted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13863149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13863149", "title": "The Goblin Reservation", "text": "The Goblin Reservation\n\nThe Goblin Reservation is a 1968 science fiction novel by American writer Clifford D. Simak, featuring an educated Neanderthal, a biomechanical sabertooth tiger, aliens that move about on wheels, a man who time-travels using an unreliable device implanted in his brain, a ghost, trolls, banshees, goblins, a dragon and even Shakespeare himself.\" The Goblin Reservation\" was a Hugo Award nominee in 1969 and was originally serialized in \"Galaxy Science Fiction\" magazine.\n\n\"The Goblin Reservation\" is the tale of Professor Peter Maxwell. It is set in the distant future when the Earth has been transformed into a university planet; a planet where creatures from all over the galaxy come to study, teach, and be entertained by the amazing discoveries that Earth is now rich with. Among the many things that Earth can now boast is Time University: a university devoted to slipping through time and discovering the truth about past events. People and creatures from the past are brought forward in time to be interviewed, studied and to provide entertainment for the people of the future. Among these are Alley Oop, a very smart, if at times crude, Neanderthal rescued from certain death and educated in the future. The creatures that people of the past always thought to be myth—such as trolls, fairies, goblins, and the like—have been discovered and placed on various reservations where they live and are studied by those working at Supernatural, a division of the planet-wide university.\n\nThe story begins when Peter Maxwell comes home to Earth only to discover that he has died. He is forced to investigate his own \"murder\" and discover who or what wanted him dead. He also returns with an additional mystery. He was apparently copied by unknown aliens and sent to a hidden crystal world that may have come from the universe that existed before ours.\n\nThe knowledge contained in the crystal planet could belong to Earth if Maxwell can discover what the intelligences remaining on the planet want. The alien race known as Wheelers want the Artifact, a monolith on display in a museum on Earth. The connection between the two provides the climax to the story. Before the events of the story, the University is expecting to close a lucrative deal for the Artifact, as well as mounting a prestigious series of talks by William Shakespeare in person. At the end, thanks to Maxwell, the deal is off, a dragon is on the loose, and Shakespeare has disappeared.\n\n\n\nHugo Awards 1969 nominee.\n\nIn a 2012 video interview with Gawker Media science fiction site io9, Hugo award-winning author Kim Stanley Robinson attributed \"The Goblin Reservation\" as the book that got him initially interested in science fiction.\n"}
{"id": "1389515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1389515", "title": "Triops", "text": "Triops\n\nTriops is a genus of small crustaceans in the order Notostraca (tadpole shrimp). Some species are considered living fossils, with a fossil record that reaches back to the late Carboniferous, . The long lasting resting eggs of one species, \"Triops longicaudatus\", are commonly sold in kits as a pet. In contact with fresh water the animals hatch. Most \"Triops\" have a life expectancy of up to 90 days (adult stage only; not including egg period), and can tolerate a pH range of 6–10. In nature they often inhabit temporary pools.\n\nThe genus \"Triops\" can be distinguished from the only other genus of Notostraca, \"Lepidurus\", by the form of the telson (the end of its 'tail'), which bears only a pair of long, thin caudal extensions in \"Triops\", while \"Lepidurus\" also bears a central platelike process. Only 24 hours after hatching they already resemble miniature versions of the adult form.\n\n\"Triops\" are sometimes called \"living fossils,\" since fossils attributable to this genus have been found in rocks of Carboniferous age, an estimated , and one extant species, \"Triops cancriformis\", has hardly changed since the Jurassic period (approximately ).\n\n\"Triops\" can be found in Africa, Australia, Asia, South America, Europe (including Great Britain), and in some parts of North America where the climate is right. Some eggs stay unhatched from the previous group and hatch when rain soaks the area. \"Triops\" are often found in vernal pools.\n\nMost species reproduce sexually, but some populations are dominated by hermaphrodites which produce internally fertilised eggs. Reproduction in \"T. cancriformis\" varies with latitude, with sexual reproduction dominating in the south of its range, and parthenogenesis dominating in the north.\n\n\"Triops\" eggs enter a state of extended diapause when dry, and will tolerate temperatures of up to for 16 hours, whereas the adult cannot survive temperatures above for 24 hours or for 2 hours. The diapause also prevents the eggs from hatching too soon after rain; the pool must fill with enough water for the dormancy to be broken.\n\nThe name \"Triops\" comes from the Greek \n(') meaning \"three\" and (') meaning \"eye\". The head of \"T. longicaudatus\" bears a pair of dorsal compound eyes that lie close to each other and are nearly fused together. The compound eyes are generally sessile (not stalked). In addition, there is a naupliar ocellus (the \"third eye\") between them. The compound eyes are on the surface of the head, but the ocellus is deep within the head. All the eyes, however, are easily visible through the shell covering of the head.\n\nFranz von Paula Schrank was the first author to use the genus name \"Triops\", coining it in his 1803 work on the fauna of Bavaria. Their German name was \"\", which means 'three-eye'. He collected and described specimens from the same locality in Regensburg from which Schäffer, another naturalist who had studied the Notostraca, obtained his specimens in the 1750s. However, other authors, starting with Louis Augustin Guillaume Bosc, had adopted the genus name \"Apus\" for the organisms Schrank had named \"Triops\"\n\nLudwig Keilhack used the genus name \"Triops\" in his 1909 field identification key of the freshwater fauna of Germany. He suggested that the genus name \"Apus\" be replaced by \"Triops\" Schrank since an avian genus had already been described by Giovanni Antonio Scopoli under the name \"Apus\". However, Robert Gurney preferred the name \"Apus\" Schäffer. He suggested that the name '…\"Triops\" Schrank, may be returned to the obscurity from which it was unearthed'. This controversy continued and was not resolved until the 1950s.\n\nIn his 1955 taxonomic review of the Notostraca, Alan R. Longhurst supported Keilhack's genus name \"Triops\" over \"Apus\". Longhurst provided historical evidence to support this position. The International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN) followed Longhurst in their 1958 ruling on the usage and origin of the genus names \"Triops\" and \"Apus\". They rejected the genus name \"Apus\" and instead recognized the genus name \"Triops\" Schrank, 1803 (ICZN name no. 1246).\n\nAlthough the taxonomy of the genus has not been reviewed since 1955, the following species are recognised:\n\n\"T. mauritanicus\" was considered a subspecies of \"T. cancriformis\" by Longhurst in 1955, but was given full species status again by Korn \"et al.\" in 2006.\n\nNote that for several of these species there are different varieties, some of which have recently been suggested as subspecies and even separate species. \"T. longicaudatus\", for example, may actually be several species lumped together, and \"T. cancriformis\" is generally recognized as having three subspecies: \"T. cancriformis cancriformis\",\n\"T. c. mauretanicus\", and \"T. c. simplex\". Also, the albino form has the special name of \"T. cancriformis\" var. \"Beni-Kabuto Ebi\".\n\nThe species is considered a human ally against the West Nile virus, as the individuals consume \"Culex\" mosquito larvae. They also are used as a biological agent in Japan, eating weeds in rice paddies. The Beni-Kabuto Ebi Albino variant of \"T. cancriformis\" is particularly valued for this purpose. In Wyoming, the presence of \"T. longicaudatus\" usually indicates a good chance of the hatching of spadefoot frogs.\n\nDried eggs of \"T. longicaudatus\" are sold in kits to be raised as aquarium pets, sold under the name of \"aquasaurs\", \"trigons\" or \"triops\". Among enthusiasts, \"T. cancriformis\" is also common. Other species often encountered in captivity include \"T. australiensis\", \"T. newberryi\" and \"T. granarius\". The red (albino?) forms of \"T. longicaudatus\" and \"T. cancriformis\" are also fairly common among enthusiasts and have been the subject of numerous YouTube videos.\n\nCaptive \"Triops\" are frequently kept in aquariums and fed a diet consisting mainly of carrots, shrimp pellets and dried shrimp. Often they are also given living shrimp and \"Daphnia\" as live prey. Because they can feed on just about anything they are also fed lunch meat, crackers, potatoes etc.\n\nThey will also feed themselves by grazing on algae and detritus from the bottom and sides of the tank, and on small particles clinging to sponge filters or to Marimo moss balls which are often cultured alongside \"Triops\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38403807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38403807", "title": "Worksop Bestiary", "text": "Worksop Bestiary\n\nThe Worksop Bestiary is a 12th-century illuminated manuscript containing a bestiary and other medieval Latin texts on natural history, largely compiled from the \"Physiologus\", the \"Imago mundi\" of Honorius Augustodunensis, the \"Etymologiae\" of St. Isidore of Seville, and an extract from the Book of Genesis. It also contains the text of a sermon on Saint Joseph, falsely ascribed to Saint Augustine.\n\nThe book is now in the Morgan Library & Museum, New York, as MS M. 81. The book was presented to the Augustinian Worksop Priory Church of Saint Mary and Saint Cuthbert (now Worksop Priory), by Philip, the canon of Lincoln Cathedral, in 1187. Later owners of the manuscript include the dukes of Hamilton, the Prussian government, William Morris, and Richard Bennett of Manchester, from whom the Pierpont Morgan library acquired it in 1902.\n\nThe book consists of 120 pages, contains 106 miniature illuminations, and is written in a black letter minuscule book hand. The current binding dates to the nineteenth century.\n"}
{"id": "33583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33583", "title": "World Health Organization", "text": "World Health Organization\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations that is concerned with international public health. It was established on 7 April 1948, and is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. The WHO is a member of the United Nations Development Group. Its predecessor, the Health Organization, was an agency of the League of Nations.\n\nThe constitution of the World Health Organization had been signed by 61 countries on 22 July 1946, with the first meeting of the World Health Assembly finishing on 22 July 1946. It incorporated the and the League of Nations Health Organization. Since its establishment, it has played a leading role in the eradication of smallpox. Its current priorities include communicable diseases, in particular HIV/AIDS, Ebola, malaria and tuberculosis; the mitigation of the effects of non-communicable diseases such as sexual and reproductive health, development, and aging; nutrition, food security and healthy eating; occupational health; substance abuse; and driving the development of reporting, publications, and networking.\n\nThe WHO is responsible for the World Health Report, the worldwide World Health Survey, and World Health Day. The current Director-General of the WHO is Tedros Adhanom, who started his five-year term on 1 July 2017.\n\nThe International Sanitary Conferences, originally held on 23 June 1851, were the first predecessors of the WHO. A series of 14 conferences that lasted from 1851 to 1938, the International Sanitary Conferences worked to combat many diseases, chief among them cholera, yellow fever, and the bubonic plague. The conferences were largely ineffective until the seventh, in 1892; when an International Sanitary Convention that dealt with cholera was passed. Five years later, a convention for the plague was signed. In part as a result of the successes of the Conferences, the Pan-American Sanitary Bureau, and the were soon founded in 1902 and 1907, respectively. When the League of Nations was formed in 1920, they established the Health Organization of the League of Nations. After World War II, the United Nations absorbed all the other health organizations, to form the WHO.\n\nDuring the 1945 United Nations Conference on International Organization, Szeming Sze, a delegate from China, conferred with Norwegian and Brazilian delegates on creating an international health organization under the auspices of the new United Nations. After failing to get a resolution passed on the subject, Alger Hiss, the Secretary General of the conference, recommended using a declaration to establish such an organization. Sze and other delegates lobbied and a declaration passed calling for an international conference on health. The use of the word \"world\", rather than \"international\", emphasized the truly global nature of what the organization was seeking to achieve. The constitution of the World Health Organization was signed by all 51 countries of the United Nations, and by 10 other countries, on 22 July 1946. It thus became the first specialized agency of the United Nations to which every member subscribed. Its constitution formally came into force on the first World Health Day on 7 April 1948, when it was ratified by the 26th member state. The first meeting of the World Health Assembly finished on 24 July 1948, having secured a budget of (then ) for the 1949 year. Andrija Stampar was the Assembly's first president, and G. Brock Chisholm was appointed Director-General of WHO, having served as Executive Secretary during the planning stages. Its first priorities were to control the spread of malaria, tuberculosis and sexually transmitted infections, and to improve maternal and child health, nutrition and environmental hygiene. Its first legislative act was concerning the compilation of accurate statistics on the spread and morbidity of disease. The logo of the World Health Organization features the Rod of Asclepius as a symbol for healing.\n\nIn 1947 the WHO established an epidemiological information service via telex, and by 1950 a mass tuberculosis inoculation drive using the BCG vaccine was under way. In 1955, the malaria eradication programme was launched, although it was later altered in objective. 1965 saw the first report on diabetes mellitus and the creation of the International Agency for Research on Cancer.\n\nIn 1958, Viktor Zhdanov, Deputy Minister of Health for the USSR, called on the World Health Assembly to undertake a global initiative to eradicate smallpox, resulting in Resolution WHA11.54. At this point, 2 million people were dying from smallpox every year.\n\nIn 1966, the WHO moved its headquarters from the Ariana wing at the Palace of Nations to a newly constructed HQ elsewhere in Geneva.\n\nIn 1967, the World Health Organization intensified the global smallpox eradication by contributing $2.4 million annually to the effort and adopted a new disease surveillance method. The initial problem the WHO team faced was inadequate reporting of smallpox cases. WHO established a network of consultants who assisted countries in setting up surveillance and containment activities. The WHO also helped contain the last European outbreak in Yugoslavia in 1972. After over two decades of fighting smallpox, the WHO declared in 1979 that the disease had been eradicated – the first disease in history to be eliminated by human effort. Also in 1967, the WHO launched the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases and the World Health Assembly voted to enact a resolution on Disability Prevention and Rehabilitation, with a focus on community-driven care.\n\nIn 1974, the Expanded Programme on Immunization and the control programme of onchocerciasis was started, an important partnership between the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the World Bank.\n\nIn 1977, the first list of essential medicines was drawn up, and a year later the ambitious goal of \"Health For All\" was declared.\n\nIn 1986, the WHO began its global programme on HIV/AIDS. Two years later preventing discrimination against sufferers was attended to and in 1996 UNAIDS was formed.\n\nIn 1988, the Global Polio Eradication Initiative was established.\n\nIn 1998, WHO's Director-General highlighted gains in child survival, reduced infant mortality, increased life expectancy and reduced rates of \"scourges\" such as smallpox and polio on the fiftieth anniversary of WHO's founding. He, did, however, accept that more had to be done to assist maternal health and that progress in this area had been slow.\n\nIn 2000, the Stop TB Partnership was created along with the UN's formulation of the Millennium Development Goals. In 2001 the measles initiative was formed, and credited with reducing global deaths from the disease by 68% by 2007. In 2002, The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria was drawn up to improve the resources available. In 2006, the organization endorsed the world's first official HIV/AIDS Toolkit for Zimbabwe, which formed the basis for a global prevention, treatment and support plan to fight the AIDS pandemic.\n\nThe WHO's Constitution states that its objective \"is the attainment by all people of the highest possible level of health\".\n\nThe WHO fulfills this objective through its functions as defined in its Constitution: (a) To act as the directing and coordinating authority on international health work; (b) To establish and maintain effective collaboration with the United Nations, specialized agencies, governmental health administrations, professional groups and such other organizations as may be deemed appropriate; (c) To assist Governments, upon request, in strengthening health services; (d) To furnish appropriate technical assistance and, in emergencies, necessary aid upon the request or acceptance of Governments; (e) To provide or assist in providing, upon the request of the United Nations, health services and facilities to special groups, such as the peoples of trust territories; (f) To establish and maintain such administrative and technical services as may be required, including epidemiological and statistical services; (g) to stimulate and advance work to eradicate epidemic, endemic and other diseases; (h) To promote, in co-operation with other specialized agencies where necessary, the prevention of accidental injuries; (i) To promote, in co-operation with other specialized agencies where necessary, the improvement of nutrition, housing, sanitation, recreation, economic or working conditions and other aspects of environmental hygiene; (j) To promote co-operation among scientific and professional groups which contribute to the advancement of health; (k) To propose conventions, agreements and regulations, and make recommendations with respect to international health matters and to perform.\n\n, the WHO has defined its role in public health as follows:\n\nThe 2012–2013 WHO budget identified 5 areas among which funding was distributed. Two of those five areas related to communicable diseases: the first, to reduce the \"health, social and economic burden\" of communicable diseases in general; the second to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in particular.\n\nAs of 2015, the WHO has worked within the UNAIDS network and strived to involve sections of society other than health to help deal with the economic and social effects of HIV/AIDS. In line with UNAIDS, WHO has set itself the interim task between 2009 and 2015 of reducing the number of those aged 15–24 years who are infected by 50%; reducing new HIV infections in children by 90%; and reducing HIV-related deaths by 25%.\n\nDuring the 1970s, WHO had dropped its commitment to a global malaria eradication campaign as too ambitious, it retained a strong commitment to malaria control. WHO's Global Malaria Programme works to keep track of malaria cases, and future problems in malaria control schemes. As of 2012, the WHO was to report as to whether RTS,S/AS01, were a viable malaria vaccine. For the time being, insecticide-treated mosquito nets and insecticide sprays are used to prevent the spread of malaria, as are antimalarial drugs – particularly to vulnerable people such as pregnant women and young children.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2010, WHO's help has contributed to a 40% decline in the number of deaths from tuberculosis, and since 2005, over 46 million people have been treated and an estimated 7 million lives saved through practices advocated by WHO. These include engaging national governments and their financing, early diagnosis, standardising treatment, monitoring of the spread and effect of tuberculosis and stabilising the drug supply. It has also recognized the vulnerability of victims of HIV/AIDS to tuberculosis.\n\nIn 1988, WHO launched the Global Polio Eradication Initiative to eradicate polio. It has also been successful in helping to reduce cases by 99% since which partnered WHO with Rotary International, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and smaller organizations. , it has been working to immunize young children and prevent the re-emergence of cases in countries declared \"polio-free\". In 2017, a study was conducted where why Polio Vaccines may not be enough to eradicate the Virus & conduct new technology. Polio is now on the verge of extinction, thanks to a Global Vaccination Drive. the World Health Organization (WHO) stated the eradication programme has saved millions from deadly disease. \n\nAnother of the thirteen WHO priority areas is aimed at the prevention and reduction of \"disease, disability and premature deaths from chronic noncommunicable diseases, mental disorders, violence and injuries, and visual impairment\". The Division of Noncommunicable Diseases for Promoting Health through the Life-course Sexual and Reproductive Health has published the magazine, \"Entre Nous\", across Europe since 1983.\n\nThe WHO estimates that 12.6 million people died as a result of living or working in an unhealthy environment in 2012 – this accounts for nearly 1 in 4 of total global deaths. Environmental risk factors, such as air, water and soil pollution, chemical exposures, climate change, and ultraviolet radiation, contribute to more than 100 diseases and injuries. This can result in a number of pollution-related diseases.\n\n\nWHO works to \"reduce morbidity and mortality and improve health during key stages of life, including pregnancy, childbirth, the neonatal period, childhood and adolescence, and improve sexual and reproductive health and promote active and healthy aging for all individuals\".\n\nIt also tries to prevent or reduce risk factors for \"health conditions associated with use of tobacco, alcohol, drugs and other psychoactive substances, unhealthy diets and physical inactivity and unsafe sex\".\n\nThe WHO works to improve nutrition, food safety and food security and to ensure this has a positive effect on public health and sustainable development.\n\nThe WHO promotes road safety as a means to reduce traffic-related injuries.\n\nThe WHO has also worked on global initiatives in surgery, including emergency and essential surgical care, trauma care, and safe surgery. The WHO Surgical Safety Checklist is in current use worldwide in the effort to improve patient safety.\n\nThe World Health Organization's primary objective in natural and man-made emergencies is to coordinate with member states and other stakeholders to \"reduce avoidable loss of life and the burden of disease and disability.\"\n\nOn 5 May 2014, WHO announced that the spread of polio was a world health emergency – outbreaks of the disease in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East were considered \"extraordinary\".\n\nOn 8 August 2014, WHO declared that the spread of Ebola was a public health emergency; an outbreak which was believed to have started in Guinea had spread to other nearby countries such as Liberia and Sierra Leone. The situation in West Africa was considered very serious.\n\nWHO addresses government health policy with two aims: firstly, \"to address the underlying social and economic determinants of health through policies and programmes that enhance health equity and integrate pro-poor, gender-responsive, and human rights-based approaches\" and secondly \"to promote a healthier environment, intensify primary prevention and influence public policies in all sectors so as to address the root causes of environmental threats to health\".\n\nThe organization develops and promotes the use of evidence-based tools, norms and standards to support member states to inform health policy options. It oversees the implementation of the International Health Regulations, and publishes a series of medical classifications; of these, three are over-reaching \"reference classifications\": the International Statistical Classification of Diseases (ICD), the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) and the International Classification of Health Interventions (ICHI). Other international policy frameworks produced by WHO include the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes (adopted in 1981), Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (adopted in 2003) and the Global Code of Practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel (adopted in 2010).\n\nIn terms of health services, WHO looks to improve \"governance, financing, staffing and management\" and the availability and quality of evidence and research to guide policy. It also strives to \"ensure improved access, quality and use of medical products and technologies\". WHO – working with donor agencies and national governments – can improve their use of and their reporting about their use of research evidence.\n\nThe remaining two of WHO's thirteen identified policy areas relate to the role of WHO itself:\n\nThe WHO along with the World Bank constitute the core team responsible for administering the International Health Partnership (IHP+). The IHP+ is a group of partner governments, development agencies, civil society and others committed to improving the health of citizens in developing countries. Partners work together to put international principles for aid effectiveness and development co-operation into practice in the health sector.\n\nThe organization relies on contributions from renowned scientists and professionals to inform its work, such as the WHO Expert Committee on Biological Standardization, the WHO Expert Committee on Leprosy, and the WHO Study Group on Interprofessional Education & Collaborative Practice.\n\nWHO runs the Alliance for Health Policy and Systems Research, targeted at improving health policy and systems.\n\nWHO also aims to improve access to health research and literature in developing countries such as through the HINARI network.\n\nWHO collaborates with the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, UNITAID, and the United States President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief to spearhead and fund the development of HIV programs. \n\nWHO created the Civil Society Reference Group on HIV, which brings together other networks that are involved in policy making and the dissemination of guidelines.\n\nWHO, a sector of the United Nations, partners with UNAIDS to contribute to the development of HIV responses in different areas of the world.\n\nWHO facilitates technical partnerships through the Technical Advisory Committee on HIV, which they created to develop WHO guidelines and policies.\n\nEach year, the organization marks World Health Day and other observances focusing on a specific health promotion topic. World Health Day falls on 7 April each year, timed to match the anniversary of WHO's founding. Recent themes have been vector-borne diseases (2014), healthy ageing (2012) and drug resistance (2011).\n\nThe other official global public health campaigns marked by WHO are World Tuberculosis Day, World Immunization Week, World Malaria Day, World No Tobacco Day, World Blood Donor Day, World Hepatitis Day, and World AIDS Day.\n\nAs part of the United Nations, the World Health Organization supports work towards the Millennium Development Goals. Of the eight Millennium Development Goals, three – reducing child mortality by two-thirds, to reduce maternal deaths by three-quarters, and to halt and begin to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS – relate directly to WHO's scope; the other five inter-relate and affect world health.\n\nThe World Health Organization works to provide the needed health and well-being evidence through a variety of data collection platforms, including the World Health Survey covering almost 400,000 respondents from 70 countries, and the \"Study on Global Aging and Adult Health\" (SAGE) covering over 50,000 persons over 50 years old in 23 countries. The Country Health Intelligence Portal (CHIP), has also been developed to provide an access point to information about the health services that are available in different countries. The information gathered in this portal is used by the countries to set priorities for future strategies or plans, implement, monitor, and evaluate it.\n\nThe WHO has published various tools for measuring and monitoring the capacity of national health systems and health workforces. The Global Health Observatory (GHO) has been the WHO's main portal which provides access to data and analyses for key health themes by monitoring health situations around the globe.\n\nThe \"WHO Assessment Instrument for Mental Health Systems\" (WHO-AIMS), the \"WHO Quality of Life Instrument\" (WHOQOL), and the \"Service Availability and Readiness Assessment\" (SARA) provide guidance for data collection. Collaborative efforts between WHO and other agencies, such as through the Health Metrics Network, also aim to provide sufficient high-quality information to assist governmental decision making. WHO promotes the development of capacities in member states to use and produce research that addresses their national needs, including through the Evidence-Informed Policy Network (EVIPNet). The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO/AMRO) became the first region to develop and pass a policy on research for health approved in September 2009.\n\nOn 10 December 2013, a new WHO database, known as MiNDbank, went online. The database was launched on Human Rights Day, and is part of WHO's QualityRights initiative, which aims to end human rights violations against people with mental health conditions. The new database presents a great deal of information about mental health, substance abuse, disability, human rights, and the different policies, strategies, laws, and service standards being implemented in different countries. It also contains important international documents and information. The database allows visitors to access the health information of WHO member states and other partners. Users can review policies, laws, and strategies and search for the best practices and success stories in the field of mental health.\n\nThe WHO regularly publishes a \"World Health Report\", its leading publication, including an expert assessment of a specific global health topic. Other publications of WHO include the \"Bulletin of the World Health Organization\", the \"Eastern Mediterranean Health Journal\" (overseen by EMRO), the \"Human Resources for Health\" (published in collaboration with BioMed Central), and the \"Pan American Journal of Public Health\" (overseen by PAHO/AMRO).\n\nIn 2016, the World Health Organization drafted a global health sector strategy on HIV. In the draft, the World Health Organization outlines its commitment to ending the AIDS epidemic by the year 2030 with interim targets for the year 2020. In order to make achievements towards these targets, the draft lists actions that countries and the WHO can take, such as a commitment to universal health coverage, medical accessibility, prevention and eradication of disease, and efforts to educate the public. Some notable points made in the draft include addressing gender inequity where females are nearly twice as likely as men to get infected with HIV and tailoring resources to mobilized regions where the health system may be compromised due to natural disasters, etc. Among the points made, it seems clear that although the prevalence of HIV transmission is declining, there is still a need for resources, health education, and global efforts to end this epidemic. \n\nThe World Health Organization is a member of the United Nations Development Group.\n\n, the WHO has 194 member states: all of them Member States of the United Nations except for the Cook Islands and Niue. (A state becomes a full member of WHO by ratifying the treaty known as the Constitution of the World Health Organization.) , it also had two associate members, Puerto Rico and Tokelau. Several other countries have been granted observer status. Palestine is an observer as a \"national liberation movement\" recognized by the League of Arab States under United Nations Resolution 3118. The Holy See also attends as an observer, as does the Order of Malta. In 2010, Taiwan was invited under the name of \"Republic of China\".\n\nWHO Member States appoint delegations to the World Health Assembly, WHO's supreme decision-making body. All UN Member States are eligible for WHO membership, and, according to the WHO website, \"other countries may be admitted as members when their application has been approved by a simple majority vote of the World Health Assembly\". Liechtenstein is currently the only UN member not in the WHO membership.\n\nIn addition, the UN observer organizations International Committee of the Red Cross and International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies have entered into \"official relations\" with WHO and are invited as observers. In the World Health Assembly they are seated alongside the other NGOs.\n\nThe World Health Assembly (WHA) is the legislative and supreme body of WHO. Based in Geneva, it typically meets yearly in May. It appoints the Director-General every five years and votes on matters of policy and finance of WHO, including the proposed budget. It also reviews reports of the Executive Board and decides whether there are areas of work requiring further examination. The Assembly elects 34 members, technically qualified in the field of health, to the Executive Board for three-year terms. The main functions of the Board are to carry out the decisions and policies of the Assembly, to advise it and to facilitate its work. The current chairman of the executive board is Dr. Assad Hafeez.\n\nThe regional divisions of WHO were created between 1949 and 1952, and are based on article 44 of the WHO's constitution, which allowed the WHO to \"establish a [single] regional organization to meet the special needs of [each defined] area\". Many decisions are made at regional level, including important discussions over WHO's budget, and in deciding the members of the next assembly, which are designated by the regions.\n\nEach region has a Regional Committee, which generally meets once a year, normally in the autumn. Representatives attend from each member or associative member in each region, including those states that are not fully recognized. For example, Palestine attends meetings of the Eastern Mediterranean Regional office. Each region also has a regional office. Each Regional Office is headed by a Regional Director, who is elected by the Regional Committee. The Board must approve such appointments, although as of 2004, it had never over-ruled the preference of a regional committee. The exact role of the board in the process has been a subject of debate, but the practical effect has always been small. Since 1999, Regional Directors serve for a once-renewable five-year term, and typically take their position on 1 February.\n\nEach Regional Committee of the WHO consists of all the Health Department heads, in all the governments of the countries that constitute the Region. Aside from electing the Regional Director, the Regional Committee is also in charge of setting the guidelines for the implementation, within the region, of the health and other policies adopted by the World Health Assembly. The Regional Committee also serves as a progress review board for the actions of WHO within the Region.\n\nThe Regional Director is effectively the head of WHO for his or her Region. The RD manages and/or supervises a staff of health and other experts at the regional offices and in specialized centres. The RD is also the direct supervising authority—concomitantly with the WHO Director-General—of all the heads of WHO country offices, known as WHO Representatives, within the Region.\n\nThe head of the organization is the Director-General, elected by the World Health Assembly. The term lasts for 5 years, and Director-Generals are typically appointed in May, when the Assembly meets. The current Director-General is Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who was appointed on 1 July 2017.\n\nThe WHO employs 8,500 people in 147 countries. In support of the principle of a tobacco-free work environment, the WHO does not recruit cigarette smokers. The organization has previously instigated the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in 2003.\n\nThe WHO operates \"Goodwill Ambassadors\"; members of the arts, sports, or other fields of public life aimed at drawing attention to WHO's initiatives and projects. There are currently five Goodwill Ambassadors (Jet Li, Nancy Brinker, Peng Liyuan, Yohei Sasakawa and the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra) and a further ambassador associated with a partnership project (Craig David).\n\nThe World Health Organization operates 150 country offices in six different regions. It also operates several liaison offices, including those with the European Union, United Nations and a single office covering the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. It also operates the International Agency for Research on Cancer in Lyon, France, and the WHO Centre for Health Development in Kobe, Japan. Additional offices include those in Pristina; the West Bank and Gaza; the US-Mexico Border Field Office in El Paso; the Office of the Caribbean Program Coordination in Barbados; and the Northern Micronesia office. There will generally be one WHO country office in the capital, occasionally accompanied by satellite-offices in the provinces or sub-regions of the country in question.\n\nThe country office is headed by a WHO Representative (WR). , the only WHO Representative outside Europe to be a national of that country was for the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (\"Libya\"); all other staff were international. WHO Representatives in the Region termed the Americas are referred to as PAHO/WHO Representatives. In Europe, WHO Representatives also serve as Head of Country Office, and are nationals with the exception of Serbia; there are also Heads of Country Office in Albania, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkey, and Uzbekistan. The WR is member of the UN system country team which is coordinated by the UN System Resident Coordinator.\n\nThe country office consists of the WR, and several health and other experts, both foreign and local, as well as the necessary support staff. The main functions of WHO country offices include being the primary adviser of that country's government in matters of health and pharmaceutical policies.\n\nThe WHO is financed by contributions from member states and outside donors. , the largest annual assessed contributions from member states came from the United States ($110 million), Japan ($58 million), Germany ($37 million), United Kingdom ($31 million) and France ($31 million). The combined 2012–2013 budget has proposed a total expenditure of $3,959 million, of which $944 million (24%) will come from assessed contributions. This represented a significant fall in outlay compared to the previous 2009–2010 budget, adjusting to take account of previous underspends. Assessed contributions were kept the same. Voluntary contributions will account for $3,015 million (76%), of which $800 million is regarded as highly or moderately flexible funding, with the remainder tied to particular programmes or objectives.\n\nIn recent years, the WHO's work has involved increasing collaboration with external bodies. , a total of 473 non-governmental organizations (NGO) had some form of partnership with WHO. There were 189 partnerships with international NGOs in formal \"official relations\" – the rest being considered informal in character. Partners include the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nIn 1959, the WHO signed Agreement WHA 12–40 with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). A selective reading of this document (clause 3) can result in the understanding that the IAEA is able to prevent the WHO from conducting research or work on some areas, as seen hereafter. The agreement states here that the WHO recognizes the IAEA as having responsibility for peaceful nuclear energy without prejudice to the roles of the WHO of promoting health. However, the following paragraph adds that \n\n\"whenever either organization proposes to initiate a programme or activity on a subject in which the other organization has or may have a substantial interest, the first party shall consult the other with a view to adjusting the matter by mutual agreement\". \n\nThe nature of this statement has led some pressure groups and activists (including Women in Europe for a Common Future) to claim that the WHO is restricted in its ability to investigate the effects on human health of radiation caused by the use of nuclear power and the continuing effects of nuclear disasters in Chernobyl and Fukushima. They believe WHO must regain what they see as \"independence\". However as pointed out by Foreman in clause 2 it states.\n\n“2. In particular, and in accordance with the Constitution of the World Health Organization and the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency and its agreement with the United Nations together with the exchange of letters related thereto, and taking into account the respective co-ordinating responsibilities of both organizations, it is recognized by the World Health Organization that the International Atomic Energy Agency has the primary responsibility for encouraging, assisting and co- ordinating research and development and practical application of atomic energy for peaceful uses throughout the world without prejudice to the right of the World Health Organization to concern itself with promoting, developing, assisting and co-ordinating international health work, including research, in all its aspects.”\n\nClearly suggesting that the WHO is free to do as it sees fit on nuclear, radiation and other matters which relate to health.\n\nIn 2003, the WHO denounced the Roman Curia's health department's opposition to the use of condoms, saying: \"These incorrect statements about condoms and HIV are dangerous when we are facing a global pandemic which has already killed more than 20 million people, and currently affects at least 42 million.\" , the Catholic Church remains opposed to increasing the use of contraception to combat HIV/AIDS. At the time, the World Health Assembly President, Guyana's Health Minister Leslie Ramsammy, has condemned Pope Benedict's opposition to contraception, saying he was trying to \"create confusion\" and \"impede\" proven strategies in the battle against the disease.\n\nThe aggressive support of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for intermittent preventive therapy of malaria triggered a memo from the former WHO malaria chief Akira Kochi.\n\nSome of the research undertaken or supported by WHO to determine how people's lifestyles and environments are influencing whether they live in better or worse health can be controversial, as illustrated by a 2003 joint WHO/FAO report on nutrition and the prevention of chronic non-communicable disease, which recommended that sugar should form no more than 10% of a healthy diet. The report led to lobbying by the sugar industry against the recommendation, to which the WHO/FAO responded by including in the report this statement: \"The Consultation recognized that a population goal for free sugars of less than 10% of total energy is controversial\". It also stood by its recommendation based upon its own analysis of scientific studies. In 2014, WHO reduced recommended sugar levels by half and said that sugar should make up no more than 5% of a healthy diet.\n\nIn 2007, the WHO organized work on pandemic influenza vaccine development through clinical trials in collaboration with many experts and health officials. A pandemic involving the H1N1 influenza virus was declared by the then Director-General Margaret Chan in April 2009. Margret Chan declared in 2010 that the H1N1 has moved into the post-pandemic period.\n\nBy the post-pandemic period critics claimed the WHO had exaggerated the danger, spreading \"fear and confusion\" rather than \"immediate information\". Industry experts countered that the 2009 pandemic had led to \"unprecedented collaboration between global health authorities, scientists and manufacturers, resulting in the most comprehensive pandemic response ever undertaken, with a number of vaccines approved for use three months after the pandemic declaration. This response was only possible because of the extensive preparations undertaken during the last decade\".\n\nFollowing the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa, the organization was heavily criticized for its bureaucracy, insufficient financing, regional structure, and staffing profile.\n\nAn internal WHO report on the Ebola response pointed to underfunding and the lack of \"core capacity\" in health systems in developing countries as the primary weaknesses of the existing system. At the annual World Health Assembly in 2015, Director-General Margaret Chan announced a $100 million Contingency Fund for rapid response to future emergencies, of which it had received $26.9 million by April 2016 (for 2017 disbursement). WHO has budgeted an additional $494 million for its Health Emergencies Programme in 2016–17, for which it had received $140 million by April 2016.\n\nThe program was aimed at rebuilding WHO capacity for direct action, which critics said had been lost due to budget cuts in the previous decade that had left the organization in an advisory role dependent on member states for on-the-ground activities. In comparison, billions of dollars have been spent by developed countries on the 2013–2016 Ebola epidemic and 2015–16 Zika epidemic.\n\nThe WHO has a Framework Convention on Tobacco implementation database which is one of the only mechanisms to help enforce compliance with the FCTC. However, there have been reports of numerous discrepancies between it and national implementation reports on which it was built. As researchers Hoffman and Rizvi report \"As of July 4, 2012, 361 (32·7%) of 1104 countries' responses were misreported: 33 (3·0%) were clear errors (eg, database indicated “yes” when report indicated “no”), 270 (24·5%) were missing despite countries having submitted responses, and 58 (5·3%) were, in our opinion, misinterpreted by WHO staff\".\n\nThe World Health Organization sub-department, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), has been criticized for the way it analyses the tendency of certain substances and activities to cause cancer and for having a politically motivated bias when it selects studies for its analysis. Ed Yong, a British science journalist, has criticized the agency and its \"confusing\" category system for misleading the public. Marcel Kuntz, a French director of research at the French National Centre for Scientific Research, criticized the agency for its classification of potentially carcinogenic substances. He claimed that this classification did not take into account the extent of exposure: for example, red meat is qualified as probably carcinogenic, but the quantity of consumed red meat at which it could become dangerous is not specified.\n\nControversies have erupted multiple times when the IARC has classified many things as Class 2a (probable carcinogens), including cell phone signals, glyphosate, drinking hot beverages, and working as a barber.\n\nPolitical pressure from China has led to Taiwan being barred from membership of the WHO and other UN-affiliated organizations, and in both 2017 and 2018 the WHO refused to allow Taiwanese delegates to attend the WHO annual assembly. On multiple occasions Taiwanese journalists have been denied access to report on the assembly.\n\nIn May 2018, 172 members of the United States House of Representatives wrote to the Director General of the World Health Organization to argue for Taiwan's inclusion as an observer at the WHA.\n\nAccording to The Associated Press, the WHO routinely spends about $200 million a year on travel expenses, more than it spends to tackle mental health problems, HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria combined. In 2016, Margaret Chan, Director-General of WHO from November 2006 to June 2017, stayed in a $1000 per night hotel room while visiting West Africa.\n\nOn 21 October 2017, the Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus appointed former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe as a WHO Goodwill Ambassador to help promote the fight against non-communicable diseases. The appointment address praised Mugabe for his commitment to public health in Zimbabwe.\n\nThe appointment attracted widespread condemnation and criticism in WHO member states and international organizations due to Robert Mugabe's poor record on human rights and presiding over a decline in Zimbabwe's public health. Due to the outcry, the following day the appointment was revoked.\n\nThe seat of the organization is in Geneva, Switzerland. It was designed by Swiss architect Jean Tschumi and inaugurated in 1966. In 2017, the organization launched an international competition to redesign and extend its headquarters.\n\n"}
