{"id": "58147674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58147674", "title": "Antiguan constitutional referendum, 2018", "text": "Antiguan constitutional referendum, 2018\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Antigua and Barbuda on 6 November 2018, the first referendum in the country's history. The proposed constitutional amendment, which ultimately failed to pass, would have made the Caribbean Court of Justice the final court of appeal, replacing the London-based Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. A quorum of 66.6 % of the valid votes in favour was required for the amendment to be approved.\n\nGrenada also held a referendum on joining the CCJ on the same day; that vote also failed to pass.\n\nVoters were asked to respond YES or NO to the following question:\n\nThe final vote tally gave totals of 8,509 for the amendment and 9,234 against. Turnout was 33.6% of the electorate.\n"}
{"id": "26660710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26660710", "title": "Area of freedom, security and justice", "text": "Area of freedom, security and justice\n\nThe area of freedom, security and justice (AFSJ) is a collection of home affairs and justice policies designed to ensure security, rights and free movement within the European Union (EU). Areas covered include the harmonisation of private international law, extradition arrangements between member states, policies on internal and external border controls, common travel visa, immigration and asylum policies and police and judicial cooperation.\n\nAs internal borders have been removed within the EU, cross-border police cooperation has had to increase to counter cross-border crime. Some notable projects related to the area are the European Arrest Warrant, the Schengen Area and Frontex patrols.\n\nThe area comes under the purview of the European Commissioner for Justice, Fundamental Rights and Citizenship and the European Commissioner for Home Affairs. They deal with the following matters: EU citizenship; combating discrimination, drugs, organised crime, terrorism, human trafficking; free movement of people, asylum and immigration; judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters; police and customs cooperation; and these matters in the acceding countries.\n\nThe relevant European Commission departments are the DG for Justice and the DG Home Affairs. However, there are also Eurojust and Europol, which develop judicial and police cooperation respectively. Related to the latter there is also the European Police College, the European Police Chiefs Task Force and Frontex.\n\nOver the years, the EU has developed a wide competence in the area of justice and home affairs. To this end, agencies have been established that co-ordinate associated actions: Europol for co-operation of police forces, Eurojust for co-operation between prosecutors, and Frontex for co-operation between border control authorities. The EU also operates the Schengen Information System which provides a common database for police and immigration authorities throughout the borderless Schengen Area.\n\nFurthermore, the Union has legislated in areas such as extradition (such as the European Arrest Warrant), family law, asylum law, and criminal justice. Prohibitions against sexual and nationality discrimination have a long standing in the treaties.<ref name=\"art39/141 Rome\">See Articles 157 (ex Article 141) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Eur-lex.europa.eu</ref> In more recent years, these have been supplemented by powers to legislate against discrimination based on race, religion, disability, age, and sexual orientation. By virtue of these powers, the EU has enacted legislation on sexual discrimination in the work-place, age discrimination, and racial discrimination.\n\nIn 2006, a toxic waste spill off the coast of Côte d'Ivoire, from a European ship, prompted the Commission to look into legislation against toxic waste. Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas stated that \"Such highly toxic waste should never have left the European Union\". With countries such as Spain not even having a law against shipping toxic waste Franco Frattini, the Justice, Freedom and Security Commissioner, proposed with Dimas to create criminal sentences for \"ecological crimes\". His right to do this was contested in 2005 at the Court of Justice resulting in a victory for the Commission. That ruling set a precedent that the Commission, on a supranational basis, may legislate in criminal law. So far though, the only other use has been the intellectual property rights directive. Motions were tabled in the European Parliament against that legislation on the basis that criminal law should not be an EU competence, but were rejected at vote. However, in October 2007 the Court of Justice ruled the Commission could not propose what the criminal sanctions could be, only that there must be some.\n\nThe European Commission has listed seven offences that become European crimes. The seven crimes announced by the Commission are counterfeiting euro notes and coins; credit card and cheque fraud; money laundering; people-trafficking; computer hacking and virus attacks; corruption in the private sector; and marine pollution. The possible future EU crimes are racial discrimination and incitement to racial hatred; organ trade; and corruption in awarding public contracts. It will also set out the level of penalty, such as length of prison sentence, that would apply to each crime.\n\nThe first steps in security and justice cooperation within the EU began in 1975 when the TREVI group was created, composed of member states' justice and home affairs ministers. The first real cooperation was the signing of the Schengen Implementing Convention in 1990 which opened up the EU's internal borders and established the Schengen Area. In parallel the Dublin Regulation furthered police cooperation.\n\nCooperation on policies such as immigration and police cooperation was formally introduced in the Maastricht Treaty which established Justice and Home Affairs (JHA) as one of the EU's 'three pillars'. The Justice and Home Affairs pillar was organised on an intergovernmental basis with little involvement of the EU supranational institutions such as the European Commission and the European Parliament. Under this pillar the EU created the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) in 1993 and Europol in 1995. In 1997 the EU adopted an action plan against organised crime and established the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC). In 1998 the European Judicial Network in criminal matters (EJN) was established.\n\nThe idea of an area of freedom, security and justice was introduced in May 1999, in the Treaty of Amsterdam, which stated that the EU must \"maintain and develop the Union as an area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement of persons is assured in conjunction with appropriate measures with respect to external border controls, asylum, immigration and the prevention and combating of crime.\" The first work programme putting this provision into effect was agreed at Tampere, Finland in October 1999. Subsequently, the Hague programme, agreed in November 2004, set further objectives to be achieved between 2005 and 2010.\n\nThe Treaty of Amsterdam also transferred the areas of asylum, immigration and judicial cooperation in civil matters from the JHA to the European Community pillar, the remainder being renamed Police and Judicial Co-operation in Criminal Matters (PJCC).\n\nDuring this time further advancements were made. In 2000 the European Police College was created along with numerous conventions and agreements. The Treaty of Nice enshrined Eurojust in the EU treaties and in 2001 and 2002 Eurojust, Eurodac, the European Judicial Network in Civil and Commercial Matters (EJNCC) and European Crime Prevention Network (EUCPN) were established. In 2004 the EU appointed an anti-terrorism coordinator in response to the 2004 Madrid train bombings and the European Arrest Warrant (agreed in 2002) entered into force.\n\nThe 2009 Treaty of Lisbon abolished the pillar structure, reuniting the areas separated at Amsterdam. The European Parliament and Court of Justice gained a say over the whole area while the Council changed to majority voting for the remaining PJCC matters. The Charter of Fundamental Rights also gained legal force and Europol was brought within the EU's legal framework. As the Treaty of Lisbon came into force, the European Council adopted the Stockholm Programme to provide EU action on developing the area over the following five years.\n\nThere has been criticism that the EU's activities have been too focused on security and not on justice. For example, the EU created the European Arrest Warrant but no common rights for defendants arrested under it. With the strengthened powers under Lisbon, the second Barroso Commission created a dedicated commissioner for justice (previously combined with security under one portfolio) who is obliging member states to provide reports on their implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Furthermore, the Commission is putting forward proposals for common rights for defendants (such as interpretation), minimum standards for prison conditions and ensure that victims of crime are taken care of properly wherever they are in the EU. This is intended to create a common judicial area where each system can be sure of trusting each other.\n\nDenmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom all have various opt-outs from the border control, asylum policy, police and judicial cooperation provisions that are part of the area of freedom, security and justice. While Ireland and the United Kingdom have opt-ins that allow them to participate in legislation on a case-by-case basis, Denmark is fully outside the area of freedom, security and justice.\n\nDenmark has nonetheless been fully implementing the Schengen \"acquis\" since 25 March 2001, but on an intergovernmental basis.\n\nThe United Kingdom applied to participate in several areas of the Schengen \"acquis\", including the police and judicial cooperation provisions, in March 1999. Their request was approved by a Council Decision in 2000 and fully implemented by a Decision of the Council of the EU with effect from 1 January 2005.\n\nWhile Ireland also applied to participate in the police and judicial cooperation provisions of the Schengen \"acquis\" in June 2000, and were approved by a Council Decision in 2002, this has not been implemented.\n\nThe European Union's growing role in coordinating internal security and safety policies is only partly captured by looking at policymaking within the area of freedom, security and justice. Across the EU's other (former) pillars, initiatives related to food security, health safety, infrastructure protection, counter-terrorism and energy security can be found. New perspectives and concepts have been introduced to examine the EU's wider internal security role for the EU, such as the EU's \"protection policy space\" or internal \"security governance\". Furthermore, EU cooperation not covered by a limited lens of the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice—namely EU cooperation during urgent emergencies and complex crises—has received a growing amount of attention.\n\nThere have been proposals by the European Commission to upgrade the border agency Frontex, which is responsible for overseeing the security of the EU's external borders. This new body, called the European Border and Coastguard Agency, would involve having a pool of armed guards, drawn from different EU member states, that can be dispatched to EU countries at three days' notice. Although the European Border and Coastguard Agency has been called an \"EU Navy\", it would function more in a supervisory capacity. The border agencies of host countries would still retain day-to-day control, and the personnel from the new agency would be required to submit to the direction of the country where they are deployed. However, interventions could potentially happen against the wishes of a host country. They include instances such as \"disproportionate migratory pressure\" occurring on a country's border. For this intervention to happen, the new border agency would have to gain consent from the European Commission. Under these proposals, border guards would be allowed to carry guns. The agency would also be able to acquire its own supply of patrol ships and helicopters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8388359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8388359", "title": "Article 10 of the Constitution of Malaysia", "text": "Article 10 of the Constitution of Malaysia\n\nArticle 10 of the Constitution of Malaysia guarantees Malaysian citizens the right to freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and freedom of association. Unlike comparable provisions in constitutional law such as the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, Article 10 entitles citizens to such freedoms as are not restricted by the government, instead of absolutely guaranteeing those freedoms.\n\n\nThe Constitution of the independent Federation of Malaya — which later merged with Singapore, Sabah and Sarawak to form Malaysia — was drafted by the Reid Commission, a body of eminent jurists from the Commonwealth of Nations. In its report, the Commission recommended that the Constitution protect \"certain fundamental individual rights which are as essential conditions for a free and democratic way of life\". Although the commissioners avoided recommending that these rights be entrenched — finding that they were \"...all firmly established in Malaya\" — they nevertheless felt that in light of \"vague apprehensions about the future\", it would be well to provide some constitutional safeguards for these rights. The \"vague apprehensions\" were mainly those of the non-Malays, who feared that an independent Malaya would be dominated politically by the Malays (see \"ketuanan Melayu\"). The Reid Commission thus recommended that the rights \"...should be guaranteed in the Constitution and the courts should have the power of enforcing these rights\".\n\nThe draft Constitution prepared by the Commission included an Article 10 largely similar to the one eventually included in the final Constitution. However, the draft first clause differed in one important respect:\n\nThe other clauses covering freedom of assembly and association also similarly referred to a \"reasonable restriction\". Justice Abdul Hamid of Pakistan, a member of the Commission, wrote a strong dissenting view that was included in the final report of the Commission. His dissent criticised, among others, the draft versions of Article 4 and Article 10. Hamid objected to the inclusion of the word \"reasonable\", stating:\n\nThe Working Committee established by the autonomous Federation's government adopted nearly all of Hamid's recommendations in his dissent, thereby eliminating the possibility of judicial review concerning the reasonableness of laws which infringed on the rights granted by Article 10. One legal commentator has stated:\n\nLord William Reid, who chaired the Commission, said that:\n\nDuring the debate over the draft Constitution in the Federal Legislative Council, K.L. Devaser, an Alliance government backbencher, criticised the changes, arguing:\n\nOver his objections, the Legislative Council approved the modified draft. This version of the Constitution, which contained an Article 10 much more similar to the present day version, also included a new Article 4(2) which provides that \"The validity of any law shall not be questioned on the ground that...it imposes such restrictions as are mentioned in Article 10(2)\". In light of these changes, a Malaysian lawyer has argued that \"It is clear ... that freedoms of ... speech, assembly and association (Article 10) were intended to be restricted \"Ab initio\".\"\n\nSeveral acts of law regulate the freedoms granted by Article 10, such as the Official Secrets Act, which makes it a crime to disseminate information classified as an official secret. The Sedition Act 1948 makes it an offence to engage in acts with a \"seditious tendency\", including but not limited to the spoken word and publications; conviction may result in a sentence of a fine up to RM5,000, three years in jail, or both. The Public Order (Preservation) Ordinance 1958 allows the Police to declare certain areas \"restricted\", and to regulate processions or meetings of five persons or more. The maximum sentence for the violation of a restricted area order is imprisonment of 10 years and whipping.\n\nOther laws curtailing the freedoms of Article 10 are the Police Act 1967, which criminalises the gathering of three or more people in a public place without a licence, and the Printing Presses and Publications Act 1984, which grants the Home Affairs Minister \"absolute discretion\" in the granting and revoking of publishing permits, and also makes it a criminal offense to possess a printing press without a licence.\n\nThe Sedition Act in particular has been widely commented upon by jurists for the bounds it places on freedom of speech. Justice Raja Azlan Shah (later the Yang di-Pertuan Agong) once said:\n\nIn 2009, the government announced it was considering amendment of several laws which impinge upon freedom of speech, including the controversial Internal Security Act (ISA), which has been used to detain numerous politicians and activists without trial. Home Minister Hishammuddin Hussein, accompanied by Inspector-General of Police Musa Hassan, Attorney General Abdul Gani Patail, Information, Communication, and Culture Minister Rais Yatim, and Minister in the Prime Minister's Department Nazri Aziz, told the press that the ISA, Police Act, Multimedia and Communications Act, the Restrictive Residence Ordinance, and the Emergency Ordinance would be reviewed with an eye to relaxing restrictions on freedom of speech. Rais also said that the Police Act would include provisions allowing peaceful assembly in certain designated places such as stadiums, without the need to obtain a permit from the police. The government plans to table amendments to these laws during the October sitting of Parliament, and pass them by December.\n\nLegal scholars have suggested that compared to other fundamental liberties set out in Part II of the Constitution, the freedoms of speech, association and assembly are easily abridged by both the executive and legislative branches of the government. Most of these freedoms, such as freedom from slavery, double jeopardy, etc., are not subjected to the same exclusions as set out in Article 10(2), (3) and (4). Instead, they are rights which are guaranteed without any qualification. The rights of Article 10 are subject to the exclusions of the aforementioned clauses. Under Articles 149 and 150, during a state of emergency, the executive is granted the power to legislate, even if the resulting laws contravene the Constitution; however, this power does not extend to any matter pertaining to Islamic law, Malay customs, the customs of the indigenous peoples of Sabah and Sarawak, religion in general, citizenship, and language. In light of this, one scholar (Shad Saleem Faruqi) has gone as far as to argue that:\n\nIt has been remarked that although the \"fundamental\" rights of Article 10 were not entrenched, other portions of the Constitution — namely those related to the Malaysian social contract such as those provisions concerning the national language of Malay, the national religion of Islam, the position of the Malay rulers, the special position of the Malay majority, and citizenship — were entrenched. These provisions may only be amended with the consent of the Conference of Rulers — a body comprising the Malay rulers and the Governors of those states without a monarch. In criticising the Reid Commission's finding that the freedoms of Article 10 were \"all firmly established in Malaya\" prior to independence, it has been suggested that:\n\n"}
{"id": "32320408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32320408", "title": "Asian Journal of International Law", "text": "Asian Journal of International Law\n\nThe Asian Journal of International Law is a peer-reviewed law review focusing on public and private international law. It is an official publication of the Asian Society of International Law and is published by Cambridge University Press. It is produced by the National University of Singapore Faculty of Law and succeeds the \"Singapore Year Book of International Law\". The editors-in-chief are Antony Anghie, Simon Chesterman, and Tan Hsien-Li.\n\nThe first issue, published in January 2011, included articles by leading Asian scholars and practitioners such as Hisashi Owada, Xue Hanqin, B. S. Chimni, Tommy Koh, Onuma Yasuaki, and Michael Hwang.\n\nThe launch of the Journal was welcomed as, perhaps, exemplifying a newly assertive Asia challenging the West in intellectual as well as economic terms.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "1958436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1958436", "title": "Bavarian State Library", "text": "Bavarian State Library\n\nThe Bavarian State Library (, abbreviated BSB, called Bibliotheca Regia Monacensis before 1919) in Munich is the central \"Landesbibliothek\", i. e. the state library of the Free State of Bavaria and one of Europe's most important universal libraries. With its collections currently comprising around 10.36 million books (as of 2016), it ranks among the best research libraries worldwide. Moreover, its historical stock encompasses one of the most important manuscript collections of the world, the largest collection of incunabula worldwide, as well as numerous further important special collections.\n\nThe legal deposit law has been in force since 1663, regulating that two copies of every printed work published in Bavaria have to be submitted to the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek. This law is still applicable today. The Bayerische Staatsbibliothek furthermore is Europe's second-largest journals library (after the British Library). The BSB publishes the specialist journal Bibliotheksforum Bayern and has been publishing the Bibliotheksmagazin together with the Berlin State Library since 2007. Its building is situated in the Ludwigstrasse.\n\n\nIn 2016, the library counted 69,500 registered users and 1,460,000 loans. The reading rooms of the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek are used by around 3,000 readers every day. In the general reading room, open daily from 8 AM to 12 PM, approximately 111,000 volumes, primarily reference works, are freely accessible. In the periodicals reading room around 18,000 topical issues of current periodicals are available. The departments of manuscripts and early printed books, maps and images, music, as well as Eastern Europe, Orient and East Asia have their own reading rooms with open-access collections. Every day approximately 1,500 volumes are collected from the repositories and provided for use in the general reading room.\nIn 2010, a new research reading room was opened, focusing on Historical Sciences and Bavarian History and Culture (Aventinus Reading Room).\n\n\n\nSince April, 1st 2015 Klaus Ceynowa is director general of the Bavarian State Library. The head office, the assistants to the directors and the public relations department are also part of the directorate.\n\nDirectors general:\n\nThe central administration is in charge of general administrative management; moreover, it acts as a service provider for all areas of the library. The department is responsible for the areas \"budget\", \"human resources\" and \"internal services, construction\".\n\nThis department acquires all types of media (in the form or by way of presents, purchase, licensing, deposit copies and swapping items), and catalogues and indexes them both formally and according to subject. The Munich Digitisation Centre is a section of the department. It handles the digitisation and online publication of the cultural heritage preserved by the Bavarian State Library and by other institutions. It provides one of the largest and fastest growing digital collections in Germany. The department is also responsible for conservation and collection care. This division protects the media published from the year 1850 onward against damage and decay. It secures their long-term availability.\n\nThe user services department acts as an agent of the collections and services of the library. The department consists of the divisions of document provision, document administration, document delivery and information- and reading-room services.\n\nThe department of manuscripts and early printed books is responsible for the most valuable historical collections of the library. The worldwide renown of the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek is founded on this precious heritage. The department has a separate reading room that is specially equipped for working with old books.\n\nThis department administrates printed maps from the year 1500 up to the present, atlases, cartographic material and the image archive of the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek. The image archive also includes parts of the archives of Heinrich Hoffmann, Bernhard Johannes and Felicitas Timpe. The Map Collection and Image Archive also have - together with the department of music -their own reading room.\n\nThe Department of Music ranks among the world's leading music libraries, due to both the quantity and quality of its historical collections and its broad acquisition profile. Its beginnings date back to the 16th century. The area of collection emphasis \"musicology\" of the German Research Foundation is overseen by this department. A special reading room for music, maps and images is provided for the library users.\n\nThe oriental collections of the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek comprise 260,000 volumes in Arabic, Armenian, Georgian, Hebrew, Yiddish, Mongolian, Persian, Tibetan and Indian languages. The East-Asian collections comprise more than 310,000 volumes in the Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Thai and Vietnamese languages. Users can avail themselves of the open-access collections in the east reading room occupied together with the department of Eastern Europe.\n\nThe department of Eastern Europe is the largest special department of the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek, holding around one million books about and from Eastern Europe, from early modern times up to the 21st century. In addition to the eastern European area, it also addresses eastern central and south-eastern Europe as well as the Asian part of Russia. The open-access collection of the department is accommodated in the library's east reading room.\n\nThe departments in charge of tasks predominantly allocated to a regional level are the Bayerische Bibliotheksschule (Bavarian School of Library and Information Science), the Landesfachstelle für das öffentliche Bibliothekswesen (Consulting Centre for Public Libraries) as well as the head office of the Bibliotheksverbund Bayern (Bavarian Library Network).\n\nThe Bavarian regional state-funded libraries form part of Bavaria's academic library system. They are subordinated to the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek in the organisation structure. Among these libraries are the state libraries of Amberg, Ansbach, Neuburg an der Donau, Passau and Regensburg, the Studienbibliothek Dillingen, the Landesbibliothek Coburg, the Bamberg State Library () as well as the Hofbibliothek Aschaffenburg.\n\nThe library was founded in 1558 as the court library of Duke Albrecht V, and was originally located in the vaulted chamber of the Alter Hof (old court) of the Munich residence. Initially, two book collections were acquired: on the one hand the personal papers of the Austrian jurist, orientalist and imperial chancellor Johann Albrecht Widmannstetter, consisting of oriental manuscripts and prints, editions of classic authors and works from the areas of theology, philosophy und jurisprudence, and on the other hand the collection of the Augsburg patrician Johann Jakob Fugger, which was acquired in 1571. Fugger had commissioned agents to collect volumes of manuscripts and printed works in Italy, Spain and the Netherlands. In the end the works collected in this way amounted to more than 10,000 volumes. At the same time, he had had manuscripts copied in Venice.\n\nApart from this, in 1552 Fugger had purchased the collection of manuscripts and incunabula of the physician and humanist Hartmann Schedel, representing one of the richest humanistic private libraries north of the Alps. The Fugger collection was first administrated and organised by the physician Samuel Quichelberg from Antwerp. He had adopted the shelving system of the Augsburg court library. Later the collection was administered by the librarian Wolfgang Prommer, who had catalogued the collection both alphabetically and according to keywords. Aegidius Oertel from Nuremberg became the first librarian in 1561. The main users of the library were the Jesuits, who had been invited to Munich in 1559.\n\nWilliam V continued the collection, making further purchases:\nIn 1600 the collection comprised 17,000 volumes.\n\nThe secularization of Bavaria and the transfer of the court library of the Electorate of the Palatinate around the year 1803 added approximately 550,000 volumes and 18,600 manuscripts to the library's holdings.\n\nIn 1827 Friedrich von Gärtner was commissioned to plan a representative building for the court- and state library. The original plan was to erect the building at Ludwigstrasse 1. In 1828 the plot opposite the Glyptothek on Königsplatz was chosen as location, but later in the same year the planners switched back again to Ludwigstrasse. The blueprints were completed in 1831. For lack of funds the laying of the foundation stone had to be postponed to 8 July 1832. The construction work on the building planned by Gärtner was concluded in 1843.\n\nIn 1919 the library received the name that it still bears today: Bayerische Staatsbibliothek.\n\nDuring the Second World War more than 500,000 volumes were lost, although the collections were partly evacuated from the building. Some of the books were for example stored in the palace chapel of Schloss Haimhausen. Of the building itself 85% were destroyed. The reconstruction of the library building and the reintegration of evacuated holdings started in 1946.\n\n1953-1966 the professors Hans Döllgast und Sep Ruf had to plan and realize the reconstruction of the eastern wing, a new area behind historic walls, and the extension building of the Bavarian State Library, a glass- steel frame construction for the bibliotheca. They made an available surface of 17.000 m² and a cubature of 84.000 m³. 1967 a jury with Hans Scharoun gave the price of the BDA Bayern to the extension building. The inauguration of the restored south wing of the building in 1970 marked the conclusion of the reconstruction work on the building.\n\nThe Speicherbibliothek Garching (book repository) was inaugurated in 1988.\n\nThe Bayerische Staatsbibliothek has also initiated large-scale internet projects. In 1997 the Munich Digitization Center took up work and the BSB started developing its web portals, including its own web site. The card catalogue 1841-1952 and the catalogue of incunabula 1450-1500 were converted, thus making the complete holdings of printed materials of the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek available online. The service \"Digitisation on Demand\", offered by a network of several European libraries, makes millions of books published between 1500 and 1900 available in digital form.\n\nOn 7 March 2007 Director General Rolf Griebel announced that Google Book Search will take over the digitisation of the copyright-free holdings of the Bayerische Staatsbibliothek. In 2008, the year of its 450th anniversary, the Deutscher Bibliotheksverband (German Library Association) awarded the title of Bibliothek des Jahres (Library of the year) to the BSB.\n\nIn 2012 an Italian scholar discovered among Johann Jakob Fugger's manuscripts in the library an 11th-century Greek codex containing 29 ancient homilies, previously unpublished, by the theologian Origen of Alexandria.\n\nSince 2003 the Bavarian State Library has gone to great efforts to restitute illegally-acquired library material. The most recent example is the restitution of the so-called Plock Pontifical to Poland in April 2015. It had been stolen by the Nazis from the Plock Bishopric in 1940 and was taken to the Koenigsberg University. The Bavarian State Library bought the manuscript in 1973 for 6,200 DM at an auction in Munich. In the past years, the library has searched through those segments of its collections that are in question for illegitimate purchases. All in all, over 60,000 books have been meticulously checked so far. The library has identified around 500 books whose acquisition is to be regarded as unlawful. Subsequently, to these findings, several restitutions have taken place, amongst others the Bavarian State Library returned 78 volumes originating from Thomas Mann’s research library to the Thomas Mann Archive in Zürich in 2007. Further restitutions are in preparation, for example 252 books from the former publishing house Geca Kon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54464966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54464966", "title": "Bedding ceremony", "text": "Bedding ceremony\n\nThe bedding ceremony refers to the wedding custom of putting the newlywed couple together in the marital bed before numerous witnesses, thereby completing the marriage. In most traditions the newlyweds were put in bed by their family, friends, and neighbors.\n\nThe purpose of the ritual was to establish the consummation of the marriage, either by actually witnessing the couple's first sexual intercourse or symbolically, by leaving before consummation. It symbolized the community's involvement in the marriage. The legally binding nature of the ceremony varied greatly from place to place and through time.\n\nBedding rituals have been practiced in various cultures, the ceremony differing from place to place. The people putting the newlyweds in bed have usually included their family, friends and wider community. The ritual is often associated with music, bawdy songs and jokes. It symbolised the community's involvement in the marriage and especially in the couple's sexual intimacy, but also their marital fidelity. The consummation itself, i.e. the couple's first sexual intercourse, was not witnessed in most of Western Europe.\n\nIn England, the ceremony usually began with a priest blessing the bed, after which the newlyweds prepared themselves for bed and drank sweet and spicy wine. The groomsmen and the bridesmaids then sat on the sides of the bed and threw the couple's stockings at them; a hit was believed to indicate that the thrower would soon marry. Finally the curtains were drawn around the bed and the couple were left alone. Some newlyweds refused to take part in the bedding ceremony. King Charles I of England () notably barred the door of his bedroom; however, despite his rejection, the custom remained prevalent for another century among all social classes, including the royal family.\n\nIn the 16th century, in what is now Germany, the bedding ceremony was performed to the sound of pipes, drums and \"obscene noises\", after which the couple were left alone and the guests continued celebrating loudly enough for the newlyweds not to be heard. In many places, the newlyweds were dressed for bed separately by their family or community and then led to the bedroom. In others, the couple were expected to rejoin the party afterwards. During the Reformation era, the bedding ceremony was associated with rituals that assigned socioeconomic rights and duties to the bride as housewife.\n\nIn Scandinavia, it was the most distinguished wedding guest who led the bride to bed in a festive procession. After putting them in bed, the guests offered dishes to the couple and quickly ate with them before leaving them alone. Due to the ritual's importance, specially decorated wedding beds were sometimes borrowed from friends, family or neighbours. The bedding eventually became merely symbolic, with the bride's parents covering the newlyweds with a blanket and then uncovering them.\n\nThe original purpose of the bedding ceremony was to establish the consummation of the marriage, without which the union could be annulled. The legally binding nature of the ritual was unclear to many, particularly to lower classes. One marriage in Britain was annulled on the pretext that the bride had run away within 15 minutes of the ritual, and in another case, a clandestine marriage was made public when the pregnant wife shared her husband's deathbed. Public bedding in 18th-century Britain was widely believed to give additional legitimacy to the marriage. In Scotland, although marriage was formed by simple consent and required no formalities or consummation, the bedding rituals were widespread but unstructured; a couple simply wanted someone to see them in bed together. A couple could also be pressured into marriage in this way: a person stumbling upon an unmarried couple in bed could pronounce them man and wife on the spot.\n\nIn medieval Scandinavia, the bedding ceremony was of great legal importance. Laws in many Swedish provinces regarded public bedding as essential to the completion of a marriage, but the legal importance later diminished due to new royal laws. In Iceland, a marriage was only valid if it included the bedding ritual witnessed by at least six men.\n\nIn the case of royal marriages, the ceremony took on added significance.\n\nThe bedding ritual has featured in popular culture for centuries. It has been hinted at in \"The Penny Wedding\", an 1818 painting by David Wilkie, and possibly also in the homonymous 1819 painting by Alexander Carse. Numerous songs also make references to the ceremony.\n\nIn the television series \"Game of Thrones\", a bedding ceremony features in several episodes. It is conceived as a \"Westerosi tradition following the wedding feast\", wherein the attendees forcibly undress and carry the newlyweds to their bed. The intention is to \"celebrate a marriage's consummation\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6202715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6202715", "title": "Brothers in Law (novel)", "text": "Brothers in Law (novel)\n\nBrothers in Law is a 1955 comic novel by British author Henry Cecil, himself a County Court judge, about Roger Thursby — a young barrister — experiencing his first year in chambers.\n\nAt the age of 21, Roger Thursby has just completed his barrister's examinations and has been Called to the Bar. He commences his pupillage in the chambers of Mr Kendall Grimes, but finds he learns more from Henry, his colleague, and fellow pupils Peter and Charles, to say nothing of Alec, the chambers clerk. Although supposed to 'shadow' Grimes, he finds himself on his feet before a judge within a few days, all at sea on a knotty legal point.\n\nRoger lives with his slightly vague widowed Mother, and also balances the affections of two girlfriends, Sally and Joy. Joy obtains his first brief for him from her uncle, a solicitor; an undefended divorce case, which Roger manages to lose, to the lady's fury.\n\nRoger slowly gains more experience and confidence. He is given a \"dock brief\"; a case of fraud. Despite the odd behaviour of his client, Roger gets him off.\n\nAs his period as a pupil comes to its end, Henry leaves to take a position in another set of Chambers, and Roger considers joining him.\n\nIn 1957 the book was made into a film starring Ian Carmichael and Terry-Thomas directed by Roy Boulting. A curiosity about this film is that Eric Barker won a BAFTA as 'Most Promising Newcomer' for his role as a barrister's clerk, even though he had appeared in a number of other films, and had enjoyed an illustrious radio career.\n\nIn 1962, Frank Muir and Denis Norden adapted the book as a television series featuring an early performance by Richard Briers in the leading role, though Richard Waring wrote five of the thirteen episodes. The series also spawned a spin-off \"Mr Justice Duncannon\", also written by Cecil.\n\nThere were also two radio adaptations, one in 1955 starring Donald Sinden, and in 1970 in which Briers reprised the role. The latter radio series by the BBC ran for thirty nine episodes in three series. They were adaptations by Richard Waring of the TV series. The cast included John Glyn-Jones (Grimes, Roger's pupil master) with Julia Lockwood (Sally) and Bridget Armstrong (Joy) as the women in Roger's life.\n\n"}
{"id": "18573201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18573201", "title": "Charter of the Arab League", "text": "Charter of the Arab League\n\nThe Charter of the Arab League (also known as the Pact of the League of Arab States) is the founding treaty of the Arab League. Concluded in 1945, the agreement endorses the principle of an Arab homeland while respecting the sovereignty of the individual member states. The internal regulations of the Council of the Arab League and the committees were agreed to in October 1951. Those of the Secretary-General were agreed to in May 1953.\n\nSince then, governance of the Arab League has been based on the duality of supra-national institutions and the sovereignty of its member states. Preservation of individual statehood derived its strengths from the natural preference of ruling elites to maintain their power and independence in decision making. Moreover, the fear of the richer that the poorer may share their wealth in the name of Arab nationalism, the feuds among Arab rulers, and the influence of external powers that might oppose Arab unity can be seen as obstacles towards a deeper integration of the league.\n\nThe Charter was concluded on 22 March 1945 by the governments of Syria, Transjordan, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon, Egypt, and North Yemen. A state joins the Arab League by ratifying the Pact.\n\nAccording to the Charter, \"the League of Arab States shall be composed of the: independent Arab States that have signed this Pact.\"\n\nThe member states of the Arab League represent all forms of government, including monarchies, both absolute and constitutional, as well as republics.\n\nOfficially, Iraqi Kurdistan is the only autonomous entity in the Arab League, but several countries view Palestine as an autonomous entity within Israel. The Palestinian Authority exercises certain sovereign powers within its borders, but is not a fully independent government. The Palestinian Authority administrated territories are internationally recognized as occupied by Israel. The Arab League on the other hand recognizes the State of Palestine as a fully independent state, with Jerusalem as its capital and with embassies in all of the other League member states, with the exception of Somalia.\n\n"}
{"id": "19111301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19111301", "title": "Chicago Board of Trade v. United States", "text": "Chicago Board of Trade v. United States\n\nChicago Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U.S. 231 (1918), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States applied the \"rule of reason\" to the internal trading rules of a commodity market. Section 1 of the Sherman Act flatly states: \"Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations, is declared to be illegal.\" However, in evaluating the U.S. government's allegations that the Chicago Board of Trade's rules on grain prices violated the Act, the Supreme Court rejected a strict interpretation of its language: \"The true test of legality is whether the restraint imposed is such as merely regulates and perhaps thereby promotes competition or whether it is such as may suppress or even destroy competition.\"\n\nDefendant Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) is a commodity market, dealing in spot sales (sales of grain stored in Chicago and ready for delivery), future sales (grain to be purchased for delivery at a later time), and “to arrive” orders (grain which is en route to Chicago). CBOT introduced a new “call rule” which regulated board members buying or selling sales of “to arrive” orders—at the close of the call session (which at that point was 2:00 p.m Central Time), the price of grain is set and dealers can’t sell grain at any other price. The United States Department of Justice accused CBOT of price-fixing, and in 1913, filed suit against the Board in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.\n\nAt trial, CBOT asserted that the rule did not have any unlawful purpose, but rather was set up to curb certain pre-existing problems and abuses. CBOT claimed that a group of agents were lowering discounts on commissions to those people buying grain after hours. These agents would wait until after hours, and then buyers would get cheaper prices. CBOT wanted to curb the power of these monopsony/oligopsony type of buyers by making prices the same for everyone after hours. Also, the rule shortened the traders’ work hours, for the convenience of its members.\n\nUltimately, however, the District Court did not issue an opinion. The Justice Department and CBOT entered into a consent decree under which enjoined them from acting upon the same or from adopting or acting upon any similar rule.\n\nJustice Brandeis, writing for a unanimous court, first observed that every trade association and board of trade imposes some restraint upon the conduct of its members. He explained the essence of the Rule of Reason: \"The true test of legality is whether the restraint imposed is such as merely regulates and perhaps thereby promotes competition or whether it is such as may suppress or even destroy competition.\" Whether or not a rule restrains trade in violation of the Sherman Act thus turns on the facts and circumstances of each particular case.\n\nHe then examined the nature, scope, effect, and history of the rule. He held that the call rule was ultimately procompetitive in purpose and effect. The scope of the rule was such that it only operated during certain times of day, and affects only small percentage of the grain market. The rule helped to create public market for grain, and made pricing more transparent. It decreased the market power of dominant sellers, and made sure that prices were set by open competitive bidding. The decree of the District Court was reversed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33183733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33183733", "title": "Chinese property law", "text": "Chinese property law\n\nChinese property law has existed in various forms for centuries. After the Chinese Communist Revolution in 1949, most land is owned by collectivities or by the state; the Property Law of the People's Republic of China passed in 2007 codified property rights.\n\nUse of property are usually divided into topsoil (田皮) and subsoil (田骨) rights. Landlords paid taxes to the government in return for land-owning rights (known as subsoil rights), but did not have the right to actively use the land. The landlords in turn collected rent from peasants who used the land for agricultural purposes (topsoil rights). There are still on-going debates as to whether Imperial China had actual private property rights. Some argue that the imperial state had limited control over landed property whereas others have a despotic view of imperial China as an all-controlling state. However, the bottom line was that the entire imperial era was seen as one of stagnation, during which \"the system .. remain[ed] basically the same for the whole of imperial history\".\nIn fact, the property rights structure during imperial times was time and space dependent, and was affected by wars, rebellions and natural disaster. During such times, there were frequent shifts in ownership as abandoned land was reclaimed after former owners had fled or died. During the Qing Dynasty (1644-1911) some titling of land ownership did take place, albeit not systematically or at a national level, and historical titles have been handed down to the present. Newly accrued land along rivers, creeks and other waters – so-called riparian rights – was clearly designated as state property, and the Qing government repeatedly emphasized this in imperial edicts.\n\nDuring the rule of the Nationalist government (1912–1949), land tenure consisted on the one hand of communal and customary rights vested in landlords and nobles, religious institutions, and village communities, and on the other of statutory land rights grafted on to a German and Japanese civil law tradition. Under Nationalist rule, most forest was privately owned. Although the Communist government gradually worked towards the abolition of private ownership after they had gained power, private forest holdings continued to exist until the collectivization of the countryside.\n\nIn the areas controlled by Communist forces traditional land tenure was broken up through Land Reform. In the 1930s Land Reform in the old revolutionary base areas, such as the Jiangxi Soviet and the Shaan-Gan-Ning Border Region, was carried out with the least possible social disruption. Middle and rich peasants were allowed to keep part of their land holdings, whereas expropriated landlords were allocated sufficient land to make a living. Yet, directly after the Second World War, Land Reform took a more radical turn. It was not until a speech by Mao in 1948 that a moderate stance was taken once more.\n\nThere were several times of changes in ownership and control over land in China. Regarding rural land, these changes began with the establishment of the Higher Agricultural Production Cooperatives in 1956. Thereafter rural private land ownership was effectively abolished through Land Reform, which left land in the hands of the state or the collective.\n\nChina’s Land Reform (1950-1952) was one of the largest examples of land expropriation in world history. In the process, between 200–240 million acres of arable land were redistributed to approximately 75 million peasant families.\n\nUntil decollectivization in the mid-1980s, there were only two factors making for change in land policies: the level of collective ownership and the extent of freedom in private land use. The Great Leap Forward (1958–1962) forced the central leadership to decentralize land ownership from the commune to the production team. This was laid down in Party regulations promulgated in 1962 (the Sixty Articles)Freedom in the private use (not ownership) of land shifted various times. Before 1958, when rural China was organized into huge administrative units—the people’s communes—farmers were allocated small plots of collective land for their own use (ziliudi). Depending on the region, farming was more or less privatized, with managerial responsibilities vested in the household. Farm households negotiated contracts under which they had to deliver grain quota to the state at low fixed prices. The surplus grain above the quota could be sold freely at private markets. These privileges were rescinded twice (and subsequently reinstalled) during the Great Leap Forward and the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution (1966–76).\nIn the case of urban land, after the nationalization of industries and companies in the early 1950s, it was deemed state-owned, although not legally stipulated for a long period of time. Land owned by the state was seen as \"absolute\" and therefore, did not warrant a title; a principle adhered to – and enshrined in regulation – until today. However, the notion that urban land is tantamount to state ownership and, therefore, excludes private ownership had been formally disputed by the State Land Administration up to the early 1980s.\n\nIn the era of Deng Xiaoping, a fundamental legal source of the regime of property and property rights in the PRC lay in the Constitution of PRC enacted in 1982. The 1982 constitution provided for the \"socialist public ownership\" of the means of production, which takes two forms- state ownership and collective ownership. In 2004, the fourth amendment to the constitution was made. Article 13 of the constitution provided that: \"The lawful private property of citizens shall be inviolable. The country shall protect in accordance with law citizens' private property rights and inheritance rights. The country may, as necessitated by public interest, expropriate or requisition citizens' private property and pay compensation therefor.\" It can thus be seen that China's property laws have been undergoing developments. The most recent development would be the enactment of the Property Law in March 2007 (after 14 years of debates), which is noted as one of the most important core components of the evolving civil law in the PRC.\n\nAn investor who wants to invest or develop land or property in China must bear in mind China's property laws, most notably the property law introduced in 2007, which for the first time protects the interest of private investors to the same extent as that of national interests.\n\nReal property rights in China can generally be grouped into three types. The first type is ownership rights. The second type is usufructuary rights, and the third is security rights.\n\nOwnership rights are protected under Article 39 of The Property Law of the People’s Republic of China, which gives the owner the right to possess, utilize, dispose of and obtain profits from the real property. However, this right has to comply with laws and social morality. It can harm neither public interests nor the legitimate rights and interests of others.\n\nIn general, rural collectives own agricultural land and the state owns urban land. However, Article 70 of The Property Law allows for ownership of exclusive parts within an apartment building, which endorses the individual ownership of apartments.\n\nThe owner of a usufructuary right has the right to possess, utilize and obtain profits from the real properties owned by others. The obligee may not intervene in the exercise of rights by the owner of the usufructuary right.\n\nThere are several types of usufructuary rights. These include the right to land contractual management, the right to use of construction land, the right to use of residential housing land and easement.\nThe right to land contractual management allows a contractor of the right to possess, utilize and obtain profits from agricultural land. This right is transferable, but the land use rights based on agricultural household contracts cannot be changed arbitrarily for non-agricultural purposes.\n\nThe right to use of construction land is only with regard to State-owned land, and the owner of the right is able to build buildings and their accessory facilities. This is in addition to being able to possess, utilize and obtain profits from the land. This right may be established by means of assignment or transfer, but transfer is limited. The ownership of the buildings will change together with the land. As a protection of the right, the term of the right shall be automatically renewed upon expiration If it has to be taken back, compensation shall be given.\n\nThe owner of the right to use of residential housing land can possess and utilize such land as collectively owned, and can build residential houses and their accessory facilities. The Law of Land Administration and other regulations will apply to the attainment, exercise and assignment of the right to the use of residential land.\n\nThe owner of easement has the right to use the real property of others to benefit his own real property. Easement will be governed by the terms of a contract.\n\nForms of security rights include mortgages, pledges and liens.\nHolders of security rights have priority if a debtor defaults on his obligation. This is to ensure obligations are met. Security rights do not exist independently, but require a valid principal claim, and lapse when the debt lapses.\n\nForeign investors are not allowed to buy land in China. The land in China belongs to the state and the collectives.\n\nA land user obtains only the land use right, not the land or any resources in or below the land.\nA land grant contract shall be entered into between the land user and the land administration department of the people’s government at municipal or county level.\n\nThe land grant contract must be signed. Land use rights can be obtained from the land administration department by agreement, tender or auction.\nRegardless of the method by which the land use rights is granted, a contract for grant of land use right, or more commonly known as a land grant contract, must be entered into by the land user and the local land administration authority or municipal governments at or above the county level as grantor.\n\nArticle 12 of the Provisional Regulations on Grant and Assignment of Urban State-owned Land Use Right states the different duration of rights provided for different purposes.\n\nIn China, there is no unified official procedure for the rules on the registration of land-use rights and the ownership of property.\nAll interests in land must be recorded in the official government register. This register is proof of ownership. However, different interests might be registered under different registries.\nThe Property Law only offers a general guideline as to recordation. Peter Ho has described the recordation of Chinese property rights per institution as it exists until 2014. An overview is in the table below.\n\nArticle 6 provides for a general registration requirement in the cases of creation, modification, transfer, and elimination of rights to immovables.\n\nArticle 10(2)(l) requires a unified registration system for all real property rights, but this unified system is currently only adopted in tier one cities like Beijing and Shanghai. The unification of interests in a single registry is still not prevalent in the smaller cities and will take more time before its implementation.\n\nFurthermore, Article 10(1) allows for respective local rules of registration.\n\nChina has a system of public notaries which are a subordinate agency of the Ministry of Justice of the People's Republic of China. They are responsible for certification of property titles.\n\nThe description below applies to the post-reform legal arrangements and should not be confused with nationalistation of property before 1978.\n\nThe Chinese authorities are empowered under the Constitution and various statutes\nto expropriate land use rights contracted to individuals as well as ownership rights from collectives.. Since all land is owned either collectively or by the state,\nexpropriation of rural land only requires the withdrawal of land use rights for the reason of \"public interest.\"\n\nThe definition of public interest is intentionally vague, and a general list of such interests has been expounded in an attempt to define what it means.\n\nThese include interests such as defence, transportation infrastructure, education and health.\nCurrently, the types of compensation are:\n\nHowever, the first two are paid to the collective landowners instead of the farmers. Compensation for non-land rural assets is also highly discretionary.\n\nOnce the farmers and collective land owners are notified, the expropriation can commence. Disputes regarding the compensation and resettlement shall not affect the implementation of the expropriation.\n\nThe Land Administrative Law provides five situations under which land use rights may be withdrawn:\nThe rights holder is entitled to \"appropriate compensation\" in the first two situations. As the state owns the land, compensation is not made for the loss of the rights holder's land use rights, \nbut for the private property which he had lost. It is made either in cash (based on market prices) and accounts for any moving expenses or resettlement subsidies, or in kind (in the form of a replacement structure).\n\nUnder the current legal framework, land developers no longer have the legal power to expropriate, and are no longer involved in the demolition and relocation procedures. The local government or non-profit organisations are now in charge of land expropriation and compensation.\n\nBy minimising the business interests in the expropriation procedure, incidents of forced expropriation might be reduced.\n\nIf a rights holder wants to protect his property, he can evoke certain procedural safeguards, which include: \n\nIn the event that an agreement cannot be reached between homeowners and the government, the expropriation can only be carried out judicial review.\n\nNew regulations effective from January 21, 2011 have provided hope for the future with regards to several controversies surrounding urban property expropriation.\n\nIn January 2011,a 54-year-old man was beaten to death for refusing to leave his house that was expropriated for demolition.\nFollowing this instance, the employment of violence or coercion, or illegal methods like cutting off the water and power supply, to force homeowners to leave is officially disallowed.\n\nAlthough these new regulations relate to urban land, the legal principles established have significant implications for the rule of law in China. The outlook for China’s Land Administrative law is hopeful as future revisions regarding rural land are expected to occur in the near future.\n\nWhile having implemented the household production responsibility system, China retains collectively-owned farmland in the rural areas. This creates a large potential for abuse as the critical decisions regarding the land and its use are made by a small number of village leaders. \nPeter Ho has demonstrated that one of the unresolved issues is the level of collective ownership. Since decollectivization, collective ownership – previously represented by the lowest collective level (former production team) – has been split up in three: the township, administrative village and natural village. Chinese law does not stipulate whether the former production team is still the legal owner.\n\nWhile the Property Law enacted in 2007 provides some legal leverage to prevent the abuse of power by village councils, it remains to be seen if legal remedies are accessible or are even used by the villagers. Prevailing local culture, the fear of authority and the possibility of violent repercussions hinder a victim's inclination to seek legal recourse. Also, such rules may be disregarded by the committees or councils due to lack of enforcement.\n\nWhile critics may be skeptical of whether the new enactments clarifying the issue of collective ownership will \nmake a difference, such changes are still welcomed as signs of increasing protection for the rural villagers.\n\nAnother issue is the problem of rampant corruption arising from rural land transactions, involving both governmental and non-governmental parties. This leads to over-pricing and also improper use of land that goes unchecked.\n\nWith the passing of the Property Law, a number of local legislators fear \nthat \"while the new property law would undoubtedly increase protection for home \nowners and prevent land seizures, it would also erode China’s socialist \nprinciples.\" The insistence on socialist values among some of the Chinese ruling elite raises questions on whether China – an emerging world superpower – intends to open its doors fully to the Western world and ideas of free-market liberalism, or whether it will continue to differentiate itself in such matters.\n\nThe Chinese government, while liberalizing its property laws, has still \npreserved its right to reclaim any property from an individual, as long as there \nis a public policy consideration. In 2004, it amended its 1982 Constitution to \ninclude that the Government has to pay the person compensation for expropriation \n(\"征收\") or requisition (\"征用\"). However, the article neither provides, \neither in the constitution or in any subsidiary legislation, for the quantum of \nthe payment, nor does it stipulate that the payment must be proportional to the \nsize of the land. \nThis has led to abuse by government bodies, especially in rural areas. Expropriation of land from farmers is the most frequent cause of complaint among farmers.\nHowever, in 2011, the Chinese Government released regulations \nclarifying this, which promise to provide more transparency and a fairer \ncompensation system.\n\nWestern critics continue to call for greater transparency , \nbut such is a difficult state of affairs to arrive at, given the largely \nentrenched system of state bureaucracy in China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5619755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5619755", "title": "Consolation payment", "text": "Consolation payment\n\nConsolation payments is payment given to relatives of civilians who have died accidentally.\n\nUS Representative John Murtha has said that the United States has paid $5 million in consolation payments to the Iraqis in 2004 and $20 million in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2350107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2350107", "title": "Copyright law of France", "text": "Copyright law of France\n\nThe \"droit d'auteur\" (or French copyright law) developed in the 18th century at the same time as copyright developed in the United Kingdom. Based on the \"right of the author\" (\"droit d'auteur\") instead of on \"copyright\", its philosophy and terminology are different from those used in copyright law in common law jurisdictions. It has been very influential in the development of copyright laws in other civil law jurisdictions, and in the development of international copyright law such as the Berne Convention.\n\nFrench copyright law is defined in the \"Code de la propriété intellectuelle\", which implements European copyright law (directives). Unless otherwise stated, references to individual articles are to the \"Code de la propriété intellectuelle\". Two distinct sets of rights are defined:.\n\nThe controversial DADVSI act was due to reform French copyright law in spring 2006. This law, voted by the French Parliament on June 30, 2006, implements the 2001 EU Copyright Directive; however, there existed considerable differences of opinion as to how to implement the directive, in many respects.\n\nOn 8 December 2005 the Tribunal de grande instance de Paris concluded that file sharing through peer-to-peer was not a criminal offense . The judgment was based on the right to \"private copy\" described in the which includes the use of digital media .\n\nOn 7 March 2006, however, the National Assembly passed the DADVSI Act which implemented—with some modifications—the 2001 European Union Copyright directive. The DADVSI act makes peer-to-peer sharing of copyrighted works an offense. It does, however, allow for sharing of private copies of tape recording and other media.\n\nThe concept of \"right of the author\", which differs from Anglo-American copyright, finds its roots in the practice of printing patents and royal privileges, which first appeared in the 16th century and became common in the 17th century. The privilege concerned the publication rights to authors' works, rather than authors' rights \"per se\". The first privilege granted in France was given by Henri II in 1551 to Guillaume Morlay, his lute player. Through this system of royal privileges, the King granted monopolies to specific editors, and implemented a system of censorship. Privileges were then very short (3 to 10 years), after which the work entered the public domain. The Moulins ordinance of 1566, the first piece of legislation to impose to librarians and editors the request of a printing patent, did not make any mention of authors.\n\nDespite this regime which privileged editors over authors, some of the latter succeeded in obtaining privileges for their works. During the Muret Affair, in 1568, the lawyer Marion pleaded for a complete and unrestricted right of property of the author on his work, and intellectual property thus entered the French jurisprudence.\n\nAt the same time, the practice of remunerating authors by some percentage became common during the 17th century. Playwrights, including Corneille, started to defend their rights because at that time, once a play was published, any troupe could play it without paying anything to its creator. The King thus arbitrated between the rival interests of editors and creators, giving his preference to the former.\n\nIn 1761, a court decision granted to Jean de La Fontaine's granddaughters the right of ownership of La Fontaine's work, legitimized by the right of inheritance. In 1777, two other court decisions limited the publisher's right, which was restricted to the life-time of the author.\n\nFollowing the abolition of privileges on the night of 4 August 1789, during the French Revolution, the National Convention enacted new legislation on the matter. A draft law was proposed by the Abbé Sieyès, which, although allegedly inspired by Condorcet's pamphlet titled \"Fragments sur la liberté de la presse\" (Fragments on liberty of the press, 1776), aimed at struggling against the spread of licentious ideas by imposing responsibility for their diffusion on authors, publishers and librarians. Sieyès and Condorcet also advanced the idea of \"limited privilege,\" against perpetual privileges, thus preparing the inclusion in the public domain of the works of Racine, Molière, Rousseau, Voltaire, etc. According to Anne Latournerie, \"The first revolutionary attempt to provide to authors a legal recognition of their rights on their texts was therefore not the search of a freedom for authors, but rather the exigency of a responsibility.\"\n\nFinally, after a controversy concerning dramatic authors, and their rebellion, led by Beaumarchais, these preliminaries resulted in the July 19, 1793 \"Chénier Act\". The July 14, 1866 Act extends the rights until fifty years after the death of the author.\n\nDebates continued throughout the 19th century – notably, between Lamartine and Proudhon – and the inter-war period. As early as August 1936 during the Popular Front, the Minister of National Education and of the Beaux-Arts Jean Zay proposed a draft law based on a new philosophy of the author as an \"intellectual worker\" (\"travailleur intellectuel\") rather than as an \"owner\" (\"propriétaire\"). Jean Zay placed himself in a moral continuum with Alfred de Vigny, Augustin-Charles Renouard and Proudhon, defending the \"spiritual interest of the collectivity\". Article 21 of his draft divided the 50 years post-mortem protection period into two different phases, one of 10 years and the other of 40 years which established a sort of legal licence suppressing the right of exclusivity granted to a specific editor. Zay's draft project was particularly opposed by the editor Bernard Grasset, who defended the right of the editor as a \"creator of value\", while many writers, including Jules Romains and the president of the \"Société des Gens de Lettres\", Jean Vignaud, supported Zay's draft. The draft did not succeed, however, in being voted in before the end of the legislature in 1939.\n\nNew discussions were undertaken during the Vichy regime, initiated by a corporatist body, presided over by three jurists, François Hepp, René Dommange, and Paul Lerebours-Pigeonnières. Both Hepp and Dommange had been at the forefront of the battle against Jean Zay's draft law during the Popular Front.\n\nDuring the Fourth Republic, 13 years of debate culminated in the modernization of the law with the March 11, 1957 Act, which was in the mold of the Vichy proposals – a continuity proudly highlighted by François Hepp. A Commission had been created in August 1944, presided over by the jurist Jean Escarra, who had co-signed in 1937 an essay with François Hepp and Jean Reault, published by Grasset, which harshly criticized Jean Zay's draft project.\n\nIn 1997, a court decision outlawed the publication on the Internet of Raymond Queneau's \"Hundred Thousand Billion Poems\", an interactive poem or sort of machine to produce poems. The court decided that the son of Queneau and the Gallimard editions possessed an exclusive and moral right on this poem, thus outlawing any publication of it on the Internet and possibility for the reader to play Queneau's interactive game of poem construction.\n\nIn June 2006, the controversial DADVSI Act, which implemented (including modifications to), the 2001 EU Copyright directive was passed by the National Parliament.\n\nThe criterion for protection of a work under French copyright law is that it be an \"œuvre de l'esprit\", a work of the mind (Art. L112-1). Hence there must be a human intellectual contribution to the work. A list of types of work which are protected is given in Art. L112-2: this list (taken from the Berne Convention) is not limitative.\n\nThe copyright protection of computer programs was, and to some extent still is, the subject of much debate in France. Patent protection was first excluded by \"Loi n°68-1 du 2 janvier 1968 sur les brevets d'invention\" and defined in copyright by \"Loi n°85-660 du 3 juillet 1985 relative aux droits d'auteur et aux droits des artistes-interprètes, des producteurs de phonogrammes et de vidéogrammes et des entreprises de communication audiovisuelle\". The legal position was resolved by the transposition of May 14, 1991 EU Directive into French law: computer programs and any associated preparatory works qualify for copyright protection in France as in other European Union jurisdictions. Databases are protected by a related \"sui generis\" right.\n\nThe term \"author\" is used to designate the original creator(s) of any type of protected work, \"e.g.\", the artist, photographer, director, architect, etc. Where the author cannot be identified, \"e.g.\", for anonymous works and collective works, the copyright is exercised by the original publisher.\n\nA collective work is a work created at the initiative of a natural or legal person who edits it, publishes it and discloses it under his direction and name and in which the personal contributions of the various authors who participated in its production are merged in the overall work for which they were conceived, without it being possible to attribute to each author a separate right in the work as created. A collective work is the property, unless proved otherwise, of the natural or legal person under whose name it has been disclosed. The author's rights, vest in such person.\" The term of the exclusive right is 70 years from January 1 of the calendar year following that in which the work was published.\"\n\nThe proprietary rights of the author allow him or her to exploit the work for financial gain. The author has the right to authorize the reproduction of the work (\"droit de reproduction\") and to allow its \"public\" performance (\"droit de représentation\"); he or she may also prevent the reproduction or public performance.\n\nThe author may transfer his or her proprietary rights to a third party.\n\nThe general rule is that the proprietary rights of the author last for seventy (70) years after his or her death (Art. L123-1), or for one hundred (100) years after the author's death if the author is declared to have died on active service (\"mort pour la France\") (Art. L123-10). The author is deemed to have died on 31 December of the year of death.\n\nBefore February 2007, the periods of World War I and World War II were not taken into account for the determination of the expiry date of proprietary rights, with peculiar ways of counting these (Arts. L123-8 & L123-9 -> see the French Wikipedia article ). These exceptions applied to works published before and during the wars, and must be added whatever the date of the author's death. These extensions were removed (for non-musical works) by the Court of Cassation in February 2007. They still have to be added to the 70 years delay for musical works, because of a 1985 law.\n\nFor collaborative works, the date of death of the last collaborator serves as the reference point for the 70 year \"post mortem auctoris\" period (Art. L123-2). Audiovisual works are treated similarly, although the list of collaborators is defined by the law: scriptwriter, lyricist, composer, director.\n\nProprietary rights in pseudonymous, anonymous or collective works last for seventy (70) years after the date of publication (Art. L123-3).\n\nFor phonographic works, the proprietary rights last for 50 years after the date of recording.\n\nIn addition, posthumous works are copyrighted 25 years from the year of publication.\n\nAs in other countries, there are a number of societies which collectively manage the licensing of different types of work and the collection of royalties on behalf of copyright holders. These societies typically operate as associations, and are regulated by the \"Code de la propriété intellectuelle\" (Arts. L321-1 to L321-13) and the Ministry of Culture. The most important are:\n\n\nFrench copyright law treats a protected work as an extension of the personality of the author which is protected by a certain number of moral rights. In general, the author has the right to \"the respect of his name, of his status as author, and of his work\" (Art. L121-1). The following rights are usually recognised:\n\n\nThe moral rights of the author may conflict with the property rights of the owner of the work, for example an architect who tries to prevent modifications to a building he designed. Such conflicts are resolved on a case by case basis, and recent jurisprudence has led to a weakening of certain moral rights (notably the right to the respect of the work).\n\nThe moral rights are inalienable, perpetual and inviolable. They pass to the author's heirs or executor on the author's death, but may not be otherwise transferred or sold under any circumstances, by either the author or his legal successors. Any agreement to waive an author's moral rights is null and void, although the author cannot be forced to protect his work: he perpetually retains the rights, but he also always has the option to refrain from exercising them.\n\nA work enters the public domain (\"domaine public\") once the proprietary rights over it have expired. It may then be used without charge, so long as the moral rights of the author are respected. Notably, the name of the author and the original title of the work must be cited.\n\nArt. L122-5 defines the exceptions to French copyright law, which are relatively restricted.\n\nOnce a work has been published, the author cannot prevent:\n\nThere is no specific provision for government works or laws: the copyright is normally held by the relevant public body.\n\nContrary to the position in most Common Law jurisdictions, the breach of proprietary rights is a criminal offense in France: \"contrefaçon\" (Arts. L335-2 to L335-4). This attracts a fine of up to 300,000 Euros (approx. US$391,850, or £250,300 as of January 2012) and a term of up to three (3) years imprisonment. These penalties are increased to a fine of up to €500,000 and a term of up to five (5) years imprisonment if the offense is committed in an organised group (\"bande organisée\"). There is no distinction between the breach of French copyright and the breach of foreign copyright, though the breach must occur in the French territory to be punishable. The import of infringing copies into France, and the distribution of such copies, are punished under the same provisions and are subject to the same penalties.\n\nUnder Art. 55 of the Constitution of 1958, a ratified treaty is superior to French domestic law. Hence the conflict of laws provisions of the Berne Convention will be used in determining the applicability of the French \"Code de la propriété intellectuelle\".\n\nThe \"droit d'auteur\" or authors' rights, in France, Belgium, Romania or Germany, grant (subject to some exceptions) the benefice of the right to natural persons (the author or his heir(s)) and denies it to legal persons (except for collective works, and for software), whereas \"droits voisins\" or neighbouring rights, grant rights to the editor or the producer. Both authors' rights and neighbouring rights are copyrights in the sense of English or U.S. law.\n\nCopyright requires a material fixation of the work, as for example a speech or a choreography work, although it is an intellectual work (an \"œuvre de l'esprit\"), they will not be protected if they are not embodied in a material support. Such requirement does not exist under the \"droit d'auteur\". As a consequence, an improvised live performance would still benefit from the protection of \"droit d'auteur\".\n\nThe classical difference between the two systems is the recognition of moral rights in the \"droit d'auteur\" whereas such rights did not initially exist in copyright. Hence, in civil law, the author is granted a moral right which sees the expression of the personality of the author in the work. In practice, the author will have a right to disclosure, a paternity right, a guarantee that the integrity of his work and his wishes are respected as well as a right of withdrawal (i.e., an author has the right to request his work to be withdrawn from circulation in exchange for compensation from those persons involved in its distribution who would moreover enjoy the right of priority in the event of the said work being redistributed). This right is attached to the author; it is inalienable and transmissible at the death of the author.\n\nHistorically, such rights do not exist in copyright, as it has been for decades an economic model, granting solely proprietary rights to authors. However several countries have harmonized their legislation since the ratification of the Berne Convention. However, the United States of America still refuse to apply the moral rights recognized by this convention.\n\nNonetheless, In the United States of America, moral rights are explicitly recognized for works of visual art. Indeed, the Visual Artists Rights Act of 1990 (VARA) recognizes moral rights but applies it only to works of visual art.\n\nAs regards the management of patrimonial rights, the difference between copyright and \"droit d'auteur\" is not so clear as in both system the producer controls the exploiting of the work. It can be stated that the \"droit d'auteur\" favours the author while copyright favours the right to copy (exploitation right) linked to the work itself.\n\nUnder French law, the audiovisual work is considered as a collaborative work, that is, a work that has been created by multiple authors. The authorship is granted to natural persons (co-author) that have created the relevant work: scriptwriter, author of the musical composition etc. (L.113.7).\nIn United States of America, audiovisual works are considered as \"works made for hire\" (works produced in relation with a contract for hire or service). The author of a work (either a natural or legal person) is the producer.\n\nIn France, a work is protected until 70 years after the death of the last surviving co-author.\n\nFrench law recognizes two types of droit d'auteur: moral rights and proprietary rights. French law rules the relation between authors and producers; such relations shall be formalized in a contract according to which the author assigns his proprietary rights to the producer.\n\nIn the United States of America, labor law rules relations between \"creators\" and the production companies. Scriptwriters and directors are consequently the employees of the producer. As such, they can be fired and replaced at any moment, and their names will appear in the theme song only if their work fulfills the necessary conditions for the attributions of \"credits\" as provisioned under the MBA (Minimum Basic Agreement).\n\nAmerican Law does not grant morals rights to the \"creators\". Some rights related to moral and proprietary rights are negotiated.\n\nThe difference between the two systems tends to disappear. For instance, moral rights are recognized progressively in the United States of America. Hence eleven U.S. states recognize explicitly moral right. Moreover, United States of America courts tend to take into account this right. California and New York guarantee the integrity of the author's work, and the Visual Artists Rights Act, enacted October 27, 1990, transposes in a federal law moral rights of artists. In the United Kingdom, moral rights have been incorporated in copyright law (Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988).\n\nFor a historical and comparative overview of moral rights law in the United States of America, see Thomas F. Cotter (1997) \"Pragmatism, Economics, and the Droit Moral\", 76 \"North Carolina Law Review\" 1 .\n\nThe current tendency is that the \"droit d'auteur\" tends to guarantee an economic protection while copyright guarantee increasingly moral rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37206680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37206680", "title": "Copyright law of Panama", "text": "Copyright law of Panama\n\nThe copyright law of Panama is primarily based on 1994 legislation, known as Law 15. The history of Panamanian intellectual property legislation dates to the 19th century. Only recently has copyright in Panama became seriously enforced, with past international criticism focusing on insufficient effort to enforce intellectual property laws. A new 2012 law has attracted concerns in the opposite direction, with many criticising it for being too draconian.\n\nSome provisions for copyright in Panama date to 1826, and Panama has been a party to a number of international copyright treaties throughout the 20th century. The modern copyright law in Panama is based on a 1994 law. The Panamanian National Assembly in August 1994 passed a comprehensive copyright bill (Law 15), based on a World Intellectual Property Organization model. The law modernizes copyright protection in Panama, provides for payment of royalties, facilitates the prosecution of copyright violators, protects computer software, and makes copyright infringement a felony, with a fine up to $20,000, handed by the National Office of Copyright at the Panamanian Ministry of Education. The law also recognizes the existence of moral rights. The length of duration of copyright is 50 years after the author's death, or the publication of an anonymous work.\n\nThe Law 23 of 1996 created the Intellectual Property Interdisciplinary Commission, which oversees many copyright-related cases in Panama.\n\nIn September 2012 Panama passed a new copyright law (Bill 510). The bill is a result of negotiations in the Panama–United States Trade Promotion Agreement. The new law gives the Panamanian copyright office (General Department of Copyright, DGDA) the power to fine those found to have violated copyright through file-sharing, and hand out fines of $100,000 ($200,000 on second offense); the offenders have fifteen days to defend themselves before being arrested. The fines would be kept by the copyright office, which has the right to use them for salary bonuses, with none of them passed to the copyright holders. The copyright infringers however may still be separately sued by the copyright holder. If found guilty, the copyright infringers also have to pay for a press announcement where they plead guilty of Internet piracy. The 2012 has also limited the applications of fair use in Panama.\n\nAlthough the lead prosecutor for intellectual property rights cases in the Panamanian Attorney General's Office has been involved in a number of prosecutions, the Panamanian Copyright Office has been described by a 2001 US report as \"small and ineffective\". According to that report, the Panamanian Copyright Office has been slow to draft and move forward further improvements to the Copyright Law to implement the new WIPO treaties (the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonographs Treaty). Nevertheless, their proposal also would establish new offenses, such as for internet-based copyright violations, raise the penalties for infractions, and enhance border measures. The legislation has been moving forward with technical assistance from SIECA (the Central American Economic Integration System).\n\nThe 2012 law has attracted criticism from free culture and digital rights activists (such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation), both in Panama and abroad. The bill's poor wording makes it possible that even users of paid-for streaming media content, such as Netflix or Pandora Radio services, could be seen as in violation of it. It has been called \"draconian\" and \"incredibly unbalanced\"; Andres Guadamuz from Technollama, quoted by Cory Doctorow, the EFF and others, has called it \"the worst [copyright law] in the history of the universe.\" EFF noted that the new law violates the principle of due process. The bill has been widely unknown to the Panamian public as of the moment it passed its legislation, and not subject to any significant public debate. The activists have criticized the US government for giving in to the entertainment industry by putting pressure on Panama and other Latin American countries, forcing them to adopt what they see as less progressive copyright bills, infringing on free speech in detriment to the public interest.\n\n"}
{"id": "54532538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54532538", "title": "Copyright law of Sweden", "text": "Copyright law of Sweden\n\nSwedish copyright law is regulated by the act from 1960 ('Swedish Act on Copyright in Literary and Artistic Works'). Like in most other countries, it grants the author or relevant copyright holders exclusive rights to the work for 70 years following the author’s death.\n\nHistory of copyright in Sweden dates back to the “Royal Act Regulating Book Printers” from 1752.\n\nCourt rulings of 2016 and 2017 effectively eliminated freedom of panorama in Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "13787930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13787930", "title": "Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007", "text": "Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007\n\nThe Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007 (c. 19) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that seeks to broaden the law on corporate manslaughter in the United Kingdom. The Act created a new offence respectively named corporate manslaughter in England and Wales and Northern Ireland, and corporate homicide in Scotland.\n\nThe Act received the royal assent on 26 July 2007 and came into force on 6 April 2008.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a corporation is considered a juristic person and can be capable of committing, being convicted of and sentenced for, a criminal offence. However, some conceptual difficulty lies in fixing a corporation with the appropriate \"mens rea\". Before the Act, a corporation could only be convicted of manslaughter if a single employee of the company committed all the elements of the offence and was of sufficient seniority to be seen as embodying the \"mind\" of the corporation. The practical consequence of this was that such convictions were rare and there was public discontent where it was perceived that culpable corporations had escaped censure and punishment.\n\nA Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Bill was introduced to the House of Commons by Home Secretary John Reid on 20 July 2006.\n\nThe Act attempts to align the offence of corporate killing north and south of the border. An indictable offence is committed if the way in which an organisation's activities are managed or organised:\n\n— and the way in which its activities are managed or organised by its senior management is a substantial element in the breach. Prosecution in England or Wales requires the permission of the Director of Public Prosecutions, and in Northern Ireland, the Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland and no natural person can be charged with aiding and abetting the offence. The common law offence of gross negligence manslaughter, as it applies to corporations, is abolished.\n\nThe offence applies to:\n\nA relevant duty of care is one of several duties of care owed by the organisation under the law of negligence and is a question of law for the judge. Various government policy decisions; policing, military and child protection activities; and emergency responses are excluded.\n\nThere are particular duties of care owed to persons in custody (s. 2(1)(d)) and, owing to the sensitivity and difficulty of such duties, implementation of this section was delayed. The Ministry of Justice published a report on progress towards implementation in July 2008.\n\nA breach of a duty of care by an organisation is a gross breach if the alleged conduct amounts to a breach of that duty that falls far below what can reasonably be expected of the organisation in the circumstances. The jury must consider whether the evidence shows that the organisation failed to comply with any health and safety legislation that relates to the alleged breach, and if so:\nThe jury may also:\n\nSenior management means the persons who play significant roles in:\n\nOn conviction a corporation may be ordered to remedy any breach, or to publicise its failures, or be given an unlimited fine. The Sentencing Guidelines Council issued a steps based definitive guideline, effective from 1 February 2016, for sentencing the offence of corporate manslaughter. The recommendations of the guideline are based on the size and turnover of the organisations with a starting fine of £300,000 and a no limit maximum. If an individual is also found liable for the offence of manslaughter, it can be prosecuted under the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 ruled by the same sentencing guideline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32079667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32079667", "title": "Enterprise theory", "text": "Enterprise theory\n\nThe enterprise theory of crime understands the organization of criminal behaviour as reflective of specific environmental factors - market or economic forces, influencing the motivations of criminals, how they interact, their perceptions or risk versus benefit, and the efficiency and efficacy of their modus operandi.\n\nUnder this theory, organised crime exists because legitimate markets leave many customers and potential customers unsatisfied. High demand for a particular good or service (e.g. drugs, prostitution, arms, slaves), low levels of risk detection and high profits lead to a conducive environment for entrepreneurial criminal groups to enter the market and profit by supplying those goods and services. For success, there must be:\n\nUnder these conditions competition is discouraged, ensuring criminal monopolies sustain profits. Legal substitution of goods or services may (by increasing competition) force the dynamic of organised criminal operations to adjust, as will deterrence measures (reducing demand), and the restriction of resources (controlling the ability to supply or produce to supply).\n"}
{"id": "8127231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8127231", "title": "Fordham International Law Journal", "text": "Fordham International Law Journal\n\nThe Fordham International Law Journal is a student-run law journal associated with the Fordham University School of Law. According to the Washington and Lee journal rankings, it is the 4th most cited student-edited international and comparative law journal in the United States. The current editor-in-chief is Shade Quailey.\n\nThe Fordham International Law Journal (\"the ILJ\" or \"ILJ\") was established in 1977 at the Fordham University School of Law. It was founded at that time as the Fordham International Law Forum. The ILJ attracts contributions from prominent statespersons and members of the academic, legal, and political communities. ILJ pieces have been cited in numerous US federal court decisions, US Supreme Court briefs and decisions, international courts decisions, law review articles, and CFR and ALR annotations.\n\nThe ILJ publishes five books annually covering diverse foreign and international legal topics and containing scholarly articles, essays, book reviews, and student pieces. The ILJ also publishes an annual Crowley Report in association with Fordham’s Leitner Center for International Law and Justice. The ILJ assists in the organization and production of the Fordham Corporate Law Institute's Conference on International Antitrust Law and Policy, the Leitner/Stein Colloquium, and the New York City Bar Association's reception for the legal advisers of the foreign ministries of the United Nations. The ILJ maintains an especially strong relationship with officials from the European Union and one book in each volume is devoted to EU law. Past volumes have included contributions from judges on the European Court of Justice, commissioners of the European Commission, and other senior EU officials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26263777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26263777", "title": "Forfeiture (law)", "text": "Forfeiture (law)\n\nIn modern U.S. usage, forfeiture is deprivation or destruction of a right in consequence of the non-performance of some obligation or condition. It can be accidental, and therefore is distinguished from waiver; \"see waiver and forfeiture.\" \n\nHistorically, forfeiture of a convict’s land and other assets followed on from conviction for certain serious offences (and thus resulted from criminal activity rather than from a failure to act). A striking illustration of the practical effects of this rule is Giles Corey’s refusal to plead, in the Salem Witch Trials, instead dying under \"peine forte et dure\". By refusing to plead he avoided the jurisdiction of the court and thus avoided conviction and the consequent forfeiture of his estate. Instead it passed to his sons.\n\nIn the early 21st century, the United States Government began to seize domain names, on the legal theory that they were property used in criminal activities and thus subject to forfeiture.\n\n"}
{"id": "21369868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21369868", "title": "German contract law", "text": "German contract law\n\nGerman contract law is found in the Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch, in both the \"Allgemeine Teil\" and the chapter on \"Schuldrecht\". It forms part of the general law of obligations.\n\n"}
{"id": "25603498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25603498", "title": "Goldman child abduction case", "text": "Goldman child abduction case\n\nThe Goldman child abduction case refers to the international child abduction of Sean Goldman and the international petition for his repatriation by his father, David Goldman, over the objections of the family of his mother, Bruna Bianchi Carneiro Ribeiro, and her widower, João Paulo Lins e Silva.\n\nThe child abduction case evolved around application of Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction. Sean Richard Bianchi Carneiro Ribeiro Goldman was born in the year 2000 in the United States, to an American father and Brazilian mother. In 2004, at the age of four years, Sean went to Brazil with his mother for a 2-week vacation. However, his mother refused to return to the United States. The father David Goldman vowed to have his son back and lawsuits and counter-lawsuits ensued both in the United States and in Brazil.\n\nBruna Bianchi eventually filed for, and was granted, a divorce by a Brazilian court. She then married Brazilian lawyer João Paulo Lins e Silva in 2007, and subsequently died while giving birth to their child in 2008. After Bruna's death, the Brazilian husband obtained a custody order for the child from the Brazilian courts by failing to inform them of Bruna's death and requesting a new Brazilian birth certificate be issued that listed himself as the father under the Brazilian concept of socio-affective paternity, on the basis of which, he refused to return the boy to David Goldman, Sean's father. Based on a decision of Brazil's Supreme Court, Sean was handed over to his father on December 24, 2009. As of January, 2010, his Brazilian family was hoping to regain custody. Sean's grandmother Silvana Bianchi Carneiro Ribeiro has vowed to continue the battle through the Brazilian courts. \nNew Jersey courts have denied visitation rights for both grandparents months before the grandfather's death.\n\nThe case was focus of international media coverage. It was also subject of deliberations during meetings of high level Brazilian and American officials. US Congress introduced H.R. 2702, legislation to suspend Brazil's Generalized System of Preferences trading benefit. The case was also discussed on the US House of Representatives floor with a statement from Congressman Chris Smith (Republican, New Jersey), a staunch supporter of David Goldman, a New Jersey resident; U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton treated the case as a diplomatic issue of Brazil's obligations under the Hague Convention.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11662072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11662072", "title": "Greek constitutional referendum, 1968", "text": "Greek constitutional referendum, 1968\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Greece on 15 November 1968. Voters were asked whether they wished to ratify a new constitution prepared by the dictatorial regime. It was approved by 92.1% of voters, with a voter turnout of 77.7%.\n\nA military junta, presided over by Colonel Georgios Papadopoulos, had ruled Greece since a group of middle-ranking officers staged a coup on 21 April 1967. King Constantine II reluctantly endorsed the coup, but started preparing for a counter-coup by elements of the armed forces loyal to him. The counter-coup, launched on 13 December 1967, failed, and the King and the royal family fled to Italy. In the aftermath of the royal coup attempt, the King was replaced by a regent, General Georgios Zoitakis, and Papadopoulos assumed the post of Prime Minister.\n\nOn 16 December, Papadopoulos announced that the new constitution, which had been prepared by a committee of legal experts under Charilaos Mitrelias, President of the Council of State, was to be formally presented to the people on 16 March 1968, and subsequently confirmed by a plebiscite in summer. The original draft of the Mitrelias Committee, however, was deemed too liberal, and was heavily amended in the following months. In its final form, as presented on 11 July 1968, it retained the monarchy, but granted the armed forces autonomy from governmental and parliamentary control and entrusted them with the role of guardians of the \"status quo\", it imposed restrictions on political parties and established a constitutional watchdog, the Constitutional Court, with wide-ranging powers, to regulate the country's political life.\n\nThe referendum itself was proclaimed for 29 September, and was regarded by the regime as a public vote of support on its policies. Participation was made obligatory and abstention punishable by imprisonment. The regime employed extensive propaganda in favour of a \"yes\" vote, while any opposition was silenced. The referendum's results were thus predictably in favour of the new constitution. The vote, despite obligatory participation, was still marked by a high abstention, which reached over 22%.\n"}
{"id": "22344515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22344515", "title": "Hanwha Total", "text": "Hanwha Total\n\nHanwha Total Petrochemicals Co., Ltd., (Hangul: 한화토탈) is a joint venture between Hanwha General Chemicals and Total S.A. Both companies own a 50% partnership in the venture.\n\nFounded in 2003 as a joint venture between Samsung General Chemicals and Total (as Samsung Atofina; changed name to Samsung Total in 2004), it was sold to Hanwha in 2015.\n\nThe company manufactures building block chemicals that go into the making of a host of other chemicals needed to make various consumer products. It starts with a naphtha cracker, yielding propylene and ethylene, which are the raw materials in the production of all manner of polymers. Hanwha Total divides its operations in three: polymer production (polyethylene, polypropylene, high- and low-density polyethylene), base chemicals (selling the ethylene and propylene the company doesn't use itself, as well as aromatics used to make the materials that go into synthetic fibers), and oil products (jet, diesel, gasoline...)\n\nHanwha Total Petrochemicals is headquartered in Seoul, South Korea, but operates a large petrochemical complex, consisting of 13 separate plants, at Daesan, in Korea’s Chungnam Province. The partnership employs 1100 people.\n\nHanwha Total's headquarters are located at Daesan, the South Chungcheong Province in South Korea.\nAnd in addition, PP, PE compounding plant was at Dongkwan in China. Sales offices are operated in Seoul, Busan, Daegu, Gwangju and Daejeon. In Asia, Hanwha Total's sales offices are located in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Hong Kong, Tokyo, and Nagoya. \n\n"}
{"id": "25103738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25103738", "title": "Initial Interest Confusion", "text": "Initial Interest Confusion\n\nInitial Interest Confusion is a legal doctrine under trademark law that permits a finding of infringement when there is temporary confusion that is dispelled before the purchase is made. Generally, trademark infringement is based on the likelihood of confusion for a consumer in the marketplace. This likelihood is typically determined using a multi-factor test that includes factors like the strength of the mark and evidence of any actual confusion. However, trademark infringement that relies on Initial Interest Confusion does not require a likelihood of confusion at the time of sale; the mark must only capture the consumer's initial attention.\n\nA famous hypothetical example of Initial Interest Confusion, first discussed in \"Brookfield v West Coast Entertainment\", involves two video stores. West Coast Video's competitor, Blockbuster Video, puts a billboard on a stretch of highway advertising a West Coast Video at an upcoming exit. In reality, there is no West Coast Video at this exit; it is a Blockbuster Video instead. The consumer, expecting to find a West Coast Video store, sees the Blockbuster Video and decides to patronize the suitable replacement. Even though the confusion has been dispelled, Blockbuster is still misappropriating the acquired goodwill of West Coast Video's trademark.\n\nThe Initial Interest Confusion doctrine has been applied by U.S. courts as early as 1975. However, with the appearance of the World Wide Web, Initial Interest Confusion claims have increased from 10 cases relying on the doctrine before 1990 to more than 100 between 1990 and 2005.\n\nThe first judgment discussing Initial Interest Confusion can be found in \"Grotrian, Helfferich, Schults., Th. Steinweg Nachf. v Steinway & Sons\", although the exact expression is never used. At the time of the dispute, Grotrian, Helfferich, Schultz., Th. Steinweg Nachf. (also referred to as \"Grotrian\") was importing into the United States pianos labeled \"Grotrian-Steinweg\" and advertised under the mark \"Steinweg\". Consequently, Steinway & Sons filled a trademark infringement suite against Grotrian. The parties are historically linkedthe founder of Steinway & Sons, Henry E. Steinway was initially making pianos labeled Steinweg in Germany, and his son partnered with Grotrian. When he immigrated to New York, the business was sold to the three employees Grotrian, Helfferich and Schulz, with the permission to use the \"Steinweg\" mark.\n\nOn appeal, 2nd Circuit Judge W. H. Timbers confirmed the opinion of Judge L. F. MacMahon that \"misled into an initial interest, a potential Steinway buyer may satisfy himself that the less expensive Grotrian-Steinweg is at least as good, if not better, than a Steinway.\" The Appellate Court however recognized the likelihood of confusion may not exist at the time of purchase because piano purchasers are considered to be careful enough buyers. Instead, the Court held that actual or potential confusion at the time of purchase did not need to be demonstrated in this case. The motivation behind this decision was that \"the Grotrian-Steinweg name would attract potential customers based on the reputation built up by Steinway in [the United States] for many years\". The Court concluded that Grotrian was attempting to increase their sales based on the strength of the name of \"Steinway\" and that \"such \"initial confusion\" works an injury to Steinway\".\n\nThe next significant decision relying on Initial Interest Confusion was \"Mobil Oil Corp. v Pegasus Petroleum Corp.\". In this case, Mobil sued Pegasus Petroleum, an oil trading company founded in 1981, on the basis of a trademark infringement concerning the \"Pegasus\" name. Mobil is the holder of a registered trademark in both the flying horse symbol representing the Greek mythological figure of Pegasus, and the name \"Pegasus\" itself. However, the logo of Pegasus Petroleum did not represent any sort of flying horse and solely consisted of two interlocking letters \"P\".\n\nAt the first trial, Judge L. F. MacMahon concluded that \"there is a sufficient likelihood of confusion between Mobil's flying horse symbol and Pegasus Petroleum's use of the 'Pegasus' mark to grant Mobil relief under the Lanham Act.\" While finding the decision \"not clearly erroneous\", the 2nd Circuit Court clarified on Appeal that the likelihood of confusion had to be understood as a \"likelihood that Pegasus Petroleum would gain crucial credibility during the initial phases of a deal\". The Court concluded that Pegasus Petroleum was misleading potential customers because of their initial interest suggested by the Pegasus mark and holds that this initial confusion alone constitutes a sufficient trademark injury.\n\nInitial Interest Confusion has become much more visible in the Internet age. Courts have upheld trademark infringement claims in domain names (cybersquatting), meta-tags that influence search engine results, and advertising keywords using the Initial Interest Confusion doctrine.\n\nIn \"Brookfield Communications, Inc. v. West Coast Entertainment Corp.\", the 9th Circuit embraces the Initial Interest Confusion doctrine which has previously been developed in the 2nd Circuit, and directly addresses the question whether registered trademark terms can be used as meta tags on web pages of non-trademark holders.\n\nBrookfield developed a software, named MovieBuff, which consisted of a searchable database of past, current and upcoming films, their box office reviews, schedules, and other data. A federal trademark registration for \"MovieBuff\" was issued in 1998, covering both goods and services. In order to sell the MovieBuff software, Brookfield registered two domain names: \"moviebuffonline.com\" and \"brookfieldcomm.com\" in 1996. He also placed a version of the database online at \"inhollywood.com\". Brookfield was not able to register the domain \"moviebuff.com\" at the time because West Coast has previously registered it.\n\nWest Coast, one of the nation's largest video rental store chains, subsequently launched on \"moviebuff.com\" an online movie database service similar to the one Brookfield had deployed. Furthermore, both this web site and \"westcoastvideo.com\", the legitimate domain of West Coast, contained the meta keywords \"moviebuff\" and \"moviebuff.com\". These meta keywords were intended to be indexed by search engines, so that a consumer searching for \"moviebuff\" could find the page. While this was a common way to increase visibility in earlier search engines, most modern search engines do not rely on meta keywords for ranking results.\n\nAlthough the 9th Circuit admitted that there was no likelihood of confusion between the two products, the Court nonetheless held West Coast liable for trademark infringement because the \"moviebuff\" trademark, as well as \"moviebuff.com\", appeared in the metatags of \"westcoastvideo.com\", the non-infringing domain used by West Coast. The Court states \"although there is no source confusion in the sense that consumers know they are patronizing West Coast rather than Brookfield, there is nevertheless initial interest confusion in the sense that, by using \"moviebuff.com\" or \"MovieBuff\" to divert people looking for \"MovieBuff\" to its web site, West Coast improperly benefits from the goodwill that Brookfield developed in its trademark.\"\n\nIn \"Playboy Enterprises, Inc. v. Netscape Communications Corp.\", Playboy charged Netscape (along with Excite) for selling banner ads keyed on trademarked terms \"playboy\" and \"playmate\". A district court dismissed the case, citing fair use and other arguments. However, the Ninth Circuit drew comparisons to \"Brookfield v West Coast\", and came to the conclusion that \"analogies to Brookfield suggest that PEI will be able to show a likelihood of confusion sufficient to defeat summary judgment. The Court held that Playboy was likely to show that consumers may be attracted to competitors' products by free riding Playboy's reputation when using the trademarks \"playboy\" and \"playmate\", even if the consumers are well aware that they are not buying services from Playboy.\n\nSeveral people have criticized the doctrine of Initial Interest Confusion. One concern is that Initial Interest Confusion \"lacks a rigorous definition\". Others have said that, absent a coherent conception of damage to the trademark holder, initial interest confusion makes actionable not \"actual damage incurred by the trademark holder\" but something more like \"brand indignation.\" Additionally, some state that because Initial Interest Confusion can be found without the multi-factor analysis of likelihood of confusion, it represents \"a short-cut to infringement, like a judicial game of 'Chutes and Ladders'\" Another concern is the lack of consensus among courts about the applicability of Initial Interest Confusion. Judge Berzon of the Ninth Circuit, in a concurring opinion in \"Playboy Enterprises, Inc. v. Netscape Communications Corp.\", asked whether the court wanted to \"to continue to apply an insupportable rule\", referring to Initial Interest Confusion as discussed in \"Brookfield\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10564173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10564173", "title": "International Fuel Tax Agreement", "text": "International Fuel Tax Agreement\n\nThe International Fuel Tax Agreement (or IFTA) is an agreement between the lower 48 states of the United States and the Canadian provinces, to simplify the reporting of fuel use by motor carriers that operate in more than one jurisdiction. Alaska, Hawaii, and the Canadian territories are not required to participate, however all of Canada and Alaska do. An operating carrier with IFTA receives an IFTA license and two decals for each qualifying vehicle it operates. The carrier files a quarterly fuel tax report. This report is used to determine the net tax or refund due and to redistribute taxes from collecting states to states that it is due.\n\nThis tax is required for motor vehicles used, designed, or maintained for transportation of persons or property and:\n\nExceptions exist for recreational vehicles such as motor homes, pickup trucks with attached campers, and buses when used exclusively for personal pleasure by an individual. Some states have their own exemptions that often apply to farm vehicles or government vehicles.\n\nPrior to IFTA each state had its own fuel tax system and a truck needed tax permits for each state in which it operated. Most states established Ports of Entry to issue permits and enforce tax collection, which was burdensome to the trucking industry and the states. Pre-IFTA trucks in interstate commerce carried special plates (\"Bingo Plates\") upon which each state's permit sticker was affixed. This was inefficient and proved to be costly for each state to manage.\n\nSimply stated, IFTA works as a \"pay now or pay later\" system. As commercial motor vehicles buy fuel, any fuel taxes paid are credited to that licensee's account. At the end of the fiscal quarter, the licensee completes their fuel tax report, listing all miles traveled in all participating jurisdictions and lists all gallons purchased. Then the average fuel mileage is applied to the miles traveled to determine the tax liability to each jurisdiction. Three states—Kentucky, New Mexico, and New York—have \"weight-mile\" taxes in addition to the standard fuel tax. Oregon has just a weight-mile tax. Any amount of fuel taxes due (or refund) is then paid to (or received from) the base jurisdiction who issued the license. The member jurisdictions then take care of transferring the funds accordingly. Audits are conducted only by the base state and fuel bonds are rarely required.\n"}
{"id": "2044391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044391", "title": "Invitee", "text": "Invitee\n\nIn the law of torts, an invitee is a person who is invited to land by the possessor of the land as a member of the public or one who enters the land of another for the purpose of business dealings with the possessor of the land. The status of a visitor as an invitee (as opposed to a trespasser or a licensee) defines the legal rights of the visitor if they are injured due to the negligence of the property owner.\n\nThere are generally two types of invitees i.e. Business Invitee and Public Invitee.\n\nEven if \"invited\" onto somebody's premises, a social guest is classified as a licensee.\n\nThe property owner has a duty to make the property safe for the invitee, which includes conducting a reasonable inspection of the premises to uncover hidden dangers. The property owner also has a duty to warn the invitee of hazardous conditions that cannot be fixed. Furthermore, property owners assume a duty to rescue an invitee who falls into peril while visiting the property. If an independent contractor hired by the landowner injures an invitee (intentionally or through negligence), the owner can be held vicariously liable. This represents the broadest duty of care owed to any class of visitors to the property.\n\nAn invitee is only an invitee within the scope of permission granted by the landowner. Thus, if an invitee is invited to do business in a store and is injured snooping around in the private storage area, he does not have invitee status in that area. So if the invitee is snooping around in the dark, trips and falls on something, the land occupier is not liable since the snooper exceeded the consent given him/her (\"Whelan v. Van Natta\").\n\nIn California, the case of \"Rowland v. Christian\" sought to eliminate the distinction between business invitee and licensee in regard to a land occupier owing a duty to act as a \"reasonable man\" in rendering the property safe for others.\n\n"}
{"id": "12061370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12061370", "title": "Kandahar Five", "text": "Kandahar Five\n\nThe Kandahar Five is a term used to refer to five men who had been held, for years, in a Taliban prison in Kandahar, Afghanistan, only to end up in extrajudicial detention in the United States Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba.\n\nSeveral of the men were interviewed by international reporters during a brief period of partial freedom when they were held in a refugee camp following the liberation of the prison by Northern Alliance forces, who freed 1500 men. They men say they ended up being traded or sold to the Americans in return for a bounty.\n\nAccording to the Associated Press, in June 2007 Commander Jeffrey Gordon, a Department of Defense spokesman defended some of the men's continued detention:\n"}
{"id": "7035197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7035197", "title": "Leser v. Garnett", "text": "Leser v. Garnett\n\nLeser v. Garnett, 258 U.S. 130 (1922), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution had been constitutionally established.\n\nOn August 26, 1920, the ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was certified by Secretary of State Bainbridge Colby. The amendment reads as follows:\nThe Supreme Court granted certiorari to decide \"Whether the Nineteenth Amendment has become part of the federal Constitution.\" The plaintiffs disputed the constitutionality of the amendment through three claims:\n\n\nIn a unanimous decision, the court addressed each objection in turn.\n\nIn response to the first objection, the court declared that since the Fifteenth Amendment had been accepted as valid for more than fifty years, and dealt with a similar matter (in this case, that voting rights could not be denied on account of race), it could not be argued that the new amendment was invalid due to its subject matter.\n\nIn response to the second objection, the court decided that when the state legislatures ratified the amendment, they were operating in a federal capacity as laid down in the Constitution, a role which \"transcends any limitations sought to be imposed by the people of a state.\"\n\nAs far as the ratifications of Tennessee and West Virginia were concerned, the court remarked that the additional ratifications of Connecticut and Vermont after the proclamation of the amendment rendered the point moot, but the court also addressed the substance of the objection. The court found that as the Secretary of State had accepted the ratifications by the legislatures of the two states as valid, they were valid, effectively ruling the matter as non-justiciable.\n\n"}
{"id": "21321895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21321895", "title": "List of miscarriage of justice cases", "text": "List of miscarriage of justice cases\n\nThis is a list of miscarriage of justice cases. This list includes cases where a convicted individual was later cleared of the crime and has received either an official exoneration, or a consensus exists that the individual was unjustly punished or where a conviction has been quashed and no retrial has taken place, so that the accused is assumed innocent. This list is not exhaustive. Crime descriptions with an asterisk indicate that the events were later determined not to be criminal acts.\n\nDue to the high number of notable wrongful conviction entries for the United States, the list can be viewed via the main article.\n"}
{"id": "51412848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51412848", "title": "Matt Lee (artist)", "text": "Matt Lee (artist)\n\nMatt Lee (born July 21, 1981) is a British artist, comedian, director, software freedom activist, hacker, and writer. He is a free software developer previously at GitLab and was formerly technical lead of Creative Commons, from 2014-2016. He is a speaker and webmaster for the GNU Project. He also founded the GNU social and GNU FM projects.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2012, Lee was the main contact behind the Free Software Foundation Defective by Design and Play Ogg campaigns. He also served as the chief-webmaster for the GNU Project.\n\nIn 2007, Lee wrote and produced \"Happy Birthday to GNU\" starring Stephen Fry, a short film to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the GNU Project. The final product was released under a Creative Commons license. In 2015, he co-wrote and directed his first feature, \"Orang-U: An Ape Goes To College\".\n\nLee currently delivers speeches on the following topics in English:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43803981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43803981", "title": "McCarthy v Wellington City", "text": "McCarthy v Wellington City\n\nMcCarthy v Wellington City [1966] NZLR 481 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding the legal issue of causation involving negligence cases in tort \n\nThe council had left a safe containing explosives unfastened to the ground and without any warning signs in a local quarry.\n\nSome boys from a nearby suburb managed to open the safe by pulling out the pins on the hinges and took the explosives from the safe home with them.\n\nThe boys later gave some of the explosives to another boy, who later had one of the detonators explode in his hand, causing injury.\n\nHis parents sued the council for negligence. The council defended the matter by arguing that the injury was unforeseeable, and even if it was foreseeable, causation had been broken by the intervening act of a third party, namely by the boy giving the injured boy the detonator.\n\nThe High Court ruled that the injury was foreseeable, and awarded damages, and this judgment was later upheld by the Court of Appeal.\n\nFootnote: The Accident Compensation Act [1974] now bars such a claim\n"}
{"id": "37470292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37470292", "title": "Michael Mastro", "text": "Michael Mastro\n\nMichael R. Mastro (born June 1, 1925), is a former American real estate developer who was in business for forty years managing apartments and midsize office parks in Seattle. He declared bankruptcy in 2009. Mastro and his wife, Linda, a former Bellevue grade school teacher, moved to France in 2011. They were arrested in Lake Annecy of the French Alps in 2012 where they faced extradition hearings. \nAfter several months of house arrest, they were freed in June 2013, when a French court denied a request for their extradition back to the United States.\n\nMastro’s bankruptcy has been described as the largest personal bankruptcy in the history of Washington state. Prior to the bankruptcy, the Mastros moved many of their assets, including a $15 million home in Medina, into an irrevocable trust account based in Belize.\n\nMichael Mastro has been in the real estate business since 1967, developing real estate projects worth at least $2 billion over 40 years, including commercial buildings and houses. He was involved in hard money loans, mostly to desperate real estate developers, with second or third deeds of trust on the project as collateral. His company, Michael R. Mastro Properties, was well-known in and around Seattle, the location of most of its projects and properties. The company's developments include Vancouver's Town Plaza, originally called the Tower Mall, the Oasis water park (sold in 2001) in Palm Springs, Allison Park Apartments in Des Moines, and Ballard Lofts in Seattle.\n\nIn 1974, Michael Mastro met divorcee Linda Ann Gale (b. 1949) in the Peoples Bank where they both worked, she as a loan officer, he as branch manager. They were married on June 3, 1989.\n\nIn 1989 Mastro sold office buildings, which he developed with a partner, to Boeing for $211 million. In the early 2000s Mastro started buying raw land for development of residential housing.\n\nMastro was forced into involuntary bankruptcy in July 2009, and filed for Chapter 7. On September 9, 2009, he listed assets in excess of $249 million and liabilities of over $586 million in a filing with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Washington.\n\nIn May 2010, a ruling was handed down by Bankruptcy Judge Samuel Steiner that two diamond rings valued at $1.4 million were not available to creditors since they belonged to Linda Mastro.\n\nIn February 2011, Mastro suffered a head injury while residing in Palm Desert. He was hospitalized for two weeks and underwent brain surgery.\n\nJune 2011 a judge ordered Michael and Linda Mastro to hand over the two diamond rings owned by Mrs. Mastro.\n\nIn May 2013 it was reported that the bankruptcy trustee, James Rigby, had filed an 82-page report which valued all the jewelry seized from the Mastros at $3 million.\n\nMastro's bankruptcy is believed to be the largest personal bankruptcy ever in the state of Washington.\n\nThe couple did not comply with the judge's order to hand over the diamond rings and disappeared in June 2011. In August 2011 a sealed criminal complaint was filed against Michael Mastro and his wife Linda charging them with bankruptcy fraud. After warrants for contempt of court (a civil violation) were issued for their arrest they were apprehended and taken into custody in France on October 24, 2012.\n\nOn October 25, 2012, a day after being arrested in France, Mastro and his wife, Linda were indicted by a federal grand jury on forty three counts of bankruptcy fraud and money laundering.\nThey were accused of hiding assets from creditors.\n\nThe couple remained in custody in Chambéry after a hearing held on Nov 7, 2012.\nA panel of three French judges rejected the couple's plea, based on their age and poor health, for a conditional release. The court felt that the charges against them for bankruptcy fraud and money laundering were serious enough to keep them in jail until such time as the US files for extradition. Prior to their arrest the Mastros were pursued by both the FBI and U.S. marshals for sixteen months.\n\nOn Nov 15, 2012, the \"Seattle Times\" reported that the two diamond rings were in French authorities' possession. According to Thomas Terrier, the Mastro’s French lawyer, the rings were in a safety box in Annecy.\n\nOn December 12, 2012, the \"Seattle Times\" reported that Michael and Linda Mastro had been released from jail after being incarcerated for seven weeks. A three-judge panel ruled that their health was suffering. They were to wear electronic monitoring devices and were free to walk around Annecy.\n\nBy December 12, 2012, the United States had not filed for extradition, which according to James Rigby, the United States court-appointed bankruptcy trustee, must be filed by December 26, 2012.\n\nOn February 23, 2013, the \"Seattle Times\" reported that the Court of Appeals in Chambery, France ruled that the Mastros cannot be extradited to the United States unless American authorities guarantee that the couple will not face any sanctions other than electronic surveillance. The extradition treaty between France and the United States allows France to deny extradition when the extradited party faces serious consequences related to health or age. Michael Mastro and his wife had been wearing surveillance devices but were freed after spending seven weeks in a French jail.\nOn June 5, 2013, La cour d'appel de Chambéry denied the extradition of Michael and Linda Mastro from France to the United States basing this decision on Michael Mastro’s age (88), poor health, and daily dependence on his wife. The appeal was filed by the U.S. Department of Justice. The United States request that the case be taken to the French Supreme Court was turned down by French prosecutors who found no grounds for appeal. As a result, the couple are no longer prevented from leaving their home in the evenings.\n\nBefore their bankruptcy the Mastros lived in a large waterfront house in Medina, a city in the . They moved to California in 2010. In 2011 they started a journey that began at Mr. Mastro’s sister's house in Seattle, went on to Toronto, Ontario, Canada and according to investigators Focus Ltd. ended in a €5,000 per month house in Veyrier-du-Lac, France, on the eastern shore of Lake Annecy. Then they moved to Marceau, France where the Mastros were arrested in 2012.\n\nTom Hazelrigg is a longtime business associate of Michael Mastro who was forced into bankruptcy by James Rigby and two other creditors in February 2012. On December 14, 2012 judge Timothy Dore denied Hazelrigg a discharge of his debt. Hazelrigg owed Mastro $76 million. In March 2015 he was sentenced to four and a half years in prison for tax evasion.\n\nIn November 2012 judge Marc Barreca denied Jack Dorssers, a former business associate of Mastro, a share in the $8.36 million proceeds from the sale of Mastro’s Medina, Washington home. The judge ruled that the contention that Mastro had put up the house as collateral in 2009 for a $1.2 million loan was a sham designed to keep the house away from the reach of other Mastro creditors. Jack Dorsser is appealing Barreca’s decision.\n\nOn September 9, 2014 Rami Grunbaum of the \"Seattle Times\" wrote that a federal appeals court in San Francisco ruled that Linda Mastro is entitled to appeal the bankruptcy court ruling about her assets.\n"}
{"id": "20950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20950", "title": "Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact", "text": "Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact\n\nThe Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, also known as the Nazi–Soviet Pact, the Hitler–Stalin Pact, the German–Soviet Nonaggression Pact or the Nazi German–Soviet Pact of Aggression (officially: \"Treaty of Non-aggression between Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics\"), was a neutrality pact between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union signed in Moscow on 23 August 1939 by foreign ministers Joachim von Ribbentrop and Vyacheslav Molotov, respectively. The pact was followed by the German–Soviet Commercial Agreement in February 1940.\n\nThe pact secretly delineated the spheres of interest between the two powers, confirmed by the supplementary protocol of the German–Soviet Frontier Treaty amended after the invasion of Poland. It remained in force for nearly two years, until the German government of Adolf Hitler ended the pact by launching an attack on the Soviet positions in Eastern Poland during Operation Barbarossa on 22 June 1941.\n\nThe clauses of the Nazi–Soviet Pact provided a written guarantee of non-belligerence by each party towards the other, and a declared commitment that neither government would ally itself to, or aid, an enemy of the other party. In addition to stipulations of non-aggression, the treaty included a secret protocol that divided territories of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland, and Romania into German and Soviet \"spheres of influence\", anticipating \"territorial and political rearrangements\" of these countries. Thereafter, Germany invaded Poland on 1 September 1939. Soviet Union leader Joseph Stalin ordered the Soviet invasion of Poland on 17 September, one day after a Soviet–Japanese ceasefire at the Khalkhin Gol came into effect. In March 1940, parts of the Karelia and Salla regions in Finland were annexed by the Soviet Union after the Winter War. This was followed by Soviet annexations of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and parts of Romania (Bessarabia, Northern Bukovina, and the Hertza region). Advertised concern about ethnic Ukrainians and Belarusians had been proffered as justification for the Soviet invasion of Poland. Stalin's invasion of Bukovina in 1940 violated the pact, as it went beyond the Soviet sphere of influence agreed with the Axis.\n\nThe territories of Poland annexed by the Soviet Union after the 1939 Nazi–Soviet invasion of Poland remained in the USSR at the end of World War II. The new border was set up along the Curzon Line. Only the region around Białystok and a small part of Galicia east of the San river around Przemyśl were returned to the Polish state from that line. Of all other territories annexed by the USSR in 1939–40, the ones detached from Finland (Karelia, Petsamo), Estonia (Ingrian area and Petseri County) and Latvia (Abrene) remain part of the Russian Federation, the successor state of the USSR upon the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. The territories annexed from Romania had also been integrated into the Soviet Union (as the Moldavian SSR, or oblasts of the Ukrainian SSR); nowadays, the core of Bessarabia forms Moldova, while the northern part of Bessarabia, Northern Bukovina, and Hertza form the Chernivtsi Oblast of Ukraine, and Southern Bessarabia is part of the Odessa Oblast, also in Ukraine.\n\nAfter the war, von Ribbentrop was convicted of war crimes and executed. Molotov died aged 96 in 1986, five years before the USSR's dissolution.\n\nThe existence of the secret protocol was denied by the Soviet government until 1989, when it was finally acknowledged and denounced. Vladimir Putin while condemning the pact as 'immoral' has also defended the pact as a \"necessary evil\".\n\nThe outcome of World War I was disastrous for both the German Reich and the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic. During the war, the Bolsheviks struggled for survival, and Vladimir Lenin recognised the independence of Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. Moreover, facing a German military advance, Lenin and Trotsky were forced to enter into the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, which ceded massive western Russian territories to the German Empire. After Germany's collapse, a multinational Allied-led army intervened in the Russian Civil War (1917–22).\n\nOn 16 April 1922, Germany and the Soviet Union entered the Treaty of Rapallo, pursuant to which they renounced territorial and financial claims against each other. Each party further pledged neutrality in the event of an attack against the other with the 1926 Treaty of Berlin. While trade between the two countries fell sharply after World War I, trade agreements signed in the mid-1920s helped to increase trade to 433 million Reichsmarks per year by 1927.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1930s, the Nazi Party's rise to power increased tensions between Germany and the Soviet Union along with other countries with ethnic Slavs, who were considered \"Untermenschen\" (inferior) according to Nazi racial ideology. Moreover, the anti-Semitic Nazis associated ethnic Jews with both communism and financial capitalism, both of which they opposed. Nazi theory held that Slavs in the Soviet Union were being ruled by \"Jewish Bolshevik\" masters. In 1934, Hitler himself had spoken of an inescapable battle against both Pan-Slavism and Neo-Slavism, the victory in which would lead to \"permanent mastery of the world\", though he stated that they would \"walk part of the road with the Russians, if that will help us.\" The resulting manifestation of German anti-Bolshevism and an increase in Soviet foreign debts caused German–Soviet trade to dramatically decline. Imports of Soviet goods to Germany fell to 223 million Reichsmarks in 1934 as the more isolationist Stalinist regime asserted power and the abandonment of post–World War I Treaty of Versailles military controls decreased Germany's reliance on Soviet imports.\n\nIn 1936, Germany and Fascist Italy supported Spanish Nationalists in the Spanish Civil War, while the Soviets supported the partially socialist-led Second Spanish Republic. Thus the Spanish Civil War became a proxy war between Germany and the USSR. In 1936, Germany and Japan entered the Anti-Comintern Pact, and were joined a year later by Italy.\n\nHitler's fierce anti-Soviet rhetoric was one of the reasons why Britain and France decided that Soviet participation in the 1938 Munich Conference regarding Czechoslovakia would be both dangerous and useless. The Munich Agreement that followed marked a partial German annexation of Czechoslovakia in late 1938 followed by its complete dissolution in March 1939, which was part of the appeasement of Germany conducted by Chamberlain's and Daladier's cabinets. This policy immediately raised the question of whether the Soviet Union could avoid being next on Hitler's list. The Soviet leadership believed that the West wanted to encourage German aggression in the East and that France and Britain might stay neutral in a war initiated by Germany, hoping that the warring states would wear each other out and put an end to both the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany.\n\nFor Germany, because an autarkic economic approach or an alliance with Britain were impossible, closer relations with the Soviet Union to obtain raw materials became necessary, if not just for economic reasons alone. Moreover, an expected British blockade in the event of war would create massive shortages for Germany in a number of key raw materials. After the Munich agreement, the resulting increase in German military supply needs and Soviet demands for military machinery, talks between the two countries occurred from late 1938 to March 1939. The third Soviet Five Year Plan required new infusions of technology and industrial equipment. German war planners had estimated serious shortfalls of raw materials if Germany entered a war without Soviet supply.\n\nOn 31 March 1939, in response to Nazi Germany's defiance of the Munich Agreement and occupation of Czechoslovakia, Great Britain pledged its support and that of France to guarantee the independence of Poland, Belgium, Romania, Greece, and Turkey. On 6 April Poland and Britain agreed to formalize the guarantee as a military alliance, pending negotiations. On 28 April, Hitler denounced the 1934 German–Polish Non-Aggression Pact and the 1935 Anglo–German Naval Agreement.\n\nStarting in mid-March 1939, in attempts to contain Hitler's expansionism, the Soviet Union, Britain and France traded a flurry of suggestions and counterplans regarding a potential political and military agreement. Although informal consultations commenced in April, the main negotiations began only in May. At the same time, throughout early 1939, Germany had secretly hinted to Soviet diplomats that it could offer better terms for a political agreement than Britain and France.\n\nThe Soviet Union, which feared Western powers and the possibility of \"capitalist encirclements\", had little faith either that war could be avoided, or faith in the Polish army, and wanted nothing less than an ironclad military alliance with France and Britain that would provide a guaranteed support for a two-pronged attack on Germany; thus, Stalin's adherence to the collective security line was purely conditional. Britain and France believed that war could still be avoided, and that the Soviet Union, weakened by the Great Purge, could not be a main military participant, a point that many military sources were at variance with, especially given the Soviet victories over the Japanese Kwantung Army on the Manchurian frontier. France was more anxious to find an agreement with the USSR than was Britain; as a continental power, it was more willing to make concessions and more fearful of the dangers of an agreement between the USSR and Germany. These contrasting attitudes partly explain why the USSR has often been charged with playing a double game in 1939: carrying on open negotiations for an alliance with Britain and France while secretly considering propositions from Germany.\n\nBy the end of May, drafts were formally presented. In mid-June, the main Tripartite negotiations started. The discussion was focused on potential guarantees to central and east European countries should a German aggression arise. The USSR proposed to consider that a political turn towards Germany by the Baltic states would constitute an \"indirect aggression\" towards the Soviet Union. Britain opposed such proposals, because they feared the Soviets' proposed language could justify a Soviet intervention in Finland and the Baltic states, or push those countries to seek closer relations with Germany. The discussion about a definition of \"indirect aggression\" became one of the sticking points between the parties, and by mid-July, the tripartite political negotiations effectively stalled, while the parties agreed to start negotiations on a military agreement, which the Soviets insisted must be entered into simultaneously with any political agreement. One day before the military negotiations began, the politburo of CPSU, pessimistically expecting that the coming negotiations were going nowhere, formally decided to consider German proposals seriously. The military negotiations began on August 12 in Moscow with British delegation headed by Sir Reginald Drax, a retired Admiral, French delegation headed by General and Soviet delegation headed by Kliment Voroshilov, the commissar of defense and Boris Shaposhnikov, chief of the general staff. Without written credentials, Drax was not authorized to guarantee anything to the Soviet Union and instructed by the British government to prolong the discussions as long as possible and avoid answering the question that whether Poland would agree to permit Soviet troops to enter the country if the Germans invaded. As the negotiations failed, a great opportunity to prevent the German aggression was probably lost.\n\nFrom April to July, Soviet and German officials made statements regarding the potential for the beginning of political negotiations, while no actual negotiations took place during that time period. \"The Soviet Union had wanted good relations with Germany for years and was happy to see that feeling finally reciprocated\" says historian Gerhard L. Weinberg. The ensuing discussion of a potential political deal between Germany and the Soviet Union had to be channeled into the framework of economic negotiations between the two countries, because close military and diplomatic connections, as was the case before the mid-1930s, had been largely severed. In May, Stalin replaced his Foreign Minister Maxim Litvinov, who was regarded as pro-western and who was also Jewish, with Vyacheslav Molotov, allowing the Soviet Union more latitude in discussions with more parties, not only with Britain and France.\n\nIn late July and early August 1939, Soviet and German officials agreed on most of the details for a planned economic agreement, and specifically addressed a potential political agreement, which the Soviets stated could only come after an economic agreement.\n\nIn early August, Germany and the Soviet Union worked out the last details of their economic deal, and started to discuss a political alliance. They explained to each other the reasons for their foreign policy hostility in the 1930s, finding common ground in the anti-capitalism of both countries.\n\nAt the same time, British, French, and Soviet negotiators scheduled three-party talks on military matters to occur in Moscow in August 1939, aiming to define what the agreement would specify should be the reaction of the three powers to a German attack. The tripartite military talks, started in mid-August, hit a sticking point regarding the passage of Soviet troops through Poland if Germans attacked, and the parties waited as British and French officials overseas pressured Polish officials to agree to such terms. Polish officials refused to allow Soviet troops into Polish territory if Germany attacked; Polish foreign minister Józef Beck pointed out that the Polish government feared that once the Red Army entered their territory, it might never leave.\n\nOn August 19, the 1939 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement was finally signed. On 21 August, the Soviets suspended the tripartite military talks, citing other reasons. That same day, Stalin received assurance that Germany would approve secret protocols to the proposed non-aggression pact that would place half of Poland (east of the Vistula river), Latvia, Estonia, Finland, and Bessarabia in the Soviets' sphere of influence. That night, Stalin replied that the Soviets were willing to sign the pact and that he would receive Ribbentrop on 23 August.\n\nOn 22 August, one day after the talks broke down with France and Britain, Moscow revealed that Ribbentrop would visit Stalin the next day. This happened while the Soviets were still negotiating with the British and French missions in Moscow. With the Western nations unwilling to accede to Soviet demands, Stalin instead entered a secret Nazi–Soviet pact. On 24 August a 10-year non-aggression pact was signed with provisions that included: consultation, arbitration if either party disagreed, neutrality if either went to war against a third power, no membership of a group \"which is directly or indirectly aimed at the other\". The article \"On Soviet–German Relations\" in the Soviet newspaper \"Izvestia\" of August 21, 1939, stated:\n\nThere was also a secret protocol to the pact, revealed only after Germany's defeat in 1945, although hints about its provisions were leaked much earlier, e.g., to influence Lithuania. According to the protocol, Romania, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Finland were divided into German and Soviet \"spheres of influence\". In the north, Finland, Estonia and Latvia were assigned to the Soviet sphere. Poland was to be partitioned in the event of its \"political rearrangement\": the areas east of the Pisa, Narev, Vistula and San rivers would go to the Soviet Union, while Germany would occupy the west. Lithuania, adjacent to East Prussia, would be in the German sphere of influence, although a second secret protocol agreed to in September 1939 reassigned the majority of Lithuania to the USSR. According to the protocol, Lithuania would be granted its historical capital Vilnius, which was under Polish control during the inter-war period. Another clause of the treaty stipulated that Germany would not interfere with the Soviet Union's actions towards Bessarabia, then part of Romania; as a result, not only Bessarabia, but Northern Bukovina and Hertza regions too, were occupied by the Soviets, and integrated into the Soviet Union.\n\nAt the signing, Ribbentrop and Stalin enjoyed warm conversations, exchanged toasts and further addressed the prior hostilities between the countries in the 1930s. They characterized Britain as always attempting to disrupt Soviet–German relations, stated that the Anti-Comintern pact was not aimed at the Soviet Union, but actually aimed at Western democracies and \"frightened principally the City of London [i.e., the British financiers] and the English shopkeepers\".\n\nOn 24 August, \"Pravda\" and \"Izvestia\" carried news of the non-secret portions of the Pact, complete with the now infamous front-page picture of Molotov signing the treaty, with a smiling Stalin looking on. The news was met with utter shock and surprise by government leaders and media worldwide, most of whom were aware only of the British–French–Soviet negotiations that had taken place for months. The Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact was received with shock by Nazi Germany's allies, notably Japan, by the Comintern and foreign communist parties, and by Jewish communities all around the world. The same day, German diplomat Hans von Herwarth (whose grandmother was Jewish) informed Guido Relli, an Italian diplomat, and American chargé d'affaires Charles Bohlen on the secret protocol regarding vital interests in the countries' allotted \"spheres of influence\", without revealing the annexation rights for \"territorial and political rearrangement\".\n\n\"Time Magazine\" repeatedly referred to the Pact as the \"Communazi Pact\" and its participants as \"communazis\" until April 1941.\n\nSoviet propaganda and representatives went to great lengths to minimize the importance of the fact that they had opposed and fought against the Nazis in various ways for a decade prior to signing the Pact. Upon signing the pact, Molotov tried to reassure the Germans of his good intentions by commenting to journalists that \"fascism is a matter of taste\". For its part, Nazi Germany also did a public volte-face regarding its virulent opposition to the Soviet Union, though Hitler still viewed an attack on the Soviet Union as \"inevitable\".\n\nConcerns over the possible existence of a secret protocol were first expressed by the intelligence organizations of the Baltic states scant days after the pact was signed. Speculation grew stronger when Soviet negotiators referred to its content during negotiations for military bases in those countries (see occupation of the Baltic States).\n\nThe day after the Pact was signed, the French and British military negotiation delegation urgently requested a meeting with Soviet military negotiator Kliment Voroshilov. On August 25, Voroshilov told them \"[i]n view of the changed political situation, no useful purpose can be served in continuing the conversation.\" That day, Hitler told the British ambassador to Berlin that the pact with the Soviets prevented Germany from facing a two front war, changing the strategic situation from that in World War I, and that Britain should accept his demands regarding Poland.\n\nOn 25 August, surprising Hitler, Britain entered into a defense pact with Poland. Consequently, Hitler postponed his planned 26 August invasion of Poland to 1 September. In accordance with the defense pact, Britain and France declared war on Germany on 3 September.\n\nOn 1 September, Germany invaded Poland from the west. Within the first few days of the invasion, Germany began conducting massacres of Polish and Jewish civilians and POWs. These executions took place in over 30 towns and villages in the first month of German occupation. The \"Luftwaffe\" also took part by strafing fleeing civilian refugees on roads and carrying out a bombing campaign. The Soviet Union assisted German air forces by allowing them to use signals broadcast by the Soviet radio station at Minsk, allegedly \"for urgent aeronautical experiments\".\nHitler declared at Danzig:\n\nIn the opinion of Robert Service, Stalin did not move instantly; he was waiting to see whether the Germans would halt within the agreed area, and also the Soviet Union needed to secure the frontier in the Soviet–Japanese Border Wars. On 17 September the Red Army invaded Poland, violating the 1932 Soviet–Polish Non-Aggression Pact, and occupied the Polish territory assigned to it by the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. This was followed by co-ordination with German forces in Poland.\n\nPolish troops already fighting much stronger German forces on its western side desperately tried to delay the capture of Warsaw. Consequently, Polish forces were not able to mount significant resistance against the Soviets.\n\nOn 21 September, the Soviets and Germans signed a formal agreement coordinating military movements in Poland, including the \"purging\" of saboteurs. Joint German–Soviet parades were held in Lvov and Brest-Litovsk, while the countries' military commanders met in the latter location. Stalin had decided in August that he was going to liquidate the Polish state, and a German–Soviet meeting in September addressed the future structure of the \"Polish region\". Soviet authorities immediately started a campaign of Sovietization of the newly acquired areas. The Soviets organized staged elections, the result of which was to become a legitimization of the Soviet annexation of eastern Poland.\n\nEleven days after the Soviet invasion of the Polish Kresy, the secret protocol of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact was modified by the German–Soviet Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Demarcation, allotting Germany a larger part of Poland and transferring Lithuania's territory (with the exception of the left bank of river Scheschupe, the \"Lithuanian Strip\") from the envisioned German sphere to the Soviets. On 28 September 1939, the Soviet Union and German Reich issued a joint declaration in which they declared:\nOn 3 October, Friedrich Werner von der Schulenburg, German ambassador in Moscow, informed Joachim Ribbentrop that the Soviet government was willing to cede the city of Vilnius and its environs. On 8 October 1939, a new Nazi–Soviet agreement was reached by an exchange of letters between Vyacheslav Molotov and the German Ambassador.\n\nThe Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania were given no choice but to sign a so-called \"Pact of defence and mutual assistance\" which permitted the Soviet Union to station troops in them.\n\nAfter the Baltic states were forced to accept treaties, Stalin turned his sights on Finland, confident that Finnish capitulation could be attained without great effort. The Soviets demanded territories on the Karelian Isthmus, the islands of the Gulf of Finland and a military base near the Finnish capital Helsinki, which Finland rejected. The Soviets staged the shelling of Mainila and used it as a pretext to withdraw from the non-aggression pact. The Red Army attacked in November 1939. Simultaneously, Stalin set up a puppet government in the Finnish Democratic Republic. The leader of the Leningrad Military District Andrei Zhdanov commissioned a celebratory piece from Dmitri Shostakovich, entitled \"Suite on Finnish Themes\" to be performed as the marching bands of the Red Army would be parading through Helsinki. After Finnish defenses surprisingly held out for over three months while inflicting stiff losses on Soviet forces, the Soviets settled for an interim peace. Finland ceded southeastern areas of Karelia (10% of Finnish territory), which resulted in approximately 422,000 Karelians (12% of Finland's population) losing their homes. Soviet official casualty counts in the war exceeded 200,000, although Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev later claimed the casualties may have been one million.\n\nAt around this time, after several Gestapo–NKVD Conferences, Soviet NKVD officers also conducted lengthy interrogations of 300,000 Polish POWs in camps that were, in effect, a selection process to determine who would be killed. On March 5, 1940, in what would later be known as the Katyn massacre, orders were signed to execute 25,700 Polish POWs, labeled \"nationalists and counterrevolutionaries\", kept at camps and prisons in occupied western Ukraine and Belarus.\n\nIn mid-June 1940, while international attention focused on the German invasion of France, Soviet NKVD troops raided border posts in Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia.\nState administrations were liquidated and replaced by Soviet cadres, who deported or killed 34,250 Latvians, 75,000 Lithuanians and almost 60,000 Estonians. Elections took place with single pro-Soviet candidates listed for many positions, with resulting peoples assemblies immediately requesting admission into the USSR, which the Soviet Union granted. (The USSR annexed the whole of Lithuania, including the Scheschupe area, which had been earmarked for Germany.)\n\nFinally, on 26 June, four days after France had sued for an armistice with the Third Reich, the Soviet Union issued an ultimatum demanding Bessarabia and, unexpectedly, Northern Bukovina from Romania. Two days later the Romanians acceded to the Soviet demands and the Soviets occupied the territories. The Hertza region was initially not requested by the USSR but was later occupied by force after the Romanians agreed to the initial Soviet demands. The subsequent waves of deportations began in Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina.\n\nAt the end of October 1939, Germany enacted the death penalty for disobedience to the German occupation. Germany began a campaign of \"Germanization\", which meant to assimilate the occupied territories politically, culturally, socially, and economically into the German Reich. 50,000–200,000 Polish children were kidnapped to be Germanized.\nElimination of Polish elites and intelligentsia was part of Generalplan Ost. The Intelligenzaktion, a plan to eliminate the Polish intelligentsia, Poland's 'leadership class', took place soon after the German invasion of Poland, lasting from fall of 1939 to the spring of 1940. As the result of this operation in 10 regional actions about 60,000 Polish nobles, teachers, social workers, priests, judges and political activists were killed. It was continued in May 1940 when Germany launched AB-Aktion, More than 16,000 members of the intelligentsia were murdered in Operation Tannenberg alone.\n\nGermany also planned to incorporate all land into the Third Reich. This effort resulted in the forced resettlement of 2 million Poles. Families were forced to travel in the severe winter of 1939–40, leaving behind almost all of their possessions without recompense. As part of Operation Tannenberg alone, 750,000 Polish peasants were forced to leave and their property was given to Germans. A further 330,000 were murdered. Germany eventually planned to move ethnic Poles to Siberia.\n\nAlthough Germany used forced labourers in most occupied countries, Poles and other Slavs were viewed as inferior by Nazi propaganda, thus, better suited for such duties. Between 1 and 2.5 million Polish citizens were transported to the Reich for forced labour, against their will. All Polish males were required to perform forced labour. While ethnic Poles were subject to selective persecution, all ethnic Jews were targeted by the Reich. In the winter of 1939–40, about 100,000 Jews were thus deported to Poland. They were initially gathered into massive urban ghettos, such as 380,000 held in the Warsaw Ghetto, where large numbers died of starvation and diseases under the harsh conditions therein, including 43,000 in the Warsaw Ghetto alone. Poles and ethnic Jews were imprisoned in nearly every camp of the extensive concentration camp system in German-occupied Poland and the Reich. In Auschwitz, which began operating on 14 June 1940, 1.1 million people perished.\n\nIn the summer of 1940, fear of the Soviet Union, in conjunction with German support for the territorial demands of Romania's neighbors and the Romanian government's own miscalculations, resulted in more territorial losses for Romania. Between 28 June and 4 July, the Soviet Union occupied and annexed Bessarabia, Northern Bukovina and the Hertza region of Romania.\n\nOn 30 August, Ribbentrop and Italian Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano issued the Second Vienna Award giving Northern Transylvania to Hungary. On 7 September, Romania ceded Southern Dobruja to Bulgaria (Axis-sponsored Treaty of Craiova). After various events in Romania, over the next few months, it increasingly took on the aspect of a German-occupied country.\n\nThe Soviet-occupied territories were converted into republics of the Soviet Union. During the two years following the annexation, the Soviets arrested approximately 100,000 Polish citizens and deported between 350,000 and 1,500,000, of whom between 250,000 and 1,000,000 died, mostly civilians. Forced re-settlements into Gulag labour camps and exile settlements in remote areas of the Soviet Union occurred. According to Norman Davies, almost half of them were dead by July 1940.\n\nOn 10 January 1941, Germany and the Soviet Union signed an agreement settling several ongoing issues. Secret protocols in the new agreement modified the \"Secret Additional Protocols\" of the German–Soviet Boundary and Friendship Treaty, ceding the Lithuanian Strip to the Soviet Union in exchange for 7.5 million dollars (31.5 million Reichsmark). The agreement formally set the border between Germany and the Soviet Union between the Igorka river and the Baltic Sea. It also extended trade regulation of the 1940 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement until August 1, 1942, increased deliveries above the levels of year one of that agreement, settled trading rights in the Baltics and Bessarabia, calculated the compensation for German property interests in the Baltic States now occupied by the Soviets and other issues. It also covered the migration to Germany within two and a half months of ethnic Germans and German citizens in Soviet-held Baltic territories, and the migration to the Soviet Union of Baltic and \"White Russian\" \"nationals\" in German-held territories.\n\nThe agreement stunned the world. John Gunther, in Moscow in August 1939, recalled that \"Nothing more unbelievable could be imagined. Astonishment and skepticism turned quickly to consternation and alarm\". Before the pact's announcement, Communists in the West denied that such a treaty would be signed. Future member of the Hollywood Ten Herbert Biberman denounced rumors as \"Fascist propaganda\". Earl Browder, head of the Communist Party USA, stated that \"there is as much chance of agreement as of Earl Browder being elected president of the Chamber of Commerce.\"\n\nGunther wrote, however, that some knew that \"communism and Fascism were more closely allied than was normally understood\"; Ernst von Weizsäcker had told Nevile Henderson on 16 August that the Soviet Union would \"join in sharing in the Polish spoils\". Beginning in September 1939, the Soviet Comintern suspended all anti-Nazi and anti-fascist propaganda, explaining that the war in Europe was a matter of capitalist states attacking each other for imperialist purposes. Western Communists acted accordingly; while before they supported protecting collective security, now they denounced Britain and France going to war.\n\nWhen anti-German demonstrations erupted in Prague, Czechoslovakia, the Comintern ordered the Czech Communist Party to employ all of its strength to paralyze \"chauvinist elements.\" Moscow soon forced the Communist Parties of France and Great Britain to adopt an anti-war position. On 7 September, Stalin called Georgi Dimitrov, and the latter sketched a new Comintern line on the war. The new line—which stated that the war was unjust and imperialist—was approved by the secretariat of the Communist International on 9 September. Thus, the various western Communist parties now had to oppose the war, and to vote against war credits. Although the French Communists had unanimously voted in Parliament for war credits on 2 September and on 19 September declared their \"unshakeable will\" to defend the country, on 27 September the Comintern formally instructed the party to condemn the war as imperialist. By 1 October the French Communists advocated listening to German peace proposals, and Communist leader Maurice Thorez deserted from the French Army on 4 October and fled to Russia. Other Communists also deserted from the army.\n\nThe Communist Party of Germany featured similar attitudes. In \"Die Welt\", a communist newspaper published in Stockholm the exiled communist leader Walter Ulbricht opposed the allies (Britain representing \"the most reactionary force in the world\") and argued: \"The German government declared itself ready for friendly relations with the Soviet Union, whereas the English–French war bloc desires a war against the socialist Soviet Union. The Soviet people and the working people of Germany have an interest in preventing the English war plan.\"\n\nDespite a warning by the Comintern, German tensions were raised when the Soviets stated in September that they must enter Poland to \"protect\" their ethnic Ukrainian and Belarusian brethren therein from Germany; Molotov later admitted to German officials that this excuse was necessary because the Kremlin could find no other pretext for the Soviet invasion.\n\nDuring the early months of the pact's operation, the Soviet foreign policy became critical of the Allies and more pro-German in turn. During the fifth session of the Supreme Soviet on 31 October 1939 Molotov analysed the international situation thus giving the direction for Communist propaganda. According to Molotov Germany had a legitimate interest in regaining its position as a great power and the Allies had started an aggressive war in order to maintain the Versailles system.\n\nGermany and the Soviet Union entered an intricate trade pact on February 11, 1940, that was over four times larger than the one the two countries had signed in August 1939. The trade pact helped Germany to surmount a British blockade of Germany. In the first year, Germany received one million tons of cereals, half a million tons of wheat, 900,000 tons of oil, 100,000 tons of cotton, 500,000 tons of phosphates and considerable amounts of other vital raw materials, along with the transit of one million tons of soybeans from Manchuria. These and other supplies were being transported through Soviet and occupied Polish territories. The Soviets were to receive a naval cruiser, the plans to the battleship \"Bismarck\", heavy naval guns, other naval gear and thirty of Germany's latest warplanes, including the Bf 109 and Bf 110 fighters and Ju 88 bomber. The Soviets would also receive oil and electric equipment, locomotives, turbines, generators, diesel engines, ships, machine tools and samples of German artillery, tanks, explosives, chemical-warfare equipment and other items.\n\nThe Soviets also helped Germany to avoid British naval blockades by providing a submarine base, Basis Nord, in the northern Soviet Union near Murmansk. This also provided a refueling and maintenance location, and a takeoff point for raids and attacks on shipping. In addition, the Soviets provided Germany with access to the Northern Sea Route for both cargo ships and raiders (though only the commerce raider used the route before the German invasion), which forced Britain to protect sea lanes in both the Atlantic and the Pacific.\n\nThe Finnish and Baltic invasions began a deterioration of relations between the Soviets and Germany. Stalin's invasions were a severe irritant to Berlin, as the intent to accomplish these was not communicated to the Germans beforehand, and prompted concern that Stalin was seeking to form an anti-German bloc. Molotov's reassurances to the Germans, and the Germans' mistrust, intensified. On June 16, as the Soviets invaded Lithuania, but before they had invaded Latvia and Estonia, Ribbentrop instructed his staff \"to submit a report as soon as possible as to whether in the Baltic States a tendency to seek support from the Reich can be observed or whether an attempt was made to form a bloc.\"\n\nIn August 1940, the Soviet Union briefly suspended its deliveries under their commercial agreement after their relations were strained following disagreement over policy in Romania, the Soviet war with Finland, Germany falling behind in its deliveries of goods under the pact and with Stalin worried that Hitler's war with the West might end quickly after France signed an armistice. The suspension created significant resource problems for Germany. By the end of August, relations improved again as the countries had redrawn the Hungarian and Romanian borders, settled some Bulgarian claims and Stalin was again convinced that Germany would face a long war in the west with Britain's improvement in its air battle with Germany and the execution of an agreement between the United States and Britain regarding destroyers and bases.\n\nIn the United States, \"The leftists, of course, included the Communist Party, which during the 1939–1941 era of the Nazi-Soviet pact, was slavish in its effort to appease Hitler and sabotage the Allied cause and American preparedness. Their soul mate in Congress was Vito Marcantonio of New York's American Labor Party.\" Despite opposition from left and right, American aid continued to make a short war unlikely.\n\nHowever, in late August, Germany arranged its own occupation of Romania, targeting oil fields. The move raised tensions with the Soviets, who responded that Germany was supposed to have consulted with the Soviet Union under Article III of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact.\n\nAfter Germany in September 1940 entered a Tripartite Pact with Japan and Italy, Ribbentrop wrote to Stalin, inviting Molotov to Berlin for negotiations aimed to create a 'continental bloc' of Germany, Italy, Japan and the USSR that would oppose Britain and the USA. Stalin sent Molotov to Berlin to negotiate the terms for the Soviet Union to join the Axis and potentially enjoy the spoils of the pact. After negotiations during November 1940 on where to extend the USSR's sphere of influence, Hitler broke off talks and continued planning for the eventual attempts to invade the Soviet Union.\n\nIn an effort to demonstrate peaceful intentions toward Germany, on 13 April 1941, the Soviets signed a neutrality pact with Axis power Japan. While Stalin had little faith in Japan's commitment to neutrality, he felt that the pact was important for its political symbolism, to reinforce a public affection for Germany. Stalin felt that there was a growing split in German circles about whether Germany should initiate a war with the Soviet Union. Stalin did not know that Hitler had been secretly discussing an invasion of the Soviet Union since summer 1940, and that Hitler had ordered his military in late 1940 to prepare for war in the east regardless of the parties' talks of a potential Soviet entry as a fourth Axis Power.\n\nNazi Germany unilaterally terminated the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact at 03:15 on 22 June 1941 by launching a massive attack on the Soviet positions in eastern Poland which marked the beginning of the invasion of the Soviet Union known as Operation Barbarossa. Stalin had ignored several warnings that Germany was likely to invade, and ordered no 'full-scale' mobilization of forces although the mobilization was ongoing. After the launch of the invasion, the territories gained by the Soviet Union as a result of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact were lost in a matter of weeks. Within six months, the Soviet military had suffered 4.3 million casualties, and three more million had been captured. The lucrative export of Soviet raw materials to Nazi Germany over the course of the Nazi–Soviet economic relations (1934–41) continued uninterrupted until the outbreak of hostilities. The Soviet exports in several key areas enabled Germany to maintain its stocks of rubber and grain from the first day of the invasion until October 1941.\n\nThe German original of the secret protocols was presumably destroyed in the bombing of Germany, but in late 1943, Ribbentrop had ordered that the most secret records of the German Foreign Office from 1933 on, amounting to some 9,800 pages, be microfilmed. When the various departments of the Foreign Office in Berlin were evacuated to Thuringia at the end of the war, Karl von Loesch, a civil servant who had worked for the chief interpreter Paul Otto Schmidt, was entrusted with these microfilm copies. He eventually received orders to destroy the secret documents but decided to bury the metal container with the microfilms as a personal insurance for his future well-being. In May 1945, von Loesch approached the British Lt. Col. Robert C. Thomson with the request to transmit a personal letter to Duncan Sandys, Churchill's son-in-law. In the letter, von Loesch revealed that he had knowledge of the documents' whereabouts but expected preferential treatment in return. Colonel Thomson and his American counterpart Ralph Collins agreed to transfer von Loesch to Marburg in the American zone if he would produce the microfilms. The microfilms contained a copy of the Non-Aggression Treaty as well as the Secret Protocol. Both documents were discovered as part of the microfilmed records in August 1945 by the State Department employee Wendell B. Blancke, head of a special unit called \"Exploitation German Archives\" (EGA).\n\nThe treaty was published in the United States for the first time by the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" on May 22, 1946, in Britain by the \"Manchester Guardian\". It was also part of an official State Department publication, \"Nazi–Soviet Relations 1939–1941\", edited by Raymond J. Sontag and James S. Beddie in January 1948. The decision to publish the key documents on German–Soviet relations, including the treaty and protocol, had been taken already in spring 1947. Sontag and Beddie prepared the collection throughout the summer of 1947. In November 1947, President Truman personally approved the publication but it was held back in view of the Foreign Ministers Conference in London scheduled for December. Since negotiations at that conference did not prove constructive from an American point of view, the document edition was sent to press. The documents made headlines worldwide. State Department officials counted it as a success: \"The Soviet Government was caught flat-footed in what was the first effective blow from our side in a clear-cut propaganda war.\"\n\nDespite publication of the recovered copy in western media, for decades, it was the official policy of the Soviet Union to deny the existence of the secret protocol. The secret protocol's existence was officially denied until 1989. Vyacheslav Molotov, one of the signatories, went to his grave categorically rejecting its existence. The French Communist Party did not acknowledge the existence of the secret protocol until 1968, as the party de-Stalinized.\n\nOn 23 August 1986, tens of thousands of demonstrators in 21 western cities including New York, London, Stockholm, Toronto, Seattle, and Perth participated in Black Ribbon Day Rallies to draw attention to the secret protocols.\n\nIn response to the publication of the secret protocols and other secret German–Soviet relations documents in the State Department edition \"Nazi–Soviet Relations\" (1948), Stalin published \"Falsifiers of History\", which included the claim that, during the Pact's operation, Stalin rejected Hitler's claim to share in a division of the world, without mentioning the Soviet offer to join the Axis. That version persisted, without exception, in historical studies, official accounts, memoirs and textbooks published in the Soviet Union until the Soviet Union's dissolution.\n\nThe book also claimed that the Munich agreement was a \"secret agreement\" between Germany and \"the west\" and a \"highly important phase in their policy aimed at goading the Hitlerite aggressors against the Soviet Union.\"\n\nFor decades, it was the official policy of the Soviet Union to deny the existence of the secret protocol to the Soviet–German Pact. At the behest of Mikhail Gorbachev, Alexander Nikolaevich Yakovlev headed a commission investigating the existence of such a protocol. In December 1989, the commission concluded that the protocol had existed and revealed its findings to the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union. As a result, the Congress passed the declaration confirming the existence of the secret protocols, condemning and denouncing them. Both successor-states of the pact parties have declared the secret protocols to be invalid from the moment they were signed. The Federal Republic of Germany declared this on September 1, 1989 and the Soviet Union did the same on December 24, 1989, following an examination of the microfilmed copy of the German originals.\n\nThe Soviet copy of the original document was declassified in 1992 and published in a scientific journal in early 1993.\n\nIn August 2009, in an article written for the Polish newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza, Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin condemned the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact as \"immoral.\"\n\nIn spite of such statements the present Russian government and media have to some extent moved back to the Soviet position, again using the term \"falsifiers of history\". They assert that the invasions of Poland were unconnected to the pact, that the Nazi–Soviet pact was concluded only after fruitless negotiations with Britain and France, and that, by the Munich agreement, Britain and France were at least as culpable for the outbreak of war as the USSR.\n\nThe new Russian nationalists and revisionists including Russian negationist Alexander Dyukov and Nataliya Narotchnitskaya, whose book carried an approving foreword by the Russian foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, described the pact as a necessary measure because of the British and French failure to enter into an anti-fascist pact.\n\nSome scholars believe that, from the very beginning of the Tripartite negotiations between the Soviet Union, Great Britain and France, it was clear that the Soviet position required the other parties to agree to a Soviet occupation of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, as well as for Finland to be included in the Soviet sphere of influence.\n\nRegarding the timing of German rapprochement, many historians agree that the dismissal of Maxim Litvinov, whose Jewish ethnicity was viewed unfavorably by Nazi Germany, removed an obstacle to negotiations with Germany. Stalin immediately directed Molotov to \"purge the ministry of Jews.\" Given Litvinov's prior attempts to create an anti-fascist coalition, association with the doctrine of collective security with France and Britain, and pro-Western orientation by the standards of the Kremlin, his dismissal indicated the existence of a Soviet option of rapprochement with Germany. Likewise, Molotov's appointment served as a signal to Germany that the USSR was open to offers. The dismissal also signaled to France and Britain the existence of a potential negotiation option with Germany. One British official wrote that Litvinov's termination also meant the loss of an admirable technician or shock-absorber, while Molotov's \"modus operandi\" was \"more truly Bolshevik than diplomatic or cosmopolitan.\" Carr argued that the Soviet Union's replacement of Foreign Minister Litvinov with Molotov on May 3, 1939 indicated not an irrevocable shift towards alignment with Germany, but rather was Stalin's way of engaging in hard bargaining with the British and the French by appointing a proverbial hard man, namely Molotov, to the Foreign Commissariat. Historian Albert Resis stated that the Litvinov dismissal gave the Soviets freedom to pursue faster-paced German negotiations, but that they did not abandon British–French talks. Derek Watson argued that Molotov could get the best deal with Britain and France because he was not encumbered with the baggage of collective security and could negotiate with Germany. Geoffrey Roberts argued that Litvinov's dismissal helped the Soviets with British–French talks, because Litvinov doubted or maybe even opposed such discussions.\n\nEdward Hallett Carr, a frequent defender of Soviet policy, stated: \"In return for 'non-intervention' Stalin secured a breathing space of immunity from German attack.\" According to Carr, the \"bastion\" created by means of the Pact, \"was and could only be, a line of defense against potential German attack.\" According to Carr, an important advantage was that \"if Soviet Russia had eventually to fight Hitler, the Western Powers would already be involved.\" However, during the last decades, this view has been disputed. Historian Werner Maser stated that \"the claim that the Soviet Union was at the time threatened by Hitler, as Stalin supposed ... is a legend, to whose creators Stalin himself belonged. In Maser's view, \"neither Germany nor Japan were in a situation [of] invading the USSR even with the least perspective of success,\" and this could not have been unknown to Stalin. Carr further stated that, for a long time, the primary motive of Stalin's sudden change of course was assumed to be the fear of German aggressive intentions.\n\nIn his book \"Icebreaker\" the popular writer Viktor Suvorov, claim that Stalin's primary motive for signing the Soviet–German non-aggression treaty was his calculation that such a pact could result in a conflict between the capitalist countries of Western Europe. This idea is supported by Albert L. Weeks. Claims by Suvorov that Stalin planned to invade Germany in 1941 are debated by historians with, for example, David Glantz opposing such claims, while Mikhail Meltyukhov supports them. The authors of \"The Black Book of Communism\" consider the pact a crime against peace and a \"conspiracy to conduct war of aggression.\"\n\nSoviet sources have claimed that soon after the pact was signed, both Britain and the US showed understanding that the buffer zone was necessary to keep Hitler from advancing for some time, accepting the ostensible strategic reasoning; however, soon after World War II ended, those countries changed their view. Many Polish newspapers published numerous articles claiming that Russia must apologize to Poland for the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact.\n\nTwo weeks after Soviet armies had entered the Baltic states, Berlin requested Finland to permit the transit of German troops, followed five weeks thereafter by Hitler's issuance of a secret directive \"to take up the Russian problem, to think about war preparations,\" a war whose objective would include establishment of a Baltic confederation.\n\nIn 2009, the European Parliament proclaimed 23 August, the anniversary of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, as a European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism, to be commemorated with dignity and impartiality.\n\nIn connection with the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe parliamentary resolution condemned both communism and fascism for starting World War II and called for a day of remembrance for victims of both Stalinism and Nazism on 23 August. In response to the resolution, the Russian lawmakers threatened the OSCE with \"harsh consequences\".\n\nDuring the re-ignition of Cold War tensions in 1982, the U.S. Congress during the Reagan Administration established the Baltic Freedom Day to be remembered every June 14 in the United States.\n\nIn Animal Farm, the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact is depicted by Napoleon the pig having a card game with humans and disagreeing about an ace of spades being played.\n\n"}
{"id": "522489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=522489", "title": "Morrison v. Olson", "text": "Morrison v. Olson\n\nMorrison v. Olson, 487 U.S. 654 (1988), is a United States federal court case in which the Supreme Court of the United States decided that the Independent Counsel Act was constitutional.\n\nThe case involved subpoenas from two subcommittees of the United States House of Representatives that directed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to produce documents relating to the efforts of the EPA and the Land and Natural Resources Division of the Justice Department to enforce the Superfund law. Theodore Olson was the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel. President Ronald Reagan ordered the Administrator of the EPA to withhold the documents on the grounds that they contained \"enforcement sensitive information.\" This led to an investigation by the House Judiciary Committee that later produced a report suggesting Olson had given false and misleading testimony before a House subcommittee during the investigation.\n\nThe Chairman of the Judiciary Committee forwarded a copy of the report to the Attorney General with a request that he seek the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate the allegations against Olson and two others. Alexia Morrison was named independent counsel and given jurisdiction to investigate whether Olson had violated federal law. Olson moved to quash the subpoenas and sued Morrison in her official capacity.\n\nOlson argued that the Office of the Independent Counsel took executive powers away from the office of the President of the United States and created a hybrid \"fourth branch\" of government that was ultimately answerable to no one. He argued that the broad powers of an independent counsel could be easily abused or corrupted by partisanship. Morrison in turn argued that her position was necessary in order to prevent abuses by the executive branch, which historically operated in a closed environment.\n\nThe Court held that the independent counsel provision of the Ethics in Government Act did not violate the principle of separation of powers because it did not increase the power of one branch at the expense of another. Instead, even though the President cannot directly fire an Independent Counsel, the person holding that office was still an officer of the Executive branch and not under the control of either the U.S. Congress or the courts.\n\nJustice Scalia, the lone dissenter, said that the law should be struck down because (1) criminal prosecution is an exercise of \"purely executive power\" and (2) the law deprived the president of \"exclusive control\" of that power.\n\nIn his opinion, Scalia also predicted how the law might be abused in practice, writing, \"I fear the Court has permanently encumbered the Republic with an institution that will do it great harm.\"\n\nConservatives like Senator Bob Dole began to share his concern when in 1992, four days before the US presidential election, Lawrence Walsh announced the re-indictment of former defense secretary Caspar Weinberger on charges related to the Iran–Contra affair. Critics also sensed partisan politics when Walsh's office leaked a note suggesting President Bush had lied about his connections to the affair.\n\nConcerns were also raised, in line with Scalia's dissent, when independent counsel Kenneth Starr spent $40 million and more than four years investigating President Clinton's land deals and extramarital affairs. Many believed the investigation was partisan.\n\nCongress let the Independent Counsel Act expire in 1999.\n\n\"The New York Times\" wrote, \"[i]n an introduction he gave shortly after the case was decided, (then) Judge Alito said the decision hit the separation of powers doctrine 'about as hard as heavy-weight champ Mike Tyson usually hits his opponents.'\"\n\nIn February 2006, lawyers for I. Lewis \"Scooter\" Libby, Vice President Dick Cheney's former top aide, argued that Special Counsel Patrick J. Fitzgerald lacked the legal authority to bring charges against him. In April 2006, a court rejected Libby's argument, citing the precedent in \"Morrison\".\n\nIn a 2013 interview with \"New York\" magazine, Justice Scalia described \"Morrison v. Olson\" as the most wrenching case in which he had participated:\n\nProbably the most wrenching was \"Morrison v. Olson\", which involved the independent counsel. To take away the power to prosecute from the president and give it to somebody who’s not under his control is a terrible erosion of presidential power. And it was wrenching not only because it came out wrong—I was the sole dissenter—but because the opinion was written by Rehnquist, who had been head of the Office of Legal Counsel, before me, and who I thought would realize the importance of that power of the president to prosecute. And he not only wrote the opinion; he wrote it in a manner that was more extreme than I think Bill Brennan would have written it. That was wrenching.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28836640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28836640", "title": "NZLSA Bell Gully Mooting Competition", "text": "NZLSA Bell Gully Mooting Competition\n\nBell Gully Mooting is the longest-running New Zealand Law Students' Association moot court competition, which is sponsored by Bell Gully. \n\nThe regional rounds of the mooting competition are slightly different at each university, with various levels of faculty involvement depending on the law school. Most law schools have a long-standing trophy for the winners of their individual competition, such as the Auckland University Stout Shield (named after Sir Robert Stout) and Victoria University of Wellington's Sir Richard Wild Cup. \n\nThe national finals of the mooting competition are held at the NZLSA national conference each year. The winning University from the national finals represents New Zealand at the Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition. \n\n"}
{"id": "218792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218792", "title": "Obligation", "text": "Obligation\n\nAn obligation is a course of action that someone is required to take, whether legal or moral. There are also obligations in other normative contexts, such as obligations of etiquette, social obligations, religious and possibly in terms of politics, where obligations are requirements which must be fulfilled. These are generally legal obligations, which can incur a penalty for non-fulfilment, although certain people are obliged to carry out certain actions for other reasons as well, whether as a tradition or for social reasons.\n\nObligations vary from person to person: for example, a person holding a political office will generally have far more obligations than an average adult citizen, who themselves will have more obligations than a child. Obligations are generally granted in return for an increase in an individual's rights or power. For example, obligations for health and safety in a workplace from employer to employee maybe to ensure the fire exit is not blocked or ensure that the plugs are put in firmly.\n\nThe word \"obligation\" can also designate a written obligation, or such things as bank notes, coins, checks, bonds, stamps, or securities.\n\nThe term obligate can also be used in a biological context, in reference to species which must occupy a certain niche or behave in a certain way in order to survive. In biology, the opposite of obligate is facultative, meaning that a species is able to behave in a certain way and may do so under certain circumstances, but that it can also survive without having to behave this way. For example, species of salamanders in the family Proteidae are obligate paedomorphs, whereas species belonging to the Ambystomatidae are facultative paedomorphs.\n\nIn the Catholic Church, Holy Days of Obligation or Holidays of Obligation, less commonly called Feasts of Precept, are the days on which, as canon 1247 of the Code of Canon Law states, the faithful are obliged to participate in the Mass.\n\n"}
{"id": "37734617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37734617", "title": "Open Hardware and Design Alliance", "text": "Open Hardware and Design Alliance\n\nThe Open Hardware and Design Alliance (OHANDA) aims at encouraging the sharing of open hardware and designs. The core of the project is a free online service where manufacturers of Open hardware and designs can register their products with a common label. This label maps the four freedoms of Free Software to physical devices and their documentation. It is similar to a non-registered trademark for hardware and can be compared to other certificates such as U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) or CE mark. OHANDA thus has the role of a self-organized registration authority.\n\nThe Open Hardware and Design Alliance has rewritten the four freedoms of free software as follows to match them to hardware resp. hardware documentation:\n\nThe idea to create a label that makes open hardware and designs recognizable is because copyright and copyleft are hard to realize in the context of physical devices. Instead of going through the lengthy and expensive process of patenting hardware to make it open, hardware developers and designers can put their products under a public domain license by registering them on the OHANDA website. They can license their work under their own names and keep the devices' reuse open.\n\nThe procedure is the following: A hardware designer or manufacturer creates an account on the OHANDA website to get a unique producer ID. This account can either be for a person or for an organization. The terms and conditions he accepts to use the label imply that she grants the Four Freedoms to the users. The documentation of the product must be published under a \"copyleft\" or public domain license. Next, the manufacturer registers the product or design. A unique product ID will be issued. This ID is also referred to as the \"OKEY\". Now the manufacturer or designer can print or engrave the OHANDA label and the OKEY onto the device. This way, the device always carries the link to the open documentation and to all past contributors. Via the OHANDA website, users can trace back the artefact. At the same time, the label makes the openness of the product visible. Everyone is free to change the device and to share the new design with a new product ID on the website. The development can be seen by following the associations online.\n\nThe idea of creating a label for open source hardware came up at the GOSH! Summit (Grounding Open Source Hardware) at Banff Centre in Banff, Alberta in July 2009. Since then, the active community members developed the project website where OHANDA-labeled hardware can be registered. OHANDA launched a sticker campaign: The stickers show a crossed out closed box, symbolizing closed \"black boxes\". The stickers are meant to be put on all sorts of devices to make visible how little open source devices exist.\n\nIn 2011, OHANDA community members met at the Piksel11 festival in Bergen/Norway. Since then, they have been using the term \"reables\" as a replacement for \"Free/Libre Open Source Hardware\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12239176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12239176", "title": "Parish constable", "text": "Parish constable\n\nA parish constable, also known as a petty constable, was a law enforcement officer, usually unpaid and part-time, serving a parish. The position evolved from the ancient \"chief pledge\" of a \"tithing\", and takes its name from the office of \"constable\", with which it was originally unconnected.\n\nIt is distinct from the more senior position of the hundred-constable, also known as the \"High Constable\" (e.g. \"the High Constable of Holborn\", who was one of the hundred-constables for Ossulstone; Ossulstone's hundred court was located at Red Lion Square, in Holborn).\n\nIn London (apart from the City of London), the position was superseded by the introduction of the Metropolitan Police Service in 1829, which created a full-time professional force. Elsewhere, professional county police forces took over, after the County Police Act 1839 was passed.\n\nThe office of parish constable originated from the \"tithing\", a small unit of local administration. Each tithing was obliged, by frankpledge, to be responsible for the actions of its members. The heads of each household would often select one of their number to take charge of the tithing - the \"chief pledge\"; in Kent, Sussex, and parts of Surrey, this head man was instead known as a \"headborough\".\n\nA judicial process - \"view of frankpledge\" - obliged each tithing to attend the shire court at regular intervals, and hand over any person in their tithing who the court had summoned; if they did not, and could not swear on oath that they were not involved in helping that person evade justice, the remaining people in the tithing had to pay the damages incurred by the actions of that person. Since this created an incentive for each tithing to enforce standards of behaviour among its own members, the \"chief pledge\" of each tithing was effectively obliged to police behaviour in the tithing.\n\nThe term \"constable\" was originally unconnected with the \"chief pledge\", and referred to officers in charge of the cavalry; it originates from the Latin \"comes stabuli\", meaning \"count of the stable\". By extension, \"constable\" referred to the officer in command of the army – one of the Great Officers of State. In times of relative peace, this officer was sometimes given a role in keeping order, on account of his command of military resources. Additional \"constables\" were sometimes appointed, if order needed to be kept in multiple places, or the main constable was busy in his main role.\n\nThe term \"constable\" consequently began to have a more general meaning related to enforcing order; in 1285 King Edward I of England \"constituted two constables in every hundred to prevent defaults in towns and highways\". In England and Scotland, the officer in command of the army then came to be called the Lord High Constable, to avoid ambiguity over his role. As the \"chief pledge\" were also involved in policing people's behaviour, though at a much smaller scale, and with much-lowered resources, they gradually came to be referred to as \"petty constables\".\n\nTithings were originally connected with the hundred, but the courts baron introduced by the feudal system, attracted more attention, and the significance of the hundreds decreased. To shift the balance of power away from feudal lords again, magistrates were introduced, and the kings gradually transferred various functions to them, including from the shire courts. In 1381, magistrates acquired responsibility for the remains of \"view of frankpledge\", thereby gaining oversight of the activity of \"petty constables\".\n\nThe feudal system had gradually been weakened over the Middle Ages, and by the time of the Reformation, the focus of local administration had shifted away from manors and towards civil parishes. Tithings consequently came to be seen as a division of the parish, and so \"petty constables\" became seen as \"parish\" constables; there are records of \"parish\" constables by the 17th century in the county records of Buckinghamshire.\n\nParish constables derived most of their powers from their local parish. Traditionally, they were elected by the parishioners (just as the tithing had chosen their \"chief pledge\" forbears), but from 1617 onwards were typically appointed by the magistrates in each county. It was, however, only in 1842 that the power to appoint constables was formally stripped from manorial courts, and transferred to civil parishes. Although the constables had had to be sworn into their role by the magistrates, magistrates had never formally had the power to actually choose them.\n\nLike many official positions at the time, the position was obligatory, and unpaid, although the chosen constable had the right to employ someone to perform the role on their behalf. It was often a resented burden, as it involved a wide variety of extremely time consuming tasks.\n\nIn accordance with the ancient obligation for tithings to present indicted individuals to the courts, each civil parish typically had a small location in which the constable could confine criminals. The constable was responsible not only for confining such people, but also for delivering them to the courts. Similarly, constables were also expected to try and prevent crime within their parish; they were among the people with authority to \"read the Riot Act\", and were expected to do so if a riotous assembly arose in their parish.\n\nVagabonds and beggars could be a drain on parish resources, under the Elizabethan Poor Law. They could also be a potential source of crime. Constables were expected to implement the Vagabonds and Beggars Act 1494, under which vagabonds and beggars were to be set in the stocks for three days, and then whipped until they leave the parish. The constable also had general responsibility for the local stocks, as well as for the pillory, and was expected to punish poachers, drunks, hedge-damagers, prostitutes, church-avoiders, and fathers of bastards.\n\nJust as the tithing was a general administrative unit, and not exclusively limited to policing matters, so the parish constable had functions that would not be recognised as police matters, unlike hundred-constables (which had derived from the military \"constable\").\n\nParish constables were expected to monitor trading standards and pubs, catch rats, restrain loose animals, light signal beacons, provide local lodging and transport for the military, perform building control, attend inquests, and collect the parish rates. They were also responsible for collecting national taxes, within their area.\n\nThe historian Stephen Inwood describes the 4,000 parish constables existing in the early 19th century as \"of variable quality and commitment\"; some London parishes, such as Kensington, Fulham and Deptford (with over 55,000 inhabitants between them at the time of the 1821 census) had no policing at all, and the quality of policing was generally considered inadequate by this period.\n\nThe Metropolitan Police Act 1829 and County Police Act 1839 gradually led to the end of most unprofessional constabulary. The Metropolitan Police Act established a professional and trained police force, in place of the parish constables, within the bounds of London; the County Police Act allowed counties to do likewise. Each new force was to be headed by a chief constable (replacing the hundred-constables) who would be appointed by the county magistrates. The wide administrative functions of parish constables were taken over by various recently established local boards (which eventually were re-organised to become local councils).\n\nThe voluntary nature of the County Police Act meant that the change proceeded in a piecemeal fashion. The first county to establish a professional force was Wiltshire, which appointed its first chief constable on 28 November 1839; Essex followed a few months later, appointing its first Chief Constable on 11 February 1840.\n\nThe City of London had been exempted from the Metropolitan Police Act, and had to use a private act of parliament to establish its own professional force as the City of London Police. \n\nIn Guernsey and Jersey, parish constables still exist as elected parish officers.\n"}
{"id": "1673251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1673251", "title": "Pierson v. Post", "text": "Pierson v. Post\n\nPierson v. Post is an early American legal case from the State of New York that later became a foundational case in the field of property law. The case involved an incident that took place in 1805 at an uninhabited beach near Southampton, New York, on the southeastern coast of Long Island. Lodowick Post, a local resident, was out in a hunting party when his hunting dogs caught the scent of a fox and began pursuing it. As they drew near the fox, Jesse Pierson, another local resident, saw the foxthough he denied seeing Post and his partyand promptly killed it and carried it off for himself. Post filed a lawsuit against Pierson claiming that because had already begun pursuing the fox, the property of the fox's pelt and carcass were rightfully his, not Pierson's. The local justice ruled in favor of Post. Pierson appealed the ruling to the Supreme Court of New York, who reversed the justice's decision and ruled in favor of Pierson.\n\n\"Pierson v. Post\" is generally considered the most famous property law case in American legal history. Although it only involved a dispute over which of two men deserved ownership of a fox, adjudicating the dispute required determining at what point a wild animal (traditionally known as an animal \"ferae naturae\") becomes \"property\". The judges chose not to follow common law precedent on wild animal capture, and since there were no prominent American precedents on the point, the justices in the case were forced to synthesize reasoning from a variety of well-known historical legal treatises—ranging from the \"Institutes of Justinian\" in the 5th century to the writings of Henry de Bracton in the 13th century and Samuel von Pufendorf in the 17th century—into a coherent principle on how property can be first possessed by a human being. Determining the rightful ownership of the fox involved the essence of the human notion of \"property\" itself and how it is created, and for this reason \"Pierson v. Post\" is included in nearly all Anglo-American property casebooks.\n\nLodowick Post, a fox hunter, was chasing a fox through a vacant lot on December 10, 1802, when Pierson came across the fox and, knowing it was being chased by another, killed the fox and took it away. Post sued Pierson on an action for trespass on the case for damages against his possession of the fox. Post argued that he had ownership of the fox as giving chase to an animal in the course of hunting it was sufficient to establish possession. The trial court found in favor of Post.\n\nOn appeal after the trial, the issue put to the Supreme Court of Judicature of New York was whether one could obtain property rights to a wild animal (Ferae naturae), in this case the fox, by pursuit. The Supreme Court case was heard by Chief Justice James Kent, then one of the nation's preeminent jurists, and associate justices Daniel Tompkins (who would later become Vice President of the United States) and Henry Brockholst Livingston (who would go on to serve as a Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court).\n\nJustice Tomkins wrote the majority opinion. The Court cited ancient precedent in deciding the case:\n\nIf we have recourse to the ancient writers upon general principles of law, the judgment below is obviously erroneous. Justinian's Institutes, and Fleta, adopt the principle, that pursuit alone vests no property or right in the huntsman; and that even pursuit, accompanied with wounding, is equally ineffectual for that purpose, unless the animal be actually taken. The same principle is recognized by Bracton.\n\nPuffendorf defines occupancy of beasts \"feræ naturæ\", to be the actual corporeal possession of them, and Bynkershoeck is cited as coinciding in this definition. It is indeed with hesitation that Puffendorf affirms that a wild beast mortally wounded, or greatly maimed, cannot be fairly intercepted by another, whilst the pursuit of the person inflicting the wound continues. The foregoing authorities are decisive to show that mere pursuit gave Post no legal right to the fox, but that he became the property of Pierson, who intercepted and killed him.[Citations omitted]\n\nThe court reasoned that given the common law requirement to have control over one's possessions, merely giving chase was not sufficient. Something more was needed, otherwise law would create a slippery slope.\n\nIf the first seeing, starting, or pursuing such animals, without having so wounded, circumvented or ensnared the animal, so as to deprive them of their natural liberty, and subject them to the control of their pursuer, should afford the basis of actions against others for intercepting and killing them, it would prove a fertile course of quarrels and litigation.\n\nThe majority opinion found that though it may have been rude for Pierson to have killed the fox, there was no reason to object as only the person to mortally wound or seize the animal can acquire possession of it.\n\nAmong the authorities cited by the court in its opinion were the works of William Blackstone, Fleta, Jean Barbeyrac, Samuel von Pufendorf, Hugo Grotius, and Justinian I.\n\nJustice Livingston dissented. Livingston was unsatisfied with the authorities cited in the majority opinion. Instead he argued that pursuit should be considered sufficient, as it serves a useful purpose of encouraging hunters to rid the countryside of that \"wild and noxious beast\" known as the fox. Livingston further acknowledged that possession can be seen in relative terms where the continued chase may merely be a formality of the pre-existing control already exerted by the hunter.\n\nLivingston was also of the view that the question in Pierson \"should have been submitted to the arbitration of sportsmen\". In such an event, due to local custom, Post likely would have been victorious. To put it a different way, Livingston believed that if you were to ask local hunters how they felt about pursuit with respect to possession, they would have largely \"regarded hot pursuit as giving rights to take an unimpeded first possession\".\n\nThe trial court was reversed so Pierson did not have to pay any damages. As one commenter wrote:\nJesse Pierson, son of Capt. David, coming from Amagansett, saw a fox run and hide down an unused well near Peters Pond and killed and took the fox. Lodowick Post and a company with him were in pursuit and chasing the fox and saw Jesse with it and claimed it as theirs, while Jesse persisted in his claim. Capt. Pierson said his son Jesse should have the fox and Capt. Post said the same of his son Lodowick and hence the law suit contested and appealed to the highest court in the State which decided that Post had not got the possession of the fox when Pierson killed it and that he had no property in it as against Pierson until he had reduced it into his own possession. This became \nthe leading case often cited because it established; and I think, for the first time, by the court of last resort in the State, that to give an individual right in wild animals, the claimant must capture them. To \nthe public the decision was worth its cost. To the parties who each expended over a thousand pounds, the fox cost very dear.\n\n-James T. Adams, Memorials of Old Bridgehampton 166 (1916, 1962)\nOn the other hand, Bethany R. Berger notes in \"It's Not About the Fox: The Untold Story of \"Pierson v. Post\"\" that the dispute may have really been about use of the land on which the fox was caught, part of the commons in which Pierson's family, like other descendants of the original settlers of Bridgehampton, had special rights.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1030477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1030477", "title": "Pirate radio in the Middle East", "text": "Pirate radio in the Middle East\n\nAll of the offshore stations broadcasting to Israel were operating from within Israeli territorial waters under a strange arrangement that attempted to prevent intrusion by terrorists on the one hand, while turning a blind eye to the illegality of the offshore broadcasting operations taking place on board the anchored ships.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA number of pirate radio stations operated within Israel on the FM band in the mid 1990s. These included:\n\nIn Tel Aviv area\n\nOther regions\n"}
{"id": "4076184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4076184", "title": "Possession and acquisition licence", "text": "Possession and acquisition licence\n\nA possession and acquisition licence (PAL) is a firearms licence in Canadian law. \n\nAll of the following require a licence in Canada\n\nA non-resident firearms declaration that has been confirmed by a customs officer is deemed to be a temporary licence for up to 60 days. A non-resident firearms declaration is a specific form that should be reviewed in advance of travel, not an oral statement at the border.\n\nThe PAL is the primary licence for possession of a firearm and acquisition of ammunition, and it is both required and the only permissible document for a person to acquire or permanently import a firearm. Applicants must be 18 years of age or more. There is no requirement of citizenship or residency (although different forms, and slightly different requirements apply).\n\nThere is a separate licensing system to transport restricted firearms (authorization to transport). In other words, while a PAL (with appropriate endorsements) may permit a person to purchase a restricted firearm, it does not in itself permit that person to transport it from the store to their home. (This particular case can become an endorsement on a PAL.) For non-restricted firearms separate authorization to transport is not required.\n\nOther firearm licences for individuals include:\n\nNOTE: While issued licences read either \"Possession • Acquisition\" or \"Possession Only\", the Firearms Act and regulations refer to either \"possession and acquisition licence\" or \"possession licence\", without the word \"only\".\n\nAll licensing of firearms in Canada is managed by the RCMP's Canadian Firearms Program (CFP). In the Canadian system, there are three classes of firearms and firearm licences: non-restricted, restricted and prohibited. See below for complete details on prohibited, restricted and non-restricted firearms.\n\nA possession and acquisition licence is a licence that allows individuals in Canada to possess and acquire firearms as well as ammunition. Licences are typically valid for five years and must be renewed prior to expiry to maintain all classes. If an individual possessing a PAL is convicted of certain offences, a PAL can be revoked. If an individual does not renew their PAL prior to its expiration date or if they have their PAL revoked, they must legally dispose of any firearms in their possession. A licence for prohibited firearms can be issued to qualifying businesses, and very rarely to individuals (firearms they own, as the gun laws changed over time.) Previous convictions for serious violent, drug or weapons offences almost invariably result in the denial of the application.\n\nA PAL is generally obtained in the following three steps:\n\nLicences are typically valid for five years and must be renewed prior to expiry to maintain all classes. Once licensed, an individual can apply for a firearm transfer; and an authorization to transport (ATT) for restricted firearms.\n\nLike licences, firearms are classified into prohibited, restricted and non-restricted categories, as defined by Part III of \"Criminal Code (R.S., 1985, c. C-46)\"\n\nProhibited firearms include:\n\nRestricted firearms are:\n\nNon-restricted firearms are:\n\nPALs were introduced in Canada in 1995 as part of Bill C-68 as a replacement for the FAC (firearms acquisition certificate) system. Whereas the FAC was only required to acquire a firearm, a PAL is required to both acquire and possess firearms and to acquire ammunition. A PAL for non-restricted firearms allows its holders to acquire and possess any non-restricted firearm, while a PAL for restricted firearms (which also covers prohibited firearms to those eligible) allows the holder to acquire and possess restricted firearms.\n\nWhen first implemented, the PAL also allowed the holder to acquire a cross-bow, although no licence was required to possess one. There is no longer a licensing requirement for purchasing cross-bows.\n\nThe transportation regulations are broken down into two divisions: those for non-restricted firearms and those for restricted or prohibited firearms. These rules are laid out in the Storage, Display, Transportation and Handling of Firearms by Individuals Regulations.\nA non restricted firearm may be transported so long as it is unloaded. Such a firearm does not need to be encased or trigger locked.\n\nA restricted firearm must be disabled by use of a trigger, cable, or other locking device and locked in an opaque case.\nAn unattended non-restricted firearm left in a vehicle must be locked in the trunk or other compartment, if one is available. In order to transport restricted or prohibited firearms, an individual must obtain an authorization to transport. An ATT is generally approved only for individuals to transport a restricted or prohibited firearm to a shooting range for target practice, gun show for sale, to a gunsmith or gun shop or for a competition (e.g.: IPSC).\n\nAn authorization to carry (ATC) allows a person to carry a restricted firearm or prohibited handgun concealed (if specified as a condition of carry) and loaded. An ATC for open carry is usually only issued to employees of armoured car companies or for other limited employment reasons. In very rare situations, an ATC may be issued for protection of life, which would allow the holder to have a loaded handgun with them, or at home, without violating safe storage rules that usually require an unloaded firearm to be trigger locked and secured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9175348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9175348", "title": "Regulation NMS", "text": "Regulation NMS\n\nRegulation National Market System (or Reg NMS) is a US financial regulation promulgated and described by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as \"a series of initiatives designed to modernize and strengthen the National Market System for equity securities.\" The Reg NMS is intended to assure that investors receive the best price executions for their orders by encouraging competition in the marketplace. However, the impact of the rule has been been blamed by some for unintended negative consequences such as the rise of high-frequency trading.\n\nEstablished in 2005, its aim was to foster both \"competition among individual markets and competition among individual orders\" in order to promote efficient and fair price formation across securities markets.\n\nIn 1972, before the SEC began its pursuit of a national market system, the market for securities was quite fragmented. The same stock sometimes traded at different prices at different trading venues, and the NYSE ticker tape did not report transactions of NYSE-listed stocks that took place on regional exchanges or on other over-the-counter securities markets. This fragmentation made it difficult for traders to comparison shop. In 1975, Congress passed the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975, authorizing the SEC to facilitate a national market system.\n\nIn 2005, the rules promoting the national market system were consolidated into REG NMS. Some of the more notable rules include:\n\nReg NMS has been described as a shift away from the SEC's historical role of defining and then enforcing general duties and obligations of market participants. Instead, Reg NMS dictates the specifics of how the market should execute trades. This \"micromanagement\" of complicated market mechanics has been blamed for unintended consequences, including the rise of high-frequency trading.\n\nWithin Reg NMS, a section called the order protection rule has further been controversial because it requires traders to transact on a trading venue at the lowest price rather than on a venue offering the quickest execution or the most reliability, which can result in a worse overall price for institutional orders after execution. Additionally, the order protection rule has been blamed for exacerbating market fragmentation, resulting in rising technology and exchange costs for market makers. Thus, some have described it as an improper government intervention into private business affairs. Defenders of the rule argue that it really just requires what brokers should be doing if they are acting in their customer's best interests. Still others have argued that the rule is too lax because it only protects the quotes at the top of the book. For example, if the best two quotes in one market are superior to the best quote in another market, a portion of an incoming market order may still trade at the inferior market at the inferior price even though the second best quote on the superior market is still available. If more than just the top of the book (the best quote) were protected by the order rule, the market order would have transacted at a superior price and the limit order offering the superior price would have transacted more quickly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25057875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25057875", "title": "Rotterdam Rules", "text": "Rotterdam Rules\n\nThe \"Rotterdam Rules\" (formally, the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Carriage of Goods Wholly or Partly by Sea) is a treaty proposing new international rules to revise the legal framework for maritime affreightment and carriage of goods by sea. The Rules primarily address the legal relationship between carriers and cargo-owners. As of October 2015, the Rules are not yet in force as they have been ratified by only three states.\n\nThe aim of the convention is to extend and modernize existing international rules and achieve uniformity of International trade law in the field of maritime carriage, updating or replacing many provisions in the Hague Rules, Hague-Visby Rules and Hamburg Rules. The convention establishes a comprehensive, uniform legal regime governing the rights and obligations of shippers, carriers and consignees under a contract for door-to-door shipments that involve international sea transport.\n\nThe Hague Rules of 1924 were updated in 1968 to become the Hague-Visby Rules, but the changes were modest. The modified convention still covered only \"tackle to tackle\" carriage contracts, with no provision for multimodal transport. The industry-changing phenomenon of containerization was barely acknowledged. The 1978 Hamburg Rules were introduced to provide a framework that was both more modern, and less biased in favour of ship operators. Although the Hamburg Rules were readily adopted by developing countries, the new convention was shunned by richer countries who stuck with Hague and Hague-Visby. It had been expected that a Hague/Hamburg compromise might arise, but instead the vast (96 articles) Rotterdam Rules appeared.\n\nThe final draft of the Rotterdam Rules, which was assembled by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, was adopted by the United Nations on 11 December 2008, and a signing ceremony was held in Rotterdam on 23 September 2009. Signatories included the United States, France, Greece, Denmark, Switzerland and the Netherlands; in all, signatures were obtained from countries said to make up 25 percent of world trade by volume. Signatures were allowed after the ceremony at the U.N. Headquarters in New York City, United States.\n\nThe World Shipping Council is a prominent supporter of the Rotterdam Rules. In 2010, the American Bar Association House of Delegates approved a resolution supporting U.S. ratification of the Rotterdam Rules.\n\nThe following are critical provisions and law changes found in the Rotterdam Rules:\n\nThe Rotterdam Rules will enter into effect a year after 20 countries have ratified that treaty. As of 9 August 2011, there were 24 signatories to the treaty. The most recent country to sign the treaty was Sweden, which signed on 20 July 2011. Spain was the first country to ratify the convention in January 2011. An overview of signatures and ratifications is shown below:\n\nUpon entry into force of the convention for a country, it should denounce the conventions governing the Hague-Visby Rules as well as the Hamburg Rules as the convention does not come into effect without such denouncements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1956458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1956458", "title": "Separate peace", "text": "Separate peace\n\nThe phrase \"separate peace\" refers to a nation's agreement to cease military hostilities with another, even though the former country had previously entered into a military alliance with other states that remain at war with the latter country. For example, at the start of World War I (1914–1918), Russia was a member, with the United Kingdom and France, of the Triple Entente, which went to war with the Central Powers formed by Germany, Austria-Hungary, the Ottoman Empire, and Bulgaria. After the fall of Russian monarch Nicholas II and the rise to power of the Bolsheviks, Russia defaulted on its commitments to the Triple Entente by signing a separate peace with Germany and its allies in 1917. This armistice was followed on 3 March 1918 by the formal signing of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk.\n\nIt is customary in cases of war waged by several allies to conclude agreement or declaration by all belligerents on the same side not to conclude a separate peace with the opposing camp. An example of such an undertaking was included in the alliance treaty concluded between the Papal States, the Duchy of Burgundy and the Republic of Venice, concluded in Rome on Oct. 19, 1463. The parties undertook to launch a crusade against the Turks and to refrain from making peace with the Sultan without the consent of all three parties. Such was the case during the First World War and Second World War.\n\nA declaration to that effect was issued on September 5, 1914 by the British, French and Russian governments, which briefly stated \n\nThe British, French, and Russian Governments mutually engage not to conclude peace separately during the present war. The three Governments agree that when terms of peace come to be discussed, no one of the allies will demand conditions of peace without the previous agreement of each of the other allies.\nThe Japanese government acceded to this declaration on October 19, 1915.\n\nOn November 30, 1915, the same four governments, now joined by the Italian government, issued a similar joint declaration regarding avoiding separate peace.\n\nThe obligation to refrain from separate peace was also made during the Second World War in both camps. The Tripartite Pact between the German, Italian and Japanese governments committed the three to prosecute the war together. On the Allied camp, that obligation was contained in the United Nations Declaration of January 1, 1942.\n\nA similar obligation arose within the Arab League in the context of the Arab-Israeli conflict not to reach any separate peace treaty with the Israeli government, in order to assure that a collective arrangement would take into consideration the interests of all Arab states plus the Palestinians. The Egyptian government under Anwar Sadat acted in contrast to that rule when it decided to conclude a separate peace treaty in 1979.\n"}
{"id": "51509183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51509183", "title": "Swords in courts-martial", "text": "Swords in courts-martial\n\nThe usage of swords in courts-martial was an established tradition within the British armed forces. The accused was marched into their court-martial by an escort armed with a sword. Commissioned officers would be obliged to put their swords on the court table as a symbol of their rank and reputation being put on hold. At the conclusion of the hearing, the tip of the sword was turned towards them if they had been found guilty. The practice was abolished in 2004 following a claim that it was demeaning under the Human Rights Act 1998.\n\nTraditionally in British courts-martial, all court officials would wear swords as well as all officers, whether they were a witness or were acting for the defence or prosecution. All accused, regardless of rank, would be marched into the courtroom by an armed escort. Officers' escorts would carry a drawn sword. If the accused was not an officer, the escort would carry a drawn cutlass. The accused officer would then have to lay his sword lengthwise on the court table as a symbol of putting his officer's commission and reputation on hold and on the line. When the verdict was decided, the judge would move the sword. If the tip of the sword pointed towards the accused, it meant they had been found guilty. If the sword was either unmoved or the hilt of the sword was pointing towards the accused then he had been found not guilty.\n\nIn 2000, two weeks after the Human Rights Act 1998 came into force, a court martial was challenged that all swords should be removed from court as it was claimed to be \"degrading\". The Judge Advocate at the trial agreed for all present to remove their swords but did so under common law practice, describing them as an \"unnecessary encumbrance\". The European Court of Human Rights case of \"Grieves v United Kingdom\", which concerned the independence of members of courts martial, referred to the use of swords but this was not part of the issues for determination by the court. In 2004 Her Majesty's Government declared that it would no longer require the accused to be marched in with an armed escort nor would any members present wear sheathed swords. This came after Grieves' solicitor had written to the Secretary of State for Defence comparing the procedure to a \"Gilbert and Sullivan opera\" and threatened to go back to the European Court for a ruling on swords for being intimidating.\n\nThe Royal Australian Navy retains the practice of the sword on the table at courts-martial, as does the Indian Army.\n"}
{"id": "3873057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3873057", "title": "The Baseball Network", "text": "The Baseball Network\n\nThe Baseball Network was a short-lived television broadcasting joint venture between ABC, NBC and Major League Baseball. Under the arrangement, beginning in the 1994 season, the league produced its own in-house telecasts of games, which were then brokered to air on ABC and NBC. This was perhaps most evident by the copyright beds shown at the end of the telecasts, which stated \"The proceeding program has been paid for by the office of The Commissioner of Baseball\". The Baseball Network was the first television network in the United States to be owned by a professional sports league. In essence, The Baseball Network could be seen as a forerunner to the MLB Network, which would debut about 15 years later.\n\nThe package included coverage of games in primetime on selected nights throughout the regular season (under the branding Baseball Night in America), along with coverage of the postseason and the World Series. Unlike previous broadcasting arrangements with the league, there was no national \"game of the week\" during the regular season; these would be replaced by multiple weekly regional telecasts on certain nights of the week. Additionally, The Baseball Network had exclusive coverage windows; no other broadcaster could televise MLB games during the same night that The Baseball Network was televising games.\n\nThe arrangement did not last long; due to the effects of a players' strike on the remainder of the 1994 season, and poor reception from fans and critics over how the coverage was implemented, The Baseball Network would be disbanded after the 1995 season. While NBC would maintain rights to certain games, the growing Fox network (having established its own sports division two years earlier in 1994) became the league's new national broadcast partner beginning in 1996, with its then-parent company News Corporation eventually purchasing the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1998 (although the company has since sold the team).\n\nAfter the fall-out from CBS's financial problems from their exclusive, four-year-long, US$1.8 billion television contract with Major League Baseball (a contract that ultimately cost the network approximately $500 million), Major League Baseball decided to go into the business of producing the telecasts themselves and market these to advertisers on its own. In reaction to the failed trial with CBS, Major League Baseball was desperately grasping for every available dollar. To put things into proper perspective, in 1991, the second year of the league's contract with the network, CBS reported a loss of around $169 million in the third quarter of the year. A decline in advertiser interest caused revenue from the sale of commercials during CBS's baseball telecasts to plummet. All the while, CBS was still contractually obligated to pay Major League Baseball around $260 million a year through 1993. Before Major League Baseball decided to seek the services of other networks, CBS offered US$120 million in annual rights fees over a two-year period, as well as advertising revenues in excess of $150 million a season.\n\nAs part of MLB's attempt to produce and market the games in-house, it hoped to provide games of regional interests to appropriate markets. Major League Baseball in the process, hoped to offer important games for divisional races to the overall market. Owners also hoped that this particular technique, combined with the additional division races created through league expansion (the Colorado Rockies and Florida Marlins had begun play the year prior) and the quest for wild card spots for the playoffs (1994 was the first year of three divisions for each league) would increase the national broadcast revenue for Major League Baseball in the foreseeable future.\n\nAfter a four-year hiatus, ABC and NBC (who last aired \"Thursday Night Baseball\" games and the Saturday afternoon \"Game of the Week\" respectively) returned to Major League Baseball under the umbrella of a revenue sharing venture called The Baseball Network. Under a six-year plan (with an option for two additional years), Major League Baseball was intended to receive 85% of the first US$140 million in advertising revenue (or 87.5% of advertising revenues and corporate sponsorship from the games until sales topped a specified level), 50% of the next $30 million, and 80% of any additional money. Prior to this, Major League Baseball was projected to take a projected 55% cut in rights fees and receive a typical rights fee from the networks. When compared to the previous TV deal with CBS, The Baseball Network was supposed to bring in 50% less of the broadcasting revenue. The advertisers were reportedly excited about the arrangement with The Baseball Network because the new package included several changes intended to boost ratings, especially among younger viewers.\n\nArranging broadcasts through The Baseball Network seemed, on the surface, to benefit NBC and ABC (who each contributed $10 million in start-up funds) since it gave them a monopoly on broadcasting Major League Baseball games. The deal was similar to a time-buy, instead of a traditional rights fee situation. It also stood to benefit the networks because they reduced the risk associated with purchasing the broadcast rights outright (in stark contrast to CBS's disastrous contract with Major League Baseball from the 1990–1993 seasons). NBC and ABC were to create a loss-free environment for each other and keep an emerging Fox, which had recently made an aggressive and ultimately successful $1.58 billion bid for the television rights for National Football Conference games (thus, becoming a major player in the sports broadcasting game in the process), at bay. As a result of Fox's NFL gain, CBS was weakened further by affiliate changes, as a number of stations jumped to Fox from CBS (for example, in Detroit, WWJ-TV replaced WJBK).\n\nKey figures involved in the creation and production for The Baseball Network:\n\nThe Baseball Network kicked off its coverage on July 12, 1994 on NBC with the All-Star Game from Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh. The NBC broadcast team consisted of Bob Costas on play-by-play, with Joe Morgan and Bob Uecker as analysts. Costas, a veteran presence at NBC, had been the network's secondary baseball play-by-play announcer behind Vin Scully during the 1980s. Morgan, who was also working for ESPN at the time, had spent two years at NBC in the mid-1980s and two years at ABC from 1988-1989. Uecker, the longtime voice of the Milwaukee Brewers, returned to national television for the first time since he worked for ABC in the 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nGreg Gumbel hosted the pre game show; this was one of his first assignments for NBC after having left CBS Sports following the 1994 College World Series. Helping with interviews were Hannah Storm and Johnny Bench. The 1994 All-Star Game reportedly sold out all its advertising slots. This was considered an impressive financial accomplishment, given that one 30-second spot cost US$300,000.\n\nABC, meanwhile, was able to have its primary broadcast team from 1989 return intact. Al Michaels served as the play-by-play announcer once again. Tim McCarver, who had just spent four years at CBS, returned as an analyst along with Jim Palmer. On the subject of Michaels returning to baseball for the first time since the infamous Loma Prieta earthquake interrupted the 1989 World Series, Jim Palmer said, \"Here Al is, having done five games since 1989, and steps right in. It's hard to comprehend how one guy could so amaze.\"\n\nAfter the All-Star Game was complete, ABC took over coverage with what was to be their weekly slate of games. ABC was scheduled to televise six regular season games on Saturdays or Mondays in prime time. NBC would then pick up where ABC left off by televising six more regular season Friday night games. Every \"Baseball Night in America\" game was scheduled to begin at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time (or 8:00 p.m. Pacific Time if the game occurred on the West Coast). A single starting time gave the networks the opportunity to broadcast one game and then, simultaneously, cut to another game when there was a break in action.\n\nThe networks had exclusive rights for the twelve regular season dates, in that no regional or national cable service (such as ESPN or superstations like Chicago's WGN-TV or Atlanta's WTBS) or over-the-air broadcaster was allowed to telecast a Major League Baseball game on those dates. \"Baseball Night in America\" (which premiered on July 16, 1994) usually aired up to fourteen games based on the viewers' region (affiliates chose games of local interest to carry) as opposed to a traditional coast-to-coast format. Normally, announcers who represented each of the teams playing in the respective games were paired with each other. More specifically, on regional Saturday night broadcasts and all non-\"national\" broadcasts, TBN let the two lead announcers from the opposing teams call the games involving their teams together.\n\nGames involving either of the two Canadian-based MLB teams at the time, the Toronto Blue Jays and Montreal Expos, were not always included in the \"Baseball Night in America\" package. Canadian rightsholders were allowed to broadcast the games. When TSN (which owned the cable rights to the Blue Jays and Expos) covered the games in Canada, they re-broadcast the \"BNIA\" feed across their network. Typically, if the Blue Jays were idle for the day, the Expos would be featured on TSN. Also, CBET (the CBC affiliate in Windsor, Ontario) would air Blue Jays games if the Detroit Tigers were not playing at home that night or if the Blue Jays scheduled to play in Detroit. Whether or not the game would air in the opposing team's market would depend on which time zone they were from, or if they shared a market with another team.\n\nRatings for both seasons of the \"Baseball Night in America\" regular season coverage were substantially higher than CBS's final season in 1993 (3.8) or any subsequent season on Fox. \"Baseball Night in America\" earned a 6.2 during the strike-shortened 1994 season and a 5.8 in 1995.\n\nAll of these games aired on ABC; due to the strike NBC was unable to air its slate of games, which were supposed to begin on August 26.\n\nIn even-numbered years, NBC would have the rights to the All-Star Game and both League Championship Series while ABC would have the World Series and newly created Division Series. In odd-numbered years, the postseason and All-Star Game television rights were supposed to alternate. When ABC and NBC last covered baseball together from 1976 to 1989, ABC had the rights to the World Series in odd-numbered years while NBC would cover the All-Star Game and both League Championship Series in said years. Likewise, this process would alternate in even numbered years, with ABC getting the All-Star Game and both LCS in years that NBC had the World Series.\n\nThe networks also promised not to begin any World Series weekend broadcasts after 7:20 p.m. Eastern Time. When CBS held the television rights, postseason games routinely aired on the East Coast at 8:30 p.m. at the earliest. This meant that Joe Carter's dramatic World Series clinching home run in 1993 occurred after midnight in the East. As CBS' baseball coverage progressed, the network dropped the 8:00 p.m. pregame coverage (in favor of airing sitcoms such as \"Evening Shade\") before finally starting its coverage at 8:30 p.m. Eastern Time. The first pitch would generally arrive at approximately 8:45 p.m.\n\nABC won the rights to the first dibs at the World Series in August 1993 after ABC Sports president Dennis Swanson won a coin toss by calling \"heads.\" Ken Schanzer, who was the CEO of The Baseball Network, handled the coin toss. Schanzer agreed to the coin toss by ABC and NBC at the outset as the means of determining the order in which they would divide up the playoffs.\n\nWhat separated The Baseball Network from previous television deals with Major League Baseball, and was by far the most controversial part of the deal, was that not all postseason games (aside from the World Series) were guaranteed to be shown nationally. To increase viewership by preventing games from being played in the afternoon (the league was the only professional sports league in the country to play postseason games during the afternoon), the National League and American League's division and championship series games were instead played simultaneously in primetime, and affiliates could only air one game each night, which were again determined regionally. If one playoff series had already concluded, the remaining games would be aired nationally. Despite the frustration of not being able to see both League Championship Series on a national level, the 1995 LCS averaged a 13.1 rating.\n\nBesides the 1994 All-Star Game and Game 6 of the 1995 World Series, arguably, the most famous Baseball Network broadcast was Game 5 of the 1995 American League Division Series between the New York Yankees and the Seattle Mariners, broadcast on ABC. It ended with the Mariners winning in 11 innings (via Edgar Martínez's game winning double), to clinch their first ever trip to the American League Championship Series.\n\nA major problem with \"Baseball Night in America\" was the idea that viewers could not watch \"important\" games. Marty Noble put it in perspective by saying \"With the \"Network\" determining when games will begin and which games are made available to which TV markets, Major League Baseball can conduct parts of its pennant races in relative secrecy.\" What added to the troubles of The Baseball Network was the fact that \"Baseball Night in America\" held exclusivity over every market. This most severely impacted markets with two teams, specifically New York City (Mets and Yankees), the Greater Los Angeles Area (Dodgers and Angels), Chicago (Cubs and White Sox), the San Francisco Bay Area (Giants and A's), and even Texas (Astros and Rangers). For example, if \"Baseball Night in America\" showed a Yankees game, this meant that nobody in New York could see that night's Mets game and vice versa.\n\nThings got so bad for The Baseball Network that even local broadcasters objected to its operations. KSMO-TV in Kansas City, the primary over-the-air station for the Kansas City Royals, went as far as to sue the Royals for breach of contract resulting from their broadcasts being \"overexposed\" and violating its territorial exclusivity. Worse yet, even if a market had only one team, the ABC or NBC affiliate could still not broadcast that team's game if the start time was not appropriate for the time zone. For example, if the Detroit Tigers (the only team in their market) played a road game in Seattle, Oakland or Anaheim beginning at 8:00 p.m. Pacific Time (a late game), Detroit's Baseball Network affiliate (either WXYZ-TV or WDIV, depending on the network which held the rights to the game) could not air the game because the start time was too late for the Detroit area (11:00 p.m. Eastern Time). Detroit viewers only had the option of viewing the early game of the night.\n\n\"Sports Illustrated\" columnist Tom Verducci for one, was very harsh on The Baseball Network, dubbing it both \"America's regional pastime\" and an \"abomination.\" ABC Sports president Dennis Swanson, in announcing the dissolution of The Baseball Network, said \"The fact of the matter is, Major League Baseball seems incapable at this point in time, of living with any long term relationships, whether it's with fans, with players, with the political community in Washington, with the advertising community here in Manhattan, or with its TV partners.\"\n\nShortly after the start of the strike, Stanford University's Roger Noll argued that the Baseball Network deal (and the bargain-basement ESPN cable renewal, which went from $100 million to $42 million because of their losses) reflected \"poor business judgment on the part of management about the long-run attractiveness of their product to national broadcasters.\" He added that the $140 million that owners expected to share for the 1994 season (before the strike) from TBN was underestimated by \"one-third to one-half\" and fell below the annual average of $165 million needed to renew the TBN deal after two years. Meanwhile, Andy Zimbalist, author of \"Baseball and Billions\", and a players' union consulting economist, insisted that baseball could have done better than the TBN deal with some combination of CBS (which offered $120 million last-ditch bid for renewal), Fox and TBS. Baseball shut out CBS and could have waited longer before closing them out.\"\n\nFive years after The Baseball Network dissolved, NBC Sports play-by-play announcer Bob Costas wrote in his book \"Fair Ball: A Fan's Case for Baseball\" that The Baseball Network was \"stupid and an abomination.\" Costas further wrote that the agreement involving the World Series being the only instance of The Baseball Network broadcasting a nationally televised game was an unprecedented surrender of prestige, as well as a slap to all serious fans. He believed that The Baseball Network fundamentally corrupted the game and acknowledged that the most impassioned fans in baseball were now prevented from watching many of the playoff games that they wanted to see, as all playoff games had been broadcast nationally for decades. Costas added that both the divisional series and the League Championship Series now merited scarcely higher priority than regional coverage provided for a Big Ten football game between Wisconsin and Michigan.\n\nAccording to Curt Smith's book, \"The Voice – Mel Allen's Untold Story\", the longtime New York Yankees broadcaster and \"This Week in Baseball\" host was quoted as saying \"You wonder how anything would be worse [than CBS]. What kind of show cancels a twenty-six-week-season's first fourteen weeks?\" (in response to TBN's tagline, \"Welcome to the Show\").\n\nDuring the 1995 Division Series, the fan frustration with The Baseball Network was so bad that the mere mention of it during the Mariners–Yankees ALDS from public address announcer Tom Hutyler at Seattle's Kingdome brought boos from most of the crowd. To further put things into perspective, 55% of the country was able to get the American League Championship Series (Cleveland-Seattle) while 45% got the National League Championship Series (Atlanta-Cincinnati) for at least the first two games on ABC.\n\nThe long-term plans for The Baseball Network began to crumble after players and owners went on strike on August 12, 1994. In addition to the cancellation of that year's World Series, ABC was denied its remaining \"Baseball Night in America\" telecasts and NBC was shut out of its game broadcast slate (which in 1994, was scheduled to begin on August 26) altogether. Both networks elected to dissolve the partnership with Major League Baseball on June 22, 1995. Both networks figured that as the delayed 1995 baseball season opened without a labor agreement, there was no guarantee against another strike. It should also be noted that under the terms of the agreement, it could be voided by any party if the venture did not produce a minimum of $330 million in revenue over the first two years.\n\nThe Baseball Network's contract stipulated that negotiations could only take place with NBC and ABC for 45 days, starting on August 15, 1995. But with NBC and ABC's refusal to continue after the 1995 season, baseball had to look at its future options. In October 1995, when it was a known fact that ABC and NBC were going to end their television deal/joint venture with Major League Baseball, preliminary talks rose about CBS returning. It was rumored that CBS would show Thursday night games (more specifically, a package of West Coast interleague games scheduled for the 11:30 Eastern/8:30 Pacific Time slot) while Fox would show Saturday afternoon games. CBS and Fox were also rumored to share rights to the postseason. In the end however, CBS's involvement did not come to pass and NBC became Fox's over-the-air national television partner. Whereas each team earned about $14 million in 1990 under CBS the later TV agreement with NBC and Fox beginning in 1996 earned each team about $6.8 million.\n\nTo salvage the remains of the partnership, ABC and NBC elected to share coverage of the 1995 postseason including the World Series. ABC wound up broadcasting Games 1, 4, and 5 of 1995 World Series while NBC would broadcast Games 2, 3, and 6 (which turned out to be the decisive game). Had the 1995 World Series gone to a seventh game, it would have then been broadcast by ABC. As it stands, Game 5 of the 1995 World Series is to date, the final Major League Baseball game to be broadcast on ABC.\n\nOthers would argue that a primary reason for its failure was its abandoning of localized markets in favor of more lucrative and stable advertising contracts afforded by turning to a national model of broadcasting, similar to the National Football League's television package, which focuses on localized games, with one or two \"national\" games.\n\nIn the end, the venture would lose US$95 million in advertising and nearly $500 million in national and local spending. The Baseball Network generated only about $5.5 million per team in revenue for each of the two years that it operated. To put things into proper perspective, in 1993 alone, CBS generated about $14.7 million per team. Much of this could possibly be traced back to the strike causing a huge drop in revenue, which in return caused baseball salaries to decrease by approximately $140,000 on average in 1995.\n\nBoth ABC and NBC soon publicly vowed to cut all ties with Major League Baseball for the remainder of the 20th century, and Fox signed on to be the exclusive network carrier of Major League Baseball regular season games in 1996. However, NBC kept a postseason-only (with the exception of even-numbered years when NBC had the rights to the All-Star Game) deal in the end, signing a deal to carry three Division Series games, one half of the League Championship Series (the ALCS in even numbered years and the NLCS in odd numbered years; Fox would televise the other LCS in said years), and the 1997 and 1999 World Series respectively (Fox had exclusive rights to the 1996, 1998 and 2000 World Series). Beginning in 2001, Fox would become the exclusive broadcast network for the World Series.\n\nFox's end of the new contract (which the network paid US$575 million for the initial five-year contract) restored the Saturday afternoon \"Game of the Week\" broadcasts during the regular season (approximately 16 weekly telecasts annually that normally began on Memorial Day weekend), although it continued to offer a selection of games based on region, with usually three regionalized telecasts airing each week.\n\nWith ABC being sold to The Walt Disney Company in 1996, ESPN would pick up daytime and late-evening Division Series games with a provision similar to its National Football League games, in which the games would only air on network affiliates in the local markets of the two participating teams. ESPN's Major League Baseball contract was not affected then, but would take a hit in 1998 with the new National Football League contract.\n\nIn 2012, Fox would revive the \"Baseball Night in America\" title (previously used for The Baseball Network's games) for a series of Saturday night games. Unlike The Baseball Network, Fox did not carry every game that was scheduled for a given Saturday, only choosing five to six games to distribute to its affiliates.\n\nAs far as the primary announce teams for The Baseball Network were concerned, they mostly went their separate ways. Al Michaels remained at ABC until 2006 (his final assignment for ABC Sports was Super Bowl XL), when he moved to NBC to become the voice of their Sunday night NFL coverage. Tim McCarver joined Fox as its primary analyst alongside Joe Buck and stayed there until his retirement from national TV broadcasts in 2013. Jim Palmer, meanwhile, would rejoin the Orioles as their television analyst, where he still remains. \n\nNBC's primary crew remained in place for two more years. Bob Uecker would leave following the 1997 World Series, but Bob Costas and Joe Morgan would continue calling games until NBC's contract expired following the 2000 season. The network's final game to date was Game 6 of the 2000 American League Championship Series. Costas has since become the lead broadcaster for MLB Network (as previously alluded towards, MLB Network's self-produced, live \"MLB Showcase\" telecasts could be seen as a spiritual successor to The Baseball Network's broadcasts), while Morgan kept working for ESPN until the end of the 2010 season.\n\nIt should also be noted that on July 8, 2011, the top two play-by-play men for The Baseball Network (who called the World Series for their respective networks 16 years prior), Al Michaels and Bob Costas teamed up (with the two announcers alternating between play-by-play and color commentary) to call a game between the New York Mets and San Francisco Giants on MLB Network. It was Michaels' first appearance as a primary announcer on a baseball telecast since Game 5 of the 1995 World Series on ABC. (as previously mentioned, Michaels had called Games 1, 4 and 5 of that series with Jim Palmer and Tim McCarver, while Costas called Games 2, 3 and 6 with Joe Morgan and Bob Uecker for NBC.) Michaels and Costas also made appearances on SportsNet New York and Comcast SportsNet Bay Area during the game's middle innings, since the MLB Network broadcast was blacked out in the Mets' and Giants' respective home markets.\n\nAs previously mentioned announcers who represented each of the teams playing in the respective games were typically paired with each other during games on regular season \"Baseball Night in America\" telecasts. Also as previously mentioned, ABC used Al Michaels, Jim Palmer, Tim McCarver and Lesley Visser as the lead broadcasting team (Brent Musburger, CBS alumnus Jim Kaat, and Jack Arute became the secondary team for ABC). Meanwhile, NBC used Bob Costas, Joe Morgan, Bob Uecker and Jim Gray as their lead broadcasting team. John Saunders was the studio host for ABC's \"Baseball Night in America\" coverage. Hannah Storm hosted NBC's studio show for the lone season in which the network was able to participate in The Baseball Network; Greg Gumbel was NBC's studio host for its coverage of the 1994 All-Star Game (as previously mentioned). In 1995, Gumbel became the secondary play-by-play announcer for NBC (working with Joe Morgan on the National League Championship Series) behind Bob Costas. Dick Enberg was supposed to be the secondary play-by-play announcer in 1994 for NBC, but by the following season, his other commitments for NBC such as golf and football rendered him unavailable to broadcast baseball.\n\n"}
{"id": "10732235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10732235", "title": "United Kingdom declaration of war on Japan", "text": "United Kingdom declaration of war on Japan\n\nOn 8 December 1941, the government of the United Kingdom declared war on the Empire of Japan, following the Japanese attacks on Malaya, Singapore and Hong Kong. The British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Anthony Eden, was in transit to Moscow at the time, so Prime Minister Winston Churchill was in charge of the Foreign Office. The text of his letter to the Japanese Ambassador was as follows:\n\nOf the letter, Churchill later wrote: \"Some people did not like this ceremonial style. But after all when you have to kill a man it costs nothing to be polite.\"\n\n\nWinston S. Churchill: The Second World War (vol.3): the Grand Alliance. (1950) \n"}
{"id": "3467916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3467916", "title": "United States ex rel. Gerald Mayo v. Satan and His Staff", "text": "United States ex rel. Gerald Mayo v. Satan and His Staff\n\nUnited States ex rel. Gerald Mayo v. Satan and His Staff, 54 F.R.D. 282 (W.D.Pa. 1971), was a federal court case in which a prisoner filed a lawsuit against Satan and his servants in United States District Court. It was dismissed on procedural grounds.\n\nThe rights of inmates while behind bars. All inmates are protected by the Eighth Amendment from cruel and unusual punishment. The definition of cruel and unusual punishment is not clear. A violation of a person's dignity could be considered cruel and unusual. Prisoners are entitled to medical care and treatment.\n\nGerald Mayo, a 22 year old inmate at Western Penitentiary in Pittsburgh, filed a claim before the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania in which Mayo alleged that \"Satan has on numerous occasions caused plaintiff misery and unwarranted threats, against the will of plaintiff, that Satan has placed deliberate obstacles in his path and has caused plaintiff's downfall\" and had therefore \"deprived him of his constitutional rights,\" allegedly prohibited under several sections of the United States Code. Mayo filed \"in forma pauperis\" - that is, he asserted that he would not be able to afford the costs associated with his lawsuit and that they therefore should be waived. Mayo filed a law suit against Satan and his minions, not the prison system. Mayo filed suit against external forces that the prison had no control over. \n\nIn his decision, U.S. District Court Judge Gerald J. Weber first noted that the jurisdictional situation was unclear. While no previous cases had been brought by or against Satan and so no official precedent existed, there was an \"unofficial account of a trial in New Hampshire where this defendant filed an action of mortgage foreclosure as plaintiff\", a reference to the short story \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\". Judge Weber suggested that the Devil (who had claimed in that story to be an American), should he appear, might have been therefore estopped from arguing a lack of personal jurisdiction. In this context, the Court noted that Satan was a foreign prince, but did not have occasion to address whether, if sued as a defendant, he would be able to claim sovereign immunity from suit.\n\nJudge Weber noted that three of the four requirements for a class action suit were met (commonality [there are questions of law or fact common to the class], numerosity [the class is so large that individual suits is impractical], and typicality [claims of each class member are typical of the claims of the class]). However, class action status was not granted because the judge was unable to determine whether Mayo would adequately represent the class (the adequacy element).\n\nFinally, the judge noted that Mayo had failed to provide directions to the United States Marshals Service as to service of process.\n\nCiting the foregoing reasons, the court refused the request to proceed \"in forma pauperis\". \n\nThe Court doubted the need for action due to the complaint containing no allegation of residence in plaintiff. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31879", "title": "Universal Copyright Convention", "text": "Universal Copyright Convention\n\nThe Universal Copyright Convention (UCC), adopted in Geneva, Switzerland, in 1952, is one of the two principal international conventions protecting copyright; the other is the Berne Convention.\n\nThe UCC was developed by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as an alternative to the Berne Convention for those states which disagreed with aspects of the Berne Convention, but still wished to participate in some form of multilateral copyright protection. These states included developing countries as well as the United States and most of Latin America. The former thought that the strong copyright protections granted by the Berne Convention overly benefited Western, developed, copyright-exporting nations, whereas the latter two were already members of the Buenos Aires Convention, a Pan-American copyright convention that was weaker than the Berne Convention. The Berne Convention states also became party to the UCC, so that their copyrights would exist in non-Berne convention states. In 1973, the Soviet Union joined the UCC.\n\nThe United States only provided copyright protection for a fixed, renewable term, and required that in order for a work to be copyrighted it must contain a copyright notice and be registered at the Copyright Office. The Berne Convention, on the other hand, provided for copyright protection for a single term based on the life of the author, and did not require registration or the inclusion of a copyright notice for copyright to exist. Thus the United States would have to make several major modifications to its copyright law in order to become a party to it. At the time the United States was unwilling to do so. The UCC thus permits those states which had a system of protection similar to the United States for fixed terms at the time of signature to retain them. Eventually the United States became willing to participate in the Berne convention, and change its national copyright law as required. In 1989 it became a party to the Berne Convention as a result of the Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988.\n\nUnder the Second Protocol of the Universal Copyright Convention (Paris text), protection under U.S. copyright law is expressly required for works published by the United Nations, by UN specialized agencies and by the Organization of American States (OAS). The same requirement applies to other contracting states as well.\n\nBerne Convention states were concerned that the existence of the UCC would encourage parties to the Berne Convention to leave that convention and adopt the UCC instead. So the UCC included a clause stating that parties which were also Berne Convention parties need not apply the provisions of the Convention to any former Berne Convention state which renounced the Berne Convention after 1951. Thus any state which adopts the Berne Convention is penalised if it then decides to renounce it and use the UCC protections instead, since its copyrights might no longer exist in Berne Convention states.\n\nSince almost all countries are either members or aspiring members of the World Trade Organization (WTO), and are thus conforming to the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights Agreement (TRIPS), the UCC has lost significance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1252367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252367", "title": "Wage regulation", "text": "Wage regulation\n\nWage regulation refers to attempts by a government to regulate wages paid to citizens.\n\nMinimum wage regulation attempts to set an hourly, or other periodic monetary standard for pay at work. A recent example was the U.K. National Minimum Wage Act 1998. Germany is currently debating whether to introduce its own.\n\nCollective agreements between trade unions and employers can regulate wages of workers according to the needs of the business.\n\nArbitration involves makes collective agreements between trade unions and employers legally binding and mediated through a state appointed judge or magistrate.\n\nAn economic analysis of the law holds very simply that any intervention in a contract between two parties creates an inefficient labour market. Wages kept artificially high, by imposing any administrative or monetary costs on employers distorts the labour market equilibrium. For a national economy in a globalised world, that means jobs will go overseas and the unemployment rate rises. Major proponents of this sort of labour economics include Nobel Prize winner from the University of Chicago, Professor Gary Becker. Professor Becker keeps a blog with well-known academic and judge, Richard Posner. Posner is a lawyer and economist, and wrote a book called \"Economic Analysis of Law\". His starting assumption is that unions are the cartelisation of the labour market. Both would agree, that if its aim is to improve the living standards of society, wage regulation defeats itself. Posner says, “Economics is not a theory about consciousness. Behaviour is rational when it conforms to the model of rational choice, whatever the state of mind of the chooser.” So any conscious attempt to improve working standards are impossible under this view.\n\n"}
