{"id": "39623949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39623949", "title": "2013 dengue outbreak in Singapore", "text": "2013 dengue outbreak in Singapore\n\nIn the 2013 dengue outbreak in Singapore, a significant rise in the number of dengue fever cases was reported in Singapore. In the week of 16–22 June 2013, there was a record of 842 dengue cases in Singapore in a single week. This figure was far beyond the highest number of cases per week in the years 2010, 2011 and 2012. The number of weekly dengue fever cases has exceeded the epidemic threshold of 237.\n\nAs official data showed, more than 13,000 people were infected with dengue as of mid-July in 2013, fast nearing the total 14,209 infections in 2005 dengue outbreak, the worst year on record. The 2005 record was officially passed on 5 August 2013 with more than 14,000 people infected. The total number of cases soared past the 20000 mark on 18 November 2013.\n\nThe number of dengue cases is rising at a faster rate and is expected to surpass 1,000 infections in a week. The total number of cases passed the 150% mark of the previous record on 13 December with 21,324 cases.\n\nIn the fourth week of June, a total of 842 new cases were reported, bringing the total number of dengue cases to cross the 11,000 mark.\n\nThe total number of Dengue cases subsequently crossed the 13,000 mark on 16 July 2013.\n\nDengue claimed its first death in Singapore on 29 May 2013. The victim was diagnosed as having viral fever on 23 May at Tan Tock Seng Hospital's Emergency Department. He was then discharged with the advice to return if his condition worsened. He subsequently returned to Tan Tock Seng Hospital on 26 May and was diagnosed with dengue fever. He then died from dengue shock syndrome on 29 May.\n\nOn 9 June 2013, a second person died from dengue in Singapore. He was tested positive for dengue on 8 June, but his condition deteriorated.\n\nThe third dengue death was reported on 25 June 2013. He was admitted to Khoo Teck Puat Hospital emergency department (ED) on 22 June 2013 with fever and low blood pressure. He was then sent to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) diagnosed with a dengue shock syndrome, kidney failure and liver inflammation. His condition deteriorated and died on 25 June 2013.\n\nAn Indonesian male was also pronounced dead on 25 June 2013 and has become the fourth person to die from dengue in Singapore. The victim contracted dengue fever overseas between 10–21 June 2013 and was subsequently sent to Tan Tock Seng Hospital's Emergency Department on 23 June 2013 after a prolonged 3-day fever. His condition started to deteriorate on 24 June 2013 in the Intensive Care unit (ICU).\n\nThe fifth person to die from dengue in Singapore was a 66-year-old Chinese male who suffered multi-organ failure from severe dengue shock syndrome. He had initially gone to the Emergency Department on 2 July with fever and lethargy, and subsequent tests confirmed dengue fever. He was admitted and transferred to the ICU after deterioration, but continued to deteriorate and died on the morning of 8 July.\n\nThe sixth death was a 52-year-old Chinese male. He was first seen at Jurong Polyclinic on 29 June 2013 with a two-day history of fever. He returned to the polyclinic a few days later as he was still having fever and was referred by the polyclinic to the National University Hospital (NUH) emergency department. He was admitted to NUH's Medical Intensive Care Unit on the same day and was diagnosed with Dengue Shock Syndrome. The patient's condition improved transiently after dialysis and supportive therapy but he remained critically ill with low blood counts. The patient's condition deteriorated after he developed pneumonia with septic shock on 11 August 2013 and he died on 13 Aug 2013.\n\nA 35-year-old Chinese woman died of dengue on Monday, becoming the seventh death in 2013. The patient, who lived at Yishun Ring Road, had gone to the Khoo Teck Puat Hospital's Emergency Department on 28 September 2013 with a history of fever, chest pain, lethargy, nausea and loss of appetite and had intermittent fever for three weeks. She was diagnosed with dengue fever and admitted but her condition deteriorated after admission and she was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit on the same day. Despite these measures, the patient died on 30 September 2013 at 5.05am.\n\nA 53-year-old woman has become the seventh local dengue death case this year, and the overall eighth death. In a joint statement, the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the National Environment Agency (NEA) said the dengue patient lived at Hougang Street 22. The woman, who was first seen at Tan Tock Hospital's Emergency Department on 11 November, had a history of fever. She was diagnosed with dengue and admitted. Her condition deteriorated and she died on 16 November.\n\nOn 5 June 2013, Sembawang-Nee Soon Town Council was fined S$200 for allowing mosquitos to breed in water tanks the council controlled. Officers from the National Environment Agency (NEA) found mosquito larvae in water tanks at the rooftops of Blocks 896C and 899A in Woodlands.\n\nOn 14 June 2013, the head of NEA announced that they will be recruiting more officers to conduct routine checks at all homes in the active cluster zone. At the same time, the National Environment Agency started using its legislative powers. The agency got a locksmith to open ten homes as the residents did not respond to notices sent to them.\n\nOn 2 July 2013, People's Association (PA) announced that they will be recruiting 10,000 volunteers to assist NEA officers during house visits, they will be named as \"dengue fighters\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30630585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30630585", "title": "AWBZ", "text": "AWBZ\n\nThe Algemene Wet Bijzondere Ziektekosten (\"general law on exceptional medical expenses\"), often known by the acronym AWBZ, is a Dutch health care law that first came into effect in 1968. It aims to provide general insurance covering the Dutch population against special health care needs. AWBZ is mainly aimed at financing 'care', as opposed to 'cure', which is mainly financed by insurers regulated by the Zorgverzekeringswet. It finances most of the healthcare expenditures. \n\nIt can cover:\n\n"}
{"id": "3174782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3174782", "title": "Abnormal basal metabolic rate", "text": "Abnormal basal metabolic rate\n\nAbnormal basal metabolic rate refers to a high or low basal metabolic rate (BMR). It has numerous causes, both physiological (part of the body's normal function) and pathological (associated with disease).\n\nAn abnormal basal metabolic rate is not necessarily indicative of disease; a number of physiological factors can alter the BMR by influencing cellular metabolic activity. For instance, males are more likely than females to have a high BMR, and in women, the BMR may rise to abnormal levels during pregnancy or lactation. An individual's BMR varies greatly with age: infants and children typically have a high BMR, required for growth, while the elderly have a low BMR. Tall, thin people have a higher BMR than their shorter counterparts, even with the same weight, due to the greater surface area of their skin. The metabolic rate also decreases during sleep and increases in exercise, and individuals who exercise regularly have a higher BMR than those who are sedentary. Environmental temperature also has an effect: the BMR is increased in both heat and cold.\n\nA common pathological cause for a high BMR is fever, since a rise in body temperature increases the rate of cellular metabolic reactions. It is estimated that for every degree Fahrenheit of rise in body temperature, the BMR increases by 7 percent.\n\nThyroid disease also has a marked effect on BMR, since thyroid hormones regulate the rate of cellular metabolism. Hyperthyroidism—in which there is an increase in the production of thyroid hormones—leads to a high BMR, while hypothyroidism—in which thyroid hormones are depleted—causes a low BMR.\n\nProlonged periods of abnormal nutrition cause an adaptive change in BMR; this helps the body to maintain a stable body weight in response to the change in food supply. In prolonged malnutrition, the BMR declines, while in prolonged overnutrition, the BMR is increased. Cancer sometimes causes an increase in BMR, perhaps because the cancer cells that form tumors have a high level of metabolic activity.\n"}
{"id": "38258768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38258768", "title": "Anisochromia", "text": "Anisochromia\n\nAnisochromia is a marked variation in the chromaticity, the color density of erythrocytes (red blood cells), which is particularly relevant to the description of certain blood diseases, such as the megaloblastic anemias.\n"}
{"id": "5613819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5613819", "title": "Association of Telehealth Service Providers", "text": "Association of Telehealth Service Providers\n\nAssociation of Telehealth Service Providers (ATSP) is an international membership-based trade non-profit organization dedicated to improving health care through growth of the telehealth industry and promoting the use of telecommunications in healthcare. Its main activities are advocacy, education awareness programs, and business support services. It is a business-oriented group which focuses on providing members with information and tools to facilitate the success of their telehealth activities.\n\nATSP believes that telemedicine is a practical tool that can improve the distribution of healthcare services to the benefit of both patients and providers.\n\nIt was founded in 1996 by Douglas Perednia, MD and is located in Portland, Oregon. Its executive director is Will Engle.\n\nIn June 2006, the ATSP announced that it was taking over the hosting and updating responsibilities for the Telemedicine Information Exchange (TIE). The TIE's mission is to provide an online, unbiased, all-inclusive platform for information on telemedicine and telehealth. As of April 2012, this site seems to be down.\n\n"}
{"id": "940088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=940088", "title": "Bachelor of Science in Nursing", "text": "Bachelor of Science in Nursing\n\nThe Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN, BScN) also known in some countries as a Bachelor of Nursing (BN) or Bachelor of Science (BS) with a Major in Nursing is an academic degree in the science and principles of nursing, granted by an accredited tertiary education provider. The course of study is typically three or four years. The difference in degree designation may relate to the amount of basic science courses required as part of the degree, with BScN and BSN degree curriculums requiring completion of more courses on math and natural sciences that are more typical of BSc degrees (e.g. calculus, physics, chemistry, biology) and BN curriculums more focused on nursing theory, nursing process, and teaching versions of general science topics that are adapted to be more specific and relevant to nursing practice. Nursing school students are generally required to take courses in social and behavioral sciences and liberal arts, including nutrition, anatomy, chemistry, mathematics, and English. In addition to those courses, experience in physical and social sciences, communication, leadership, and critical thinking is required for a bachelor's degree. BSN programs typically last 3–4 years. With a BSN you can work in private medical and surgical hospital, a physician's office, public medical and surgical hospitals, home health care services, and nursing facilities. Having a BSN can result in more opportunities and better salary than just an associate degree. \n\nThe bachelor's degree prepares nurses for a wide variety of professional roles and graduate study. Course work includes nursing science, research, leadership, and related areas that inform the practice of nursing. It also provides the student with general education in math, humanities and social sciences. An undergraduate degree affords opportunities for greater career advancement and higher salary options. It is often a prerequisite for teaching, administrative, consulting and research roles.\n\nA Bachelor of Science in Nursing is not currently required for entry into professional nursing in all countries. In the US, there has been an effort for it to become the entry level degree since 1964, when the American Nurses Association (ANA) advanced the position that the minimum preparation for beginning professional nursing practice should be a baccalaureate degree education in nursing. The Institute of Medicine (IOM) affirmed in 2010 that nurses should achieve higher levels of education and training through an improved education system that promotes seamless academic progression.\n\nThe Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) and the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) are the accreditation bodies for Bachelor of Science in Nursing programs in the United States. Both Commissions are officially recognized as national accreditation agencies that ensure quality standards for undergraduate to graduate nursing programs by the United States Secretary of Education.\n\nAccelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing programs allow those who already have a bachelor's degree in a non-nursing field to obtain their nursing degree at an accelerated rate, which is why they are also commonly referred to as \"Second Degree Nursing Programs.\" These programs usually have strict prerequisites because the program coursework focuses solely on nursing. Accelerated BSN programs are typically anywhere from 12–20 months.\n\nThe program is intended specifically for nurses with a diploma or certification in nursing who wish to top-up their current academic qualifications towards a full Bachelor of Science in Nursing. In order to keep the program up-to-date and relevant to the current healthcare system, the course material is updated regularly with feedback from registered nurses, nurse managers, healthcare professionals and even patients.\n\nAmong nurse educators, arguments continue about the ideal balance of practical preparation and the need to educate the future practitioner to manage healthcare and to have a broader view of the practice. To meet both requirements, nurse education aims to develop a lifelong learner who can adapt effectively to changes in both the theory and practice of nursing. Degree programs were created in the 1950s and 1960s to quickly fix the nursing shortage, and while today there is still a nursing shortage concern due to the fact that the current nursing census is made up of more than 50% of nurses above the age of 55 years old and upon retiring will create a huge nursing deficit, there is still the aim to promote higher level educated nurses at the entry level into one's nursing career. \"Recent changes in the scope of nursing practice have many hospitals are looking to select only BSN-trained nurses and are requiring current AD nurses to further their education to acquire the BSN degree. Magnet hospitals typically employ greater numbers of BSN-prepared nurses and currently require that all nurse managers and nurse leaders hold degrees at the BSN level or higher\"\n\nIn 2011 The Institute of Medicine recommended that by 2020, 80 percent of RNs hold a bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) degree This was also noted in a report titled: Institute of Medicine’s report on the Future of Nursing, and has been followed by a campaign to implement its recommendations. In this report a 2nd recommendation was made to focus on increasing the proportion of registered nurses (RNs) with a baccalaureate degree to 80% by 2020. Towards that effort the report recommends that educational associations, colleges, delivery organizations, governmental organizations, and funders develop the resources necessary to support this goal. These recommendations are consistent with other policy initiatives currently underway; for example, legislation requiring that nurses receive a baccalaureate degree within 10 years of initial licensure has been considered in New York, New Jersey, and Rhode Island\n\nThere are numerous states that are looking to propose a “BSN-in-10” legislation in order to increase the number of BSN-prepared nurses. \"This legislation would require newly licensed AD or diploma nurses to earn a BSN within 10 years of initial licensure\" The Department of Health and Human Services have noted that they feel that in light of the fact that many RN-to-BSN programs offer distance learning options, the 10-year deadline is thought to be appropriate.\n\nMany of these recommendations are being driven by recent studies regarding patient outcomes and nursing education. Hospitals employing higher percentages of BSN-prepared nurses have shown an associated decrease in morbidity, mortality, and failure-to-rescue rates. Increasing the percentage of BSN nurses employed decreases by 10 percent the 30-day inpatient mortality and failure-to-rescue rates Studies that provide this type of evidence-based practice encompass the ultimate purpose of a higher level of educated nurse workforce. It adds to support the ultimate mission of the Texas Board of Nursing (BON or Board), which is to protect and promote the welfare of the people of Texas by ensuring that each person holding a license as a nurse in this state is competent to practice safely \n\nIn an effort to improve patient outcomes, boost quality and lower costs healthcare leaders and institutions have increased expectations for evidence-based practice (EBP). The Institute of Medicine (IOM) aim is that 90% of clinical decisions will be evidence-based by 2020 (IOM, 2010). As the largest group of healthcare providers, nurses have a pivotal role in meeting this goal)\n\n"}
{"id": "886999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=886999", "title": "Ben Kerr", "text": "Ben Kerr\n\nBen Kerr (1930 – June 17, 2005) was a Canadian author, broadcaster, musician and perennial candidate, who was most famous as one of Toronto, Ontario's quirky street performers.\n\nKerr was born in Yarmouth, Nova Scotia and spent fifteen years in the Royal Canadian Air Force before settling in Toronto. In the 1960s, Kerr frequently played guitar in folk clubs in Toronto's Yorkville district working alongside groups such as Steppenwolf, the Mynah Birds, Rick James, Gordon Lightfoot and Joni Mitchell, and wrote songs for the then unknown Neil Young.\n\nIn 1969, he had a life changing experience when he gave up his three pack a day smoking habit and started taking a daily cayenne pepper cocktail. He credited the concoction with turning his health around and saving his life.\n\nFor a time, he was an executive at the Toronto Harbour Commission. A fervent anti-smoking crusader, he quit in a rage in 1981 when a co-worker blew smoke in his face. He wrote a song, \"Fire on One End, a Fool on the Other\", about the incident. This inspired him to run from Toronto to Los Angeles to promote a smoking ban in offices. The run took him six months. He was also in the 1982 Trees music video \"Shock of the New\", appearing as a guy with an oxygen mask and a shirt promoting clean air in offices.. In 1987, he played a dead man in the basement of Casa Loma in B.D. Benedikt's \"Beyond the 7th Door\".\n\nKerr supported himself as a busker for the remainder of his life, singing with a karaoke machine in front of the Hudson's Bay department store at the corner of Yonge and Bloor streets. He was often voted \"favourite street performer\" in \"Now Magazine\"'s annual Toronto survey, and it is rumoured that Kerr was once offered a recording contract with Sub Pop Records. He continued to appear frequently on radio and television as an advocate for the health benefits of cayenne pepper, and was the author of \"The Cayenne Pepper Cocktail Does it All\".\n\nAs well, he was a perennial fringe candidate who ran in every Toronto mayoral election from 1985 until 2003, the last municipal election held before his death. In 1997, he placed fourth behind Mel Lastman, Barbara Hall and Don Andrews. In the 2000 election, he ran on a platform of waterfront renewal, backed by the self-penned campaign song \"Fringe Candidate\".\n\nBen Kerr died on June 17, 2005 at his home on Jones Avenue in Toronto, at the age of 75. In 2007, Toronto City Council approved a motion to name a laneway near the corner of Danforth and Jones in Kerr's honour. Ben Kerr Lane was officially named on May 25, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "53042179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53042179", "title": "Bilqees Sarwar Foundation", "text": "Bilqees Sarwar Foundation\n\nThe Bilqees Sarwar Foundation (BSF) is a registered non-profit organization based in Lahore, Pakistan, which provides public health and education support to the local community as well as around the world. It was established by the Sarwar family, and cooperates with NRS International, a Dubai-based disaster relief supplier with a manufacturing facility in Pakistan.\n\nThe Bilqees Sarwar Hospital (BSH) provides the employees of the HSNDS factory, their family, and patients in Pakistan with free and subsidized healthcare; this includes 50 dialysis machines to use without a cost and free eye-care treatments ranging from laser vision correction to minor surgeries. Since its inception, the hospital has served a community of 500,000 citizens and treats up to 3,000 eye patients per month. The hospital offers a range of other services, including:\n\nIn June, 2016 BSF established Razia Begum Dialysis Centre (RBDC) near Kahna, to treat patients suffering from kidney disease free of charge. The centre provides free dialysis to up to 4,500 patients on a monthly basis, and has provided 5,792 dialysis treatment to date.\n\nBSF has supported Alseeraj for Development and Healthcare in order for it to continue its mobile medical clinic in Syrian refugee camps in eastern Lebanon.\n\nBSF has donated to several departments of Mayo Hospital in Punjab, Pakistan:\n\nBSF has granted 77 scholarships worth USD 33,398 to students at the Customs Public School in Lahore. The scholarship programme supports young students from the age of 3 to 13. BSF has also donated USD 11,450 in the form of 40 scholarships to Sanjan Nagar Public Education Trust for impoverished students. BSF also partnered with The City School in Lahore to sponsor the 7th Annual City School Model United Nations Conference.\n\nThe Bilqees Sarwar Foundation's parent company, NRS International, joined the Global Business Coalition for Education to extend their support towards the education of Syrian refugee children. NRS International, through BSF, has donated multi-purpose tents to serve as temporary learning spaces and homes for children to learn and live in.\n\nIn April 2015, when a devastating earthquake hit Nepal, NRS International, through BSF, provided over 400 core relief items and solar products to Nepalese earthquake victims.\n"}
{"id": "41225652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41225652", "title": "British military rations during the French and Indian War", "text": "British military rations during the French and Indian War\n\nDuring the French and Indian War, British military rations contained enough food energy to sustain the soldier in garrison but suffered from a lack of vitamins that could lead to nutritional deficiencies if not supplemented by the soldiers themselves through garden produce or purchase. During field conditions, the energy content tended to be too small. Colonial rations for provincial troops generally had a higher energy content.\n\nDuring the colonial wars the regular army was provisioned according to victualing acts enacted by the British Parliament. During the French and Indian War the daily allowance was as follows: \n\nSource:\n\nWomen permitted to accompany the army received half a ration per day, and children a quarter ration. Fresh bread and meat could be substituted with fresh or salt pork, hardtack, flour or corn meal. Additional provisions such as fruits, vegetables and cheeses were issued when available.\n\nThe enacted daily allowance had an energy content of 2,400 to 3,100 kcal per day, which was enough for garrison duty, but during field conditions it had to be supplemented in order to give sufficient energy. The main shortcoming was the lack of fresh food, especially fresh vegetables, which often led to outbreaks of scurvy, both in the field and in garrison. To avoid this, local spruce beer began to be used to supplement the rations with additional vitamin C. Spruce beer was not consistently used, however, but primarily in reaction to occurrences of scurvy. An army brewery was founded at Fort Pitt in 1765. During field conditions, the soldiers often went hungry as the supply chains could not be maintained due to long distances, primitive transportation and difficult terrain. Fresh food was also easily spoiled during hot summers.\n\nIn garrison the regular ration was supplemented with vegetables from gardens tended by the soldiers during their spare time. Turnips, carrots and cabbage were the most common crops. Soldiers in towns could also buy food in the civilian marketplace, but at border forts or in the field, they were limited to what the sutlers sold. The margin for such purchases was limited, however, due to the many stoppages taken from the soldiers' pay, among them the cost for the issued ration. While marching through populated areas, the soldiers frequently resorted to foraging, often a euphemism for theft and robbery of food from the citizenry.\n\nProvincial troops under local command were supplied according to colonial victualing regulations. They were more generous than the Victualing Act. The Massachusetts military ration had in addition to the British ration pound (225 grams) sugar, 1 pint (47 centiliters) molasses and 7 gills (82 centiliters) of rum per week. When provincial troops formed part of the field army they were provisioned through the regular army supply chain and rations were issued according to the Victualing Act. According to Pennsylvania's Militia Supply Act of 1755, the weekly ration was 3 pounds (1.4 kilograms) of meat, 1 pound (455 grams) of fish, 10 pounds (4.8 kilograms) of bread and 7 gills (82 centiliters) of rum.\n\nRations for several days were issued at the same time to messes of 5-6 soldiers who also shared a tent. Each mess was issued a camp kettle and a camp axe. The food was cooked in the camp kettles over open fires burning in fire pits. The meat ration was usually boiled together with other ingredients to make a thick soup.\n\nBread was baked by civilian bakers and the bread ration issued every fourth day as a six-pound loaf. Fresh bread could be replaced by hardtack, made by civilian bakeries and kept in storage. At worst only flour was issued, and the soldiers had to use it as best they could; either mixing it into the heavy soup or by making firecakes.\n"}
{"id": "40183020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40183020", "title": "Brussels Agreement (1924)", "text": "Brussels Agreement (1924)\n\nThe Brussels Agreement (formally the International Agreement respecting Facilities to be given to Merchant Seamen for the Treatment of Venereal Diseases) is a 1924 multilateral treaty whereby states agreed to provide free or low-cost medical facilities in ports where merchant seamen could be treated for sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nThe Brussels Agreement was concluded in Brussels, Belgium on 1 December 1924. The treaty entered into force on 21 November 1925. The Agreement was widely ratified and its effects were studied by a 1958 World Health Organization (WHO) study group. The WHO determined that the Agreement had been successful at improving the health of merchant seamen. The treaty remains in force for 70 states. It was most recently ratified by Papua New Guinea, in 1977.\n\nBelgium is the official depositary for the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "5081869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5081869", "title": "Carstairs index", "text": "Carstairs index\n\nDeveloped by Carstairs and Morris (1991), the Carstairs index is an index of deprivation used in spatial epidemiology to identify Socio-economic confounding. Developed for Scotland it was an alternative to the Townsend Index of deprivation to avoid the use of households as denominators. The Carstairs index is based on four Census variables: low social class, lack of car ownership, overcrowding and male unemployment and the overall index reflects the material deprivation of an area, in relation to the rest of Scotland. Carstairs indices are calculated at the postcode sector level, with average population sizes of approximately 5,000 persons. \n\nThe Carstairs index makes use of data collected at the Census to calculate the relative deprivation of an area, therefore there have been four versions: 1981, 1991, 2001 and 2011. The Carstairs indices are routinely produced and published by the MRC/CSO Social and Public Health Sciences Unit at the University of Glasgow.\n\nThe components of the Carstairs score are unweighted, and so to ensure that they all have equal influence over the final score, each variable is standardised to have a populatation-weighted mean of zero, and a variance of one, using the z-score method. The Carstairs index for each area is the sum of the standardised values of the components. Indices may be positive or negative, with negative scores indicating that the area has a lower level of deprivation, and positive scores suggesting the area has a relatively higher level of deprivation. \n\nThe indices are typically ordered from lowest to highest, and grouped into population quintiles. In the 1981, 1991 and 2001 indices, quintile 1 represented the least deprived areas, and quintile 5, represented the most deprived. In 2011, the order was reversed, in line with the ordering of the Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation.\n\nThe low social class component of the 1981 and 1991 Carstairs index was created using the Registrar General's Social Class (later Social Class for Occupation). In 2001, this was superseded by the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC). This meant that the definition of low social class had to be amended to reflect the approximate operational categories. \n\nThe definition of overcrowding was amended between 1981 and 1991, due to the inclusion of kitchens of at least 2 metres wide into the room count in the Census.\n"}
{"id": "26768777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26768777", "title": "Channel 4's Comedy Gala", "text": "Channel 4's Comedy Gala\n\nChannel 4's Comedy Gala is an annual British comedy benefit show organised by Channel 4 in aid of Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital. The gig is filmed live at the O2 Arena in London, and then broadcast later by Channel 4. An inaugural gala was held in 2010, while a second gala was held in 2011. A third Gala aired in May 2012. A fourth Gala was filmed on Saturday 18 May 2013. A fifth Gala was confirmed on 24 February 2014 to be recorded on 16 May 2014 at the O2 Arena.\n\nThe Comedy Gala was first commissioned by Channel 4 Entertainment Commissioning Editor, Syeda Irtizaali. Tickets first went on sale on 12 February 2010 for the live show at the O2 Arena, scheduled for 30 March 2010. With over 25 performers taking part, Channel 4 promoted the first gala as \"the biggest live stand up show in United Kingdom history\", and \"the comedy event of the year\". Hinting that there may be more Channel 4 Comedy Galas in the future, as Jack Dee closed the first show with the line \"we'll see you next year, thank you and goodnight\".\n\nHailing the first gig as a big hit both in terms of fund raising and for viewers, Irtizaali commissioned a second gala again at the O2, with tickets going on sale on 11 March 2011, and the gig scheduled for 24 May 2011.\n\nAll profits from ticket and DVD sales of the Comedy Galas go to Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity. All performers waive their fees for the shows. The first gala raised nearly £1 million, enabling a new anaesthetic room to be built, while the second gala is to raise funds for a new £5m operating theatre. At every Gala during the ad breaks some adverts are hijacked by Alan Carr and/or Jimmy Carr.\n\nThe first gala took place at The O2 on 30 March 2010, and was broadcast on Channel 4 on 5 April 2010. It featured seventeen comedians performing stand-up, as well as a number of others performing live and pre-recorded sketches. Hosted by Alan Carr and Jonathan Ross, it featured extended stand-up sets by Michael McIntyre and Lee Evans.\n\nThe second gala took place at The O2 on 24 May 2011, and broadcast on Channel 4 at 9pm on 10 June 2011. Several acts from the first gala were confirmed to appear in the second.\n\nThe \"Comedy Gala 2012\" was filmed on 11 May 2012 at the O2 Arena. It aired on Channel 4 on 20 May at 9pm starting the show with a live performance from Jessie J and, featuring in order of appearance: Alan Carr, Lee Nelson, Jack Dee, Keith Lemon, Jonathan Ross, Paul Chowdhry, Michael McIntyre, Jimeoin, Josh Widdicombe, Seann Walsh, Jack Whitehall, Andi Osho, Micky Flanagan, Jo Brand, Jon Richardson, Reginald D. Hunter, Lee Evans, Kevin Bridges and Sean Lock.\n\nThe \"Comedy Gala 2013\" was filmed on 18 May 2013 at the O2 Arena. It aired on Friday 7 June 2013 on Channel 4 as a two-hour show.\nPerforming at the gala were Alan Carr, Miranda Hart, Kevin Bridges, Michael McIntyre, Russell Brand, Adam Hills, Warwick Davis, Jason Byrne, Jo Brand, Jonathan Ross, Josh Widdicombe, Jon Richardson, Jack Dee, Lee Evans, Nina Conti, Rhod Gilbert, Paul Chowdhry, Paddy McGuinness, Seann Walsh, Tom Stade, with taped videos from Noel Fielding, Keith Lemon, Terry Mynott and Jack Whitehall.\n\nThe \"Comedy Gala 2014\" was filmed on 16 May 2014 at the O2 Arena. It aired on 5 June 2014 on Channel 4 as a 2-hour and 40 minute show. Performers included Alan Carr, Lee Evans, Jonathan Ross, Adam Hills, Jack Dee, Jo Brand, Michael McIntyre, Jason Byrne, Seann Walsh, Jon Richardson, James Corden, Josh Widdicombe, Kevin Bridges, Sean Lock, Rob Beckett and Paul Chowdhry.\n\nThe \"Comedy Gala 2015\" was filmed on 15 May 2015 at the O2 Arena. It aired on Channel 4 later in the year. Performers included Alan Carr, Lee Evans, Jonathan Ross, Adam Hills, Jack Dee, Jo Brand, Michael McIntyre, Jason Byrne, Seann Walsh, Jon Richardson, Jason Manford, Josh Widdicombe, Kevin Bridges, Katherine Ryan, Aisling Bea, Romesh Ranganathan, Sara Pascoe, Sean Lock, Seann Walsh and Shappi Khorsandi.\n\nThe 2016 Comedy Gala aired on Channel 4 on 29 May and featured Aisling Bea, Alan Carr, Alex Brooker, Kevin Bridges, Nathan Caton, Hal Cruttenden, Rob Beckett, Joel Dommett, John Thomson, Josh Widdicombe, Kerry Godliman, Lee Nelson, Michael McIntyre, Russell Kane, Sean Lock, Shappi Khorsandi, Seann Walsh, Tom Allen, Warwick Davis and musician Jake Bugg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4721386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4721386", "title": "Client Access to Integrated Services and Information", "text": "Client Access to Integrated Services and Information\n\nThe Client Access to Integrated Services and Information (CAISI) project aims to reduce the plight of chronic homelessness by enhancing the integration of care between agencies at the individual and population levels using an electronic information system. As such, the project goals can be summarized as:\n\n\nThe project builds on Seaton House - St. Michael's Hospital SHIFE experience, the Toronto District Health Council Discharge planning Toolkit, and the Homeless Health Reference Group.\n\nThe CAISI project received funding approval in 2004, and officially began operations on April 1, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "13925271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13925271", "title": "Demetech", "text": "Demetech\n\nDemeTECH is a surgical/medical device company located in Miami, Florida, United States.\n\nDemeTECH specializes in the development and manufacture of surgical sutures and other products used in the wound closure and surgery.\n\n"}
{"id": "31493396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31493396", "title": "Department of Health and Human Services (Tasmania)", "text": "Department of Health and Human Services (Tasmania)\n\nThe Tasmanian Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) is the Tasmanian Government department with responsibilities regarding hospitals, ambulances, public housing, primary health and related areas. The department is the largest of all the Tasmanian Government agencies.\n\nThe department is led by its Secretary, Michael Pervan. The Secretary is responsible to the Minister for Health, presently the Honourable Michael Ferguson MP, and the Minister for Human Services and the Minister for Women, presently the Honourable Jacquie Petrusma MP.\n\nThrough the Tasmanian Health Service, the department has responsibility for the public hospital system, and primary and community health care services, including the delivery of health care at the Launceston General Hospital, the Royal Hobart Hospital, Mersey Community Hospital, and the North West Regional Hospital.\n\nThrough a range of other government agencies, the department has responsibility for other government functions delivered by Aboriginal Housing Services Tasmania, Adoptions and Permanency Service, Alcohol and Drug Service, Ambulance Tasmania, Correctional Primary Health Service, Disability and Community Services, Family Violence Counselling and Support Service, Housing Tasmania, Mental Health Services, Oral Health Services Tasmania, Orthotic and Prosthetic Service, Palliative Care Service, Pharmaceutical Services, Public and Environmental Health, Sexual Health Service Tasmania, Tasmanian Clinical Genetics Service, Tasmanian Infection Prevention and Control Unit, W P Holman Clinic, and the Youth Justice Services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11718897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11718897", "title": "Dignitas (Swiss non-profit organisation)", "text": "Dignitas (Swiss non-profit organisation)\n\nDignitas is a Swiss non-profit members' society providing assisted/accompanied suicide to those members of the organisation who suffer from terminal illness and/or severe physical and/or mental illnesses, supported by (of the organization independent) qualified Swiss doctors. They have assisted over 2,100 people die at home within Switzerland and at Dignitas' house/flat near Zürich. Additionally, they do advisory work on palliative care, health care advance directive and suicide attempt prevention, and they have been leading and supporting numerous court cases and legislation projects for right-to-die laws around the world. \n\nMembers of Dignitas who wish for an assisted suicide have to be of sound judgement, themselves able to do the last act which brings about death, and submit a formal request including a letter explaining their wish to die and most of all medical reports showing diagnosis and treatments tried. For people with severe psychiatric illnesses, additionally, an in-depth medical report prepared by a psychiatrist that establishes the patient's condition, is required as per a Swiss Supreme Court decision.\n\nDignitas was founded 17 May 1998 by Ludwig Minelli, a Swiss lawyer specialising in human rights law. Swiss laws provide that assistance to suicide is legal as long as it is not motivated by selfish motives. \n\nThe person who wishes to die meets several Dignitas personnel, in addition to an independent medical doctor, for a private consultation. The independent doctor assesses the evidence provided by the patient in advance and is met on two separate occasions, with a time gap between each of the consultations. Legally admissible proof that the person wishes to die is also created, in the form of a signed affidavit, countersigned by independent witnesses. In cases where a person is physically unable to sign a document, a short video film of the person is made in which they are asked to confirm their identity, that they wish to die, and that their decision is made of their own free will, without any form of persuasion / coercion. This evidence of informed consent remains private and is preserved only for use in any possible legal dispute.\n\nFinally, a few minutes before the lethal overdose is provided, the person is once again reminded that taking the overdose will surely kill them. Additionally, they are asked several times whether they want to proceed, or take some time to consider the matter further. This gives the person the opportunity to stop the process at any time. However, if at this point the person states that they are determined to proceed, a lethal overdose is provided and ingested.\n\nIn general, Dignitas uses the following protocol to assist suicides: an oral dose of an antiemetic drug, followed approximately half an hour later by a lethal overdose of 15 grams of powdered pentobarbital dissolved in a glass of water. If necessary, the drugs can be ingested via a drinking straw. The pentobarbital overdose depresses the central nervous system, causing the person to become drowsy and fall asleep within 3–5 minutes of drinking it. Anaesthesia progresses to coma and later, as the person's breathing becomes more shallow, followed by respiratory arrest and death, which occurs within 30–40 minutes of ingesting the pentobarbital.\n\nExceptionally, in four cases in 2008, Dignitas used breathing helium gas as a suicide method instead of a pentobarbital overdose. \nThe medical supervision was still observed, however, the prescription controlled drugs avoided, which reduced the risk of the medical board / authorities harassing the medical doctor giving a \"green light\" for the accompanied suicide.\n\nIn two referendums on 15 May 2011, voters in the Canton of Zürich overwhelmingly rejected calls to ban assisted suicide or to outlaw the practice for non-residents. Out of more than 278,000 ballots cast, the initiative to ban assisted suicide was rejected by 85 per cent of voters and the initiative to outlaw it for non-residents was turned down by 78 per cent.\n\nLudwig Minelli said in an interview in March 2008 that Dignitas had assisted 840 people to die, 60% of them Germans. By 2010, that number had exceeded a thousand assisted suicides.\n\nMost people contacting Dignitas do not plan to die but need insurance in case their illness becomes intolerable. Of those who receive the so-called \"provisional green light\", 70% never return to Dignitas.\n\n21% of people receiving assisted suicide in Dignitas do not have a terminal or progressive illness, but rather \"weariness of life\".\n\nAccording to the official Dignitas website, as of 2017 Dignitas charges its patients 7,000 Swiss Francs (approx. £5,180 / $7,980) for preparation and suicide assistance, or 10,500 Swiss Francs (approx. £7,770 / $11,970) in case of taking over family duties, including funerals, medical costs and official fees. Dignitas has been known to waive certain costs where there is hardship. Under Swiss Law, Dignitas operates as a non-profit organization, but does not open its finances to the public, which has elicited criticism from some quarters.\n\nAlthough mainly Germans turn to Dignitas for so called 'assisted suicide', as of August 2015, approximately 300 British citizens have travelled to Switzerland from the UK to die at one of Dignitas' rented apartments in Zürich.\n\nSoraya Wernli (a nurse employed by Dignitas for two-and-a-half years, until March 2005), accused the organization of being a 'production line of death concerned only with profits'. Wernli claimed many wealthy and vulnerable people bequeathed \"vast sums\" to Minelli in addition to standard fees and some were not terminally ill. She also complained some patients died in pain, and resigned after an alleged incident in which a new type of machine left a client suffering for 70 hours. Dignitas denied all allegations and pointed out that Wernli left Dignitas several years ago. Minelli said that \"If the state prosecutors feel I’m making myself rich they should start legal proceedings.\"\n\nDignitas-founder Ludwig Minelli describes the difficulties that Dignitas has faced over the years. In Sept 2007, it was evicted, blocked or locked out of three flats, and so Mr Minelli offered assisted suicide in his private house. This, however, was then prohibited by the local council. In October 2007, Dignitas was again prevented from working in a private house by the local council and refused rooms on an industrial site. In December 2007, an interim judgment prevented Dignitas from working in a building next to a busy brothel. The media frenzy led to several people offering Dignitas flats or houses, of which one turned out to be suitable. Since 2009, Dignitas has a house at an undisclosed location where accompanied suicide for people from abroad has taken place.\n\nIn certain right-to-die organisations, an age restriction is in place for potential patients, so as to prevent young people from using their services.\n\nIn April 2010, private divers found a group of over 60 cremation urns in Lake Zürich. Each of the urns bore the logo of the Zürich Nordheim crematorium also used by Dignitas. Soraya Wernli, a former employee, had told \"The Times\" 18 months previously that Dignitas had dumped at least 300 urns in the lake. She claimed that Minelli dumped them there himself, but later asked his daughter and another member of staff to do it. In 2008, allegedly two members of Dignitas were caught trying to pour the ashes of 20 dead people into the\nlake. However, it was never established whether Dignitas had anything to do with it and no charges were taken. In Switzerland, it is not against the law to scatter cremation ashes out into nature.\n\nIn 2008, the documentary film \"Right to Die?\" was broadcast on Sky Real Lives (rebroadcast on PBS Frontline in March 2010 as \"The Suicide Tourist\"). Directed by Oscar-winning Canadian John Zaritsky, it depicts the assisted suicide of several people who have gone to Switzerland to end their lives. It includes the story of Craig Ewert, a 59-year-old retired university professor who suffered from a motor neurone disease. Ewert traveled to Switzerland where he was assisted by the Dignitas NGO. The documentary shows him passing away with Mary, his wife of 37 years, at his side. It was shown on the Swiss television network SF1 and is available as a web movie on the Dignitas website.\n\nThe BBC produced a film titled \"A Short Stay in Switzerland\" telling the story of Dr Anne Turner, who made the journey to the Dignitas assisted suicide clinic. On January 24, 2006, the day before her 67th birthday, she ended her life. The film was shown on BBC1 on January 25, 2009.\n\nBritish maestro Sir Edward Downes, who conducted the BBC Philharmonic and the Royal Opera but struggled in recent years (but was not terminally ill) as his hearing and sight failed, died with his wife, who had terminal cancer, at an assisted suicide clinic in Switzerland in July 2009. He was 85 and she was 74.\n\nFrench lesbian theorist and translator Michele Causse chose to die on her birthday, July 29, 2010, in association with Dignitas.\n\nOn June 13, 2011, BBC Two aired a documentary titled \"\", featuring author and Alzheimer's disease sufferer Sir Terry Pratchett guiding viewers through an assisted suicide which took place at Dignitas facilities in Switzerland. Peter Smedley, a British hotelier and millionaire, and his wife Christine allowed for Pratchett to film Smedley's deliberate consumption of prepared barbiturate in a glass in order to kill himself as Christine comforted Smedley in his demise. The documentary received a highly polarized reaction in the United Kingdom, with much praise for the programme as \"brave\", \"sensitive\" and \"important\" whilst it also gathered accusations of \"pro-death\" bias from anti-euthanasia pressure groups and of encouraging the view that disability was a good reason for killing from disability groups.\n\nDignitas continued to be presented in the media as a political stance on the right to die. BBC featured an article regarding the death of UK citizen Jeffrey Spector, a businessman who decided to travel to Switzerland to undergo assisted suicide through Dignitas for an inoperable tumour which most likely would have caused paralysis later on in its development. This situation reignited the debate revolving around the morality of assisted suicides in certain dilemmas, and incited current stances concerning euthanasia. Former Lord Chancellor Lord Falconer said he would \"attempt to reintroduce a bill that would allow assisted dying in the UK\".\n\nBoth the book \"Me Before You\" and the movie discuss the organization as it serves a vital function in both the main plot and the characters' lives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14311050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14311050", "title": "Estrogen-related receptor gamma", "text": "Estrogen-related receptor gamma\n\nEstrogen-related receptor gamma (ERR-gamma), also known as NR3B3 (nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group B, member 3), is a nuclear receptor that in humans is encoded by the ESRRG (EStrogen Related Receptor Gamma) gene. It behaves as a constitutive activator of transcription.\n\nThis protein is a member of nuclear hormone receptor family of steroid hormone receptors. No physiological activating ligand is known for this orphan receptor, but 4-hydroxytamoxifen and diethylstilbestrol act as inverse agonists and deactivate ESRRG. It also seems to be the target of bisphenol A (see below).\n\nThere is evidence that bisphenol A functions as an endocrine disruptor by binding strongly to ERR-γ. BPA as well as its nitrated and chlorinated metabolites seems to binds strongly to ERR-γ (dissociation constant = 5.5 nM), but not to the estrogen receptor (ER)., BPA binding to ERR-γ preserves its basal constitutive activity. It can also protect it from deactivation from the selective estrogen receptor modulator 4-hydroxytamoxifen.\n\nDifferent expression of ERR-γ in different parts of the body may account for variations in bisphenol A effects. For instance, ERR-γ has been found in high concentration in the placenta, explaining reports of high bisphenol A accumulation there.\n\n"}
{"id": "8725668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8725668", "title": "Eucharius Rösslin", "text": "Eucharius Rösslin\n\nEucharius Rösslin (Roslin, Rößlin), sometimes known as Eucharius Rhodion, (c. 1470 – 1526) was a German physician who in 1513 authored a book about childbirth called \"Der Rosengarten\" (The Rose Garden), which became a standard medical text for midwives.\n\nRösslin was an apothecary at Freiburg before being elected physician to the city of Frankfurt on Main in 1506. He served as physician to the city of Worms in the service of Katherine, wife of Henry IV, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg. While examining and supervising the city's midwives, he found their practice of midwifery to be careless and substandard, leading to high rates of infant mortality. As a result, he wrote his book in German, to make it accessible, and published it in the then-German city of Strasbourg. He included in it engravings by Martin Caldenbach, a pupil of Albrecht Dürer. Thereby \"Der Rosengarten\" gave for the first time printed illustrations of the birthing chair, the lying-in chamber, and the positions of the fetus in utero.\n\nAlongside his direct observation of midwifery at Worms, Rösslin incorporated information gleaned from writers of antiquity such as Muscio and Soranus of Ephesus. In the introductory prologue to the text, written in verse, Rosslin emphasizes the importance of the role of men in reproduction and blames midwives who \"through neglect and oversight... destroy children far and wide.\" He threatens midwives with a warning that God will call them to account. \"And since no midwife that I've asked / Could tell me anything of her task / I'm left to my medical education.\"\n\nThe book was an immediate success. It then appeared in English in 1540 as \"The Birth of Mankind\". By the mid-16th century, it had been translated into all the main European languages and had gone through numerous editions.\n\nRösslin returned to his original job in Frankfurt in 1517, where he remained until his death in 1526. \n\nHis son, Eucharius Rösslin the Younger, succeeded his father as town physician. He wrote a book on minerals and mineral use, and published a Latin translation of his father's book as \"De partu Hominis\" in 1532.\n\nAnd when the time of labour is come, in the same stoole ought to be put many clothes or crows in the backe of it, the which the midwife may remove from one side to another, according as necessity shall require. The Midwife her selfe shall sit before the labouring woman, and shall diligently observe and waite, how much, and after what meanes the child sitrreth itselfe: also shall with hands, first anoynted with the oyle of almonds or the oyle of those white lillies, rule and direct everything as shall seeme best.\n\n"}
{"id": "17968004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17968004", "title": "European Federation for Immunogenetics", "text": "European Federation for Immunogenetics\n\nThe EFI — European Federation for Immunogenetics — is the European association of people with interests in the field of immunogenetics.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, members of the Committee created a more formal organisation and the organisation was made official in the mid-1980s. It was initiated to give scientists an opportunity to collaborate with one another, and to ensure that their findings were accurate and of a high quality.\nEFI sets a series of standards for laboratories to adhere to and works to create relationships with other organisations worldwide who carry out similar work.\n\nThere are now over 200 laboratories accredited by EFI. These laboratories are found not only in Europe, but also in Israel, South Africa and Mexico and have met the criteria that has been set out by EFI. The laboratories undergo regular inspections to ensure that they are continuing to follow the standards and that they are producing the high quality work expected.\n\nThere are various committees within EFI, including a Standards and Quality Assurance, Accreditation, Education and Scientific. These ensure that the high standards set out by the Federation are adhered to.\n\nThe current president for EFI is E. Naumova.\n\nThere are other Immunogenetic Societies worldwide. These include ASEATTA, ASHI, BSHI. and DGI.\n"}
{"id": "34093212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34093212", "title": "Faith and Health: Psychological Perspectives", "text": "Faith and Health: Psychological Perspectives\n\nFaith and Health: Psychological Perspectives is a book of scientific psychology on the relationship between religious faith and health. Edited by Thomas G. Plante and Allen C. Sherman, the book was published in the United States in 2001.\n\nThe book includes 16 chapters divided among four major parts that focus on general population outcomes (such as impacts on longevity), outcomes in special populations such as medical patients or adolescents, clinical implications, and overall criticisms and reflections.\n\n\"Faith and Health\" has been reviewed in several professional journals, including \"Contemporary Psychology,\"\n\"Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease\",\nand others.\n\n\"Faith and Health\" contains 16 chapters written by various psychological or biomedical researchers, and some of them are notable. Chapter titles and authors are listed in the table (\"below, at right\"). After an introductory chapter, the remaining 15 chapters are divided into four major parts.\n\nThe book's first part focuses on the faith/health relation in the general population. Chapter 2 by Carl E. Thoresen and his colleagues describes the existing empirical evidence, and discusses many methodological issues. The authors view the evidence as indicating that religious/spiritual factors \"appear to be associated with physical, mental, and overall health, but the lack of adequate controls and designs in many studies has seriously limited our understanding of these relationships.\" The authors also note methodological challenges related to the need for more studies that follow participants over time, rather than observing them only once; the need to recognize that if religion and spirituality operate \"through\" other factors, they may be very influential but remain unrecognized, because they do not explain \"unique variance\"; and the need for more \"experimental\" studies. The authors also present a \"working model... that tries to capture several factors that may be involved in the pathways connecting [religious/spiritual] factors with health,\" and highlight four studies that investigated religion/spirituality and health relationships using \"state-of-the-art epidemiological designs\"\nIn chapter 3, Michael McCullough reviewed evidence for relations between religious involvement and mortality. McCullough describes results of a meta-analysis of 42 independent estimates of the association between religious involvement and length of life, reporting that \"religious people had, on average, 29% higher odds of survival during any follow-up period than did less religious people\" Other chapters looked at religion and health in late adulthood, and at the role of forgiveness and unforgiveness. A final chapter discussed how religiousness and spirituality is assessed in health research.\n\nThe second part focuses on faith and health in special populations. These include adolescents who are at risk for abusing tobacco and alcohol, as well as survivors and sufferer from cancer and HIV/AIDS. The section also discusses how religious faith is related to mental health outcomes, such as well-being, depression, anxiety, substance abuse, eating disorders, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorders. It concluded that \"Most research examining the relationship between religion and spirituality and mental health outcomes shows positive associations.\"\n\nPart three addresses implications of the faith/health relationships for the clinic. Chapters discuss implications for psychotherapy, rehabilitation medicine. A chapter by Tan and Dong offers dangers and guidelines for implementing spiritually-informed interventions that may include components such as meditation, forgiveness, prayer, solitude, the laying on of hands, fellowship, and worship, observing that \"as health care providers implement religiously or spiritually oriented interventions, it is crucial that they do so with the utmost ethical caution and professional care.\"\n\nThe fourth part contains commentaries on the previous chapters and on the literature. Timothy Smith wrote that \"it is clear that matters of religion and spirituality are relevant to each of the foci of health psychology... [and] the emergence of this topic [of faith and health] seems long overdue.\" He also cautioned that many results are \"preliminary.\"\nA chapter by Richard Sloan and his colleagues argued that no compelling evidence links religion and health, and that \"concerns of patients about religion and health are best addressed by clergy, to whom referrals can readily be made.\" A concluding chapter by the editors argued that\n\nThe interface between religion, spirituality, and health is an extraordinarily rich area for scientific investigation. For many, a concern with the sacred or transcendent goes to the heart of what it means to be human. Health professionals are beginning to appreciate the possibility that spiritual commitment may have relevance beyond the pew and the pulpit... I. the quest [to understand these issues] should be an exciting and provocative one.\nThe book also contains a 14-page index.\n\nReviews have appeared in \"Contemporary Psychology\", the \"Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease,\" \"Families, Systems, & Health\", and the \"Journal of Health Psychology\".\n\nIn \"Contemporary Psychology\", Richards and O'Grady wrote that \"\"Faith and Health\" takes us well beyond Freud's, Watson's, Skinner's, and Ellis's oversimplified, negative views of religion and spirituality... [and] sets a high standard of methodological rigor, openness, and balance.\"\n\nIn the \"Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease\", Boehnlein wrote that the editors' \"primary focus, and stated goal, is to assess what is known about the relationship between health outcomes and faith [and they] are largely successful in achieving this goal. \" He also wrote that because it reviews so much quantitative research, the book is geared more towards researchers than towards clinicians, although there are a few chapters devoted to psychotherapy and rehabilitation.\n\nIn \"Families, Systems, & Health\", King wrote that their \"numerous publications\" attest to the editors' expertise in faith/health relations, and that the book is a \"comprehensive look at research.\" He wrote that he found \"the book very useful\nand will use it in both my practice and teaching... I plan to add a section on couples and health to my couples therapy class — an omission I recognized upon reading this informative book.\"\n\nIn the \"Journal of Health Psychology\", Martin wrote that the book was \"an unusually cohesive\ncollection of chapters that reviews current research endeavors, recent findings and critical controversies in this rapidly changing field,\" and would make a \"very nice text for a graduate-level seminar.\" Three \"admirable\" strengths include representative contributions by top researchers, a section on clinical application, and two solid methodological critiques that \"lay out a framework for addressing problems that, left dormant, would fatally harm the discipline.\" Martin stated that one weakness was a lack of clear delineation of how definitions of spirituality and religion in particular chapters \"overlap (or fail to) with similar definitions\" of the constructs in other chapters. Another weakness was a lack of large-scale theoretical frameworks, although two chapters (2 and 5) provide \"insightful discussion and examples of how [theoretical modeling] might be approached.\"\n\nThe published book also contained praise for the book by Norman Anderson, Kenneth I. Pargament, David M. Wulff, and Peter Salovey.\n\n"}
{"id": "48535367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48535367", "title": "Federal Coal Mine Safety Act of 1952", "text": "Federal Coal Mine Safety Act of 1952\n\nThe Federal Coal Mine Safety Act of 1952 is a U.S. law authorizing the federal government to conduct annual inspections of underground coal mines with more than 15 workers, and gave the United States Bureau of Mines the authority to shut down a mine in cases of \"imminent danger.\" The Act authorized the assessment of civil penalties against mine operators for failing to comply with an order to shut down (a \"withdrawal order\") or for refusing to give inspectors access to mine property. The law did not authorize monetary penalties for noncompliance with the safety provisions. In 1966, Congress extended coverage to all underground coal mines.\n\nThe Act made ventilation mandatory in mines so as to limit the levels of methane in the air. It also required mine walls to be \"dusted\" with a limestone to limit the levels of coal dust.\n\nPassage of the law responded to a 1951 mine explosion which killed 111 miners in Illinois. President Truman signed the law on July 16, 1952.\n\nMost regulation of mines was left to the U.S. states, and the Bureau of Mines or MSHA would get involved if either there were a disaster or a state agency request. Legislators apparently said that the federal 1952 law was oriented toward addressing the infrequent disasters in which five or more miners died, not preventing more common causes of deaths in mines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32469489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32469489", "title": "Gail Wilensky", "text": "Gail Wilensky\n\nGail R. Wilensky (born June 14, 1943) is an American health economist who has worked for Republican administrations and candidacies.\n\nWilensky headed Medicare under the first president Bush and works at Project HOPE. She received an honorary degree from New York Institute of Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "47939619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47939619", "title": "George Samuel Hurst", "text": "George Samuel Hurst\n\nGeorge Samuel Hurst (13 October 1927 – 4 July 2010) was a health physicist, scientist, inventor, educator and innovator. He developed the omnipresent touchscreen technology and single atom theory. Hurst spent his career at Oak Ridge National Laboratory where he was involved with: neutron survey meters; alpha survey meters; ionizing radiation dosimetry; gas ionization studies; Nevada Test Site gamma and neutron radiation measurements; vacuum ultraviolet (VUV) radiation and the Jesse effect; time-of-flight investigations; electron swarm measurements; study of atomic bomb survivors from Hiroshima and Nagasaki; radiation accident investigations; radiation dosimetry projects for NASA; microdosimetry; one-atom detection and single atom detection; solar neutrino experiments; magnetic monopole detectors; resonance ionization spectroscopy (RIS); and, sputter-initiated resonance ionization spectroscopy (SIRIS).\n\nHurst was born on 13 October 1927 in the rural town of Ponza, Bell County, Kentucky located near Pineville, Kentucky. His father was James H. Hurst and mother was Myrtle Wright Hurst. As a boy, he had a keen interest in Thomas Edison. Hurst grew up on the family farm and came from a large family with two brothers and two sisters. In 2010, he died of a brain aneurism and was buried at Oak Ridge Memorial Park.\n\nHurst attended high school at Bell County High School in Pineville, Kentucky. At the age of 15, he enrolled in Berea College. In 1947, Hurst received a B.A. degree in physics and a minor in mathematics from Berea College. He attended the University of Kentucky and graduated in 1948 with the M.S. degree in physics. During registration at UK, he met Rufus Ritchie. Ritchie became a longtime friend and the two worked on several projects together. After graduation, they both went to ORNL. \nIn 1959, Hurst was awarded a Ph.D. in physics from the University of Tennessee.\n\nIn 1948, Hurst was recruited by Karl Z. Morgan and landed a research position at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) in the Health Physics Division. His starting salary was $325 per month. He made significant contributions in the development of radiation detectors and instrumentation, neutron dosimetry and spectroscopy, and field sample analysis. While working at Oak Ridge, he earned a PhD in physics from the University of Tennessee in 1959. In 1966, Hurst accepted a position at the University of Kentucky as Professor of Physics.\n\nFrom 1948 to 1950, Hurst worked with Ritchie to develop a fast neutron survey meter and fast neutron dosimetry. The fast neutron dosimetry work continued throughout the 1950s with the added interest in tissue dose. In 1952, the team of Hurst, D.J. Knowles and C. Yochem worked to develop a thermal neutron survey instrument. Hurst and F.M. Glass developed a method of pulse integration by utilizing the binary scaling unit. Hurst explored fast neutron dosimetry and tissue-equivalent phantoms. His team that included J.A. Harter, P.N. Hensley and W.A. Mills studied neutron flux and tissue dose with fission threshold detectors.\nAround 1955, Hurst teamed with A.C. Upton, F.P. Conte and W.A. Mills to look at the relative biological effectiveness (RBE) that involved mixed radiation fields for acute lethality in various animal models.\nAdditional studies with A.C. Upton, K.W. Christenberry, G.S. Melville, and J. Furth utilized mixed radiation fields to produce lens opacity in various animal models. In 1956 and again in 1980, Hurst utilized threshold detectors to measure neutron spectra in order to determine tissue dose.\nIn 1961, Hurst led a group that performed measurements of the absorbed dose of neutrons, and of mixed radiation field of neutrons and gamma rays. This resulted in the publication of Handbook 75 for the National Bureau of Standards.\n\nIn 1950, Hurst and his team developed a portable alpha survey meter.\n\nIn 1953, an interest in the ion pair energy production from 5 MeV alpha particles led to nearly 2 decades of research, during which time Hurst studied alpha particle ionizations and excitations in various gases and gas mixtures.\n\nHurst and the team of L.J. Deal and H.H. Rossi performed gamma and neutron radiation measurements at the Nevada Test Site during Operation Upshot–Knothole for the Atomic Energy Commission. For Operation PLUMBBOB, Hurst was again asked to participate along with Ritchie at the Nevada Test Site to collect radiation dosimetry data for human exposures during the tests.\n\nThe Jesse effect, named after William P. Jesse, may best be described as the increase in ionization produced in a gas by alpha, beta, or gamma ionizing radiations when a small concentration of a gas with a lower ionization potential is present. Hurst utilized noble gases to examine vacuum ultraviolet radiation (VUV) and the Jesse effect. For these efforts, Hurst sought the assistance of Thurmond E. Stewart, James E. Parks, H. Lee Weidner, M. Payne and C. Klots. Hurst performed additional VUV studies separately on Helium, Argon, and Krypton.\n\nIn the 1960s, Hurst along with L.B. O'Kelly, E.B. Wagner, J.A. Stockdale, James E. Parks, and F.J. Davis investigated time-of-flight electron transport in gases. The group utilized ethylene, water vapor and hydrogen to study and determine time-of-flight electron diffusion coefficients and electron drift velocities for these gases. Hurst led efforts to investigate time-of-flight of electron transport in atomic and molecular gases.\n\nIn the mid 1960s, Hurst pursued researches that involved electron swarm measurement, swarm‐beam techniques and swarm drift to determine electron capture cross sections in heavy water, chlorobenzene, bromobenzene, ethylene and ethylene mixtures.\n\nIn the 1950s, Hurst went to Japan with colleagues and students Rufus Ritchie, Nello Pace, and Robert E. Smith to conduct studies for the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission. The team studied the delayed and latent effects with an emphasis on the mortality and morbidity rates among the atomic bomb survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\n\nThe expertise and experience of Hurst were often called upon for matters that involved radiation accidents.\n\nThe IAEA asked for and received assistance from Hurst to investigate the Vinča reactor criticality accident that occurred on 15 October 1958 at Vinča, Yugoslavia.\n\nIn 1965, Hurst prepared a special publication for NASA for radiation dosimetry applications to be utilized for data collection that involved radiation in space. Then in 1986, a technical report was prepared for NASA that looked at the feasibility of a solar neutrino experiment.\n\n\n\nIn the 1980s, Hurst was called upon by NASA to further explore solar neutrinos.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHurst has founded or co-founded five businesses:\n"}
{"id": "19227237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19227237", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Haiti", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Haiti\n\nWith an estimated 150,000 people living with HIV/AIDS in 2016 (or an approximately 2.1 percent prevalence rate among adults aged 15–49), Haiti has the most overall cases of HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean and its HIV prevalence rates among the highest percentage-wise in the region. There are many risk factors groups for HIV infection in Haiti, with the most common ones including lower socioeconomic status, lower educational levels, risky behavior, and lower levels of awareness regarding HIV and its transmission. However, HIV prevalence in Haiti is largely dropping as a result of a strong AIDS/HIV educational program, support from non-governmental organizations and private donors, as well as a strong healthcare system supported by UNAIDS. Part of the success of Haiti's HIV healthcare system lies in the governmental commitment to the issue, which alongside the support of donations from the Global Fund and President's Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), allows the nation to prioritize the issue. Despite the extreme poverty afflicting a large Haitian population, the severe economic impact HIV has on the nation, and the controversy surrounding how the virus spread to Haiti and the United States, Haiti is on the path to provide universal treatment, with other developing nations emulating its AIDS treatment system.\n\nAIDS in Haitians was first recognized in 34 Haitians living in the United States in 1982, and in the same year eleven individuals in Haiti were suspected to be HIV infected. Since the majority of these individuals did not fall into the classic risk factor groups, Haitians were classified as a separate risk factor group, causing damage to Haiti's image and economy and affecting tourism. In the same year, the Haitian Study Group on Kaposi's Sarcoma and Opportunistic Infections (GHESKIO) was formed to study the new epidemic. GHESKIO used retrospective diagnosis to conclude that from 1979 to 1982, there were 61 cases of AIDS in Haiti. Through various studies and analyses, GHESKIO concluded that the risk factors identified in the 61 individuals were no different to those in other countries, with the primary risk factor being the fact that most of the patients lived in the suburb of Carrefour where prostitution was prevalent. The stigmatization of Haiti, however, continued, and during the presidency of Jean-Claude Duvalier, it was illegal to mention AIDS/HIV in Haiti. From 1983 to 1987, the virus spread quickly through the population mostly through heterosexual sex, as HIV infected cases attributed to homosexuals or bisexuals went down from 50% to less than 1%. In a 1985 to 2000 study, the virus spread twice as fast in developed nations prior to the use of antiretrovirals, as malnutrition, infectious communities, and active tuberculosis were all prevalent in Haiti. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the first democratically elected President of Haiti, was the first Haitian president to include HIV/AIDS into his platform for his 2001–2004 presidency and initiated governmental policies to ensure the blood supply remains uncontaminated and to prevent and treat the virus amongst the population.\n\nIn Haiti, the three groups where HIV/AIDS is most prevalent are men who have sex with men, sex workers, and prisoners, with prevalence rates of 18.2, 8.4, and 4.3 respectively. As opposed to the United States, intravenous drug use in Haiti was more rare and the blood supply was not initially affected by HIV infected individuals. As such, intravenous drug users and hemophiliacs were never major risk factor groups in Haiti since the start of the epidemic.\n\nAs of 2017, UNAIDS, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, reports that HIV in Haiti is most prevalent among adults aged 15 to 49 and is primarily transmitted through heterosexual contact and mother-to-infant transmission.\n\nThe recent declines in HIV infection rates are most notable in urban areas, and have been attributed to significant behavioral changes, including decreased number of partners, decreased sexual debut, and increased condom use. Other explanations for the recent trends include AIDS-related mortality and improvements made in blood safety early in the epidemic. However, continued political instability, high internal migration rates, high prevalence of sexually transmitted infections, and weakened health and social services persist as factors with potential negative impacts on the epidemic.\n\nAccording to a 2010 study, one major risk factor for HIV infection in Haiti, especially in women, is lower socioeconomic status. In rural Haitian populations where education levels for women are low and many women are economically dependent on their husbands, a correlation between the stability of the occupation of the husband and HIV prevalence in the wives is observed. Women whose husbands are market vendors or mechanics are at a higher risk of HIV infection. On the contrary, the wives of farmers, a more stable occupation, have a 60% lower risk of HIV infection. Other indicators of low socioeconomic status, like the use of charcoal for cooking and food insecurity also show correlation with higher HIV infection rates in women. The study stipulates that low socioeconomic status and high rates of HIV infection may be connected to the use of transactional sex as an economic survival strategy, a behavior shown in a related South African study to increase HIV infection rates by 1.5 times. Similar trends from related studies have also been seen in other developing nations with gender disparities, such as Malawi, Rwanda, Kenya, Ghana, Democratic Republic of Congo, Zambia, and Uganda.\n\nAnother vulnerable group is adolescents and young adults. For females, risk factor groups include those who have low levels of education, live away from their parents, have been married, or have had a child. For males, factors indicative of HIV infection are intravenous drug use and sexual debut with an unknown individual. For both genders, young adults who are less aware of HIV and its transmission through risky behavior are more likely to be infected, and amongst females, those who talked more openly about HIV infection and testing were less likely to be infected. Finally, having sexual contact with unfaithful partners, having an STI, especially syphilis, and not using condoms are all additional risk factors that affect both genders.\n\nOn the national level, HIV causes damage to the Haitian economy because the individuals most affected by the epidemic are the young adults that contribute the most to the country's economy. At the start of the epidemic, Haiti's tourism and export industries suffered when Haitians were classified as an HIV risk group. According to Jean Pape, the head of the largest Haitian HIV research center, Haitian products could no longer be sold in the US and tourism, which was the basis of the Haitian economy, declined drastically. With 54% of the Haiti economy based on the service and tourism sector, HIV further weakened Haiti's already struggling economy.\n\nOn a household level, HIV causes significant economic strain to the family of infected individuals. HIV infection in a parent can lead to the loss of one source of income which in turn leads to malnutrition, lack of access to education for the children, and increased risk of child labor. The cost of healthcare is another burden on the family. From a 1997 study involving 600 households from Côte d'Ivoire, Burundi, and Haiti, households with at least one HIV infected family member spent nearly twice the amount on healthcare (around 10.6%) compared to families without HIV infected individuals, decreasing household consumption in other areas. The HIV treatment also on average took up 80% of the entire family's healthcare budget. Even after the death of the HIV infected individual, the household never completely returned to its original level of consumption.\n\nNearly 75% of HIV treatment in Haiti is sponsored and overseen by the NGOs Partners In Health and Haitian Study Group on Kaposi’s Sarcoma and Opportunistic Infections (GHESKIO) in collaboration with the Haitian Ministry of Health. Alongside them, the Joint United Nations Team on AIDS (Joint Team) in Haiti also helps provide the resources to tackle HIV through prevention, treatment, and testing, accelerating the nationwide HIV response. As of 2016, around 55% of HIV positive Haitians received antiretroviral therapy.\n\nPrior to the efforts to eliminate vertical transmission of HIV, around 27% of babies born to HIV infected mothers in Haiti contracted the virus from their mothers through breast milk. As a preventative measure, GHESKIO and the Ministry of Health set up national guidelines for HIV infected mothers and newborn babies to receive doses of zidovudine. Since 2003, Haiti has altered its guidelines to allow triple drug ART for pregnant HIV infected women, treatments for existing opportunistic infections, and counseling on the use of formula feed instead of breast milk to lower transmission rates. Since the use of triple therapy, HIV transmission rates from mother to child for those on triple drug ART has decreased to around 1.9%, while the transmission rates among all pregnant women treated for HIV in any form has dropped to 9.2%, both of which are significant decreases from the initial 27% vertical transmission. The Joint Team and UNICEF also provides manuals on preventing mother to child transmission of HIV and offers prenatal and postpartum counseling services to HIV infected mothers to stem vertical transmission in Haiti. However, further educational efforts are necessary as only around 40% of Haitian HIV infected mothers attend these counseling services, and an even smaller amount get tested for HIV prior to childbirth. Around 80% of Haitians recognize that the virus can be transmitted vertically, however, the majority of Haitians do not know that treatment of both the mother and child in the weeks before and after childbirth can greatly decrease the risk of infection in the baby. This coupled with the fact that around 80% of childbirth in Haiti takes place at home instead of in a hospital necessitates that further connection of HIV infected individuals with the health networks in Haiti is essential to stem vertical transmission.\n\nIn 1985, Paul Farmer and his colleagues created a clinic in the Central Plateau of Haiti to serve those displaced by the creation of a hydroelectric dam. The first case of HIV recorded at this clinic was in 1986. In 1987, Farmer spearheaded the effort that lead to the founding of Partners in Health. After a 1994 paper detailing the effects of AZT on lowering the rates of transmission from mother to child, the HIV clinic began offering HIV testing and antiretroviral therapy to pregnant mothers, leading to a sharp decline of cases of mother to child transmission. Starting in 1997, the clinic made post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) available to women who suffered from rape and HIV health workers who had occupation injuries. In late 1998, individuals with long term severe opportunistic infections were offered antiretroviral therapy as opposed to only being allowed to treat their symptoms for free. For those infected with the more life-threatening tuberculosis, anti-tuberculous therapy was prioritized over ART. Partners in Health's success largely comes from the directly observed therapy that is given to the patients, through health care workers known as accompagnateurs. Accompagnateurs help the therapy process by making sure the pills are taken on time, answering questions and concerns, and offering moral support to patients and their families. The clinic also assists the family by offering social services such as payment of tuition and highly attended meetings for patients to stay involved in the treatment process. The success of the program in Haiti served as a model to other developing nations that, despite high unemployment, low GDP per capita, and high HIV prevalence, a nation can have a successful HIV treatment program, regardless of urbanization and wealth.\n\nHIV prevention has been brought about, especially in the younger generation, through education and the spreading of awareness of safe sex practices and condom use. The Joint Team, in 2016, has collaborated with the Ministry of Education to create health clubs and programs in 100 schools as well as trained 566 educators, supplied over a million condoms, hosted more than 7000 HIV tests, and referred more than 80% of infected individuals from those tests to seek treatment. UNICEF also sponsored efforts to create a video series and a Facebook page targeted towards the 15–35 age group to spread awareness about the risks of HIV and measures to prevent transmission.\n\nAfter the devastation caused by the 2010 Haitian Earthquake, Haiti's HIV treatment system was affected greatly. Estimates by the Haitian government indicate that around 40% of the initial 24,000 Haitians lost access to antiretrovirals after the earthquake. HIV positive individuals displaced due to the earthquake often live in substandard conditions in tent cities, decreasing their immunity and increasing their susceptibility to infection or progressing to AIDS. The large concentration of HIV positive individuals in confined tent cities also increases the risk of HIV transmission within the smaller community of individuals. However, the overall structure of the HIV treatment system has largely remained intact and the majority of HIV infected patients continue to receive access to antiviral therapy while the nation rebuilds the rest of its healthcare system.\n\nOther challenges to the HIV treatment and prevention efforts in Haiti include more recent events, such as Hurricane Matthew, the cholera outbreak, and additional refugees arriving from the Dominican Republic, the limitations on the human and financial resources the NGOs can provide, and the fluctuating level of cooperation from the Haitian government.\n\nThe Haitian connection controversy refers to the debate regarding the origins of the HIV virus in Haiti and the United States and whether or not HIV was spread into the US by Haitians or into Haiti by Americans. The controversy began in the 1982, when the CDC noted that 34 cases of immunodeficient patients were Haitian. This \"connection\" noted by physicians caused the erroneous labeling of Haitians as a risk factor group for HIV, leading to the rise of the term \"the 4-H's\" referring to Homosexuals, Hemophiliacs, Heroin addicts, and Haitians as the major groups prone to HIV infection.\n\nDr. Jacques Pépin, a Quebecer author of \"The Origins of AIDS\", stipulated that Haiti was one of HIV's entry points to the United States. In July 1960, when Belgian Congo gained independence, the United Nations recruited Francophone experts and technicians from all over the world to assist in filling administrative gaps left by Belgium. By 1962, Haitians made up the second largest group of well-educated experts in the country totaling around 4500. One of them may have carried HIV back across the Atlantic in the 1960s. Pépin argues that its spread in Haiti was sped by poor Haitians in need of money selling their blood plasma at centers such as Hemo-Caribbean, which was known to have poor hygienic practices. Plasma centers separated plasma from blood cells and failed to change needles and tubing between patients, a practice that rapidly spreads blood-borne diseases. Luckner Cambronne, co-owner of Hemo-Caribbean and known as the \"Vampire of the Caribbean\", was notorious for selling Haitian blood and cadavers abroad for medical uses. Plasma from Hemo-Caribbean was exported to the United States at a maximum rate of 5,000 to 6,000 litres per month in the early 1970s.\n\nIn his 1990 book \"AIDS and Accusation,\" Paul Farmer refutes the idea that Haiti was an HIV entry point to the USA. Referencing an epidemiological study on the prevalence of sarcomas associated with HIV/AIDS contraction, Farmer suggests that Cambronne's plasma business occurred before identifiers of HIV infection were recorded in Haiti, indicating that the disease did not arrive in Haiti until at least the late-1970s. Farmer instead argues that HIV/AIDS in Haiti was introduced by visitors from the US.\n\nIn a 2007 study, 5 HIV isolates from different regions were compared on the molecular level. By comparing the number of mutations present in different strands of HIV found from patients from Central Africa, the United States, and Haiti, the results predict that the Haitian strain of the virus is the genetic midpoint between the strains found in Central Africa and the United States, and that the virus traveled from Haiti to the United States about 3 years after it reached Haiti. However, this study is refuted by Jean Pape as a continuation of decades old prejudice against Haiti in regards to the AIDS epidemic, as the study does not provide conclusive evidence that the virus traveled from Haiti to the US.\n\nRegardless of origin, the consequences of HIV/AIDS in Haiti were severe. The disease spread rapidly throughout Haiti, infecting thousands. Haiti's burgeoning tourist industry suffered greatly from the association with HIV/AIDS, and Haitians living in the USA were placed on the banned list for blood donations, alongside homosexuals and intravenous drug users, until 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "35324972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35324972", "title": "Health in Honduras", "text": "Health in Honduras\n\nThe fertility rate was approximately 3.7 per woman in Honduras in 2009. The under-five mortality rate is at 40 per 1,000 live births. The health expenditure was US$197 per person in 2004. There are about 57 physicians per 100,000 people.\n\nLife expectancy at birth was 78 for females in 2016 and for males 73.\n\nExpenditure on health was 8.7% of GDP in 2014. Only 2.9% of the population is covered by private health insurance.\n\nThe Honduran Social Security Institute which runs the national public health system was established in 1959. People generally had to travel to Tegucigalpa to access services. In the 1970s a medical center in San Pedro Sula was opened. Services were not available until 1992 in El Progreso. The Ministry of Health in Honduras provides care to almost 90% of the population, but there is still little provision for the rural population, and there is a serious shortage of doctors. The ratio of doctor to population in 1984 was one to 1,510. In 2015, there were 10,995 registered doctors. From 2013 there was a new focus on providing more coverage to rural and poor areas and emphasized preventative care and maintenance as a way to improve public health and this has produced some improvement.\n\nThere are now 7 national hospitals, located in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, 6 regional hospitals, 16 area hospitals, 436 Rural Health Centers (CESAMO), 1,078 Health Centers with Physician and Dentistry (CESAR), 74 maternal and child clinics, 3 peripheral emergency clinics (CLIPER) and 15 dental school centers (CEO). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24015905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24015905", "title": "Hospital Records Database", "text": "Hospital Records Database\n\nThe Hospital Records Database is a database provided by the Wellcome Trust and UK National Archives which provides information on the existence and location of the records of UK hospitals. This includes the location and dates of administrative and clinical records, the existence of catalogues, and links to some online hospital catalogues. The website was proposed as a resource of the month by the Royal Society of Medicine in 2009 \n\n"}
{"id": "28926068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28926068", "title": "Huairou Reservoir", "text": "Huairou Reservoir\n\nThe Huairou Reservoir is a reservoir about 60km north of Beijing, China. It is the site of the Huairou Solar Observing Station.\n"}
{"id": "42687056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42687056", "title": "INMOTION SCV", "text": "INMOTION SCV\n\nThe INMOTION SCV self-balancing, sensor controlled, battery-powered dicycle from INMOTION Technologies of Shenzhen, China. \n\nBase on \"Dynamic Stabilization\" principle, INMOTION SCV applies the latest dynamic self-balancing technology and FOC technology with the assistance of gyroscopes and accelerometers to sense the rider's body movements while driving, and uses servo control systems to precisely drive the motors to keep it always balanced. To turn, the rider presses the handlebar to the left or the right. INMOTION SCVs are driven by electric motors and can reach a speed of . It has been compared to Segways. \"SCV\" is an abbreviation for \"sensor controlled vehicle\".\n\nINMOTION SCVs perform best in smooth sidewalks. Weighing in at of , it is advised to be used for urban commuting and touring.\n\n"}
{"id": "16622167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16622167", "title": "Incident stress", "text": "Incident stress\n\nIncident stress is a condition caused by acute stress which overwhelms a staff person trained to deal with critical incidents such as within the line of duty for first responders, EMTs, and other similar personnel. If not recognized and treated at onset, incident stress can lead to more serious effects of posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\n\nSymptomatology associated with excessive acute or sustained stress may include cognitive impairments such as diminished memory, decision-making capacity, and attention span; emotional reactions such as anger, irritability, guilt, fear, paranoia, and depression; and physical problems ranging from fatigue, dizziness, migraine headaches, and high blood pressure to diabetes and cancer. Self-destructive and antisocial behavior may also be triggered. Symptoms can vary depending on several factors, such as trauma severity, the amount of social support, and additional life stresses.\n\nA critical incident that occurs to an individual is the starting point for incident stress if the individual is unable to cope. Critical incidents are defined as sudden, unexpected events that have an emotional impact sufficient to overwhelm the usually effective coping skills of an individual and cause significant psychological damage.\n\nHealthy attachment among adults is key to managing critical incident stress. Adults have four attachment styles: 1) fearful avoidant, 2) anxious-preoccupied, 3) dismissive avoidant, and 4) secure. \"Fearful avoidant\" adults have mixed feelings about close relationships, because they want emotional connections but are very reluctant to allow them. \"Anxious-preoccupied\" adults tend to deal with their stress by distancing themselves from the reality of the situation to avoid the emotional burden. They also tend to see themselves negatively and doubt their worth in relationships frequently. \"Dismissive avoidant\" adults view themselves as self-sufficient, and in no need of emotional connectedness. \"Secure\" adults have positive views about themselves, and feel comfortable with independence and intimacy. Secure adults typically cope better with critical incident stress, as opposed to non-secure adults, because they develop less stress by nature. Secure adults are also less likely to develop post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).\n\nPeople exhibiting signs of incident stress require professional help to avoid the more serious condition of posttraumatic stress disorder. The DSM IV-TR describes posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as having three distinct symptom clusters: 1) re-experiencing the event, 2) avoidance of stimuli associated with the event and numbing of general responsiveness, and 3) increased arousal. The first symptom cluster, \"re-experiencing the event\", is a mixture of physical and psychological reactions someone goes through after the critical event has occurred. Those includes nightmares, reoccurring thoughts/flashbacks, or panic attacks. The second symptom cluster, \"avoidance of stimuli associated with the event and numbing of general responsiveness\", occurs when someone avoids anything that could possibly trigger memories of the critical event. This includes thoughts and feelings associated with the event, and even physical stimuli such as people and places having to do with the event. The third symptom cluster, \"increased arousal\", produces anxiety-driven responses, such as trouble sleeping, excessive anger and irritability, hypervigilance, poor concentration, and exaggerated startle response. When these symptoms persist for more than 2 weeks, a diagnosis of acute stress disorder may be appropriate. Factors, such as family psychiatric history, or childhood abuse may mediate the relationship between critical incidents and PTSD.\n\nCritical incident-stress debriefings (CISDs) have proven to be a successful coping method over the past 15 years for individuals in high-stress, emergency response professions. Nearly 300 CISD teams exist in the United States, offering intervention to fire, paramedic, police, and other emergency personnel. These debriefings are designed to offer emotional reassurance, time for ventilation of feelings, education about stress management, and consultation. This technique was first implemented by Jeff Mitchell, of the International Critical Incident Stress Foundation, in 1983 to treat emergency care workers in the mental health profession. These debriefings were created to prevent worsening of the stress and also promote recovery. Judith Herman, author of \"Trauma & Recovery\", identified three critical conditions that must be satisfied in order to progress toward recovery: 1) safety, 2) remembrance and mourning, and 3) reconnection. \"Safety\" is achieved when victims learn to feel relaxed and trust in the recovery process by recognizing there are disturbed emotions. \"Remembrance and mourning\" of the critical incident is necessary in order for the victim to move toward recovery. \"Reconnection\" occurs when the victim feels they are emotionally stable enough to pursue stress management and recovery.\n\nProblem-solving appraisals were tested as another possible method for coping with critical incident stress. The first successful testing of this technique was done by Sarah Baker and Karen Williams in the United Kingdom, using a testing group of stressed firefighters. These firefighters filled out anonymous self-report questionnaires that gauged their level of stress. The research results supported the hypothesis that problem-solving appraisals serve a moderating function between work stress and psychological distress.\n\n"}
{"id": "3951342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3951342", "title": "Inflammatory papillary hyperplasia", "text": "Inflammatory papillary hyperplasia\n\nInflammatory papillary hyperplasia is a hyperplasia (overgrowth) of soft tissue, usually beneath a denture. It is associated with poor denture hygiene, denture overuse, and ill-fitting dentures.\n\nIt is a closely related condition to inflammatory fibrous hyperplasia (epulis fissuratum), but the appearance and location differs.\n\nIt appears as an asymptomatic erythematous area, usually on the hard palate, with a pebbly surface.\n\nThe exact cause of inflammatory papillary hyperplasia is unknown, but it is thought to be a reactive, inflammatory lesion in response to irritation from an upper dental prosthesis. Nonetheless, it may also occur on the hard palates of patients who are chronic mouth-breathers. Sometimes, this disease can be found in conjunction with another denture-related disease, an epulis fissuratum.\n\nThe appearance of an epulis fissuratum microscopically is an overgrowth of stratified squamous epithelium cells. Depending on the how advanced the condition is, pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia may be present.\n\nIn mild cases, treatment consists of removal of the denture with spontaneous regression of the disease. In advanced cases of inflammatory papillary hyperplasia, surgery may be needed, along with behavioral modification toward proper denture use.\nClinical presentation and patient history of denture use.\nAntifungals to reduce erythema, do nothing (usually lasts 24 hours), Surgical removal (not recommended).\n\nDue to the strong association with denture-wearing, the lesion tends to occur more in adults than children. There is no gender predilection. In people who wear dentures 24 hours a day, its incidence is around 20%.\n"}
{"id": "20826914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20826914", "title": "Iranian Red Crescent Society", "text": "Iranian Red Crescent Society\n\nThe Iranian Red Crescent Society (IRCS), officially the Red Crescent Society of the Islamic Republic of Iran () is a non-governmental humanitarian organization in Iran. Founded as the Red Lion and Sun Society in 1922, it became affiliated with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) in 1924 and changed its name and emblem in 1980, informing the international community of \"Hilal Ahmar\" adoption while assuming the right to adopt the former emblem in future.\n\nThe society is one of the world's largest national societies within IFRC and is noted for its special expertise in responding to earthquakes.\n\nSince inception, the IRCS has participated in a variety of public activities. Its core activity is to perform relief and rescue operations to help victims and the injured in natural disasters and accidents. It also engages a in wide range of humanitarian services in health and rehabilitation, training and research. The society had a therapeutic approach and was regarded a major healthcare institution with thousands of hospital beds across the country until 1979, when all of its medical facilities were transferred to the Ministry of Health.\n\nIRCS is an example of strong national societies that play an important role domestically and is held in high esteem by the Iranian general public.\n\nIRCS has 30 governorate headquarters, one in each province of Iran, and 330 branches throughout the country, as of 2005. Based on the latest structure, it is made up of four departments: relief and rescue (\"emdād wa najāt\"), medical provisions (\"tadārokāt-e pezeški\"), volunteers (\"dāvṭalabān\"), and youth (\"javānān\"). The latter is largely made up by high school and university student members.\n\nAccording to the law enacted by the Iranian Parliament, the society is run by a chairman appointed by the President of Iran. This procedure is in contrast with the elective nature of a society chairman as suggested by the IFRC. The secretary general is responsible for the administrative and executive affairs.\n\nIRCS owns and runs Helal Iran Textile Industries Co., a producer of blankets and tents. SOHA, a manufacturer of disposable medical devices is also owned by the society, as well as \"Shahrvand\", a daily newspaper. \"Iranian Red Crescent Medical Journal\", an English language peer-reviewed journal on clinical and scientific medicine, is another publication of IRCS.\n\nHeads of the society have been:\n\n"}
{"id": "35806840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35806840", "title": "Jindo AIDS scandal", "text": "Jindo AIDS scandal\n\nThe Jindo AIDS Scandal was a 2002 incident in Jindo County in South Jeolla Province, South Korea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49470944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49470944", "title": "List of countries and dependencies by number of physicians", "text": "List of countries and dependencies by number of physicians\n"}
{"id": "40840852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40840852", "title": "List of murdered hip hop musicians", "text": "List of murdered hip hop musicians\n\nThe following is a list of notable hip hop musicians killed since the genre began in the early 1970s.\n"}
{"id": "58944814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58944814", "title": "Maura Lynch", "text": "Maura Lynch\n\nSr. Dr. Maura Lynch (September 10, 1938 – December 9, 2017) was an Irish doctor, a nun, and proponent of women's health.\n\nLynch was born in Youghal, County Cork, Ireland to Patrick and Jane Lynch on September 10, 1938. She was one of nine children, three girls and six boys. Her father worked for the Post Office and moved the family with him around the country. Her mother was a teacher. The family spoke Irish at home. Lynch entered the convent of the Medical Missionaries of Mary (MMM) just before her 18th birthday in Clonmel, Co. Tipperary in 1956. She completed her education in the medical school at University College, Dublin to become a doctor. Lynch graduated in the top three of her class. She went on to get a Diploma in Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists in London in 1966. Once her training was complete she was sent to Angola in 1967 after a period in Lisbon, Portugal, to learn Portuguese. She studied in the Lisbon School of Tropical Medicine where she gained her Diploma in Tropical Medicine and Public Health.\n\nIn Angola, then known as Portuguese West Africa, Lynch worked as the medical director of the hospital at Chiulo. Lynch remained in the country during the Angolan War of Independence and the 1975 Angolan Civil War. The hospital became a focal point for war wounded.\n\nLynch completed her fellowship in surgery in 1985 and was then sent to Kitovu, Uganda in 1987 via Anua, Nigeria. In Nigeria Lynch learned about the repair of obstetrical fistulae which became a major focus of her work. She set up a medical centre in Kitovu Hospital for women affected by fistula and trained medical personnel on how to prevent and treat fistulae. The programme created by Lynch has received international recognition and awards. She was a founding member of the Association of Surgeons in Uganda. The government of Uganda granted her a Certificate of Residency for life. UCD awarded her an Honorary Fellowship of the School of Medicine in 2007. In 2013 she was given an honorary Fellowship in Obstetrics and Gynaecology from London College of Obstetric & Gynaecology and In 2015 she was awarded the Council of Europe's North-South Prize.\n\nA fall in her eightieth year ended Lynch's tenure in Kitovu. She had surgery and moved to another local convent to recover. However less than a month later on the planned date of her golden jubilee celebration of her life in Africa, December 9, she died in Kampala Hospital and was buried in Masaka, Uganda. She is remembered as a mentor, a feminist, and an advocator for women's rights. She is commemorated on the \"Women on Walls\" at Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "10286504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10286504", "title": "Mercy General Hospital", "text": "Mercy General Hospital\n\nMercy General Hospital is a nationally recognized not-for-profit private community hospital located in the East Sacramento neighborhood of Sacramento, CA. The hospital has 342 beds and over 2,000 clinical staff, and serves as the major Cardiac Surgery referral center for the Greater Sacramento Service Area Dignity Hospitals, as well as for Kaiser Permanente. The Mercy Heart Institute and the Mercy Stroke Center are key features of the hospital. It is a member of the Dignity Health network.\n\nIn 2014, The Alex G. Spanos Heart & Vascular Center was opened. This four story addition to the hospital added: 71 private, family-friendly patient rooms, 21-bed cardiac ambulatory procedure area, 20-bed cardiac surgery ICU, dedicated Cardiovascular Operating Room (CVOR), and a new interventional cardiac catheterization lab.\n\nWith this expansion all cardiopulmonary services were brought under one roof: Cardiac Rehabilitation, Cardiac Support Unit, Cardiopulmonary Services (Respiratory Care, EKG, Echo), and Electrophysiology.\n\nMercy General hospital is a full service general hospital, which places special emphasis on Cardiac Care and Neuroscience/Spine and Rehabilitative Services. It currently possesses 284 inpatient beds, a 20-bed Cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit (CVICU), 18-bed Medical-Surgical-Neurosurgical Intensive Care Unit (MSNICU), and 20-bed Emergency Department (ED).\n\nThe Health Heart & Vascular Institute is the largest cardiac surgical program of its kind in California. The Neuroscience Service centers around its biplane angiography suite, allowing its neurosurgeons to perform neurological interventional coiling.\n\nResident Physicians from the Mercy Methodist Family Medicine Program complete portions of their PGY-2 and PGY-3 Internal Medicine rotations at Mercy General, where they work alongside Intensivists, Internists, and Family Medicine Physicians.\n\nMercy General has been named by Healthgrades as one of America’s 50 Best Hospitals for Cardiac Surgery and one of America’s 100 Best Hospitals for Cardiac Care and also received the Distinguished Hospital - Clinical Excellence; Critical Care – Excellence Award; and 5-Star Ratings for Coronary Artery Bypass (15 years in a row), Valve Surgery, Heart Attack and Heart Failure.\n\nIn addition to cardiac care, Mercy General was also awarded by Healthgrades with the Critical Care Excellence Award.\n\nU.S. News & World Report ranks Mercy General as \"High Performing\" in Aortic Valve Surgery, Colon Cancer Surgery, Heart Bypass, and Heart Failure.\n\nMercy General is a Joint Commission Certified Chest Pain Center, and has also been recognized by the Society of Chest Pain Centers, the Society of Cardiovascular Patient Care, and the American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11717499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11717499", "title": "PEERtrainer", "text": "PEERtrainer\n\nPEERtrainer is a social networking website that aims to help people lose weight. It is based on the idea that social support is the most important factor in weight loss. Development on the website began in August 2004; it was launched in October 2005. The potential of the company's health oriented social networking platform has generated interest from leading healthcare firms. PEERtrainer's says its membership has reached more than 900,000 since its launch in 2005.\n\nPEERtrainer's social support network centers around four-person user groups with common interests. The website is used as a way to reinforce habits among members by facilitating peer-to-peer support within these groups. Some individuals that take part in other dieting programs, such as Weight Watchers, have begun to integrate PEERtrainer's online support groups to help them stay on track.\n\nIn May, 2007, a PEERtrainer member was pictured on the cover of \"People\" for her weight loss success story, and featured on \"Good Morning America\". The company was ranked \"Best in Class\" in the Health category of the SEOmoz 2007 Web 2.0 Awards and written about by \"The New York Times\". The NBC San Francisco Bay Area affiliate TV show \"TechNow!\" aired its segment on PEERtrainer in May, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "20184184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20184184", "title": "Patient experience", "text": "Patient experience\n\nThe patient experience describes an individual's experience of illness/injury and how healthcare treats them. Increasing focus on patient experience is part of a move towards patient-centered care. It is often operationalised through metrics, a trend related to consumerism and New Managerialism.\n\nPatient experience (PX) is defined as the sum of all interactions, shaped by an organization’s culture, that influence patient perceptions across the continuum of care.\n\nPatient experience has become a key Quality outcome for healthcare; measuring it is seen to support improvement in healthcare quality, governance, public accountability and, especially in the English NHS, patient choice. Measures of patient experience arose from work in the 1980s and is now there use is now widescale. However, their effectiveness has been questioned and clinicians and managers may disagree about their use.\n\nWhen patient experience is discussed in terms of experiences with health care services it is similar to patient satisfaction. However, patient experience is often reported in health research as also encompassing people's experiences of illness and injury outside of their experiences with health services, such as those experiences with family and friends, and the influence of illness/injury over their capacity to engage in social activities or previously imagined futures. For example, researchers might report of the patient experience of living with heart failure or other chronic illnesses.\n\nPatient-reported experience measures (PREMs) are, akin to patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs), questionnaires completed by the patient to assess their experience. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1067367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1067367", "title": "Psychiatric history", "text": "Psychiatric history\n\nA psychiatric history is the result of a medical process where a clinician working in the field of mental health (usually a psychiatrist) systematically records the content of an interview with a patient. This is then combined with the mental status examination to produce a \"psychiatric formulation\" of the person being examined.\n\nPsychologists take a similar history, often referred to as a psychological history.\n\nThis article mainly covers the initial assessment history taking of a patient presenting for the first time with a new complaint.\n\nIn the field of medicine a patient history is an account of the significant events in the patient's life that have a relevance to the issue being addressed. The clinician taking the history guides the process in an attempt to achieve a succinct summary of these relevant details. Much of the history is obtained by asking questions. Some of these questions are quite specific, such as, \"How old are you?\" and others are more open, such as, \"How have you been feeling lately?\" Although the structure of the interview may appear disjointed, the end result is usually under a set of headings which have a worldwide similarity.\n\nThe basic details of who the patient is are collected. This includes their age, sex, educational status, religion, occupation, relationship status, address and contact details. This serves several purposes. Firstly, it is necessary information for administrative purposes and for this reason some of this is often taken by clerks. Secondly, the questions are largely non threatening and provide a gentle introduction into the meeting of patient and clinician. Thirdly, it provides a format for individual introduction suitable to the culture. Thus the clinician may start by introducing themselves and then move on to these questions. This initial structure can provide a sense of familiarity for the patient who is stressed about what is happening.\n\nThe next step is to determine why the patient is there. How did they get to be in the interview? Were they referred by someone (such as another clinician, a relative or friend, or by the police or the courts) or did they come looking for help? If they were referred by someone then what was that person's reason for the referral. Often such information is provided in a referral letter or by an earlier phone call.\n\nThe clinician next tries to clarify what are the main problems that have brought the patient to be there. Some of this may have already been achieved in the previous section. The patient may have more than one problem and these may be related, such as posttraumatic stress disorder and alcohol abuse or seemingly unrelated, such as panic disorder and premature ejaculation. The patient is unlikely to present a diagnosis and is more likely to describe the nature of their problems in common language.\n\nThe clinician then attempts to obtain a clear description of these problems. When did they start? How did they start, suddenly, slowly or in fits and starts? Have they fluctuated over time? What does the patient describe as the essential features of the complaints? Having developed a hypothesis of what may be the diagnosis, the clinician next looks at symptoms that might confirm this hypothesis or lead them to consider another possibility. Much of the mental process for the clinician is involved in this process of hypothesis testing to arrive at a diagnostic formulation that will form the basis of a management plan. The severity of each complaint is assessed and this may include probing questions on sensitive issues such as suicidal thoughts or sexual difficulties.\n\nThis is divided into the \"psychiatric past history\", which looks at any previous episodes of the presenting complaint as well as any other past or ongoing psychiatric problems. The \"past substance (drug) history\" included data about patterns of use (mode of administration, age of onset, frequency, amount, last use, medical or psychological complications, history of attempting to quit) for alcohol, tobacco, and illicit drugs. The \"medical past history\" documents significant illnesses, both past and current, and significant medical events such as head injury, seizures, major surgeries, and major illnesses. A separate \"sexual history\" gathers data about sexual orientation and sexual activity. Finally a \"history of abuse\", including physical, emotional, and sexual abuse is obtained from the patient and collateral sources (family members or close family friends) as trauma might not be directly remembered by the patient.\n\nMany psychiatric disorders have a genetic component and the biological family history is thus relevant. Clinical experience also suggests that a response to treatment may have a genetic component as well. Thus a patient who presents with clinical depression whose mother also suffered from the same disorder and responded well to fluoxetine would indicate that this drug would be more likely to help in the patient's disorder.\n\nApart from the genetic factors, research has shown that illnesses in the parents such as depression and alcohol abuse are associated with a higher rate of some conditions in the children growing up in that environment. Similar effects are seen with the death of a parent from a protracted illness.\n\nThis documents the significant events in the patient's life. Ideally it starts with pre-natal factors such as maternal illnesses or complications with the pregnancy, then documents delivery and early childhood illnesses or problems. It then looks at significant events in the patient's life such as parental separation, abuse, education, psychosexual development, peer relationships, behavioural aspects and any legal complications. It flows then into adulthood with relationship and occupational histories. The aim is to get an overview of who the patient is and what they have experienced in life, both good and bad. Major stresses and transitions such as marriage, parenthood, retirement, death or loss of a partner, and financial success and failure are all important, as is how the patient has dealt with them. Sexual adjustment and problems can be relevant and are often questioned.\n\nIf the information has not already been obtained, the clinician then documents the social circumstances of the patient looking at factors such as finances, housing, relationships, drug and alcohol use, and problems with the law or other authorities. This is also a time to document racial or cultural issues that are relevant to the presenting complaint.\n\nA psychiatric review of systems may include screening questions directed at identifying or exploring co-morbid psychiatric illnesses or issues (e.g. SIGECAPS mnemonic or PHQ-9 for depression, Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7 for anxiety, DIGFAST mnemonic for mania, or specific questioning around psychoses or other psychiatric complaints. A full review of systems should attempt to identify and list all of the relevant STRESSORS that may be impacting a patient's function and overall health.\n\nHaving collected this information the clinician usually then considers any other factors that might be relevant to the particular patient and enquires about them. Although the gathering of the information may follow the flow of the patient's thoughts rather than those of the clinician, it is not uncommon for the clinician to record the psychiatric history under headings, such as those above, to make it easier for others who will later read it.\n\nSubsequent history taking on reviews concentrates on changes in the levels of symptoms and responses to treatment, including possible side-effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4524498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4524498", "title": "Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965", "text": "Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965\n\nThe Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965, was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, which amended the existing legislation controlling the registration system of births, deaths and marriages in Scotland founded in 1855. The Act set out the roles, responsibilities and functions of the Registrar General for Scotland, and the ability of the Registrar-General to appoint other Registrars. The Act also provides for a yearly report to be published by the Registrar-General delineating annual trends in Scotland's population - including estimated population size, birth rates, death rates and migration rates to be presented to Scottish Ministers.\n\nThe Act has been substantially amended in many areas with succeeding legislation, such as the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1973, the Marriage (Scotland) Act 1977, the Adoption (Scotland) Act 1978, the British Nationality Act 1981 and the Scotland Act 1998. The Scotland Act transferred overall control of the Registrar General for Scotland and the General Register Office for Scotland from the Scottish Office to the Scottish Executive- the devolved government of Scotland. However many of the central functions of the General Register Office for Scotland continue to be governed by the Act.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35960391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35960391", "title": "Seč Dam", "text": "Seč Dam\n\nSeč dam (Czech Sečská přehrada) is an artificial drinking water reservoir located in Pardubice Region, Czech Republic. It supplies cities of Pardubice and Chrudim and is also an important tourist destination located in protected area Železné hory. The dam has also regulatory function and its water is used in some water power plants.\n\nSeč dam is the largest dam in the protected landscape area Železné hory. It is located on river Chrudimka in a valley close to the town of the same name, about 20 kilometers from Chrudim and 25 kilometers from Pardubice. The lake is approx. 7 kilometers long and is situated at 490 meters above the sea level.\n\nThe dam was constructed between 1925 and 1934 as a protection against floods. As a result of the construction, 22 buildings were depopulated and flooded. Remains of some of them are popular destination for scuba divers. A small power plant was constructed between 1941 and 1946. In 1947 another smaller reservoir was constructed approx 1 km from the main lake and it is called Seč II.\n\nThe environmentally most valuable part of Seč are Ostrůvek and the Oheb peninsula, which consists of a steep rock that ends with a small rocky promontory covered with pines. This place is a home to some rare invertebrate species (snails, beetles) as well as a natural habitat of Eurasian eagle-owls. The forest that covers the Oheb rock consists of some very old species of European beeches. Dead trees are left to decay and become hosts for a wide range of polypores that feed on their dead wood.\n\nThe lake and its surroundings are the main tourist attraction of the Železné hory region. The surroundings are hilly and covered with forests, meadows and fields. The lake offers great variety of activities including swimming, sailing, boating, windsurfing, scuba diving, fishing in summer and ice skating in winter (at own risk). The forests around the lake offer great opportunity for hiking, horse riding or cross-country skiing in winter. The most important places on Seč and its vicinity are:\n\nOheb and Ostrůvek are protected natural areas threatened by tourists that visit these sites. Another ecological issue is the wastewater from surrounding villages and recreational objects that contaminates the lake. It does not represent a direct risk to the people who swim in the water but it causes algal bloom. In some cases, large areas of green \"tufts\" can be observed. This was originally believed to be caused by manure washed down from the fields close to the lake, but results of recent researches proved that fluoride compounds from manure are insoluble in water so it cannot be the primary cause. The algal bloom season on Seč may start as soon as in June and gets worse when there's lack of rain which reduces the water flow. It is recommended to have a shower after swimming in the water or avoid entering the water when the situations worsens.\n"}
{"id": "9559841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9559841", "title": "Special needs plan", "text": "Special needs plan\n\nA special needs plan (or SNP, often pronounced \"snip\") is a category of the US Medicare Advantage plan designed to attract and enroll Medicare beneficiaries who fall into a certain special needs demographic. There are two types of SNPs. The exclusive SNP enrolls only those beneficiaries who fall into the special needs demographic. The other type is the disproportionate share SNP. \"Disproportionate share\" SNPs enroll a greater percentage of the target special needs population as compared to a national percentage of the target population. Under the federal �Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, Congress identified special needs individuals\" as (1) institutionalized, or (2) dually eligible, or (3) individuals with severe or disabling chronic conditions. More specifically, special needs individuals include:\n\n"}
{"id": "17614090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17614090", "title": "Thin (film)", "text": "Thin (film)\n\nThin (often styled as THIN) is a 2006 cinéma vérité documentary film directed by Lauren Greenfield and distributed by HBO. It was filmed at The Renfrew Center of Florida in Coconut Creek, a 40-bed residential facility for the treatment of women with eating disorders. The film follows four women with anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa and other eating disorders in their struggle for recovery. It premiered to the general public November 14, 2006 on HBO.\n\nGreenfield describes the making of \"Thin\" as \"[...] a continuation of my decade-long exploration of body image and the way the female body has become a primary expression of identity for girls and women in our time.\"\n\nGreenfield first visited The Renfrew Center in 1997 on assignment for \"Time\" magazine. She later returned to photograph young women for her personal project, the photo-book and art exhibition, \"Girl Culture\". Following multiple trips to the facility, she gained their trust and support to begin using it to film \"Thin\", her directorial debut which she produced in collaboration with R.J. Cutler.\n\nLiving at the center for six months, Greenfield and director of photography Amanda Micheli received unrestricted access to film staff meetings, therapy sessions, mealtimes and daily weigh-ins that depict the highly structured routine of inpatients' daily lives. The film explores their turbulent interpersonal relationships, and highlights the efforts of the Renfrew medical team and the complex tasks they face.\n\nShelly Guillory is a 25-year-old psychiatric nurse who enters the Center at the beginning of the film with a PEG feeding tube surgically implanted in her stomach. She admits herself into Renfrew after ten hospitalizations. On her arrival she weighs 84.3 pounds, having been anorexic for six years and tube fed for five of those years. She has an identical twin, Kelly, who does not have an eating disorder.\n\nShelly describes a reliance on various mood stabilizers and tranquilizers and has volatile mood swings throughout the film, in particular getting very angry and aggressive when stolen food mistakenly attributed to her and pulse deficits lead to her being accused of purging.\n\nThe epilogue states that Shelly lost 17 pounds after discharge and underwent electric shock therapy to treat her depression.\n\nPollack \"Polly\" Ann Williams has been at Renfrew for nine weeks. She admitted herself after a suicide attempt over two slices of pizza, explaining that while they weren't the whole motivation, they were \"kind of the straw that broke the camel's back\". When interviewed she says that \"dieting has always been a huge part of my life\" and that she was \"counting calories and counting fat by the time [she] was 11\".\n\nShe celebrates her 30th birthday in the Center and seems to be making progress with her anorexia but has trouble with some of the rules. She is expelled after Shelly tells the staff about Polly getting the NEDA symbol tattooed on her hip while on a day pass from the Center. This incident was compounded by Polly's disruptive history, which included smoking in her bathroom (a fact she admitted during a Community Group therapy session) and giving mood stabilizers to Shelly. Shelly told staff that Polly had given her Neurontin after the pills were discovered in her room during a routine check for contraband.\n\nUpon being given her 24-hour notice to leave, Polly expresses despair and purges on camera. She was described in the epilogue as continuing to have trouble with purging and weight loss, and that she ultimately passed away in February 2008 at age 33.\n\nBrittany Robinson is a 15-year-old student who was admitted to Renfrew with liver damage, a low heart rate and hair loss after dropping from 185 to 97 pounds in less than a year. She describes herself as a compulsive overeater from the age of 8, leading into compulsive dieting and anorexia from the age of 12, citing \"a bad body image\" and a craving for acceptance amongst her peers as her motivation to lose weight.\n\nAccording to Brittany, her mother also has an eating disorder and in an interview, Brittany describes how they would have \"the greatest time\" with \"chew and spit\"; chewing \"bags and bags of candy\" and spitting it out without swallowing. Her mother's experience of anorexia is touched upon in greater detail in an interview in the film's companion book, also titled \n\nThroughout the film Brittany is resistant to recovery, explaining that she would like to lose \"another forty pounds\" and that she \"just want[s] to be thin\". She tells her nutritionist she has purged twelve times since entering Renfrew and walks out of group therapy in tears when her dedication to recovery is challenged by Polly.\n\nBrittany's insurance benefits run out, forcing her to leave treatment early. She relapses into anorexia before leaving, prompting concern amongst patients and staff, and is released against medical advice.\n\nThe epilogue states that she began to restrict after discharge and lost weight rapidly. Insurance would not pay for further treatment.\n\nAlisa Williams, a 30-year-old divorced mother of two, traces her eating issues back to an incident at the pediatrician when she was 7 and put on a diet which then led to anorexia. She describes massive binge/purge sessions which resulted in hospitalizations due to the resulting dehydration and her severe abuse of diuretics, hydrochlorothiazide, laxatives, enemas and ipecac.\n\nApart from her binges, which she describes as occurring \"every few weeks or so, over and over again, for three or four days\", she was restricting to under 200 calories a day prior to entering Renfrew. She had been hospitalized five times in the three months leading to her admittance to the Center. Having struggled with her eating disorder for 16 years, Alisa took disability leave from her job as a pharmaceutical rep in order to enter treatment.\n\nAlisa seems to respond well to Renfrew and towards the end of her stay expresses a desire to \"taste recovery\".\n\nAfter discharge, Alisa struggles through dinner with her children and Shelly at a restaurant. She picks at her food and takes tiny bites. The film later shows Alisa, agitated and pacing around her home, distract her two children with cartoons and waffles as she enters her bathroom to purge repeatedly. The epilogue reveals that she would go on to lose 20 pounds and attempt suicide, and that she returned to Renfrew for treatment and maintained a healthy weight after leaving.\n\n\n\"Thin\" was selected for competition at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival and won the John Grierson Award for best feature-length documentary at the London Film Festival 2006. It has also screened at Hot Docs and Full Frame, as well as film festivals in Chicago, Vancouver, Austin, St. Louis, Ojai, Galway and Sweden. It received the 2006 Documentary Grand Jury Prize at the Boston Independent Film Festival, Newport International Film Festival and Jackson Hole Film Festival. It has also been nominated for an International Documentary Association Award.\n\n\"Thin\" by Lauren Greenfield, \n"}
{"id": "37670240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37670240", "title": "Translational bioinformatics", "text": "Translational bioinformatics\n\nTranslational bioinformatics (TBI) is an emerging field in the study of health informatics, focused on the convergence of molecular bioinformatics, biostatistics, statistical genetics and clinical informatics. Its focus is on applying informatics methodology to the increasing amount of biomedical and genomic data to formulate knowledge and medical tools, which can be utilized by scientists, clinicians, and patients. Furthermore, it involves applying biomedical research to improve human health through the use of computer-based information system. TBI employs data mining and analyzing biomedical informatics in order to generate clinical knowledge for application. Clinical knowledge includes finding similarities in patient populations, interpreting biological information to suggest therapy treatments and predict health outcomes.\n\nTranslational bioinformatics is a relatively young field within translational research. Google trends indicate the use of \"bioinformatics\" has decreased since the mid 1990s when it was suggested as a transformative approach to biomedical research. It was coined, however, close to ten years earlier. TBI was then presented as means to facilitate data organization, accessibility and improved interpretation of the available biomedical research. It was considered a decision support tool that could integrate biomedical information into decision-making processes that otherwise would have been omitted due to the nature of human memory and thinking patterns.\n\nInitially, the focus of TBI was on ontology and vocabulary designs for searching the mass data stores. However, this attempt was largely unsuccessful as preliminary attempts for automation resulted in misinformation. TBI needed to develop a baseline for cross-referencing data with higher order algorithms in order to link data, structures and functions in networks. This went hand in hand with a focus on developing curriculum for graduate level programs and capitalization for funding on the growing public acknowledgement of the potential opportunity in TBI.\n\nWhen the first draft of the human genome was completed in the early 2000s, TBI continued to grow and demonstrate prominence as a means to bridge biological findings with clinical informatics, impacting the opportunities for both industries of biology and healthcare. Expression profiling, text mining for trends analysis, population-based data mining providing biomedical insights, and ontology development has been explored, defined and established as important contributions to TBI. Achievements of the field that have been used for knowledge discovery include linking clinical records to genomics data, linking drugs with ancestry, whole genome sequencing for a group with a common disease, and semantics in literature mining. There has been discussion of cooperative efforts to create cross-jurisdictional strategies for TBI, particularly in Europe. The past decade has also seen the development of personalized medicine and data sharing in pharmacogenomics. These accomplishments have solidified public interest, generated funds for investment in training and further curriculum development, increased demand for skilled personnel in the field and pushed ongoing TBI research and development.\n\nAt present, TBI research spans multiple disciplines; however, the application of TBI in clinical settings remains limited. Currently, it is partially deployed in drug development, regulatory review, and clinical medicine. The opportunity for application of TBI is much broader as increasingly medical journals are mentioning the term \"informatics\" and discussing bioinformatics related topics. TBI research draws on four main areas of discourse: clinical genomics, genomic medicine, pharmacogenomics, and genetic epidemiology. There are increasing numbers of conferences and forums focused on TBI to create opportunities for knowledge sharing and field development. General topics that appear in recent conferences include: (1) personal genomics and genomic infrastructure, (2) drug and gene research for adverse events, interactions and repurposing of drugs, (3) biomarkers and phenotype representation, (4) sequencing, science and systems medicine, (5) computational and analytical methodologies for TBI, and (6) application of bridging genetic research and clinical practice.\n\nWith the help of bioinformaticians, biologists are able to analyze complex data, set up websites for experimental measurements, facilitate sharing of the measurements, and correlate findings to clinical outcomes. Translational bioinformaticians studying a particular disease would have more sample data regarding a given disease than an individual biologist studying the disease alone.\n\nSince the completion of the human genome, new projects are now attempting to systematically analyze all the gene alterations in a disease like cancer rather than focusing on a few genes at a time. In the future, large-scale data will be integrated from different sources in order to extract functional information. The availability of a large number of human genomes will allow for statistical mining of their relation to lifestyles, drug interactions, and other factors. Translational bioinformatics is therefore transforming the search for disease genes and is becoming a crucial component of other areas of medical research including pharmacogenomics.\n\nIn a study evaluating the computational and economic characteristics of cloud computing in performing a large-scale data integration and analysis of genomic medicine, cloud-based analysis had similar cost and performance in comparison to a local computational cluster. This suggests that cloud-computing technologies might be a valuable and economical technology for facilitating large-scale translational research in genomic medicine.\n\nVast amounts of bioinformatical data are currently available and continue to increase. For instance, the GenBank database, funded by the National Institute of Health (NHI), currently holds 82 billion nucleotides in 78 million sequences coding for 270,000 species. The equivalent of GenBank for gene expression microarrays, known as the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), has over 183,000 samples from 7,200 experiments and this number doubles or triples each year. The European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI) has a similar database called ArrayExpress which has over 100 000 samples from over 3,000 experiments. All together, TBI has access to more than a quarter million microarray samples at present.\n\nTo extract relevant data from large data sets, TBI employs various methods such as data consolidation, data federation, and data warehousing. In the data consolidation approach, data is extracted from various sources and centralized in a single database. This approach enables standardization of heterogeneous data and helps address issues in interoperability and compatibility among data sets. However, proponents of this method often encounter difficulties in updating their databases as it is based on a single data model. In contrast, the data federation approach links databases together and extracts data on a regular basis, then combines the data for queries. The benefit of this approach is that it enables the user to access real-time data on a single portal. However, the limitation of this is that data collected may not always be synchronized as it is derived from multiple sources. Data warehousing provides a single unified platform for data curation. Data warehousing ingrates data from multiple sources into a common format, and is typically used in bioscience exclusively for decision support purposes.\n\nAnalytic techniques serve to translate biological data using high-throughput techniques into clinically relevant information. Currently, numerous software and methodologies for querying data exist, and this number continues to grow as more studies are conducted and published in bioinformatics journals such as \"Genome Biology\", \"BMC Bioinformatics\", \"BMC Genomics\", and \"Bioinformatics\". To ascertain the best analytical technique, tools such as Weka have been created to cipher through the array of software’s and select the most appropriate technique abstracting away the need to know a specific methodology.\n\nData integration involves developing methods that use biological information for the clinical setting. Integrating data empowers clinician’s with tools for data access, knowledge discovery, and decision support. Data integration serves to utilize the wealth of information available in bioinformatics to improve patient health and safety. An example of data integration is the use of decision support systems (DSS) based on translational bioinformatics. DSS used in this regard identify correlations in patient electronic medical records (EMR) and other clinical information systems to assist clinicians in their diagnoses.\n\nCompanies are now able to provide whole human genome sequencing and analysis as a simple outsourced service. Second- and third-generation versions of sequencing systems are planned to increase the amount of genomes per day, per instrument, to 80. According to the CEO of Complete Genomics Cliff Reid, the total market for whole human genome sequencing around the world has increased five-fold during 2009 and 2010, and was estimated to be 15,000 genomes for 2011. Furthermore, if the price were to fall to $1,000 per genome, he maintained that the company would still be able to make a profit. The company is also working on process improvements to bring down the internal cost to around $100 per genome, excluding sample-prep and labor costs.\n\nAccording to the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), the costs to sequence the entire genome has significantly decreased from over $95 million in 2001 to $7,666 in January 2012. Similarly, the cost of determining one megabase (a million bases) has also decreased from over $5,000 in 2001 to $0.09 in 2012. In 2008, sequencing centers transitioned from Sanger-based (dideoxy chain termination sequencing) to 'second generation' (or 'next-generation') DNA sequencing technologies. This caused a significant drop in sequencing costs.\n\nTBI has the potential to play a significant role in medicine; however, many challenges still remain. The overarching goal for TBI is to \"develop informatics approaches for linking across traditionally disparate data and knowledge sources enabling both the generation and testing of new hypotheses\". Current applications of TBI face challenges due to a lack of standards resulting in diverse data collection methodologies. Furthermore, analytic and storage capabilities are hindered due to large volumes of data present in current research. This problem is projected to increase with personal genomics as it will create an even greater accumulation of data.\n\nChallenges also exist in the research of drugs and biomarkers, genomic medicine, protein design metagenomics, infectious disease discovery, data curation, literature mining, and workflow development. Continued belief in the opportunity and benefits of TBI justifies further funding for infrastructure, intellectual property protection and accessibility policies.\n\nAvailable funding for TBI in the past decade has increased. The demand for translational bioinformatics research is in part due to the growth in numerous areas of bioinformatics and health informatics and in part due to the popular support of projects like the Human Genome Project. This growth and influx of funding has enabled the industry to produce assets such as a repository of gene expression data and genomic scale data while also making progress towards the concept of creating a $1000 genome and completing the Human Genome Project. It is believed by some that TBI will cause a cultural shift in the way scientific and clinical information are processed within the pharmaceutical industry, regulatory agencies, and clinical practice. It is also seen as a means to shift clinical trial designs away from case studies and towards EMR analysis.\n\nLeaders in the field have presented numerous predictions with regards to the direction TBI is, and should take. A collection of predictions is as follows:\n\n\"In an information-rich world, the wealth of information means a dearth of something else—a scarcity of whatever it is that information consumes. What information consumes is rather obvious: it consumes the attention of its recipients. Hence a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention and a need to allocate that attention efficiently among the overabundance of information sources that it might consume.\" (Herbert Simon,1971).\n\nBelow is a list of existing associations, conferences and journals that are specific to TBI. By no means is this an all-inclusive list, and should be developed as others are discovered.\n\n\nA non-exhaustive list of training and certification programs specific to TBI are listed below. \n"}
{"id": "30653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30653", "title": "Tuberculosis", "text": "Tuberculosis\n\nTuberculosis (TB) is an infectious disease usually caused by \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" (MTB) bacteria. Tuberculosis generally affects the lungs, but can also affect other parts of the body. Most infections do not have symptoms, in which case it is known as latent tuberculosis. About 10% of latent infections progress to active disease which, if left untreated, kills about half of those infected. The classic symptoms of active TB are a chronic cough with blood-containing sputum, fever, night sweats, and weight loss. It was historically called \"consumption\" due to the weight loss. Infection of other organs can cause a wide range of symptoms.\nTuberculosis is spread through the air when people who have active TB in their lungs cough, spit, speak, or sneeze. People with latent TB do not spread the disease. Active infection occurs more often in people with HIV/AIDS and in those who smoke. Diagnosis of active TB is based on chest X-rays, as well as microscopic examination and culture of body fluids. Diagnosis of latent TB relies on the tuberculin skin test (TST) or blood tests.\nPrevention of TB involves screening those at high risk, early detection and treatment of cases, and vaccination with the bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine. Those at high risk include household, workplace, and social contacts of people with active TB. Treatment requires the use of multiple antibiotics over a long period of time. Antibiotic resistance is a growing problem with increasing rates of multiple drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB).\nPresently, one-quarter of the world's population is thought to be infected with TB. New infections occur in about 1% of the population each year. In 2016, there were more than 10 million cases of active TB which resulted in 1.3 million deaths. This makes it the number one cause of death from an infectious disease. More than 95% of deaths occurred in developing countries, and more than 50% in India, China, Indonesia, Pakistan, and the Philippines. The number of new cases each year has decreased since 2000. About 80% of people in many Asian and African countries test positive while 5–10% of people in the United States population test positive by the tuberculin test. Tuberculosis has been present in humans since ancient times.\n\nTuberculosis may infect any part of the body, but most commonly occurs in the lungs (known as pulmonary tuberculosis). Extrapulmonary TB occurs when tuberculosis develops outside of the lungs, although extrapulmonary TB may coexist with pulmonary TB.\n\nGeneral signs and symptoms include fever, chills, night sweats, loss of appetite, weight loss, and fatigue. Significant nail clubbing may also occur.\n\nIf a tuberculosis infection does become active, it most commonly involves the lungs (in about 90% of cases). Symptoms may include chest pain and a prolonged cough producing sputum. About 25% of people may not have any symptoms (i.e. they remain \"asymptomatic\"). Occasionally, people may cough up blood in small amounts, and in very rare cases, the infection may erode into the pulmonary artery or a Rasmussen's aneurysm, resulting in massive bleeding. Tuberculosis may become a chronic illness and cause extensive scarring in the upper lobes of the lungs. The upper lung lobes are more frequently affected by tuberculosis than the lower ones. The reason for this difference is not clear. It may be due to either better air flow, or poor lymph drainage within the upper lungs.\n\nIn 15–20% of active cases, the infection spreads outside the lungs, causing other kinds of TB. These are collectively denoted as \"extrapulmonary tuberculosis\". Extrapulmonary TB occurs more commonly in people with a weakened immune system and young children. In those with HIV, this occurs in more than 50% of cases. Notable extrapulmonary infection sites include the pleura (in tuberculous pleurisy), the central nervous system (in tuberculous meningitis), the lymphatic system (in scrofula of the neck), the genitourinary system (in urogenital tuberculosis), and the bones and joints (in Pott disease of the spine), among others. A potentially more serious, widespread form of TB is called \"disseminated tuberculosis\", also known as miliary tuberculosis. Miliary TB currently makes up about 10% of extrapulmonary cases.\n\nThe main cause of TB is \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" (MTB), a small, aerobic, nonmotile bacillus. The high lipid content of this pathogen accounts for many of its unique clinical characteristics. It divides every 16 to 20 hours, which is an extremely slow rate compared with other bacteria, which usually divide in less than an hour. Mycobacteria have an outer membrane lipid bilayer. If a Gram stain is performed, MTB either stains very weakly \"Gram-positive\" or does not retain dye as a result of the high lipid and mycolic acid content of its cell wall. MTB can withstand weak disinfectants and survive in a dry state for weeks. In nature, the bacterium can grow only within the cells of a host organism, but \"M. tuberculosis\" can be cultured in the laboratory.\n\nUsing histological stains on expectorated samples from phlegm (also called \"sputum\"), scientists can identify MTB under a microscope. Since MTB retains certain stains even after being treated with acidic solution, it is classified as an acid-fast bacillus. The most common acid-fast staining techniques are the Ziehl–Neelsen stain and the Kinyoun stain, which dye acid-fast bacilli a bright red that stands out against a blue background. Auramine-rhodamine staining and fluorescence microscopy are also used.\n\nThe \"M. tuberculosis\" complex (MTBC) includes four other TB-causing mycobacteria: \"M. bovis\", \"M. africanum\", \"M. canetti\", and \"M. microti\". \"M. africanum\" is not widespread, but it is a significant cause of tuberculosis in parts of Africa. \"M. bovis\" was once a common cause of tuberculosis, but the introduction of pasteurized milk has almost completely eliminated this as a public health problem in developed countries. \"M. canetti\" is rare and seems to be limited to the Horn of Africa, although a few cases have been seen in African emigrants. \"M. microti\" is also rare and is seen almost only in immunodeficient people, although its prevalence may be significantly underestimated.\n\nOther known pathogenic mycobacteria include \"M. leprae\", \"M. avium\", and \"M. kansasii\". The latter two species are classified as \"nontuberculous mycobacteria\" (NTM). NTM cause neither TB nor leprosy, but they do cause lung diseases that resemble TB.\n\nA number of factors make people more susceptible to TB infections. The most important risk factor globally is HIV; 13% of all people with TB are infected by the virus. This is a particular problem in sub-Saharan Africa, where rates of HIV are high. Of people without HIV who are infected with tuberculosis, about 5–10% develop active disease during their lifetimes; in contrast, 30% of those coinfected with HIV develop the active disease.\n\nTuberculosis is closely linked to both overcrowding and malnutrition, making it one of the principal diseases of poverty. Those at high risk thus include: people who inject illicit drugs, inhabitants and employees of locales where vulnerable people gather (e.g. prisons and homeless shelters), medically underprivileged and resource-poor communities, high-risk ethnic minorities, children in close contact with high-risk category patients, and health-care providers serving these patients.\n\nChronic lung disease is another significant risk factor. Silicosis increases the risk about 30-fold. Those who smoke cigarettes have nearly twice the risk of TB compared to nonsmokers.\n\nOther disease states can also increase the risk of developing tuberculosis. These include alcoholism and diabetes mellitus (three-fold increase).\n\nCertain medications, such as corticosteroids and infliximab (an anti-αTNF monoclonal antibody), are becoming increasingly important risk factors, especially in the developed world.\n\nGenetic susceptibility also exists, for which the overall importance remains undefined.\n\nWhen people with active pulmonary TB cough, sneeze, speak, sing, or spit, they expel infectious aerosol droplets 0.5 to 5.0 µm in diameter. A single sneeze can release up to 40,000 droplets. Each one of these droplets may transmit the disease, since the infectious dose of tuberculosis is very small (the inhalation of fewer than 10 bacteria may cause an infection).\n\nPeople with prolonged, frequent, or close contact with people with TB are at particularly high risk of becoming infected, with an estimated 22% infection rate. A person with active but untreated tuberculosis may infect 10–15 (or more) other people per year. Transmission should occur from only people with active TB – those with latent infection are not thought to be contagious. The probability of transmission from one person to another depends upon several factors, including the number of infectious droplets expelled by the carrier, the effectiveness of ventilation, the duration of exposure, the virulence of the \"M. tuberculosis\" strain, the level of immunity in the uninfected person, and others. The cascade of person-to-person spread can be circumvented by segregating those with active (\"overt\") TB and putting them on anti-TB drug regimens. After about two weeks of effective treatment, subjects with nonresistant active infections generally do not remain contagious to others. If someone does become infected, it typically takes three to four weeks before the newly infected person becomes infectious enough to transmit the disease to others.\n\nAbout 90% of those infected with \"M. tuberculosis\" have asymptomatic, latent TB infections (sometimes called LTBI), with only a 10% lifetime chance that the latent infection will progress to overt, active tuberculous disease. In those with HIV, the risk of developing active TB increases to nearly 10% a year. If effective treatment is not given, the death rate for active TB cases is up to 66%.\n\nTB infection begins when the mycobacteria reach the alveolar air sacs of the lungs, where they invade and replicate within endosomes of alveolar macrophages. Macrophages identify the bacterium as foreign and attempt to eliminate it by phagocytosis. During this process, the bacterium is enveloped by the macrophage and stored temporarily in a membrane-bound vesicle called a phagosome. The phagosome then combines with a lysosome to create a phagolysosome. In the phagolysosome, the cell attempts to use reactive oxygen species and acid to kill the bacterium. However, \"M. tuberculosis\" has a thick, waxy mycolic acid capsule that protects it from these toxic substances. \"M. tuberculosis\" is able to reproduce inside the macrophage and will eventually kill the immune cell.\n\nThe primary site of infection in the lungs, known as the \"Ghon focus\", is generally located in either the upper part of the lower lobe, or the lower part of the upper lobe. Tuberculosis of the lungs may also occur via infection from the blood stream. This is known as a Simon focus and is typically found in the top of the lung. This hematogenous transmission can also spread infection to more distant sites, such as peripheral lymph nodes, the kidneys, the brain, and the bones. All parts of the body can be affected by the disease, though for unknown reasons it rarely affects the heart, skeletal muscles, pancreas, or thyroid.\n\nTuberculosis is classified as one of the granulomatous inflammatory diseases. Macrophages, T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes, and fibroblasts aggregate to form granulomas, with lymphocytes surrounding the infected macrophages. When other macrophages attack the infected macrophage, they fuse together to form a giant multinucleated cell in the alveolar lumen. The granuloma may prevent dissemination of the mycobacteria and provide a local environment for interaction of cells of the immune system. However, more recent evidence suggests that the bacteria use the granulomas to avoid destruction by the host's immune system. Macrophages and dendritic cells in the granulomas are unable to present antigen to lymphocytes; thus the immune response is suppressed. Bacteria inside the granuloma can become dormant, resulting in latent infection. Another feature of the granulomas is the development of abnormal cell death (necrosis) in the center of tubercles. To the naked eye, this has the texture of soft, white cheese and is termed caseous necrosis.\n\nIf TB bacteria gain entry to the blood stream from an area of damaged tissue, they can spread throughout the body and set up many foci of infection, all appearing as tiny, white tubercles in the tissues. This severe form of TB disease, most common in young children and those with HIV, is called miliary tuberculosis. People with this disseminated TB have a high fatality rate even with treatment (about 30%).\n\nIn many people, the infection waxes and wanes. Tissue destruction and necrosis are often balanced by healing and fibrosis. Affected tissue is replaced by scarring and cavities filled with caseous necrotic material. During active disease, some of these cavities are joined to the air passages (bronchi) and this material can be coughed up. It contains living bacteria, and thus can spread the infection. Treatment with appropriate antibiotics kills bacteria and allows healing to take place. Upon cure, affected areas are eventually replaced by scar tissue.\n\nDiagnosing active tuberculosis based only on signs and symptoms is difficult, as is diagnosing the disease in those who have a weakened immune system. A diagnosis of TB should, however, be considered in those with signs of lung disease or constitutional symptoms lasting longer than two weeks. A chest X-ray and multiple sputum cultures for acid-fast bacilli are typically part of the initial evaluation. Interferon-γ release assays and tuberculin skin tests are of little use in the developing world. Interferon gamma release assays (IGRA) have similar limitations in those with HIV.\n\nA definitive diagnosis of TB is made by identifying \"M. tuberculosis\" in a clinical sample (e.g., sputum, pus, or a tissue biopsy). However, the difficult culture process for this slow-growing organism can take two to six weeks for blood or sputum culture. Thus, treatment is often begun before cultures are confirmed.\n\nNucleic acid amplification tests and adenosine deaminase testing may allow rapid diagnosis of TB. These tests, however, are not routinely recommended, as they rarely alter how a person is treated. Blood tests to detect antibodies are not specific or sensitive, so they are not recommended.\n\nThe Mantoux tuberculin skin test is often used to screen people at high risk for TB. Those who have been previously immunized with the Bacille Calmette-Guerin vaccine may have a false-positive test result. The test may be falsely negative in those with sarcoidosis, Hodgkin's lymphoma, malnutrition, and most notably, active tuberculosis. Interferon gamma release assays, on a blood sample, are recommended in those who are positive to the Mantoux test. These are not affected by immunization or most environmental mycobacteria, so they generate fewer false-positive results. However, they are affected by \"M. szulgai\", \"M. marinum\", and \"M. kansasii\". IGRAs may increase sensitivity when used in addition to the skin test, but may be less sensitive than the skin test when used alone.\n\nTuberculosis prevention and control efforts rely primarily on the vaccination of infants and the detection and appropriate treatment of active cases. The World Health Organization has achieved some success with improved treatment regimens, and a small decrease in case numbers. The US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends screening people who are at high risk for latent tuberculosis with either tuberculin skin tests or interferon-gamma release assays.\n\nThe only available vaccine as of 2011 is Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG). In children it decreases the risk of getting the infection by 20% and the risk of infection turning into active disease by nearly 60%.\n\nIt is the most widely used vaccine worldwide, with more than 90% of all children being vaccinated. The immunity it induces decreases after about ten years. As tuberculosis is uncommon in most of Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States, BCG is administered to only those people at high risk. Part of the reasoning against the use of the vaccine is that it makes the tuberculin skin test falsely positive, reducing the test's usefulness as a screening tool. A number of new vaccines are currently in development.\n\nThe World Health Organization declared TB a \"global health emergency\" in 1993, and in 2006, the Stop TB Partnership developed a Global Plan to Stop Tuberculosis that aimed to save 14 million lives between its launch and 2015. A number of targets they set were not achieved by 2015, mostly due to the increase in HIV-associated tuberculosis and the emergence of multiple drug-resistant tuberculosis. A tuberculosis classification system developed by the American Thoracic Society is used primarily in public health programs.\n\nTreatment of TB uses antibiotics to kill the bacteria. Effective TB treatment is difficult, due to the unusual structure and chemical composition of the mycobacterial cell wall, which hinders the entry of drugs and makes many antibiotics ineffective.\n\nLatent TB is treated with either isoniazid alone, or a combination of isoniazid with either rifampicin or rifapentine. The treatment takes at least three months. People with latent infections are treated to prevent them from progressing to active TB disease later in life.\n\nActive TB disease is best treated with combinations of several antibiotics to reduce the risk of the bacteria developing antibiotic resistance.\n\nThe recommended treatment of new-onset pulmonary tuberculosis, as of 2010, is six months of a combination of antibiotics containing rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol for the first two months, and only rifampicin and isoniazid for the last four months. Where resistance to isoniazid is high, ethambutol may be added for the last four months as an alternative.\n\nIf tuberculosis recurs, testing to determine which antibiotics it is sensitive to is important before determining treatment. If multiple drug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) is detected, treatment with at least four effective antibiotics for 18 to 24 months is recommended.\n\nDirectly observed therapy, i.e., having a health care provider watch the person take their medications, is recommended by the WHO in an effort to reduce the number of people not appropriately taking antibiotics. The evidence to support this practice over people simply taking their medications independently is of poor quality. There is no strong evidence indicating that directly observed therapy improves the number of people who were cured or the number of people who complete their medicine. Moderate quality evidence suggests that there is also no difference if people are observed at home versus at a clinic, or by a family member versus a health care worker. Methods to remind people of the importance of treatment and appointments may result in a small but important improvement.\n\nPrimary resistance occurs when a person becomes infected with a resistant strain of TB. A person with fully susceptible MTB may develop secondary (acquired) resistance during therapy because of inadequate treatment, not taking the prescribed regimen appropriately (lack of compliance), or using low-quality medication. Drug-resistant TB is a serious public health issue in many developing countries, as its treatment is longer and requires more expensive drugs. MDR-TB is defined as resistance to the two most effective first-line TB drugs: rifampicin and isoniazid. Extensively drug-resistant TB is also resistant to three or more of the six classes of second-line drugs. Totally drug-resistant TB is resistant to all currently used drugs. It was first observed in 2003 in Italy, but not widely reported until 2012, and has also been found in Iran and India. Bedaquiline is tentatively supported for use in multiple drug-resistant TB.\n\nXDR-TB is a term sometimes used to define \"extensively resistant\" TB, and constitutes one in ten cases of MDR-TB. Cases of XDR TB have been identified in more than 90% of countries.\n\nProgression from TB infection to overt TB disease occurs when the bacilli overcome the immune system defenses and begin to multiply. In primary TB disease (some 1–5% of cases), this occurs soon after the initial infection. However, in the majority of cases, a latent infection occurs with no obvious symptoms. These dormant bacilli produce active tuberculosis in 5–10% of these latent cases, often many years after infection.\n\nThe risk of reactivation increases with immunosuppression, such as that caused by infection with HIV. In people coinfected with \"M. tuberculosis\" and HIV, the risk of reactivation increases to 10% per year. Studies using DNA fingerprinting of \"M. tuberculosis\" strains have shown reinfection contributes more substantially to recurrent TB than previously thought, with estimates that it might account for more than 50% of reactivated cases in areas where TB is common. The chance of death from a case of tuberculosis is about 4% as of 2008, down from 8% in 1995.\n\nRoughly one-quarter of the world's population has been infected with \"M. tuberculosis\", with new infections occurring in about 1% of the population each year. However, most infections with \"M. tuberculosis\" do not cause TB disease, and 90–95% of infections remain asymptomatic. In 2012, an estimated 8.6 million chronic cases were active. In 2010, 8.8 million new cases of TB were diagnosed, and 1.20–1.45 million deaths occurred, most of these occurring in developing countries. Of these 1.45 million deaths, about 0.35 million occur in those also infected with HIV.\n\nTuberculosis is the second-most common cause of death from infectious disease (after those due to HIV/AIDS). The total number of tuberculosis cases has been decreasing since 2005, while new cases have decreased since 2002. China has achieved particularly dramatic progress, with about an 80% reduction in its TB mortality rate between 1990 and 2010. The number of new cases has declined by 17% between 2004 and 2014. Tuberculosis is more common in developing countries; about 80% of the population in many Asian and African countries test positive in tuberculin tests, while only 5–10% of the US population test positive. Hopes of totally controlling the disease have been dramatically dampened because of a number of factors, including the difficulty of developing an effective vaccine, the expensive and time-consuming diagnostic process, the necessity of many months of treatment, the increase in HIV-associated tuberculosis, and the emergence of drug-resistant cases in the 1980s.\n\nIn 2007, the country with the highest estimated incidence rate of TB was Swaziland, with 1,200 cases per 100,000 people. India had the largest total incidence, with an estimated 2.0 million new cases. In developed countries, tuberculosis is less common and is found mainly in urban areas. Rates per 100,000 people in different areas of the world were: globally 178, Africa 332, the Americas 36, Eastern Mediterranean 173, Europe 63, Southeast Asia 278, and Western Pacific 139 in 2010. In Canada and Australia, tuberculosis is many times more common among the aboriginal peoples, especially in remote areas. In the United States Native Americans have a fivefold greater mortality from TB, and racial and ethnic minorities accounted for 84% of all reported TB cases.\n\nThe rates of TB varies with age. In Africa, it primarily affects adolescents and young adults. However, in countries where incidence rates have declined dramatically (such as the United States), TB is mainly a disease of older people and the immunocompromised (risk factors are listed above).\nWorldwide, 22 \"high-burden\" states or countries together experience 80% of cases as well as 83% of deaths.\n\nThe routine use of rifabutin instead of rifampicin in HIV-positive people with tuberculosis is of unclear benefit as of 2007.\n\nTuberculosis has been present in humans since antiquity. The earliest unambiguous detection of \"M. tuberculosis\" involves evidence of the disease in the remains of bison in Wyoming dated to around 17,000 years ago. However, whether tuberculosis originated in bovines, then was transferred to humans, or whether it diverged from a common ancestor, is currently unclear. A comparison of the genes of \"M. tuberculosis\" complex (MTBC) in humans to MTBC in animals suggests humans did not acquire MTBC from animals during animal domestication, as was previously believed. Both strains of the tuberculosis bacteria share a common ancestor, which could have infected humans even before the Neolithic Revolution. Skeletal remains show prehistoric humans (4000 BC) had TB, and researchers have found tubercular decay in the spines of Egyptian mummies dating from 3000–2400 BC. Genetic studies suggest TB was present in the Americas from about 100 AD.\n\nBefore the Industrial Revolution, folklore often associated tuberculosis with vampires. When one member of a family died from it, the other infected members would lose their health slowly. People believed this was caused by the original person with TB draining the life from the other family members.\n\nAlthough the pulmonary form associated with tubercles was established as a pathology by Richard Morton in 1689, due to the variety of its symptoms, TB was not identified as a single disease until the 1820s. It was not named \"tuberculosis\" until 1839, by J. L. Schönlein. During 1838–1845, Dr. John Croghan, the owner of Mammoth Cave, brought a number of people with tuberculosis into the cave in the hope of curing the disease with the constant temperature and purity of the cave air; they died within a year. Hermann Brehmer opened the first TB sanatorium in 1859 in Görbersdorf (now Sokołowsko), Silesia.\n\nThe bacillus causing tuberculosis, \"M. tuberculosis\", was identified and described on 24 March 1882 by Robert Koch. He received the Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine in 1905 for this discovery. Koch did not believe the bovine (cattle) and human tuberculosis diseases were similar, which delayed the recognition of infected milk as a source of infection. Later, the risk of transmission from this source was dramatically reduced by the invention of the pasteurization process. Koch announced a glycerine extract of the tubercle bacilli as a \"remedy\" for tuberculosis in 1890, calling it \"tuberculin\". While it was not effective, it was later successfully adapted as a screening test for the presence of pre-symptomatic tuberculosis. The World Tuberculosis Day is marked on 24 March each year, the anniversary of Koch’s original scientific announcement.\n\nAlbert Calmette and Camille Guérin achieved the first genuine success in immunization against tuberculosis in 1906, using attenuated bovine-strain tuberculosis. It was called bacille Calmette–Guérin (BCG). The BCG vaccine was first used on humans in 1921 in France, but received widespread acceptance in the US, Great Britain, and Germany only after World War II.\n\nTuberculosis caused widespread public concern in the 19th and early 20th centuries as the disease became common among the urban poor. In 1815, one in four deaths in England was due to \"consumption\". By 1918, one in six deaths in France was still caused by TB. After TB was determined to be contagious, in the 1880s, it was put on a notifiable disease list in Britain; campaigns were started to stop people from spitting in public places, and the infected poor were \"encouraged\" to enter sanatoria that resembled prisons (the sanatoria for the middle and upper classes offered excellent care and constant medical attention). Whatever the benefits of the \"fresh air\" and labor in the sanatoria, even under the best conditions, 50% of those who entered died within five years (c. 1916). When the Medical Research Council was formed in Britain in 1913, its initial focus was tuberculosis research.\nIn Europe, rates of tuberculosis began to rise in the early 1600s to a peak level in the 1800s, when it caused nearly 25% of all deaths. By the 1950s, mortality in Europe had decreased about 90%. Improvements in sanitation, vaccination, and other public health measures began significantly reducing rates of tuberculosis even before the arrival of streptomycin and other antibiotics, although the disease remained a significant threat. In 1946, the development of the antibiotic streptomycin made effective treatment and cure of TB a reality. Prior to the introduction of this medication, the only treatment was surgical intervention, including the \"pneumothorax technique\", which involved collapsing an infected lung to \"rest\" it and allow tuberculous lesions to heal.\nBecause of the emergence of MDR-TB, surgery has been re-introduced for certain cases of TB infections. It involves removal of infected chest cavities (\"bullae\") in the lungs to reduce the number of bacteria and to increase exposure of the remaining bacteria to antibiotics in the bloodstream. Hopes of completely eliminating TB were ended with the rise of drug-resistant strains in the 1980s. The subsequent resurgence of tuberculosis resulted in the declaration of a global health emergency by the World Health Organization in 1993.\n\nTuberculosis has been known by many names from the technical to the familiar. \"Phthisis\" (Φθισις) is a Greek word for consumption, an old term for pulmonary tuberculosis; around 460 BCE, Hippocrates described phthisis as a disease of dry seasons. The abbreviation \"TB\" is short for \"tubercle bacillus\". \"Consumption\" was the most common nineteenth century English word for the disease. The Latin root \"con\" meaning \"completely\" is linked to \"sumere\" meaning \"to take up from under.\" In \"The Life and Death of Mr Badman\" by John Bunyan, the author calls consumption \"the captain of all these men of death.\" \"Great white plague\" has also been used.\n\nTuberculosis was for centuries associated with poetic and artistic qualities among those infected, and was also known as \"the romantic disease\". Major artistic figures such as the poets John Keats, Percy Bysshe Shelley, and Edgar Allan Poe, the composer Frédéric Chopin, the playwright Anton Chekhov, the novelists Franz Kafka, Katherine Mansfield, Charlotte Brontë, Fyodor Dostoevsky, Thomas Mann, W. Somerset Maugham, and Robert Louis Stevenson, and the artists Alice Neel, Jean-Antoine Watteau, Elizabeth Siddal, Marie Bashkirtseff, Edvard Munch, Aubrey Beardsley and Amedeo Modigliani either had the disease or were surrounded by people who did. A widespread belief was that tuberculosis assisted artistic talent. Physical mechanisms proposed for this effect included the slight fever and toxaemia that it caused, allegedly helping them to see life more clearly and to act decisively.\n\nTuberculosis formed an often-reused theme in literature, as in Thomas Mann's \"The Magic Mountain\", set in a sanatorium; in music, as in Van Morrison's song \"T.B. Sheets\"; in opera, as in Puccini's \"La bohème\" and Verdi's \"La Traviata\"; in art, as in Monet's painting of his first wife Camille on her deathbed; and in film, such as the 1945 \"The Bells of St. Mary's\" starring Ingrid Bergman as a nun with tuberculosis.\n\nThe World Health Organization, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and US government are subsidizing a fast-acting diagnostic tuberculosis test for use in low- and middle-income countries. In addition to being fast-acting, the test can determine if there is resistance to the antibiotic rifampicin which may indicate multi-drug resistant tuberculosis and is accurate in those who are also infected with HIV. Many resource-poor places as of 2011 have access to only sputum microscopy.\n\nIndia had the highest total number of TB cases worldwide in 2010, in part due to poor disease management within the private and public health care sector. Programs such as the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program are working to reduce TB levels amongst people receiving public health care.\n\nA 2014 the EIU-healthcare report that the need to address apathy and urging for increased funding. The report cites among others Lucica Ditui \"[TB] is like an orphan. It has been neglected even in countries with a high burden and often forgotten by donors and those investing in health interventions.\"\n\nSlow progress has led to frustration, expressed by the executive director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria – Mark Dybul: \"we have the tools to end TB as a pandemic and public health threat on the planet, but we are not doing it.\" Several international organizations are pushing for more transparency in treatment, and more countries are implementing mandatory reporting of cases to the government, although adherence is often sketchy. Commercial treatment providers may at times overprescribe second-line drugs as well as supplementary treatment, promoting demands for further regulations. The government of Brazil provides universal TB-care, which reduces this problem. Conversely, falling rates of TB-infection may not relate to the number of programs directed at reducing infection rates but may be tied to increased level of education, income, and health of the population. Costs of the disease, as calculated by the World Bank in 2009 may exceed 150 billion USD per year in \"high burden\" countries. Lack of progress eradicating the disease may also be due to lack of patient follow-up – as among the 250M rural migrants in China.\n\nSlow progress in preventing the disease may in part be due to stigma associated with TB. Stigma may be due to the fear of transmission from affected individuals. This stigma may additionally arise due to links between TB and poverty, and in Africa, AIDS. Such stigmatization may be both real and perceived; for example, in Ghana individuals with TB are banned from attending public gatherings.\n\nStigma towards TB may result in delays in seeking treatment, lower treatment compliance, and family members keeping cause of death secret – allowing the disease to spread further. In contrast, in Russia stigma was associated with increased treatment compliance. TB stigma also affects socially marginalized individuals to a greater degree and varies between regions.\n\nOne way to decrease stigma may be through the promotion of \"TB clubs\", where those infected may share experiences and offer support, or through counseling. Some studies have shown TB education programs to be effective in decreasing stigma, and may thus be effective in increasing treatment adherence. Despite this, studies on the relationship between reduced stigma and mortality are lacking as of 2010, and similar efforts to decrease stigma surrounding AIDS have been minimally effective. Some have claimed the stigma to be worse than the disease, and healthcare providers may unintentionally reinforce stigma, as those with TB are often perceived as difficult or otherwise undesirable. A greater understanding of the social and cultural dimensions of tuberculosis may also help with stigma reduction.\n\nThe BCG vaccine has limitations, and research to develop new TB vaccines is ongoing. A number of potential candidates are currently in phase I and II clinical trials. Two main approaches are being used to attempt to improve the efficacy of available vaccines. One approach involves adding a subunit vaccine to BCG, while the other strategy is attempting to create new and better live vaccines. MVA85A, an example of a subunit vaccine, currently in trials in South Africa, is based on a genetically modified vaccinia virus. Vaccines are hoped to play a significant role in treatment of both latent and active disease.\n\nTo encourage further discovery, researchers and policymakers are promoting new economic models of vaccine development, including prizes, tax incentives, and advance market commitments. A number of groups, including the Stop TB Partnership, the South African Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative, and the Aeras Global TB Vaccine Foundation, are involved with research. Among these, the Aeras Global TB Vaccine Foundation received a gift of more than $280 million (US) from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to develop and license an improved vaccine against tuberculosis for use in high burden countries.\n\nA number of medications are being studied for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, including bedaquiline and delamanid. Bedaquiline received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval in late 2012. The safety and effectiveness of these new agents are still uncertain, because they are based on the results of relatively small studies. However, existing data suggest that patients taking bedaquiline in addition to standard TB therapy are five times more likely to die than those without the new drug, which has resulted in medical journal articles raising health policy questions about why the FDA approved the drug and whether financial ties to the company making bedaquiline influenced physicians' support for its use.\n\nMycobacteria infect many different animals, including birds, rodents, and reptiles. The subspecies \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\", though, is rarely present in wild animals. An effort to eradicate bovine tuberculosis caused by \"Mycobacterium bovis\" from the cattle and deer herds of New Zealand has been relatively successful. Efforts in Great Britain have been less successful.\n\n, tuberculosis appears to be widespread among captive elephants in the US. It is believed that the animals originally acquired the disease from humans, a process called reverse zoonosis. Because the disease can spread through the air to infect both humans and other animals, it is a public health concern affecting circuses and zoos.\n\n"}
{"id": "28016564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28016564", "title": "Two-step floating catchment area method", "text": "Two-step floating catchment area method\n\nThe two-step floating catchment area (2SFCA) method is a method for combining a number of related types of information into a single, immediately meaningful, index that allows comparisons to be made across different locations. Its importance lies in the improvement over considering the individual sources of information separately, where none on its own provides an adequate summary.\n\nThe two-step floating catchment area (2SFCA) method is a special case of a gravity model of spatial interaction that was developed to measure spatial accessibility to primary care physicians. 2SFCA can also be used to measure other accessibility such as accessibility to jobs, to cancer care facilities, etc. It was inspired by the spatial decomposition idea first proposed by Radke and Mu (2000).\n\nThe 2SFCA method not only has most of the advantages of a gravity model, but is also intuitive to interpret, as it uses essentially a special form of physician-to-population ratio. It is easy to implement in a GIS environment. In essence, the 2SFCA method measures spatial accessibility as a ratio of primary-care physicians to population, combining two steps:\n\nIt has been recently enhanced by considering distance decay within catchments and called the enhanced two-step floating catchment area (E2SFCA) method.\n\nFurthermore, the use of capping certain services according to nearby population size,can improve the accuracy when analyzing across areas of different environments (i.e. rural and urban).\n\nThe method has been applied to other related public health issues, such as access to healthy food retailers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14753861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14753861", "title": "Unwarranted variation", "text": "Unwarranted variation\n\nUnwarranted variation (or geographic variation) in health care service delivery refers to medical practice pattern variation that cannot be explained by illness, medical need, or the dictates of evidence-based medicine.\n\nUnwarranted variation (or geographic variation) in health care service delivery refers to differences that cannot be explained by illness, medical need, or the dictates of evidence-based medicine. The term was coined by Dr. John Wennberg. \nIt can be caused by shortfalls in three areas:\n\n\nIn 1967, while working in the Regional Medical Program created with a $350,000 grant from President Lyndon Johnson, Wennberg analyzed Medicare data to determine how well hospitals and doctors were serving their communities. He found 4 types of variation: the underuse of effective care, variations in outcomes attributable to the quality of care, the misuse of preference-sensitive treatments and overuse of supply-sensitive services.\n\nAccording to Health Dialog, a privately held, for-profit disease-management company which was established to address unwarranted variation:\nIf you live in northern Idaho, and you develop back pain, chances are good that you’ll undergo surgery to treat your pain. Move to the southern tip of Texas, however, and the chances that you’ll undergo that same surgery will drop by a factor of 6. The surgery is no more effective in Idaho than it is in Texas. It’s just that doctors in the northwest are more likely than those in southern Texas to recommend surgery. This phenomenon, in which doctors practice medicine differently depending on where they’re from, is called practice pattern variation. And it isn’t limited to treating back pain, or even surgical decisions. There is also variation in treatment for chronic conditions, such as use of beta blockers for individuals with Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) or lipid testing for those with diabetes.\n\nWennberg and colleagues at the Dartmouth Center for Evaluative Clinical Sciences documented these wide variations in how healthcare is practiced around the United States. They have asserted that most of this variation is unwarranted. Health Dialog was built to address unwarranted variation in healthcare: the overuse, underuse and misuse of medical care. Wennberg and his colleagues concluded that if unwarranted variation in the US healthcare system could be reduced, the quality of care would go up and healthcare costs would go down. Studies have shown that if unwarranted variation could be reduced in the Medicare population, quality of care would rise dramatically and costs could be lowered by as much as 30%.\nUnwarranted variation in medical practice is costly and deadly as noted by Martin Sipkoff in \"9 Ways To Reduce Unwarranted Variation\". Analysis of Medicare data revealed that per-capita spending per enrollee in Miami was almost 2.5 times as much as in Minneapolis, even after adjusting data for age, sex, and race. According to a 2003 report from the National Committee for Quality Assurance 57,000 lives were lost annually because US physicians have not been using evidence-based medicine to guide their care.\n\n\"We're literally dying, waiting for the practice of medicine to catch up with medical knowledge,\" said Margaret O'Kane, president of NCQA. The report, \"The State of Health Care Quality 2003,\" says that the deaths \"should not be confused with those attributable to medical errors or lack of access to health care. This report shows that a thousand Americans die each week because the care they get is not consistent with the care that medical science tells us they should get.\"\n\nStudies show that individuals with diabetes should have blood lipids monitored regularly, yet patients in Chicago are 50% less likely to receive these tests than patients in Fort Lauderdale. A patient with heart disease in Bloomington, Indiana, is three times more likely to have bypass surgery than a similar patient in Albuquerque. In Miami, where medical services are abundant, Medicare pays more than twice as much per person per year as it does in Minneapolis, with no discernible difference in overall health or life expectancy.\n\nIn November 2010 the Department of Health QIPP Right Care programme published the first NHS Atlas of Variation in Healthcare, inspired by the work of Wennberg. clinicians selected 34 topics, as being important to their speciality, which were mapped by Primary Care Trust area, then the healthcare commissioning body. The Atlas was published to challenge commissioners to maximise health outcome and minimise inequalities by addressing unwarranted variation.\n\"Awareness is the first important step in identifying and addressing unwarranted variation; if the existence of variation is unknown, the debate about whether it is unwarranted cannot take place.\"\n\nThe 2010 Atlas revealed widespread variations in outcome, quality, cost and activity:\n\nA further extended Atlas was published in November 2011, mapping variation across 71 indicators and a follow-on series of Atlases focussing on specific themes in more depth like children and young people, diabetes, kidney disease and respiratory disease.\nA forthcoming atlas will be about liver disease, diagnostics, organ donation and transplantation. \nPublication of the Atlases has been well-received within the NHS and by patient groups and clinical societies.\nIn 2012, the British Department of Health published a mandate for the new NHS Commissioning Board. On variation in healthcare, the Mandate charged the Board with the responsibility to \"shine a light on variation\" and \"to make significant progress... in reducing unjustified variation... Success will be measured not only by the average level of improvement but also by progress in reducing health inequalities and unjustified variation.\"\n\nIn April 2016, Jane Cummings, Chief Nursing Officer (CNO) for England, launched a national strategic framework for nurses, midwives and care staff in England called Leading Change, Adding Value. This framework sets out the 10 commitments for nurses, midwives and care staff in England towards identifying and addressing unwarranted variation in care practice. The framework builds on the previous CNO strategy 'Compassion in Practice' and identifies the nursing, midwifery and care staff approach to meeting the triple aims of 'improving health outcomes, reducing the care quality gap and effective use of resources' as set out in the Department of Health's Five Year Forward View. Actions to address unwarranted variation in nursing, midwifery and care provision are underpinned by the values of the 6cs, and a skills and knowledge framework is being developed to support staff in delivering on the 10 commitments set out in the framework.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56481472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56481472", "title": "Vaginal support structures", "text": "Vaginal support structures\n\nThe vaginal support structures are those muscles, bones, ligaments, tendons, membranes and fascia, of the pelvic floor that maintain the position of the vagina within the pelvic cavity and allow the normal functioning of the vagina and other reproductive structures in the female. Defects or injuries to these support structures in the pelvic floor leads to pelvic organ prolapse. Anatomical and congenital variations of vaginal support structures can predispose a woman to further dysfunction and prolapse later in life.The urethra is part of the anterior wall of the vagina and damage to the support structures there can lead to incontinence and urinary retention.\n\nThe support for the vagina is provided by muscles, membranes, tendons and ligaments. These structures are attached to the hip bones. These bones are the pubis, ilium and ischium.The interior surface of these pelvic bones and their projections and contours are used as attachment sites for the fascia, muscles, tendons and ligaments that support the vagina. These bones are then fuse and attach to the sacrum behind the vagina and anteriorly at the pubic symphysis. Supporting ligaments include the sacrospinous and sacrotuberous ligaments. The sacrospinous ligament is unusual in that it is thin and triangular.\n\nThe muscular pelvic diaphragm is composed of the bilateral levator ani and coccygeus muscles and these attach to the inner pelvic surface. The iliococcygeus and pubococcygeus make up the levator ani muscle. The muscles pass behind the rectum. The levator ani surrounds the opening which the urethra, rectum and vagina pass. The pubococcygeus muscle is subdivided inot the pubourethralis, pubovaginal muscle and the puborectalis muscle. The names describe the attachments of the muscles to the urethra, vagina, anus, and rectum. The names are also called the pubourethralis, pubovaginalis, puboanalis, and puborectalis muscles and sometimes the pubovisceralis since it attaches to the viscera. \n\nThe urogenital diaphragm, or perineal membrane, is present over the anterior pelvic outlet below the pelvic diaphragm. The exact structure description is controversial. Despite the controversy, MRI imaging studies support the existence of the structure.\n\nSuperficial and inferior muscles of the perineum (urogenital diaphragm):\nThe perineum attaches across the gap between the inferior pubic rami bilaterally and the perineal body. This grouping of muscles constricts to close the urogenital openings. The perineum supports and functions as a sphincter at the opening of the vagina. Other structures exist below the perineum that support the anus.\n\nThe perineal body is a pyramidal structure of muscle and connective tissue and part of it is located between the anus and vagina. It is a tendon that is formed at the point where the bulbospongiosus muscle, superficial transverse perineal muscle, and external anal sphincter muscle converge to form this major supportive structure of the pelvis and vagina. Below this, muscles and their fascia converge and become part of the perineal body. The lower vagina is attached to the perineal body by attachments from the pubococcygeus, perineal muscles, and the anal sphincter. The perineal body is made up of smooth muscle, elastic connective tissue fibers, and nerve endings. Above the perineal body are the vagina and the uterus. Damage and resulting weakness of the perineal body changes the length of the vagina and predisposes it to rectocele and enterocele.\n\nThe vagina is attached to the pelvic walls by endopelvic fascia. The peritoneum is the external layer of skin that covers the fascia. This tissue provides additional support to the pelvic floor. The endopelvic fascia is one continuous sheet of tissue and varies in thickness. It permits some shifting of the pelvic structures. The fascia contains elastic collagen fibers in a 'mesh-like' structure. The fascia also contains fibroblasts, smooth muscle, and vascular vessels. The cardinal ligament supports the apex of the vagina and derives some of its strength from vascular tissue. The endopelvic fascia attaches to the lateral pelvic wall via the arcus tendineus.\n\nNot all agree to the amount of supportive tissue or fascia exists in the anterior vaginal wall. The major point of contention is whether the vaginal fascial layer exists. Some texts do not describe a fascial layer. Other sources state that the fascia is present under the urethra which is embedded in the anterior vaginal wall. Despite disagreement, the urethra is embedded in the anterior vaginal wall.\n\nThe midsection of the vagina is supported by its lateral attachments to the arcus tendineus. Some describe the pubocervical fascia as extending from the pubic symphysis to the anterior vaginal wall and cervix. Anatomists do not agree on its existence.\n\nVaginal support structures can be damaged or weakened during childbirth or pelvic surgery. Other conditions that repeatedly strain or increase pressure in the pelvic area can also compromise support. Examples are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21483822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21483822", "title": "Youth Hostels Association (England &amp; Wales)", "text": "Youth Hostels Association (England &amp; Wales)\n\nThe Youth Hostels Association (England & Wales) is a charitable organisation, registered with the Charity Commission, providing youth hostel accommodation in England and Wales. It is a member of the Hostelling International federation.\n\nThe concept of youth hostels originated in Germany in 1909 with Richard Schirrmann and it took 20 years for the ideas to reach fruition in the United Kingdom. In 1929/30, several groups almost simultaneously formed to investigate establishing youth hostels in the UK. Foremost among these was the Merseyside Centre of the British Youth Hostels Association. On 10 April 1930, representatives of these bodies met and agreed to form the British Youth Hostels Association. Shortly afterwards, it became the Youth Hostels Association (England & Wales), with separate associations for Scotland (Scottish Youth Hostels Association) and Northern Ireland (Hostelling International Northern Ireland). Ever since its inception, it has been known as \"YHA\", using the abbreviation YHA (E&W) when necessary to distinguish it from other associations.\n\nYHA's charitable objective is stated as:\nTo help all, especially young people of limited means, to a greater knowledge, love and care of the countryside, particularly by providing hostels or other simple accommodation for them in their travels, and thus to promote their health, rest and education.\nThe first hostel to open was at Pennant Hall near Llanrwst in North Wales. Opened in December 1930, it closed in 1931 due to problems with the water supply. The water came from a nearby brook but this was contaminated by sewage from the farm next door. As was commented at the time:- \n\n[the farmer] saw no sin in mixing manure with drinking water.\n1931 saw the first widespread opening of hostels and, by the end of 1931, 75 hostels had opened, although at the end of the year 15 closed their doors not to reopen. The price of an overnight stay was 1/- (1 shilling) in every case. Annual membership was 5/- for Seniors and 2/6 for Juniors. Life membership was available for 3 guineas (£3 3s). Of the hostels opened in 1931, two remain open, Idwal Cottage and Street.\n\nAll hostels provided accommodation in single sex dormitories, usually with bunk beds. Most hostels had accommodation for both sexes, but in a few towns e.g. Southampton, separate hostels were provided for men and women. Self-catering facilities were provided at all hostels and many hostels provided a meals service.\n\nEach hostel was run by a manager known as a warden and all the hostels in an area were administered by a number of Regional Councils. Initially, there were 14 Regional Councils, but the number grew to 19 by the end of 1935. A National Office to co-ordinate policy and standards was established in Welwyn Garden City.\n\nMembership was required to stay at a hostel and everyone staying was required to assist in the running of the hostel by undertaking what were known as 'duties'. These ranged from washing up to cleaning the hostel and, in hostels with no water supply on site, replenishing the water supply.\n\nBlankets and pillows were supplied. A sheet sleeping bag was used from the outset and could be hired for a small charge, but most members chose to provide their own, carrying it with them from hostel to hostel.\n\nThe emphasis was very much on a communal atmosphere within each hostel. The use of dormitory accommodation and common rooms in every hostel reinforced this. Also the shared interests, mostly walking and cycling, of those using the hostels contributed to this spirit.\n\nFrom this rough and ready beginning, the organisation grew and grew so that, by the outbreak of World War II, there were 297 hostels and 83,000 members, with 600,000 overnight stays being recorded.\n\nIt did not take long for the fledgling organisation to obtain royal approval and in 1932 the then Prince of Wales (later Edward VIII) opened Derwent Hall hostel in Derbyshire. With its panelled walls, it became a flagship hostel for the Association.\n\nThe war had a significant effect on YHA. Membership levels in 1940 and 1941 slumped as men and women joined the armed services and leisure travel was discouraged. The number of hostels open decreased, with up to a third being closed for the duration due to their location in militarily sensitive areas. The low point was 1941, when only 170 hostels remained open and overnight stays were reduced accordingly. It wasn't only the war that led to the closure of hostels; among the hostels that closed for good was Derwent Hall, flooded as a result of the Derwent Water Board project and the creation of Ladybower Reservoir.\n\nFrom the low of 1941, things began to recover, so that by war's end over 200 hostels were open and membership was back to pre-war levels. This increase in the latter part of the war was partly due to government encouragement for factory workers to take short breaks away from the cities.\n\nWith peace, the resurgence of YHA continued until, in 1950, the peak number of hostels open was reached, with 303 open in that year. Membership continued to grow and passed the 200,000 mark in 1950. Overnight stays grew from 1.1 million in 1950 to 1.45 million in 1970.\n\nIn 1955, the National Office moved from Welwyn Garden City to St Albans, where it remained until 2002 when a further move was made to Matlock. The buildings in St Albans and Matlock were both called Trevelyan House in honour of the first president of YHA, Dr G. M. Trevelyan.\n\nIn 1964, the number of regions was reduced to ten and financial changes made to make it easier for each region to manage its own affairs.\n\nSignificant modernisation of hostels had occurred during the 1970s, but by the early 1980s it became clear to YHA that it needed to change, as the stresses and strains of running what was a large organisation began to show on what was almost entirely a volunteer-run body. Direct management of the hostels was removed from the regional committees and a professional management structure was put in place. The regional committees were themselves reformed into four regional councils; North, Central, South and Wales.\n\nWith a new management, YHA continued to thrive and by 2000 overnight stays had reached a new peak of over 2,000,000. Reflecting changes in the needs of young travellers, much effort was put into meeting a desire for less spartan facilities in hostels e.g. smaller rooms, more showers, abolishing washrooms.\n\nAs well as upgrading facilities in existing hostels, other experimental approaches to attracting young travellers were made. In 2000, a series of summer-only hostels utilising university student accommodation were opened in locations near airports e.g. Luton, Leeds. The experiment wasn't repeated in following years.\n\nA much more successful innovation was the introduction of the RentaHostel scheme. Under this scheme, groups could hire whole hostels for their own use and without normal hostel rules applying. Rentahostel was available during the winter months to improve usage of hostels that were otherwise closed or doing very little business. The scheme continues to run to the present day but is now known as Exclusive Hire..\n\nThe 2001 United Kingdom foot-and-mouth disease crisis hit YHA hard. An estimated £5,000,000 of income was lost as a consequence of hostels being closed and a drop in overnight stays from just under 2,000,000 to 1,667,000. Some hostels, such as Baldersdale, were totally inaccessible as they were within quarantine zones. This left YHA in a serious financial crisis and severe measures needed to be taken. The board of trustees agreed to sell 10 hostels at the end of 2002, the sites being Aysgarth, Linton (North Yorkshire), Dufton, Elton, Buxton, Copt Oak, Thurlby, Norwich, Windsor and Holmbury St Mary. Internal and local pressure saved Dufton and Holmbury St Mary from closure and Thurlby was sold to Lincolnshire County Council who rented it back to YHA to continue as a hostel.\n\nThe YHA charitable object has changed over the years, most recently in 2005 when the objective was changed to:\n″To help all, especially young people of limited means, to a greater knowledge, love and care of the countryside, and appreciation of the cultural values of towns and cities, particularly by providing youth hostels or other accommodation for them in their travels, and thus to promote their health, recreation and education.″\n\nYHA has been investing in its youth hostels. Investment is funded largely from turnover and from the sale of property. Donations, legacies and funds from other organisations and agencies also contribute. Since 2006, YHA has invested £48.5-million and opened six new youth hostels: Whitby, North Yorkshire; National Forest, Derbyshire; Berwick-on-Tweed, Northumberland; Castleton, Derbyshire; on the South Downs near Southease in East Sussex, and in London.\n\nIn 2006, YHA announced the largest plan of network renewal. YHA regularly monitors all its hostels to establish if they are still viable and if necessary closes those that are no longer viable or have no prospects of becoming viable again in the future. However, the network renewal project was on top of this regular review and was a proposal to close and dispose of 32 hostels when it was announced. The aim of the exercise was to reduce borrowing and to provide funds for re-investment into the network. The closures were to take place over a three-year period, over and above the 13 others disposed of in the same period. The hostels involved were not necessarily poor performers but ones where the amount of investment required to bring them up to a desired standard was excessive e.g. Steps Bridge, or in some cases because the site value was very high, e.g. Stainforth. When the news broke, there was a storm of protest not only among the membership, but also in local communities and local and regional government.\nDespite the protests, YHA proceeded with the plan. Some hostels, e.g. Liverpool, have obtained reprieves either temporary or permanent and are still open but most of the other disposals have taken place. A number of the hostels disposed of have reopened, either as independent hostels or as Enterprise hostels within YHA.\n\nIn 2008, as part of the move towards raising standards, YHA replaced the traditional sheet sleeping bag with a fitted bottom sheet, duvet cover and pillow cases. From 2015, guests at most youth hostels found their beds already made for them.\n\nIn 2014, a new youth hostel opened in Brighton.\n\nIn 2015, a new youth hostel opened in Cardiff, which quickly became the only hostel in the YHA network to be awarded 5 stars by Visit Wales/Visit England. In December 2015, YHA Cardiff Central won Best Accommodation at the 2015 British Youth Travel Awards.\n\nYHA has a network of around 140 youth hostels. In the last ten years, YHA has sold or not renewed the leases on 86 properties. Of these, 21 have continued to run as part of the YHA network under a licensing scheme, YHA Enterprise. The sales of those properties has netted YHA over £20-million. However, YHA continues to make a small operating loss. The value of the property portfolio prices was £77.15-million.\nIn May 2010, YHA announced that, in a further realignment of the network and to support long term financial stability called the \"Capital Strategy\", two new hostels would open in 2010 and eight would close. The two new hostels were Southease in Sussex and Berwick on Tweed. Those closed were Capel Curig (Gwynedd), Exeter (Devon), Grasmere Thorney Howe (Cumbria), Hunstanton (Norfolk), Kendal (Cumbria), River Dart (Devon), Saffron Walden (Essex), and Scarborough (North Yorkshire).\n\nBy the beginning of 2011, Capel Curig and Grasmere had both been sold and negotiations were in progress to sell the remainder (with the exception of Exeter - now expected to close at the end of Summer 2011). On 8 February 2011, a further update to the \"Capital Strategy\" was announced that will see £4-million invested in the hostels at Black Sail (Lake District), Woody's Top (Lincolnshire), Wilderhope (Shropshire), Rowen (Snowdonia), Grinton Lodge (North Yorkshire), Salcombe (Devon), Poppit Sands (Pembrokeshire), Tintagel (Cornwall) and Wells-next-the-Sea (Norfolk). At the same time, the closure of a further nine hostels was announced, with the intention to begin the sales at the end of Summer 2011. The hostels to close are Derwentwater, Helvellyn, Hawkshead (all Lake District), Osmotherley (North Yorkshire), Salisbury (Wiltshire), Arundel (Sussex), Totland Bay (Isle of Wight) and YHA Newcastle (Northumberland).\n\nIn the first years of YHA (1931–1934), due to the rapid change in the number of hostels available, the handbook was issued more than once each year. From 1935, the pattern settled into an annual publication issued to all members. In 2003, this became a biennial publication. One was due for the period 2009–10 but has been delayed. Instead, a slimmer update booklet containing less information than in previous years has been issued. Since 2007, YHA has no longer produced an annual guidebook and relies on its website to show hostel information.\n\n\"The Rucksack\" was YHA's first magazine. First issued in 1932, it ran until 1956 when it was retitled \"The Youth Hosteller\", although issue numbers continued the same series. Publication varied between quarterly in the early years to monthly in later years. The contents consisted of hostel reviews, travel articles, regional and local group news, a letters column and updates to the handbook. Publication ceased after the February 1972 issue (volume 39, no. 7, priced at five new pence, and reduced to bi-monthly appearance following December 1970), when an editorial explained that the magazine was to be \"transmogrified\".\n\nThe successor to \"The Youth Hosteller\", \"Hostelling News\" ran from Spring 1972 until Summer 1985 (issue no. 54). A quarterly newspaper-style publication, free to members, it followed in much the same vein as its predecessors. \"Hostelling News\" was replaced in Autumn 1985 by \"YHA Magazine\", a colour magazine in A4 format, which was rebranded as \"YHA Triangle\" in Summer 1989 (issue no. 15) and which thereafter continued as a quarterly publication until Autumn 1994 (issue no 31). From Spring/Summer 1995 (issue no 32), it became a biannual publication, continuing until the Autumn/Winter issue of 2006 (being the fifty-fifth issue, although no longer officially numbered as such). Following a further rebranding exercise, \"Triangle\" was replaced by the smaller format \"Discover\" but this only lasted for three issues (Spring/Summer and Autumn/Winter 2007, and Spring/Summer 2008) before publication was put into abeyance.\n\nIn Spring 2009, a shorter eight-page A4 colour publication \"YHA Life\" appeared (an undated four-page pilot version, with a focus on fundraising, was issued in 2008).\n\n\"YHA News\" appeared between 1992 and 2005. Unlike all the other publications after Spring 1972, which had been made available to all members, YHA News was only available by subscription. Its contents were much more aimed at those involved more actively with YHA. The opinions expressed were not necessarily those of YHA.\n\nYHA has produced a monthly e-newsletter \"The Wanderer\" since 2013.\n\nOver the years, there have been many regional handbooks produced showcasing hostels in a particular region.\n\nThe \"YHA Songbook\" was first published in 1952. Common room sing-songs were popular and the songbook was published by YHA as:\n\nMany a common room sing-song has been marred because few of the hostelers know more than the first verses of the songs, and all too frequently the item that begins as a rousing chorus ends as a faltering solo. A few keen singers find a place in their rucksack or saddle-bag for a song book, but if as a result some half-dozen song books are available, it is usually found that they are all different and even the songs that are in common to several appear in differing versions.\nThe songbook only contained the lyrics, not the music, the assumption being that someone would know the tune.\n\nYHA had from the beginning sold items directly necessary for using hostels, e.g. sheet sleeping bags, but in 1950 started selling goods for walkers, e.g. rucksacks, by mail order from National Office. By 1953, not only was an annual sales catalogue issued but YHA had opened a shop at 21 Bedford Street, London. Three years later, the shop moved across the Strand to John Adam Street. Over the years, this shop expanded into a Travel and Information Office and other shops opened in major cities. In 1990, the store management bought the stores from YHA and formed YHA Adventure Shops PLC. The company was wound up in 2004.\n\nFrom the earliest days, YHA made it clear that motorists were not welcome. Regulation 4 as printed in the handbook read:-\n\nHostels are intended for Members when walking or cycling, and are not open to motorists or motor-cyclists (unless they are using the hostel for the purpose of walking or climbing. In any case motor-cars and motor-cycles must not be garaged at a hostel).\nInstead great emphasis in the handbook was placed on the availability of public transport with distances to nearest railway stations being given and the availability of bus services (something that continues to this day).\n\nIn 1951 this point was promoted to regulation 1:- \n\nYouth Hostels are for the use of members who travel on foot, by bicycle, or canoe; they are not for members touring by motor car, motor cycle, or any power-assisted vehicle.\nBy the mid 1960s, with the decline in rail services YHA allowed members to use cars to reach a hostel, but not to motor tour. It remained policy that cars could not be parked at hostels. From 1970 it was decided to allow parking, for a fee, at certain hostels. However hostel wardens had a discretion to require people arriving by car to move on if the hostel was busy. In 1984 car parking charges were abolished, and parking allowed at all hostels, subject to space.\n\nUntil 2005 it was a requirement to be either a member of YHA or a member of an Hostelling International affiliated association before staying at a hostel. YHA relaxed this rule partly due to a desire to make hostels more accessible to all and partly due to advice received from the Charity Commission that the charitable status of the association was at risk if it remained a membership only organisation.\n\nMembership can be purchased on arrival at a hostel. Non-members have been able to stay since 2005; it was originally stated that this was \"by paying a £3 supplement to the normal overnight price ... – equivalent to a day rate for membership\". This was later amended to the form of a standard price for everyone, with a £3 per night discount for members on booking directly.\n\nUntil the 1980s consumption of alcohol was not allowed; drinking at the hostel could lead to offenders being banned from the hostel. The ban was initially lifted only for alcohol purchased at hostels with a table licence such as Edale, but later it was permitted to bring and drink beer, cider and wine (not spirits), but only accompanying a meal.\n\nWith the reform of UK licensing laws the responsibility for the behaviour of customers falls onto the personal licence holder i.e. the hostel manager. Citing the risk of prosecution of its staff, YHA introduced a policy whereby only alcohol purchased at the hostel was permitted to be consumed on the premises. For hostels not licensed for the sale of alcohol, the previous policy on bring-your-own continues.\n\nThe majority of youth hostels have been licensed to sell alcohol since 2010 and some have a bar.\n\nPre war, groups of children aged 11–18 were welcome at hostels as long as they were under the supervision of a responsible leader. All bookings had to be made in advance. Apart from price no other concession was made to these groups. They were still expected to move on from hostel to hostel and for this reason this type of business became known as School Journey Parties (SJP).\n\nAfter the war YHA realised the potential of providing not just accommodation to school parties and youth groups but educational facilities as well. This scheme Youth Hostels for Health and Education, started in 1953 and was the forerunner of the services offered today. In 2008, 27% of overnight stays with YHA were as part of organised school trips.\n\nYHA provides financial support via its bursary scheme, Breaks for Kids, for groups of young people to take part in educational or recreational visits. In 2013 YHA awarded grants totalling £238,000, providing 5,754 funded trips for young people.\n\n\n\n"}
