{"id": "42045931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42045931", "title": "Ali I (Bavandid ruler)", "text": "Ali I (Bavandid ruler)\n\nAli I (Persian: علی), was the ruler of the Bavand dynasty from 1118 to 1142. He was the uncle and successor of Rustam III.\n\nAli I was the son of Shahriyar IV, and had four brothers, named Qarin III, Yazdagird, Rustam and Bahram.\n\nIn 1106, the Seljuq Sultan Muhammad I conquered the Ismaili fortress of Shahdiz, and ordered Shahriyar IV to participate in the Seljuq campaign against Ismailis. Shahriyar, greatly angered and feeling offended by the message Muhammad sent him, refused to aid him against the Ismailis. Shortly after the sultan sent an army headed by Amir Chavli who tried to capture Sari but was unexpectedly defeated by an army under Shahriyar and his son Qarin III. Muhammad then sent a letter, which requested Shahriyar to send one of his sons to the Seljuq court in Isfahan. He sent his son Ali I, who impressed Muhammad so much that he offered him his daughter in marriage, but Ali refused and told him to grant the honor to his brother and heir of the Bavand dynasty, Qarin III. Qarin III then went to Isfahan court and married her. After his return to Sari, however, he began claiming the Bavand throne for himself, and started abusing his father Shahriyar and his servants. Shahriyar then moved to Amol and later Rudsar, where he built a Khanqah, and devoted himself to religion. However, when he got sick, Qarin III apologized and restored him as the ruler of the Bavand dynasty.\n\nQarin III's refusal to submit to the Seljuq atabeg of Ray, made the atabeg offer Ali an opportunity to conquer Mazandaran, with he agreed to. Shahriyar quickly sided with Qarin III and convinced Ali to withdraw. Nevertheless the strife continued among the two brothers. Ali later went to Marw and joined the Seljuq prince Ahmad Sanjar, the ruler of Khorasan. Ahmad Sanjar was preparing for an expedition to the west in order to take control of Gorgan, but an attack made by Muhammad Khan on the Seljuq borders, forced Ahmad Sanjar to move east in order to repel Muhammad Khan. This allowed Qarin III to capture Gorgan while Shahriyar stayed in Tamisha.\n\nShahriyar later fell ill and died in 1117 and was succeeded by Qarin III. Qarin later fell ill, and died in 1117 after he asked the local people to pledge allegiance to his son Rustam III, whom succeeded him as the ruler of the Bavand kingdom.\n\nRustam III, shortly after his accession of the Bavandid throne, was challenged by Ali I, who still claimed the Bavandid throne. The Seljuq Sultan Muhammad I, then requested the two Bavandid rivals to appear in the Seljuq court of Isfahan. Rustam, however, refused, but later changed his mind and went to Isfahan, where he shortly fell ill and died. According to some sources, Rustam was poisoned by his stepmother, the sister of Muhammad I, who wanted to marry Ali I. Ali I then ascended the Bavandid throne.\n\nHowever, Muhammad I wanted himself to dominate Mazandaran, and had Ali and his brother Yazdagird imprisoned. Meanwhile, in Mazandaran, Ali's brother Bahram and his nephew, Faramurz were struggling for the Bavandid throne. Muhammad shortly died, and was succeeded by his son Mahmud II who released Ali from prison, gave him his aunt in marriage, and recognized him as the ruler of the Bavand dynasty. Faramurz agreed to recognize the authority of Ali, but Bahram resisted, until he was defeated. Bahram then fled to the court of Mahmud II, and requested his help. Mahmud supported Bahram for sometime, but later stopped doing so. Bahram then tried unsuccessfully to make the Ismailis murder Ali.\n\nIn 1119, Ahmad Sanjar, with the aid of the Kakuyid ruler Garshasp II and several other minor rulers, invaded Jibal and forced Mahmud II to cede him Mazandaran and other parts of western Iran. Bahram then joined Ahmad Sanjar. Ahmad Sanjar then ordered Ali to meet him at his court. Ali, however, disobeyed, and instead sent his son Shah Ghazi Rustam IV, who was also related to Ahmad Sanjar from his mother's side.\n\nAhmad Sanjar was angered by Ali's action, and later sent Shah Ghazi Rustam back to Mazandaran. Ahmad Sanjar then recognized Bahram as the ruler of Mazandaran, and gave him an army to conquer the region. Ali immediately lost the support of many of his supporters, but those who remained loyal to him helped him to repelled Bahram. Bahram then withdrew to Nishapur, where he stayed with the amir Öner, until the latter was murdered by the Ismailis in 1121. Bahram then fled to Ghiyath ad-Din Mas'ud, who had recently become the ruler of Gorgan and promised to aid him in his conquest of Mazandaran. However, Ali managed to have Bahram assassinated in 1122.\n\nIn 1127, Ahmad Sanjar once again invaded western Iran, and Ali this time obeyed Ahmad Sanjar's summons, but did not meet with Ahmad Sanjar when he was informed of serious opposition from the latter's nephews. Ahmad Sanjar shortly returned, and once again ordered Ali to meet him, but the latter once again refused and used his advanced age as an excuse. Ali then instead sent one of his sons to Ahmad Sanjar. Ahmad Sanjar, once again enraged by Ali's refusal to obey, sent an army under amir Arghash to capture Shahriyarkuh, but Ali managed to defeat the army before it managed to reach the city.\nAhmad Sanjar then inspired amir Chavli to invade Mazandaran. During the same time he offered his nephew Ghiyath ad-Din Mas'ud the opportunity to annex Shahriyarkuh. Ghiyath, however, was twice defeated by near Tamisha. Arghash was shortly ordered to return to Mazandaran to avenge the embarrassing Seljuq defeats, and besieged the Bavandid fortress of Ruhin for eight months but was forced to withdraw. Mahmud II later died in 1131, and a civil war later ensured between various Seljuq princes. Ahmad Sanjar was then forced to summon Arghash to aid him in an expedition in western Iran. He then pardoned Ali and ordered him to join him in western Iran. Ali, however, sent his son Shah Ghazi Rustam IV instead, who distinguished himself during the expedition and was wounded at the Battle of Dinavar where Ahmad Sanjar was victorious. Ahmad Sanjar then granted Shah Ghazi Rustam IV several honors and allowed him to return to his father in Mazandaran. However, Ahmad Sanjar's relations with Ali still remained tense. After the death of Ali's wife, Ahmad Sanjar, who was her brother, demanded the properties she had left in Mazandaran which was in reality given to Ali. Ahmad Sanjar then sent the \"ispahsalar\" Muhammad Kashi to take it. Ali, however, managed to persuade Ahmad Sanjar to share the properties with him.\n\nDuring the later years, several deposed rulers and princes took refuge in Mazandaran. Some of these included the Seljuq prince Toghrul II, who later managed to conquer Jibal with the aid of Ali. Several other deposed rulers and princes took refuge in Mazandaran, including the Ghaznavid Shirzad ibn Mas'ud III, two sons of the Khwarazmian Qutb al-Din Muhammad, and a member of the Mazyadids.\n\nSome time later, Ahmad Sanjar ordered Abbas, the amir of Ray, to invade Mazandaran. Abbas managed to enter Amol, but after a short time he made peace with Ali. In 1141/1142, the Khwarazmian ruler Atsiz invaded Khorasan and seized Gorgan from Ali. He then imprisoned the local Bavandid governor Rustam Kabudjama. Shah Ghazi Rustam IV, without the agreement of his father, then met Atsiz, and persuaded him to release Rustam Kabudjama. Ali, after hearing about his son's meeting with Atsiz, criticized his actions. Some time later, Ali, who was too old to rule, abdicated in favor of his son Shah Ghazi Rustam IV. Ali died three years later in Tamisha and was buried in Sari.\n\n"}
{"id": "54974864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54974864", "title": "Antiquitates rerum humanarum et divinarum", "text": "Antiquitates rerum humanarum et divinarum\n\nAntiquitates rerum humanarum et divinarum was one of the chief works of Marcus Terentius Varro (1st century BC).\nThe work has been lost, but having been substantially quoted by Augustine in his \"De Civitate Dei\" (published AD 426) its contents can be reconstructed in parts. To a lesser extent, quotes from the work have also been transmitted by other authors, including (among others) Pliny (1st c.), Gellius (2nd c.), Censorinus (3rd c.), Servius (4th/5th c.), Nonius (4th/5th c.), Macrobius (5th c.), Priscian (5th/6th c.). \n\nThe work was divided into 41 books (\"libri\"), of which the first 25 were dealing with Res humanae (\"human affairs\") and the remaining 16 with Res divinae (\"divine affairs\").\nIt was above all an account of the cultural and institutional history of Rome and the Roman religion. It was written in the 50s or 40s BC.\n\nIn \"Res divinae\", Varro introduced the division of divinity into three parts, into mythical theology, natural theology and civil theology.\nThe concept of \"natural theology\" in particular has become influential via the transmission by Augustine. \nThe topical division of \"Res divinae\" into 16 books has been preserved. Books 1–4 were dedicated to priesthood (\"de hominibus\"), 5–7 to cult sites (\"de locis\"), 8–10 to the religious calendar of festivals (\"de temporibus\"), 11–13 to ritual (\"de sacris\"), and 14–16 to the gods (\"de dis\"), especially discussing the etymology of their names.\n\nThe work is based on Stoic sources. Varro refutes the poetic or \"mythical theology\" as popular superstition, complaining that the pure veneration of the divine had been spoiled by the influence of the poets, but he considers valuable the philosophical debate on the nature of the gods. Varro presents the Roman king Numa Pompilius as a paragon of ancient piety. Numa was associated with Pythagoreanism, even though Varro granted that Numa could not have been a Pythagorean since he lived before Pythagoras himself. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "53197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53197", "title": "Aztec mythology", "text": "Aztec mythology\n\nAztec mythology is the body or collection of myths of Aztec civilization of Central Mexico. The Aztecs were Nahuatl-speaking groups living in central Mexico and much of their mythology is similar to that of other Mesoamerican cultures. According to legend, the various groups who were to become the Aztecs arrived from the north into the Anahuac valley around Lake Texcoco. The location of this valley and lake of destination is clear – it is the heart of modern Mexico City – but little can be known with certainty about the origin of the Aztec. There are different accounts of their origin. In the myth the ancestors of the Mexica/Aztec came from a place in the north called Aztlan, the last of seven \"nahuatlacas\" (Nahuatl-speaking tribes, from \"tlaca\", \"man\") to make the journey southward, hence their name \"Azteca.\" Other accounts cite their origin in Chicomoztoc, \"the place of the seven caves,\" or at Tamoanchan (the legendary origin of all civilizations).\n\nThe Mexica/Aztec were said to be guided by their god Huitzilopochtli, meaning \"Left-handed Hummingbird\" or \"Hummingbird from the South.\" At an island in Lake Texcoco, they saw an eagle holding a rattlesnake in its talons, perched on a nopal cactus. This vision fulfilled a prophecy telling them that they should found their new home on that spot. The Aztecs built their city of Tenochtitlan on that site, building a great artificial island, which today is in the center of Mexico City. This legendary vision is pictured on the Coat of Arms of Mexico.\n\nAccording to legend, when the Mexicans arrived in the Anahuac valley around Lake Texcoco, they were considered by the other groups as the least civilized of all, but the Mexica/Aztec decided to learn, and they took all they could from other people, especially from the ancient Toltec (whom they seem to have partially confused with the more ancient civilization of Teotihuacan). To the Aztec, the Toltec were the originators of all culture; \"Toltecayotl\" was a synonym for culture. Aztec legends identify the Toltecs and the cult of Quetzalcoatl with the legendary city of Tollan, which they also identified with the more ancient Teotihuacan. \n\nBecause the Aztec adopted and combined several traditions with their own earlier traditions, they had several creation myths. One of these, the Five Suns describes four great ages preceding the present world, each of which ended in a catastrophe, and \"were named in function of the force or divine element that violently put an end to each one of them\". Coatlicue was the mother of Centzon Huitznahua (\"Four Hundred Southerners\"), her sons, and Coyolxauhqui, her daughter. She found a ball filled with feathers and placed it in her waistband, becoming pregnant with Huitzilopochtli. Her other children became suspicious as to the identity of the father and vowed to kill their mother. She gave birth on Mount Coatepec, pursued by her children, but the newborn Huitzilopochtli defeated most of his brothers, who became the stars. He also killed his half-sister Coyolxauhqui by tearing out her heart using a Xiuhcoatl (a blue snake) and throwing her body down the mountain. This was said to inspire the Aztecs to rip the hearts out of their victims and throw their bodies down the sides of the temple dedicated to Huitzilopochtli, who represents the sun chasing away the stars at dawn.\n\nOur age (\"Nahui-Ollin\"), the fifth age, or fifth creation, began in the ancient city of Teotihuacan. According to the myth, all the gods had gathered to sacrifice themselves and create a new age. Although the world and the sun had already been created, it would only be through their sacrifice that the sun would be set into motion and time as well as history could begin. The most handsome and strongest of the gods, Tecuciztecatl, was supposed to sacrifice himself but when it came time to self-immolate, he could not jump into the fire. Instead, Nanahuatl the smallest and humblest of the gods, who was also covered in boils, sacrificed himself first and jumped into the flames. The sun was set into motion with his sacrifice and time began. Humiliated by Nanahuatl's sacrifice, Tecuciztecatl too leaped into the fire and became the moon.\n\n\n\n, Daniel Brinton (Ed); late 19th-century compendium of some Aztec mythological texts and poems appearing in one manuscript version of Sahagun's 16th-century codices.\n"}
{"id": "20190759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20190759", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Malawi", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Malawi\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Malawi began before the country achieved independence. Before World War I the area of modern Malawi was part of Nyasaland and `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, asked the followers of the Bahá'í Faith to travel to the regions of Africa. As part of a wide scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa the religion was introduced into this region when an early African Bahá'í traveled from Tanganyika in 1952 followed in 1953 by Bahá'ís from Iran the same year it became known as the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. A decade later there were five Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies. By 1970, now in the country of Malawi, there were 12 Local Spiritual Assemblies and a National Spiritual Assembly. In 2003 Bahá'ís estimated their membership at 15000 while the 2001 World Christian Encyclopedia estimated the membership at 24500 and in 2005 revised their estimate to about 36000.\n\nIn the first decade of the 1900s, the region of Malawi was part of Nyasaland. In a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States and Canada in 1916-1917 by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, asked the followers of the religion to travel to regions of Africa; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The publication was delayed until 1919 in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919. after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu.\n\nWide scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa was observed to begin in 1950s and extend in the 1960s. Particular plans to bring the religion to Uganda began in 1950 involving the cooperation of American, British, Egyptian, and Persian Bahá'í communities and reached a level of coordination and detail that materials were translated into languages widely used in Africa before pioneers reached Africa. In 1952 in the region of Malawi, then about to become the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, the Bahá'í Faith enters when Dennis Dudley-Smith Kutendele (sometimes Kutendere), the first African Bahá'í in Tanganyika, and member of Dar es Salaam's first local spiritual assembly, moved to Zomba with his family - the first time an African Bahá'í took the religion to a new country. He was soon joined by pioneer Enayat Sohaili and his family from Iran. As Sohaili was white and Kutendere black it was illegal for them to socialize. So the first Bahá'í Feast they held was meeting in the bush at night. This same year new convert Dunduzu Chisiza left Malawi to help introduce the religion to Rwanda (formerly part of Ruanda-Urundi). In 1956 the area of Malawi was included in the regional National Spiritual Assembly of South and West Africa. John William Allen was the first Auxiliary Board of the region working under Hand of the Cause Músá Baníní.\n\nBy 1963 there were Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies in Balaka, Balila, Bawi, Limbe, and Mianje. There were smaller groups of Bahá'ís in Chileka, Chipoka, Chiradzulo, Lilongwe, Mzimba, Mzuzu, Sharpevale, and Zomba. There were individual Bahá'ís in Chibwawa, Dedza, Fort Johnston (now known as Mangochi), and Karonga.\nIn 1964 the first Bahá'í marriage service was performed in the country; the same year as the independence of the country now called Malawi. An interim re-organization pooled a regional national assembly of South Central Africa, which comprised the countries of Botswana, Malawi and Rhodesia in 1967. By 1970 there were 12 Local Spiritual Assemblies, enough for the country to have its own National Spiritual Assembly, which was elected in the presence of Hand of the Cause Paul Haney. The next year Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga asked for official registration of the religion, a request met by President Hastings Banda. Three from Malawi attended the first Bahá'í youth summer school for southern Africa was held in Swaziland in December, 1971 through the 2nd of January, 1972. Land for a national center was acquired in 1972 and the number local assemblies had reached 23. In 1972 and 1982 Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum traveled throughout the country. Her October 1972 visit included radio and print press interviews, public talks and a meeting with President Hastings Banda where she observed \"in the eyes of Baha'u'llah it seems there was one thing even worse than war and this was anarchy and revolution and civil strife\" when the president commented that some religious groups in Malawi had been fermenting discord and strife. She also toured into the countryside and met many Bahá'ís and contributed to building funds for centers. Among her public talks she said that though African suffered tribal prejudice, racial prejudice was far worse but of which Africans were largely clear of. Among the pioneers to come to Malawi was Ireland's Frances Beard who moved there in 1974, the same year as Bahá'ís from Australia also pioneered to Malawi. Since its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. Malawian Bahá'ís have embarked on a number of projects to support the welfare of Malawi.\n\nIn a commitment to education and the welfare of humanity, the Bahá'ís have set up 60 grassroots Bahá'í literacy schools and 30 Bahá'í primary health care workers were trained and deployed. The largest scale institution is the private school named the Bambino School in Lilongwe. A Bahá'í school started in January 1993, in 2003 Bambino School had an enrollment of 1,100 from nursery level through secondary school and secretarial college and has high school graduation including taking the International General Certificate of Secondary Education. Andrew Nhlane is the head teacher of the high school which has 350 students alone. Students participate in international projects with other schools in Turkey, United Arab Emirates and Bulgaria. International students contribute terms of service. Kenneth Gondwe, aka Babyjinx, is a former attendee of Bambino and has gone on to be an accomplished musician, performer, and business owner running a music production company. Partial scholarships are available.\n\nThe 2003 golden jubilee of the establishment of the religion in Malawi was attended by Bahá'ís from Bermuda, Australia, Mauritius, South Africa, Zambia, and Lesotho, and one of the events of the jubilee was a play based on the life and martyrdom of Mona Mahmudnizhad. The 2004 Namibian Jubilee had guests from the Malawian Bahá'í community. The Bahá'í National Center is located in Lilongwe.\n\nIn 2007 public schools began offering religious education at the primary school level. These courses had previously been available only in secondary schools. Both a Christian-oriented \"Bible Knowledge\" course and a \"Moral and Religious Education\" course, including Muslim, Hindu, Bahá'í, and Christian material are available. Individual parent-teacher associations or school committees decide which religion courses to offer.\n\nBahá'í delegates from 17 countries included ones from Malawi convened in New York from February – March 2008 for the 52nd session of the UN Commission on the Status of Women. Some 120 Bahá'ís from Malawi attended the first of 41 conferences called for by the Universal House of Justice between November and February 2008-9 in neighboring Zambia along with Bahá'ís from Zimbabwe.\n\nThe World Christian Encyclopedia notes there may have been 18000 Bahá'ís in 1990 and 24,500 in 2000 and about 36145 in 2005. In 2003 a Bahá'í source mentioned there were some 15000 Bahá'ís in Malawi. A 2007 survey reports about 4% of the population of 13000000—roughly 520000—is split between Hindus, Bahá'ís, Rastafarians and Jews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48660318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48660318", "title": "Bakraur", "text": "Bakraur\n\nBakraur, sometimes called Bakrour, is a village located slightly east of Bodh Gaya in the state of Bihar, India. It lies directly across the Phalgu River from the town of Bodh Gaya, where Gautama Buddha is said to have attained enlightenment.\n\nThe village of Bakraur is believed to be the home of Sujata, who is said to have fed Gautama Buddha milk and rice shortly before he attained illumination. A stupa dedicated to Sujata has been erected in Bakraur (photo).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30067180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30067180", "title": "Barai (caste)", "text": "Barai (caste)\n\nThe Barai are a Hindu caste found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They are also known as Chaurasia, and are a sub-group within the larger Tamboli community of South Asia.\n\nThe Barai derive their name from the Sanskrit word \"vritti\" which means a maintainer. According to other traditions, they get their name from the word \"bari\", which means a hedge or enclosure. Both these names alludes to the fact that they are a community of horticulturists. They are a community that grows and sells the betel leaf. The Barai are found mainly in eastern and central Uttar Pradesh, their place in the west is taken by the Tamboli, who are also traditionally involved in the cultivation of betel leaves. The Barai are very likely to be a sub-division of the Tamboli community. They are further divided into a number of clans, the main ones being the Chaurasia, Katiyar, Jaiswar and Nag.\n\nMost families possess small holdings, with a smaller number renting land from other communities. A significant number are also involved in selling paan, especially in Awadh. In western Uttar Pradesh, they sell their produce to the Tamboli community. They tend to live in their own settlements, which are often located near the outskirts of towns.\n\nThe Barai are strictly endogamous, and practice clan exogamy. Like other Hindu castes, they have set up a caste association, the Chaurasia Samiti. This acts both as an instrument of social control, as well the controlling the sale of betel nuts in eastern Uttar Pradesh. The Barai are Hindu, and their tribal deity is Nāg, the snake god.\n"}
{"id": "2399886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2399886", "title": "Bible and Spade", "text": "Bible and Spade\n\nBible and Spade is a quarterly magazine published by the inerrantist Associates for Biblical Research, explicitly committed to the use of archaeology to demonstrate the historical veracity of the Old and New Testaments. The magazine concentrates largely on matters relating to archaeology and Bible history, but also touches on general apologetics (especially the relationship between science and evangelical religious belief) and Christian devotion. The editor-in-chief is Bryant G. Wood.\n"}
{"id": "2423098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2423098", "title": "Burz", "text": "Burz\n\nBurz is the middle Persian name for the Indo-Iranian divinity of waters. Burz is also known as Ahura Berezant in the texts of the Avesta, and also as Apam Napat in Avestan and Vedic Sanskrit. Burz is a \"Yazad\" (Avestan: \"Yazata\") in Zoroastrianism and later Persian mythology.\n\nMary Boyce suggests that the proto-Iranian Apam Napat incorporated many of the features of a proto-Indo-Iranian equivalent of \"*vouruna\", who in turn may be the \"Vouru-kaša\" (luminous ocean) of Persian mythology. \n\nIn Persian mythology, Apam Napat has also some military aspects and is said to keep rebellion in check.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "876918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=876918", "title": "Charles H. Kraft", "text": "Charles H. Kraft\n\nThe Rev. Dr. Charles H. Kraft (b. 1932 in Connecticut) is an American anthropologist, linguist, evangelical Christian speaker, and Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and Intercultural Communication in the School of Intercultural Studies at Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, California, where he taught primarily in the school's spiritual-dynamics concentration. In the domain of religion, his work since the early 1980s has focused on inner healing and spiritual warfare. He joined Fuller's faculty in 1969. In the 1950s he served as a Brethren missionary in northern Nigeria. He has served as a professor of African languages at Michigan State University and UCLA, and taught anthropology part-time at Biola University. He holds a BA from Wheaton College, a BD from Ashland Theological Seminary, and a PhD from the Hartford Seminary Foundation, titled \"A Study Of Hausa Syntax\".\n\nIn 1982, with fellow Fuller missions professor Peter Wagner, Kraft became an early proponent of the teaching and ministry models of John Wimber, and helped popularize the \"Third Wave of the Holy Spirit\", which Wimber's Vineyard Movement represented.\n\nKraft writes and teaches about biblical Christianity and culture (including contextualization), communicating biblical Christianity, anthropology and Christianity, cross-cultural Christian theology, worldview, spiritual warfare, inner healing, generational curses, and the evils of Freemasonry. He believes that Freemasonry \"is one of the most evil organizations in the world.\" In addition to his work at Fuller, Kraft is the president and founder of Deep Healing Ministries, a deliverance ministry, and conducts seminars and exorcisms around the world. He lives in California with his wife. He serves as the Vice-President of Hearts Set Free Ministries, where he conducts seminars on spiritual warfare, healing, and deliverance.\n\nHe has taught and ministered in Nigeria, Korea, Thailand, Papua New Guinea, Australia, India, Denmark, Norway, England, Holland, New Zealand, South Africa, Canada, Japan, Switzerland, and Germany.\n\nKraft's published books include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "390810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=390810", "title": "Dongba", "text": "Dongba\n\nThe term dongba (Nakhi: \"²dto¹mba\", ) refers to priests of the Nakhi people of Southwest China, who are masters of traditional culture, literature and Dongba symbols.\n\nThe \"dongba\" are Bon priests. They play a major role in Nakhi culture and preach harmony between man and nature. Their costumes show strong Tibetan influence, and pictures of Bön gods can be seen on their headgear. Tibetan prayer flags and Taoist offerings can be seen in their rituals.\n\nReligious rituals are also conducted by the priests to propitiate the spirits, as they were believed to be living in every part of the natural world. The core of the Dongba religion is based on the belief that both man and nature are two half-brothers born of two mothers and the same father. This creates revenge from heaven, which falls upon humans who use up too much natural resources.\n\nPrior to Tibetan influence, it is suggested that the original Nakhi priests were female \"llü-bu\". At that time, statues or religious images could be widely seen everywhere.\n\nA complete annotated translation of ancient Nakhi Dongba Books (), in 100 volumes, has been published.\n\nXu Duoduo. (2015). \"A Comparison of the Twenty-Eight Lunar Mansions Between Dabaism and Dongbaism\". Archaeoastronomy and Ancient Technologies, 3 (2015) 2: 61-81 (links: 1. academia.edu; 2. Archaeoastronomy and Ancient Technologies).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24419264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24419264", "title": "Enumclaw and Kapoonis", "text": "Enumclaw and Kapoonis\n\nEnumclaw and Kapoonis ( ) are mythological twin brothers of ostensible Pacific Northwest Native American origin who wanted to be great medicine men and sought the guardian spirit Sky Father's assistance. Enumclaw became so highly skilled at rock throwing and Kapoonis so highly skilled with fire that they frightened Sky Father with their aim and ferocity, and so Sky Father changed Enumclaw into the thunder spirit and changed Kapoonis into the lightning spirit.\n\n"}
{"id": "935895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=935895", "title": "First Anglo-Sikh War", "text": "First Anglo-Sikh War\n\nThe First Anglo-Sikh War was fought between the Sikh Empire and the East India Company between 1845 and 1846. It resulted in partial subjugation of the Sikh kingdom.\n\nThe Sikh kingdom of Punjab was expanded and consolidated by Maharajah Ranjit Singh during the early years of the nineteenth century, about the same time as the British-controlled territories were advanced by conquest or annexation to the borders of the Punjab. Ranjit Singh maintained a policy of wary friendship with the British, ceding some territory south of the Sutlej River, while at the same time building up his military forces both to deter aggression by the British and to wage war against the Afghans. He hired American and European mercenary soldiers to train his artillery, and also incorporated contingents of Hindus and Muslims into his army.\n\nAided by disunity among the Afghans, the Sikhs conquered the cities and provinces of Peshawar and Multan from them, and also incorporated the states of Jammu and Kashmir into their empire. Once order was restored in Afghanistan, the British became obsessed with the idea that Emir Dost Mohammed Khan of Afghanistan was conspiring with Imperial Russia and launched the First Anglo-Afghan War to replace him with the compliant Shuja Shah Durrani. This move had Sikh support, in return for the formal cessation of Peshawar to the Sikhs by Shuja Shah. Initially successful, the British invasion took a disastrous turn with the Massacre of Elphinstone's Army, which lowered the prestige of the British, and the Bengal Army of the British East India Company in particular. The British finally withdrew from Afghanistan, and from Peshawar which they held as an advance base, in 1842.\n\nRanjit Singh died in 1839. Almost immediately, his kingdom began to fall into disorder. Ranjit's unpopular legitimate son, Kharak Singh, was removed from power within a few months, and later died in prison under mysterious circumstances. It was widely believed that he was poisoned. He was replaced by his able but estranged son Kanwar Nau Nihal Singh, who also died within a few months in suspicious circumstances, after being injured by a falling archway at the Lahore Fort while returning from his father's cremation.\n\nAt the time, two major factions within the Punjab were contending for power and influence: the Sikh Sindhanwalias and the Hindu Dogras. The Dogras succeeded in raising Sher Singh, the eldest illegitimate son of Ranjit Singh, to the throne in January 1841. The most prominent Sindhanwalias took refuge on British territory, but had many adherents among the Army of the Punjab.\n\nThe army was expanding rapidly in the aftermath of Ranjit Singh's death, from 29,000 (with 192 guns) in 1839 to over 80,000 in 1845 as landlords and their retainers took up arms. It proclaimed itself to be the embodiment of the Sikh nation. Its regimental panchayats (committees) formed an alternative power source within the kingdom, declaring that Guru Gobind Singh's ideal of the Sikh commonwealth had been revived, with the Sikhs as a whole assuming all executive, military and civil authority in the State, which British observers decried as a \"dangerous military democracy\". British representatives and visitors in the Punjab described the regiments as preserving \"puritanical\" order internally, but also as being in a perpetual state of mutiny or rebellion against the central Durbar (court).\nMaharajah Sher Singh was unable to meet the pay demands of the army, although he reportedly lavished funds on a degenerate court. In September 1843 he was murdered by his cousin, an officer of the army, Ajit Singh Sindhanwalia. The Dogras took their revenge on those responsible, and Jind Kaur, Ranjit Singh's youngest widow, became regent for her infant son Duleep Singh. After the vizier Hira Singh was killed, while attempting to flee the capital with loot from the royal treasury (toshkana), by troops under Sham Singh Attariwala, Jind Kaur's brother Jawahar Singh became vizier in December 1844. In 1845 he arranged the assassination of Peshaura Singh, who presented a threat to Duleep Singh. For this, he was called to account by the army. Despite attempts to bribe the army he was butchered in September 1845 in the presence of Jind Kaur and Duleep Singh.\n\nJind Kaur publicly vowed revenge against her brother's murderers. She remained regent. Lal Singh became vizier, and Tej Singh became commander of the army. Sikh historians have stressed that both these men were prominent in the Dogra faction. Originally high caste Hindus from outside the Punjab, both had converted to Sikhism in 1818.\n\nImmediately after the death of Ranjit Singh, the British East India Company had begun increasing its military strength, particularly in the regions adjacent to the Punjab, establishing a military cantonment at Ferozepur, only a few miles from the Sutlej River which marked the frontier between British-ruled India and the Punjab. In 1843, they conquered and annexed Sindh, to the south of the Punjab, in a move which many British people regarded as cynical and ignoble. This did not gain the British any respect in the Punjab, and increased suspicions of British motives.\n\nThe actions and attitudes of the British, under Governor General Lord Ellenborough and his successor, Sir Henry Hardinge, are disputed. By most British accounts, their main concern was that the Sikh army, without strong leadership to restrain them, was a serious threat to British territories along the border. Sikh and Indian historians have countered that the military preparations made by these Governors-General were offensive in nature; for example, they prepared bridging trains and siege gun batteries, which would be unlikely to be required in a purely defensive operation.\n\nThe British attitudes were affected by reports from their new political agent in the frontier districts, Major George Broadfoot, who stressed the disorder in the Punjab and recounted every tale of corrupt behaviour at the court. For some British officials, there was a strong desire to expand British influence and control into the Punjab, as it was the only remaining formidable force that could threaten the British hold in India and the last remaining independent kingdom not under British influence. The kingdom was also renowned for being the wealthiest, the Koh-i-Noor being but one of its many treasures. Despite this, it is unlikely that the British East India Company would have deliberately attempted to annex the Punjab had the war not occurred, as they simply did not have the manpower or resources to keep a hold on the territories (as proven by the outbreak of the Second Anglo-Sikh War).\n\nNevertheless, the unconcealed and seemingly aggressive British military build-up at the borders had the effect of increasing tension within the Punjab and the Sikh Army.\n\nAfter mutual demands and accusations between the Sikh Durbar and the East India Company, diplomatic relations were broken. An East India Company army began marching towards Ferozepur, where a division was already stationed. This army was commanded by Sir Hugh Gough, the Commander in Chief of the Bengal Army, and was accompanied by Sir Henry Hardinge, the British Governor General of Bengal, who placed himself beneath Gough in the military chain of command. The British East India Company forces consisted of formations of the Bengal Army, with usually one British unit to every three or four Bengal infantry or cavalry units. Most of the artillery on the British side consisted of light guns from the elite Bengal Horse Artillery.\nThe Sikh Army at that time was led by General Raja Lal Singh who, with Tej Singh, betrayed the Sikhs during the course of the war. Lal Singh was regularly supplying information and even receiving instructions from British officers.\n\nIn response to the British move, the Sikh army began crossing the Sutlej on 11 December 1845. Although the leaders and principal units of the army were Sikhs, there were also Punjabi, Pakhtun and Kashmiri infantry units. The artillery consisted mainly of units of heavy guns, which had been organised and trained by European mercenaries.\n\nThe Sikhs claimed they were only moving into Sikh possessions (specifically the village of Moran, whose ownership was disputed) on the east side of the river, but the move was regarded by the British as clearly hostile and they declared war. One Sikh army under Tej Singh advanced towards Ferozepur but made no effort to surround or attack the exposed British division there. Another force under Lal Singh clashed with Gough's and Hardinge's advancing forces at the Battle of Mudki on 18 December. The British won an untidy encounter battle.\nOn the next day, the British came in sight of the large Sikh entrenchment at Ferozeshah. Gough wished to attack at once, but Hardinge used his position as Governor General to overrule him and order him to wait for the division from Ferozepur to arrive. When they appeared late on 21 December, Gough attacked in the few hours of daylight left. The well-served Sikh artillery caused heavy casualties among the British, and their infantry fought desperately. On the other hand, the elite of the Sikh army, the irregular cavalry or ghodachadas (alt. gorracharra, horse-mounted), were comparatively ineffective against Gough's infantry and cavalry as they had been kept from the battlefield by Lal Singh.\n\nBy nightfall, some of Gough's army had fought their way into the Sikh positions, but other units had been driven back in disorder. Hardinge expected a defeat on the following day and ordered the state papers at Mudki to be burned in this event. However, on the following morning, the British and Bengal Army units rallied and drove the Sikhs from the rest of their fortifications. Lal Singh had made no effort to rally or reorganise his army. At this point, Tej Singh's army appeared. Once again, Gough's exhausted army faced defeat and disaster, but Tej Singh inexplicably withdrew, claiming that British cavalry and artillery which were withdrawing to replenish ammunition were actually making an outflanking move.\nOperations temporarily halted, mainly because Gough's army was exhausted and required rest and reinforcements. The Sikhs were temporarily dismayed by their defeats and by their commanders' actions, but rallied when fresh units and leaders joined them, and Maharani Jind Kaur exhorted 500 selected officers to make renewed efforts.\nWhen hostilities resumed, a Sikh detachment crossed the Sutlej near Aliwal, threatening Gough's lines of supply and communications. A division under Sir Harry Smith was sent to deal with them. Sikh cavalry attacked Smith continually on his march and captured his baggage, but Smith received reinforcements and at the Battle of Aliwal on 28 January 1846, he won a model victory, eliminating the Sikh bridgehead.\nGough's main army had now been reinforced, and rejoined by Smith's division, they attacked the main Sikh bridgehead at Sobraon on 10 February. Tej Singh is said to have deserted the Sikh army early in the battle. Although the Sikh army resisted as stubbornly as at Ferozeshah, Gough's troops eventually broke into their position. The bridges behind the Sikhs broke under British artillery fire, or were ordered to be destroyed behind him by Tej Singh. The Sikh army was trapped. None of them surrendered, and the British troops showed little mercy. This defeat effectively broke the Sikh army.\n\nIn the Treaty of Lahore on 9 March 1846, the Sikhs were made to surrender the valuable region (the Jullundur Doab) between the Beas River and Sutlej River. The Lahore Durbar was also required to pay an indemnity of 15 million rupees. Because it could not readily raise this sum, it ceded Kashmir, Hazarah and all the forts, territories, rights and interests in the hill countries situated between the Rivers Beas and Indus to the East India Company, as equivalent to ten million of rupees. In a later separate arrangement (the Treaty of Amritsar), the Raja of Jammu, Gulab Singh, purchased Kashmir from the East India Company for a payment of 7.5 million rupees and was granted the title Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir.\nMaharaja Duleep Singh remained ruler of the Punjab and at first his mother, Maharani Jindan Kaur, remained as Regent. However, the Durbar later requested that the British presence remain until the Maharaja attained the age of 16. The British consented to this and on 16 December 1846, the Treaty of Bhyroval provided for the Maharani to be awarded a pension of 150,000 rupees and be replaced by a British resident in Lahore supported by a Council of Regency, with agents in other cities and regions. This effectively gave the East India Company control of the government.\n\nSikh historians have always maintained that, in order to retain their hold on power and maintain the figurehead rule of Duleep Singh, Lal Singh and Tej Singh embarked on the war with the deliberate intent of breaking their own army. In particular, Lal Singh was corresponding with a British political officer and betraying state and military secrets throughout the war. Lal Singh's and Tej Singh's desertion of their armies and refusal to attack when opportunity offered seem inexplicable otherwise.\n\nThe Sikh empire was until then one of the few remaining kingdoms in India after the rise of the company and the fall of the Mughal empire. Although the Sikh Army was weakened by the war, resentment at British interference in the government led to the Second Anglo-Sikh War within three years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "547498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=547498", "title": "George Mosse", "text": "George Mosse\n\nGeorge Lachmann Mosse (September 20, 1918 – January 22, 1999) was an emigre from Nazi Germany first to Great Britain and then to the United States who taught history as a professor at the University of Iowa, the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and the Hebrew University. Best known for his studies of Nazism, he authored more than 25 books on topics as diverse as constitutional history, Protestant theology, and the history of masculinity. In 1966, he and Walter Laqueur founded \"The Journal of Contemporary History\", which they co-edited.\n\nMosse was born in Berlin to a prominent, well-to-do German Jewish family. His maternal grandfather, Rudolf Mosse, founded what became Germany's largest advertising agency, and his media empire included the respected liberal newspaper \"Berliner Tageblatt\". His father, Hans Lachmann-Mosse, commissioned the architect Erich Mendelsohn to redesign the iconic Mossehaus where the \"Tageblatt\" was published. In his autobiography, George Mosse described himself as a mischievous child given to pranks. He was educated at the noted Mommsen-Gymnasium in Berlin and from 1928 onwards at Schule Schloss Salem, a famously spartan boarding school that exposed the scions of rich and powerful families to a life devoid of privilege. The headmaster at Salem, Kurt Hahn, was an advocate of experiential education and required all pupils to engage in physically challenging outdoor activities. Although Mosse disliked the school's nationalistic ethos, he conceded that its emphasis on character building and leadership gave him \"some backbone.\" He preferred individual sports, such as skiing, to team activities.\n\nIn 1933, with Hitler's rise to power, the Mosse family emigrated and separated. His mother, Felicia (1888-1972), and his sister, Hilde (1912-1982), relocated to Switzerland, while his father moved to France, where in 1939 he got a divorce, married Karola Strauch (the mother of Harvard physicist Karl Strauch), and subsequently emigrated to California. George Mosse moved to England, where he enrolled at the Quaker Bootham School in York. It was here, according to his autobiography, that he first became aware of his homosexuality. A struggling student, he failed several exams, but with the financial support of his parents he was admitted to study history at Downing College, Cambridge, in 1937. Here he first developed an interest in historical scholarship, attending lectures by G. M. Trevelyan and Helen Maude Cam. While he was at Cambridge, his hostility to fascism was deepened by the Spanish Civil War (although he later averred that he had only a superficial understanding of the conflict).\n\nIn 1939, his family relocated to the United States, and he continued his undergraduate studies at the Quaker Haverford College, earning a B.A. in 1941. He went on to graduate studies at Harvard University, where he benefited from a scholarship reserved for students born in Berlin-Charlottenburg. His 1946 Ph.D. dissertation on English constitutional history of the 16th and 17th centuries, supervised by Charles Howard McIlwain, was subsequently published as \"The Struggle for Sovereignty in England\" (1950).\n\nMosse's first academic appointment as an historian was at the University of Iowa, where he focused on religion in early modern Europe and published a concise study of the Reformation that became a widely used textbook. In 1955, he moved to the University of Wisconsin–Madison and began to lecture on modern history. His \"The Culture of Western Europe: The Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries, an Introduction\" (1961), which summarizes these lectures, was also widely adopted as a textbook.\n\nMosse taught for more than thirty years at the University of Wisconsin, where he was named a John C. Bascom Professor of European History and a Weinstein-Bascom Professor of Jewish Studies, while concurrently holding the Koebner Professorship of History at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Beginning in 1969, Mosse spent one semester each year teaching at the Hebrew University. He also held appointments as a visiting professor at the University of Tel Aviv and the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. After retiring from the University of Wisconsin, he taught at Cambridge University and Cornell University. He was named the first research historian in residence at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum.\n\nMosse's first published work was a 1947 paper in the \"Economic History Review\" describing the Anti-Corn Law League. He claimed that this was the first time the landed gentry had tried to organize a mass movement in order to counter their opponents. In \"The Holy Pretence\" (1957), he suggested that a thin line divides truth and falsehood in Puritan casuistry. Mosse declared that he approached history not as narrative, but as a series of questions and possible answers. The narrative provides the framework within which the problem of interest can be addressed. A constant theme in his work is the fate of liberalism. Critics pointed out that he had made Lord Chief Justice Sir Edward Coke, the chief character of his book \"The Struggle for Sovereignty in England\" (1950), into a liberal long before liberalism had come into existence. Reviewers noted that the sub-text in his \"The Culture of Western Europe\" (1961) was the triumph of totalitarianism over liberalism.\n\nHis most well-known book, \"The Crisis of German Ideology: Intellectual Origins of the Third Reich\" (1964), analyses the origins of the nationalist belief system. Mosse claimed, however, that it was not until his book \"The Nationalization of the Masses\" (1975), which dealt with the sacralization of politics, that he began to put his own stamp upon the analysis of cultural history. He started to write it in the Jerusalem apartment of the historian Jacob Talmon, surrounded by the works of Rousseau. Mosse sought to draw attention to the role played by myth, symbol, and political liturgy in the French Revolution. Rousseau, he noted, went from believing that \"the people\" could govern themselves in town meetings, to urging that the government of Poland invent public ceremonies and festivals in order to imbue the people with allegiance to the nation. Mosse argued that there was a continuity between his work on the Reformation and his work on more recent history. He claimed that it was not a big step from Christian belief systems to modern civic religions such as nationalism.\n\nIn the \"Crisis of German Ideology\", he traced how the \"German Revolution\" became anti-Jewish, and in \"Towards the Final Solution\" (1979) he wrote a general history of racism in Europe. He argued that although racism was originally directed towards blacks, it was subsequently applied to Jews. In \"Nationalism and Sexuality: Respectable and Abnormal Sexuality in Modern Europe\" (1985), he claimed that there was a link between male eros, the German youth movement, and \"völkisch\" thought. Because of the dominance of the male image in so much nationalism, he decided to write the history of that stereotype in \"The Image of Man: The Creation of Modern Masculinity\" (1996).\n\nMosse saw nationalism, which often includes racism, as the chief menace of modern times. As a Jew, he regarded the rejection of the Age of Enlightenment in Europe as a personal threat, as it was the Enlightenment spirit which had liberated the Jews. He noted that European nationalism had initially tried to combine patriotism, human rights, cosmopolitanism, and tolerance. It was only later that France and then Germany came to believe that they had a monopoly on virtue. In developing this view Mosse was influenced by Peter Viereck, who argued that the turn towards aggressive nationalism first arose in the era of Johann Gottlieb Fichte and Ernst Moritz Arndt. Mosse traced the origins of Nazism in \"völkisch\" ideology back to a 19th-century organicist worldview that fused pseudo-scientific nature philosophy with mystical notions of German soul. The Nazis made \"völkisch\" thinking accessible to the broader public via potent rhetoric, powerful symbols, and mass rituals. Mosse demonstrated that antisemitism drew on stereotypes that depicted the Jew as the enemy of the German \"Volk\"; an embodiment of the urban, materialistic, scientific culture that was supposedly responsible for the corruption of the German spirit.\n\nIn \"Toward the Final Solution\", he claimed that racial stereotypes were rooted in the European tendency to classify human beings according to their closeness or distance from Greek ideals of beauty. \"Nationalism and Sexuality: Middle-Class Morality and Sexual Norms in Modern Europe\" extended these insight to encompass other excluded or persecuted groups: Jews, homosexuals, Romani people, and the mentally ill. Many 19th-century thinkers relied upon binary stereotypes that categorized human beings either as \"healthy\" or \"degenerate\", \"normal\" or \"abnormal\", \"insiders\" or \"outsiders\". In \"The Image of Man: The Creation of Modern Masculinity\", Mosse argued that middle-class male respectability evoked \"counter-type\" images of men whose weakness, nervousness, and effeminacy threatened to undermine an ideal of manhood.\n\nMosse's upbringing attuned him to both the advantages and the dangers of a humanistic education. His book \"German Jews Beyond Judaism\" (1985) describes how the German-Jewish dedication to \"Bildung\", or cultivation, helped Jews to transcend their group identity. But it also argues that during the Weimar Republic, \"Bildung\" contributed to a blindness toward the illiberal political realities that later engulfed Jewish families. Mosse's liberalism also informed his supportive but critical stance toward Zionism and the State of Israel. In an essay written on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Zionism, he wrote that the early Zionists envisioned a liberal commonwealth based on individualism and solidarity, but a \"more aggressive, exclusionary and normative nationalism eventually came to the fore.\"\n\nHistorian James Franklin argues that:\n\nAt the University of Wisconsin, George Mosse was recognized as a charismatic and inspiring teacher. Tom Bates' \"Rads: A True Story of the End of the Sixties\" (1992) describes how students flocked to Mosse's courses to \"savor the crossfire\" with his friend and rival, the Marxist historian Harvey Goldberg. Mosse charmed his students by mingling critical skepticism with humor, irony, and empathy; but they also admired the way he applied his historical knowledge to contemporary issues, attempting to be fair to opposing views while remaining true to his own principles.\n\nMosse left a substantial bequest to the University of Wisconsin–Madison to establish the George L. Mosse Program in History, a collaborative program with the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. He also left modest endowments to support LGBT studies at both the University of Wisconsin–Madison and the University of Amsterdam, where he taught as a visiting professor. These endowments were funded by the restitution of the Mosse family's properties expropriated by the Nazi regime that were not restored until 1989-90, following the collapse of East Germany.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39548630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39548630", "title": "Guy Erwin", "text": "Guy Erwin\n\nR. Guy Erwin (born 1958) is an American Lutheran bishop. He was elected in 2013 to a six-year term as bishop of the Southwest California Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA).\n\nErwin is the first Native American bishop elected to office in the ELCA, and is a member of the Osage Nation. He is also the first openly gay bishop in the ELCA, and has lived in a committed same-sex relationship for 20 years. He and Rob Flynn were married in August 2013.\n\nErwin received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Harvard College in 1980. He holds the Master of Arts, Master of Philosophy, and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from Yale University. From 1993 to 1999 he was lecturer in Church history in the Yale Divinity School (YDS), where he taught History of Western Christianity as well as courses on Martin Luther, the Pietists and other specialities. During the 2006–2007 academic year he was visiting professor at YDS while on sabbatical from California Lutheran University where he has taught since 2000.\n"}
{"id": "35304409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35304409", "title": "Hindu pilgrimage sites", "text": "Hindu pilgrimage sites\n\nIn religion and spirituality, a pilgrimage is a long journey or search of great moral significance. Sometimes, it is a journey to a sacred place or shrine of importance to a naat\nfaith. Members of every major religion participate in pilgrimages. A person who makes such a journey is called a pilgrim.\n\nUnlike some other religions, Hindus are not required to undertake pilgrimages during their lifetime. However, most Hindus go on such journeys to numerous iconic sites including those below:\n\nChar Dham (Famous Four Pilgrimage sites): The four holy sites Puri, Rameswaram, Dwarka, and Badrinath (or alternatively the Himalayan towns of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri) compose the \"Char Dham\" (\"four abodes\") pilgrimage circuit.\n\nKumbh Mela: The \"Kumbh Mela\" (the \"pitcher festival\") is one of the holiest of Hindu pilgrimages that is held every three years; the location is rotated among Prayagraj, Haridwar, Nashik, and Ujjain.\n\nOld Holy cities as per Puranic Texts: Varanasi formerly known as Kashi, Prayagraj also known as Prayag, Haridwar-Rishikesh, Mathura-Vrindavan, Kurukshetra, the Land of Bhagavad Gita in Haryana and Ayodhya.\n\nOld Temple cities: Puri, which hosts a major Vaishnava Jagannath temple and Rath Yatra celebration; Katra, home to the Vaishno Devi temple; Tirumala - Tirupati, home to the Tirumala Venkateswara Temple; Madurai Meenakshi and Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Sri Rangam, and Sabarimala, where Swami Ayyappan is worshipped; Sri Padmanabhaswamy Temple at Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. The oldest of these temple pilgrimage is the Pandharpur Wari which is said to be in tradition from the past 800 years.\n\nNew Pilgrimage Centres: Three comparatively recent temples of fame and huge pilgrimage are Belur Math, the hub of the worldwide Ramakrishna Movement in West Bengal, Dakshineswar Kali Temple, Kolkata; Vivekananda Rock Memorial at Kanyakumari; Sri Ramana Ashram at Tiruvannamalai; Sri Radha Krishna Mandir https://www.iskconbangalore.org/ of ISCKON in Bengaluru. Ramakrishna Mission Swami Vivekananda's Ancestral House and Cultural Centre, the birthplace of Swami Vivekananda is also another popular destination. \n\nShakti Peethas: An important set of pilgrimages are the \"Shakti Peethas\", where the Mother Goddess is worshipped, the two principal ones being \"Kalighat\" and \"Kamakhya\". There are altogether 51 shakti peethas.\n\nJyotirlingas: Other set of important pilgrimages are the \"Jyotirlingas\", where lord Shiva is worshipped in the form of Shiva Lingas. There are twelve Jyotirlingas in India. The twelve Jyotirlingas are:\n\nDivya Desam: Another important set of pilgrimages are the \"Divya Desam\", the holy temples where Lord Vishnu is worshipped. There are 108 Divya Desams. Tirumala Venkateswara Temple at Tirupati is one among them.\n\nTirth Kshetra\nKodlamane Shree Vishnumurthy Temple is a powerful Tirth Kshetra. There is no other place like this anywhere in Brahmand\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1893 Swami Vivekananda Brings Modern-Day Swamis to Annisquam\nFor the celebration of the 150th anniversary of Vivekananda's birth, the Vedanta Societies of Boston and Providence joined with the Annisquam Village Church in an interfaith service on July 28, 2013. The service was filled with a wonderful energy.\nSaffron robes and languages ranging from French to Bengali make annual appearances at the Annisquam Village Church in Gloucester. Modern-day Hindu Pilgrims visit to pay homage and walk in the steps of Swami Vivekananda, the first Hindu monk in America, who spoke from the Church's pulpit in 1893, just before he made history at the first meeting of the World Parliament of Religions in Chicago (an adjunct event to the Columbian Exposition) as representative of Hinduism. Eloquent and, at the time, exotic, Vivekananda mesmerized his audiences both here and in Chicago, winning new respect for and interest in the religions of the East. He started the Vedanta Societies in America to spread his message of harmony of religions and inherent divinity of the soul. Vivekananda remained in Gloucester for several weeks during his two visits. First as the guest of John Henry Wright, a Greek professor at Harvard who helped Vivekananda make the arrangements for his Parliament appearance; and then he stayed at the Annisquam residence of Alpheus Hyatt, whose marine biology station on Lobster Cove was the first iteration of the present-day Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute. Hyatt was the father of Gloucester's renowned sculptor, Anna Hyatt (later Huntington), who would have been 17 at the time of the Swami's visit. More than 100 years later, devotees of this visionary Hindu man make annual pilgrimages to the Village Church, to touch the stone doorstep and to meditate in the serene space where their leader spoke. The service included brief addresses by Swami Yogatmananda of Providence (Hindu Chaplain at Brown University and UMass Dartmouth), and Swami Tyagananda of Boston (Hindu Chaplain at Harvard and MIT), and the Rev. Deirdre Greenwood White, Pastor of the Annisquam Village Church. Music from both traditions included preludes of sitar and tabla. The children of the Village Church performed a short play portraying the arrival of Swami Vivekananda in Annisquam. A simple Indian meal followed the service and included a partial screening of the new documentary about Vivekananda's sojourn in America.\n\nFirst visit to the West (1893–97)\nVivekananda started his journey to the West on 31 May 1893[82] and visited several cities in Japan (including Nagasaki, Kobe, Yokohama, Osaka, Kyoto and Tokyo),[83] China and Canada en route to the United States,[82] reaching Chicago on 30 July 1893,[84] [82] where the \"Parliament of Religions\" took place in September 1893.[85] The Congress was an initiative of the Swedenborgian layman, and judge of the Illinois Supreme Court, Charles C. Bonney,[86] [87] to gather all the religions of the world, and show \"the substantial unity of many religions in the good deeds of the religious life.\"[86] It was one of the more than 200 adjunct gatherings and congresses of the Chicago's World's Fair,[86] and was \"an avant-garde intellectual manifestation of [...] cultic milieus, East and West,\"[88] with the Brahmo Samaj and the Theosophical Society being invited as being representative of Hinduism.[89]\n\nVivekananda wanted to join, but was disappointed to learn that no one without credentials from a bona fide organisation would be accepted as a delegate.[90] Vivekananda contacted Professor John Henry Wright of Harvard University, who invited him to speak at Harvard.[90] Vivekananda wrote of the professor, \"He urged upon me the necessity of going to the Parliament of Religions, which he thought would give an introduction to the nation\".[91] [note 3] Vivekananda submitted an application, \"introducing himself as a monk 'of the oldest order of sannyāsis ... founded by Sankara,'\"[89] supported by the Brahmo Samaj representative Protapchandra Mozoombar, who was also a member of the Parliament's selection committee, \"classifying the Swami as a representative of the Hindu monastic order.\"[89] http://www.annisquamvillagechurch.org/swami-vivekananda.html.Pilgrimages in india ar beautifull.\n\nList of Hindu temples\n\n https://www.iskconbangalore.org/\n"}
{"id": "24404939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24404939", "title": "Hokora", "text": "Hokora\n\nA is a miniature Shinto shrine either found on the precincts of a larger shrine and dedicated to folk \"kami\", or on a street side, enshrining \"kami\" not under the jurisdiction of any large shrine. \"Dōsojin\", minor \"kami\" protecting travelers from evil spirits, can for example be enshrined in a \"hokora\". \nThe term \"hokora\", believed to have been one of the first Japanese words for Shinto shrine, evolved from , literally meaning \"kami repository\", a fact that seems to indicate that the first shrines were huts built to house some \"yorishiro\". \n\n"}
{"id": "5278740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5278740", "title": "Islam in Montenegro", "text": "Islam in Montenegro\n\nMuslims in Montenegro form the largest minority religion in the country. According to the 2011 census, Montenegro's 118,477 Muslims make up 20% of the total population. Montenegro's Muslims belong mostly to the Sunni branch.\n\nIn the 15th century the Montenegrin ruler Ivan Crnojević (1465–1490) was at war with the infiltrating Venetians unable to maintain war on both fronts Ottoman Empire had conquered much of Montenegro's territory and introduced Islam. Ivan's third son Staniša Crnojević was the first prominent Montenegrin of the Muslim faith, and since then Islam was not an uncommon religion to the Crnojević Montenegrin ruling dynasty.\n\nStaniša Crnojević took up the name \"Skenderbeg Crnojević\" and ruled from his capital at Cetinje. He is well known as one of the most prominent Muslim administrators in the northern reaches of the Ottoman Empire of Slavic origins during the reign of Sultan Selim I. Staniša Crnojević is known to have commanded an army of approximately 3000 Akıncı he also maintained correspondence with neighboring contemporaries such as Gazi Husrev-beg.\n\nThe Muslims of Montenegro are mostly Bosniaks and Albanians by ethnicity but also some are declared Muslims by nationality and Montenegrins. The Muslims can be mostly found in the Sandžak region in Montenegro and Ulcinj, Bar and Podgorica. Bosniaks have virtually the same ethnic background with the Montenegrin Muslims, but differ in ideology of what ethnicity they belong to. In Montenegro are established 13 Councils of Islamic Community: Podgorica, Tuzi, Dinoša, Bar, Ostros, Ulcinj, Pljevlja, Bijelo Polje, Berane, Petnjica, Rožaje, Plav and Gusinje.\n\nEthnic composition according to the 2011 census:\nOf the total 118,477 Muslims:\n\nThere are large regional differences in the Muslim population. Rožaje Municipality, for example, is almost exclusively inhabited by Muslims, while there are zero Muslims living in Plužine Municipality. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "341856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341856", "title": "Jacob Emden", "text": "Jacob Emden\n\nJacob Emden, also known as Ya'avetz (June 4, 1697 – April 19, 1776), was a leading German rabbi and talmudist who championed Orthodox Judaism in the face of the growing influence of the Sabbatean movement. He was acclaimed in all circles for his extensive knowledge, thus Moses Mendelssohn, founder of the Jewish Enlightenment movement, wrote to him as \"your disciple, who thirsts for your words.\" Although Emden did not approve of the Hasidic movement which evolved during his lifetime, his books are highly regarded amongst the Hasidim. Thirty-one works were published during his lifetime, ten posthumously, while others remain in manuscript.\n\nEmden was the son of the Chacham Tzvi, and a descendant of Elijah Ba'al Shem of Chelm. He lived most his life in Altona (now a part of Hamburg, Germany), where he held no official rabbinic position and earned a living by printing books. His son was Meshullam Solomon, rabbi of the Hambro Synagogue in London who claimed authority as Chief Rabbi of the United Kingdom from 1765 to 1780.\n\nUntil the age of seventeen, Emden studied Talmud under his father Tzvi Ashkenazi, a foremost rabbinic authority, first at Altona, then at Amsterdam (1710–1714). In 1715 Emden married Rachel, daughter of Mordecai ben Naphtali Kohen, rabbi of Ungarisch-Brod, Moravia, and continued his studies in his father-in-law's \"yeshivah\". Emden became well versed in all branches of Talmudic literature; later he studied philosophy, kabbalah, and grammar, and made an effort to acquire the Latin and Dutch languages, in which, however, he was seriously hindered by his belief that a Jew should occupy himself with secular sciences only during times it was impossible to study Torah. He was opposed to philosophy and maintained that the views contained in \"The Guide for the Perplexed\" could not have been authored by Maimonides, but rather by an unknown heretic.\n\nEmden spent three years at Ungarisch-Brod, where he held the office of private lecturer in Talmud. Later he became a dealer in jewelry and other articles, an occupation which compelled him to travel. He generally declined to accept the office of rabbi, though in 1728 he was induced to accept the rabbinate of Emden, from which place he took his name.\n\nIn 1733 Emden returned to Altona, where he obtained the permission of the Jewish community to possess a private synagogue. Emden was at first on friendly terms with Moses Hagis, the head of the Portuguese-Jewish community at Altona, who was afterward turned against Emden by some calumny. His relations with Ezekiel Katzenellenbogen, the chief rabbi of the German community, were positive at first, but deteriorated swiftly.\n\nA few years later Emden obtained from the King of Denmark the privilege of establishing at Altona a printing-press. He was soon attacked for his publication of the \"siddur\" (prayer book) \"Ammudei Shamayim\", due to his harsh criticisms of the powerful local money changers. His opponents did not cease denouncing him even after he had obtained for his work the approbation of the chief rabbi of the German communities.\n\nAccording to Jacob Katz, \"Rabbi Jacob Emden: Life and Major Works\" (Jacob J. Schacter, unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, Harvard University, 1988), \"supplanted\" Mortimer J. Cohen's 1937 book \"Jacob Emden: A Man of Controversy, \" as the most authoritative source on Emden.\n\nEmden accused Jonathan Eybeschütz of being a secret Sabbatean. The controversy lasted several years, continuing even after Eybeschütz's death. Emden's assertion of Eybeschütz's heresy was chiefly based on the interpretation of some amulets prepared by Eybeschütz, in which Emden saw Sabbatean allusions. Hostilities began before Eybeschütz left Prague, and in 1751, when Eybeschütz was named chief rabbi of the three communities of Altona, Hamburg, and Wandsbek, the controversy reached the stage of intense and bitter antagonism. Emden maintained that he was at first prevented by threats from publishing anything against Eybeschütz. He solemnly declared in his synagogue the writer of the amulets to be a Sabbatean heretic and deserving of excommunication. In <nowiki>\"Megillat Sefer\", he even accuses Eybeschütz of having an incestuous relationship with his own daughter, and of fathering a child with her. However, there have been allegations that \"Megillat Sefer\"</nowiki> was tampered with, and had deliberately ridiculous accusations, as well as outlandish tales, written in to the original in order to make a mockery of Emden.\n\nThe majority of the community, including R. Aryeh Leib Halevi-Epstein of Konigsberg, favored Eybeschütz; thus the council condemned Emden as a slanderer. People were ordered, under pain of excommunication, not to attend Emden's synagogue, and he himself was forbidden to issue anything from his press. As Emden still continued his philippics against Eybeschütz, he was ordered by the council of the three communities to leave Altona. This he refused to do, relying on the strength of the king's charter, and he was, as he maintained, relentlessly persecuted. His life seeming to be in actual danger, in May 1751 he left the town and took refuge in Amsterdam, where he had many friends and where he joined the household of his brother-in-law, Aryeh Leib ben Saul, rabbi of the Ashkenazic community.\n\nEmden's cause was subsequently taken up by the court of Frederick V of Denmark, and on June 3, 1752, a judgment was given in favor of Emden, severely censuring the council of the three communities and condemning them to a fine of one hundred thalers. Emden then returned to Altona and took possession of his synagogue and printing-establishment, though he was forbidden to continue his agitation against Eybeschütz. The latter's partisans, however, did not desist from their warfare against Emden. They accused him before the authorities of continuing to publish denunciations against his opponent. One Friday evening (July 8, 1755) his house was broken into and his papers seized and turned over to the \"Ober-Präsident,\" Von Kwalen. Six months later Von Kwalen appointed a commission of three scholars, who, after a close examination, found nothing which could incriminate Emden.\n\nThe truth or falsity of his denunciations against Eybeschütz cannot be proved; Gershom Scholem wrote much on this subject, and his student Perlmutter devoted a book to proving it. According to historian David Sorkin, Eybeschütz was probably a Sabbatean, and Eybeschütz's son openly declared himself to be a Sabbatean after his father's death.\n\nIn 1756 the members of the Synod of Constantinov applied to Emden to aid in repressing the Sabbatean movement. As the Sabbateans referred much to the Zohar, Emden thought it wise to examine that book, and after a careful study he concluded that a great part of the Zohar was the production of an impostor.\n\nEmden's works show him to have been possessed of critical powers rarely found among his contemporaries. He was strictly Orthodox, never deviating the least from tradition, even when the difference in time and circumstance might have warranted a deviation from custom. Emden's opinions were often viewed as extremely unconventional from the perspective of strictly traditional mainstream Judaism, though not so unusual in more free-thinking Enlightenment circles. Emden had friendly relations with Moses Mendelssohn, founder of the Haskalah movement, and with a number of Christian scholars.\n\nIn 1772 the Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, having issued a decree forbidding burial on the day of death, the Jews in his territories approached Emden with the request that he demonstrate from the Talmud that a longer exposure of a corpse would be against the Law. Emden referred them to Mendelssohn, who had great influence with Christian authorities and wrote in excellent German. Mendelssohn wrote the requested letter to the Duke, but privately complained to Emden that based on the Talmud, it seemed the Duke was correct. Emden wrote to him in strong terms, saying that it was ludicrous to assert that the custom of the entire Jewish people was blatantly incorrect, and told Mendelssohn that this kind of claim would only strengthen rumors of irreligiousness he (Mendelssohn) had aroused by his associations.\n\nEmden was a traditionalist who responded to the ideals of tolerance being circulated during the 18th-century Enlightenment. He stretched the traditional inclusivist position into universal directions.\nBelieving, like Maimonides, that Christianity and Islam have important roles to play in God's plan for mankind, he wrote:\nWe should consider Christians and Moslems as instruments for the fulfilment of the prophecy that the knowledge of God will one day spread throughout the earth. Whereas the nations before them worshipped idols, denied God's existence, and thus did not recognize God's power or retribution, the rise of Christianity and Islam served to spread among the nations, to the furthest ends of the earth, the knowledge that there is One God who rules the world, who rewards and punishes and reveals Himself to man.\nEmden praised the ethical teachings of the founder of Christianity, considering them as being beneficial to the Gentiles by removing the prevalence of idolatry and bestowing upon them a \"moral doctrine.\" Emden also suggested that ascetic Christian practices provided additional rectification of the soul in the same way that Judaic commandments do.\n\nIn his responsum, Emden theoretically advocated the taking of a \"pilegesh\" (concubine) by a scholar since the Rabbis stated that \"the greater the man, the greater his evil inclination.\" He collected many Talmudic and medieval examples from Judaic literature that support such behavior. Although he never put his theories into practice, he criticised the institution of obligatory matrimony and suggested that it is permissible for a Jew to cohabit freely with a single Jewish woman or even with several women without marriage, or as an addition to the legal wife. He wished to revoke the ban on polygamy instituted by Rabbeinu Gershom as he believed it erroneously followed Christian morals, but admitted he did not have the power to do so.\n\n\nHis unpublished rabbinical writings are the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "8087193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8087193", "title": "Jainism in Karnataka", "text": "Jainism in Karnataka\n\nKarnataka, a state in South India has a long association with Jainism, a religion which enjoyed patronage of major historic kingdoms in the state such as the Western Ganga, Kadamba and Chalukya dynasties and the Hoysala Empire. Today the state is home to a number of Jain monuments, such as temples, Gommata statues and stambhas.\n\nHistorical association of Jainism with Karnataka dates back to the 3rd century BC. Acharya Bhadrabahu, predicted a twelve-year-long famine in north India and led the migration of Jain sangha to the south. He was accompanied by his disciple Chandragupta Maurya and the \"Sangha\" halted at Chandragiri Hill. Realising that he was nearing the end of his life, Bhadrabahu instructed his disciples to spread the religion and he undertook sallekhana at Chandragiri.\n\nChandragupta Maurya continued to live on this hill worshipping the foot prints of his teacher and later he too took Sallekhana. There are two monuments on the hill recalling this event, a rock cut cave called Bhadrabahu cave and a structural shrine called the Chandragupta Basadi.\n\nThere are a number of monuments relating to the Jain religion in Karnataka. The Jain monuments include smaller shrines, Jain temples (known as \"Bastis\" or Basadis), Gommata statues and Sthambas (pillars). Moodabidri,(ಸಾವಿರ ಕಂಬದ ಬಸಧಿ) is home to the 1000 Pillar Jain temple.\n\nThe most prominent among them are as follows:\n\n\nShravanabelagola has the world famous monolithic statue, Gommateshwara statue. Similar Monolithic statues of Lord Bahubali can be also seen in Venur, Dharmasthala, Karkala and Mysore.\n\nThere are five monolithic statues of Bahubali in Karnataka measuring more than 20 feet in height.\n\nIn all of the above-mentioned places, the holy festival of \"Mahamastakabhisheka\" is held once every 12 years when the statue of Bahubali is worshiped and bathed in holy water, milk, turmeric, and other natural herbs that have their own significant importance.\n\nJainism in North Karnataka flourished under the Chalukyas, Kadamba and Rashtrakutas, and Vijayanagara empire. Imbued with an intense religious feeling, lavish patronage was extended towards the building of basadis, temples and magnificent statues. Jainism enjoyed the highest repute among the people particularly the ruling classes and the mercantile community thus virtually becoming the state religion.\n\nThe earliest dated structure is a Basadi at Halasi built under the Kadamba Dynasty of Banavasi thus laying the foundation for Jain architecture in North Karnataka. Rastrakutas period is the golden age of Jainsim in Karnataka. The Jaina monuments of the Rashtrakutas period are found at Pattadakal, Malkhed, Lakshmeshwar, Koppal, Bankur, of North Karnataka. Jainism exerted considerable influence over the cultural life of Karnataka during the rule of the Rashtrakutas.\n\nKadambas of Banavasi were known to be patrons of Jainism. After the rule of the Kadambas of Banavasi most parts of north Karnataka came under the rule of the early Chalukya or Badami Chalukyas.\n\nThe Chalukyas of Badami built cave temples at Badami, Pattadkal and Aihole. Puligere was a strong centre of religious activities of the Jain monks during this era.\n\nLakkundi in Gadag District has a large Brahma Jinalaya of \"Chalukya\" style, built by a noble lady, Attimabbe.\n\nNavagraha Jain Temple at Varur near Hubli is one of the major pilgrimage. The temple features a 61 feet (18.6 m) tall monolithic idol of the Shri 1008 Bhagavan Parshvanatha and the smaller statues of the other 8 Jain teerthankaras.\n\nThe Dakshin Bharat Jain Sabha is a religious and social service organisation of the Jains of South India. The organisation is headquartered at Kolhapur, Maharashtra, India. The association is credited with being one of the first Jain associations to start reform movements among the Jains in modern India. The organisation mainly seeks to represent the interests of the native Jains of Maharashtra (Marathi Jains), Karnataka (Kannada Jains) and Goa.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7205330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7205330", "title": "Kings of Alba Longa", "text": "Kings of Alba Longa\n\nThe kings of Alba Longa, or Alban kings (Latin: \"reges Albani\"), were a series of legendary kings of Latium, who ruled from the ancient city of Alba Longa. In the mythic tradition of ancient Rome, they fill the 400-year gap between the settlement of Aeneas in Italy and the founding of the city of Rome by Romulus. It was this line of descent to which the Julii claimed kinship. The traditional line of the Alban kings ends with Numitor, the grandfather of Romulus and Remus. One later king, Gaius Cluilius, is mentioned by Roman historians, although his relation to the original line, if any, is unknown; and after his death, a few generations after the time of Romulus, the city was destroyed by Tullus Hostilius, the third King of Rome, and its population transferred to Alba's daughter city.\n\nThe city of Alba Longa, often abbreviated \"Alba\", was a Latin settlement in the \"montes Albani\", or Alban Hills, near the present site of Castel Gandolfo in Latium. Although the exact location remains difficult to prove, there is archaeological evidence of Iron Age settlements in the area traditionally identified as the site. In Roman mythology, Alba was founded by Ascanius, the son of Aeneas, as a colony of Lavinium, the original settlement of Trojan refugees and native Latins, which it quickly eclipsed. There is some uncertainty in the tradition as to Ascanius' mother; in some accounts he was the son of Lavinia, and grandson of Latinus, the native king who welcomed Aeneas and the Trojans; his elder half brother, Iulus, was the son of Creusa, Aeneas' first wife, who died in the sack of Troy. This was the account favoured by Livy; in other versions, Ascanius was the son of Creusa; Dionysius and Virgil follow this account. However, the two differ where Vergil claims Ascanius and Iulus were the same; Dionysius, on the other hand, makes Iulus the son of Ascanius. In all accounts, Ascanius was the founder and first king of Alba Longa, while Iulus was claimed as the ancestor of the Julian gens.\n\nEratosthenes, the most influential of the ancient chronologists, reckoned that the sack of Troy occurred in 1184 BC, more than four centuries before the traditional founding of Rome, in 753. The history of the Alban kings conveniently filled that gap with a continuous line leading from Aeneas to Romulus, thus serving as a mythical justification for the close ties between Rome and the rest of Latium, and enhancing the status of Roman and Latin families who claimed descent from the original Trojan settlers or their Alban descendants. Such was the eagerness in the late Republic to claim a Trojan pedigree that fifteen different lists of the Alban kings from Aeneas to Romulus survive.\n\nWhen Aeneas and the Trojan refugees landed on the shores of the Laurentian plain, they encountered the Latins, led by their eponymous king, Latinus. The Latins were \"aborigines\"; that is, the original inhabitants of Latium, a title sometimes used to refer to the Latins before the arrival of Aeneas. Latinus was the son of Faunus, and grandson of Picus, the first king of Latium, who was in turn the son of Saturn. This was the most usual account, followed by Virgil in the Aeneid, and by Eusebius, but there were also several other versions. Picus was also said to be the son of Mars, rather than Saturn. According to Justin, Faunus was Latinus' maternal grandfather, and was the son of Jupiter, rather than Picus; in this account Saturn was the first king of the Latins. According to Dionysius of Halicarnassus, Latinus was the son of Hercules, and merely pretended to be the son of Faunus; Aeneas arrived in the thirty-fifth year of his reign over the Aborigines.\n\nEvander and Janus are also sometimes described as ancient kings of the Aborigines; but Livy describes Evander as a king of the Arcadians, as does Virgil, who makes him an ally of Aeneas in the war against the Rutuli. In his \"Saturnalia\", Macrobius describes Janus as sharing Latium with another king, known as Camese.\n\nThe Latins were alarmed by the arrival of the Trojans, and rushed to arms; according to some accounts, a battle was fought, in which Latinus was defeated, and a peace concluded between the two groups, cemented by the marriage of Aeneas and Lavinia, daughter of the Latin king; in other versions battle was narrowly averted when the two leaders chose to parley before hostilities could begin, and Aeneas impressed his host with his noble bearing and woeful story, leading to an alliance. Aeneas then established the town of Lavinium, named after his young bride, with a mixed population of Trojans and Latins.\n\nBut the new settlers and their alliance with Latinus soon encountered threats from two neighboring peoples. First the Rutuli, whose prince, Turnus, had previously been betrothed to Lavinia, marched against them. The new allies defeated the Rutuli, but Latinus was slain in the fighting, whereupon Aeneas assumed the leadership of both Trojans and Latins, declaring that henceforth all of his followers should be known as Latins. Subsequently Mezentius, king of the Etruscan city of Caere, led an army against the Latins; he too was defeated after fierce fighting, but Aeneas fell in battle, or died soon afterward, and was buried on the banks of the Numicus, where he was later regarded as \"Jupiter Indiges\", the local god.\n\nBecause Ascanius was still a child, Lavinia acted as regent until he came of age. Livy describes her as a woman of great character, who was able to maintain the peace between the Latins and their Etruscan neighbors to the north; he also describes the boundary between Latium and Etruria, fixed by treaty after the battle between Aeneas and Mezentius as the river Albula, subsequently known as the Tiber.\n\nAbout thirty years after the founding of Lavinium, when the original Trojan settlement was flourishing and populous, Ascanius decided to establish a colony in the Alban Hills, which, as it was initially spread out along a ridge, became known as Alba Longa. Nothing further is written of Ascanius, who was succeeded by his son, Silvius, according to Livy. Silvius' name was reportedly derived from his having been born in the woods, and Dionysius records a different tradition, whereby he was not the son of Ascanius, but his half-brother, the son of Aeneas and Lavinia. In this account, Lavinia feared that Ascanius, already a young man upon the death of his father, would harm her or her child, as threats to his bloodline, and therefore hid in the woods, where she was sheltered by Tyrrhenus, the royal swineherd and a friend of her father, Latinus. She and her son emerged from hiding when the Latins accused Ascanius of having done away with his stepmother. Silvius then succeeded Ascanius as king of the Latins, in preference to Ascanius' son, Iulus, whom Dionysius identifies as the ancestor of the Julii. According to Dionysius, Ascanius died in the thirty-eighth year of his reign, counting from the death of Aeneas, rather than the founding of Alba Longa.\n\nLivy records that Silvius founded several colonies, later known as the \"Prisci Latini\", or \"Old Latins\". According to Dionysius, he reigned for twenty-nine years. He was succeeded by his son, Aeneas Silvius, who assumed his father's name as a \"cognomen\", or surname; henceforth all of his descendants bore the name \"Silvius\" in addition to their personal names. This was the same process by which the \"nomen gentilicium\" later developed throughout Italy. Aeneas reigned for thirty-one years, and was succeeded by Latinus Silvius, who reigned for fifty-one years. The next king, Alba, reigned for thirty-nine years; according to Livy, he was succeeded by Atys, who reigned for twenty-six years, followed by Capys, who reigned twenty-eight years, and Capetus, who ruled for thirteen years.\n\nCapetus' successor, Tiberinus, was drowned crossing the river Albula, which was henceforth known as the Tiber in his memory; Dionysius says that he was slain in battle, and his body carried away by the river, after a reign of eight years. Tiberinus was followed by Agrippa, who ruled for forty-one years, and was succeeded by his son, Romulus Silvius, whom Dionysius calls Allocius. Livy states simply that he was struck by lightning, but Dionysius describes him as tyrannical and contemptuous of the gods; he imitated thunder and lightning, so as to appear like a god before the people, whereupon he and his whole household were destroyed by thunder and lightning, and overwhelmed by the waters of the adjoining lake, after a reign of nineteen years. He bequeathed his throne to Aventinus, who reigned for thirty-seven years, and was buried on the hill that bears his name. He was followed by Proca, who reigned for twenty-three years.\n\nProca had two sons, Numitor and Amulius; his will was that he be succeeded by the elder son, Numitor, but Amulius drove out his brother, claiming the throne for himself. He had his brother's sons put to death, and appointed Numitor's daughter, Rhea Silvia, a Vestal Virgin, supposedly to do her honour, but in fact to ensure her perpetual virginity and prevent any further issue in her father's line. But Rhea was raped, and gave birth to twin sons, Romulus and Remus; she claimed that their father was Mars himself. Amulius had her thrown in prison, and ordered the infants thrown into the Tiber. But as the Tiber was swollen and its banks unreachable, the boys were exposed at the base of a fig tree, where they were suckled by a she-wolf, and then discovered by the shepherd Faustulus, who raised them with the aid of his wife, Acca Larentia. When they had grown to manhood, Romulus and Remus contrived to assassinate their wicked uncle, and restored their grandfather to the throne. According to Dionysius, Amulius reigned forty-two years.\n\nThe following year, which Dionysius makes the four hundred and thirty-second since the fall of Troy (i.e. 751 BC, only two years later than the era of Varro), Romulus and Remus set out to establish an Alban colony, which ultimately became the city of Rome. As Numitor had no further issue, the Silvian dynasty of Alba Longa ends with him.\n\nNothing further is reported of Alba Longa or its kings until the time of Tullus Hostilius, the third King of Rome, who according to tradition reigned from approximately 673 to 642 BC. During his reign, a series of cattle raids between Roman and Alban territory led to a declaration of war by Hostilius. At that time, the Alban king was Gaius Cluilius, whose relationship to the Silvii, if any, is entirely unknown. He set about arming the Alban populace and preparing for war, and constructed a large trench around the perimeter of Rome. However, he died before the two sides could engage in battle. It is not known whether he had any sons to succeed him in the kingship; the ancient historians report only that the military command was entrusted to Mettius Fufetius, who negotiated that the war be decided by a contest of champions; victory fell to Rome when the Horatii defeated the Curiatii, and peace was restored.\n\nLater, Fufetius arranged to join Fidenae in a revolt against Roman authority, aided by the Etruscan city of Veii. At a crucial point in the battle between the Roman and Fidenate armies, Fufetius, in command of the Alban forces ostensibly allied with Rome, withdrew from the field. After this betrayal, Hostilius determined to revenge himself upon both Fufetius and Alba Longa. By a ruse he induced the surrender of the Albans, and had Fufetius torn asunder by horses; he then forcibly relocated the entire Alban populace to Rome, and razed the city of Alba Longa to the ground.\n\nThe traditions relating to the origins of Rome and the Latins belong to the realm of Roman mythology. This is not to say that the persons or events related in such traditions did not exist, or were solely the product of deliberate invention by later generations. But the earliest surviving records and accounts postdate the period of the Alban kings by several centuries, leaving little basis upon which to evaluate their historicity. In particular, the tradition connecting the founding of Alba Longa with the flight of Aeneas from Troy was only one of a number of stories about the origins of Rome, and although doubtless ancient, it shows the hallmarks of having developed over a long period.\n\nThe first literary suggestions that the Romans were descended from survivors of the Trojan War are found among the Greek writers, many of whom considered the Romans descendants of the Achaeans, rather than the Trojans. At the conclusion of the \"Theogony\", Hesiod mentions Latinus and Agrius as sons of Odysseus and Circe; Agrius ruled over the Tyrrhenians, originally a somewhat vague term for the inhabitants of central Italy, which in later times was applied specifically to the Etruscans. This passage reveals Hellenic interest in the peoples of Italy dating to at least the eighth century BC. In this account, the Romans are descended from Odysseus, one of the Achaeans, rather than his contemporary, the Trojan prince Aeneas. Writing in the fourth century BC, Heraclides Ponticus, a pupil of Plato, referred to Rome as a \"Greek city\". About the same time, Aristotle related a tradition that Achaean warriors returning home after the Trojan War were driven to Italy by a storm. Stranded on the Italian shores with a number of captive Trojan women, they built a settlement called \"Latinium\".\n\nThe Etruscans were particularly interested in the myth of Aeneas and Anchises from at least the late sixth century BC. Perhaps influenced by Hesiod, they originally considered the Greek Odysseus to be their founder-hero, but later embraced Aeneas as their founder due to their growing rivalry with the Greek city-states of Italy; increasingly they perceived the Greek colonists as their enemies, rather than partners in trade. Aeneas is depicted on a number of black-figure and red figure vases unearthed in southern Etruria, dating from the end of the sixth century to the middle of the fifth century BC.\n\nFor a century beginning in the late seventh century BC, Roman culture was heavily influenced by the Etruscans. Lucius Tarquinius Priscus, the fifth king of Rome, and his grandson, Lucius Tarquinius Superbus, the seventh and last king, were Etruscans, and it may have been during this period that the Etruscan interest in Aeneas was transmitted to Rome. Writing toward the end of the third century BC, Quintus Fabius Pictor, the father of Roman history, related the story that the Romans were descended from Aeneas, via his son Ascanius, the founder of Alba Longa. In his account of Roman origins, Pictor described a continuous history of Greek exports to Italy, including the landing of Heracles and the establishment of a colony on the Palatine Hill by the Arcadians under Evander, to whom he attributed the introduction of the alphabet.\n\nIn the second century BC, Marcus Porcius Cato, better known as Cato the Elder, composed his own history of Roman origins, following the existing traditions relating to Aeneas and his descendants; but to Cato, the Aborigines were themselves Greeks, and Romulus received the Aeolic tongue from Evander.\n\nIn the \"Iliad\", the god Poseidon prophesied that the descendants of Aeneas (the \"Aeneadae\"), would survive the Trojan War and rule their people forever, but also that the rule of the Aeneadae would never happen in Troy. Virgil provided the imperial legacy of the Aeneadae by making Iulus the divine ancestor of Augustus in the \"Aeneid\". From this divine connection the line of Aeneas stretched through Romulus, Augustus, and the Julio-Claudian emperors down to Nero.\n\nIt was popular in the late Roman republic for the more distinguished families to claim divine origin, and it was believed that Iulus (Ascanius) was the mythical ancestor of the \"gens Julia\". A notable member of the family, Julius Caesar, is said to have gone to Mount Alba to preside over the \"Feriae Latinae\", Latin rites originally celebrated by the kings of Alba Longa. This confused many Romans, who hailed him as king upon his return to Rome. Mindful of the Republic's ancient traditions, including one by which any person claiming to be King of Rome was to be put to death, he rejected this honour.\n\nIn the Forum of Augustus, statues of the kings of Alba Longa and members of the Julian family were placed with Aeneas in the northwest hemicycle. In that hemicycle were the statues of Aeneas, the kings of Alba Longa, and M. Claudius Marcellus, C. Julius Caesar Strabo, and Julius Caesar (the adoptive father of Augustus) among others. The northeast hemicycle had \"summi viri\" placed with Romulus. Augustus' funerary procession reflects the same kind of propaganda as his \"Hall of Heroes\" and included many of the same statues, with one headed by Aeneas and the other by Romulus. In propagating his apotheosis, Augustus chose to include his adoptive father Julius Caesar who had recently achieved divinity himself, whereas Aeneas and Romulus are included for their divinity was well established.\n\nKings of Alba Longa would have claimed to be descendents of Jupiter as Virgil demonstrates in the Aeneid. He represents the Alban kings as being crowned with a civic oak-leaf crown. The Roman kings then adopted the crown, becoming personifications of Jupiter on earth. Latinus was thought to have become \"Jupiter Latiaris\" after \"vanishing\" during a battle with Mezentius (king of Caere). So too, Aeneas disappeared from a battle with Mezentius or with Turnus, and became \"Jupiter Indiges\". Romulus (not unlike his Alban predecessors) became Quirinus, the \"Oak-god\", when he was called up to heaven.\n\nGeoffrey of Monmouth, a Benedictine monk living in the 12th century AD, wrote a fabricated history of the kings of Britain (\"Historia Regum Britanniae\"). In this history Britain is said to receive its name from Brutus, the first of its kings. According to him, Brutus was the son of Silvius and the grandson of Aeneas. While on a hunting trip with his father he accidentally shoots him and so flees Italy. First, Brutus goes to Greece and gathers Trojan companions who join him on his journey to Britain, where he takes the island from a race of giants.\n\nBenoît de Saint-Maure names Charlemagne as a descendant of the mythical Francus, thus linking the Plantagenet family to Aeneas. Francus, like Aeneas, survived the destruction of Troy and traveled to find a new home. He installed a territory with other Trojans comprising the entire Rhine and the Danube and founded a powerful village named Sicambri.\n\nThe ancient historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus is believed to have invented the Alban chronology to fill the gap of centuries between the fall of Troy and the founding of Rome. This could have been achieved by him taking the Roman history as it was, comparing it with the Greek, and inserting Greek Olympiads or Athenian archons. This method would have made the Greek histories seem contemporary with the people and events in the Roman history of his time.\n\nThe names of the kings are often based on places around Rome, such as Tiberinus, Aventinus, Alba, and Capetus. Others are rationalizations of mythical figures, or pure inventions to provide notable ancestors for status-seeking families. In the \"Aeneid\", Virgil invents characters into living beings not unlike the heroes of Homer. The events described toward the end of the \"Aeneid\" were a nationalistic interpretation of perceived historical events in Roman history. However, despite being a later invention, the Silvian house or \"gens Silvia\" likely did exist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2830006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2830006", "title": "Kou Qianzhi", "text": "Kou Qianzhi\n\nKou Qianzhi () (365–448) was a Taoist reformer who reenvisioned many of the ceremonies and rites of the Way of the Celestial Master form of Taoism and reformulated its theology into a new movement known as The Northern Celestial Masters. His influence was such that he had Taoism established as the official state religion of the Northern Wei dynasty (386–534); this act, however, embroiled Taoism in long and often bloody factional political struggles. There was a saying Kou Qianzhi once secluded in Mount Huashan for his taoism meditation.\n\nKou apparently began his career as a Taoist physician and hygienist. But in 415 he had a vision: a spirit appeared before him and told him that since the death of Zhang Daoling, the great founder of the Way of the Celestial Master (\"Tradition of the Celestial Master of the Mighty Commonwealth of Orthodox Oneness\") sect of Taoism, the sect had been corrupted by false doctrines. Kou was awarded Zhang Daoling's old title of tianshi (\"celestial master\") and was charged in the vision with eliminating excesses in Taoist rituals. Accordingly, Kou began to attempt to curb the orgiastic practices and mercenary spirit that had become associated with Taoist rites and to place greater emphasis on hygienic ritual and good works.\n\nKou gained many adherents and, by making Taoism into a more orthodox doctrine, attracted the attention of Emperor Taiwu of Northern Wei. In 423 Kou had the title of tianshi conferred upon himself by Imperial decree, thereby establishing the \"Taoist papacy\": the title was passed to the church's leader from generation to generation in an unbroken line. By conspiring with certain court officials, Kou's patron Cui Hao was able to have Buddhism, Taoism's chief competitor, proscribed from the realm and all its practitioners subjected to a bloody persecution. Taoism then became the official religion of the Northern Wei Dynasty.\n\nBut Kou's efforts were only temporarily effective: Buddhism soon returned to north China, after the deaths of Cui Hao and Emperor Taiwu and the accession of Taiwu's devoutly Buddhist grandson Emperor Wencheng. Moreover, because orgiastic Taoist rites were still noted as late as the Tang dynasty, many observers view his reforms as transitory.\n\n寇謙之 Kou Qianzhi was the leader of the Celestial Masters north branch.\n\nCelestial Masters north branch under Kou Qianzhi worshipped divinities described in the 魏書 Book of Wei. Yin Xi and the Elder Lord are abesnt from the Celestial Masters of Kou Qianzhi.\n\nAn anti Buddhist plan was concocted by the Celestial Masters under Kou Qianzhi along with Cui Hao under the Taiwu Emperor. The Celestial Masters of the north urged the persecution of Buddhists under the Taiwu Emperor in the Northern Wei, attacking Buddhism and the Buddha as wicked and as anti stability and anti family. Anti Buddhism was the position of Kou Qianzhi. There was no ban on the Celestial Masters despite the nofullfilment of Cui Hao and Kou Qianzhi's agenda in their anti Buddhist campaign.\n"}
{"id": "18533481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533481", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Equatorial Guinea", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Equatorial Guinea\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Equatorial Guinea (former Spanish colony in West Africa) is composed only of a Latin hierarchy, <br>joint in a national Episcopal Conference of Equatorial Guinea, <br>comprising one ecclesiastical province consisting of the Metropolitan Archdiocese and four suffragan dioceses.\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic, pre-diocesan or other exempt jurisdictions.\n\nThere are no titular sees. All defunct jurisdictions have current successor sees.\n\nThere is formally an Apostolic Nunciature as papal diplomatic representation (embassy-level) to Equatorial Guinea, but it is vested in the Apostolic Nunciature to neighbor Cameroon, in its capital Yaoundé. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9152006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9152006", "title": "List of Solesvara temples", "text": "List of Solesvara temples\n\nThe Choleswarar temples were in constructed by the honorable Chola kings, who were Believers of the True God Siva (Shiva).\nOther Shiva temples built by Chola:\n\nSimilar to Solesvara, there are number of temples in praise of the Pandiya kings and they are called Pandisvara.\n"}
{"id": "54547610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54547610", "title": "List of mosques in Qatar", "text": "List of mosques in Qatar\n\nThis is a list of mosques in Qatar. As of 28 May 2017, there were a total of 2,000 mosques recorded in the country.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1964410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1964410", "title": "Lucifer Rising (book)", "text": "Lucifer Rising (book)\n\nLucifer Rising () is a book written by author and Church of Satan priest Gavin Baddeley. The book covers both the recent and ancient history of Satanism, and provides an examination of modern Satanist culture. The book is published by Plexus Publishing (1999).\n\nOrganized into three parts—\"The History of Satanism,\" \"Satanism in 20th-Century Culture,\" and The Satanic Millenium \"—much of the book is composed of interviews with a wide variety of personages associated with either the Satanic religion or its concomitant aesthetic, including Anton Szandor LaVey, Kenneth Anger, and Kerry Bolton.\n\nOther individuals discussed in \"Lucifer Rising\" include Aleister Crowley, Michael Aquino, and Charles Manson.\n"}
{"id": "23373407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23373407", "title": "Marthe Robin", "text": "Marthe Robin\n\nVenerable Marthe Robin (13 March 1902 in Châteauneuf-de-Galaure – 6 February 1981) was a French Roman Catholic mystic and stigmatist and foundress of the Foyers de Charité. She became bedridden when she was 21 years old, and remained so until her death. According to witnesses she ate nothing for many years apart from receiving Holy Eucharist.\n\nA file of documents supporting her beatification was submitted to the diocesan authorities in 1987, and transmitted to the Vatican in 1996. On 6 May 2010 a \"\" was signed in Rome by the Congregation for the Causes of Saints. This file was made up of all the documents that support Robin's reputation for holiness. It culminated in her recognition for heroic virtues on 7 November 2014.\n\nMarthe Robin was born into a peasant farming family on 13 March 1902 in Châteauneuf-de-Galaure (Drôme, France), in a hamlet called Les Moillés, which was locally known as \"La Plaine\". She was the sixth and last child of Joseph-Michel Robin and Amélie-Célestine Robin (née Chosson). She attended to the Châteauneuf-de-Galaure primary school, and stayed there until she was thirteen. She never took her end of primary school exams. She helped out on the family farm and participated in village life. Her personality is described by some witness as being \"a happy young girl, open to the future, helpful, and sometimes mischievous...\". In spite of the fact that her parents were non-practicing Catholics, Marthe was drawn to prayer at an early age. She said: \"J'ai toujours énormément aimé le Bon Dieu comme petite fille… J'ai toujours énormément prié dans ma vie\" (\"I always really loved God when I was a little girl. I have always prayed throughout my life\").\n\nIn 1903, Marthe Robin and her older sister, Clémence, both caught typhoid fever, of which Clémence died. Though close to death for a time, Marthe Robin recovered. Nevertheless, she had fragile health throughout the rest of her childhood.\n\nMarthe fell sick again on 1 December 1918. The doctors who examined her thought she had a brain tumor. She fell into a coma which lasted four days. When she came out of the coma, she seemed better for several weeks. Then the sickness got worse, until she was partially paralyzed. She also had eyesight problems, and lost her sight altogether for several months. In April–May 1921, she went into remission, but this was followed by several crises, which culminated in the definitive paraylsis of her lower body from May 1928 onwards.\n\nMarthe continued to live on the farm, and her family and friends became her carers. Like many sick people, she suffered from the incomprehension of those around her, including members of her family. Her mobility problems, combined with hypersensitivity to light obliged her to become a recluse in a dark bedroom.\n\nAn interpretation of her sickness has been given, on the basis of medical records gathered by the diocesan inquiry, and also a medical examination performed in 1942 by two doctors (Jean Dechaume, professor at Lyon Faculty of Medicine and a surgeon, André Ricard). She may have been suffering from lethargic encephalitis, also called von Economo disease, an inflammatory infection of the nervous system.\n\nHer sickness strengthened Marthe's faith. In 1925, she wrote an \"Act of abandon and love to the will of God\". She desired to consecrate herself to Christ and from then onwards loved the Eucharist more and more.\n\nMarthe's spiritual life was also marked by mystical phenomena. The testimonies of friends and family, priests, bishops and lay people who met her are recorded in the diocesan enquiry (1986–1996), and on the basis of this Bernard Peyrou, Postulator of the Cause for Beatification has written a biography of Robin. The authenticity of these testimonies in the eyes of the Catholic Church is currently being examined as part of the Cause of Beatification.\n\nOn 25 March 1922, according to the testimony of her sister Alice, Marthe had a personal vision of the Virgin Mary. Following the testimonies gathered by the 1986 diocesan enquiry, this vision was followed by others. She reported that Christ appeared to her on the night of 4 December 1928. She confided about this vision to Père Faure, her parish priest, then took the decision to give her life entirely to God and to unite herself with his sufferings through prayer and love. From then on, her spiritual life was more and more centered on the Passion of Christ and the Eucharist. She received regular visits from several local priests.\n\nFrom 1930 onwards, Robin ate no food other than the consecrated host. This (unsought) fast lasted until her death fifty-one years later. Her stigmata first appeared in early October 1930. In October–November 1931 she started to relive the Passion of Christ every Friday, and this too lasted until her death in 1981. Many friends, family members and numerous priests witnessed this.\n\nMarthe Robin herself appealed for discretion concerning these phenomena and encouraged Christians not to focus on them. Five successive bishops of the diocese of Valence to which Marthe Robin belonged, as well as being prudent, all said they knew Robin and that she had never come across as somebody to be mistrusted.\n\nOn 3 December 1928, during a parish mission organized at Châteauneuf-de-Galaure, two Franciscan priests, Père Jean and Père Marie-Bernard, visited Robin. Père Marie-Bernard reassured her and talked to her about spiritual vocation. In 1928, she entered the Franciscan Third order.\n\nIn the same year, Père Faure, her parish priest, became her spiritual director, a role that he did not relish because he could not personally relate to mystical experience. In 1936, Marthe Robin met Georges Finet, a priest from Lyon who took over Père Faure's role. Marthe's relationship with Père Finet was close and continued for the rest of her life.\n\nIn early February 1981, Robin had a coughing attack that became more and more acute. On Thursday 5 February, she had a high fever. That evening, like every Thursday, she prayed to be united to Christ in his Passion. Members of the Foyer de Charité said the Rosary around her bed, then left her alone. The following day, at about 5 a.m., when Pere Finet went into her room, he found Robin unconscious on the floor, near her bed. She had died, probably of exhaustion, in the early hours of Friday 6 February. Père Colon, a medical doctor, and Dr Andolfatto, the doctor of Châteauneuf, confirmed her death. No autopsy was carried out. Her funeral took place on 12 February, in the sanctuary at Châteauneuf-de-Galaure, in the presence of four bishops and over 200 priests. Her tomb is in the cemetery of St Bonnet.\n\nAlthough she was bedridden, Marthe Robin met countless people. She participated in the life of her diocese and her village as well as she was able. In October 1934, at her initiative, a girls' school was founded at Châteauneuf-de-Galaure. It developed rapidly. With the help of George Finet, she also founded the first Foyer de Charité. The foyer organized five-day retreats, and 2,000 retreatants participated annually. Most of them, at the end of the retreat, went to visit Marthe. It is estimated that, in fifty years, she individually met more than 100,000 people, including hundreds of priests and many bishops. Some visitors went to her seeking advice about their lives. In general, she did not give specific, categorical advice. Rather, she asked questions, made suggestions, prevented visitors from going off the subject, and let them reach their own conclusions. She was also a prolific letter writer, which she managed by dictating to a secretary.\n\nMarthe Robin received visits from people such as Jean Guitton, Father Garrigou-Lagrange, Marcel Clément, Estelle Satabin, Father Thomas Philippe, Sister Magdeleine (1898-1989), founder of the Petites Sœurs de Jésus, Father Perrin, founder of the secular institute \"Caritas Christi\", Father Henri Caffarel, founder of the Equipes Notre-Dame, sister Marie Dupont-Caillard, founder of the Sœurs et Frères de Bethléem. She also followed and supported, to differing degrees, the setting up of various of the new Catholic communities and associations that were founded in France during the 20th century, for example the Communauté Saint Jean, the Communauté de l'Emmanuel, the Communauté des Béatitudes, the Frères Missionnaires des Campagnes, founded by Father Epagneul, a Dominican, and the Association Claire Amitié, founded by Thérèse Cornille. She also met Father Eberhard, the founder of Notre-Dame de la Sagesse, Sister Norbert-Marie, who inspired the foundation of the Petites Sœurs de Nazareth, and Mère Myriam, who founded the communauté des Petites Sœurs de la Compassion, d'Israël et de Saint-Jean in 1982.\n\nThe number of visitors going to pray at the farmhouse on La Plaine, where Marthe Robin lived, doubled between 2001 and 2011, reaching a year.\n\nIn 1936, Marthe Robin founded the \"Foyers de Charité\" at Châteauneuf-de-Galaure. Lay people participated in the life of this foyer, under the supervision of a priest. This involvement of lay people was unusual in pre-Vatican II Catholicism. Since then, a total of 75 these communities have been founded in 44 countries, either directly by Marthe herself or inspired by her example. In 1984, the Foyers de Charity were officially recognized by the Catholic Church as an Association of lay faithful of pontifical right, under the supervision of the Pontifical Council for laypeople.\n\nThe Foyers de Charité have in turn influenced the founders of various communities within the charismatic renewal, including the Community of St. John, the Emmanuel Community, and the Community of the Beatitudes.\n\nIn 1986, a diocesan inquiry was opened to investigate the possibility of Marthe's beatification. Two religious experts, a theologian and a historian, were entrusted with the case in 1988. The Vatican granted a \"Nihil obstat\" in 1991. Between 1988 and 1996, more than 120 witnesses and experts were consulted. From 1993 to 1995, a critical biography was written for the Congregation for the cause of saints. A file of 17,000 pages was submitted to the Vatican in 1996. \nA decree of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints dated 24 April 1998 agreed that the diocesan inquiry was valid. The \"Positio\", a summary of 2000 pages of the beatification file which lays out the results of the diocesan inquiry was sent on 6 May 2010 for study to a commission of theologians, a meeting of whom was held on 11 December 2012. The \"heroic virtues\" of Marthe Robin were recognized on 7 November 2014 by Pope Francis (Press release of the French Bishops). She is therefore declared venerable and recognition of a miracle could open the door to her beatification.\n\nThe philosopher Jean Guitton claimed that Marthe Robin was offered the possibility of medical analysis at a clinic for several months in order to prove to sceptics that her apparent inability to eat was not some elaborate hoax, but she declined, saying \"Do you really think that will convince people? Those who don't believe it will not believe it any the more because of that.\" Consequently, there is no clinical proof of Marthe Robin's fifty-year fasting. Guitton deplored that \"in this present era, prudence requires us to suppose that such phenomena can only be explained by autosuggestion, hysteria, or mental illness rather than by a noble and transcendent cause.\"\n\nSpecialist opinions concerning Marthe Robin are conflicting. Some scientific sceptics consider that her mystical manifestations, particularly her long fast, were simply an elaborate hoax, even though numerous doctors at the time ruled out this possibility others diagnosed it as hysteria. For example: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85706", "title": "Menrva", "text": "Menrva\n\nMenrva (also spelled Menerva) was an Etruscan goddess of war, art, wisdom, and medicine. She contributed much of her character to Roman Minerva, when that culture evolved. She was the child of Uni and Tinia.\n\nAlthough Menrva was seen by Hellenized Etruscans as their counterpart to Greek Athena, Menrva has some unique traits that make it clear that she was not an import from Greece. Etruscan artists under the influence of Greek culture, however, liked to portray Menrva with Gorgoneion, helmet, spear, and shield, and, on one mirrorback, as bursting from the head of her father, Tinia. Also, she commonly is seen as the protector of Hercle (Heracles) and \"Pherse\" (Perseus). On a bronze mirror found at Praeneste, she attends Perseus, who consults two Graeae, and, on another, holds high the head of Medusa, while she and seated Perseus and Hermes all gaze safely at its reflection in a pool at their feet. These images are more likely to reflect literary sources than any cult practice. On a bronze mirror from Bolsena, ca. 300 BCE, she is portrayed attending a scene of Prometheus Unbound with Esplace (Asclepius), who bandages Prometheus' chest.\n\nOften, Menrva is depicted in a more essentially Etruscan style, as a lightning thrower. Martianus mentions her as one of nine Etruscan lightning deities. Depiction with a thunderbolt may be see on later Roman coins of Minerva as well.\n\nMenrva seems to have been associated with weather phenomena. The Greeks never attributed an association with weather to Athena, making this another important difference between the two religious cults that demonstrates their separate characteristics.\n\nMenrva's name is indigenous to Italy and might even be of Etruscan origin, stemming from an Italic moon goddess, Meneswā 'She who measures'. It is thought that the Etruscans adopted the inherited Old Latin name, Menerwā, thereby calling her Menrva. This has been disputed, however: Carl Becker suggested that her name appears to contain the PIE root \"men-\", which he noted was linked in Greek primarily to memory words (cf. Greek \"mnestis\"/μνῆστις 'memory, remembrance, recollection'), but which more generally referred to 'mind' in most Indo-European languages.\n\nMenrva often was depicted in the Judgement of Paris, called Elcsntre (Alexander, his alternative name in Greek) in Etruscan, one of the most popular Greek myths in Etruria.\n\nMenrva was part of a triple deity with Uni and Tinia, later reflected in the Roman Capitoline Triad of Juno, Jupiter, and Minerva.\n"}
{"id": "13688776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13688776", "title": "Neopaganism in Australia", "text": "Neopaganism in Australia\n\nContemporary Paganism, including Wicca in various forms, Reclaiming (Neopaganism), and witchcraft, is a growing minority religious group in Australia. As in forms on Neopaganism elsewhere, some pagans work as solitary practitioners and others form groups such as covens. Covens may or not be hierarchical, depending on the tradition. Gardnerian and Alexandrian covens tend to be hierarchical, with coven led by a Priest and High Priestess. Reclaiming covens and working groups practise non-hierarchical modes of group dynamics, with group members co-creating rituals and events, although there may be 'facilitators' and other roles allotted at a given gathering. \n\nCeremonial magicians of various traditions are also a growing group within Australian alternative religion, however they generally do not identify as 'pagan'. Nevertheless, there is considerable crossover between the interests of, and membership in, pagan and magical groups.\n\nAlexandrian Wiccans and Gardnerian Wiccans arrived in Australia from England and the United States around the late 1960s.\n\nIn June 2003, Nature Religions, including Druidism, Paganism, Pantheism and Wicca, were described by Phillip Hughes and Sharon Bond as “the fastest growing group of religions in Australia” between 1991 and 2001.\n\nIn the 1991 census by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, 4,353 Australians identified their religion as a Pagan religion including, 1,367 Australians identified their religion as Wicca or Witchcraft.\n\nIn the 1996 census, 10,052 Australians identified their religion as a Pagan religion including 1,849 people who identified their religion as Wicca or Witchcraft.\n\nIn the 2001 census, 24,156 people described themselves as Pagan, including 8,755 people who identified their religion as Wicca or Witchcraft.\n\nThe PAGANdash campaign was started to help government and community get a correct representation of the number of Pagans currently in Australia. Originating from the Pagan Community Projects in Queensland in 2005, the Pagan Awareness Network (PAN) also ran a comprehensive PAGANdash program prior to the 2011 census in Australia. All Pagans were asked to fill in their religion as \"Pagan-(religion)\", for example a Wiccan would write \"Pagan-Wiccan\" as their religion.\n\nIn the 2006 census, 29,391 Australians identified their religion as a Pagan religion including 8,207 people who identified their religion as Wicca or Witchcraft.\n\nIn the 2011 census, 32,083 Australians identified their religion as a Pagan religion including 8,413 people who identified their religion as Wicca or Witchcraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47150008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47150008", "title": "Pranahita Pushkaralu", "text": "Pranahita Pushkaralu\n\nPranahita Pushkaralu is a festival of River Pranahita normally occurs once in 12 years. The Pushkaram is observed for a period of 12 days from the time of entry of Jupiter into Pisces (\"Meena\" rasi).\n\n"}
{"id": "16833236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16833236", "title": "Religion in Palau", "text": "Religion in Palau\n\nRoman Catholicism is the dominant religion in Palau; approximately 65% of the population are members. Estimates of other religious groups with a sizable membership include the various denominations of Evangelicalism, 2,000; Seventh-day Adventists, 1,000; The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), 300; and Jehovah's Witnesses, 90. Modekngei, which embraces both animist and Christian beliefs and is unique to the country, has approximately 1,800 adherents. There also is a primarily Filipino Catholic expatriate community of 6,800 persons. \n\nAdditionally, about 0.8% of the population was estimated to be Buddhist in 2010 and 0.2% was reported to be practicing elements of Chinese folk religion alongside as well. 0.7% of the population in 2010 was estimated to be practicing the Bahá'í Faith and 0.1% practiced Hinduism. 2.4% identified as agnostic while a non-negligible amount, under 0.1% of the population identified as atheist.\n\nSince the arrival of Jesuit priests in the early 19th century, foreign missionaries have been active; some have been in the country for many years. During the Japanese mandate, Japanese Christian missions were heavily subsidized; Japan's native Buddhists were given a comparative pittance. Japanese rule brought Mahayana Buddhism and Shinto to Palau, with the syncretism of the two being the majority religion among Japanese settlers. However, following Japan's World War II defeat, the remaining Japanese largely converted to Christianity, while the remainder continued to observe Buddhism, but stopped practicing Shinto rites. The Seventh-day Adventist and Evangelical churches have missionaries teaching in their respective elementary and high schools. There are also approximately 400 Bengali Muslims in Palau, and recently a few Uyghurs detained in Guantanamo Bay were allowed to settle in the island nation. There are two mosques in Palau, one of which is located in Koror. The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right in practice. The US government found no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious belief or practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "46246099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46246099", "title": "Religious Education Association", "text": "Religious Education Association\n\nThe Religious Education Association is the world’s oldest and largest association of scholars and researchers in the field of religious education. It is a nonprofit member association, serving as a professional and learned society for scholars and researchers involved in the field of religious education. It has several hundred members, most of whom are from North America, with a scattering of members worldwide. REA members are university and college professors, independent scholars, secondary teachers, clergy, church educators, curriculum developers, judicatory executives, seminarians, graduate students, and interested lay-people. REA members come from multiple faith traditions, and no tradition, and study a very diverse array of religious traditions. The REA's leaders (presidents and executive secretaries) are drawn from a distinguished list of educators.\n\nThe REA was founded in 1903 by William Rainey Harper, the first president of the University of Chicago, with the support of the Council of Seventy, a learned society of biblical scholars. The keynote speaker at its first convention was John Dewey. In its early years the Association was organized into several groups: Council of religious education, Universities and colleges, Theological seminaries, Churches and pastors, Sunday schools, Secondary public schools, Elementary public schools, Private schools, Teacher-training, Christian associations, Young people’s societies, the Home, Libraries, the Press, Correspondence instructions, Summer assemblies, Religious art, and Music. In 1906 the Association began to publish the journal \"Religious Education\" under the editorship of Henry Cope. In 1953 the Association marked its 50th anniversary with a three-day meeting at the University of Pittsburgh that brought together more than 2500 Christian and Jewish educators from the US and Canada. In 1973 the Association began awarding the William Harper Rainey award to distinguished educators. In 1975, the Association held a major national colloquy on civil religion at which scholars Robert Bellah, Vine DeLoria, Jr., and Michael Novak spoke. In 1992 the Association began awarding the Herman E. Wornom award to distinguished institutions. In 2003 the REA merged with the Association of Professors and Researchers in Religious Education (which was formed in 1970 from an earlier section of the National Council of Churches). Yale University holds the archives of the Religious Education Association and its predecessor bodies.\n\nThe REA has published the scholarly journal \"Religious Education\" continuously since 1906 (archives of which are available electronically at Taylor & Francis). This journal has consistently published work by scholars from multiple continents, diverse faith traditions, and various educational settings, and maintains a high level of citation in various ranking systems. In 2014 the REA began publishing a scholarly monograph series entitled \"Horizons in Religious Education\" jointly with Wipf & Stock. The REA also publishes a quarterly newsletter, \"eREACH\", which began as the “religious education association clearing house,” and which serves to network, resource, and connect the association members.\n\nThe REA hosts an annual meeting, usually in early November. Meeting presentations occur in four formats: research interest group (a formal scholarly paper), colloquy (a collaborative session engaging ideas in progress), workshop (a hands on session oriented towards specific skills), and poster (a typical scholarly poster presentation). The association has a long history of commitment to collegiality, innovative learning design, and support for students. In addition, the REA is a “related scholarly organization” to the American Academy of Religion, and hosts one session each year at the AAR annual meeting.\n\n"}
{"id": "977209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977209", "title": "Religious cosmology", "text": "Religious cosmology\n\nA religious cosmology (also mythological cosmology) is a way of explaining the origin, the history and the evolution of the cosmos or universe based on the religious mythology of a specific tradition. Religious cosmologies usually include an act or process of creation by a creator deity or a larger pantheon.\n\nIn Buddhism, like other Indian religions, there is no ultimate beginning nor final end to the universe. It considers all existence as eternal, and believes there is no creator god. Buddhism views the universe as impermanent and always in flux. This cosmology is the foundation of its Samsara theory, that evolved over time the mechanistic details on how the wheel of mundane existence works over the endless cycles of rebirth and redeath. In early Buddhist traditions, \"Saṃsāra\" cosmology consisted of five realms through which wheel of existence recycled. This included hells (\"niraya\"), hungry ghosts (\"pretas\"), animals (\"tiryak\"), humans (\"manushya\"), and gods (\"devas\", heavenly). In latter traditions, this list grew to a list of six realms of rebirth, adding demi-gods (\"asuras\"). The \"hungry ghost, heavenly, hellish realms\" respectively formulate the ritual, literary and moral spheres of many contemporary Buddhist traditions. \n\nAccording to Akira Sadakata, the Buddhist cosmology is far more complex and uses extraordinarily larger numbers than those found in Vedic and post-Vedic Hindu traditions. It also shares many ideas and concepts, such as those about Mount Meru. The Buddhist thought holds that the six cosmological realms are interconnected, and everyone cycles life after life, through these realms, because of a combination of ignorance, desires and purposeful karma, or ethical and unethical actions.\n\nThe Hindu cosmology, like the Buddhist and Jain cosmology, considers all existence as cyclic. With its ancient roots, Hindu texts propose and discuss numerous cosmological theories. Hindu culture accepts this diversity in cosmological ideas and has lacked a single mandatory view point even in its oldest known Vedic scripture, the \"Rigveda\". Alternate theories include a universe cyclically created and destroyed by god, or goddess, or no creator at all, or a golden egg or womb (Hiranyagarbha), or self-created multitude of universes with enormous lengths and time scales. The Vedic literature includes a number of cosmology speculations, one of which questions the origin of the cosmos and is called the Nasadiya sukta:\nTime is conceptualized as a cyclic Yuga with trillions of years. In some models, Mount Meru plays a central role. \n\nBeyond its creation, Hindu cosmology posits divergent theories on the structure of the universe, from being 3 lokas to 12 lokas (worlds) which play a part in its theories about rebirth, samsara and karma.\n\nThe complex cosmological speculations found in Hinduism and other Indian religions, states Bolton, is not unique and are also found in Greek, Roman, Irish and Babylonian mythologies, where each age becomes more sinful and of suffering.\n\nJain cosmology considers the loka, or universe, as an uncreated entity, existing since infinity, having no beginning or an end. describe the shape of the universe as similar to a man standing with legs apart and arm resting on his waist. This Universe, according to Jainism, is narrow at the top, broad at the middle and once again becomes broad at the bottom.\n\n\"Some foolish men declare that a creator made the world. The doctrine that the world was created is ill advised and should be rejected. If God created the world, where was he before the creation? If you say he was transcendent then and needed no support, where is he now? How could God have made this world without any raw material? If you say that he made this first, and then the world, you are faced with an endless regression.\"\n\nThere is a \"primordial universe\" Wuji (philosophy), and Hongjun Laozu, water or qi. It transformed into Taiji and multiplied into everything. The Pangu legend tells a formless chaos coalesced into a cosmic egg. Pangu emerged (or woke up) and separated Yin from Yang with a swing of his giant axe, creating the Earth (murky \"Yin\") and the Sky (clear \"Yang\"). To keep them separated, Pangu stood between them and pushed up the Sky. After Pangu died, he became everything.\n\nAround the time of Jesus or a little earlier, the Greek idea that God had actually created matter replaced the older idea that matter had always existed, but in a chaotic state. This concept, called \"creatio ex nihilo\", is now the accepted orthodoxy of most denominations of Judaism and Christianity. Most denominations of Christianity and Judaism believe that a single, uncreated God was responsible for the creation of the cosmos.\n\nThe universe of the ancient Israelites was made up of a flat disc-shaped earth floating on water, heaven above, underworld below. Humans inhabited earth during life and the underworld after death, and the underworld was morally neutral; only in Hellenistic times (after c.330 BC) did Jews begin to adopt the Greek idea that it would be a place of punishment for misdeeds, and that the righteous would enjoy an afterlife in heaven. In this period too the older three-level cosmology was widely replaced by the Greek concept of a spherical earth suspended in space at the centre of a number of concentric heavens.\n\nIslam teaches that God created the universe, including Earth's physical environment and human beings. The highest goal is to visualize the cosmos as a book of symbols for meditation and contemplation for spiritual upliftment or as a prison from which the human soul must escape to attain true freedom in the spiritual journey to God.\n\nBelow here there are some other citations from the Quran on cosmology.\n\n\"And the heavens We constructed with strength, and indeed, We are [its] expander.\" 51:47 Sahih International\n\n\"Do not the unbelievers see that the heavens and the earth were joined \ntogether (as one unit of creation), before We clove them asunder? We made \nfrom water every living thing. Will they not then believe?\"\n21:30 Yusuf Ali translation\n\n\"The day that We roll up the heavens like a scroll rolled up for books \n(completed),- even as We produced the first creation, so shall We produce a \nnew one: a promise We have undertaken: truly shall We fulfil it.\"\n21:104 Yusuf Ali translation\n\nThe Earth's creation, according to Mormon scripture, was not \"ex nihilo\", but organized from existing matter. The faith teaches that this earth is just one of many inhabited worlds, and that there are many governing heavenly bodies, including a planet or star Kolob which is said to be nearest the throne of God. According to the King Follett discourse, God the Father himself once passed through mortality like Jesus did, but how, when, or where that took place is unclear. The prevailing view among Mormons is that God once lived on a planet.\n\nEsoteric cosmology is cosmology that is an intrinsic part of an esoteric or occult system of thought. Esoteric cosmology maps out the universe with planes of existence and consciousness according to a specific worldview usually from a doctrine.\n\nGnostic teachings were contemporary with those of Neoplatonism. Gnosticism is an imprecise label, covering monistic as well as dualistic conceptions. Usually the higher worlds of Light, called the Pleroma or \"fullness\", are radically distinct from the lower world of Matter. The emanation of the Pleroma and its godheads (called \"Aeons\") is described in detail in the various Gnostic tracts, as is the pre-creation crisis (a cosmic equivalent to the \"fall\" in Christian thought) from which the material world comes about, and the way that the divine spark can attain salvation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54944", "title": "Religious intolerance", "text": "Religious intolerance\n\nReligious intolerance is intolerance against another's religious beliefs or practices or lack thereof.\n\nThe mere statement on the part of a religion that its own beliefs and practices are correct and any contrary beliefs are incorrect does not in itself constitute intolerance (i.e., ideological intolerance).\n\nReligious intolerance, rather, is when a group (e.g., a society, religious group, non-religious group) specifically refuses to tolerate practices, persons or beliefs on religious grounds.\n\nThe modern concept of intolerance developed out of the religious controversies between Protestants and Catholics in 17th- and 18th-century England. The doctrine of 'religious toleration' at this time, sought to eradicate religious sentiments and dogmas from the political demesne.\n\nAccording to the 19th century British historian Arnold Toynbee, for a religious establishment to persecute another religion for being \"wrong\" ironically puts the persecuting religion in the wrong, undermining its own legitimacy.\n\nThe constitutions of some countries contain provisions expressly forbidding the state from engaging in certain acts of religious intolerance or preference within its own borders, examples of such include the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, the Article 4 of the Basic Law of Germany, Article 44.2.1 of the Constitution of The Republic of Ireland, Article 40 of the Estonian Constitution, Article 24 of the Constitution of Turkey, Article 36 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China, and Article 3 Section 5 of the Constitution of the Philippines.\n\nOther states, whilst not containing constitutional provisions directly related to religion, nonetheless contain provisions forbidding discrimination on religious grounds (see, for example, Article 1 of the French Constitution, article 15 of Canada's Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and article 40 of the Constitution of Egypt). These constitutional provisions do not necessarily guarantee that all elements of the state remain free from religious intolerance at all times, and practice can vary widely from country to country.\n\nOther countries, meanwhile, may allow for religious preference, for instance through the establishment of one or more state religions, but not for religious intolerance. Finland, for example, has the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland and Finnish Orthodox Church as its official state religions, yet upholds the right of free expression of religion in article 11 of its constitution.\n\nSome countries retain laws forbidding defamation of religious belief. Some retain laws forbidding all forms of blasphemy (e.g., Germany where, in 2006, Manfred van H. was convicted of blasphemy against Islam). This is seen by some as official endorsement of religious intolerance, amounting to the criminalization of religious views. The connection between intolerance and blasphemy laws is closest when the laws apply to only one religion. In Pakistan blasphemy directed against either the tenets of the Qur'an or the Prophet Mohammed is punishable by either life imprisonment or death. Apostasy, the rejection of one's old religion, is also criminalized in a number of countries, notably Afghanistan with Abdul Rahman being the first to face the death penalty for converting to Christianity.\n\nThe United Nations upholds the right to free expression of religious belief in articles and 18 and 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights while article 2 forbids discrimination on the basis of religion. Article 18 also allows for the freedom to change religion. The Declaration is not legally binding, however the United States chose in 1998 to pass the International Religious Freedom Act, creating the Commission on International Religious Freedom, and mandating that the United States government take action against any country found to violate the religious freedoms outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Human Rights Council in 2011 adopted Resolution 16/18 on \"Combating intolerance, negative stereotyping and stigmatization of, and discrimination, incitement to violence and violence against, persons based on religion or belief\" which was hailed by stakeholders from all regions and faiths as a turning point in international efforts to confront religious intolerance. The European Convention on Human Rights, which is legally binding on all European Union states (following the passage of the Human Rights Act 1998 in the United Kingdom), makes restricting the rights of an individual to practice or change their religion illegal in article 9, and discrimination on the basis of religion illegal in article 14.\n\nIn its 2000 annual report on international religious freedom, the U.S. State Department cited China, Myanmar, Iran, Iraq and Sudan for persecuting people for their religious faith and practices. The report, which covers July 1999 through June 2000, details U.S. policy toward countries where religious freedom is violated in the view of the U.S. State Department.\n\nThe advocacy group Freedom House produced a report entitled \"Religious Freedom in the World\" in 2000 which ranked countries according to their religious freedom. The countries receiving a score of 7, indicating those where religious freedom was least respected, were Turkmenistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Myanmar and North Korea. China was given a score of 6 overall, however Tibet was listed separately in the 7 category. Those countries receiving a score of 1, indicating the highest level of religious freedom, were Estonia, Finland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway and the United States.\n\nWithin those countries that openly advocate religious tolerance there remain debates as to the limits of tolerance. Some individuals and religious groups, for example, retain beliefs or practices which involve acts contrary to established law, such as the use of cannabis by members of the Rastafari movement, the religious use of eagle feathers by non-Native Americans (contrary to the eagle feather law, 50 CFR 22), or the practice of polygamy amongst the LDS Church in the 19th century.\n\nReligious freedom has developed partly due to the agreeable relationship between religious groups in its society. Several non-governmental organizations promoted tolerance and better understanding among religions in the country, both indigenous and non-indigenous. These groups included the Columbian Centre for Christian-Muslim Relations, the National Council of Churches in Australia and its affiliated Aboriginal and Islander Commission, and the Australian Council of Christians and Jews. In Victoria, Australia the Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001 makes illegal \"conduct that incites hatred against, serious contempt for, or revulsion or severe ridicule of, that other person or class of persons\" on the grounds of religious belief. \n\nIn 2003, in response to an increase in anti-Islamic sentiment, the HREOC undertook a project involving national consultations on eliminating prejudice against Arab and Muslim citizens. As part of the consultations, the commission considered whether Muslim citizens shared an ethnic origin or race, as well as a religion, which would entitle them to comprehensive protection under the Federal Race Discrimination Act. The commission's report, made public in June 2004, contained no findings on the racial status of Arab and Muslim citizens. In January 2005 the leader of the neo-Nazi Australian Nationalist Movement was connected to incidents in 2004 in which several Asian-owned businesses and a synagogue in Perth were firebombed or sprayed with racist graffiti. On December 11, 2005, there was a riot in the Sydney suburb of Cronulla, that erupted because a group of Lebanese-Australian youths had assaulted two lifeguards. Demonstrators against the assault displayed anti-Arab and anti-Muslim slogans. When the gathering turned violent, bystanders perceived to be of Middle Eastern origin or Muslim were attacked. The following day, retaliatory vandalism and other assaults were reported around Sydney.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198242", "title": "Resurrection Mary", "text": "Resurrection Mary\n\nResurrection Mary is a well-known Chicago area ghost story of the \"vanishing hitchhiker\" type. The urban legend is based outside of Resurrection Cemetery in Justice, Illinois, a few miles southwest of Chicago. Resurrection Mary is considered to be Chicago's most famous ghost.\n\nSince the 1930s, several men driving northeast along Archer Avenue between the Willowbrook Ballroom and Resurrection Cemetery have reported picking up a young female hitchhiker. This young woman is dressed somewhat formally in a white party dress and is said to have light blond hair and blue eyes. There are other reports that she wears a thin shawl, dancing shoes, carries a small clutch purse, and possibly that she is very quiet. When the driver nears the Resurrection Cemetery, the young woman asks to be let out, whereupon she disappears into the cemetery. According to the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"full-time ghost hunter\" Richard Crowe has collected \"three dozen . . . substantiated\" reports of Mary from the 1930s to the present.\n\nThe story goes that Mary had spent the evening dancing with a boyfriend at the Oh Henry Ballroom. At some point, they got into an argument and Mary stormed out. Even though it was a cold winter’s night, she thought she would rather face a cold walk home than spend another minute with her boyfriend. \n\nShe left the ballroom and started walking up Archer Avenue. She had not gotten very far when she was struck and killed by a hit-and-run driver, who fled the scene leaving Mary to die. Her parents found her and were grief-stricken at the sight of her dead body. They buried her in Resurrection Cemetery, wearing a beautiful white dancing dress and matching dancing shoes. The hit-and-run driver was never found.\n\nJerry Palus, a Chicago southsider, reported that in 1939 he met a person whom he came to believe was Resurrection Mary at the Liberty Grove and Hall at 47th and Mozart (and \"not\" the Oh Henry/Willowbrook Ballroom). They danced and even kissed and she asked him to drive her home along Archer Avenue, exiting the car and disappearing in front of Resurrection Cemetery.\nIn 1973, Resurrection Mary was said to have shown up at Harlow's nightclub, on Cicero Avenue on Chicago's southwest side. That same year, a cab driver came into Chet's Melody Lounge, across the street from Resurrection Cemetery, to inquire about a young lady who had left without paying her fare.\n\nThere were said to be sightings in 1976, 1978, 1980, and 1989, which involved cars striking, or nearly striking, Mary outside Resurrection Cemetery. Mary disappears, however, by the time the motorist exits the car. \n\nShe also reportedly burned her handprints into the wrought iron fence around the cemetery, in August 1976, although officials at the cemetery have stated that a truck had damaged the fence and that there is no evidence of a ghost.\n\nIn a January 31, 1979 article in the \"Suburban Trib\", columnist Bill Geist detailed the story of a cab driver, Ralph, who picked up a young woman – \"a looker. A blond... she was young enough to be my daughter — 21 tops\" – near a small shopping center on Archer Avenue.\n\nGeist described Ralph as \"not an idiot or a maniac\" but rather, in Ralph's own words, \"a typical 52-year-old working guy, a veteran, father, Little League baseball coach, churchgoer, the whole shot\". Geist goes on to say: \"The simple explanation, Ralph, is that you picked up the Chicago area's preeminent ghost: Resurrection Mary.\"\n\nSome researchers have attempted to link Resurrection Mary to one of the many thousands of burials in Resurrection Cemetery. A particular focus of these efforts has been Mary Bregovy, who died in 1934, although her death came in an automobile accident in the downtown Chicago Loop Chicago author Ursula Bielski in 1999 documented a possible connection to Anna \"Marija\" Norkus, who died in a 1927 auto accident while on her way home from the Oh Henry Ballroom, a theory which has gained popularity in recent years.\n\nThe Resurrection Mary story is a type of vanishing hitchhiker story, a type of folklore that is known from many cultures. On his 1996 album \"The Artful Dodger\", singer/songwriter Ian Hunter included the song \"Resurrection Mary\", in which a driver in or near Chicago picks up a beautiful young woman with an \"incandescent glow\" who says to him \"I'm tryin' to get to Heaven/Can you tell me where that is?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55799973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55799973", "title": "Rosh mesivta", "text": "Rosh mesivta\n\nThe title Rosh mesivta (alt. Rosh metivta), abbreviated as Ram, is a term in Jewish education for a leading figure in an educational institution. The term has a long history, going back many centuries.\n\nThe role is comparable to a dean in a university. Just as a chancellor outranks a dean a Rosh yeshiva, when both exist, is higher.\n\n"}
{"id": "9923096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9923096", "title": "Scientology cross", "text": "Scientology cross\n\nThe Scientology cross is one of the principal symbols of Scientology. It is most often used to represent the Church of Scientology.\n\nThe cross closely resembles the Christian cross, but differs from it with the addition of four diagonal rays between the conventional horizontal and vertical arms. The eight points of the cross represent the eight dynamics in Scientology:\n\n\nThe Scientology cross apparently dates back to the mid-1950s. Scientology's founder L. Ron Hubbard wrote in 1955 that \"the model of the cross came from a very ancient Spanish mission in Arizona, a sand casting which [Hubbard] dug up\". He also occasionally referred to it as the \"sunburst cross\". Scholars speculate the Scientology cross may have been inspired by Aleister Crowley's use of the Rosy Cross.\n\nThe practice of prominently displaying the cross in Scientology centers was instituted in 1969 following hostile press coverage in the United Kingdom and elsewhere, when Scientology's status as a legitimate religion was being questioned. In response, Hubbard ordered that, \"Any staff who are trained at any level as auditors (but not in A[dvanced] O[rganization]s) are to be clothed in the traditioned ministerial black suit, black vest white collar silver cross for ordinary org wear.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27431805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27431805", "title": "Shetani", "text": "Shetani\n\nShetani (the word is both singular and plural in English, the plural in Swahili is \"mashetani\") are spirits of East African mythology and popular belief. Mostly malevolent, and found in many different forms and different types with different powers, shetani are a popular subject of carved artwork, especially by the Makonde people of Tanzania, Mozambique, and Kenya. Physically, shetani of various types appear as distorted human and animal figures.\n\nThere is a contemporary East African shetani cult, and reports of sightings of individual shetani are cyclical, with Popo Bawa panics having occurred in 1995 in Zanzibar and 2007 in Dar es Salaam.\n\nThe influential Makonde artist George Lilanga (1934–2005) gained world renown with his shetani sculptures and paintings. Samaki Likankoa, master carver in Tanzania was the foremost originator of the shetani style in the early 1950s. Mohamed Peera, an Indian art curator was a major patron and influence to many makonde carvers such as Samaki, and played a decisive role in the abstract shetani makonde movement from the early 1950s to 1970s.\n\nA Swahili word used in various East African nations to refer to mostly malevolent native pre-Islamic spirits, \"shetani\" (pl. \"mashetani\"), is a borrowing from the Arabic, \"Shaitan\", meaning \"devil\", or, more specifically, \"adversary\". The word is cognate with the English word \"Satan\" which comes ultimately from the same Semitic root.\n\nThere are many types of shetani, with various attributes, and they take on many forms; abstract, animal, anthropomorphic and combinations thereof. Whether one-legged or one-armed, cyclopic or with exaggerated orifices and appendages, the essential nature of the shetani is a distorted, asymmetrical human figure, a common world archetype, A typical carving, done in ebony or African blackwood, might have \"one eye, a toothless, open mouth and a body which was bent over backwards with its head facing the wrong way.\"\n\nThere are various classes of shetani. Examples include the dangerous \"ukunduka\", which feed through sexual intercourse, and the chameleon shetani, a carnivore with exaggerated habits of the lizard, or the harmless medicinal \"shuluwele\" which gathers herbs for sorcerers.\n\nSome spirits, like the \"exceptionally evil\" Popo Bawa ('bat-wing'), associated with \"dirt and violent sodomy\" and the smell of burnt sulphur, are individuals with horrifying living reputations. According to the BBC in 2001, \"Many Zanzibaris are now refusing to sleep in their houses as they believe it only preys on people in the comfort of their own beds. . . . [P]eople believe that it sodomises its victims, most of whom are men.\"\n\nBelief in shetani is a contemporary continuation of pre-Islamic belief. In addition to the Makonde who carry on a tradition of sculpture, other peoples, such as the Segeju of Tanzania, who recognize eight or ten tribes of spirits, with each individual having its own name and personality, carry on belief in shetani possession and exorcism.\n\nAccording to the \"Zanzibar Bradt Travel Guide\", \"There is no real way, say the locals, of protecting yourself from the possibility of being haunted or attacked by a shetani. The best thing is simply to keep out of their way and try to make sure they keep out of yours – for example by hanging a piece of paper, inscribed with special Arabic verses, from the ceiling of the house. Almost every home or shop in Zanzibar has one of these brown, mottled scraps, attached to a roof beam by a piece of cotton.\"\n\nThe depiction of shetani continues in the flourishing Makonde sculpture trade, varying from \"airport art\" knockoffs to fine art found in such venues as the Hamburg Mawingu Collection.\n\nGeorge Lilanga (1934–2005) was a Tanzanian sculptor and artist of the Makonde tribe who lived in Dar es Salaam. His work was exhibited in international expositions of African contemporaries including Africa Remix in Düsseldorf, Paris, London and Tokyo.\n\nIn the 1970s, Lilanga participated in a collective exhibition of African artists in Washington D.C. Of the 280 works presented, about 100 were by Lilanga. It was on this occasion that he was compared with Jean Dubuffet. Lilanga was considered to have had an influence on the young American graffiti artists; Keith Haring said in an interview that he had been influenced by Lilanga's art. Lilanga began a long series of exhibitions. His works had increasing success in Africa, Europe, the US, India and Japan. In the 1980s, he dedicated himself almost exclusively to painting. His shetani were represented two-dimensionally on Masonite and, later, on Faesite.\n\nThe Hamburg Mawingu Collection posthumously published a systematically and thematically complete collection of Lilanga's work, and his work forms the backbone of their collection.\n\nIn Alan Dean Foster's 1986 horror/fantasy novel, \"Into the Out Of\", elders of the Maasai people become aware that from the south of them in the Ruaha wilderness of Tanzania a global crisis is approaching. Malevolent shetani, which originate from a dimensional portal known to the Maasai as the “Out Of” (because all things, such as humans, animals and plants, originally came \"out of\" it), are finding their way into this world. In addition to general sabotage, the shetani are fomenting trouble between the superpowers, intent on inciting war. If not prevented, the barriers between the two dimensions will be permanently breached and uncountable hordes of shetani will overrun the world, enslaving the few humans they do not exterminate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39949473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39949473", "title": "Sons of the New Testament", "text": "Sons of the New Testament\n\nThe Sons of the New Testament (, \"Bnei Brit HaHadasha\") is a political party in Israel.\n\nThe party was established in 2013 with the aim of representing the interests of Arabic-speaking Christians in Israel. The party encourages full integration of Arabophone Christians into Israeli society, the two-state solution, and enlistment of Arabophone Christians into the Israel Defense Forces. It was founded by Bishara Shilyan, a 58-year-old sea captain from Nazareth. One of the reasons for founding the party is the belief that the existing Arab parties predominantly serve Muslim interests. Israel's Arabophone Christians are predominantly Melkite Greek and Roman Catholic and represent a minority within the broader Arab population of the country.\n\nThe party's founder, Shilyan, has also said he wants to build a tall statue of Jesus (modelled on Rio de Janeiro's Christ the Redeemer statue) on top of a mountain in Nazareth. He said the purpose of the statue would be to prevent Nazareth's Christian heritage from being eroded. The town's Christian population has been steadily decreasing relative to its Muslim population.\n\n"}
{"id": "16893264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16893264", "title": "Svayam Bhagavan", "text": "Svayam Bhagavan\n\nSvayam Bhagavān (\"The Lord Himself\") is a Sanskrit theological term for the concept of absolute representation of God as \"Bhagavan\" - The Supreme Personality who possesses all riches, all strength, all fame, all beauty, all knowledge and all renunciation.\n\nAccording to the \"Bhagavad Gita\", Lord Krishna is termed \"Svayam Bhagavan\" which means \"God Himself\". As stated in \"Bhagavata Purana\", Hindu Vedic Supreme God Para Brahman appeared before Vasudeva and Devaki in his divine original form before taking birth as Krishna. Vasudeva and Devaki after praising Vishnu, requested him to hide his divine form, which Vishnu agreed to do, transforming himself into a small baby Krishna. According to this account, Krishna never took birth from the womb of His mother like a common baby.\n\nSvayam Bhagavan It is most often used in \"Gaudiya Vaishnava\" \"Krishna\"-centered theology referencing \"Krishna\" and that title is used there exclusively to designate Him, there being conflicting semantics or other usages in the \"Bhagavata Purana\". Traditions of \"Gaudiya Vaishnavas\", the \"Nimbarka Sampradaya\" and followers of \"Vallabha\" consider Him to be the source of all Avatars, and the source of Vishnu and Narayana. As such, He is therefore regarded as \"Svayam Bhagavan\".\n\nThough Krishna is recognized as \"Svayam Bhagavan\" by many, He is also perceived and understood from an eclectic assortment of perspectives and viewpoints. When Krishna is recognized to be \"Svayam Bhagavan\", it can be understood that this is the belief of \"Gaudiya Vaishnavism\", the \"Vallabha Sampradaya\", and the \"Nimbarka Sampradaya\", where \"Krishna\" is accepted to be the source of all other Avatars, and the source of \"Vishnu\" himself. This belief is drawn primarily from the \"famous statement\" of the Bhagavatam (1.3.28).\n\nA different viewpoint differing from this theological concept is the concept of \"Krishna\" as an \"avatar\" of \"Narayana\" or \"Vishnu\". It should be however noted that although it is usual to speak of \"Vishnu\" as the source of the Avataras, this is only one of the names of the God of Vaishnavism, who is also known as Narayana, Vasudeva (and) Krishna and behind each of those names there is a divine figure with attributed Supremacy in Vaishnavism.\n\nThe theological interpretation of \"\" differs with each tradition and the literal translation of the term has been understood in several distinct ways. Translated from the Sanskrit language, the term literally means \"Bhagavan Himself\" or \"directly Bhagavan\". Gaudiya Vaishnava tradition often translates it within its perspective as \"primeval Lord\" or \"original Personality of Godhead\", but also considers the terms such as \"Supreme Personality of Godhead\" and \"Supreme God\" as an equivalent to the term \"Svayam Bhagavan\", and may also choose to apply these terms to Vishnu, Narayana and many of their associated avatars.\n\nEarly commentators of Bhagavata Purana such as Madhvacharya translated the term \"Svayam Bhagavan\" as \"he who has \"bhagavata\"\"; meaning \"he who has the quality of possessing all good qualities\". Others have translated it simply as \"the Lord Himself\". Followers of Vishnu-centered sampradayas of Vaishnavism rarely address this term, but believe that it refers to their belief that Krishna is among the highest and fullest of all \"Avatars\" and is considered to be the \"paripurna avatara\", complete in all respects and the same as the original. According to them Krishna is described in the Bhagavata Purana as the \"purnavatara\" (complete manifestation) of Bhagavan, while other incarnations are called partial. \"Krishna being Bhagavan; the mind of man 'centred intensely', whatever the motive and however ignorant it might be, is centred in Him.\"(p. 334) Generally there is a universal acceptance of the uniqueness of Krishna incarnation throughout Hinduism, as well as the principles involved in His life and personality for which He has been described as \"Svayam Bhagavan\".\n\nThere is an element of countenance in many Krishna centered traditions to the subordination of Krishna to Vishnu. The reasons for that are given that it was the easiest way to accommodate Krishna's human story within the composite Vaishnava theological perspective. These \"core texts assert and defend the ultimacy of Krishna's identity\". However inclusion of Krishna in the list of avataras does not necessarily subordinate him to Vishnu as one of the latter's expansions. Early authors, such as 12th century Jayadeva considered dasavatara to be principal incarnations of Krishna, rather than Vishnu.\n\nThe prime supporters of the Krishna-centered theology, Gaudiya Vaishnavas and followers of the Vallabha Sampradaya and Nimbarka Sampradaya, use the Gopala Tapani Upanishad, Vedanta Sutras and other Hindu scriptures such as the Bhagavata Purana as in verse 1.3.28 and the Brahma Vaivarta Purana, among others, to support their view that Krishna is indeed the \"Svayam Bhagavan\". This belief was summarized by the 16th century author Jiva Goswami in some of his works, such as \"Krishna-sandarbha\". While Krishna himself is mentioned in one of the earliest texts of Vedic literature - the Rig-Veda.\n\nIn the sixth book of the Hindu epic Mahābhārata, the \"Bhishma Parva\" (where the \"Bhagavad Gita\" is part of), Krishna offers numerous quotations that reaffirm the belief that he himself is the \"Svayam Bhagavan\". Verse 7.7 of the Bhagavad Gita, is often used to support the opinion that Krishna himself is the \"Svayam Bhagavan\", and that no impersonal form of Brahman supersedes his existence, as it is a common view that Bhagavad Gita was propounding Krishna-theism before first major proponents of monism.\n\nOther pervading understandings of the position of \"Svayam Bhagavan\" asserted in the Gita are connected to, non-Krishna-centered, traditions. One tradition follows predominately the views of Sankaracharya commentary on Brahma Sutras and is referred as \"maya-vad\" which justifies \"Svayam Bhagavan\" supremacy by a concept of power, wisdom or illusionary maya.\n\nThe second alternative understanding of the evident supremacy of \"Svayam Bhagavan\" in the Gita, is a popular view on Krishna being the highest and fullest Avatar of the Lord, Vishnu or Narayana. \"The Bhagavad Gita depicts Krishna not only as Brahman but also as an 'Avatar of Vishnu' and the friend of Arjuna.\" In summary in accordance with this view \"Svayam Bhagavan Krishna\" is considered to be the \"purna-avatara\" (full incarnation) of Vishnu or, according to some, the universal Narayana who transcends even Brahman.\nSupremacy or a concept of \"originality\" is often referred to in the words of Krishna himself, as for example, the theologian Abhinavagupta, in another tradition of Hinduism, introduces a quotation from the Bhagavad-gita of 'I', Krishna referencing Himself as the highest Self who transcends the perishable and imperishable.\n\nThe Sri Vaishnavas identify Vishnu with the Brahman, while Krishna-centered traditions will associate Para Brahman with Krishna as Svayam Bhagavan. According to Ramanujacharya, Brahman is personal. Indeed, he is the \"supreme\" person, creator and Lord, who leads souls to salvation. Far from having no (positive) attributes, as some Advaita Vedanta followers maintain, Brahman is the \"sum\" of all “noble attributes” — i.e. omniscient, omnipotent, omnipresent, and all-merciful, all qualities attributed to Vishnu by all Vaishavas. According to South Indian traditions he is also \"advitya\" (Sanskrit meaning without rival). To Vaishnavas, Shiva, Brahma, and the other gods of the Hindu pantheon are viewed as Brahman's agents or servants, created and commissioned by him. Some Vaishnavas consider them to be or see that they have the same status that of angels have in the western religious traditions.\n\n“The entire complex of intelligent and non-intelligent beings - is viewed as real and constitutes the form, i. e., the body of the highest Brahman”. A soul-body relationship, according to Ramanujacharya, is “entirely subordinate” to its soul, having no independent reality or value. However Ramanujacharya himself did not stress a subordination of the 'puravatara' Krishna to Vishnu.\n\nHowever, Vaishnava traditions do not adhere to the concept of \"Svayam Bhagavan\" with the same views as those who support the concept.\nTo support their view they quote the 149th chapter of \"Anushāsanaparva\" in the epic Mahabharata, Bhishma which states, with Krishna present, that mankind will be free from all sorrows by chanting the \"Vishnu sahasranama\", which are the thousand names of the all-pervading supreme being Vishnu, who is the master of all the worlds, supreme over the \"devas\" and who is one with Brahman. This seems to indicate that Krishna is identical with Vishnu. Indeed, Krishna himself said, \"Arjuna, one may be desirous of praising by reciting the thousand names. But, on my part, I feel praised by one shloka. There is no doubt about it.” \n\nMany Vaishnava schools have different interpretation of the concept as for example followers of the Swaminarayan Sampraday believe that Lord Narayana manifested himself as Swaminarayan. This view is only supported within their particular tradition.\n\nSome early schools of thought, such as Pancaratra in particular, refer to Vasudeva-Krishna (Krishna, the son of Vasudeva) as the source of all incarnations and as no different from the ultimate and absolute reality, and as non-distinct from Vasudeva and any other manifestations of the supreme self.\n\nThe term Krishnaism has been used to describe the cults of Krishna, reserving the term \"Vaishnavism\" for cults focusing on Vishnu in which Krishna is an Avatar, rather than a transcended being.\n\n\"Greater Krishnaism\" corresponds to the second and dominant phase of Vaishnavism, revolving around the cults of Vasudeva, Krishna, and Gopala. Today the faith has a significant following outside of India as well. Supremacy of Krishna is the key concept of Krishnaism. Gaudiya is one of the main traditions worshiping Radha Krishna that developed this concept.\n\nPrimary theology of Caitanyaite or Gaudiya traditions is based and presented in Bhagavata Purana and Caitanya Caritamrita.\"Svayam\" in \"Svayam rupa\" does not imply one and only, and all conceptions by previous Vaishnava traditions, according to the Gaudiya Vaishnavas beliefs, fall under a second category, \"tad ekatma rupa\" (meaning: one that \"one\" and \"not different\"). 'Svayam' as a term means \"not depending on others\" or \"being himself\".\nRūpa Gosvāmī has described the ' in his ': \"The form of the Supreme Personality of Godhead that does not depend on other forms is called ', the original form.\"\n\nThe \"tad-ekātma-rūpa\" forms are also described in the \n\"The\" tad-ekātma-rūpa \"forms simultaneous to \"\" form and are non-different. At the same time by their bodily features and specific activities they appear to be different.\"\n\nTwo best known Vedic descriptions of the creation are purusha sukta and nasadiya sukta. One hymn addresses to Vishvakarma, The one who makes all. To beliefs of Vaishnavas, the \"Visvakarma Sukta\" of Rig Veda (10.82) refers to indirectly as the Supreme God: The waters verily first retained the embryo in which all the gods were aggregated, single deposited on the navel of the unborn (ajah), in which all beings abide. and according to the Gaudiyas, falls under category of \"tad-ekātma-rūpa\",\n\nAccording to the Gaudiya Vaishnava interpretation, it is also confirmed in the Bhagavad-gītā (7.7), which says, \"\": \"There is no truth superior to Me.\" Where Krishna is 'bhagavan' himself, whose partial manifestations are the other gods. This idea is reflected in the Bhagavata Purana. The Brahma Vaivarta Purana tells us Krishna is the ultimate source from which Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva and Prakriti originate. He is \"Svayam Bhagavan\" while other incarnation are his partial manifestations. The comments of Sridhara Svami (an early Sankara sect commentator), bring out uniqueness of Krishna. According to him Krishna is perfect as all potencies are observed to be full in him. In \"Atharvavedasamhita\", Krishna is described as having slain the giant Kesi, Keshava. The \"Kaustiki Brahmana\" (30.9) alludes to Krishna Angirasa, who is an object of evening ceremony in connection with Brahmanaacchamsin priest. The Aitareya Aranyaka speaks of two Krishnas of Harita Gotra. However the south Indian Vaishnavism makes very little stress on Krishna and altogether ignored Radha in contrast with the other traditions.\n\nTo the views of the Gaudiya Sampradaya, the Bhagavad-gita states that this \"bhakti-yoga\" is secretive: - \"Just hear from Me again about the most confidential part of the instructions in Bhagavad-gītā.\" It is also described as such in Bhagavata Purana Vashnavas of ISKCON often stress their view that in both cases Krishna is speaking about himself, \"aham\" and \"me\" in Sanskrit mean, \"I am\" and \"Me\" respectively. While some commentators derive secondary meanings, all major Sanskrit dictionary accept that the direct meaning of \"aham\" and \"me\", refers to Krishna himself.\n\nWhen Gaudiya Vaishnavas present their views on Krishna being \"Svayam Bhagavan\",\n\nWhen Chaitanya traveled through South India in 1509-10, he stayed at the house of Venkata Bhatta, the father of Gopala Bhatta, priest of Srirangam. Venkata and his two brothers, Gopala's uncles Trimalla and Prabodhananda Sarasvati \"were converted from their Sri Vaishnava faith in Lakshmi-Narayana as supreme to one in Radha Krishna\" as Svayam Bhagavan. The dialog of this conversion is recorded in 16 c. Caitanya Caritamrita biography by Krishna dasa Kaviraja.\n\nIn the Madhya lila of the Chaitanya charitamrita a presentation is given, with a reference to the particular verse of the tenth canto of Bhagavata Purana as to the reason why Lakshmi also known as Sri (thus the name of Sri Sampradaya) is burning with desire and still not capable of entering to the realm of Vrindavana.\n\nPrabodhananda Sarasvati who was a Sri Sampradaya sannyasi was converted as to supreme position of Radha-Krishna being Svayam Bhagavan instead of Lakshmi-Narayana. He as well apparently came to appreciate the supremacy of Radha worship from Caitanya.\n\nThe view of South Indian Vaishnava groups on \"sarga\", or subtle creation, is based upon scriptural adherence to Narayana or Vishnu being the cause of creation expanding into Viraja and then glancing over \"pradhana\", and that is the start of actual function of creation. This view is not contradicted by Krishna-centered Vashnavism and does not appear to be in contradiction with \"Svayam Bhagavan\" who as Vasudeva (son of Vasudeva, Krishna) is according to Pancaratra is at the source of creation.\n\nPancaratra sources are accepted by all of Vaishnava traditions, and confirmed by Yamunacarya who preceding in the line of Ramanuja, summarizing in his \"Agamapramanya\", a defense of the revelation of the \"tantric\" Vaishnava Pancaratra, defending whole body of the texts being part of the Veda: \"The Pancadratra Tantra is authoritative like the Vedic sentences ordaining sacrifice on the grounds that it is based on knowledge free from all defects\". Amalananda, also defends Pancaratra and while confirming that Agamas do not have the same self-authenticating validity, as the four Vedas, but the authenticity of it assured because Veda bear witness to the omniscience of Vasudeva. This position also forms the basis of Bhagavata Purana based theology.\n\nIt is also a view of Gaudiya Vaishnavas that Sanatana Goswamis \"Brihad Bhagavatamrita\", has illustrated this principle, not just in terms of comparative cosmology or \"avatara\" hierarchy as in Vaishnava Pancaratra, but also in terms of cosmology of \"adi-rasa\". The cosmological principle of the four dhamas (with a separate place for the last two: \"Vaikuntha\" - abode of Vishnu or Narayana, \"tad-ekatma rupa\", in transcendence, and \"Goloka\" as abode of \"Svayam Bhagavan\" in transcendence) is the key of the graphical presentation, but it is also an answer to the dilemma. In accordance with the cosmology of the \"Brihad Bhagavatamrita\" Krishna is believed being the original and most complete in all \"rasas\" or tastes is in fact not engaged and non engaging, is his independence, he does not even, at least in this his original form, carry symbols of , he only carries his own flute, and that is the pleasure of his devotees.\n\nThe form of Narayana is linked with the concept of sacrifice in the earliest known references to him. In Vedic sources such as the Purusha sukta, Narayana is given as the name of the self-offering of the great cosmic sacrifice of the Rig Veda. Narayana is not mentioned in Rig Veda itself, but came to be regarded as the seer who authored the hymn. It is possible that the sage who composed the Purusha Sukta hymn has been assimilated to the Purusha whose praise he had sung, and he himself became the object of worship. Mentions of a divine sage named Narayana, along with counterpart Nara, appears in many Puranic texts. \"Purusha\" is also identified with Vishnu in the Rig Veda and interpreted accordingly by many traditions of Vaishnavism. In the Bhagavata he is recognized as \"the Lord whose being is sacrifice, Yajna Purusha\" Some believe that thus this verse of the Rig Veda is a foundation of Vaishnava tradition. In the Gopala Tapani Upanishad the Rig Veda verse(1.22.20) was addressed paraphrasing the original of the Vedic hymn in accordance with the beliefs of the Gaudiya Vaishnava: It outlines a specific view held by the Gaudiya Vaishnava and Vallabha Sampradaya, that the conclusion of Vishnu worship is meditation on \"gopa-rupah\" or specific form of Krishna.\n\nThe \"Krishna Upanishad\" supports this conclusion of Gopala Tapani, and refers to the original \"the most divine form of bliss dwells in the supremacy of love of Lord Krishna\", \"saksad\", Hari as \"gopa-rüpa\". (1.10-12):\n\nGaudiya Vaishnava believe that Krishna possesses qualities that are absent in other forms and they relate to his sweetness in Vrindavana lila. Krishna is himself Narayana. Narayana is often identified with supreme, however, when his beauty and \"sweetness\" (madhurya) overshadow his majesty, he is known as \"Krishna\", i.e. \"Svayam Bhagavan\". As Friedhelm Hardy says, the concept of Bhagavan, \"a single, all-powerful, eternal, personal and loving God ... is an empty slot, to be filled by concrete characteristics\" and these characteristics culminate in Krishna.\n\nIn Gaudiya Vaishnava, Vallabha Sampradaya Nimbarka sampradaya and old Bhagavata school, Krishna believed to be fully represented in his original form in the Bhagavata Purana, that at the end of the list of \"avataras\" concludes with the following text:\nNot all commentators on the Bhagavata Purana stress this verse, however a majority of Krishna-centered and contemporary commentaries highlight this verse as a significant statement.Jiva Goswami has called it \"Paribhasa-sutra\", the “thesis statement” upon which the entire book or even theology is based.\n\nIn another place of the Bhagavata Purana 10.83.5-43 those who are named as wives of Krishna all explain to Draupadi how the 'Lord himself' (\"Svayam Bhagavan\", Bhagavata Purana 10.83.7) came to marry them. As they relate these episodes, several of the wives speak of themselves as Krishna's devotees.\n\nMany Krishna-centered traditions believe that \"Svayam Bhagavan\" personally carries his unalloyed devotees (\"vahamy aham\") like a husband carries his bride across the threshold into the house of \"prema bhakti\". Badarayana Vyasa says in his Brahma Sutras, \"visesam ca darsayati\", implying that the scripture declares a difference with regard to the passing from the world of \"nirapeksa\" or unflinching devotees.\n\nBaladeva Vidyabhusana, in his commentary on Gopala Tapani Upanishad states: Glory to the \"Gopala Tapani Upanishad\", which to the pious reveals Lord Krishna, the original Personality of Godhead, the Supersoul near to all moving and unmoving creatures.\n\nThe word used is \"krsna svayam isvaram\", the paraphrase of the Bhagavata Purana verse 1.3.28 that Jiva Goswami has called a key \"sutra\", not only to the Bhagavata Purana but to Vedanta and thus all the Vedas.\n\nAccording to the Upanishads it is believed that when Brahma, who is said to be the original created being, was approached by the sages, the Four Kumaras, he was presented with critical questions: – Who is the Supreme Lord? Who does death fear? – By knowing whom, does everything become realized? – Who is that person, who is behind the repetition of the creation of this Universe? His own original or sweet form, \"\" is not manifested very often in the Universe, \"loka-locanam\". Gaudiya Vaishnavas quote sources that claim that it happens only once in a universal day of Brahma, and its only at that time its believed, once every fourteen manvantaras, each seventy one divya-yugas duration. To answer the four Kumaras, Brahma needed to relate this secret word of the \"seed\" mantra.\nAnd this is believed to be the answer to the question, who is supreme god and how he creates this world.\nBrahma replied to the sages: \"Krisna is the Supreme Personality of Godhead. Death fears Govinda. By knowing Gopijanavallabha everything becomes realized. By pronouncing the word \"svaha\" the Personality of Godhead created the world. In the wider context of the Bhagavata's total perspective, Krishna is \"not one among many but the Lord himself\".\n\n\"Sanat-Kumara Samhita\" confirms the belief that this \"Kama Gayatri\" is the foundational structure of the Goloka, believed to be the abode of Krishna, who is the original Vaasudeva:\n\"In the whorl of the lotus flower which is Lord Krishna's transcendental abode, the Gopala mantra is written.\"\n\nWhile some place Krishna-centered worship as \"Svayam Bhagavan\" in the medieval times of Indian history, there is some evidence suggesting the opposite. In antiquity Krishna images were worshiped at many places. Quoting Curtius, Dr. D.C. Sircar says that an image of Herakles (i.e. Vasudeva-Krishna according to Sircar) was being carried in front of the Paurava army, as it advanced against the Greeks led by Alexander the Great (\"The Cultural Heritage of India\", vol. 4. p. 115) An interesting terracotta plaque showing Vasudeva carrying the infant Krishna over his head across the flooded Yamuna river, belonging to c. first century is housed in the Mathura Museum. A Mora stone inscription of about the same time refers to some images of Bhagavata Vrshni Panchaviras, Sankarshana, Vasudeva, Pradyumna, Samba and Aniruddha - which were very beautifully carved in stone. A Gupta period research makes a \"clear mention of Vasudeva as the exclusive object of worship of a group of people,\" who are referred as bhagavatas.\n\nVerifying the antiquity of the exclusive worship of \"Svayam Bhagavan\", Krishna, the early Jaina texts repeatedly stress two categories of Baladevas and Vasudevas that clearly can not be attributed to the Buddhist tradition, and can not be traced to the earlier strata of the Jaina canon itself. The introduction of these novel categories in the Jaina tradition, therefore, can hardly be explained without references to the legends surrounding the two popular figures of the early Vaishnava tradition, namely Balarama and Krishna of Mathura.\n\nArchaeological remains found in the region of Mathura support the fact that the popularity of these two divine figures had reached its zenith in the Mauryan and the Shunga period and associated Bhagavata religion had become widespread throughout Mathura and Western India areas. This period coincides with the large migrations of Jainas from Magadha to Mathura. Baladeva is referred to by Jaina Puranas as Halabhrit, without any support from Brahminical texts. All the Vasudevas are modeled after the description of Krishna found in the Puranas. They are called blue-black (nila) in complexion and are designated by several names that are normally applied exclusively to Krishna e.g. Keshava, Madhava, Govinda, Vishnu and Narayana (which is used as synonym for the name Vasudeva). List of opposites (or \"prati\" categories) include most of the names associated with Asuras in Puranas.\nAccording to an opinion of some scholars in Patanjali's time identification of Krishna with Vasudeva is an established fact as is surmised from a passage of the Mahabhasya - (\"jaghana kamsam kila vasudevah\"). This \"supposed earliest phase is thought to have been established from the sixth to the fifth centuries BCE at the time of Panini, who in his Astadhyayi explained the word \"vasudevaka\" as a bhakta, devotee, of Vasudeva and its believed that Bhagavata religion with the worship of Vasudeva Krishna were at the root of the Vaishnavism in Indian history.\"\nNot just Indian Gupta period but also some historical records of the Greeks show existence of the bhakti tradition to Krishna-Vaasudeva, it needs to be noted that, even Panini gives some support to the ancient root of Krishna-Vaasudeva bhakti - (\"\", or related to Arjuna), it is however only much later (2nd century BC) Patanjali who refer in his definition of the \"devotee\" or \"bhakta\" as \"the follower of Vasudeva, God of gods.\"\n\nIn the Bhagavata purana the term is used for other forms of God, including Dhanvantari, Vamana, Vishnu, Vaikunthadeva. Although the term appears in the text referring to other forms, these references do not form a part of the Krishna-centered theology on which the reference to Krishna is based.\n\nThe Brahma Vaivarta Purana and Garga Samhita often refer to Krishna as , the term used in Gaudiya Vaishnava tradition by Bhaktivinoda Thakura in his \"Amnaya Sutra\" - \"krishnas tu paripurnatma sarvatra sukha-rupakah\" translated as 'original Supreme Personality of Godhead'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27759992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27759992", "title": "Tertiary Students Christian Fellowship (PNG)", "text": "Tertiary Students Christian Fellowship (PNG)\n\nTertiary Students Christian Fellowship (Papua New Guinea) is an evangelical student movement across university campuses in Papua New Guinea. It is a member of the International Fellowship of Evangelical Students (IFES). According to IFES, the Papua New Guinean student movement involves 10,000 students in 66 chapters plus an additional 6 graduate networks. Tertiary Students Christian Fellowship (PNG) is involved in evangelism as well as raising awareness of social issues in Papua New Guinea such as HIV/AIDs.\n\n"}
{"id": "19292250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19292250", "title": "The Most Holy Name of the Blessed Virgin Mary", "text": "The Most Holy Name of the Blessed Virgin Mary\n\nThe Feast of the Most Holy Name of the Blessed Virgin Mary is an optional memorial celebrated in the liturgical calendar of the Catholic Church on 12 September. It has been a universal Roman Rite feast since 1684, when Pope Innocent XI included it in the General Roman Calendar to commemorate the victory at the Battle of Vienna in 1683. It was removed from the Church calendar in the liturgical reform following Vatican II but restored by Pope Saint John Paul II in 2002, along with the Feast of the Holy Name of Jesus.\n\nIn Hebrew, the name Mary is \"Miryam\". In Aramaic the language spoken in her own time, the form of the name was \"Mariam\". Based on the root \"merur\", the name signifies \"bitterness\". This is reflected in the words of Naomi, who, after losing a husband and two sons lamented, \" “Do not call me Naomi (‘Sweet’). Call me Mara (‘Bitter’), for the Almighty has made my life very bitter.\" \n\nMeanings ascribed to Mary's name by the early Christian writers and perpetuated by the Greek Fathers include: \"Bitter Sea,\" \"Myrrh of the Sea\", \"The Enlightened One,\" \"The Light Giver,\" and especially \"Star of the Sea.\" Stella Maris was by far the favored interpretation. Jerome suggested the name meant \"Lady\", based on the Aramaic \"mar\" meaning \"Lord\". In the book, \"The Wondrous Childhood of the Most Holy Mother of God\", St. John Eudes offers meditations on seventeen interpretations of the name \"Mary,\" taken from the writings of \"the Holy Fathers and by some celebrated Doctors\". The name of Mary is venerated because it belongs to the Mother of God.\n\nMary’s name occurs in the first part and in the second part of the Hail Mary.\n\nAt Rome, one of the twin churches at the Forum of Trajan is dedicated to the Name of Mary (Santissimo Nome di Maria al Foro Traiano).\n\nPromoters of veneration of the Holy Name of Mary include: Saint Anthony of Padua, Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, and Saint Alphonsus Maria de Liguori. A number of religious orders such as the Cistercians, customarily give each member \"Mary\" as part of his/her name in religion as a sign honor and of entrustment to her.\n\nThe feast is a counterpart to the Feast of the Holy Name of Jesus (January 3). Its object is to commemorate all the privileges bestowed upon Mary by God and all the graces received through her intercession and mediation.\n\nThe entry in the Roman Martyrology about the feast speaks of it in the following terms:\n\nThe feast day began in 1513 as a local celebration in Cuenca, Spain, celebrated on 15 September. In 1587 Pope Sixtus V moved the celebration to 17 September. Pope Gregory XV extended the celebration to the Archdiocese of Toledo in 1622. In 1666 the Discalced Carmelites received permission to recite the Divine Office of the Name of Mary four times a year. In 1671 the feast was extended to the whole Kingdom of Spain. From there, the feast spread to all of Spain and to the Kingdom of Naples.\n\nIn 1683, the Polish king, John Sobieski, arrived at Vienna with his army. Before the Battle of Vienna, Sobieski placed his troops under the protection of the Blessed Virgin Mary. In the following year, to celebrate the victory, Pope Innocent XI added the feast to the General Roman Calendar, assigning to it the Sunday within the octave of the Nativity of Mary.\n\nThe reform of Pope Pius X in 1911 restored to prominence the celebration of Sundays in their own right, after they had been often replaced by celebrations of the saints. The celebration of the Holy Name of Mary was therefore moved to 12 September. Later in the same century, the feast was removed from the General Roman Calendar in 1969 in the reform of the Calendar by Pope Paul VI, as something of a duplication of the 8 September feast of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, but it did not cease to be a recognized feast of the Roman Rite, being mentioned in the Roman Martyrology on 12 September. In 2002 Pope Saint John Paul II restored the celebration to the General Roman Calendar.\n\nOne of the local traditions surrounding the development of the croissant, holds that the day was commemorated in Vienna by the creation of a new kind of pastry shaped in the form of a half-moon from the crest on the Turkish flag. It was eaten along with coffee which was part of the booty from the Turks.\n\nWilliam Joseph Chaminade chose the Feast of the Holy Name of Mary as the patronal feast of the Society of Mary (Marianists) rather than a day commemorating a particular dogma or devotion in order to focus on the person of Mary.\n\nA number of parishes and schools are dedicated in honor of the Holy Name of Mary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49112963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49112963", "title": "The night of churches", "text": "The night of churches\n\nThe night of churches or The long night of churches is an annual religious and cultural festival, organized by various churches. The main idea is that visitors can see sights (churches or chapels) without obligation and for free, and meet believers among many denominations.\n\nThe first long night of churches took place in Germany (Frankfurt and Hannover) in 2003. Since then it has been organized every year and expanded to more and more cities. Three years later there were 70 churches open in Hannover, receiving about 47,000 visitors.\n\nIn 2005 the long night of churches took place in Vienna, Austria. Four years later the Diocese of Brno in the Czech Republic joined. In the following years the event has expanded to more European countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "347925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347925", "title": "V. R. Krishna Iyer", "text": "V. R. Krishna Iyer\n\nJustice Vaidyanathapuram Rama Iyer Krishna Iyer (15 November 1915 – 4 December 2014) referred to as a conscience keeper of justice in India, was a visionary and a path-breaking judge, who reformed the Indian criminal justice system with bold changes to jails & police stations, and forged new tools to dispense social justice & justice in the public interest, which stood not just the test of time, but had a profound impact on justice delivery in India in the decades which followed. He pioneered the legal-aid movement in the country. Before that, he had pioneered land reforms law as a state minister & independent politician, which became a model for the rest of the country. He stood up for the poor and the underprivileged and was jailed for this once, as an activist lawyer. He zealously guarded human-rights regardless of finding himself isolated. He was a crusader for social action & the environment, and a champion of civil liberties, throughout life. A sports enthusiast and a prolific author, he was conferred with the Padma Vibhushan in 1999. Judges in India and around the world continue to cite his judgments in their decisions in court.\n\nVaidyanathapuram Rama Ayyar Krishna Iyer was born in 1915 in Vaidyanathapuram village in Palakkad, which was the part of the then Malabar region of the then Madras State, to a lawyer father, named Rama Iyer. He inherited from his father the qualities of taking an avid interest in the community around and using the law for the benefit of those more in need. He studied law from Madras, and started practice in his father's chamber in 1938 at Thalassery, Malabar. In 1948, when he protested the evil of torture by police for interrogation, he was imprisoned for a month on a fabricated charge of giving legal assistance to communists.\n\nHe was elected to the Madras Legislative Assembly in 1952, from Thalassery as a non-party, independent candidate. He became the first minister of law, justice, home, irrigation, power, prisons, social welfare and inland navigation in the first communist government in Kerala headed by E. M. S. Namboodiripad that came to power in 1957. He initiated legal-aid to the poor, jail reforms incorporating the rights of prisoners, and set up more courts and rescue homes for women and children. He got several labour and land reform laws passed. He resolved an inter-state water dispute between the newly formed neighbouring states, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. When this government was dismissed by the central government, he resumed legal practice in August 1959. He lost the 1965 assembly election, which he again contested as an independent candidate.\n\nHe was appointed a judge of the Kerala High Court in 1968. He was a member of the Law Commission from 1971 to 1973 where he drafted a comprehensive report, which would lead to the legal-aid movement in the country. He was elevated as judge of the Supreme Court of India in 1973.\n\nIn June 1975, the Allahabad High Court had unseated Prime Minister Indira Gandhi from the Parliament and barred her from it for another six years. Rebuffing favour-seekers, he heard a challenge to this order in the Supreme Court. He was both blamed for granting a conditional stay and praised for refusing an unconditional stay. Interpreting this as losing the popular mandate to rule, the Opposition called for her resignation. The next day she declared a state of Emergency in the country.\n\nA thinker ahead of his time, he would go on to write landmark judgments:\n paraphrasing an immemorial Arab proverb.\n\nHe brought in safeguards against custodial excesses. He made bail conditions humane and directed the government to provide free legal-aid to detainess in prisons facing charges, once ruling that:\n\nRejecting special courts to try people with influence or \"in towers of power\" for their excesses, he cautioned against retribution against them in a knee-jerk response, even as he commented on their violations, quoting an English verse thus: \n\nHe believed in correction and not retribution or vindictiveness in dealing with prisoners. He recommended that meditation methods of Yoga which he practiced, and which he observed in the prisons in the Americas and Oceania, could be introduced in the Indian justice system to help transform not just criminal tendencies in prisoners, but also help judges keep their mental poise invoking their higher values to have a better judgement of a case at hand. He introduced values of international covenants of human rights into Indian jurisprudence. Outlawing solitary confinement and fetters on prisoners as inhuman, he treated a prisoner’s letter posted from jail as a petition, commenting: Along with Justice P. N. Bhagwati, he introduced the concept of PILs (Public Interest Litigations) or \"people's involvement\" in the country's courts with a series of cases. This revolutionary tool, initially used by public-spirited citizens to file PILs on behalf of sections of society unable to on their own, continues to bring in unheard changes in the day-to-day lives of the people even now, decades later. Observing this, he states: \n\nWith an eye on evolving the law for the future, he would often put in a dissenting note in majority judgments, even as he strove for consensus with his brother judges on the bench. Sitting on the bench and away from it, he would reiterate time and again a guiding principle that laws must reflect justice, and justice in turn, must reflect life as lived by the people, stating: by climbing down from its high pedestal, shedding its static and sterile inertia, to ascertain ground realities for meeting the needs and aspirations of the people in an ever-changing society.\n\nHe retired as a judge on 14 November 1980 but, continued to advocate the cause of justice, on every forum and through his writings, participating in street protests, and his house would always remain open, bustling with all who sought his help or advice. He stood for the nation's President in 1987, as the Opposition's candidate against R. Venkataraman, the ruling Congress's nominee who won. In 2002, he inquired into the Gujarat riots as part of a citizens' panel, with retired Justice P. B. Sawant among others. He also headed the Kerala Law Reform Commission in 2009. He had been active, almost till a few weeks before his death, when ill-health and advancing age took their toll on him.\n\nHe died on 4 December 2014 at the age of 99. and was cremated with state honours. His wife, who would listen to him talk about his work, when on occasion he would change his mind after she gave her opinion on it, had predeceased him.\n\nHe has to his credit 70–100 books, mostly on law, and four travelogues. He has also authored a book in Tamil, \"Neethimandramum Samanvya Manithanum\". \"Leaves from My Personal Life\" is his autobiography. There are around five published books by other authors about him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53776571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53776571", "title": "Vaidya Rama Kant Mishra", "text": "Vaidya Rama Kant Mishra\n\nVaidya Rama Kant Mishra (also written as Vaidya RK Mishra) was an Indian writer and lecturer. He was born in 1952 at Bhagalpur, Bihar, India in a family of traditional Vaidyas (Ayurvedic physicians). He studied Āyurveda from his father Kameshwar Mishra from a young age and then embarked upon formal education from Bihar University (Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University). This was followed by a Sanskrit Degree from KSD University (Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University). He traveled to the USA to work for MAPI (Maharishi Ayurveda) where he jointly authored a number of books on Ayurveda. He introduced combining Ayurveda and traditional knowledge with modern methods, which he called \"from sutra to science\". He was the first Ayurvedic physician to discuss harmful effects of EMF and EMR, which he proposed long before the recent confirmation that EMF and EMR have biologically harmful effects. He also placed a strong emphasis on diet as a method of prevention and treatment and spent much time researching and understanding the impacts of different foods and methods of processing and preparing foods on maintaining good health.\n\nFor five years (between 1985 and 1991), he wrote a popular Ayurveda column for two of India's leading daily newspapers Prabhat Khabar and Uditvani. During that same period, Vaidya Mishra was interviewed for over 50 radio and television programs. He had also been interviewed about Ayurveda in numerous publications in Japan, Italy, and the U.S., and wrote and lectured extensively worldwide. He died on 13 April 2017.\n"}
{"id": "12937768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12937768", "title": "Vayu-Vata", "text": "Vayu-Vata\n\nVāyu-Vāta or \"Vāta-Vāyu\" (IPA: ) is the Avestan language name of a dual-natured Zoroastrian divinity of the wind (Vayu) and of the atmosphere (Vata). The names are also used independently of one another, with 'Vayu' occurring more frequently than 'Vata', but even when used independently still representing the other aspect.\n\nThe entity is simultaneously angelic and demonic, that is, depending on the circumstances, either \"yazata\" - \"worthy of worship\" - or \"daeva\", which in Zoroastrian tradition is a demon. Scripture frequently applies the epithet \"good\" when speaking of one or the other in a positive context.\n\nIn Zurvanism (Zurvanite Zoroastrianism, a now-extinct form of Zoroastrianism), Vata-Vayu represented two facets of the quaternary Zurvan. In this arrangement, Vata-Vayu represented \"space\" while the other two facets represent \"time.\"\n\nVayu-Vata has Indo-Iranian roots, and has the same name in historical Vedic religion.\n\nBoth the words Vāta and Vāyu have almost identical meanings in Sanskrit or Vedic traditions. Although there is no god representing Vata, there is the god Vayu representing air. The word Vata is still used today in many Indian languages to denote atmosphere. Atmosphere in Hindi , Marathi etc, is called Vatavaran (वातावरण). which is made of two words Vata meaning Air, Avaran (आवरण) meaning layer.\n\n"}
{"id": "21894979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21894979", "title": "Wilhelm Heitmüller", "text": "Wilhelm Heitmüller\n\nWilhelm Heitmüller (3 August 1869 – 29 January 1926) was a German Protestant theologian, born in Döteberg, presently a division in the town of Seelze.\n\nFollowing completion of theological studies, he attended the minister's seminary at Loccum. In 1902 he received his habilitation at Göttingen, and in 1908 became a professor of New Testament studies at the University of Marburg. Later on, he was appointed professor at the universities of Bonn (1920) and Tübingen (1924). He died, aged 56, in Tübingen.\n\nHeitmüller was a prominent member of the \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\" (History of religions school). Along with Wilhelm Bousset (1865–1920), he was editor of the journal \"Theologische Rundschau\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22414088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22414088", "title": "Yael Bartana", "text": "Yael Bartana\n\nYael Bartana (; born 1970, Kfar Yehezkel, Israel) is an Israeli artist working in film, installation and photography. Her work investigates \"the imagery of identity and the politics of memory.\" She is perhaps best known for the film trilogy \"And Europe Will Be Stunned\", which premiered at the Polish pavilion of the 2011 Venice Biennale and explores notions of identity and nationalism inherent to the right of return. She is based in Amsterdam, Berlin, and Tel Aviv.\n\nBartana received a BFA in photography from the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design Academy, Jerusalem, a MFA in 1999 from the School of Visual Arts, New York, and was an artist in residence at the Rijksakademie van Beelden de Kunsten in Amsterdam for two years, ending in 2001.\n\nYael Bartana’s films, film installations and photographs challenge the national consciousness that is propagated by her native country of Israel. Bartana focuses her work on the implied meanings of terms related to \"homeland\", \"return\", and \"belonging\". Her photography, film, and sound works investigate questions surrounding society, spirituality, and politics.\n\nBartana's platform for investigation includes ceremonies, public rituals and social diversions that are intended to reaffirm the collective identity of countries. Working outside the country, she observes it from a critical distance. Her early films were primarily registrations in which aesthetic interventions, including soundtracks, slowing the image and specific camera perspectives, played a role. \n\nBetween 2006 and 2011, she was working in Poland, creating the trilogy \"And Europe Will Be Stunned\", which examines 19th- and 20th-century Europe as a historic homeland for Ashkenazi Jews. This is a project on the history of Polish-Jewish relations and its influence on the contemporary Polish identity. The trilogy represented Poland in the 54th International Art Exhibition in Venice (the Venice Biennale, 2011). In recent years, she has increasingly staged her films, and proposed utopic narratives for new chapters of history. She was the first non-Polish citizen to represent Poland.\n\nAs a solo exhibition, her video trilogy has been on display at museums around the world. In 2013 her film \"And Europe Will Be Stunned\" was acquired in the permanent collection by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and the Tel Aviv Museum of Art.\n\nYael Bartana has had several solo exhibitions held at various venues including: the Museum of Modern Art in Warsaw, Van Abbemuseum in Eindhoven, MoMA PS1 in New York City, and Moderna Museet Malmö. She participated in Documenta 12 in Kassel in 2007, in the São Paulo Art Biennial 2010 and won the Artes Mundi Prize in 2010.\n\nShe has been nominated for and given many awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58310931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58310931", "title": "Zhi (excrescences)", "text": "Zhi (excrescences)\n\nThe Chinese term zhī (芝) commonly means \"fungi; mushroom\", best exemplified by the medicinal Lingzhi mushroom, but in Daoism it referred to a class of supernatural plant, animal, and mineral substances that were said to confer instantaneous \"xian\" immortality when ingested. In the absence of a semantically better English word, scholars have translated the wide-ranging meaning of \"zhi\" as \"excrescences\", \"exudations\", and \"cryptogams\".\n\nTranslating Chinese \"zhi\" (芝) is problematic. For instance, a recent Chinese-English dictionary says:\n\"Zhi\" has synonyms of \"lingzhi\" (靈芝, numinous \"zhi\"), \"yinzhi\" (陰草, concealed \"zhi\"), and \"zhicao\" (芝草, \"zhi\" plants), and is often associated with jade (Pregadio 2008: 1273).\n\nSeveral scholars have described the semantic range of \"zhi\".\n\nEarly Chinese dictionaries provide insight into the semantics of \"zhi\". The c. 4th or 3rd century BCE \"Erya\" (\"Shidi\" 釋草, Explaining Plant[name]s) defines \"zhíguàn\" (淔灌) as \"xiúzhī\" (苬芝), \"\"Zhiguan\" is a numinous mushroom\" (tr. Steavu 2018: 359). Guo Pu's c. 310 commentary says he was unfamiliar with the \"zhíguàn\", and glosses, \"The \"zhi\" flowers three times in one year, it is a felicitous plant\" (芝一歲三華苬瑞草). The c. 1822 \"Erya\" subcommentary of Hao Yixing (郝懿行) says \"xiúzhī\" (苬芝) is a copyist's error for \"junzhi\" (菌芝, \"mushrooms\", see \"Baopuzi\" below), which is another synonym of \"lingzhi\". The 121 CE \"Shuowen jiezi\" (Plant Radical section 艸部) defines \"zhi\" (芝) as \"divine plants\" (神艸也) (tr. Steavu 2018: 357).\n\nThe Chinese character for \"zhi\" is classified as a typical radical-phonetic compound character combining the \"plant\" radical 艹 and a \"zhī\" ( \"to go; grammatical particle\") phonetic element. In ancient oracle bone script and bronze inscription script, \"zhǐ\" < Old Chinese *\"təʔ\" (止, \"to stop; stop in\", originally a \"foot\" pictograph) was used as a phonetic loan character for \"zhī\" < OC *\"tə\" (之) (Karlgren 1957: 253-254). The \"zhǐ\" (芷 with the \"plant radical\", also written 芝) refers to the fragrant \"Chinese angelica\".\n\nThe Chinese classics first recorded \"zhi\" (芝) during the Warring States period (475–221 BCE) and the Han Dynasty (206 BCE-220 CE). Occurrences in early Chinese histories, such as the (91 BCE) \"Shiji\" \"Records of the Grand Historian\" and (82 CE) \"Hanshu\" \"Book of Han\", predominantly refers to the \"Mushroom of Immortality; elixir of life\". They record that fangshi \"masters of esoterica; alchemists; magicians\", supposedly followers of Zou Yan (305–240 BCE), claimed to know secret locations like Mount Penglai where the magic \"Zhi\" mushroom grew. Some sinologists propose that the mythical \"zhi\" derived from Indian legends about soma that reached China around the 3rd century BCE (Unschuld 1985: 112). \"Fangshi\" courtiers convinced Qin and Han emperors, most notably Qin Shi Huang (r. 221–210 BCE) and Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141–87 BCE), to dispatch large expeditions (e.g., Xu Fu in 219 BCE) seeking the \"Zhi\" Plant of Immortality, but none produced tangible results. \"Zhi\" occurrences in other classical texts often refer to an edible fungus. \n\nThe \"Liji\" \"Record of Ritual\" lists \"zhi\" \"lichens\" as a type of condiment (Legge 1885, 1: 461). The \"Chuci\" (Song of the South) metaphorically mentions, \"The holy herb is weeded out\" (tr. Hawkes 1985: 258). The \"Huainanzi\" (Philosophers of Huainan) records a \"zizhi\" (紫芝, \"purple mushroom\") aphorism, \"The \"zhi\" fungus grows on mountains, but it cannot grow on barren boulders\" (tr. Major et al. 2010: 634)\n\nThe Jin Dynasty Daoist scholar Ge Hong's c. 320 CE \"Baopuzi\" (Master Who Embraces Simplicity) is the earliest surviving source of information about \"zhi\" excrescences.\n\nBased upon no longer extant texts and illustrations, Chapter 11 (Xianyao 仙藥, Medicines of Immortality) outlines folklore and knowledge about \"zhi\", and elucidates the \"wuzhi\" (五芝, Five \"Zhi\") classification system. The chapter begins with quoting from the lost \"Shennong sijing\" (神農四經, Shennong's Four Classics) that rates \"zhi\" among \"medicines of highest type\", \"The various (five) excrescences [mushrooms, lichens, etc.] may be nibbled, and cinnabar, jade flakes, laminar malachite, realgar, orpiment, mica, and brown hematite may be taken singly, and any of them can enable a man to fly and to enjoy Fullness of Life.\" (tr. Ware 1966: 177).\n\nGe Hong then explains the five numinous \"zhi\" classes based on their appearance and habitat, each said to have over 100 varieties: \"shizhi\" (芝), \"muzhi\" (芝), \"caozhi\" (芝), \"rouzhi\" (芝), and \"junzhi\" (芝, see \"Erya\" above), which are translated as:\n\"Shizhi\" look like rocks, and grow from craggy cliffs or at the foot of lofty peaks. \"Muzhi\" grow from the roots or congealed sap of ancient trees, usually evergreens. \"Caozhi\" grow either among vegetation or in complete isolation from it, and appear morphologically identical to conventional plants, complete with stems, leaves, flowers, and fruit. \"Rouzhi\" include some exceedingly rare creatures, such as a 10,000-year-old horned toad, a 1,000-year-old white bat (which when eaten will extend one's lifespan to 40,000 or 1,000 years, respectively), and a 7-inch tall humanoid figure riding in a miniature horse-drawn carriage (which grants immediate \"xian\"-hood when consumed). \"Junzhi\" flourish where standard fungal growths proliferate, and can look like dragons, tigers, human beings, palaces, or flying birds (Steavu 2018: 362-363).\n\nBased upon later accounts of the Five \"Zhi\", Lu tentatively identifies the three natural types. \"Shizhi\" is described as a shapeless and colorless thing, sometimes looking like a mass of fat, perhaps some underground stem species, such as \"Tuber sinense\" and \"Rhizopogon piceus\". \"Muzhi\" is compared \"tiny trees\" on \"fuling\" (茯苓, \"Wolfiporia extensa\"), which may refer to the fruiting bodies that grow out of the sclerotia. \"Caozhi\" can refer to the orchid \"tianma\" (天麻, lit. \"heavenly cannabis\", \"Gastrodia elata\"), the \"root\" of which is actually a stem tuber (2013: 54).\n\nGe Hong also gives detailed Daoist purification and ritual instructions for gathering \"zhi\" excrescences, such as an adept walking with Yu's Pace when approaching, and using a bone knife to harvest them. Anyone who wants to gather \"zhi\" must wait for a calendrically auspicious day and can only enter the sacred mountains on the third or ninth lunar month, when the mountains are open to access and the \"zhi\" with miraculous curative power come forth. The Daoist adept is advised to have a Lingbao amulet, a white dog, and a white chicken before making sacrificial offerings to the mountain gods. Ultimately, whether or not adepts can find \"zhi\" depends upon their character and intelligence. Mediocre practitioners \"do not know the art of entering mountains. One may have pictures, but if the shapes are not known it is utterly impossible to find the excrescences. All mountains, whether large or small, contain ghosts and gods which withhold these things from people, so it would be possible to be walking right over them without seeing them.\" (tr. Ware 1966: 186)\n\nAnother \"Baopuzi\" chapter uses ordinary and numinous \"zhijun\" (芝菌, mushrooms) as an analogy for natural and alchemical gold. \"Mushrooms grow naturally, but some genii classics speak of five sorts of \"stone\" and five sorts of \"wood\" excrescences [五石五木種芝], which are gathered and taken after they appear, and are no different from the mushrooms which occur in nature [自然芝], for all of them will bring a man to Fullness of Life.\" (16, tr. Ware 1966: 268). From this statement, Pregadio says although there may be no better \"zhi\" translation than \"mushrooms\" or \"excrescences\", they \"pertain to an intermediate dimension between mundane and transcendent reality\" (2008: 1273).\n\nKristofer Schipper says that for Ge Hong, \"zhi\" mushrooms had \"immortalizing properties\" because they are produced from the sublimation of \"waidan\" alchemical minerals lying under the ground, notably gold and the divine cinnabar (cf. \"Mingjian yaojing\" below). Mushrooms are, so to speak \"natural alchemical products, comparable to the great elixir, the quintessence derived from the transmutation of these very minerals\" (1993: 174).\n\nTwo of Ge Hong's descriptions are found in the \"Jiuzhuan huandan jing yaojue\" below.\n\nThe 3rd or 4th century \"Taishang lingbao wufu xu\" (太上靈寳五符序, The Array of the Five Numinous Treasure Talismans) is sometimes cited as another early source that mentions \"zhi\" numinous mushrooms—a misunderstanding that is owing to the usage of \"wuzhi\" (五芝) to mean \"five plants\" rather than \"five excrescences\". The text has a section titled \"Fushi wuzhi zhj jing\" (服食五芝之精, Ingesting the Essences of the Five Plants), meaning \"plants\" since they are pine-resin (\"weixi\" 威僖), sesame (\"huma\" 胡麻), fagara (\"jiao\" 椒), ginger (\"jiang\" 薑), and calamus (\"changpu\" 菖蒲), Steavu translates Five Plants and notes this as one of the unambiguous and relatively rare occasions when the term \"zhi\" should be taken more generically as \"plant\" rather than \"(numinous) mushroom\" (2018: 363). \n\nHowever, the \"Taishang lingbao wufu xu\" mentions an otherwise unattested text named \"Shenxian zhi tu\" (神仙芝圖, Illustrations of the Mushrooms of Divine Immortality), which scholars associate with the five lost texts listed in the \"Baopuzi\" bibliographic chapter: \"Muzhi tu\" (木芝圖, Illustrations of Wood Mushrooms), \"Junzhi tu\" (菌芝圖, Illustrations of Fungus Mushrooms), \"Rouzhi tu\" (肉芝圖, Illustrations of Flesh Mushrooms), \"Shizhi tu\" (石芝圖, Illustrations of Stone Mushrooms), and \"Dapo zazhi tu\" (大魄雜芝圖, Illustrations of the Sundry Mushrooms of the Great Whitesoul) (Lu 2013: 54, tr. Steavu 2018: 363).\n\nThe second earliest reliable source of \"zhi\" information is the \"Maojun wuzhong zhirong fang\" (茅君五種芝茸方, The Method of Lord Mao's Five Kinds of Mushroom Growths) section of the 4th or 5th century Daoist Shangqing School \"waidan\" classic \"Taiji zhenren jiuzhuan huandan jing yaojue\" (太極真人九轉還丹經要訣, Essential Instructions on the Scripture of the Reverted Elixir in Nine Cycles, by the Perfected of the Great Ultimate) (Steavu 2018: 364). The text's three sections comprise an alchemical recipe for the famous Elixir of the Nine Cycles, two methods for compounding minor drugs, and a brief account of the Shangqing saint Mao Ying (茅盈) planting five sacred varieties of \"zhi\" (芝, \"'fungus'; supernatural plants that only adepts can recognize as such\") (tr. Pregadio 2000: 174). These sections were first appended to Lord Mao's revealed biography from earlier sources, and then separated from it to form the present text (Pregadio 2008: 1273). \n\nAccording to Shangqing traditions, the Queen Mother of the West gave \"zhi\" numinous mushrooms to Lord Mao, who planted five kinds on the Shangqing center Maoshan (茅山, Mt. Mao) in Jiangsu, which is the site of Jintan (金壇, Golden Altar), one of the ten greater Grotto-Heavens, and Jinling (金陵, Golden Mound), one of the seventy-two Blissful Lands (or Paradises, 福地) (Miura 2008: 368-369). The Daoist scholar and alchemist Tao Hongjing (456-536), who compiled the Shangqing canon, recorded that the hidden mushrooms Lord Mao planted on Maoshan were still found during his lifetime (Strickmann 1979: 176).\n\nThe \"Maojun wuzhong zhirong fang\" describes Lord Mao's five types of \"zhi\" fungi, recommends searching for them in the third or ninth month, gives instructions for consumption, and accounts their expected benefits. Two of these five descriptions closely correspond, almost verbatim, to passages from the \"caozhi\" \"plant mushrooms\" and \"muzhi\" \"wood mushrooms\" sub-headings in the \"Baopuzi\", underscoring the text's \"status as a \"locus classicus\" of all things at once Daoist and fungal\" (Steavu 2018: 365). \n\nConcerning the \"Jiuzhuan huandan jing yaojue\" uniting two sections about \"waidan\" alchemical elixirs with one about \"zhi\" excrescences, Strickmann says the \"juxtaposition of alchemy and occult horticulture is very suggestive\", and provides two other parallels for the Daoist fusion of plants and minerals (1979: 170). The \"waidan\" alchemical \"langgan huadan\" (琅玕華丹, Elixir Efflorescence of Langgan), which is prepared through an \"extraordinary amalgam\" of vegetable and mineral processes, may have come into being through a conscious fusion of the two types of instructions, originally discretely mineral and vegetable, in the life of Lord Mao (1979: 136, 170). Tao Hongjing's disciple Zhou Ziliang (周子良, 497–516) was commanded by Shangqing deities to commit ritual suicide with an elixir of poisonous mushrooms and cinnabar, which in one sense, indicated the \"mortal-immortal's comprehensive power over the elements\" (1979: 176). The lethal ingredients in Zhou's \"jiuzhen yuli dan\" (九真玉瀝丹, Ninefold Perfected Jade-liquor Elixir) were \"langgezhi\" (琅葛芝, \"the nine-stalked purple fungus\") and jade-infused vermillion (1979: 159).\n\nThe third earliest source is the c. 7th or 8th century \"Laozi yuxia zhongzhi jing shenxian bishi\" (老子玉匣中種芝經神仙秘事, Scripture on Growing Mushrooms from Laozi's Jade Casket: The Secret of Divine Immortals) is the last section of the \"Mingjian yaojing\" (明鑒要經, Scripture on the Essentials of the Bright Mirror [Method]), and shares passages with another Shangqing text, the \"Zhong zhicao fa\" (種芝草法, Methods for Planting the \"Zhi\" Plants), probably dating from the late Six Dynasties (222-589) or Southern dynasties (420-589) periods (Pregadio 2008: 1273, Lu 2013: 52).\n\nThe \"Shenxian bishi\" is the only text in the Daoist Canon that precisely explains the fungiculture for numinous \"zhi\", in contrast, other canonical texts simply guide mushroom hunters in identifying and locating \"zhi\" in the wild. It contains instructions attributed to Laozi that the best \"zhi\" are those that grow above deposits of cinnabar (\"dansha\" 丹砂), gold (\"huangjin\" 黃金), laminar malachite (\"cengqing\" 曾青), and realgar (\"xionghuang\" 雄黃), and teaches how to bury these minerals in the four seasons and the four directions of a mountain in order to generate the four \"zhi\" excrescences. This Daoist text has an unusually detailed description of only four \"zhi\", rivaling the \"Baopuzi\" in terms of \"the amount of information provided per specimen\" (Steavu 2018: 366, 368).\n\nThe text begins with a passage contrasting three kinds of plant-based medicinal and spiritual substances: longevity drugs, naturally growing \"zhi\" excrescences, and artificially cultivated ones. Traditional Chinese medicines, such as asparagus root (\"tianmen dong\" 天門冬), or atractylis (\"shanji\" 山蓟), can be effective in improving health and extending lifespan, but only if properly consumed every day. The varieties of numinous \"zhi\" mushrooms that grow on trees or mountains can bestow full immortality, however most need to be ingested gradually over many years before the adept achieves transcendence. Only \"zhi\" that are cultivated above four special soil conditioning minerals, which are highly-valued in Chinese alchemy, can grant immortality almost instantly upon ingestion (Steavu 2018: 368). The esoteric basis for these mushrooms' exceptional potency is explained,\nIndeed, accretions on top of cinnabar, accretions on top of gold, accretions on top of laminar malachite, and accretions on top of realgar, all of them generate [numinous] mushrooms. These mushrooms are not those of utmost virtue that respond to divinity, for one can encounter them yet not see them and not be able to eat them. The reason why these mushrooms can immediately make people become immortals is because, by receiving the perfect essence [\"zhijing\" 至精] of those four substances, they incorporate the harmonious breath [\"heqi\" 和氣] of Heaven and Earth and Yin and Yang along with its fragrant fluids; and by means of this they accomplish generative transformation. These [four] medicines are in fact divine on account of the basic nature of those four substances. (tr. Steavu 2018: 369) \n\nTake laminar malachite (\"cengqing\" 曾青, lit. \"layered blue\"), the first of the four alchemical minerals, as an example of the \"Laozi yuxia zhongzhi jing shenxian bishi\"'s detailed instructions for cultivating supernatural \"zhi\".\nOn a day at the beginning of spring, dig up the ground at the [shaded] East-northeast area of a household. Whether it is on the inside or the outside of the dwelling does not matter; it is only necessary to obtain [a site with] good soil that is not too ashen. Dig and make hole that is three feet deep and three feet across. Take one catty [1.3 pounds] of laminar malachite mineral and process it into grounds. Wrap the grounds in a sheep's [skin] to keep them together. Sprinkle with half a liter of blue cockscomb (\"Celosia cristata\") [and place them in the hole]. Cover with soil and pound on top. After seven days, there should be blue clouds that come and cover the site, and after seventy days, it will generate blue breath that [rises and] connects with the blue clouds above. After a hundred days, a [blue] mushroom will sprout atop the site, as shown in the following image [the image is missing]. On a \"yinmao\" day following sunset, make an offering of three feet of blue silk, while grasping a bone knife, perform the Pace of Yu and cut out the mushroom. [Depart] and be careful not to look back [after completing the harvest]. Then, return to dry the mushroom in the shade for one hundred clays and process it into grounds. Ingest one spatula full and take it thrice daily by means of fragrant well water. When the mushroom is entirely consumed, you will immediately be able to lightly float about. Gods will arrive to welcome you. You will ascend to heaven in broad daylight and be as limitless as Heaven and Earth. (tr. Steavu 2018: 369-370) \nSeveral of these particular ritual elements for cultivating a malachite \"zhi\" are found in the \"Baopuzi\" passage on mushroom \"junzhi\", including the exorcistic Pace of Yu, the bone knife, and the specifics of drying and processing. These instructions are essentially a more intricate version of what is found in the \"Baopuzi\", a source that \"set the standard for texts on numinous mushrooms and was still used as a template over five hundred years after it was written\" (Steavu 2018: 370).\n\nDirectives for the three remaining types of \"zhi\" mushrooms follow the same sacramental blueprint as well. The adept follows a precise practice of planting, harvesting, and consuming \"zhi\" fungi that sprout upon a divine class of minerals identified with four of the Wuxing (Five Agents, Five Phases), corresponding to the spring/east/blue malachite \"zhi\" in seasons, cardinal directions, cloud and mist colors, and supernatural results. Summer/south/red cinnabar \"zhi\": will transform all internal illnesses into turbid blood that flows out through the mouth and nose, and adepts will \"immediately be able to pace on water, [pass through] flames and fire without getting burned, and cut out grains and not eat [without being hungry]\" (Steavu 2018: 371). Autumn/west/yellow gold \"zhi\": ensures that \"the old will be young anew, the young will develop a beautiful countenance, white hair will all turn black, and lost teeth will grow back\" (Steavu 2018: 372). Winter/north/purple \"zhi\" realgar \"zhi\": they will \"enjoy longevity coterminous with Heaven. Stabbing and slicing will not pierce them, nor will fire burn them, and submerging them in water will not [even] wet them. The five poisons will keep away from them, evil spirits will be dispelled, and they will not know hunger or thirst\" (Steavu 2018: 373).\n\nThe c. 10th- or 11th-century \"Bianshi sanshiliu zhong zhicao bianxing zhang\" (辯識三十六種芝草變形章, Chapter on the Explanation and Discernment of the Thirty-Six Varieties of Mushroom Plants' Transformations of Form) is part of a larger section on mountain survival in the \"Sanhuang neibi wen\" (三皇內祕文, Esoteric Secret Writ of the Three Sovereigns). This source is a compilation of methods traditionally associated with the Sanhuang (三皇, Three Sovereigns) tradition, which was an integral part of the southern Jiangnan esoteric lore, including the mycological path to immortality, that Ge Hong documented in his \"Baopuzi\". This chapter on mushrooms lists the names of four sets of nine numinous \"zhi\" mushrooms, divided according to where they grow (on sacred mountains, along riverbanks, in caves, or on withered trees) along with details of their respective appearances and benefits (Steavu 2018: 367).\n\nThe two subsequent chapters in the \"Sanhuang neibi wen\" describe a list of thirty-six medicinal \"xianyao\" (仙藥, herbs of immortality) and \"jingcao\" (精草, essence-plants) (辯識三十六種仙藥形像章), and a talismanic seal of the \"dihuang\" (地皇, Earthly Sovereign) by means of which practitioners can cause numinous herbs and mushrooms to manifest before them (地皇君服餌仙朮昇仙得道章) (Steavu 2018: 368).\n\nThe early 11th-century Song dynasty \"Taishang lingbao zhicao pin\" (太上靈寶芝草品, Numinous Treasure Catalogue of Mushroom Plants), contained in the 1444 Ming Dynasty edition \"Daozang\" \"Daoist canon\", contains brief descriptions and illustrations of 127 types of numinous \"zhi\". A 1598 Ming dynasty reprint includes woodblock pictures (see below), whose aesthetic appeal typifies the \"pu\" (譜, \"catalogs; manuals\") of uncommon objects compiled by Song and later literati (Pregadio 2008: 1274).\n\nThe text uses botanical terms to describe the appearance of \"zhi\" (stalk, branch, leaf, root), depicts the habitats and the seasons suitable for growth, and reports \"zhi\" tastes, as well as methods of picking, preparing, and eating. Some illustrations even show the gills (Lu 2013: 54). Not all the 127 kinds of \"zhi\" have a unique name: twelve terms are used to name twenty-eight kinds of \"zhi\", for example, five are named \"zizhi\" (紫芝, purple mushroom). Twenty-five of these \"zhi\" terms correspond with the Five Phases theory of \"jin\" (金, Metal), \"mu\" (木, Wood), \"shui\" (水, Water), \"huo\" (火, Fire), and \"tu\" (土, Earth). For instance, each phase name is compounded with -\"jingzhi\" (精芝, -spirit \"zhi\"), see \"jinjingzhi\" (金精芝, metal spirit \"zhi\") and \"mujingzhi\" (木精芝, wood spirit \"zhi\") below. One scholar divided the 127 types of \"zhi\" into six groups: single umbrella-shaped macrofungi (34 kinds), umbrella-shaped macrofungi in clusters (8), umbrella-shaped and cup-shaped macrofungi with branches on a stalk (12 kinds), umbrella-shaped macrofungi in layers (18 kinds), strange umbrella-shaped and cup-shaped macrofungi (29), and non-macrofungi (26 kinds) (Lu 2013: 53).\n\nFor example, the \"gui junzhi\" (鬼菌芝, ghost mushroom) entry says, \"The ghost mushroom grows on the shady [north] side of famous mountains, and has a white lid shaped like cooking pot. Two ghosts who guard it will disappear if seen by a human. One should gather it at night, dry it in the shade for 100 days, and directly consume it in a single dose like a medicinal powder. The legendary Weaver Girl took one dose and became a \"xian\" transcendent who rose right up into heaven\" (鬼菌芝生於名山之陰白蓋狀如甑二鬼守之見人即滅以夜採之陰乾百日食如刀圭所向盡服織女服之仙昇天矣). Despite the epigrammatic nature of its entries, the \"Taishang lingbao zhicao pin\" is exceptional on account of its \"exhaustive scope and its vivid iconography\". It was likely compiled as a throwback to the lost illustrated mycological inventories mentioned in the \"Baopuzi\", and in faithfully emulating these early sources, the text \"established itself an enduring paragon of the genre\" (Steavu 2018: 336).\n\nDaoist metaphors originally associated with supernatural \"zhi\" excrescences were gradually lost, resulting in more \"secular\" views. Some pharmacopoeias that incorporated the \"zhi\" may have played a role in this process, as the term \"zhi\" became identified with common mushrooms, resulting in an emphasis on their healing properties (Pregadio 2008: 1274). \n\nThe (ca. 1st or 2nd century CE) \"Shennong bencao jing\" (Divine Farmer's Classic of Pharmaceutics) classifies \"zhi\" into six color types, each of which is believed to benefit the \"qi\" \"Life Force\" in a different part of the body: \"qingzhi\" (青芝, Green Mushroom) for Liver, \"chizhi\" (赤芝, Red Mushroom) for Heart, \"huangzhi\" (黃芝, Yellow Mushroom) for Spleen, \"baizhi\" (白芝, White Mushroom) for Lungs, \"heizhi\" (黑芝, Black Mushroom) for Kidneys, and \"zizhi\" (紫芝, Purple Mushroom\" for Essence. According to the Chinese mycologist Zhao Jiding (趙繼鼎), Green \"zhi\" refers to \"Coriolus versicolor\", Red \"zhi\" to \"Ganoderma lucidum\", Yellow \"zhi\" to \"Laetiporus sulphureus\", White \"zhi\" to \"Fomitopsis officinalis\", Black \"zhi\" to \"Amauroderma rugosum\" or \"Polyporus melanopus\", and Purple \"zhi\" to \"Ganoderma sinense\" (Lu 2013: 43).\n\nThe (1596) \"Bencao Gangmu\" (Compendium of Materia Medica) has a \"zhi\" (芝) category that includes the same green, red, yellow, white, black, and purple \"liuzhi\" (六芝 Six Mushrooms) and sixteen other fungi, mushrooms, and lichens, such as the \"mu'er\" (木耳, lit. \"wood ear\", \"Auricularia polytricha\"). The \"Bencao Gangmu\" author Li Shizhen classified these six differently colored \"Zhi\" as \"Xiancao\" (仙草, \"immortality herbs\"), and described the effects of \"chizhi\" \"red mushroom\": \"It positively affects the life-energy, or \"Qi\" of the heart, repairing the chest area and benefiting those with a knotted and tight chest. Taken over a long period of time, the agility of the body will not cease, and the years are lengthened to those of the Immortal Fairies\" (tr. Halpern 2007: 59).\n\nThe \"Bencao Gangmu\" does not list \"lingzhi\" as a variety of \"zhi\", but as an alternate name for the \"shi'er\" (石耳, \"stone ear\", \"Umbilicaria esculenta\" lichen). According to Stuart and Smith, \"[The 石耳] is edible, and has all of the good qualities of the 芝 ([\"Zhi\"]), it is also being used in the treatment of gravel, and said to benefit virility. It is specially used in hemorrhage from the bowels and prolapse of the rectum\" (1911: 274).\n\nChinese pharmaceutical handbooks on \"Zhi\" mushrooms were the first illustrated publications in the history of mycology. The historian of Chinese science Joseph Needham discussed a lost Liang Dynasty (502–587) illustrated text called \"Zhong Shenzhi\" (種神芝, \"On the Planting and Cultivation of Magic Mushrooms\"). \"The pictures of mushrooms, in particular, must have been an extremely early landmark in the history of mycology, which was a late-developing science in the West. The title of [this book] shows that fungi of some kind were being regularly cultivated – hardly as food, with that special designation, more probably medicinal, conceivably hallucinogenic.\" (Needham and Lu 1986: 261).\n\n"}
