{"id": "34567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34567", "title": "15th century", "text": "15th century\n\nThe 15th century was the century which spans the Julian years 1401 to 1500.\n\nIn Europe, the 15th century is seen as the bridge between the Late Middle Ages, the Early Renaissance, and the Early modern period. \nMany technological, social and cultural developments of the 15th century can in retrospect be seen as heralding the \"European miracle\" of the following centuries. In religious history, the Roman Papacy was split in two parts in Europe for decades (the so-called Western Schism), until the Council of Constance. The division of the Catholic Church and the unrest associated with the Hussite movement would become factors in the rise of the Protestant Reformation in the following century.\n\nConstantinople, in what is today Turkey, then the capital of the Christian Byzantine Empire, falls to the emerging Muslim Ottoman Turks, marking the end of the tremendously influential Byzantine Empire and, for some historians, the end of the Middle Ages. The event forced Western Europeans to find a new trade route, adding further momentum to what was the beginning of the Age of Discovery, which would lead to the global mapping of the world. Explorations by the Portuguese and Spanish led to European sightings of the Americas (the New World) and the sea passage along Cape of Good Hope to India, in the last decade of the century. These expeditions ushered in the era of the Portuguese and Spanish colonial empires.\n\nThe fall of Constantinople led to the migration of Greek scholars and texts to Italy, while Johannes Gutenberg's invention of the mechanical movable type began the Printing Press. These two events played key roles in the development of the Renaissance.\n\nThe Spanish Reconquista leads to the final fall of the Emirate of Granada by the end of the century, ending over seven centuries of Muslim rule and returning Spain back to Christian rulers.\n\nThe Hundred Years' War end with a decisive French victory over the English in the Battle of Castillon. Financial troubles in England following the conflict results in the Wars of the Roses, a series of dynastic wars for the throne of England. The conflicts end with the defeat of Richard III by Henry VII at the Battle of Bosworth Field, establishing the Tudor dynasty in the later part of the century.\n\nIn Asia, under the rule of the Yongle Emperor, who built the Forbidden City and commanded Zheng He to explore the world overseas, the Ming Dynasty's territory reached its pinnacle. \nTamerlane established a major empire in the Middle East and Central Asia, in order to revive the Mongol Empire.\n\nIn Africa, the spread of Islam leads to the destruction of the Christian kingdoms of Nubia, by the end of the century leaving only Alodia (which was to collapse in 1504). The formerly vast Mali Empire teeters on the brink of collapse, under pressure from the rising Songhai Empire.\n\nIn the Americas, both the Inca Empire and the Aztec Empire reach the peak of their influence.\n\n1400s\n1410s\n1420s\n\n1430s\n1440s\n1450s\n1460s\n\n\n1470s\n\n1480s\n\n1490s-1500\n\n\nSee links above for Italian Renaissance painting and Renaissance sculpture.\n\n\n\n\n\nList of 15th century inventions\n______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________\n"}
{"id": "38312268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38312268", "title": "1959 in philosophy", "text": "1959 in philosophy\n\n1959 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "202617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202617", "title": "37th century BC", "text": "37th century BC\n\nThe 37th century BC was a century which lasted from the year 3700 BC to 3601 BC.\n\n"}
{"id": "52588332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52588332", "title": "Alejandro Felipe Paula", "text": "Alejandro Felipe Paula\n\nAlejandro Felipe Paula also known as Jandi Paula (May 2, 1937 - Aug 13, 2018) was a Curaçaoan academic, historian and politician. He served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands Antilles from 28 December 1993 to 31 March 1994. Paula was director of the National Archive of the Netherlands Antilles between 1969 and 1989. He also was a professor and rector at the University of the Netherlands Antilles in the 1990s.\n\nPaula was born on Curaçao on 2 May 1937. He was partially schooled in Trinidad and Tobago. Paula later studied in the Netherlands, the Dominican Republic and Italy. After the 1969 Curaçao uprising Paula served on the Rebuilding commission and the investigationary commission. He served as chair of the latter commission but resigned after being threatened.\n\nPaula served as director of the National Archive of the Netherlands Antilles between 1969 and 1989. Paula was a lecturer, and later professor, of sociology, philosophy and human rights at the University of the Netherlands Antilles from 1990 to 2000. In his last three years he served as rector magnificus.\n\nOn 19 November 1993 a Curaçao status referendum was held. With the outcome in opposition to what she had campaigned for, Prime Minister Maria Liberia Peters resigned. She was succeeded by Suzanne Camelia-Römer. Paula was appointed as formateur by Governor of the Netherlands Antilles, Jaime Saleh. He managed to form a coalition government which would rule until a government would be formed after the February 1994 general election. Paula himself served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands Antilles. His government was sworn in on 28 December 1993. He was succeeded when the government of was installed on 31 March 1994.\n\nPaula married a woman from Trinidad in 1966. The couple has two children. In 2011 the Peter Stuyvesant College was renamed in Paula's honour.. Paula passed away on August 13, 2018 due to health complications.\n"}
{"id": "19850108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19850108", "title": "Alf Lüdtke", "text": "Alf Lüdtke\n\nAlf Lüdtke (born 18 October 1943 in Dresden) (also Alf Luedtke) is a historian and a leading German representative of the history of everyday life (\"Alltagsgeschichte\" in German). He says his main fields of interest and research include work as a social practice, the connection of production and destruction through \"work\", forms of taking part and acquiescing in European dictatorships in the 20th century, and remembering and memorialising forms of dealing with war and genocide in the modern era.\n\nTogether with Hans Medick, Alf Lüdtke can be considered a founder of \"Alltagsgeschichte\", a form of microhistory that was particularly prevalent amongst German historians during the 1980s.\n\nLüdtke studied history along with sociology and philosophy in Tübingen (1965-1972, MA 1974). In 1980 he obtained his doctorate at the University of Konstanz. Lüdtke's dissertation \"Gemeinwohl, Polizei und Festungspraxis\" analysed governmental violence practices of Prussia in the early 19th century. One of his articles, \"The Role of State Violence in the Period of Transition to Industrial Capitalism: The Example of Prussia from 1815 to 1848\", was published in \"Social History\" in 1979. His article describes the idea that state violence under the feudal system was necessary to create a control amongst the Prussian working class in order to prepare them for the different structure of capitalist society. Lüdtke was interested in how the growth of state and the growth of capitalism related to each other.\n\nIn 1988 he attained his habilitation in the fields Modern History (\"Neuere Geschichte\") and Contemporary History (\"Zeitgeschichte\") at the faculty of the humanities and social science of the University of Hannover, where he subsequently taught history from 1989 to 1999. In 1995 he was appointed extraordinary professor in Hannover and in 1999 professor at the University of Erfurt. In Erfurt, Lüdtke is honorary professor for historical anthropology since 2008.\nSince 1975 Lüdtke worked at the Max Planck Institute for History in Göttingen. In 1999 Alf Lüdtke and Hans Medick founded the \"Arbeitsstelle für Historische Anthropologie\" of the Max Planck Institute for History at the University of Erfurt.\n\nSince the 1980s, Lüdtke has kept regular contacts in France and the USA, among other things through the International Round Table of History and Anthropology. Since the beginning of the 1990s he regularly was guest professor at the historical seminar at the University of Michigan and the University of Chicago. At the end of the 1990s first contacts with South Korea developed, which evolved into regular scholarly exchanges. Beginning in 2005, Lüdtke took part in the conferences on Mass Dictatorship at the Research Institute on Comparative Culture and History (RICH) in Seoul. From November 2008 to August 2013 he did seminars and workshops in South Korea as part of the \"World Class University\" program of the Korean National Research Foundation.\n\nSince 2011 Lüdtke has been a member of the work group \"Erfurter RaumZeit-Forschun\", since 2014 he is a fellow at the \"Internationales Geisteswissenschaftliches Kolleg\" \"Work and Life Cycle in Global Perspective\" at Humboldt University of Berlin.\n\nLüdtke is the founder and editor of the journal \"Sozialwissenschaftliche Informationen\", as well as co-founder and co-editor of the journals \"Werkstatt Geschichte\" and \"Historische Anthropologie. Kultur – Gesellschaft – Alltag\".\n\nLüdtke combined issues of sociology, ethnology and anthropology with those of history. Especially through his research on the life worlds of industrial workers and so-called \"ordinary\" people, he gave impetuses to German and international historical science. His recent research projects include \"Blockings and Passages: the Grenzübergangsstellen of the GDR\", war as work, and the recent state of transnational historiography.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50888486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50888486", "title": "Alina (malware)", "text": "Alina (malware)\n\nAlina is a Point of Sale Malware or POS RAM Scraper that is used by cybercriminals to scrape credit card and debit card information from the point of sale system. It first started to scrape information in late 2012. It resembles JackPOS Malware.\n\nOnce executed, it gets installed on the user's computer and checks for updates. If an update is found, it removes the existing Alina code and installs the latest version. Then, for new installations, it adds the file path to an AutoStart runkey to maintain persistence. Finally, it adds java.exe to the %APPDATA% directory and executes it using the parameter codice_1 for new installations or, codice_2 for upgrades.\n\nAlina inspects the user's processes with the help of Windows API calls:\nAlina maintains a blacklist of processes, if there is no process information in the blacklist it uses OpenProcess() to read and process the contents in the memory dump. Once the data is scraped Alina sends it to C&C servers using an HTTP POST command that is hardcoded in binary.\n\n"}
{"id": "20234138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20234138", "title": "Andreas Holmsen", "text": "Andreas Holmsen\n\nAndreas Holmsen (5 June 1906 – 20 February 1989) was a Norwegian historian. author and educator. He is most commonly associated with his textbook, \"Norges historie fra de eldste tider til 1660\", which is a standard introduction in the early Norwegian history.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania (now Oslo), Norway. He was a son of head teacher Andreas Holmsen (1857–1926) and Dagmar Berger (1865–1948). From 1933 he was married to Solveig Ingebrethsen, a daughter of newspaper editor Ingolf Ingebrethsen and sister of Arne Jostein Ingebrethsen, but the marriage was dissolved. In 1961 he married ethnologist. Rigmor Frimannslund (1911-2006). They resided at Vøyenenga. He died in February 1989 in Bærum.\nHolmsen graduated from the University of Oslo (Cand. Philol. 1931). Andreas Holmsen was a consultant in history in the Institute of Economics at the University of Oslo from 1934 to 1940. He was a professor of history at the university from 1955 to 1975. During the course of his career, Holmsen wrote several books and numerous articles in addition to delivering a number of scientific papers. His work principally concerned Norwegian socioeconomic and social history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "672766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672766", "title": "Bangladesh Liberation War", "text": "Bangladesh Liberation War\n\nThe Bangladesh Liberation War ( '), also known as the Bangladesh War of Independence, or simply the Liberation War in Bangladesh, was a revolution and armed conflict sparked by the rise of the Bengali nationalist and self-determination movement in what was then East Pakistan during the 1971 Bangladesh genocide. It resulted in the independence of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. The war began after the Pakistani military junta based in West Pakistan launched Operation Searchlight against the people of East Pakistan on the night of 25 March 1971. It pursued the systematic elimination of nationalist Bengali civilians, students, intelligentsia, religious minorities and armed personnel. The junta annulled the results of the 1970 elections and arrested Prime minister-designate Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. The war ended on 16 December 1971 after West Pakistan surrendered.\n\nRural and urban areas across East Pakistan saw extensive military operations and air strikes to suppress the tide of civil disobedience that formed following the 1970 election stalemate. The Pakistan Army, which had the backing of Islamists, created radical religious militias – the Razakars, Al-Badr and Al-Shams – to assist it during raids on the local populace. Urdu-speaking Biharis in Bangladesh (ethnic minority) were also in support of Pakistani military. Members of the Pakistani military and supporting militias engaged in mass murder, deportation and genocidal rape. The capital Dhaka was the scene of numerous massacres, including the Operation Searchlight and Dhaka University massacre. An estimated 10 million Bengali refugees fled to neighboring India, while 30 million were internally displaced. Sectarian violence broke out between Bengalis and Urdu-speaking immigrants. An academic consensus prevails that the atrocities committed by the Pakistani military were a genocide.\n\nThe Bangladeshi Declaration of Independence was proclaimed from Chittagong by members of the Mukti Bahini – the national liberation army formed by Bengali military, paramilitary and civilians. The East Bengal Regiment and the East Pakistan Rifles played a crucial role in the resistance. Led by General M. A. G. Osmani and eleven sector commanders, the Bangladesh Forces waged a mass guerrilla war against the Pakistani military. They liberated numerous towns and cities in the initial months of the conflict. The Pakistan Army regained momentum in the monsoon. Bengali guerrillas carried out widespread sabotage, including Operation Jackpot against the Pakistan Navy. The nascent Bangladesh Air Force flew sorties against Pakistani military bases. By November, the Bangladesh forces restricted the Pakistani military to its barracks during the night. They secured control of most parts of the countryside.\n\nThe Provisional Government of Bangladesh was formed on 17 April 1971 in Mujibnagar and moved to Calcutta as a government in exile. Bengali members of the Pakistani civil, military and diplomatic corps defected to the Bangladeshi provisional government. Thousands of Bengali families were interned in West Pakistan, from where many escaped to Afghanistan. Bengali cultural activists operated the clandestine Free Bengal Radio Station. The plight of millions of war-ravaged Bengali civilians caused worldwide outrage and alarm. The Indian state led by Indira Gandhi provided substantial diplomatic, economic and military support to Bangladeshi nationalists. British, Indian and American musicians organised the world's first benefit concert in New York City to support the Bangladeshi people. Senator Ted Kennedy in the United States led a congressional campaign for an end to Pakistani military persecution; while US diplomats in East Pakistan strongly dissented with the Nixon administration's close ties to the Pakistani military dictator Yahya Khan.\n\nIndia joined the war on 3 December 1971, after Pakistan launched preemptive air strikes on North India. The subsequent Indo-Pakistani War witnessed engagements on two war fronts. With air supremacy achieved in the eastern theatre and the rapid advance of the Allied Forces of Bangladesh and India, Pakistan surrendered in Dacca on 16 December 1971.\n\nThe war changed the geopolitical landscape of South Asia, with the emergence of Bangladesh as the seventh-most populous country in the world. Due to complex regional alliances, the war was a major episode in Cold War tensions involving the United States, the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China. The majority of member states in the United Nations recognised Bangladesh as a sovereign nation in 1972.\n\nPrior to the Partition of British India, the Lahore Resolution initially envisaged separate Muslim-majority states in the eastern and northwestern zones of British India. A proposal for an independent United Bengal was mooted by Prime Minister Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy in 1946, but was opposed by the colonial authorities. The East Pakistan Renaissance Society advocated the creation of a sovereign state in eastern British India. Eventually, political negotiations led, in August 1947, to the official birth of two states, Pakistan and India, giving presumably permanent homes for Muslims and Hindus respectively following the departure of the British. The Dominion of Pakistan comprised two geographically and culturally separate areas to the east and the west with India in between. The western zone was popularly (and for a period, also officially) termed West Pakistan and the eastern zone (modern-day Bangladesh) was initially termed East Bengal and later, East Pakistan. Although the population of the two zones was close to equal, political power was concentrated in West Pakistan and it was widely perceived that East Pakistan was being exploited economically, leading to many grievances. Administration of two discontinuous territories was also seen as a challenge. On 25 March 1971, after an election won by an East Pakistani political party (the Awami League) was ignored by the ruling (West Pakistani) establishment, rising political discontent and cultural nationalism in East Pakistan was met by brutal suppressive force from the ruling elite of the West Pakistan establishment, in what came to be termed Operation Searchlight. The violent crackdown by the Pakistan Army led to Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman declaring East Pakistan's independence as the state of Bangladesh on 26 March 1971. Most Bengalis threw their support behind this move although Islamists and Biharis opposed this and sided with the Pakistan Army instead. Pakistani President Agha Muhammad Yahya Khan ordered the Pakistani military to restore the Pakistani government's authority, beginning the civil war. The war led to a sea of refugees (estimated at the time to be about 10 million) flooding into the eastern provinces of India. Facing a mounting humanitarian and economic crisis, India started actively aiding and organising the Bangladeshi resistance army known as the Mukti Bahini.\n\nIn 1948, Governor-General Muhammad Ali Jinnah declared that \"Urdu, and only Urdu\" would be the federal language of Pakistan. However, Urdu was historically prevalent only in the north, central, and western region of the subcontinent; whereas in East Bengal, the native language was Bengali, one of the two most easterly branches of the Indo-European languages. The Bengali-speaking people of Pakistan constituted over 30% of the country's population. The government stand was widely viewed as an attempt to suppress the culture of the eastern wing. The people of East Bengal demanded that their language be given federal status alongside Urdu and English. The Language Movement began in 1948, as civil society protested the removal of the Bengali script from currency and stamps, which were in place since the British Raj. The movement reached its climax in 1952, when on 21 February, the police fired on protesting students and civilians, causing several deaths. The day is revered in Bangladesh as the Language Movement Day. Later, in memory of the deaths in 1952, UNESCO declared 21 February as International Mother Language Day in November 1999.\n\nAlthough East Pakistan had a larger population, West Pakistan dominated the divided country politically and received more money from the common budget.\n\nBengalis were under-represented in the Pakistan military. Officers of Bengali origin in the different wings of the armed forces made up just 5% of overall force by 1965; of these, only a few were in command positions, with the majority in technical or administrative posts. West Pakistanis believed that Bengalis were not \"martially inclined\" unlike Pashtuns and Punjabis; the \"Martial races\" notion was dismissed as ridiculous and humiliating by Bengalis. Moreover, despite huge defence spending, East Pakistan received none of the benefits, such as contracts, purchasing and military support jobs. The Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 over Kashmir also highlighted the sense of military insecurity among Bengalis, as only an under-strength infantry division and 15 combat aircraft without tank support were in East Pakistan to thwart any Indian retaliations during the conflict.\n\nThe only common bond between the two Pakistani wings was religion. But there were differences even in religious practices. Bengali Muslims tended to be less conservative in religious zeal, and had come to accept their Hindu minority and neighbours despite some communal clashes. Many Bengali Muslims strongly objected to the Islamist paradigm imposed by the Pakistani state. Most members of West Pakistan's ruling elite also belonged to a liberal society, yet understood a common faith as the mobilising factor behind Pakistan's creation and the subsuming of Pakistan's multiple identities into one.\n\nCultural and linguistic differences between the two wings outweighed any religious unity. The Bengalis were very proud of their culture and language which, with its Eastern Nagari script and Pali vocabulary, was unacceptable to the West Pakistani elite, who considered it to smack of Hindu culture.\n\nThe Bangladeshi liberation struggle against Pakistan was led by secular leaders. With this reality and the feeling of Islamic solidarity in the background, Islamists in East Pakistan viewed Bengali nationalism as unacceptable and instead sided with the Pakistani Army's efforts to crush the Bengali independence movement. Secularists hailed the Bangladeshi victory as the triumph of secular Bengali nationalism over religion-centred Pakistani nationalism.\n\nMost of the politically-active ulama of East Pakistan either remained neutral or sided with the Pakistani state, since they perceived the break-up of Pakistan as a loss for Islam.\n\nAlthough East Pakistan accounted for a slight majority of the country's population, political power remained in the hands of West Pakistanis. Since a straightforward system of representation based on population would have concentrated political power in East Pakistan, the West Pakistani establishment came up with the \"One Unit\" scheme, where all of West Pakistan was considered one province. This was solely to counterbalance the East wing's votes.\n\nAfter the assassination of Liaquat Ali Khan, Pakistan's first prime minister, in 1951, political power began to devolve to the new President of Pakistan, which replaced the office of Governor General when Pakistan became a republic, and, eventually, the military. The nominal elected chief executive, the Prime Minister, was frequently sacked by the establishment, acting through the President.\n\nThe East Pakistanis observed that the West Pakistani establishment would swiftly depose any East Pakistanis elected Prime Minister of Pakistan, such as Khawaja Nazimuddin, Mohammad Ali Bogra, or Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy. Their suspicions were further aggravated by the military dictatorships of Ayub Khan (27 October 1958 – 25 March 1969) and Yahya Khan (25 March 1969 – 20 December 1971), both West Pakistanis. The situation reached a climax in 1970, when the Bangladesh Awami League, the largest East Pakistani political party, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, won a landslide victory in the national elections. The party won 167 of the 169 seats allotted to East Pakistan, and thus a majority of the 313 seats in the National Assembly. This gave the Awami League the constitutional right to form a government. However, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto (a former Foreign Minister), the leader of the Pakistan Peoples Party, refused to allow Rahman to become the Prime Minister of Pakistan. Instead, he proposed the idea of having two Prime Ministers, one for each wing. The proposal elicited outrage in the east wing, already chafing under the other constitutional innovation, the \"One Unit scheme\". Bhutto also refused to accept Rahman's Six Points. On 3 March 1971, the two leaders of the two wings along with the President General Yahya Khan met in Dacca to decide the fate of the country. After their discussions yielded no satisfactory results, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman called for a nationwide strike. Bhutto feared a civil war, therefore, he sent his trusted companion, Mubashir Hassan. A message was conveyed, and Rahman decided to meet Bhutto. Upon his arrival, Rahman met with Bhutto and both agreed to form a coalition government with Rahman as Premier and Bhutto as President. However, the military was unaware of these developments, and Bhutto increased his pressure on Rahman to reach a decision.\n\nOn 7 March 1971, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman (soon to be the prime minister) delivered a speech at the Racecourse Ground (now called the Suhrawardy Udyan). In this speech he mentioned a further four-point condition to consider at the National Assembly Meeting on 25 March:\n\nHe urged his people to turn every house into a fort of resistance. He closed his speech saying, \"Our struggle is for our freedom. Our struggle is for our independence.\" This speech is considered the main event that inspired the nation to fight for its independence. General Tikka Khan was flown into Dacca to become Governor of East Bengal. East-Pakistani judges, including Justice Siddique, refused to swear him in.\n\nBetween 10 and 13 March, Pakistan International Airlines cancelled all their international routes to urgently fly \"government passengers\" to Dacca. These \"government passengers\" were almost all Pakistani soldiers in civilian dress. MV \"Swat\", a ship of the Pakistan Navy carrying ammunition and soldiers, was harboured in Chittagong Port, but the Bengali workers and sailors at the port refused to unload the ship. A unit of East Pakistan Rifles refused to obey commands to fire on the Bengali demonstrators, beginning a mutiny among the Bengali soldiers.\n\nThe 1970 Bhola cyclone made landfall on the East Pakistan coastline during the evening of 12 November, around the same time as a local high tide, killing an estimated 300,000 to 500,000 people. Though the exact death toll is not known, it is considered the deadliest tropical cyclone on record. A week after the landfall, President Khan conceded that his government had made \"slips\" and \"mistakes\" in its handling of the relief efforts due to a lack of understanding of the magnitude of the disaster.\n\nA statement released by eleven political leaders in East Pakistan ten days after the cyclone hit charged the government with \"gross neglect, callous and utter indifference\". They also accused the president of playing down the magnitude of the problem in news coverage. On 19 November, students held a march in Dacca protesting the slowness of the government's response. Abdul Hamid Khan Bhashani addressed a rally of 50,000 people on 24 November, where he accused the president of inefficiency and demanded his resignation.\n\nAs the conflict between East and West Pakistan developed in March, the Dacca offices of the two government organisations directly involved in relief efforts were closed for at least two weeks, first by a general strike and then by a ban on government work in East Pakistan by the Awami League. With this increase in tension, foreign personnel were evacuated over fears of violence. Relief work continued in the field, but long-term planning was curtailed. This conflict widened into the Bangladesh Liberation War in December and concluded with the creation of Bangladesh. This was one of the first times that a natural event helped trigger a civil war.\n\nA planned military pacification carried out by the Pakistan Army – codenamed \"Operation Searchlight\" – started on 25 March 1971 to curb the Bengali independence movement by taking control of the major cities on 26 March, and then eliminating all opposition, political or military, within one month. The Pakistani state claimed to justify starting Operation Searchlight on the basis of anti-Bihari violence by Bengalis in early March.\n\nBefore the beginning of the operation, all foreign journalists were systematically deported from East Pakistan.\n\nThe main phase of Operation Searchlight ended with the fall of the last major town in Bengali hands in mid-May. The operation also began the 1971 Bangladesh genocide. These systematic killings served only to enrage the Bengalis, which ultimately resulted in the secession of East Pakistan later in the same year. Bangladeshi media and reference books in English have published casualty figures which vary greatly, from 5,000–35,000 in Dacca, and 200,000–3,000,000 for Bangladesh as a whole, although independent researchers, including the British Medical Journal, have put forward the figure ranging from between 125,000 and 505,000. American political scientist Rudolph Rummel puts total deaths at 1.5 million. The atrocities have been referred to as acts of genocide.\n\nAccording to the \"Asia Times\",\n\nAt a meeting of the military top brass, Yahya Khan declared: \"Kill 3 million of them and the rest will eat out of our hands.\" Accordingly, on the night of 25 March, the Pakistani Army launched \"Operation Searchlight\" to \"crush\" Bengali resistance in which Bengali members of military services were disarmed and killed, students and the intelligentsia systematically liquidated and able-bodied Bengali males just picked up and gunned down.\n\nAlthough the violence focused on the provincial capital, Dacca, it also affected all parts of East Pakistan. Residential halls of the University of Dacca were particularly targeted. The only Hindu residential hall – Jagannath Hall – was destroyed by the Pakistani armed forces, and an estimated 600 to 700 of its residents were murdered. The Pakistani army denied any cold blooded killings at the university, though the Hamoodur Rahman Commission in Pakistan concluded that overwhelming force was used at the university. This fact, and the massacre at Jagannath Hall and nearby student dormitories of Dacca University, are corroborated by a videotape secretly filmed by Professor Nurul Ula of the East Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology, whose residence was directly opposite the student dormitories.\n\nThe scale of the atrocities was first made clear in the West when Anthony Mascarenhas, a Pakistani journalist who had been sent to the province by the military authorities to write a story favourable to Pakistan's actions, instead fled to the United Kingdom and, on 13 June 1971, published an article in \"The Sunday Times\" describing the systematic killings by the military. The BBC wrote: \"There is little doubt that Mascarenhas' reportage played its part in ending the war. It helped turn world opinion against Pakistan and encouraged India to play a decisive role\", with Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi herself stating that Mascarenhas' article has led her \"to prepare the ground for India's armed intervention\".\n\nHindu areas suffered particularly heavy blows. By midnight, Dacca was burning, especially the Hindu-dominated eastern part of the city. \"Time\" magazine reported on 2 August 1971, \"The Hindus, who account for three-fourths of the refugees and a majority of the dead, have borne the brunt of the Pakistani military hatred.\"\n\nSheikh Mujibur Rahman was arrested by the Pakistani Army. Yahya Khan appointed Brigadier (later General) Rahimuddin Khan to preside over a special tribunal prosecuting Rahman with multiple charges. The tribunal's sentence was never made public, but Yahya caused the verdict to be held in abeyance in any case. Other Awami League leaders were arrested as well, while a few fled Dacca to avoid arrest. The Awami League was banned by General Yahya Khan.\n\nThe violence unleashed by the Pakistani forces on 25 March 1971 proved the last straw to the efforts to negotiate a settlement. Following these outrages, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman signed an official declaration that read:\n\nToday Bangladesh is a sovereign and independent country. On Thursday night, West Pakistani armed forces suddenly attacked the police barracks at Razarbagh and the EPR headquarters at Pilkhana in Dacca. Many innocent and unarmed have been killed in Dhaka city and other places of Bangladesh. Violent clashes between E.P.R. and Police on the one hand and the armed forces of Pakistan on the other, are going on. The Bengalis are fighting the enemy with great courage for an independent Bangladesh. May Allah aid us in our fight for freedom. Joy Bangla [May Bangladesh be victorious].\n\nSheikh Mujib also called upon the people to resist the occupation forces through a radio message. Rahman was arrested on the night of 25–26 March 1971 at about 1:30 am (as per Radio Pakistan's news on 29 March 1971).\n\nA telegram containing the text of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's declaration reached some students in Chittagong. The message was translated to Bengali by Dr. Manjula Anwar. The students failed to secure permission from higher authorities to broadcast the message from the nearby Agrabad Station of Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation. However, the message was read several times by the independent Swadhin Bangla Betar Kendro Radio established by some rebel Bangali Radio workers in Kalurghat. Major Ziaur Rahman was requested to provide security of the station and he also read the Declaration on 27 March 1971. Major Ziaur Rahman broadcast announcement of the declaration of independence on behalf of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.\n\nThis is Swadhin Bangla Betar Kendra. I, Major Ziaur Rahman, at the direction of Bangobondhu Mujibur Rahman, hereby declare that Independent People's Republic of Bangladesh has been established. At his direction, I have taken the command as the temporary Head of the Republic. In the name of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, I call upon all Bengalees to rise against the attack by the West Pakistani Army. We shall fight to the last to free our motherland. Victory is, by the Grace of Allah, ours. Joy Bangla.\n\nThe Kalurghat Radio Station's transmission capability was limited, but the message was picked up by a Japanese ship in the Bay of Bengal. It was then re-transmitted by Radio Australia and later by the British Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nM. A. Hannan, an Awami League leader from Chittagong, is said to have made the first announcement of the declaration of independence over the radio on 26 March 1971.\n\n26 March 1971 is considered the official Independence Day of Bangladesh, and the name Bangladesh was in effect henceforth. In July 1971, Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi openly referred to the former East Pakistan as Bangladesh. Some Pakistani and Indian officials continued to use the name \"East Pakistan\" until 16 December 1971.\n\nAt first, resistance was spontaneous and disorganised, and was not expected to be prolonged. However, when the Pakistani Army cracked down upon the population, resistance grew. The Mukti Bahini became increasingly active. The Pakistani military sought to quell them, but increasing numbers of Bengali soldiers defected to this underground \"Bangladesh army\". These Bengali units slowly merged into the Mukti Bahini and bolstered their weaponry with supplies from India. Pakistan responded by airlifting in two infantry divisions and reorganising their forces. They also raised paramilitary forces of Razakars, Al-Badrs and Al-Shams (who were mostly members of the Muslim League and other Islamist groups), as well as other Bengalis who opposed independence, and Bihari Muslims who had settled during the time of partition.\n\nOn 17 April 1971, a provisional government was formed in Meherpur District in western Bangladesh bordering India with Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who was in prison in Pakistan, as President, Syed Nazrul Islam as Acting President, Tajuddin Ahmad as Prime Minister, and General Muhammad Ataul Ghani Osmani as Commander-in-Chief, Bangladesh Forces. As fighting grew between the occupation army and the Bengali Mukti Bahini, an estimated 10 million Bengalis sought refuge in the Indian states of Assam and West Bengal.\n\nBangladesh forces command was set up on 11 July, with Col. M. A. G. Osmani as commander-in-chief (C-in-C) with the status of Cabinet Minister, Lt. Col., Abdur Rabb as chief of Staff (COS), Group Captain A K Khandker as Deputy Chief of Staff (DCOS) and Major A R Chowdhury as Assistant Chief of Staff (ACOS).\n\nGeneral Osmani had differences of opinion with the Indian leadership regarding the role of the Mukti Bahini in the conflict. Indian leadership initially envisioned Bengali forces to be trained into a small elite guerrilla force of 8,000 members, led by the surviving East Bengal Regiment soldiers operating in small cells around Bangladesh to facilitate the eventual Indian intervention, but with the Bangladesh government in exile, General Osmani favoured a different strategy:\n\nBangladesh was divided into eleven sectors in July, each with a commander chosen from defected officers of the Pakistani army who joined the Mukti Bahini to conduct guerrilla operations and train fighters. Most of their training camps were situated near the border area and were operated with assistance from India. The 10th Sector was directly placed under the Commander in Chief (C-in-C) General M. A. G. Osmani and included the Naval Commandos and C-in-C's special force. Three brigades (11 Battalions) were raised for conventional warfare; a large guerrilla force (estimated at 100,000) was trained.\n\nThree brigades (eight infantry battalions and three artillery batteries) were put into action between July and September. During June and July, Mukti Bahini had regrouped across the border with Indian aid through Operation Jackpot and began sending 2000–5000 guerrillas across the border, the so-called Monsoon Offensive, which for various reasons (lack of proper training, supply shortage, lack of a proper support network inside Bangladesh) failed to achieve its objectives. Bengali regular forces also attacked BOPs in Mymensingh, Comilla and Sylhet, but the results were mixed. Pakistani authorities concluded that they had successfully contained the Monsoon Offensive, which proved a near-accurate observation.\n\nGuerrilla operations, which slackened during the training phase, picked up after August. Economic and military targets in Dacca were attacked. The major success story was Operation Jackpot, in which naval commandos mined and blew up berthed ships in Chittagong, Mongla, Narayanganj and Chandpur on 15 August 1971.\n\nBangladeshi conventional forces attacked border outposts. Kamalpur, Belonia and the Battle of Boyra are a few examples. 90 out of 370 BOPs fell to Bengali forces. Guerrilla attacks intensified, as did Pakistani and Razakar reprisals on civilian populations. Pakistani forces were reinforced by eight battalions from West Pakistan. The Bangladeshi independence fighters even managed to temporarily capture airstrips at Lalmonirhat and Shalutikar. Both of these were used for flying in supplies and arms from India. Pakistan sent another five battalions from West Pakistan as reinforcements.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had concluded that instead of taking in millions of refugees, India would be economically better to go to war against Pakistan. As early as 28 April 1971, the Indian Cabinet had asked General Manekshaw (Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee) to \"Go into East Pakistan\". Hostile relations in the past between India and Pakistan added to India's decision to intervene in Pakistan's civil war. Resultantly, the Indian government decided to support the creation of a separate state for ethnic Bengalis by supporting the Mukti Bahini. RAW helped to organise, train and arm these insurgents. Consequently, the Mukti Bahini succeeded in harassing Pakistani military in East Pakistan, thus creating conditions conducive for a full-scale Indian military intervention in early December.\n\nThe Pakistan Air Force (PAF) launched a pre-emptive strike on Indian Air Force bases on 3 December 1971. The attack was modelled on the Israeli Air Force's Operation Focus during the Six-Day War, and intended to neutralise the Indian Air Force planes on the ground. The strike was seen by India as an open act of unprovoked aggression, which marked the official start of the Indo-Pakistani War. As a response to the attack, both India and Pakistan formally acknowledged the \"existence of a state of war between the two countries\" even though neither government had formally issued a declaration of war.\n\nThree Indian corps were involved in the liberation of East Pakistan. They were supported by nearly three brigades of Mukti Bahini fighting alongside them, and many more who were fighting irregularly. That was far superior to the Pakistani army of three divisions. The Indians quickly overran the country, selectively engaging or bypassing heavily defended strongholds. Pakistani forces were unable to effectively counter the Indian attack, as they had been deployed in small units around the border to counter the guerrilla attacks by the Mukti Bahini. Unable to defend Dacca, the Pakistanis surrendered on 16 December 1971.\n\nThe Indian Air Force carried out several sorties against Pakistan, and within a week, IAF aircraft dominated the skies of East Pakistan. It achieved near-total air supremacy by the end of the first week, as the entire Pakistani air contingent in the east, PAF No.14 Squadron, was grounded because of Indian and Bangladesh airstrikes at Tejgaon, Kurmitolla, Lal Munir Hat and Shamsher Nagar. Sea Hawks from the carrier INS \"Vikrant\" also struck Chittagong, Barisal and Cox's Bazar, destroying the eastern wing of the Pakistan Navy and effectively blockading the East Pakistan ports, thereby cutting off any escape routes for the stranded Pakistani soldiers. The nascent Bangladesh Navy (comprising officers and sailors who defected from the Pakistani Navy) aided the Indians in the marine warfare, carrying out attacks, most notably Operation Jackpot.\n\nOn 16 December 1971, Lt. Gen Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, CO of Pakistan Army forces located in East Pakistan signed the Instrument of Surrender. At the time of surrender only a few countries had provided diplomatic recognition to the new nation. Over 93,000 Pakistani troops surrendered to the Indian forces & Bangladesh Liberation forces, making it the largest surrender since World War II, although the Pakistani Army had fought gallantly according to Indian Army Chief Sam Manekshaw. Bangladesh sought admission in the UN with most voting in its favour, but China vetoed this as Pakistan was its key ally. The United States, also a key ally of Pakistan, was one of the last nations to accord Bangladesh recognition. To ensure a smooth transition, in 1972 the Simla Agreement was signed between India and Pakistan. The treaty ensured that Pakistan recognised the independence of Bangladesh in exchange for the return of the Pakistani PoWs. India treated all the PoWs in strict accordance with the Geneva Convention, rule 1925. It released more than 93,000 Pakistani PoWs in five months. Further, as a gesture of goodwill, nearly 200 soldiers who were sought for war crimes by Bengalis were also pardoned by India. The accord also gave back of land that Indian troops had seized in West Pakistan during the war, though India retained a few strategic areas; most notably Kargil (which would in turn again be the focal point for a war between the two nations in 1999). This was done as a measure of promoting \"lasting peace\" and was acknowledged by many observers as a sign of maturity by India. However, some in India felt that the treaty had been too lenient to Bhutto, who had pleaded for leniency, arguing that the fragile democracy in Pakistan would crumble if the accord was perceived as being overly harsh by Pakistanis.\n\nReaction to the defeat and dismemberment of half the nation was a shocking loss to top military and civilians alike. Few had expected that they would lose the formal war in under a fortnight, and there was also unsettlement over what was perceived as a meek surrender of the army in East Pakistan. Yahya Khan's dictatorship collapsed and gave way to Bhutto, who took the opportunity to rise to power. General Niazi, who surrendered along with 93,000 troops, was viewed with suspicion and contempt upon his return to Pakistan. He was shunned and branded a traitor. The war also exposed the shortcomings of Pakistan's declared strategic doctrine that the \"defence of East Pakistan lay in West Pakistan\".\n\nDuring the war there were widespread killings and other atrocities – including the displacement of civilians in Bangladesh (East Pakistan at the time) and widespread violations of human rights began with the start of Operation Searchlight on 25 March 1971. Members of the Pakistani military and supporting Islamist militias from Jamaat e Islami killed an estimated 300,000 to 3,000,000 people and raped between 200,000 and 400,000 Bangladeshi women in a systematic campaign of genocidal rape. Some Islamic clerics issued fatwas (a ruling on a point of Islamic law) in support of raping Bengali women, especially Hindu women, as they considered the conflict a holy war. During the war, a fatwa in Pakistan declared that the Bengali freedom fighters were Hindus and that their women could be taken as \"the booty of war\".\n\nA large section of the intellectual community of Bangladesh were murdered, mostly by the Al-Shams and Al-Badr forces, at the instruction of the Pakistani Army. Just two days before the surrender, on 14 December 1971, Pakistan Army and Razakar militia (local collaborators) picked up at least 100 physicians, professors, writers and engineers in Dacca, and murdered them, leaving the dead bodies in a mass grave.\n\nMany mass graves have been discovered in Bangladesh. The first night of war on Bengalis, which is documented in telegrams from the American Consulate in Dacca to the United States State Department, saw indiscriminate killings of students of Dacca University and other civilians. Numerous women were tortured, raped and killed during the war; the exact numbers are not known and are a subject of debate. The widespread rape of Bangladeshi women led to birth of thousands of war babies. The Pakistan Army also kept numerous Bengali women as sex-slaves inside the Dacca Cantonment. Most of the girls were captured from Dacca University and private homes. There was significant sectarian violence not only perpetrated and encouraged by the Pakistani army, but also by Bengali nationalists against non-Bengali minorities, especially Biharis. In June 1971, Bihari representatives stated that 500,000 Biharis were killed by Bengalis. R.J. Rummel gives a prudent estimate of 150,000 killed.\n\nOn 16 December 2002, the George Washington University's National Security Archive published a collection of declassified documents, consisting mostly of communications between US embassy officials and United States Information Service centres in Dacca and India, and officials in Washington, D.C. These documents show that US officials working in diplomatic institutions within Bangladesh used the terms \"selective genocide\" and \"genocide\" (see The Blood Telegram) for information on events they had knowledge of at the time. \"Genocide\" is the term that is still used to describe the event in almost every major publication and newspaper in Bangladesh, although in Pakistan, the accusations against Pakistani forces continue to be disputed.\n\nFollowing Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's declaration of independence in March 1971, a worldwide campaign was undertaken by the Provisional Government of Bangladesh to drum up political support for the independence of East Pakistan as well as humanitarian support for the Bengali people.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi provided extensive diplomatic and political support to the Bangladesh movement. She toured many countries in a bid to create awareness of the Pakistani atrocities against Bengalis. This effort was to prove vital later during the war, in framing the world's context of the war and to justify military action by India. Also, following Pakistan's defeat, it ensured prompt recognition of the newly independent state of Bangladesh.\n\nThough the United Nations condemned the human rights violations during and following Operation Searchlight, it failed to defuse the situation politically before the start of the war.\n\nFollowing India's entry into the war, Pakistan, fearing certain defeat, made urgent appeals to the United Nations to intervene and force India to agree to a ceasefire. The UN Security Council assembled on 4 December 1971 to discuss the hostilities in South Asia. After lengthy discussions on 7 December, the United States made a resolution for \"immediate cease-fire and withdrawal of troops\". While supported by the majority, the USSR vetoed the resolution twice. In light of the Pakistani atrocities against Bengalis, the United Kingdom and France abstained on the resolution.\n\nOn 12 December, with Pakistan facing imminent defeat, the United States requested that the Security Council be reconvened. Pakistan's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, was rushed to New York City to make the case for a resolution on the cease fire. The council continued deliberations for four days. By the time proposals were finalised, Pakistan's forces in the East had surrendered and the war had ended, making the measures merely academic. Bhutto, frustrated by the failure of the resolution and the inaction of the United Nations, ripped up his speech and left the council.\n\nMost UN member nations were quick to recognise Bangladesh within months of its independence.\n\nAs the Bangladesh Liberation War approached the defeat of the Pakistan Army, the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan became the first state in the world to recognise the newly independent country on 6 December 1971. Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the first President of Bangladesh visited Bhutan to attend the coronation of Jigme Singye Wangchuck, the fourth King of Bhutan in June 1974.\n\nThe US government stood by its old ally Pakistan both politically and materially. US President Richard Nixon and his National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger feared Soviet expansion into South and Southeast Asia. Pakistan was a close ally of the People's Republic of China, with whom Nixon had been negotiating a \"rapprochement\" and which he intended to visit in February 1972. Nixon feared that an Indian invasion of West Pakistan would mean total Soviet domination of the region, and that it would seriously undermine the global position of the United States and the regional position of America's new tacit ally, China. To demonstrate to China the \"bona fides\" of the United States as an ally, and in direct violation of the US Congress-imposed sanctions on Pakistan, Nixon sent military supplies to Pakistan and routed them through Jordan and Iran, while also encouraging China to increase its arms supplies to Pakistan. The Nixon administration also ignored reports it received of the genocidal activities of the Pakistani Army in East Pakistan, most notably the Blood telegram.\n\nNixon denied getting involved in the situation, saying that it was an internal matter of Pakistan, but when Pakistan's defeat seemed certain, Nixon sent the aircraft carrier USS \"Enterprise\" to the Bay of Bengal, a move deemed by the Indians as a nuclear threat. \"Enterprise\" arrived on station on 11 December 1971. On 6 and 13 December, the Soviet Navy dispatched two groups of ships, armed with nuclear missiles, from Vladivostok; they trailed US Task Force 74 in the Indian Ocean from 18 December until 7 January 1972.\nThe Soviet Union supported Bangladesh and Indian armies, as well as the Mukti Bahini during the war, recognising that the independence of Bangladesh would weaken the position of its rivals – the United States and China. It gave assurances to India that if a confrontation with the United States or China developed, the USSR would take countermeasures. This was enshrined in the Indo-Soviet friendship treaty signed in August 1971. The Soviets also sent a nuclear submarine to ward off the threat posed by USS \"Enterprise\" in the Indian Ocean.\n\nAt the end of the war, the Warsaw Pact countries were among the first to recognise Bangladesh. The Soviet Union accorded recognition to Bangladesh on 25 January 1972. The United States delayed recognition for some months, before according it on 8 April 1972.\n\nAs a long-standing ally of Pakistan, the People's Republic of China reacted with alarm to the evolving situation in East Pakistan and the prospect of India invading West Pakistan and Pakistani-controlled Kashmir. Believing that just such an Indian attack was imminent, Nixon encouraged China to mobilise its armed forces along its border with India to discourage it. The Chinese did not, however, respond to this encouragement, because unlike the 1962 Sino-Indian War when India was caught entirely unaware, this time the Indian Army was prepared and had deployed eight mountain divisions to the Sino-Indian border to guard against such an eventuality. China instead threw its weight behind demands for an immediate ceasefire.\n\nWhen Bangladesh applied for membership to the United Nations in 1972, China vetoed their application because two United Nations resolutions regarding the repatriation of Pakistani prisoners of war and civilians had not yet been implemented. China was also among the last countries to recognise independent Bangladesh, refusing to do so until 31 August 1975.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49657945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49657945", "title": "Bernard K. Mbenga", "text": "Bernard K. Mbenga\n\nBernard K. Mbenga is a historian at North-West University, South Africa, where he is a specialist in the history of the north-west of South Africa. He was one of the editors of the first volume of \"The Cambridge History of South Africa\".\n\nBernard Mbenga is Luvale-speaking and was born in Lukulu District in the Western Province of Zambia where he had his elementary, primary and secondary education from 1959 to 1970. He then went to Nkrumah Teachers' College in Kabwe and later the University of Zambia where he graduated with a BA with Education degree in 1977, majoring in History and English. He has a master's degree in African history from the University of York. He received his PhD from the University of South Africa for a thesis titled, \"The Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela in the Pilanesberg District of the Western Transvaal from 1899 to 1931\".\n\nMbenga joined North-West University in September 1987. He became an associate professor of history in 2005 and subsequently, a Full Professor.\n\nBernard Mbenga has a knowledge of the history and anthropology of the Setswana-speaking peoples, in particular the Bakgatla ba Kgafela of Rustenburg District. He has a PhD degree from the University of South Africa on the history of the Bakgatla ba Kgafela of the Pilanesberg. He has jointly authored (with Andrew Manson) a book entitled '\"People of the Dew\": The Bafokeng of the Phokeng-Rustenburg District of South Africa, from Early Times to 2000', (Jacana Press, Cape Town, 2010). He has published articles about various aspects of Batswana history in the Journal of Southern Africa Studies and the African Historical Review, The South African Historical Journal. He is on the editorial boards of two History journals, New Contree and Yesterday and Today, both based on the Vaal Campus of North West University. He is a past member of the editorial boards of the Journal of African History (2002 – 2007) (published by Cambridge University Press, England) and the South African Historical Journal (1999 – 2009). \nHe was also the author with Hermann Giliomee of \"New history of South Africa\" (2007). With Carolyn Hamilton and Robert Ross he was the editor of the first volume of \"The Cambridge History of South Africa\", covering the period up to 1885. He co-wrote the chapters \"The production of preindustrial South African history\" (with Carolyn Hamilton and Robert Ross) and \"From colonial hegemonies to imperial conquest, 1840–1880\" (with Patrick Harries).\n\nIn 2014, he co-published (with Andrew Manson) a book called \"Land, Chiefs, Mining: South Africa’s North West Province Since 1840\" (Wits University Press, Johannesburg).\n\nHis latest book, co-authored with Andrew Manson and Arianna Lissoni, \"Khongolose, A Short History of the ANC in the North West Province\" was published by Unisa Press, Pretoria, in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "31382810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31382810", "title": "Big History Project", "text": "Big History Project\n\nThe Big History Project was started by Bill Gates and David Christian to enable the global teaching of the subject of Big History, which is described as \"the attempt to understand, in a unified way, the history of Cosmos, Earth, Life and Humanity.\" It is a course that covers history from the Big Bang through to the present in an interdisciplinary way. The Big History Project “is dedicated to fostering a greater love and capacity for learning among high school students”.\n\nBill Gates became interested in big history when he heard a series of -98 lectures by Christian published by The Teaching Company under the name \"Big History: The Big Bang, Life on Earth, and the Rise of Humanity\". For Gates, “he really blew me away. Here’s a guy who’s read across the sciences, humanities, and social sciences and brought it together in a single framework. It made me wish that I could have taken big history when I was young, because it would have given me a way to think about all of the school work and reading that followed. In particular, it really put the sciences in an interesting historical context and explained how they apply to a lot of contemporary concerns”.\n\nAfter Gates and Christian met to discuss the lectures, the genesis of the Big History Project occurred. They founded the project, and developed a team to achieve their stated goal, “to get big history taught to as many students around the world as possible”.\n\nTo achieve that goal Big History Project was launched at the 2011 TED conference at Long Beach, California on 2 March 2011. David Christian presented an 18-minute lecture outlining big history and the intention of creating a global online delivery of a classroom-tested course aimed at 9th grade students. His presentation was part of the Bill Gates-curated “Knowledge Revolution” section of the conference. Christian's TED talk has been posted, and the link can be found below. The Big History Project website has also made available pdf versions of some of the timelines that support Christian's TED presentation. That link can also be found below.\n\nThe academic advisers are:\nThe Seattle-based consultancy team Intentional Futures works directly with the Project's founders on strategy, course content, software design, marketing and school implementation. The International Big History Association is also listed as a partner in the project.\n\nSeven schools were selected for the initial classroom pilot phase of the project. In the United States, San Diego High School of International Studies (California); The Rivers School (Massachusetts); Northville High School (Michigan); Greenhills High School (Michigan) and Lakeside School (Washington) taught Big History in the 2011/12 school year. In Australia, Narara Valley High School in New South Wales and Nossal High School in Victoria taught the course in their 2012 school year.\nIn 2011 the Big History Project team held conferences in Sydney and Seattle with the teachers from the schools. These conferences established a framework for developing a school-based curriculum for big history, and outlined a structure for planning specific lessons to be trialled in classrooms in 2011/12. Teachers are developing lessons for their specific schools, and these lessons will be pooled as part of a developing resource base to facilitate the teaching of the course internationally.\n\nA second phase of piloting in schools will be utilized in 2012/13 before the release of a free curriculum online in 2013. Participating schools will “have the opportunity to pioneer the curriculum and will play key roles in evaluating and improving the course”.\n\nIn Australia 26 schools were undertaking the course in 2013, with more due to take it up in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "52657457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52657457", "title": "Bo Huldt", "text": "Bo Huldt\n\nBo Huldt (24 April 1941 – 26 May 2015), was a Swedish historian and expert in foreign policy. He was director of the International Institute for Strategic Studies from 1992 to 1993. During the years 1994–2001 he was employed at the National Defence University, where in 1996 he was made professor in security and strategy. For 1997 to 1998 he was at the National Defence College and director of the Institute for Higher National Defence Education.\n"}
{"id": "21128831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21128831", "title": "Counterintelligence state", "text": "Counterintelligence state\n\nCounterintelligence state (sometimes also called intelligence state, securocracy or spookocracy) is a state where the state security service penetrates and permeates all societal institutions, including the military. The term has been applied by historians and political commentators to the former Soviet Union, the former German Democratic Republic, Cuba after the 1959 revolution, Iraq under Saddam Hussein, post-Soviet Russia under Vladimir Putin and the United States of America, especially after the Global surveillance disclosures.\n\nAccording to one definition, \"The counterintelligence state is characterized by the presence of a large, elite force acting as a watchdog of a security defined as broadly that the state must maintain an enormous vigilance and enforcement apparatus... This apparatus is not accountable to the public and enjoys immense police powers... Whether the civilian government is able to control the security bodies is an open question; indeed \"the civilian government is so penetrated by the apparatus that there is no clear distinction between the two.\"\"\n\nThere was a massive security apparatus in the Soviet Union to prevent any opposition, and \"every facet of daily life fell into the KGB's domain.\"\n\nUndercover staff of the KGB included three major categories:\n\nThe \"active reserve\" included KGB officers with a military rank who worked undercover. \"Trusted contacts\" were high placed civilians who collaborated with the KGB without signing any official working agreements, such as directors of personnel departments at various institutions, academics, deans, or writers and actors. Informers were citizens secretly recruited by the KGB, sometimes using forceful recruitment methods, such as blackmail. The precise number of people from various categories remains unknown, but one of the estimates was 11 million \"informers\" in the Soviet Union, or one out of every eighteen adult citizens.\n\nA \"Law on Foreign Intelligence\" adopted in August 1992 provided conditions for penetration by former KGB officers to all levels of the government and economy, since it stipulated that \"career personnel may occupy positions in ministries, departments, establishments, enterprises and organizations in accordance with the requirements of this law without compromising their association with foreign intelligence agencies.\" According to a Russian banker, \"All big companies have to put people from the security services on the board of directors... and we know that when Lubyanka calls, they have to answer them.\" A current FSB colonel explained that \"We must make sure that companies don't make decisions that are not in the interest of the state\".\n\nOlga Kryshtanovskaya, director of the Moscow-based Center for the Study of Elites, has found in the beginning of the 2000s that up to 78% of 1,016 leading political figures in post-Soviet Russia have served previously in organizations affiliated with the KGB or FSB. She said: \"If in the Soviet period and the first post-Soviet period, the KGB and FSB people were mainly involved in security issues, now half are still involved in security but the other half are involved in business, political parties, NGOs, regional governments, even culture... They started to use all political institutions.\"\n\n\"Under Russian Federation President and former career foreign intelligence officer Vladimir Putin, an 'FSB State' composed of chekists has been established and is consolidating its hold on the country. Its closest partners are organized criminals. In a world marked by a globalized economy and information infrastructure, and with transnational terrorism groups utilizing all available means to achieve their goals and further their interests, Russian intelligence collaboration with these elements is potentially disastrous.\", said politologist Julie Anderson.\n\nHistorian Yuri Felshtinsky compared the takeover of Russian state by siloviks with an imaginary scenario of Gestapo coming to power in Germany after World War II. He noted a fundamental difference between the secret police and ordinary political parties, even totalitarian ones, such as the Soviet Communist Party. The Russian secret police organizations use various violent active measures. Hence, according to Felstinsky, they killed Alexander Litvinenko and directed Russian apartment bombings and other terrorism acts in Russia to frighten the civilian population and achieve their political objectives.\n\nFormer KGB officer Konstantin Preobrazhenskiy shares similar ideas. When asked \"How many people in Russia work in FSB?\", he replied: \"Whole country. FSB owns everything, including Russian Army and even own Church, the Russian Orthodox Church... Putin managed to create new social system in Russia\" .\n\n\"Vladimir Putin's Russia is a new phenomenon in Europe: a state defined and dominated by former and active-duty security and intelligence officers. Not even Fascist Italy, Nazi Germany, or the Soviet Union – all undoubtedly much worse creations than Putins government – were as top-heavy with intelligence talent\", said intelligence expert Marc Gerecht.\n\nThe former NSA official William Binney describes the methods of the National Security Agency as Gestapo and Stasi-like and characterizes the NSA as corrupt and power-hungry. He takes the line that the USA is not far away from becoming to a totalitarian state.\n\n"}
{"id": "53644333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53644333", "title": "Didi-Niko Dadiani", "text": "Didi-Niko Dadiani\n\nNikoloz \"Didi-Niko\" Dadiani (; 1764 – 25 February 1834) was a Georgian nobleman of the House of Dadiani and a historian. He played a prominent role in the government of the Principality of Mingrelia, which became an autonomous subject of the Russian Empire in 1804. Dadiani's principal historical work is \"The History of the Georgians\", whose final chapters are an indispensable source for the early modern history of western Georgia. Nikoloz Dadiani, his name hypocorized to Niko, was named \"didi\", Georgian for \"big\", to distinguish him from his younger namesakes in the Dadiani family.\n\nNikoloz Dadiani was a son of Giorgi Dadiani (died 1799), brother of Katsia II Dadiani, Prince of Mingrelia. His involvement in the politics and government of Mingrelia began in October 1804, when he became a member of the regency council for his underage relative, Levan V Dadiani, a grandson of Katsia II. The council was presided by Levan's mother, the dowager-princess Nino. A few months earlier, Mingrelia had become part of the Russian Empire as an autonomous principality. In 1805, Didi-Niko Dadini led a Mingrelian delegation to St. Petersburg sent to address the principality's territorial grievances with its neighbors. On his return, Dadiani found himself at odds with the dowager-princess, whom he accused of using the regency council to appease her own ambitions. After Levan V Dadiani became of age and Nino was sidelined from Mingrelia's government in 1811, Didi-Niko Dadiani's influence grew. The prince-regnant Levan had little interest in government affairs and day-to-day administrative routine and relied on Didi-Niko, who served as a chancellor (\"mdivanbegi\") for years and, between 1804 and 1811, composed a new government code, known as \"dasturlama\", to improve Mingrelia's governance.\n\nDidi-Niko Dadiani was a loyal subject to the Russian crown. As part of the Mingrelian forces (\"militia\"), he fought on the Russian side in the Russo-Turkish War (1806–1812), Russo-Persian War (1804–13), and Russo-Turkish War (1828–1829). He, further, aided the Russians in suppressing the western Georgian rebellions of 1810 and 1819–1820. He was made major-general and awarded the Order of St. Anna, First Class.\n\nDuring his years in government, Dadiani wrote his major historical work, \"The History of the Georgians\" (ქართველთ ცხოვრება, \"k'art'velt' ts'khovreba\"), which he completed in 1823. It is composed of three parts; the first two segments are based, respectively, on the medieval compendium, \"kartlis tskhovreba\", and the history by Prince Vakhushti. The final part is an original work, dealing mostly with the history of western Georgia between 1749 and 1823 and containing many valuable, otherwise unrecorded details. He also wrote a travelogue of his mission to Russia, which has not survived.\n\nDadiani died in 1834 and was buried at the Martvili Monastery. He was married twice; first, to Mariam née Eristavi of Guria and, then, after her death in 1802, Ekaterine Marshania from Abkhazia. He had seven children—two daughters and five sons. His descendants are still extant.\n"}
{"id": "99425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99425", "title": "Diodorus Siculus", "text": "Diodorus Siculus\n\nDiodorus Siculus (; \"Diodoros Sikeliotes\") ( 1st century BC) or Diodorus of Sicily was a Greek historian. He is known for writing the monumental universal history \"Bibliotheca historica\", much of which survives, between 60 and 30 BC. It is arranged in three parts. The first covers mythic history up to the destruction of Troy, arranged geographically, describing regions around the world from Egypt, India and Arabia to Greece and Europe. The second covers the Trojan War to the death of Alexander the Great. The third covers the period to about 60 BC. \"Bibliotheca\", meaning 'library', acknowledges that he was drawing on the work of many other authors.\n\nAccording to his own work, he was born at Agyrium in Sicily (now called Agira). With one exception, antiquity affords no further information about his life and doings beyond in his work. Only Jerome, in his \"Chronicon\" under the \"year of Abraham 1968\" (49 BC), writes, \"Diodorus of Sicily, a writer of Greek history, became illustrious\". However, his English translator, Charles Henry Oldfather, remarks on the \"striking coincidence\" that one of only two known Greek inscriptions from Agyrium (\"Inscriptiones Graecae\" XIV, 588) is the tombstone of one \"Diodorus, the son of Apollonius\".\n\nDiodorus' universal history, which he named \"Bibliotheca historica\" (, \"Historical Library\"), was immense and consisted of 40 books, of which 1–5 and 11–20 survive: fragments of the lost books are preserved in Photius and the excerpts of Constantine Porphyrogenitus.\n\nIt was divided into three sections. The first six books treated the mythic history of the non-Hellenic and Hellenic tribes to the destruction of Troy and are geographical in theme, and describe the history and culture of Ancient Egypt (book I), of Mesopotamia, India, Scythia, and Arabia (II), of North Africa (III), and of Greece and Europe (IV–VI).\n\nIn the next section (books VII–XVII), he recounts the history of the world from the Trojan War down to the death of Alexander the Great. The last section (books XVII to the end) concerns the historical events from the successors of Alexander down to either 60 BC or the beginning of Julius Caesar's Gallic Wars. (The end has been lost, so it is unclear whether Diodorus reached the beginning of the Gallic War as he promised at the beginning of his work or, as evidence suggests, old and tired from his labours he stopped short at 60 BC.) He selected the name \"Bibliotheca\" in acknowledgment that he was assembling a composite work from many sources. Identified authors on whose works he drew include Hecataeus of Abdera, Ctesias of Cnidus, Ephorus, Theopompus, Hieronymus of Cardia, Duris of Samos, Diyllus, Philistus, Timaeus, Polybius, and Posidonius.\n\nHis account of gold mining in Nubia in eastern Egypt is one of the earliest extant texts on the topic, and describes in vivid detail the use of slave labour in terrible working conditions. Pappus of Alexandria wrote a Commentary on Diodorus's \"Analemma\". The now lost \"Analemma\" applied geometrical constructions in a plane to solve some astronomy-related problems of spherical geometry. It contained, for example, a discussion of sundial theory.\n\nHe also gave an account of the Gauls:\n\"The Gauls are terrifying in aspect and their voices are deep and altogether harsh; when they meet together they converse with few words and in riddles, hinting darkly at things for the most part and using one word when they mean another; and they like to talk in superlatives, to the end that they may extol themselves and depreciate all other men. They are also boasters and threateners and are fond of pompous language, and yet they have sharp wits and are not without cleverness at learning.\" (Book 5)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2391433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2391433", "title": "Elizabeth Fox-Genovese", "text": "Elizabeth Fox-Genovese\n\nElizabeth Ann Fox-Genovese (May 28, 1941 – January 2, 2007) was an American historian best known for her works on women and society in the Antebellum South. A Marxist early on in her career, she later converted to Roman Catholicism and became a primary voice of the conservative women's movement. She was awarded the National Humanities Medal in 2003.\n\nElizabeth Ann Fox was born in Boston, Massachusetts. She was the daughter of Cornell professor Edward Whiting Fox, a specialist in the history of modern Europe, and Elizabeth Mary (née Simon) Fox, whose brother was real estate mogul Robert Simon. Her father was Protestant, of English, Scottish and Irish descent; her mother was Jewish, from a family that immigrated from Germany. Elizabeth Fox studied at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris in France and attended Bryn Mawr College, where in 1963 she received a BA in French and history. At Harvard University, she earned an MA in history in 1966 and a PhD in 1974.\n\nIn 1969 she married fellow historian Eugene D. Genovese and changed her surname to Fox-Genovese. They collaborated on some historical works in the course of their careers and had a professional partnership. In the 1970s they founded the journal, \"Marxist Perspectives,\" publishing the first issue in Spring 1978. Described as \"brilliant but short-lived\", it was published into the early 1980s. In 2012 \"Dissent\" magazine\nannounced plans to digitize issues of the journal in a collaboration for open access with the Brooklyn Institute for Social Research, and make it available online.\n\nAfter completing her PhD, Fox first taught at Binghamton University and The University of Rochester. In 1986 she was recruited as founding director for the Institute for Women's Studies at Emory University. At the Institute, she served as director and began the first doctoral program in Women's Studies in the US; she personally directed thirty-two doctoral dissertations. She also taught history as the Eleonore Raoul Professor of the Humanities.\n\nIn 1993 L. Virginia Gould, one of her former graduate students, named Fox-Genovese and Emory University as co-defendants in a sexual discrimination and harassment lawsuit. Emory settled the lawsuit out of court. Financial details were not released.\n\nFox-Genovese grew up in a household of secular intellectuals who were respectful of Christianity, but nonbelieving. For most of her adult life, she considered herself Christian only \"in the amorphous cultural sense of the word.\" Having \"thoroughly imbibed materialist philosophy,\" she inhabited \"a world that took it as a matter of faith that 'God is dead'.\" In 1995, however, Fox-Genovese publicly converted to Roman Catholicism, due in part to her deep unease about \"moral relativism\" (since she found \"a world in which each followed his or her moral compass\" neither rational nor viable). She said she was also reacting to the pride and self-centeredness that she had witnessed in the secular academy. Some observers regarded her reputation as a feminist as being at odds with her conversion, but she found it to be \"wholly consistent.\" She wrote, \"Sad as it may seem, my experience with radical, upscale feminism only reinforced my growing mistrust of individual pride.\"\n\nFox-Genovese died in 2007, aged 65, in Atlanta. She had lived with MS for 15 years. The following year, Eugene Genovese published a tribute to his wife, \"Miss Betsey: A Memoir of Marriage\".\n\nFox-Genovese's academic interests changed from French history to the history of women in the United States before the American Civil War. Virginia Shadron, assistant dean at Emory, later said that Fox-Genovese's \"Within the Plantation Household\" (1988) cemented her reputation as a scholar of women in the Old South. Contemporary reviews praised it; one described her work as bridging \"the gap between the study of individual identity and the economic and social milieu.\" Mechal Sobel of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"Elizabeth Fox-Genovese undertakes the enormous tasks of telling the life stories of the last generation of black and white women of the Old South, and of analyzing the meanings of these connected stories as a way of illuminating both Southern and women's history—tasks at which she succeeds brilliantly.\"\n\nThis book received the following awards:\n\nFox-Genovese also wrote scholarly and popular works on feminism. Through her writings, she alienated many feminists but attracted many women who may have considered themselves conservative feminists. Princeton University history professor Sean Wilentz said, \"She probably did more for the conservative women's movement than anyone... [Her] voice came from inside the academy and updated the ideas of the conservative women's movement. She was one of their most influential intellectual forces.\" Fox-Genovese reportedly had no patience with the cultural feminist trend of viewing women and men as possessing completely different values, and she criticized the idea that women's natural instincts and experience of oppression gave them a superior capacity for justice and mercy. For this, she had been labelled by Cathy Young as an \"antifeminist\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38011691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38011691", "title": "Frank Forrest Latta", "text": "Frank Forrest Latta\n\nFrank Forrest Latta (1892–1983), California oral historian and ethnographer of the Yokut people and historian of the early settlement of the San Joaquin Valley.\n\nFrank Forrest Latta was the son of Presbyterian minister Eli C. Latta and teacher Harmonia Campbell, born on September 18, 1892, in Stanislaus County, near Orestimba Creek. Latta lived most of his life in the San Joaquin Valley. His father and three other brothers had come to California from Arkansas during the California Gold Rush. His father and one brother remained there, one returned to Arkansas, one wrote he was returning home to Arkansas with $8,000 in gold, then disappeared without a trace.\n\nAs a young boy Latta worked on several ranches in the San Joaquin Valley and became interested in the stories of the early pioneers, and in 1906 began interviewing people and gathering research regarding early life and early farming in California. Latta also spent much time researching the Miller & Lux farming corporation and its founders Henry Miller and Charles Lux.\n\nTo support himself Frank F. Latta became a teacher. He taught drafting and carpentry at high schools in Gustine, Porterville, Shafter and Bakersfield, California from 1915 to 1945. In 1919, he married Jeanette Allen and they had four children. When not teaching Latta was traveling the San Joaquin Valley, interviewing pioneers and Native Americans, gathering artifacts articles or writing at home. He published a large number of articles in San Joaquin Valley newspapers during the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nIn the early 1920s he began interviewing surviving Yokuts and settlers acquainted with them. Among these was Thomas Jefferson Mayfield, (\"Uncle Jeff\"), the youngest son of a settler on the Kern River from Texas, William Mayfield. Uncle Jeff grew up in a Yokuts village, following the death of his mother. His story prompted Latta to write his story, first as a series of newspaper articles, then as a book \"Uncle Jeff's Story : a tale of a San Joaquin Valley pioneer and his life with the Yokuts Indians\" in 1929. First printed in 1936, \"California Indian Folklore\" was Frank Latta's first work that specifically focused on the Native Americans of the San Joaquin Valley, describing the culture of the many tribes of the Yokuts. Also in 1936 he published a small book \"El Camino Viejo á Los Angeles\", describing the route and history of El Camino Viejo, the old Spanish road and the settlements along it on the west side of the San Joaquin Valley, from Los Angeles to what is now Oakland. Born near were that road crossed Orestimba Creek, it was a route that he had traced on his trips through the valley and taken photos of many of its features and landmarks. In 1938, Latta was honored with the presidency of the League of Western Writers.\n\nLatta helped found the Kern County Museum in Bakersfield in 1941 where he worked both as a curator and as its director from 1945 until 1956. Latta also continued his research into the Yokuts. From this information gathered for more than a half-century, interviewing over 200 elderly Yokuts and a number of settlers, Latta compiled and published the Handbook of Yokuts Indians, in 1949. The first edition was published through the Kern County Museum in a first issue of only 500 copies. A revised and enlarged edition would be published by him in 1977.\n\nAlso in 1949, Latta published his book \"Black Gold In The Joaquin\", the story of the oil industry in the San Joaquin Valley in California, from the Indian usage of the oil, to the discoveries and the development of the extraction technology from the mid - 19th century to 1900.\n\nIn 1956 Latta moved to Santa Cruz, purchasing the Gazos Ranch in southern San Mateo County, formerly the Steele Ranch, south of Pescadero, California near Gazos Creek. He and his wife Jean intended to retire there and to turn the ranch into a \nhistorical museum to house his extensive collection of historical items he had collected \nover the years. He also intended to expand it into an 80-acre picnic and camping area \nstretching for a mile along the coast between Ano Nuevo Island and Pigeon Point with a realistic California Indian village and a pioneer California town. After going through official county procedures, Latta thought he was on his way to beginning his larger project, and made a public announcement of it, but then was stopped in the late 1950s. However he was able to establish the Rancho Gazos Historical Indian and Early Californian Museum.\n\nLate in his life he published a series of books from information he had gathered over many years. \"The Dalton Gang Days\" and the \"Saga of Rancho El Tejon\" were first published in 1976. \" Tailholt Tales,\" a much expanded version of Mayfield's memoir, was also published in that year, decades after his first efforts at correcting, commenting upon and filling out the original slim volume in the 1920s. \"Death Valley '49ers\" was first published in 1979, and \"Joaquín Murrieta and His Horse Gangs\", first published in 1980.\n\nFrank Forrest Latta died in Santa Cruz in May 8, 1983, and was buried at Hills Ferry Cemetery in Newman, California not far from where he was born.\n\n"}
{"id": "519727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519727", "title": "Friedrich Amelung", "text": "Friedrich Amelung\n\nFriedrich Ludwig Balthasar Amelung ( – ) was a Baltic German cultural historian, businessman and chess endgame composer.\n\nAmelung was born at Võisiku () manor in Governorate of Livonia of the Russian Empire (present-day Jõgeva County in Estonia). 1862–1864 he studied philosophy and chemistry at the University of Dorpat. 1864–1879 and 1885–1902 he was the director of the Rõika-Meleski mirror factory which he inherited from his father. Amelung published writings about the culture and history of Estonian localities like Viljandi, Tallinn and Põltsamaa.\n\nAmelung was known as a chess player and a famous chess quiz's author. 1879–1885 he lived in Reval (now Tallinn) and studied the chess history of the Baltics. Between 1888 and 1908 he edited the chess magazine \"Baltische Schachblätter\". In 1898 he established the Baltic Chess Society. Amelung published about 230 endgame studies, making him the first chess historian in the Baltic States.\n\nHe played a few games with Adolf Anderssen, Gustav Neumann, Carl Mayet, Emil Schallopp, Andreas Ascharin, Emanuel Schiffers.\n\nHe died in 1909 in Riga and is buried at the Kolga-Jaani cemetery in Estonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "8933593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8933593", "title": "George Chauncey", "text": "George Chauncey\n\nGeorge Chauncey (born 1954) is a professor of history at Columbia University. He is best known as the author of \"Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890-1940\" (1994).\n\nChauncey received his B.A. (1977) and Ph.D. (1989) in history from Yale University, where he studied with Nancy Cott and David Montgomery. From 1991 to 2006, he taught in the Department of History at the University of Chicago, rising from assistant professor to full professor of history. In 2006, he joined the Yale faculty. He subsequently joined Columbia University's department of history in 2017.\n\nHis book \"Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890-1930\" (1994) was published to mark the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Stonewall Rebellions. It combined social, political, and cultural history, and in it Chauncey argues that early twentieth century New York had a thriving, open gay culture. Using newspaper accounts from a wide variety of mainstream and underground publications, the archives of reform organizations, police and court records, popular cartoons and caricatures, guidebooks, and maps, Chauncey offers a rich and textured account of urban gay life. The book was acclaimed for several original findings, among them the malleability of sexual identities (he finds, for example, widespread acceptance of homosexual practices among working-class, heteronormative men), the use of house concerts as covers for sexual activity, a discussion of the \"panzy craze\", and the relative novelty of the category of \"closeted\" gay men. According to Chauncey, it was not until the 1930s and afterward that a strict regime of policing gay male sexuality emerged. It was in this period, he contends, that homosexual behavior began to move underground.\n\nChauncey wrote an historical defense of gay marriage. He is currently finishing a history of gay New York from the mid-twentieth century to the present.\n\nChauncey is the recipient of fellowships from the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation, the National Humanities Center, the American Council of Learned Societies, and the Center for Scholars and Writers at the New York Public Library.\n\nChauncey has testified as an expert witness in several major gay rights cases, and he was the organizer and lead author of the Historians' Amicus Brief in \"Lawrence v. Texas\" (2003), which weighed heavily in the Supreme Court's landmark decision overturning the nation's remaining sodomy laws. In that brief, Chauncey argued for the historical specificity of understandings of sodomy, challenging the reasoning in \"Bowers v. Hardwick\" (1986) that antisodomy laws were an enduring feature of the American legal system.\n\nChauncey most notably testified as an expert witness in the California Proposition 8 case, \"Perry v. Schwarzenegger\", on behalf of the successful plaintiffs. In the \"Perry\" case, the Court found him to be \"qualified to offer testimony on social history, especially as it relates to gays and lesbians.\" The court recounted his academic qualifications, citing his CV, his authorship of books, and original research using primary sources. The decision cited Chauncey's testimony on a dozen issues of fact or points of law that were relevant to the case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26492004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26492004", "title": "Heinrich Friedjung", "text": "Heinrich Friedjung\n\nHeinrich Friedjung (January 18, 1851 – July 14, 1920) was an Austrian historian and journalist.\n\nFriedjung was born in Roschtin (), Moravia (then, Austrian Empire; today, Czech Republic). The son of a Jewish family grew up in Vienna, and studied history in Prague and Berlin under Theodor Mommsen and Leopold von Ranke. He taught history and German language at the Commercial Academy (\"Handelsakademie\") in Vienna from 1873 to 1879; he was then fired for criticizing the government.\n\nHe subsequently became active in politics, notably for his liberal and German-nationalistic views and support for the Greater German solution to the German question.\n\nFriedjung died in Vienna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55962083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55962083", "title": "Janet Kitz", "text": "Janet Kitz\n\nJanet Kitz (born January 1, 1930) is an author and historian in Halifax, Nova Scotia who played a key role in the recognition of the 1917 Halifax Explosion, the largest man-made explosion prior to the atomic bomb and the worst man-made disaster in Canadian history.\n\nJanet F. Kitz, (née Brownlee) was born in Carnwath, South Lanarkshire, Scotland in 1930. She studied at the Lanark Grammar School and earned a Teaching Certificate from Jordanhill College in Glasgow. Kitz taught first in Edinburgh and then in London and Davos, Switzerland. She also worked as a British Red Cross Welfare Officer in Davos. Janet emigrated to Nova Scotia in 1971 following her marriage to Leonard Arthur Kitz, a lawyer and former mayor of Halifax.\n\nKitz had never heard of the Halifax explosion before she moved to Halifax. However, while taking anthropology courses at Saint Mary’s University, Kitz grew interested in the disaster and its effects on the people of Halifax. The 1917 munitions explosion killed nearly 2,000 people but was little known outside of Halifax. Only two books had been written about the event in the 70 years after the explosion and the only commemoration was a library in the North End of Halifax.\nAfter writing a paper about the explosion, Kitz was hired by the Nova Scotia Museum to assist the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic in cataloguing thousands of objects in the mortuary collection of objects from victims of the explosion discovered in the basement of the provincial legislature. This led to a temporary exhibit at the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic called \"A Moment in Time\" in 1987 which was expanded to become a permanent exhibit curated by Kitz called \"Halifax Wrecked\" in 1994. Kitz also became to interview survivors of the explosion and their families.\n\nKitz’s work at the museum led her to write the 1989 book \"\". The book combined artifact research, oral history and documentary history to explore the explosion through the families involved. It has remained a definitive account which has influenced numerous works published since. Kitz followed this book with \"Survivors: Children of the Halifax Explosion\" and \"December 1917: Revisiting the Halifax Explosion\" co-written with Dartmouth historian Joan Payzant in 2006.\n\nKitz was a founding member of the Halifax Explosion Memorial Bells Committee which created a monument to the disaster in 1985 at Fort Needham Park overlooking the site of disaster. As part of this work, Kitz organized a reunion of survivors at the monument which became an annual event. Kitz chaired the committee that marked the 75th anniversary of the explosion in 1992 with an academic conference and a scholarly book \"Ground Zero\". She worked with families of the sailors ship \"Curacao\", sunk during the explosion, to have their names inscribed on a monument in Halifax’s Fairview Cemetery in 2001. In 2002 she led research with former mayor Edmund Morris and the Halifax Foundation in 2002 to create a definitive list of the victims of the explosion called \"The Book of Remembrance of the Halifax Explosion\" presented in a detailed online database at the Nova Scotia Archives.\n\nKitz served as a Board Member on the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in Halifax, the Women's Auxiliary of the Isaac Walton Killam Hospital for Children and as chair of the Point Pleasant Park Commission. In 1999 she wrote the book \"A History of Point Pleasant Park\". Kitz also wrote the biography of the Canadian-American architect Andrew Cobb in 2014, \"Andrew Cobb: Architect and Artist\".\n"}
{"id": "34838028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34838028", "title": "John Allen Giles", "text": "John Allen Giles\n\nRev. John Allen Giles (1808–1884) was an English historian. He was primarily known as a scholar of Anglo-Saxon language and history. He revised Stevens' translation of the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" and Bede's \"Ecclesiastical History of the English People\". He was a fellow at Corpus Christi College, Oxford.\n\nThe son of William Giles and his wife Sophia, née Allen, he was born on 26 October 1808 at Southwick House, in the parish of Mark, Somerset. At the age of sixteen he entered Charterhouse School as a Somerset scholar. From Charterhouse he was elected to a Bath and Wells scholarship at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, on 26 November 1824. In Easter term 1828 he obtained a double first class, and shortly afterwards graduated B.A., proceeding M.A. in 1831, in which year he gained the Vinerian scholarship, and took his D.C.L. degree in 1838. His election to a fellowship at Corpus on 15 November 1832 followed his college scholarship as a matter of course.\n\nGiles wished to become a barrister, but was persuaded by his mother to take orders, and was ordained to the curacy of Cossington, Somerset. The following year he vacated his fellowship, and was married. In 1834 he was appointed to the head-mastership of Camberwell Collegiate School, and on 24 November 1836 was elected head-master of the City of London School. The school did not do well under him, and he resigned on 23 January 1840; his resignation, however, has also been attributed to some misfortune connected with building speculations. He was succeeded by George Ferris Whidborne Mortimer. He retired to a house which he built near Bagshot, and there took pupils, and wrote.\n\nAfter a few years Giles became curate of Bampton, Oxfordshire, where he continued taking pupils, and edited and wrote a great number of books. Among them was one entitled \"Christian Records\", published in 1854, which related to the age and authenticity of the books of the New Testament. Samuel Wilberforce as bishop of Oxford, required him, on pain of losing his curacy, to suppress this work, and break off with another literary undertaking. After some letters, which were published, he complied with the bishop's demand.\n\nIn September 1846 Giles secured an introduction to Ampère from Sainte-Beuve,and subsequently contributed amongst other works six volumes of Bede to Migne's Patrologia Latina.\n\nOn 6 March 1855 Giles was tried at the Oxford spring assizes before Lord Campbell, on the charges of having entered in the marriage register book of Bampton parish church a marriage under date 3 October 1854, which took place on the 5th, having himself performed the ceremony out of canonical hours, soon after 6 a.m.; of having falsely entered that it was performed by license; and of having forged the mark of a witness who was not present. He pleaded not guilty, but it was clear that he had committed the offence to cover the pregnancy of one of his servants, whom he married to her lover, Richard Pratt, a shoemaker's apprentice. Pratt's master, one of Giles's parishioners, instituted the proceedings. Giles spoke on his own behalf, and declared that he had published 120 volumes. His bishop also spoke for him. He was found guilty, but strongly recommended to mercy. Lord Campbell sentenced him to a year's imprisonment in Oxford Castle. After three months' imprisonment he was released by royal warrant on 4 June.\n\nAfter two or three years Giles took the curacy, with sole charge, of Perivale in Middlesex, and after five years became curate of Harmondsworth, near Slough. At the end of a year he resigned this curacy, and went to live at Cranford, nearby, where he took pupils, and after a while moved to Ealing. He did not resume clerical work until he was presented in 1867 to the living of Sutton, Surrey, which he held for seventeen years, until his death on 24 September 1884.\n\nMuch of Giles's work was hasty, and done for booksellers. His \"Scriptores Græci minores\" was published in 1831, and his \"Latin Grammar\" reached a third edition in 1833. He published a \"Greek Lexicon\" in 1839.\n\nBetween 1837 and 1843 Giles published the \"Patres Ecclesiæ Anglicanæ\", a series of thirty-four volumes, containing the works of Aldhelm, Bæda, Boniface, Lanfranc, Archbishop Thomas, John of Salisbury, Peter of Blois, Gilbert Foliot, and other authors. Giles published his translation of Geoffrey of Monmouth’s \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" in 1842 and it includes the \"Prophecies of Merlin\". Several volumes of the Caxton Society's publications were edited by him, chiefly between 1845 and 1854. Among these were \"Anecdota Bædæ et aliorum\", \"Benedictus Abbas, de Vita S. Thomæ\", \"Chronicon Angliae Petriburgense\", \"La révolte du Conte de Warwick\", and \"Vitæ quorundam Anglo-Saxonum\". His \"Scriptores rerum gestarum Willelmi Conquestoris\" was published in 1845.\n\nGiles contributed to Bohn's Antiquarian Library translations of \"Matthew Paris\" (1847), \"Bede's Ecclesiastical History\", and the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", (1849), and other works. In 1845 he published \"Life and Times of Thomas Becket\", 2 vols., translated into French, 1858; in 1847, \"History of the Ancient Britons\", 2 vols., and in 1848, \"Life and Times of Alfred the Great\". In 1848, he produced \"Six Old English Chronicles\" which mostly reprinted previously published material.\n\nIn 1847–8 appeared his \"History of Bampton\", 2 vols., and in 1852 his \"History of Witney and some neighbouring Parishes\". While at Bampton, in 1850 he published \"Hebrew Records\" on the age and authenticity of the books of the Old Testament, and in 1854 \"Christian Records on the Age, Authorship, and Authenticity of the Books of the New Testament\", in which he contended, in a preface dated 26 October 1853, that the \"Gospels and Acts were not in existence before the year 150\", and remarks that \"the objections of ancient philosophers, Celsus, Porphyry, and others, were drowned in the tide of orthodox resentment\" (see \"Letters of the Bishop of Oxford and Dr. J. A. G.\", published in a separate volume). A review of Giles' 1854 \"Christian Records\", states, \"His [Giles] object is to establish ...that the historical books of the New Testament are without any evidence, external or internal, of origin from an apostolical period or source ; and abound in irreconcilable discrepancies.\"The testimony of Justin Martyr who wrote his \"Apology for the Christians\" in A.D. 151  ...does not name a single writer of the eight, who are said to have written the books of the New Testament. The very names of the evangelists Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, are never mentioned by him —do not occur once in all his works. It is therefore not true that he has quoted from our existing Gospels, and so proves their existence, as they now are, in his own time.\n\nIn 1853 he began to work on a series called \"Dr. Giles's Juvenile Library\", which went on appearing from time to time until 1860, and comprised a large number of school-books, \"First Lessons\" on English, Scottish, Irish, French, and Indian history, on geography, astronomy, arithmetic, &c. He contributed \"Poetic Treasures\" to Moxon's \"Popular Poets\" in 1881.\n\nGiles married Miss A. S. Dickinson, who survived him, and by whom he had children including:\n\n"}
{"id": "13933258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13933258", "title": "Krzysztof Buchowski", "text": "Krzysztof Buchowski\n\nKrzysztof Buchowski (born 1969) is a Polish historian at Institute of History at University of Białystok. He specializes in Central and Eastern European history in 19th-20th century and Polish-Lithuanian relations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "625058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625058", "title": "List of prehistoric lakes", "text": "List of prehistoric lakes\n\nThis a partial list of prehistoric lakes. Although the form of the names below differ, the lists are alphabetized by the identifying name of the lake (e.g., Algonquin for Glacial Lake Algonquin). YBP = Years Before Present.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "670646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=670646", "title": "List of rulers of Lithuania", "text": "List of rulers of Lithuania\n\nThe following is a list of rulers over Lithuania—grand dukes, kings, and presidents—the heads of authority over historical Lithuanian territory. The timeline includes Lithuania as a sovereign entity or legitimately part of a greater sovereign entity as well as Lithuania under control or occupation of an outside authority (i.e., Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic). The incumbents and office-holders are listed by names most commonly used in English language. Where appropriate, the alternations in Lithuanian, Ruthenian (later Belarusian) and Polish are included.\n\nThe state of Lithuania formed in the 1230s, when threatened by the Livonian Order in the north and the Teutonic Knights in the west, the Baltic tribes united under the leadership of Mindaugas. He became the only crowned king of Lithuania. His state became known as Grand Duchy of Lithuania. After Grand Duke Jogaila became also king of Poland in 1386, the two states became closer connected and since 1440 both were ruled by a common ruler. In 1569 Union of Lublin was signed and a new entity—the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth—emerged. The commonwealth was partitioned in 1795 and Lithuania became part of the Russian Empire till 16 February 1918. The Council of Lithuania was able to establish the sovereignty only in 1919, after Germany lost World War I. The first republic of Lithuania existed until 1940 when it was occupied by the Soviet Union. During the Soviet-German War, Lithuania was occupied by Nazi Germany. In 1944, as Germany was losing the war, Russia re-occupied Lithuania and established the Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic. On 11 March 1990, Lithuania became the first Soviet republic to declare independence. The restored Republic of Lithuania is a democratic republic, a member of both the European Union and NATO.\n\nTitle: Grand Duke (; ; ) except for Mindaugas, who became king of Lithuania ().\n\nDates are approximate because of scant written sources.\n\nSome dates are approximate.\n\nThe act of personal union with Poland was signed as early as 1385, however, continuous line of common rulers of the two countries started only with Casimir IV (even then Polish and Lithuanians twice selected different rulers following earlier common monarch's death, but the Lithuanian one always eventually assumed the Polish throne). The monarchs retained separate titles for both parts of the state, and their numbering was kept separately. The Jagiellon dynasty was a direct continuation of the Gediminids.\n\nThe Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was established by Union of Lublin in 1569. The elected King of Poland was to be elected by Lithuanian noble families as a Grand Duke of Lithuania (until then Lithuanian dukedom was hereditary). The first ruler of the common country was Sigismund II Augustus. Following the partitions in 1772, 1793, and 1795, the commonwealth ceased to exist and Lithuania became part of the Russian Empire for 123 years. There are some gaps in the timeline as it took a while to elect a new king. The first Grand Duke elected after the Gediminyds line became extinct and after the Valois fled back to France was Stephen Báthory, who had made an effort to be recognized as Grand Duke of Lithuania by establishing Vilnius University.\n\nTitle: King of Poland and Grand Duke of Lithuania (; ; ; ).\n\nThe Council of Lithuania declared independence on 16 February 1918 and invited Wilhelm of Urach to become king of Lithuania. The name of the state was the \"Kingdom of Lithuania\". On 9 July 1918, the council declared that the Duke of Urach is to become King Mindaugas II of Lithuania. However, on 2 November, the council revoked this decision because of its unpopularity and declared that Lithuania is to be a democratic republic.\n\nState of Lithuania was ruled by the Presidium of the State Council of Lithuania, its chairman was de facto Head of State. Institution of Presidium of the State Council of Lithuania was changed into President's on 4 April, 1919. Chairman of the Presidium Antanas Smetona was elected as First President of the State of Lithuania by the State Council of Lithuania. \n\nThe institution of President () was created on 4 April 1919.\n\nThe Soviet Union occupied Lithuania and established Lithuanian SSR in July 1940. As Nazi Germany attacked the Soviet Union, Lithuania was occupied by the Germans. For a few days before the German occupation, Lithuania was ruled by pro-German rebel government of Juozas Ambrazevičius. Under the Germans, the General District of Lithuania was governed by the administration of general Petras Kubiliūnas. As Nazi Germany retreated, the Soviet Union reoccupied the country and reestablished the Lithuanian SSR in 1944.\n\nTitle: First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Lithuania (; ).\n\nThe Presidium of the Supreme Soviet acted as a collective head of state from 25 August 1940 to 11 March 1990.\n\nThe leader of the Supreme Council was the official head of state from the declaration of independence on 11 March 1990 until the new Constitution came into effect in 1992 establishing the office of President and the institution of Seimas. The state and its leadership were not recognized internationally until September 1991.\n\nTitle from 1990 to 1992: Chairman of the Supreme Council (Parliament) ().\nTitle from 1992 onwards: President ().\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2633204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2633204", "title": "Ludovico Baille", "text": "Ludovico Baille\n\nLudovico Baille (Cagliari February 3, 1764 – Cagliari March 14, 1839)\n\nHaving graduated in law from the Reale Università di Cagliari he was appointed in 1786 to the Ministry of the Spanish government at Turin, but his chief interest was in tracking down in archives and libraries the materials that would serve him for a planned history of his native Sardinia, which remains in manuscript.\n\nIn 1800, he returned to Sardinia and continued his research. He was an active member of the Royal Society of Agriculture and Economics and president of the University library, while he held official posts as censor and assistant to the reform magistracy. A member of various academies, he maintained correspondence with many of the Italian scholars of his day: Mattei, Marini, Vernazza, and Angius. In the last decade of the 18th century, Baille was the guiding spirit behind the institution at Cagliari of a museum of antiquities and of natural history.\n\nHis papers, both edited and unedited, constitute one of the important sources for the study of Sardinian history. In his spare time he composed sonnets.\n\nThe Baille archives are at the Biblioteca Universitaria di Cagliari. They include a parchment codex containing the acts of the Sardinian synod held at Santa Giusta, November 3, 1226 and the 16th-century manuscript of Giovanni Proto Arca's seven books of the natural and moral history of Sardinia (\"Naturalis et moralis historiae de rebus Sardiniae, libri septem\"), among other documents.\n\nHis published works include:\n\nAlso in manuscript are his notes on economics, a dissertation on Sardinia, records of his voyages in 1788–89, and notes on antiquities.\n\n"}
{"id": "50771841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50771841", "title": "Maashaus", "text": "Maashaus\n\nMaashaus () is a spacious room taking the whole front part of a ground floor of a multi-storied Gothic or Renaissance town house.\n\nThis room was used mainly for serving beer, or other kinds of trade and craft. It was not heated. It also worked to link together other parts of the house, since it held a staircase to the first floor above ground (where the owner lived) and to the basement, an archway or similar passage to the courtyard and so on. The ceiling was almost always vaulted and was often supported by an asymmetrically placed central column. It was separated from the street or the arcade by a wall with a doorway and one or more windows.\n\nMaashauses started to appear in the 13th century as a manifestation of the trend to sequester the living quarters of a burgers' house to the first floor. What used to be a main living room of the house, the so-called smoke abode, kept only its public, trade and craft functions, which remained on the ground floor, because they required the proximity of the cellar, the courtyard and especially the street entrance. The trade activities involved mainly the aforementioned serving of beer, which is related to the brewing rights (in the Middle Ages a vast majority of burgers' houses were granted this right), but other trade and crafts were performed there also.\n\nIn the 19th century most maashauses were converted to private shops. Later, they were being renovated in many historic cities as part of restoration activities in the socialist period. To this day, maashauses are found in many buildings in the centers of Česky Krumlov, Slavonice and so on. After 1989 many maashauses were again employed for retail or by pubs and restaurants.\n\n\"Maß“ is an old unit of volume (approximately equivalent to 1.4 l), used for measuring mainly beer, \"haus\" means a \"house“ in German, but in the past it could also stand for the main living room of a house. Therefore, maashaus could be translated as a \"beer house\".\n"}
{"id": "2978313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978313", "title": "Mark Tushnet", "text": "Mark Tushnet\n\nMark Victor Tushnet (born November 18, 1945) is a leading scholar of constitutional law and legal history, and currently the William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Law at Harvard Law School.\n\nIn 1967, Tushnet received his A.B. from Harvard College. He later received an M.A. in history from Yale University and his J.D. from the Yale Law School. Tushnet has been a faculty member at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, and he taught for many years at the Georgetown University Law Center.\n\nTushnet served as a law clerk to Justice Thurgood Marshall on the Supreme Court between 1972 and 1973. In a 1996 congressional hearing on President Bill Clinton's veto of the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, Tushnet testified about his involvement in \"Roe v. Wade\", the 1973 case that struck down state laws prohibiting abortion. During questioning it was alleged that a memorandum written by Tushnet to Marshall had a significant influence on the outcome of the case. More recently, he commented on the power of the president to pardon himself, composition of the Court, and the retirement of Justice Anthony Kennedy. He is also widely quoted in the press as an expert on the First Amendment right to free speech and the scope of presidential powers. In 2016, Tushnet was listed among the ten most frequently cited law professors.\n\nOne of the more controversial figures in constitutional theory, he is identified with the 'critical legal studies' movement and once stated in an article that, were he asked to decide actual cases as a judge, he would seek to reach results that would \"advance the cause of socialism\". Tushnet is a main proponent of the idea that judicial review should be strongly limited and that the Constitution should be returned \"to the people.\" Tushnet is, with Harvard Law Professor Vicki Jackson, the co-author of a casebook entitled \"Comparative Constitutional Law\" (Foundation Press, 2d ed. 2006).\n\nTushnet is a nonobservant Jew. His wife, Elizabeth Alexander, is a Unitarian, and formerly directed the National Prison Project of the American Civil Liberties Union. She now works in private practice. Their daughter Rebecca Tushnet is a professor of law at Harvard Law School. Their other daughter Eve is a celibate lesbian Roman Catholic author and blogger.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1477153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1477153", "title": "Megalithic Yard", "text": "Megalithic Yard\n\nA Megalithic Yard (MY) is a unit of measurement of about , that some researchers believe was used in the construction of megalithic structures. The proposal was made by Alexander Thom as a result of his surveys of 600 megalithic sites in England, Scotland, Wales and Brittany. Thom also proposed the Megalithic Rod of 2.5 MY, or on average across sites 6.77625 feet. As subunits of these, he further proposed the Megalithic Inch of , one hundred of which are included in a Megalithic Rod, and forty of which composed a Meglithic Yard. Thom applied the statistical \"lumped variance test\" of J.R. Broadbent on this quantum and found the results significant, while others have challenged his statistical analysis and suggested that Thom's evidence can be explained in other ways, for instance that the supposed megalithic yard is in fact the average length of a pace.\n\nThom suggested that \"There must have been a headquarters from which standard rods were sent out but whether this was in these islands or on the Continent the present investigation cannot determine.\"\n\nMargaret Ponting has suggested that artefacts such as a marked bone found during excavations at Dail Mòr near Callanish, the Patrickholme bone bead from Lanarkshire and Dalgety bone bead from Fife in Scotland have shown some evidence of being measuring rods based on the Megalithic Yard in Britain. An oak rod from the Iron Age fortified settlement at Borre Fen mearured with marks dividing it up into eight parts of . Euan Mackie referred to five eighths of this rod as \"very close to a megalithic yard\". A hazel measuring rod recovered from a Bronze Age burial mound in Borum Eshøj, East Jutland by P. V. Glob in 1875 measured . Keith Critchlow suggested this may have shrunk from its original length of one Megalithic Yard over a period of 3000 years.\n\nThom made a comparison of his Megalithic Yard with the Spanish vara, the pre-metric measurement of Iberia, whose length was . Archaeologist Euan Mackie noticed similarities between the Megalithic Yard and a unit of measurement extrapolated from a long, marked shell from Mohenjo Daro and ancient measuring rods used in mining in the Austrian Tyrol. He suggested similarities with other measurements such as the ancient Indian \"gaz\" and the Sumerian šu-du3-a. Along with John Michell, Mackie also noted that it is the diagonal of a rectangle measuring 2 by 1 Egyptian remens. Jay Kappraff has noted similarity between the Megalithic Yard and the ancient Indus \"short yard\" of . Anne Macaulay reported that the Megalithic Rod is equal in length to the \"Greek fathom\" of () from studies by Eric Fernie of the Metrological Relief in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford.\n\nThom's proposals were initially ignored or regarded as unbelievable by mainstream archaeologists.\n\nClive Ruggles, citing astronomer Douglas C. Heggie, has said that both classical and Bayesian statistical reassessments of Thom's data \"reached the conclusion that the evidence in favour of the MY was at best marginal, and that even if it does exist the uncertainty in our knowledge of its value is of the order of centimetres, far greater than the 1mm precision claimed by Thom. In other words, the evidence presented by Thom could be\nadequately explained by, say, monuments being set out by pacing, with the 'unit' reflecting an average length of pace.\" David George Kendall makes the same argument, and says that pacing would have created a greater difference in measurements between sites, and that a statistical analysis of sites would reveal whether they were measured by pacing or not. In an investigation for the Royal Academy Kendall concluded that there was evidence of a uniform unit in Scottish circles but not in English circles, and that further research was needed. Statistician P. R. Freeman reached similar conclusions and found that two other units fit the data as well as the yard.\n\nDouglas Heggie casts doubt on Thom's suggestion as well, stating that his careful analysis uncovered \"little evidence for a highly accurate unit\" and \"little justification for the claim that a highly accurate unit was in use\".\n\nIn his book \"Rings of Stone: The Prehistoric Stone Circles of Britain and Ireland.\" Aubrey Burl calls the megalithic yard \"a chimera, a grotesque statistical misconception.\" \n\nMost researchers have concluded that there is marginal evidence for a standardized measuring unit, but that it was not as uniform as Thom believed.\n\nSome commentators upon Thom's megalithic yard (John Ivimy and then Euan Mackie) have noted how such a measure could relate to geometrical ideas found historically in two Egyptian metrological units; the remen of about 1.2 feet and royal cubit of about 1.72 feet. The remen and royal cubit were used to define land areas in Egypt: \"On documentary and other evidence Griffith came to the conclusion that the square on the royal cubit was intended to be twice that on the remen; and Petri identified the remen as a length of 20 digits\".\n\nA square with side length equal to the diagonal of a square with side length equal to one remen has an area of one square royal cubit, ten thousand (a myriad) of which defined an Egyptian land measure, the setat. [cite mackie] John Ivimy noted that \"The ratio MY : Rc is SQRT(5) : SQRT(2) to the nearest millimeter, which makes the MY equal to SQRT(5) remens, or the length of a 2 x 1 remen rectangle.\", see figure below.\n\nThe main weakness in this argument is probably that, in order to derive their yard, the builders of the megalithic monuments would have needed the remen and royal cubit, upon which this geometrical relationship relies.\n\n"}
{"id": "52963742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52963742", "title": "Nikolay Lyubimov", "text": "Nikolay Lyubimov\n\nNikolay Viktorovich Lyubimov (; born 1971, Kaluga) is a Member of the State Duma of the Russian Federation VII convocation, Deputy Governor of the Kaluga Oblast (2011-2015), mayor of Kaluga in 2007-2010, and Acting Governor of Ryazan Oblast from February 14, 2017.\n\nIn 1993 he graduated from the Faculty of History of Kaluga State University (teacher of history and social and political disciplines). In 2001 he graduated from Moscow Humanitarian-Economic Institute (jurisprudence).\n\n2004-2007 — Minister of Economic Development of the Kaluga Oblast.\n\n2007-2010 — Mayor of Kaluga.\n\nDecember 2010-September 2015 — Deputy Governor of the Kaluga Oblast.\n\nSeptember 2011-September 2015 Deputy Governor of the Kaluga Oblast — the head of the Administration of the Governor of the Kaluga Oblast.\n\nSeptember 13, 2015, at the election of deputies of the Legislative Assembly of Kaluga Oblast of the VI convocation, he was elected to the party list of United Russia.\n\nSeptember 18, 2016, he was elected to the 7th State Duma of the Russian Federation.\n\nFebruary 14, 2017, by decree of President Vladimir Putin's Russia, he was appointed acting governor of the Ryazan Oblast. Before taking office, he was elected Governor of the Ryazan Region.\n\nMarried. Two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "43706156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43706156", "title": "Operation Indian Ocean", "text": "Operation Indian Ocean\n\nOperation Indian Ocean was a joint military operation between the Somali military, AMISOM and the United States military against the Al-Shabaab militant group in southern Somalia. It officially began in August 2014.\n\nLaunched on 16 August 2014, Operation Indian Ocean is led by the Somali federal government and is aimed at eliminating the remaining insurgent-held areas in the countryside. On 1 September 2014, a U.S. airstrike carried out near the town of Haawaay as part of the broader mission killed Al-Shabaab leader Moktar Ali Zubeyr. U.S. authorities hailed the raid as a major symbolic and operational loss for Al-Shabaab. Political analysts likewise suggested that the insurgent leader's death will likely lead to Al-Shabaab's fragmentation and eventual dissolution.\n\nIn addition, the Somali government presented a 45-day amnesty to all moderate members of the militant group. Prime Minister Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed announced that the pardon offer had begun to be taken up by many defectors. By October 2014, 700 Al-Shabaab members had surrendered to the state authorities. Among the latter militants was senior commander Zakariya Ismail Ahmed Hersi, who turned himself in to local police in the southwestern Gedo province in late December 2014. Sheikh Osman Sheikh Mohamed, the commander of Al-Shabaab's militia in the Luq area, as well as landmine expert Abdullahi Mohamed \"Madoobe\", and senior officer Bashaan Ali Hassan (\"Mohamed Ali\") followed suit and defected in early 2015.\n\nAdditional senior Al-Shabaab commanders were also killed or died in combat. Among the slain militant leaders was intelligence chief Tahliil Abdishakur, who was killed in a U.S. drone airstrike in December 2014; commander Ibrahim Filey, who was killed during a skirmish with Somali army troops in January 2015; chief of external operations and planning for intelligence and security Yusuf Dheeq, who was killed in a U.S. drone airstrike in January 2015; head of external operations and mastermind of the Westgate shopping mall attack Aden Garaar, who was killed in a U.S. drone airstrike in March 2015; and Gedo province commander Mohamed Musa, who was killed during a skirmish with Somali army troops in March 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA Kenyan airstrike in Somalia killed at least 52 militants from the Al-Shabaab, including its intelligence chief, the Kenyan military said. But Al-Shabaab denied that there was any strike, and a Somali government official cast doubt on the intelligence chief's death.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "300184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300184", "title": "Opium of the people", "text": "Opium of the people\n\n\"Religion is the opium of the people\" is one of the most frequently paraphrased statements of German philosopher and economist Karl Marx. It was translated from the German original, and is often rendered as \"religion... is the opiate of the \"masses\".\"\n\nThe quotation originates from the introduction of Marx's work \"A Contribution to the Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right\", which he started in 1843 but which was not published until after his death. The introduction to this work was published separately in 1844, in Marx's own journal \"Deutsch–Französische Jahrbücher\", a collaboration with Arnold Ruge.\n\nThe full quote from Karl Marx translates as: \"Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people\". Often quoted only in part, the interpretation of the metaphor in its context has received much less attention.\n\nThe quotation, in context, reads as follows (emphasis added):\nMarx was making a structural functionalism argument about religion, and particularly about organized religion. Marx believed that religion had certain practical functions in society that were similar to the function of opium in a sick or injured person: it reduced people's immediate suffering and provided them with pleasant illusions which gave them the strength to carry on. Marx also saw religion as harmful, as it prevents people from seeing the class structure and oppression around them, thus religion can prevent the necessary revolution.\n\nMarx wrote this passage in 1843 as part of the introduction to a book that criticized philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's 1820 book, \"Elements of the Philosophy of Right\". The introduction was published in 1844 in a small journal. The book itself was published .\n\nAs the \"Deutsch–Französische Jahrbücher\" journal had a print run of just 1,000, it had no popular effect during the 19th century. The phrase became better known during the 1930s when Marxism was more popular.\n\nReligion has become, in many Western countries, less common and less accepted since Marx wrote this now-famous line. Some writers speculate on what the modern \"opium of the people\" would be, such as sports fandom, celebrities, the distractions of television, internet, and other entertainment, etc.\n\nThe same metaphor was used by many authors during the 19th century.\n\nIn 1798, Novalis wrote in \"Blüthenstaub\" (\"Pollen\"):\nIn 1840, Heinrich Heine also used the same analogy, in his essay on Ludwig Börne:\n\nWelcome be a religion that pours into the bitter chalice of the suffering human species some sweet, soporific drops of spiritual opium, some drops of love, hope and faith.\nCharles Kingsley, a canon of the Church of England, wrote this four years after Marx:\nMiguel de Unamuno, the famed Spanish author of the Generation of '98, focused his Nivola San Manuel Bueno, mártir around the theme of religion's opiatic affect on the people of rural Spain. In the book, the protagonist Don Manuel, is a priest who does not believe in God, but continues preaching because he sees the positive impact he can make in the lives of his parishioners. Religion in this way also serves to cure his own deep depression, through the happiness he feels from helping the people of Valverde de Lucerna. Unamuno makes direct reference to Marx when Don Manuel explains:\nVladimir Lenin, speaking of religion in \"Novaya Zhizn\" in 1905, alluded to Marx's earlier comments (emphasis added):\n\nThose who toil and live in want all their lives are taught by religion to be submissive and patient while here on earth, and to take comfort in the hope of a heavenly reward. But those who live by the labour of others are taught by religion to practise charity while on earth, thus offering them a very cheap way of justifying their entire existence as exploiters and selling them at a moderate price tickets to well-being in heaven. \"Religion is opium for the people\". Religion is a sort of spiritual booze, in which the slaves of capital drown their human image, their demand for a life more or less worthy of man.\n\n"}
{"id": "868936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=868936", "title": "Paris Gun", "text": "Paris Gun\n\nThe Paris Gun () was the name given to a type of German long-range siege gun, several of which were used to bombard Paris during World War I. They were in service from March to August 1918. When the guns were first employed, Parisians believed they had been bombed by a high-altitude Zeppelin, as the sound of neither an aeroplane nor a gun could be heard. They were the largest pieces of artillery used during the war by barrel length, and are considered to be superguns.\n\nAlso called the \"Kaiser Wilhelm Geschütz\" (\"Emperor William Gun\"), they were often confused with Big Bertha, the German howitzer used against the Liège forts in 1914; indeed, the French called them by this name, as well. They were also confused with the smaller \"Langer Max\" (Long Max) cannon, from which they were derived; although the famous Krupp-family artillery makers produced all these guns, the resemblance ended there.\n\nAs military weapons, the Paris Guns were not a great success: the payload was small, the barrel required frequent replacement, and the guns' accuracy was good enough for only city-sized targets. The German objective was to build a psychological weapon to attack the morale of the Parisians, not to destroy the city itself.\n\nDue to the weapon's apparent total destruction by the Germans in the face of the final Allied offensives its capabilities are not known with full certainty. Figures stated for the weapon's size, range, and performance varied widely depending on the source—not even the number of shells fired is certain. With the discovery (in the 1980s) and publication (in the Bull and Murphy book) of a long note on the gun written shortly before his death in 1926 by Dr. Fritz Rausenberger, who was in charge of its development at Krupp, the details of its design and capabilities were considerably clarified.\n\nThe gun was capable of firing a shell to a range of and a maximum altitude of —the greatest height reached by a human-made projectile until the first successful V-2 flight test in October 1942. At the start of its 182-second trajectory, each shell from the Paris Gun reached a speed of . or 3,681 MPH\n\nSeven barrels were constructed. They used worn-out 38 cm SK L/45 \"Max\" gun barrels that were fitted with an internal tube that reduced the caliber from to . The tube was long and projected out of the end of the gun, so an extension was bolted to the old gun-muzzle to cover and reinforce the lining tube. A further, 12-meter–long smooth-bore extension was attached to the end of this, giving a total barrel length of . This smooth section was intended to improve accuracy and reduce the dispersion of the shells, as it reduced the slight yaw a shell might have immediately after leaving the gun barrel produced by the gun's rifling. The barrel was braced to counteract barrel drop due to its length and weight, and vibrations while firing; it was mounted on a special rail-transportable carriage and fired from a prepared, concrete emplacement with a turntable. The original breech of the old 38 cm gun did not require modification or reinforcement.\n\nSince it was based on a naval weapon, the gun was manned by a crew of 80 Imperial Navy sailors under the command of Vice-Admiral Rogge, chief of the Ordnance branch of the Admiralty. It was surrounded by several batteries of standard army artillery to create a \"noise-screen\" chorus around the big gun so that it could not be located by French and British spotters.\n\nThe projectile was flying significantly higher than projectiles from previous guns. Writer and journalist Adam Hochschild put it this way: \"It took about three minutes for each giant shell to cover the distance to the city, climbing to an altitude of at the top of its trajectory. This was by far the highest point ever reached by a man-made object, so high that gunners, in calculating where the shells would land, had to take into account the rotation of the Earth. For the first time in warfare, deadly projectiles rained down on civilians from the stratosphere\". This reduced drag from air resistance, allowing the shell to achieve a range of over .\n\nThe unfinished V-3 cannon would have been able to fire somewhat larger projectiles to a longer range, and with a substantially higher rate of fire. The unfinished Iraqi super gun would also have been substantially bigger.\n\nThe Paris Gun shells weighed . The shells initially used had a diameter of and a length of . The main body of the shell was composed of thick steel, containing of TNT. The small amount of explosive – around 6.6% of the weight of the shell – meant that the effect of its shellburst was small for the shell's size. The thickness of the shell casing, to withstand the forces of firing, meant that shells would explode into a comparatively small number of large fragments, limiting their destructive effect. A crater produced by a shell falling in the Tuileries Garden was described by an eyewitness as being across and deep.\n\nThe shells were propelled at such a high velocity that each successive shot wore away a considerable amount of steel from the rifled bore. Each shell was sequentially numbered according to its increasing diameter, and had to be fired in numeric order, lest the projectile lodge in the bore, and the gun explode. Also, when the shell was rammed into the gun, the chamber was precisely measured to determine the difference in its length: a few inches off would cause a great variance in the velocity, and with it, the range. Then, with the variance determined, the additional quantity of propellant was calculated, and its measure taken from a special car and added to the regular charge. After 65 rounds had been fired, each of progressively larger caliber to allow for wear, the barrel was sent back to Krupp and rebored to a caliber of with a new set of shells.\n\nThe shell's explosive was contained in two compartments, separated by a wall. This strengthened the shell and supported the explosive charge under the acceleration of firing. One of the shell's two fuses was mounted in the wall, with the other in the base of the shell. The fuses proved very reliable as not one of the 303 shells that landed in and around Paris failed to detonate. The shell's nose was fitted with a streamlined, lightweight, ballistic cap – a highly unusual feature for the time – and the side had grooves that engaged with the rifling of the gun barrel, spinning the shell as it was fired so its flight was stable. Two copper driving bands provided a gas-tight seal against the gun barrel during firing.\n\nThe gun was fired from a wooded hill (Le mont de Joie) near Crépy and the first shell landed at 7:18 a.m. on 21 March 1918 on the \"Quai de la Seine\", the explosion being heard across the city. Shells continued to land at 15 minute intervals, with 21 counted on the first day. The initial assumption was these were bombs dropped from an airplane or Zeppelin flying too high to be seen or heard. Within a few hours, sufficient casing fragments had been collected to show that the explosions were the result of shells, not bombs. By the end of the day, military authorities were aware the shells were being fired from behind German lines by a new long-range gun, although there was initially press speculation on the origin of the shells. This included the theory they were being fired by German agents close by Paris, or even within the city itself, so abandoned quarries close to the city were searched for a hidden gun. The actual gun was found within days by the French air reconnaissance aviator Didier Daurat.\n\nThe Paris gun emplacement was dug out of the north side of the wooded hill at Coucy-le-Château-Auffrique. The gun was mounted on heavy steel rails embedded in concrete, facing Paris.\n\nThe Paris gun was used to shell Paris at a range of . The distance was so far that the Coriolis effect—the rotation of the Earth—was substantial enough to affect trajectory calculations. The gun was fired at an azimuth of 232 degrees (west-southwest) from Crépy-en-Laon, which was at a latitude of 49.5 degrees North.\n\nBetween 320 to 367 shells were fired, at a maximum rate of around 20 per day. The shells killed 250 people and wounded 620, and caused considerable damage to property. The worst incident was on 29 March 1918, when a single shell hit the roof of the St-Gervais-et-St-Protais Church, collapsing the roof on to the congregation then hearing the Good Friday service. A total of 91 people were killed and 68 were wounded.\n\nThe gun was taken back to Germany in August 1918 as Allied advances threatened its security. No guns were ever captured by the Allies. It is believed that near the end of the war they were completely destroyed by the Germans. One spare mounting was captured by American troops in Bruyères-sur-Fère, near Château-Thierry, but the gun was never found; the construction plans seem to have been destroyed as well.\n\nUnder the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, the Germans were required to turn over a complete Paris Gun to the Allies, but they never complied with this.\n\nIn the 1930s, the German Army became interested in rockets for long-range artillery as a replacement for the Paris Gun—which was specifically banned under the Versailles Treaty. This work would eventually lead to the V-2 rocket that was used in World War II.\n\nDespite the ban, Krupp continued theoretical work on long-range guns. They started experimental work after the Nazi government began funding the project upon coming to power in 1933. This research led to the 21 cm K 12 (E), a refinement of the Paris Gun design concept. Although it was broadly similar in size and range to its predecessor, Krupp's engineers had significantly reduced the problem of barrel wear. They also improved mobility over the fixed Paris Gun by making the K12 a railway gun.\n\nThe first K12 was delivered to the German Army in 1939 and a second in 1940. During World War II, they were deployed in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region of France; they were used to shell Kent in Southern England between late 1940 and early 1941. One gun was captured by Allied forces in the Netherlands in 1945.\n\nA parody of the Paris Gun appears in the Charlie Chaplin movie \"The Great Dictator\". Firing at the Cathedral of Notre Dame, the \"Tomanians\" (the fictional country that represented Germany) succeed in blowing up a small outhouse. The destruction of the St-Gervais-et-St-Protais Church inspired Romain Rolland to write his novel \"Pierre et Luce\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45715302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45715302", "title": "Peter Erler", "text": "Peter Erler\n\nPeter Erler (born 10 April 1961 in Weißenfels) is a German historian. The focus of his professional research is on the history of German emigrants in the Soviet Union, Soviet internment camps in Germany, together with political developments more generally in the Soviet occupation zone (1945–1949) and the German Democratic Republic (1949–1990).\n\nBetween 1980 and 1985 Peter Erler studied history and pedagogy at the Kuban State University, Krasnodar in the Soviet Union. Since 1992 he has worked with both the , a department at the Free University of Berlin, established in 1992 to perform research on \"the external and internal pre-conditions for the forty year existence of a second German Dictatorship\" and the Berlin-Hohenschönhausen Memorial Museum. He is also a member of the editorial staff of the newspaper of the Forschungsverbund.\n"}
{"id": "42455155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42455155", "title": "Peter John Anderson", "text": "Peter John Anderson\n\nPeter John Anderson, LLB, MA, FSA, JP, (1853 – 12 May 1926) was the Librarian of the University of Aberdeen since 1894 and a noted philatelist who signed the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1921. He was Secretary of the New Spalding Club and President of the Aberdeen and North of Scotland Philatelic Society. He bequeathed his collection of philatelic literature to the University.\n\nPeter John Anderson was the only son of Agnes Shaw Grant (daughter of Isabella Grant and Alexander Grant of Dundreggan, Glenmoriston) and Peter Anderson, solicitor in Inverness (1804-1868). He was \"gold medallist of the Royal Academy in two successive years, and a graduate of the Universities of Aberdeen and Edinburgh ... and Secretary of the New Spalding Club.\" His sister, Isabel Harriet Grant Anderson, wrote a detailed family history, titled \"An Inverness Lawyer and His Sons, 1796-1878\", about their father, their uncles John and George Anderson, and of their grandfather, Peter Anderson (1768-1823), \"Procurator Fiscal for the Burgh.\" \n\nAnderson was said to be indefatigable in his aim to make Aberdeen University library the best in the country. He was one of the founders, and the Secretary from the start, of the New Spalding Club which published scholarly works about the history of Aberdeenshire.\n\nAnderson was a prolific correspondent on matters philatelic, particularly in relation to literature, of which he seemed to possess, or have examined, a great deal. His first appearance in a philatelic journal was in \"The Stamp-Collector's Magazine\" of May 1869 when he would have been about sixteen years of age. He was a frequent contributor to \"The Philatelic Record\", being noted from 1880 when he wrote about the earliest appearances in philatelic literature of the early stamps of Mauritius. In 1883 he wrote to the \"Record\" from the Aberdeen Conservative Club (as he often did) about discrepancies in the accounts of the use of British impressed newspaper stamps, comparing descriptions he had seen in different journals. In Volume 6 he wrote about varieties of imitations of the Mulready Envelope and the numbers of stamps reported in different catalogues, and, beginning in Volume 7, about early English philatelic literature which series he subsequently turned into a book.\n\n"}
{"id": "36429138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36429138", "title": "Philoctetes (Aeschylus play)", "text": "Philoctetes (Aeschylus play)\n\nPhiloctetes () is a play by the Athenian poet Aeschylus. It was probably first produced during the 470s BCE. It is now lost except for a few fragments. Most of what we know of the plot is from the writings of 1st century orator Dio Chrysostom, who compared the Philoctetes plays of Aeschylus, Euripides and Sophocles.\n\nThe few extant fragments from the play are not much use in reconstructing Aeschylus' treatment. One fragment mentions that Philoctetes' bow has been hung on a pine tree. Several are of Philoctetes commenting on the pain in his foot, including one in which he longs for death. We do know the broad outline of the plot from a comparison by Dio Chrysostom of the Aeschylus' \"Philoctetes\" with Euripides' \"Philoctetes\" (431 BCE) and Sophocles' \"Philoctetes\" (409 BCE).\n\nPhiloctetes is mentioned briefly in Homer's \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", and his story was expanded on in Lesches' \"Little Iliad\" and Arctinus' \"Iliupersis\". The Greeks had abandoned Philoctetes on the island of Lemnos on their way to Troy because they could not stand his screams of pain and the odor from his wound after he was bitten by a poisonous snake. However, ten years into the Trojan War they found out that Philoctetes and his bow and arrows were required to conquer Troy.\n\nIn the original versions of the story, Diomedes was sent to recover Philoctetes and bring him back to Troy. However, in Aeschylus' play, Odysseus, who was largely responsible for Philoctetes being marooned on Lemnos was sent to fetch him. In addition to creating dramatic irony, the innovation of having Odysseus sent to fetch Philoctetes also has a benefit in that Odysseus is particularly known for his oratory skills, and oratory skills are particularly valuable in a Greek play. The plot point of having Odysseus being sent to recover Philoctetes after being responsible for his abandonment is a plot point that Euripides and Sophocles retained in their \"Philoctetes\" plays.\n\nPhiloctetes did not recognize Odysseus at first as a result of the suffering Philoctetes endured for the prior ten years alone. Odysseus gained Philoctetes' trust by falsely telling him that Agamemnon, who was also responsible for Philoctetes' abandonment, had died and that Odysseus had been executed for committing a shameful crime. It is not known exactly how Odysseus ultimately secured Philoctetes bow and cooperation, or whether he took them by force as he attempted to do in Euripides' and Sophocles' versions. Dio does tell us that Odysseus' pleas and lies were not inappropriate for someone of Odysseus' heroic stature.\n\nAccording to Aspasius, Aeschylus' and Sophocles' Philoctetes attempted to hide his pain at first, but eventually the pain was too great and he was forced to scream.\n\nThe chorus in the play is made up of men of Lemnos. In In Aeschylus' play, the men of Lemnos had not visited Philoctetes throughout his entire ten year time on the island. Philoctetes told the chorus his backstory of being abandoned by the Greeks. Dio considered Aeschylus' approach of having a chorus that had never visited Philoctetes but not apologizing for that more straightforward than Euripides' approach of an apologetic chorus. In Sophocles' \"Philoctetes\", Lemnos is uninhabited, making the decision of the Greek commanders to maroon Philoctetes there even more heartless.\n\nDio praised Aeschylus' version for its simplicity, dignity, grandeur and bold thought and language. Classics professor Norman Austin claims that Aeschylus' revisions to the original story actually make Aeschylus' story more Homeric.\n\nThe date of the original production of \"Philoctetes\" is unknown. However, it is generally believed that it was originally produced during the 470s BCE.\n"}
{"id": "16598232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16598232", "title": "Progress in artificial intelligence", "text": "Progress in artificial intelligence\n\nArtificial intelligence applications have been used in a wide range of fields including medical diagnosis, stock trading, robot control, law, scientific discovery and toys. However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: \"A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's not labeled AI anymore.\" \"Many thousands of AI applications are deeply embedded in the infrastructure of every industry.\" In the late 1990s and early 21st century, AI technology became widely used as elements of larger systems, but the field is rarely credited for these successes.\n\nTo allow comparison with human performance, artificial intelligence can be evaluated on constrained and well-defined problems. Such tests have been termed subject matter expert Turing tests. Also, smaller problems provide more achievable goals and there are an ever-increasing number of positive results.\n\nIn his famous Turing test, Alan Turing picked language, the defining feature of human beings, for its basis. Yet, there are many other useful abilities that can be described as showing some form of intelligence. This gives better insight into the comparative success of artificial intelligence in different areas.\n\nIn what has been called the Feigenbaum test, the inventor of expert systems argued for subject specific expert tests. A paper by Jim Gray of Microsoft in 2003 suggested extending the Turing test to speech understanding, speaking and recognizing objects and behavior.\n\nAI, like electricity or the steam engine, is a general purpose technology. There is no consensus on how to characterize which tasks AI tends to excel at. Some versions of Moravec's paradox observe that humans are more likely to outperform machines in areas such as physical dexterity that have been the direct target of natural selection. While projects such as AlphaZero have succeeded in generating their own knowledge from scratch, many other machine learning projects require large training datasets. Researcher Andrew Ng has suggested, as a \"highly imperfect rule of thumb\", that \"almost anything a typical human can do with less than one second of mental thought, we can probably now or in the near future automate using AI.\"\n\nGames provide a high-profile benchmark for assessing rates of progress; many games have a large professional player base and a well-established competitive rating system. AlphaGo brought the era of classical board-game benchmarks to an close. Games of imperfect knowledge provide new challenges to AI in the area of game theory; the most prominent milestone in this area was brought to a close by Libratus' poker victory in 2017. E-sports continue to provide additional benchmarks; Facebook AI, Deepmind, and others have engaged with the popular StarCraft franchise of videogames.\n\nBroad classes of outcome for an AI test may be given as:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAn expert poll around 2016, conducted by Katja Grace of the Future of Humanity Institute and associates, gave median estimates of 3 years for championship Angry Birds, 4 years for the World Series of Poker, and 6 years for StarCraft. On more subjective tasks, the poll gave 6 years for folding laundry as well as an average human worker, 7–10 years for expertly answering 'easily Googleable' questions, 8 years for average speech transcription, 9 years for average telephone banking, and 11 years for expert songwriting, but over 30 years for writing a New York Times bestseller or winning the Putnam math competition.\n\nAn AI defeated a grandmaster in a regulation tournament game for the first time in 1988; rebranded as Deep Blue, it beat the reigning human world chess champion in 1997.\n\nAlphaGo defeated a European Go champion in October 2015, and defeated one of the world's top players, Lee Sedol, in March 2016. According to Scientific American and other sources, most observers had expected superhuman Computer Go performance to be at least a decade away.\n\nAI pioneer and economist Herbert A. Simon inaccurately predicted in 1965: \"Machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do\". Similarly, in 1970 Marvin Minsky wrote that \"Within a generation... the problem of creating artificial intelligence will substantially be solved.\"\n\nFour polls conducted in 2012 and 2013 suggested that the median estimate among experts for when AGI would arrive was 2040 to 2050, depending on the poll.\n\nThe Grace poll around 2016 found results varied depending on how the question was framed. Respondents asked to estimate \"when unaided machines can accomplish every task better and more cheaply than human workers\" gave an aggregated median answer of 45 years and a 10% chance of it occurring within 9 years. Other respondents asked to estimate \"when all occupations are fully automatable. That is, when for any occupation, machines could be built to carry out the task better and more cheaply than human workers\" estimated a median of 122 years and a 10% probability of 20 years. The median response for when \"AI researcher\" could be fully automated was around 90 years. No link was found between seniority and optimism, but Asian researchers were much more optimistic than North American researchers on average; Asians predicted 30 years on average for \"accomplish every task\", compared with the 74 years predicted by North Americans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24184425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24184425", "title": "Rafael Ángel Rondón Márquez", "text": "Rafael Ángel Rondón Márquez\n\nRafael Ángel Rondón Márquez, better known as R.A. Rondón Márquez (Zea, Venezuela, 1898 - Caracas, 1966), was a Venezuelan writer and historian, author of \"Guzmán Blanco, el autócrata civilizador\" (Municipal Prize of Literature, 1945).\n\n"}
{"id": "13068369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13068369", "title": "Republic of Venezuela", "text": "Republic of Venezuela\n\nVenezuela saw ten years of military dictatorship from 1948 to 1958. After the 1948 Venezuelan coup d'état brought an end to a three-year experiment in democracy (\"El Trienio Adeco\"), a triumvirate of military personnel controlled the government until 1952, when it held presidential elections. These were free enough to produce results unacceptable to the government, leading them to be falsified and to one of the three leaders, Marcos Pérez Jiménez, assuming the Presidency. His government was brought to an end by the 1958 Venezuelan coup d'état, which saw the advent of democracy with a transitional government under Admiral Wolfgang Larrazábal in place until the December 1958 elections. Prior to the elections, three of the main political parties, Acción Democrática, COPEI and Unión Republicana Democrática, with the notable exclusion of the Communist Party of Venezuela, signed up to the Punto Fijo Pact power-sharing agreement.\n\nThis period was characterised by the alternation of political power established in the Punto Fijo Pact; by the nationalisation of the oil industry in 1976 and the creation of PDVSA, the national oil and gas company; and by the rise of new social elites. Internationally, Venezuela became a founding member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). The 1980s in particular were characterised by the flowering of art and culture and by the artistic development of the nation, especially in television. Pioneering media like RCTV made Venezuela famous with soap operas such as \"Kassandra\".\n\nAfter a military \"coup d'état\" on 23 January 1958 sent General Marcos Pérez Jiménez into exile, Venezuela's three main political parties signed the Punto Fijo Pact. The ensuing elections brought Rómulo Betancourt, who had been president from 1945 to 1948, back to power. Betancourt's government halted grants to multinational oil companies, created a Venezuelan oil corporation, and helped establish OPEC in 1960, an initiative led by Development Minister Juan Pablo Pérez Alfonso. The administration also introduced a new constitution in 1961, dividing the government into executive, legislative, and judicial branches; pursued agricultural reform; and promoted an international doctrine in which Venezuela only recognised governments elected by popular vote.\n\nThe new order had its opponents. On 24 June 1960, Betancourt was wounded in an assassination attempt led by the Dominican dictator Rafael Leónidas Trujillo. Around the same time, the left-wingers excluded from the Punto Fijo Pact began an armed invasion that was backed by the Communist Party of Cuba and its leader, Fidel Castro.\n\nIn 1963, Raúl Leoni was elected to succeed Betancourt as president. Leoni's government became known for public works and cultural development, but was confronted with continuous guerrilla warfare.\n\nRafael Caldera won the next election. Before he took office in 1969, the Rupununi Uprising broke out in neighboring Guyana. The border controversy was resolved with the Port of Spain Protocol in 1970. Additionally, a truce with the guerrillas allowed their reintegration into political life.\n\nCarlos Andrés Pérez took office in 1974, amid an oil crisis that had begun the previous year and had increased the global price of oil from $3 per barrel to nearly $12 per barrel. Venezuela nationalised its iron industry in 1975 and its oil industry the following year.\n\nLuis Herrera Campins was elected to the presidency in 1979, with the country in deep debt and bound by International Monetary Fund demands. In 1983, the Venezuelan currency, the bolívar, was devalued on what became known as Black Friday, unleashing an economic crisis. The subsequent government of Jaime Lusinchi did little to counter the crisis. Corruption increased, and the Caldas Corvettes crisis in 1987, sparked by a sovereignty dispute in the Gulf of Venezuela, generated one of the biggest moments of tension between Venezuela and Colombia.\n\nPérez was elected again in 1988 and, looking to solve the recession, adopted economic measures that set off major protests, the biggest of which was the Caracazo wave of 1989. The same year, Venezuela held its first direct elections of governors and regional mayors.\n\nIn February and November 1992, Hugo Chávez led two \"coup d'état\" attempts, and in 1993, Congress ousted Pérez. Octavio Lepage served as acting president for about two weeks, at which point the historian and parliamentarian Ramón José Velásquez took over the interim role.\n\nPérez proved less generous with hand-outs than previously. Despite being elected after a populist, anti-neoliberal campaign during which he described the IMF as \"a neutron bomb that killed people, but left buildings standing\" and said that World Bank economists were \"genocide workers in the pay of economic totalitarianism\", he had become a closet liberalizer and globalizer. His economic adviser was Moisés Naím, today an influential journalist in the United States and the editor of the journal \"Foreign Policy\", and he defined the presidential economic agenda, which included no price controls, privatizations, and laws, or their elimination, to attract foreign investment. Naím began at the lowest rung of economic liberalization, which was freeing controls on prices and a ten percent increase in that of gasoline, which in Venezuela is sacrosantly very low. The increase in petrol price fed into a 30 percent increase in fares for public transport In February 1989, barely into his second term, Pérez faced a popular uprising, which he had the army crush with a death toll of 276, according to government officials. It is known as the \"caracazo\" (from \"Caracas\"), where the rioting and looting was on an unforeseen scale.\n\nPérez and Naím went on with their reforms, which had the full backing of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the Venezuelan economy started picking up, but only slightly and Venezuelans, who are not very keen on globalization, were resentful. Rightly or wrongly, Pérez, who after his first presidency was a rich man, was singled out as Mr. Corruption himself.\n\nThe MBR-200 officers started plotting seriously and on 4 February 1992 they struck. Hugo Chávez was a lieutenant-colonel, but other generals were also involved in the coup attempt. The plan involved members of the military overwhelming military locations and communication installations and then establishing Rafael Caldera in power once Perez was captured and assassinated. They almost had him cornered in the presidential palace, but he managed to escape to the presidential residence and from there, loyal troops cornerered Chávez arrested him. In exchange for prompting his co-conspirators to lay down their arms, Chávez, fully uniformed and unbowed, was allowed to speak on television to the entire nation in a moment that captured Venezuela's attention and granted him a place on the nation's political stage.\n\nOn 27 November 1992, higher ranked officers tried to overthrow Pérez but the conspiracy was easily put down.\n\nPérez's downfall came when a legal process was begun to force to him reveal how he had used a secret but legal presidential fund, which he resolutely resisted. With the Supreme Court and Congress ranged against him, Pérez was imprisoned, for a while in a detention center, and then under house arrest. He handed the presidency in 1993 to Ramón J. Velásquez, an Adeco politician and historian who had been his presidential secretary. Though nobody has charged Velásquez with corruption, his son was involved in an illegal pardon for drug-traffickers, but was not charged. Velázquez oversaw the elections of 1993, and these were familiar and unique.\n\nRafael Caldera, who had been candidate for the presidency six times and won once, wanted to have another go, but COPEI this time resisted, led by Herrera Campins, and Caldera founded his own brand-new political movement, called Convergencia. COPEI chose a mediocrity from within its ranks. The Adecos chose the pardo Claudio Fermín. Petkoff had seen the futility of trying again and backed Caldera. Even Velázquez got into the act. When the returns were in, Caldera won and in the process shattered the strict bipolarity thesis. Abstentions reached a record of 40%. The main reason Caldera, who was 86 years old, won was in essence the same as for Pérez's victory in 1973: everybody knew him and the middle classes, probably decisive for the only time in Venezuela's history, thought that he could do the miracle that had been expected of Pérez, that is, in some manner to get the country back on track to the \"good old times\".\n\nCaldera assumed the presidency for the second time in 1994 and had to confront the Venezuelan banking crisis of 1994. He re-imposed exchange controls, which Pérez's administration had lifted as part of a general financial liberalisation (unaccompanied by effective regulation, which contributed to the banking crisis). The economy had suffered under the falling oil price, which led to a collapse in government revenues. The steel corporation Sidor was privatized, and the economy continued to plummet. Fulfilling an election promise, Caldera released Chávez and pardoned all the military and civilian conspirators during the Pérez regime. The economic crisis continued, and by the Venezuelan presidential election, 1998 the traditional political parties had become unpopular; an initial front-runner for the presidency in late 1997 was Irene Saez. Chávez gained popularity amid the financial turmoil and was elected president in 1998. His administration promoted a new constitution, which was approved by referendum in December 1999. The adoption of the new constitution in 1999 ended the Puntofijismo, establishing the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.\n\nThe constitution of 1961 divided Venezuela into states, a capital district, federal territories, and federal dependencies. Over the years, some territories have been elevated to the status of states, including Delta Amacuro in 1991 and Amazonas in 1994. Each state has a governor and a legislative assembly.\n\nSignificant advances in the medical sciences took place during the Punto Fijo pact period. Jacinto Convit developed vaccines against leprosy and leishmaniasis, and Baruj Benacerraf was a co-recipient of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1980 for his immunological research. In the field of technology, Humberto Fernández Morán invented the diamond knife and contributed to the development of the electron microscope.\n\nThe 1980s and 1990s were also a golden age of television in Venezuela. A number of Venezuelan telenovelas became popular internationally: \"Leonela\" (1983), \"Cristal\" (1984), \"Abigail\" (1988), \"Kassandra\" (1992), and \"Por estas calles\" (1992), all from RCTV; and \"Las Amazonas\" (1985), \"Ka Ina\" (1995), and \"El país de las mujeres\" (1998) from Venevisión.\n\nSeveral Venezuelans won international beauty contests: Maritza Sayalero (1979), Irene Sáez (1981), Bárbara Palacios Teyde (1986), and Alicia Machado (1996). Musicians like Franco de Vita, Ricardo Montaner, and Karina also became known on the international scene.\n"}
{"id": "32884291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32884291", "title": "Salvador José Mañer", "text": "Salvador José Mañer\n\nSalvador José Mañer (1676–1751) was a Spanish journalist, historian and writer.\n\n"}
{"id": "41081512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41081512", "title": "Santiago Key Ayala", "text": "Santiago Key Ayala\n\nSantiago Key Ayala (Caracas, April 25, 1874 – Caracas, August 21, 1959) was a historian, writer and diplomat, and is considered one of the most important Venezuelan intellectuals from the first half of the 20th century.\n\nSantiago Key Ayala was born in Caracas on April 25, 1874. His parents were Fernando Key Rodríguez and Ana Ayala Anzola. He studied philosophy, math, and natural sciences at the Central University of Venezuela. At this time he began his literary career by writing for the journal \"El Cojo Ilustrado\". He then studied engineering and political science, and wrote articles for the magazine Cosmópolis, a publication that helped spread modernismo in Venezuela. Although Key Ayala was at first influenced by the ideas of modernismo, he gradually moved away from the movement, finding his own voice in a prose more in line with his academic and classic spirit.\n\nIn the 1940s, Key Ayala collected all of the work he had written in a few volumes, which included monographs, articles, as well as research and discourse that had been previously published in the form of brochures and booklets. Alongside his intellectual work, he held various positions as an officer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, both in Venezuela and abroad. One of these positions was Venezuela's Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the United States in Italy in 1936. Another diplomatic function was to represent the country at the Plenipotentiary Conference for boundary issues with Colombia (1920-1921). He was also a delegate to the Assembly of the League of Nations, the Permanent Court of International Justice, and the Pan-American Conference in Havana. In 1914 he became a member of the Venezuelan Academy of Language and in 1916 he joined the National Academy of History. As a historian, he stands out for his research on Simon Bolivar and other Latin American figures. His books include: \"Vida ejemplar de Simón Bolívar\" (for which he obtained the Municipal Prize for Literature in 1942), \"Luz de Bolívar\" and \"Cuba y Marti\".\n\nIn addition to writing about historical figures, he was greatly interested in literary research and criticism, which prompted him to write the book \"Bajo el signo del Ávila\" (1949), about some contemporary writers of his time, including Manuel Díaz Rodríguez, Pedro Emilio Coll, Andrés Bello, Aristides Rojas and Juan Antonio Pérez Bonalde. Since 1933 he wrote a series of books about Venezuelan history, including \"Series hemero-bibliográficas\", \"Aluvión hemerográfico\", \"Cateos de bibliografía\". In 1950 he was awarded the National Prize for Literature. His selected works were published in 1955 in a book titled \"Obras Selectas\" (Ediciones EDIME, 1245 pages).\n\nSantiago Key Ayala published his work under the name \"S. Key-Ayala\" or \"Santiago Key-Ayala\", which were strictly not a pseudonyms but simply variants of his actual name.\n\nKey Ayala died in Caracas on August 21, 1959.\n\n"}
{"id": "6921205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6921205", "title": "Saqqara Bird", "text": "Saqqara Bird\n\nThe Saqqara Bird is a bird-shaped artifact made of sycamore wood, discovered during the 1898 excavation of the Pa-di-Imen tomb in Saqqara, Egypt. It has been dated to approximately 200 BCE, and is now housed in the Museum of Egyptian Antiquities in Cairo. The Saqqara Bird has a wingspan of and weighs . Its function is not understood because of a lack of period documentation.\n\nSome think the Saqqara Bird may be a ceremonial object because the falcon, the bird after which the Saqqara Bird is modeled, is the form most commonly used to represent several of the most important gods of Egyptian mythology, most notably the falcon deity Horus and the sun deity Ra Horakhty. Others have posited it may have been a toy for an elite child, or that it could have functioned as a weather vane. Some have also speculated it may have been used as a sort of boomerang, as such technology was common and well known in ancient Egypt in the form of a throwing stick used for hunting waterfowl. But the most likely hypothesis is that this bird was positioned on the masthead of sacred boats used during the Opet Festival. Reliefs showing those boats are found in the Temple of Khonsu at Karnak and date to the late New Kingdom.\n\nSome have suggested that the Saqqara Bird may represent evidence that knowledge of the principles of aviation existed many centuries before such are generally believed to have first been discovered. Egyptian physician, archaeologist, parapsychologist and dowser Khalil Messiha has speculated that the ancient Egyptians developed the first aircraft. He wrote that it \"represents a diminutive of an original monoplane still present in Saqqara.\" He also claimed that the Saqqara Bird could function as a glider if it had a horizontal tailplane, which he \"suppose[d] was lost,\" and noted that the Egyptians often placed miniaturized representations of their technology in their tombs.\n\nMessiha contended that the Saqqara Bird differs significantly from other statues and models of birds housed in the Cairo museum. According to Messiha, the Saqqara Bird has a vertical stabilizer which is unlike the generally horizontal shape of a real bird's tail. Richard P. Hallion described this fin as \"shaped as if the bird had twisted its tail feathers.\" It is also legless and has wings set at an angle Messiha sees as similar to that of modern aircraft, which he considered an attempt to create aerodynamic lift.\n\nIn spite of these claims, however, no ancient Egyptian aircraft have ever been found, nor has any other evidence suggesting their existence come to light. As a result, the theory that the Saqqara Bird is a model of a flying machine is not accepted by mainstream Egyptologists. Hallion notes that it is \"far too heavy and unstable itself to fly.\"\n\nAerodynamics expert Simon Sanderson tested a replica model in a wind tunnel without a tailplane and found that it produced “four times the glider’s own weight in lift.” In Liverpool University, Sanderson then subjected it with the data from wind tunnel and added a stabilizing tailplane to a flight simulator meant to replicate “the same trials as a modern fighter jet.” In virtual air streams and conditions in Egypt, the Saqqara Bird actually flew quite well. “Over 2,000 years after the ancient Egyptians carved this mysterious bird, modern technology has proved beyond doubt that it could have flown.” \n\nMessiha claims \"The lower part of the tail is broken [i.e. flat] which I think may be an evidence that the tail was attached there.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "39176565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39176565", "title": "Serhiy Sobolyev", "text": "Serhiy Sobolyev\n\nSerhiy Vladyslavovych Sobolev (; born September 5, 1961 in Zaporizhia) is a Ukrainian politician. He is a member of the Verkhovna Rada (parliament) and acting Batkivshchyna faction leader.\n\nSobolev graduated from the Zaporozhye State Pedagogical Institute (now – Zaporizhzhya National University in 1983 with a specialty in History, before earning a second degree from the Law School at Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv in 1996.\n\nHis work experience began in 1978, at the Zaporozhye defense plant \"Gamma\".\n\nFrom 1983–1985 he served in the Armed Forces.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1986 he worked at the Dnieper electrode plant in Zaporozhye.\n\nIn 1986–1990 was teaching history in Zaporozhye Pedagogical School number 1.\n\nBy July 1990, he had become a member of the Communist Party. He later moved to the opposition bench.\n\nFrom 1990–1994, he was national deputy of Ukraine 1st Convocation by Khortitskiy Constituency number 184, Zaporizhzhya region. He was the leader of the group \"Democratic Revival of Ukraine\" (a member of the same party) and a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Education and Science.\n\nFrom 1994–1998 he was the National Deputy of Ukraine's 2nd Convocation. He headed the parliamentary group \"Reforms\". He was a member of the Committee on Legal Policy and Legal Reform and Deputy Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Verkhovna Rada Committee on privatization. At his suggestion a special parliamentary committee investigated the management of the Black Sea Shipping Company (Company \"Blasko\") that suspended the presidential decree of Leonid Kravchuk on government bonds. He participated in the development of the Ukraine Constitution and various laws.\n\nIn October 1997 he was one of the leaders of the newly formed center-right party \"Reforms and Order\".\n\nFrom December 1999 to April 2001 he served as adviser to the Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko.\n\nFrom 2002–2006 he was national deputy of Ukraine fourth convocation, selected by Yushchenko's \"Our Ukraine\" (16th on the list). He was Chairman of the Subcommittee on Legislative Support of executive power and civil service (in administrative reform) Committee on Legal Policy. From 3 March to 22 September 2005 he was the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine in the Verkhovna Rada. He resigned in protest against the dismissal of Government of Yulia Tymoshenko President of Ukraine. In September 2005 he led a faction of PRO.\n\nAt the next March 2006 elections Party \"Reforms and Order\" in the Civic party \"PORA-PRP\" failed to overcome three percent passing bar. However, in the fall of 2007 early elections Sergey Sobolev joined the election race as part of Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc (at the time of the election, he was deputy chairman of a PRP-led group of experts at Kiev Ltd. \"Central European agency\"). In the sixth convocation he headed the subcommittee on cooperation with state agencies, local governments, enterprises, institutions and organizations of the Committee for Justice, a member of the Permanent Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Also, he was the first deputy head of the fraction.\n\nOn 20 February 2010 Sobolev became the leader of PRO. By that time he was the head of Zaporizhia Oblast party organization.\n\nOn 17 March 2010 – he became the head of the opposition of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is the de facto group of Yulia Tymoshenko.\n\nAccording to Arseny Yatsenyuk in October 2012, if he had won the democratic opposition forces in the parliamentary elections he would have become prime minister.\n\nSince 12 December in the 7th Convocation he was national deputy of the All-Ukrainian Union \"Fatherland\", number 8 on the list. He was the first deputy head of the faction. He was a member of the Committee on Legal Policy. On 21 January 2013 he was elected Vice-President of the Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.\n\nHis party merged into Batkivshchyna in June 2013.\n\nOn 20 March 2014 Sobolev replaced Yatsenyuk as Batkivshchyna faction leader in parliament (due to Yatsenyuk's new position as prime minister in the Yatsenyuk Government).\n\nFollowing annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation Sobolev drafted a bill \"On the rights and freedoms of citizens in the temporarily occupied territories\" that postulated that Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol should be regarded as \"temporarily occupied by Russia\". The original bill would permit entry and exit from the Crimea only with a special permit and punish \"cooperation with the occupying state\" with imprisonment. On 15 April 2014 the amended bill passed.\n\nHis father is Vladislav Anatoliyvych (1935–) a worker at Zaporozhye aluminum plant and Head of DST. His mother is Ina Mikolayivna (1935-) a retired pediatrician. His wife Nina (1962-) is a history teacher. They have five children – Julia (1983), Elena (1986) another son and twins.\n\nHe is fond of football, tennis and skiing and is fluent in English.\n\nIn March 2000, he was recognized as a civil servant of the third rank.\n\nHe was awarded Commander of the Order of merit III degree in August 2005.\n"}
{"id": "17116069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17116069", "title": "Silva rerum", "text": "Silva rerum\n\nSilva rerum (from Latin \"silva rerum\" — forest of things; plural: \"silvae rerum\"), polonized sylwa or and sometimes described as a home chronicle was a specific type of a book, a multi-generational chronicle, kept by many Polish and Lithuanian noble families from the 16th through 18th centuries. Some authors of modern Polish postmodern literature try to create works similar to the silvae rerum of the past.\n\nIn historical Poland it was written by members of the szlachta (Polish nobility) as a diary or memoir for the entire family, recording family traditions, among other matters; they were not intended for a wider audience or printing (although there were a few exceptions); some were also lent to friends of the family, who were allowed to add their comments to them. It was added to by many generations, and contained various information: diary-type entries on current events, memoirs, letters, political speeches, copies of legal documents, gossips, jokes and anecdotes, financial documents, economic information (price of grain, etc.), philosophical musings, poems, genealogical trees, advice (agricultural, medical, moral) for the descendants and others. The wealth of information in silva is staggering; they contain anything that their authors wished to record for future generations. Some silvae rerum were of truly enormous proportions, with thousands of pages (Gloger cites one of 1764 pages) although most common size is from 500 to 800 pages. They were written from 16th century (the earliest entries are from the times of the king Stefan Batory) to the mid-18th century (times of the Saxon kings in Poland).\n\nSilvae rerum were the source of our modern knowledge of poems by such writers as Andrzej Morsztyn, and even long diaries, including the famous \"Chocim War\" by Wacław Potocki and the \"Diaries\" by Jan Chryzostom Pasek. They also contain a wealth of information about the customs of Polish nobility of the past centuries. A major collection of silvas perished during the destruction of Polish libraries by Germans in World War II.\n\nIn modern Poland, a type of postmodern literature tries to recreate the feeling of sylwa in their works.\n\nSilva Rerum (2008-2016) is the title of a four part saga of internationally bestselling historical novels by Lithuanian writer Kristina Sabaliauskaitė about the noble Norvaiša family set in Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1659-1795.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42742573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42742573", "title": "Society for Medieval Feminist Scholarship", "text": "Society for Medieval Feminist Scholarship\n\nThe Society for Medieval Feminist Scholarship (SMFS) is an academic organization which \"promotes the study of the Patristic Age, the Middle Ages, and the Early Modern era from the perspective of gender studies, women's studies, and feminist studies\". Its development followed the rise of the study of medieval women in the 1970s and 1980s, and sought to increase the number of and sponsor papers about medieval women, and feminist theory driven scholarship, at the largest international medieval studies conferences, Kalamazoo and Leeds IMC.\n\nThe origins of SMFS lay in the \"Medieval Feminist Newsletter\", begun in 1986 by the organization's founders, E. Jane Burns, Roberta (Bonnie) Krueger, Elizabeth Robertson, and Thelma Fenster.\n\nThe group became SMFS in 1992, driven by a desire to establish more formal networks for communication, funding, and with a view to producing publications.\n\nSince 1999, SFMS has produced \"Medieval Feminist Forum\", a peer-reviewed journal which became an online-only journal in 2009.\n\nThe organization is affiliated with the MLA and the AHA and has sponsored sessions at annual meetings of these societies. SMFS has also sponsored sessions at other major international conferences, including the International Congress on Medieval Studies in Kalamazoo, the International Medieval Congress at the University of Leeds, the Medieval Academy of America's annual meeting, and the Australia & New Zealand Association for Medieval & Early Modern Studies.\n\nSMFS provides a Mentoring Exchange at most major conferences where it has a presence. It also awards several annual prizes, including one for the Best Graduate Essay, Best First Article of Feminist Scholarship on the Middle Ages, and Best First Book of Feminist Scholarship on the Middle Ages. It also manages a Listserv, MEDFEM-L.\n\nIn 2014, SMFS hosted a at the 49th Annual International Congress on Medieval Studies at Kalamazoo, where members were encouraged to contribute their time and expertise to adding and editing articles in their fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "10236735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10236735", "title": "Society for Social Studies of Science", "text": "Society for Social Studies of Science\n\nThe Society for Social Studies of Science (4S) is a non-profit scholarly association devoted to the social studies of science and technology (STS). It was founded in 1975 and as of 2008 its international membership exceeds 1,200. In 2016, over 2,000 people attended the society's annual meeting in Barcelona, co-hosted by the European Association for the Study of Science and Technology (EASST). Its 40th anniversary celebration at Cornell University was attended by notable STS scholars such as Trevor Pinch, Sheila Jasanoff, and Bruno Latour.\n\nIts charter was drafted in 1975, and its first President was the American sociologist Robert K. Merton. It is currently based out of the Department of Sociology at Louisiana State University. It publishes the quarterly academic journal \"Science, Technology, & Human Values\" and has a large annual conference attended by hundreds of scholars from a diverse range of fields, including Science and technology studies, sociology of science, science studies, history of science, philosophy of science, anthropology of science, economics, political science, psychology, as well as science educators and scientists.\n\nIt gives out the Ludwik Fleck Prize annually for \"best book in the area of science and technology studies\", the Rachel Carson Prize for \"a work of social or political relevance\", the John Desmond Bernal Prize for an individual who made \"a distinguished contribution to the field\", and the Nicholas C. Mullins Award for \"outstanding scholarship in science and technology studies\" by a graduate student.\n\nAs of 2018 the President of the society is Kim Fortun. 4S is governed by a nine-person council as well as its president.\n"}
{"id": "3452112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3452112", "title": "Sten Lindroth", "text": "Sten Lindroth\n\nSten Hjalmar Lindroth (28 December 1914 in Lund – 1 September 1980) was a Swedish historian of learning and science.\n\nLindroth was born in the university town of Lund in Southern Sweden, but grew up and went to school in Gothenburg after his father Hjalmar Lindroth had been appointed to the Chair of Nordic languages at Gothenburg University. After finishing school in Gothenburg at Göteborgs högre latinläroverk, he matriculated at Uppsala University in 1933 and eventually became a student of Johan Nordström, holder of the Emilia and Gustaf Carlberg Chair of the history of ideas and learning, the first of its kind at Uppsala. Lindroth eventually completed a monumental, 500-page dissertation on the history of paracelsianism in Sweden until the middle of the 17th century, defended in 1943. During his student years he was also active in the Juvenalorden and the liberal student society Verdandi, for he which he also served as president.\n\nHe spent the next decade on a history of the mining and copper production at Stora Kopparberget and a biography of the physicist and inventor Christopher Polhem, and several shorter publications on various scientific-historical topics. In 1957 he succeeded Nordström as Carlberg Professor. His later publications included a book on the early history of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (1967), of which he became a member in 1966, a history of Swedish learning from the Middle Ages until the Gustavian period (the fourth and last volume was left unfinished but completed and edited by his former student Gunnar Eriksson) and an overview of the history of Uppsala University (1976), published on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the university.\n\nSten Lindroth was elected a Member of the Swedish Academy in 1968.\n\n"}
{"id": "229283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229283", "title": "Tartary", "text": "Tartary\n\nTartary (Latin: \"Tartaria\") or Great Tartary (Latin: \"Tartaria Magna\") was a country in northern and central Asia stretching eastwards from the Caspian Sea and from the Ural Mountains to the Pacific Ocean, inhabited mostly by Turkic peoples.\n\nThe vast country spanned much of the Pontic-Caspian steppe, Volga-Urals, the Caucasus, Siberia, Central Asia, Mongolia, and Manchuria.\n\nTartary was often divided into sections with prefixes denoting the name of the ruling power or the geographical location. Thus, western Siberia was \"Muscovite\" or \"Russian Tartary\", Xinjiang and Mongolia were \"Chinese\" or \"Cathay Tartary\", western Central Asia (later Russian Central Asia) was known as \"Central Tartary\", and Manchuria was \"East Tartary\".\n\nAs the Russian Empire expanded eastward and more of Tartary became known to Europeans, the term fell into disuse.\nEuropean areas north of the Black Sea inhabited by Tataric peoples were known as Little Tartary.\n\nThe \"Komul Desert of the Tartary\" was mentioned by Immanuel Kant in his \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\", as a \"great far-reaching solitude\".\n\nEast Tartary and Maritime Tartary are old names for the Manchu-inhabited territory extending from the confluence of the River Amur with the River Ussuri to Sakhalin Island. This area is now the Primorsky Krai with Vladivostok as regional administrative center.\n\nThese lands were once occupied by the Mohe tribes and Jurchen nation; and also by various old kingdoms including Goryeo, Balhae, Liao and the Khitan kingdoms.\n\nAccording to Sheng-Wu-Chi's Ming dynasty chronicle (\"Our dynasty is informed by military realizations\"), in this land the Tungus Weji, Warka and Kurka tribes were established. Later these were unified in Manchu Qing Empire with Nurhaci as their leader and founder. These lands were lost to Russia under the Treaty of Peking.\n\nNearest this land lies the Ku-Ye-Dao () or Fu-Sang (Hangul: 후상) island, better known as Karafuto or Sakhalin; in recent times Russian archaeologists have found here remains of ancient cities with walls and castles. These may correspond with the ancient Manchu nation, or possibly during Mongol or Tungus times, or the Balhae kingdom.\n\nThese lands were visited by Japanese explorers, Mamiya Rinzo and others, who reported on the various important cities and ports, such as Haishenwei (present day Vladivostok). From these lands and nearby Hulun (Amur area), the Japanese have claimed North Asian ancestors, who settled North Japan.\n\nOther ancient cities in the region are: Tetyukhe (now Dalnegorsk) and probably Deleng, an important commercial imperial post according to some records.\n\nIn the novel \"\" by Vladimir Nabokov, Tartary is the name of a large country on the fictional planet of Antiterra. Russia is Tartary's approximate geographic counterpart on Terra, Antiterra's twin world apparently identical to \"our\" Earth, but doubly fictional in the context of the novel.\n\nIn Puccini's last opera, \"Turandot\", Calaf's father Timur is the deposed King of the Tartars.\n\nIn Philip Pullman's \"His Dark Materials\" novels, the European main characters often express fear of Tartars, a term apparently referring to many Asian races, as the story takes place far from Mongolia.\n\nIn \"Macbeth\", by William Shakespeare, the witches include Tartars' lips in their potion.\n\nIn Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\", Dr. Frankenstein pursues the monster \"amidst the wilds of Tartary and Russia, although he still evaded me, I have ever followed in his track\".\n\nIn \"Great Expectations\", by Charles Dickens, Herbert Pocket describes Estella Havisham as a Tartar because she was \"hard and haughty and capricious to the last degree, and has been brought up by Miss Havisham to wreak revenge on all the male sex\".\n\nIn \"David Copperfield\" by Charles Dickens, the ruthless boarding school headmaster, Mr. Creakle, describes himself as a Tartar.\n\nIn \"The Pied Piper of Hamelin\" by Robert Browning, the Pied Piper mentions Tartary as one of his credentials in pest removal to the Mayor of Hamelin. \"In Tartary I freed the Cham, last June, from his huge swarms of gnats\".\n\nIn his short work with E. Hoffmann Price, \"Through the Gates of the Silver Key\", H. P. Lovecraft briefly mentions Tartary: \"Upon their cloaked heads there now seemed to rest tall, uncertainly coloured mitres, strangely suggestive of those on certain nameless figures chiselled by a forgotten sculptor along the living cliffs of a high, forbidden mountain in Tartary\".\n\n\"The Squire's Tale\" from Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\" is set in the royal court of Tartary.\n\nIn Jonathan Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\", the eponymic hero refers to his travels in Tartary on two occasions, and suggests that the then modern geographers of Europe were \"in a great error, by supposing nothing but sea between Japan and California; for it was ever my opinion, that there must be a balance of earth to counterpoise the great continent of Tartary\".\n\nL. Frank Baum's origin story of Santa Claus, \"The Life and Adventures of Santa Claus\", features mythical antagonists from Tartary who oppose Santa's compassionate gift giving practices. They are described as the Three-Eyed Giants of Tartary.\n\nIn Matthew Arnold's poem \"Sohrab and Rustum\", the poem begins with \"And the first grey of morning fill'd the east, And the fog rose out of the Oxus stream. But all the Tartar camp along the stream Was hush'd, and still the men were plunged in sleep.\"\n\nIn Walter de la Mare's poem \"If I were lord of Tartary\", Tartary is an imaginary land full of happiness.\n\nIn Washington Irving's short story \"Rip Van Winkle\", the title character would \"sit on a wet rock, with a rod as long and heavy as a Tartar's lance\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25644584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25644584", "title": "The Restorers", "text": "The Restorers\n\nThe Restorers (sometimes referred to as The Restorers: Giving History a Future...) is a 2003 documentary film by Adam White about restoration of vintage war planes ranging from the F4U Corsair to the B-17 \"Yankee Lady\". White interviewed dozens of people who have dedicated much of their lives and thousands of dollars to restore planes for museums, air shows, or their own personal collections. The subjects range from people who restore planes in their own garages to major corporations; the end results range from planes that are used in exhibitions and air shows to planes that are restored as racing vehicles.\n\nIn 2005, White earned a regional 2004 Emmy Award for the film. The film had been released July 18–20, 2003 at the Neon Movies in Dayton, Ohio in conjunction with the Vectren Dayton Air Show. In February 2004, the film was made available in both DVD and VHS format. On March 3, 2004 it was screened at the Fargo Film Festival where it won Documentary Feature Runner-Up award. It debuted on television on Western Reserve Public Media April 13, 2004 and was reaired on June 16. The Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) broadcast made the film eligible for the 2004 Best Special Programming regional Emmy Award by the Cleveland Regional chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, which it won. The film had limited national PBS broadcasts in 2006 and 2008. While producing this film, White stumbled upon the restoration efforts of the Red Tail Project, which led to the production of \"Red Tail Reborn\".\n\n"}
{"id": "319298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319298", "title": "Toque", "text": "Toque\n\nA toque ( or ) is a type of hat with a narrow brim or no brim at all.\n\nToques were popular from the 13th to the 16th century in Europe, especially France. The mode was revived in the 1930s. Now it is primarily known as the traditional headgear for professional cooks, except in Canada where the term is primarily used for knit caps.\nThe word has been known in English since 1505. It came through the Medieval French toque (15th century), presumably by the way of the Spanish \"toca\" \"woman's headdress\", from Arabic *\"taqa\" 'طاقة' for \"opening\". and \"طاقية\" \"taqia\" for \"hat\" originally for something \"round\" that has an opening. \n\nThe word toque is Breton for \"hat\". The spelling with the \"que\" is Middle Breton, and Modern Breton is spelled tok. Old Breton spells the word toc. The word was borrowed into the French language both for the chef's uniform and the knit cap.\nA toque blanche (French for \"white hat\"), often shortened to toque, is a tall, round, pleated, starched white hat worn by chefs.\n\nThe toque most likely originated as the result of the gradual evolution of head coverings worn by cooks throughout the centuries. Their roots are sometimes traced to the \"casque à meche\" (stocking cap) worn by 18th-century French chefs. The colour of the \"casque à meche\" denoted the rank of the wearer. Boucher, the personal chef of the French statesman Talleyrand, was the first to insist on white toques for sanitary reasons.\n\nThe modern toque is popularly believed to have originated with the French chef Marie-Antoine Carême (1784–1833), who stiffened the \"casque à meche\" with cardboard .\n\n\nThe pleated, low, round hat worn in French universities the equivalent of the mortarboard or tam at British and American universities is also called a toque.\n\nIn the Napoleonic era, the French first empire replaced the coronets of traditional (\"royal\") heraldry with a rigorously standardized system (as other respects of \"Napoleonic\" coats of arms) of toques, reflecting the rank of the bearer. Thus a Napoleonic duke used a toque with seven ostrich feathers and three lambrequins, a count a toque with five feathers and two lambrequins, a baron three feathers and one lambrequin, a knight only one ostrich feather (see Nobility of the First French Empire).\n\nToque is also used for a hard-type hat or helmet, worn for riding, especially in equestrian sports, often black and covered with black velvet.\n\nIn Canada, \"tuque\" is the common name for a knitted winter hat, or watch cap (sometimes called a beanie in other parts of the world); the spelling \"touque\", although not recognized by the Canadian Oxford Dictionary, is also sometimes seen in written English. The Canadian-English term was assimilated from Canadian-French \"tuque\". \"Toque\" first appeared in writing around 1870. \n\nThe fashion is said to have originated with the \"coureurs de bois\", French and Métis fur traders, who kept their woollen nightcaps on for warmth during cold winter days. Such hats are known in other English-speaking countries by a variety of names, including \"beanie\", \"watch cap\" or \"stocking cap\"; the terms \"tuque\" and \"toque\" are unique to Canada and northern areas of the United States close to the Canada–United States border.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43003122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43003122", "title": "Viking coinage", "text": "Viking coinage\n\nViking coins are those coins designed, minted and circulated as currency by Viking rulers during the Viking Age of northern Europe.\n\nThe Viking kingdom of Jorvik (York) in northern England, for example, employed skilled craftsmen and moneyers to produce coinage during the first half of the 10th century. Despite the fact that many coins minted for Scandinavian rulers across the Viking world were almost purely imitative of other contemporary Western European currencies, several of the York designs are nonetheless unique for their time, bearing realistic motifs that include a sword, bow and arrow, a standard, a bird (perhaps one of Odin's ravens?) and Thor's Hammer. They implemented the method of currency by conquering many European countries and civilizing them which improved the economy for many places. \n\n"}
