{"id": "28690853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28690853", "title": "Abortion in Serbia", "text": "Abortion in Serbia\n\nAbortion in Serbia was legalized in its current form (in Serbia and the other former Yugoslav republics) on October 7, 1977. Abortion is available on-demand for women whose pregnancies have not exceeded the tenth week, and in the case of risk to life or health of woman (no limit specified), or when the pregnancy has resulted from a sex offence (including rape or incest), or in case of fetal impairment up to twenty weeks. Minors under 16 require parental consent before undergoing an abortion. Some estimates suggest that Serbia has the highest abortion rate in Europe. Official data from the Belgrade Institute of Public Health claims that 23,000 abortions are performed in Serbia annually, but unofficial data suggests a number as high as 150,000. Although abortions performed after 10 weeks must be done only if there is a specific approved reason, in practice, abortions on demand are performed later than the legal limit - women often obtain fake medical documentation, for example, a note from a psychiatrist stating that they are mentally unstable. Furthermore, doctors who want to perform abortions have to obtain a license; because the process of obtaining this license can be strict and complicated many doctors work illegally without a license, and do not report the abortions that they perform. Until recently, abortion was a leading method of birth control in what is now the country of Serbia. Lack of sex education, coupled with little to no knowledge of contraception methods caused a large number of unwanted pregnancies, and with them, a high number of terminations. In the 1970s and 1980s, approximately 12 percent of sexually active women in Serbia used modern contraception such as condoms.\n\nIn 2009, 23.2% of pregnancies in Serbia ended in abortion. The highest year on record was 1989, when 68% of pregnancies were terminated. As recently as 2006, Serbia continued to have the highest rate of abortions out of the former Yugoslav republics.\n\nMifepristone (medical abortion) was registered in 2002.\n\nA Pew Research poll from 2017 showed that 63% of Serbians believe abortion should be legal in all/most cases, while 31% think it should be illegal in all/most cases.\n"}
{"id": "8844881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8844881", "title": "Alcohol enema", "text": "Alcohol enema\n\nAn alcohol enema, also known colloquially as butt-chugging, is the act of introducing alcohol into the rectum and colon via the anus. This method of alcohol consumption can be dangerous and even deadly because it leads to faster intoxication since the alcohol is absorbed directly into the bloodstream and neutralizes the body's ability to reject the toxin by vomiting.\n\nTwo reported alcohol enema techniques are via an alcohol-soaked tampon or a funnel, such as a beer bong, inserted into the rectum.\n\nAn alcohol enema is a faster method of alcohol intoxication since the alcohol is absorbed directly into the bloodstream. The lower gastrointestinal tract lacks the alcohol dehydrogenase enzyme present in the stomach and liver that breaks down ethanol into acetylaldehyde, which is actually more toxic than ethanol (drinking alcohol) and is responsible for most chronic effects of ethanol. When rectally absorbed, ethanol will still eventually arrive at the liver, but the high alcohol content could overwhelm the organ. Additionally, consuming the alcohol rectally neutralizes the body's ability to reject the toxin by vomiting.\n\nIn May 2004, a 58-year-old machine shop owner of Lake Jackson, Texas, died after his wife administered an alcohol enema of sherry. In total, the man consumed two large bottles of sherry, containing about three liters of the alcohol. He suffered from alcoholism and had difficulty ingesting alcohol orally because of a painful throat ailment. His wife was indicted on a charge of negligent homicide. In August 2007, prosecutors dropped the charges due to insufficient evidence.\n"}
{"id": "12496744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12496744", "title": "Bahrain Red Crescent Society", "text": "Bahrain Red Crescent Society\n\nBahrain Red Crescent Society was established in 1971, via a charter issued by Sheikh Isa bin Salman Al Khalifa, the Amir of Bahrain at the time. The society was recognized by the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies on 14 September 1972. It is the 116th member of the international group since its inception in 1919. It has its headquarters in Hoora, Manama.\n\n"}
{"id": "3015726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3015726", "title": "Barnes-Jewish Hospital", "text": "Barnes-Jewish Hospital\n\nBarnes-Jewish Hospital is the largest hospital in the U.S. state of Missouri. It is the adult teaching hospital for the top-ranked Washington University School of Medicine, and is located in St. Louis. It is consistently rated one of the top hospitals in the United States by \"U.S. News & World Report\". In 2012-13, it was ranked sixth-best medical center overall.. In the 2018-2019 \"U.S. News and World Report\" Best Hospitals Ranking, Barnes-Jewish was ranked number 11 in the nation.\n\nBarnes-Jewish Hospital is a member of BJC HealthCare and is located on the campus of the Washington University Medical Center. Barnes-Jewish is the largest private employer in Greater St. Louis, employing 9,703 people, including 1,763 attending physicians, in 2011. It is responsible for the education of 801 interns, residents, and fellows. Barnes-Jewish has 1,167 beds and, in 2011, had 54,282 inpatient admissions and 85,994 emergency department visits. The same year, 20,743 outpatient surgeries and 18,437 inpatient surgeries were performed at the hospital.\n\nBarnes-Jewish was formed by the merger of two hospitals, Barnes Hospital and The Jewish Hospital of St. Louis. Each hospital built in the early 1900's in proximity to each other on the eastern edge of Forest Park. Although the hospitals were initially linked by an affiliation agreement in 1993, the two were legally merged in 1996.\n\nBarnes Hospital was founded at the bequest of wholesale grocer and banker, Robert Barnes, who died in 1892. In coordination between Barnes executors and St. Louis philanthropist Robert Brookings, the hospital was intended as an affiliate for the Washington University school of medicine. Barnes hospital opened on December 7, 1914 at its current location on Kingshighway Boulevard. The hospital was designed by architect, Theodore Link, and initially had a 373 bed capacity. It was at this time that the St. Louis Children's Hospital, and in 1915 the reorganized school of medicine, were relocated adjacent to Barnes Hospital.\n\nJewish Hospital was founded in 1902 by leaders of the St. Louis Jewish community in order to care for \"the sick and disabled of, 'any creed or nationality.'\" The hospital was originally located on 5414 Delmar Boulevard. Due to the increasing number of patients and need for expansion, the hospital was relocated two blocks north of the Barnes hospital/Washington University Medical school complex in 1926.\n\nBarnes-Jewish Hospital has earned a place on U.S. News & World Report’s Honor Roll of America’s best hospitals for the past 18 years. Barnes-Jewish is home to 15 specialties ranked among the best nationally including cancer; digestive disorders; ear, nose and throat; eyes; gynecology; heart and lung surgery; hormonal disorders; kidney disease; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; psychiatry; respiratory disorders; rheumatology; geriatrics; and urology. The old Barnes Hospital was one of the first to treat diabetic patients with insulin and the first to install an electronic data processing system in a hospital. In 2016 Barnes-Jewish Hospital received a two star rating from medicare hospital quality rankings. \n\nBecker's Hospital Review recognized Barnes-Jewish Hospital as one of:\n\n"}
{"id": "889450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889450", "title": "Blackwater fever", "text": "Blackwater fever\n\nBlackwater fever is a complication of malaria infection in which red blood cells burst in the bloodstream (hemolysis), releasing hemoglobin directly into the blood vessels and into the urine, frequently leading to kidney failure. The disease was first linked to malaria by the Sierra Leonean physician Dr John Farrell Easmon in his 1884 pamphlet entitled \"The Nature and Treatment of Blackwater Fever.\" Easmon coined the name \"blackwater fever\" and was the first to successfully treat such cases following the publication of his pamphlet.\n\nWithin a few days of onset there are chills, with rigor, high fever, jaundice, vomiting, rapidly progressive anemia, and dark red or black urine.\n\nThe cause of hemolytic crises in this disease is unknown (mainly due to intravascular haemolysis). There is rapid and massive destruction of red blood cells resulting in hemoglobinemia (hemoglobin in the blood, but outside the red blood cells), hemoglobinuria (hemoglobin in urine), intense jaundice, anuria (passing less than 50 milliliters of urine in a day), and finally death in the majority of cases.\n\nThe most probable explanation for blackwater fever is an autoimmune reaction apparently caused by the interaction of the malaria parasite and the use of quinine. Blackwater fever is caused by heavy parasitization of red blood cells with \"Plasmodium falciparum\". There has been at least one case, however, attributed to \"Plasmodium vivax\".\n\nBlackwater fever is a serious complication of malaria, but cerebral malaria has a higher mortality rate. Blackwater fever is much less common today than it was before 1950. It may be that quinine plays a role in triggering the condition, and this drug is no longer commonly used for malaria prophylaxis. Quinine remains important for treatment of malaria.\n\nThe treatment is antimalarial chemotherapy, intravenous fluid and sometimes supportive care such as intensive care and dialysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46924", "title": "Caesarean section", "text": "Caesarean section\n\nCaesarean section, also known as C-section, or caesarean delivery, is the use of surgery to deliver babies. A caesarean section is often necessary when a vaginal delivery would put the baby or mother at risk. This may include obstructed labor, twin pregnancy, high blood pressure in the mother, breech birth, or problems with the placenta or umbilical cord. A caesarean delivery may be performed based upon the shape of the mother's pelvis or history of a previous C-section. A trial of vaginal birth after C-section may be possible. The World Health Organization recommends that caesarean section be performed only when medically necessary. Some C-sections are performed without a medical reason, upon request by someone, usually the mother.\nA C-section typically takes 45 minutes to an hour. It may be done with a spinal block, where the woman is awake or under general anesthesia. A urinary catheter is used to drain the bladder, and the skin of the abdomen is then cleaned with an antiseptic. An incision of about 15 cm (6 inches) is then typically made through the mother's lower abdomen. The uterus is then opened with a second incision and the baby delivered. The incisions are then stitched closed. A woman can typically begin breastfeeding as soon as she is awake and out of the operating room. Often, several days are required in the hospital to recover sufficiently to return home.\nC-sections result in a small overall increase in poor outcomes in low-risk pregnancies. They also typically take longer to heal from, about six weeks, than vaginal birth. The increased risks include breathing problems in the baby and amniotic fluid embolism and postpartum bleeding in the mother. Established guidelines recommend that caesarean sections not be used before 39 weeks of pregnancy without a medical reason. The method of delivery does not appear to have an effect on subsequent sexual function.\nIn 2012, about 23 million C-sections were done globally. The international healthcare community has previously considered the rate of 10% and 15% to be ideal for caesarean sections. Some evidence finds a higher rate of 19% may result in better outcomes. More than 45 countries globally have C-section rates less than 7.5%, while more than 50 have rates greater than 27%. Efforts are being made to both improve access to and reduce the use of C-section. In the United States as of 2017, about 32% of deliveries are by C-section. The surgery has been performed at least as far back as 715 BC following the death of the mother, with the baby occasionally surviving. Descriptions of mothers surviving date back to 1500. With the introduction of antiseptics and anesthetics in the 19th century, survival of both the mother and baby became common.\n\nCaesarean section is recommended when vaginal delivery might pose a risk to the mother or baby. C-sections are also carried out for personal and social reasons. Systematic reviews have found no strong evidence about the impact of caesareans for nonmedical reasons. Recommendations encourage counseling to identify the reasons for the request, addressing anxieties and information, and encouraging vaginal birth. Elective caesareans at 38 weeks showed increased health complications in the newborn. For this reason it is recommended that planned caesarean sections (also known as elective caesarean sections) should not be scheduled before 39 weeks gestation unless there is a medical reason.\n\nComplications of labor and factors increasing the risk associated with vaginal delivery include:\n\nOther complications of pregnancy, pre-existing conditions, and concomitant disease, include:\n\nOther\n\nThe prevalence of caesarean section is generally agreed to be higher than needed in many countries, and physicians are encouraged to actively lower the rate, as a caesarean rate higher than 10-15% is not associated with reductions in maternal or infant mortality rates. Some evidence supports a higher rate of 19% may result in better outcomes.\n\nSome of these efforts are: emphasizing a long of labor is not abnormal and not a justification for C-section; a new definition of the start of active labor from a cervical dilatation of 4 cm to a dilatation of 6 cm; and allowing women who have previously given birth to push for at least 2 hours, with 3 hours of pushing for women who have not previously given birth, before labor arrest is considered. Physical exercise during pregnancy decreases the risk.\n\nAdverse outcomes in low-risk pregnancies occur in 8.6% of vaginal deliveries and 9.2% of caesarean section deliveries.\n\nIn those who are low risk, the risk of death for caesarean sections is 13 per 100,000 vs. for vaginal birth 3.5 per 100,000 in the developed world—a numerically very small risk of death in either situation in resource-rich settings. The United Kingdom National Health Service gives the risk of death for the mother as three times that of a vaginal birth.\n\nIn Canada, the difference in serious morbidity or mortality for the mother (e.g. cardiac arrest, wound hematoma, or hysterectomy) was 1.8 additional cases per 100. The difference in in-hospital maternal death was not significant.\nA caesarean section is associated with risks of postoperative adhesions, incisional hernias (which may require surgical correction), and wound infections. If a caesarean is performed in an emergency, the risk of the surgery may be increased due to a number of factors. The patient's stomach may not be empty, increasing the risk of anaesthesia. Other risks include severe blood loss (which may require a blood transfusion) and postdural-puncture spinal headaches.\n\nWound infections occur after caesarean sections at a rate of 3-15%.\n\nWomen who had caesarean sections are more likely to have problems with later pregnancies, and women who want larger families should not seek an elective caesarean unless medical indications to do so exist. The risk of placenta accreta, a potentially life-threatening condition which is more likely to develop where a woman has had a previous caesarean section, is 0.13% after two caesarean sections, but increases to 2.13% after four and then to 6.74% after six or more. Along with this is a similar rise in the risk of emergency hysterectomies at delivery.\n\nMothers can experience an increased incidence of postnatal depression, and can experience significant psychological trauma and ongoing birth-related post-traumatic stress disorder after obstetric intervention during the birthing process. Factors like pain in the first stage of labor, feelings of powerlessness, intrusive emergency obstetric intervention are important in the subsequent development of psychological issues related to labor and delivery.\n\nWomen who have had a caesarean for any reason are somewhat less likely to become pregnant again as compared to women who have previously delivered only vaginally, but the effect is small.\n\nWomen who had just one previous caesarean section are more likely to have problems with their second birth. Delivery after previous caesarean section is by either of two main options:\n\nBoth have higher risks than a vaginal birth with no previous caesarean section. There are many issues which must be taken into account when planning the mode of delivery for every pregnancy, not just those complicated by a previous caesarean section and there is a list of some of these issues in the list of indications for section in the first part of this article. A vaginal birth after caesarean section (VBAC) confers a higher risk of uterine rupture (5 per 1,000), blood transfusion or endometritis (10 per 1,000), and perinatal death of the child (0.25 per 1,000). Furthermore, 20% to 40% of planned VBAC attempts end in caesarean section being needed, with greater risks of complications in an emergency repeat caesarean section than in an elective repeat caesarean section. On the other hand, VBAC confers less maternal morbidity and a decreased risk of complications in future pregnancies than elective repeat caesarean section.\n\nThere are several steps that can be taken during abdominal or pelvic surgery to minimize postoperative complications, such as the formation of adhesions. Such techniques and principles may include:\n\nDespite these proactive measures, adhesion formation is a recognized complication of any abdominal or pelvic surgery. To prevent adhesions from forming after caesarean section, adhesion barrier can be placed during surgery to minimize the risk of adhesions between the uterus and ovaries, the small bowel, and almost any tissue in the abdomen or pelvis. This is not current UK practice, as there is no compelling evidence to support the benefit of this intervention.\n\nAdhesions can cause long-term problems, such as:\n\nThe risk of adhesion formation is one reason why vaginal delivery is usually considered safer than elective caesarean section where there is no medical indication for section for either maternal or fetal reasons.\n\nNon-medically indicated (elective) childbirth before 39 weeks gestation \"carry significant risks for the baby with no known benefit to the mother.\" Complications from elective caesarean before 39 weeks include: newborn mortality at 37 weeks may be up to 3 times the number at 40 weeks, and was elevated compared to 38 weeks gestation. These “early term” births were associated with more death during infancy, compared to those occurring at 39 to 41 weeks (\"full term\"). Researchers in one study and another review found many benefits to going full term, but “no adverse effects” in the health of the mothers or babies.\n\nThe American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and medical policy makers review research studies and find more incidence of suspected or proven sepsis, RDS, hypoglycemia, need for respiratory support, need for NICU admission, and need for hospitalization > 4–5 days. In the case of caesarean sections, rates of respiratory death were 14 times higher in pre-labor at 37 compared with 40 weeks gestation, and 8.2 times higher for pre-labor caesarean at 38 weeks. In this review, no studies found decreased neonatal morbidity due to non-medically indicated (elective) delivery before 39 weeks.\n\nFor otherwise healthy twin pregnancies where both twins are head down a trial of vaginal delivery is recommended at between 37 and 38 weeks. Vaginal delivery, in this case, does not worsen the outcome for either infant as compared with caesarean section. There is some controversy on the best method of delivery where the first twin is head first and the second is not, but most obstetricians will recommend normal delivery unless there are other reasons to avoid vaginal birth. When the first twin is not head down, a caesarean section is often recommended. Regardless of whether the twins are delivered by section or vaginally, the medical literature recommends delivery of dichorionic twins at 38 weeks, and monochorionic twins (identical twins sharing a placenta) by 37 weeks due to the increased risk of stillbirth in monochorionic twins who remain in utero after 37 weeks. The consensus is that late preterm delivery of monochorionic twins is justified because the risk of stillbirth for post-37 week delivery is significantly higher than the risks posed by delivering monochorionic twins near term (i.e., 36–37 weeks).\nThe consensus concerning monoamniotic twins (identical twins sharing an amniotic sac), the highest risk type of twins, is that they should be delivered by caesarean section at or shortly after 32 weeks, since the risks of intrauterine death of one or both twins is higher after this gestation than the risk of complications of prematurity.\n\nIn a research study widely publicized, singleton children born earlier than 39 weeks may have developmental problems, including slower learning in reading and math.\n\nOther risks include:\n\nBirth by caesarean section also seems to be associated with worse health outcomes later in life, including overweight or obesity and problems in the immune system.\n\nCaesarean sections have been classified in various ways by different perspectives. One way to discuss all classification systems is to group them by their focus either on the urgency of the procedure, characteristics of the mother, or as a group based on other, less commonly discussed factors.\n\nIt is most common to classify caesarean sections by the urgency of performing them.\n\nConventionally, caesarean sections are classified as being either an elective surgery or an emergency operation. Classification is used to help communication between the obstetric, midwifery and anaesthetic team for discussion of the most appropriate method of anaesthesia. The decision whether to perform general anesthesia or regional anesthesia (spinal or epidural anaesthetic) is important and is based on many indications, including how urgent the delivery needs to be as well as the medical and obstetric history of the woman. Regional anaesthetic is almost always safer for the woman and the baby but sometimes general anaesthetic is safer for one or both, and the classification of urgency of the delivery is an important issue affecting this decision.\n\nA planned caesarean (or elective/scheduled caesarean), arranged ahead of time, is most commonly arranged for medical indications which have developed before or during the pregnancy, and ideally after 39 weeks of gestation. In the UK, this is classified as a 'grade 4' section (delivery timed to suit the mother or hospital staff) or as a 'grade 3' section (no maternal or fetal compromise but early delivery needed).\nEmergency caesarean sections are performed in pregnancies in which a vaginal delivery was planned initially, but an indication for caesarean delivery has since developed. In the UK they are further classified as grade 2 (delivery required within 90 minutes of the decision but no immediate threat to the life of the woman or the fetus) or grade 1 (delivery required within 30 minutes of the decision: immediate threat to the life of the mother or the baby or both.)\n\nElective caesarean sections may be performed on the basis of an obstetrical or medical indication, or because of a medically non-indicated maternal request. Among women in the United Kingdom, Sweden and Australia, about 7% preferred caesarean section as a method of delivery. In cases without medical indications the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the UK Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists recommend a planned vaginal delivery. The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recommends that if after a woman has been provided information on the risk of a planned caesarean section and she still insists on the procedure it should be provided. If provided this should be done at 39 weeks of gestation or later.\n\nCaesarean delivery on maternal request (CDMR) is a medically unnecessary caesarean section, where the conduct of a childbirth via a caesarean section is requested by the pregnant patient even though there is not a medical indication to have the surgery.\n\nMothers who have previously had a caesarean section are more likely to have a caesarean section for future pregnancies than mothers who have never had a caesarean section. There is discussion about the circumstances under which women should have a vaginal birth after a previous caesarean.\n\nVaginal birth after caesarean (VBAC) is the practice of birthing a baby vaginally after a previous baby has been delivered by caesarean section (surgically). According to The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), successful VBAC is associated with decreased maternal morbidity and a decreased risk of complications in future pregnancies. According to the American Pregnancy Association, 90% of women who have undergone caesarean deliveries are candidates for VBAC. Approximately 60-80% of women opting for VBAC will successfully give birth vaginally, which is comparable to the overall vaginal delivery rate in the United States in 2010.\n\nFor otherwise healthy twin pregnancies where both twins are head down a trial of vaginal delivery is recommended at between 37 and 38 weeks. Vaginal delivery in this case does not worsen the outcome for either infant as compared with caesarean section. There is controversy on the best method of delivery where the first twin is head first and the second is not. When the first twin is not head down at the point of labor starting, a caesarean section should be recommended. Although the second twin typically has a higher frequency of problems, it is not known if a planned caesarean section affects this. It is estimated that 75% of twin pregnancies in the United States were delivered by caesarean section in 2008.\n\nA breech birth is the birth of a baby from a breech presentation, in which the baby exits the pelvis with the buttocks or feet first as opposed to the normal head-first presentation. In breech presentation, fetal heart sounds are heard just above the umbilicus.\n\nThe bottom-down position presents some hazards to the baby during the process of birth, and the mode of delivery (vaginal versus caesarean) is controversial in the fields of obstetrics and midwifery.\n\nThough vaginal birth is possible for the breech baby, certain fetal and maternal factors influence the safety of vaginal breech birth. The majority of breech babies born in the United States and the UK are delivered by caesarean section as studies have shown increased risks of morbidity and mortality for vaginal breech delivery, and most obstetricians counsel against planned vaginal breech birth for this reason. As a result of reduced numbers of actual vaginal breech deliveries, obstetricians and midwives are at risk of de-skilling in this important skill. All those involved in delivery of obstetric and midwifery care in the UK undergo mandatory training in conducting breech deliveries in the simulation environment (using dummy pelvises and mannequins to allow practice of this important skill) and this training is carried out regularly to keep skills up to date.\n\nA resuscitative hysterotomy, also known as a peri-mortem caesarean delivery, is an emergency caesarean delivery carried out where maternal cardiac arrest has occurred, to assist in resuscitation of the mother by removing the aortocaval compression generated by the gravid uterus. Unlike other forms of caesarean section, the welfare of the fetus is a secondary priority only, and the procedure may be performed even prior to the limit of fetal viability if it is judged to be of benefit to the mother.\n\nThere are several types of caesarean section (CS). An important distinction lies in the type of incision (longitudinal or transverse) made on the uterus, apart from the incision on the skin: the vast majority of skin incisions are a transverse suprapubic approach known as a Pfannenstiel incision but there is no way of knowing from the skin scar which way the uterine incision was conducted.\n\nThe EXIT procedure is a specialized surgical delivery procedure used to deliver babies who have airway compression.\n\nThe Misgav Ladach method is a modified caesarean section which has been used nearly all over the world since the 1990s. It was described by Michael Stark, the president of the New European Surgical Academy, at the time he was the director of Misgav Ladach, a general hospital in Jerusalem. The method was presented during a FIGO conference in Montréal in 1994 and then distributed by the University of Uppsala, Sweden, in more than 100 countries. This method is based on minimalistic principles. He examined all steps in caesarean sections in use, analyzed them for their necessity and, if found necessary, for their optimal way of performance. For the abdominal incision he used the modified Joel Cohen incision and compared the longitudinal abdominal structures to strings on musical instruments. As blood vessels and muscles have lateral sway, it is possible to stretch rather than cut them. The peritoneum is opened by repeat stretching, no abdominal swabs are used, the uterus is closed in one layer with a big needle to reduce the amount of foreign body as much as possible, the peritoneal layers remain unsutured and the abdomen is closed with two layers only. Women undergoing this operation recover quickly and can look after the newborns soon after surgery. There are many publications showing the advantages over traditional caesarean section methods. There is also an increased risk of abruptio placentae and uterine rupture in subsequent pregnancies for women who underwent this method in prior deliveries.\n\nAntibiotic prophylaxis is used before an incision. The uterus is incised, and this incision is extended with blunt pressure along a cephalad-caudad axis. The infant is delivered, and the placenta is then removed. The surgeon then makes a decision about uterine exteriorization. Single-layer uterine closure is used when the mother does not want a future pregnancy. When subcutaneous tissue is 2 cm thick or more, surgical suture is used. Discouraged practices include manual cervical dilation, any subcutaneous drain, or supplemental oxygen therapy with intent to prevent infection.\n\nCaesarean section can be performed with single or double layer suturing of the uterine incision. Single layer closure compared with double layer closure has been observed to result in reduced blood loss during the surgery. It is uncertain whether this is the direct effect of the suturing technique or if other factors such as the type and site of abdominal incision contribute to reduced blood loss. Standard procedure includes the closure of the peritoneum. Research questions whether this is needed, with some studies indicating peritoneal closure is associated with longer operative time and hospital stay. The Misgave Ladach method is a surgery technical that may have fewer secondary complications and faster healing, due to the insertion into the muscle.\n\nIn many hospitals, the mother's partner is encouraged to attend the surgery to support the mother and share the experience. The anaesthetist will usually lower the drape temporarily as the child is delivered so the parents can see their newborn.\n\nBoth general and regional anaesthesia (spinal, epidural or combined spinal and epidural anaesthesia) are acceptable for use during caesarean section. Evidence does not show a difference between regional anaesthesia and general anaesthesia with respect to major outcomes in the mother or baby. Regional anaesthesia may be preferred as it allows the mother to be awake and interact immediately with her baby. Compared to general anaesthesia, regional anaesthesia is better at preventing persistent postoperative pain 3 to 8 months after caesarean section. Other advantages of regional anesthesia may include the absence of typical risks of general anesthesia: pulmonary aspiration (which has a relatively high incidence in patients undergoing anesthesia in late pregnancy) of gastric contents and esophageal intubation. One trial found no difference in satisfaction when general anaesthesia was compared with either spinal anaesthesia.\n\nRegional anaesthesia is used in 95% of deliveries, with spinal and combined spinal and epidural anaesthesia being the most commonly used regional techniques in scheduled caesarean section. Regional anaesthesia during caesarean section is different from the analgesia (pain relief) used in labor and vaginal delivery. The pain that is experienced because of surgery is greater than that of labor and therefore requires a more intense nerve block.\n\nGeneral anesthesia may be necessary because of specific risks to mother or child. Patients with heavy, uncontrolled bleeding may not tolerate the hemodynamic effects of regional anesthesia. General anesthesia is also preferred in very urgent cases, such as severe fetal distress, when there is no time to perform a regional anesthesia.\n\nPostpartum infection is one of the main causes of maternal death and may account for 10% of maternal deaths globally. A caesarean section greatly increases the risk of infection and associated morbidity, estimated to be between 5 and 20 times as high, and routine use of antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent infections was found by a meta-analysis to substantially reduce the incidence of febrile morbidity. Infection can occur in around 8% of women who have caesareans, largely endometritis, urinary tract infections and wound infections. The use of preventative antibiotics in women undergoing caesarean section decreased wound infection, endometritis, and serious infectious complications by about 65%. Side effects and effect on the baby is unclear.\n\nWomen who have caesareans can recognize the signs of fever that indicate the possibility of wound infection. Taking antibiotics before skin incision rather than after cord clamping reduces the risk for the mother, without increasing adverse effects for the baby. Whether a particular type of skin cleaner improves outcomes is unclear.\n\nSome doctors believe that during a caesarean section, mechanical cervical dilation with a finger or forceps will prevent the obstruction of blood and lochia drainage, and thereby benefit the mother by reducing the risk of death. The evidence neither supported nor refuted this practice for reducing postoperative morbidity, pending further large studies.\n\nIt is common for women who undergo caesarean section to have reduced or absent bowel movements for hours to days. During this time, women may experience abdominal cramps, nausea and vomiting. This usually resolves without treatment. Abdominal, wound and back pain can continue for months after a caesarean section. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can be helpful. Women who have had a caesarean are more likely to experience pain that interferes with their usual activities than women who have vaginal births, although by six months there is generally no longer a difference. Pain during sexual intercourse is less likely than after vaginal birth; by six months there is no difference.\n\nThere may be a somewhat higher incidence of postnatal depression in the first weeks after childbirth for women who have caesarean sections, but this difference does not persist. Some women who have had caesarean sections, especially emergency caesareans, experience post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nIn Italy, the incidence of caesarean sections is particularly high, although it varies from region to region. In Campania, 60% of 2008 births reportedly occurred via caesarean sections. In the Rome region, the mean incidence is around 44%, but can reach as high as 85% in some private clinics.\n\nWith nearly 1.3 million stays, caesarean section was one of the most common procedures performed in U.S. hospitals in 2011. It was the second-most common procedure performed for people ages 18 to 44 years old. Caesarean rates in the U.S. have risen considerably since 1996. The procedure increased 60% from 1996 to 2009. In 2010, the caesarean delivery rate was 32.8% of all births (a slight decrease from 2009's high of 32.9% of all births). A study found that in 2011, women covered by private insurance were 11% more likely to have a caesarean section delivery than those covered by Medicaid.\n\nChina has been cited as having the highest rates of C-sections in the world at 46% as of 2008.\n\nStudies have shown that continuity of care with a known carer may significantly decrease the rate of caesarean delivery but there is also research that appears to show that there is no significant difference in Caesarean rates when comparing midwife continuity care to conventional fragmented care.\n\nMore emergency caesareans—about 66%—are performed during the day rather than the night.\n\nThe rate has risen to 46% in China and to levels of 25% and above in many Asian, European and Latin American countries. The rate has increased in the United States, to 33% of all births in 2012, up from 21% in 1996. Across Europe, there are differences between countries: in Italy the caesarean section rate is 40%, while in the Nordic countries it is 14%. In Brazil and Iran the caesarean section rate is greater than 40%.\n\nIn the United States, C-section rates have increased from just over 20% in 1996 to 33% in 2011. This increase has not resulted in improved outcomes resulting in the position that C-sections may be done too frequently.\n\nThe World Health Organization officially withdrew its previous recommendation of a 15% C-section rate in June 2010. Their official statement read, \"There is no empirical evidence for an optimum percentage. What matters most is that all women who need caesarean sections receive them.\"\n\nSpeculation explaining a relationship between birth weight and maternal pelvis size has been proposed. The explanation, based on Darwinian-inspired logic, states that since the advent of successful caesarean birth more mothers with small pelvises and babies with large birth weights survive. This hypothesis would predict an increased average birth weight, which has been observed. It is unclear what component contributes more to this effect; evolution or environment.\n\nBrazil has one of the highest caesarean section rates in the world, with rates in the public sector of 35–45%, and 80–90% in the private sector.\n\nGlobal rates of caesarean section rates are increasing. It doubled from 2003 to 2018 to reach 21%, and is increasing annually by 4%. In southern Africa it is less than 5%; the rate is almost 60% in some parts of Latin America. In the United Kingdom, in 2008, the rate was 24%. In Ireland the rate was 26.1% in 2009. The Canadian rate was 26% in 2005–2006. Australia has a high caesarean section rate, at 31% in 2007. In the United States the rate of C-section is around 33%, varying from 23% to 40% depending on the state. One out three women who gave birth in the US delivered by caesarean in 2011. In 2012, close to 23 million C-sections were carried out globally. At one time a rate of 10% to 15% was thought to be ideal; a rate of 19% may result in better outcomes. More than 50 nations have rates greater than 27%. Another 45 countries have rates less than 7.5% There are efforts to both improve access to and reduce the use of C-section. In the United States about 33% of deliveries are by C-section. The rates in the UK and Australia are 26.5% and 32.3% respectively. In China, the most recent CS rate reported was 41%. Globally, 1% of all caesarean deliveries are carried out without medical need. Overall, the caesarean section rate was 25.7% for 2004-2008.\n\nWound infections occur after caesarean sections at a rate of 3-15%. Some women are at greater risk for developing a surgical site infection after delivery. The presence of chorioamnionitis and obesity predisposes the woman to develop a surgical site infection.\n\nThe mother of Bindusara (born c. 320 BCE, ruled 298 – c. 272 BCE), the second Mauryan \"Samrat\" (emperor) of India, accidentally consumed poison and died when she was close to delivering him. Chanakya, the Chandragupta's teacher and adviser, made up his mind that the baby should survive. He cut open the belly of the queen and took out the baby, thus saving the baby's life.\n\nAccording to the ancient Chinese \"Records of the Grand Historian\", Luzhong, a sixth-generation descendant of the mythological Yellow Emperor, had six sons, all born by \"cutting open the body\". The sixth son Jilian founded the House of Mi that ruled the State of Chu (c. 1030–223 BCE).\n\nIn the Irish mythological text the Ulster Cycle, the character Furbaide Ferbend is said to have been born by posthumous caesarean section, after his mother was murdered by his evil aunt Medb.\n\nThe Babylonian Talmud, an ancient Jewish religious text, mentions a procedure similar to the caesarean section. The procedure is termed \"yotzei dofen\". It also discusses at length the permissibility of performing a c-section on a dying or dead mother.\n\nPliny the Elder theorized that Julius Caesar's name came from an ancestor who was born by caesarean section, but the truth of this is debated (see the discussion of the etymology of \"Caesar\"). The Ancient Roman caesarean section was first performed to remove a baby from the womb of a mother who died during childbirth. Julius Caesar's mother, Aurelia, lived through childbirth and successfully gave birth to her son, ruling out the possibility the Roman ruler and general was born by caesarean section. His first wife died in childbirth, giving birth to a stillborn son who might have lived had a caesarean taken place.\n\nThe Catalan saint Raymond Nonnatus (1204–1240), received his surname—from the Latin \"non-natus\" (\"not born\")—because he was born by caesarean section. His mother died while giving birth to him.\n\nAn early account of caesarean section in Iran is mentioned in the book of Shahnameh, written around 1000 CE, and relates to the birth of Rostam, the national legendary hero of Iran. According to the Shahnameh, the Simurgh instructed Zal upon how to perform a caesarean section, thus saving Rudaba and the child Rostam.\n\nCaesarean section usually resulted in the death of the mother. In an account from the 1580s, in Siegershausen, Switzerland, Jakob Nufer a pig gelder, is supposed to have performed the operation on his wife after a prolonged labor, with her surviving. There is also some basis for supposing that Jewish women regularly survived the operation in Roman times. For most of the time since the 16th century, the procedure had a high mortality rate. It was long considered an extreme measure, performed only when the mother was already dead or considered to be beyond help. In Great Britain and Ireland, the mortality rate in 1865 was 85%. Key steps in reducing mortality were:\n\nEuropean travelers in the Great Lakes region of Africa during the 19th century observed caesarean sections being performed on a regular basis. The expectant mother was normally anesthetized with alcohol, and herbal mixtures were used to encourage healing. From the well-developed nature of the procedures employed, European observers concluded they had been employed for some time. James Barry carried out the first successful caesarean by a European doctor in Africa in Cape Town, while posted there between 1817 and 1828.\n\nThe first successful caesarean section to be performed in the United States took place in Mason County, Virginia (now Mason County, West Virginia), in 1794. The procedure was performed by Dr. Jesse Bennett on his wife Elizabeth.\n\nThe patron saint of caesarean section is Caesarius of Africa, a young deacon martyred at Terracina, who has replaced and Christianized the pagan figure of Caesar. The martyr (Saint Cesareo in Italian) is invoked for the good success of this surgical procedure.\n\nThe Roman \"Lex Regia\" (royal law), later the \"Lex Caesarea\" (imperial law), of Numa Pompilius (715–673 BC), required the child of a mother dead in childbirth to be cut from her womb.\nThere was a cultural taboo that mothers not be buried pregnant, that may have reflected a way of saving some fetuses. Roman practice requiring a living mother to be in her tenth month of pregnancy before resorting to the procedure, reflecting the knowledge that she could not survive the delivery. Speculation that the Roman dictator Julius Caesar was born by the method now known as C-section is apparently false. Although caesarean sections were performed in Roman times, no classical source records a mother surviving such a delivery. As late as the 12th century, scholar and physician Maimonides expresses doubt over the possibility of a woman's surviving this procedure and again falling pregnant. The term has also been explained as deriving from the verb \"caedere\", \"to cut\", with children delivered this way referred to as \"caesones\". Pliny the Elder refers to a certain Julius Caesar (an ancestor of the famous Roman statesman) as \"ab utero caeso\", \"cut from the womb\" giving this as an explanation for the cognomen \"Caesar\" which was then carried by his descendants. Nonetheless, even if the etymological hypothesis linking the caesarean section to Julius Caesar is a false etymology, it has been widely believed. For example, the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines caesarean birth as \"the delivery of a child by cutting through the walls of the abdomen when delivery cannot take place in the natural way, as was done in the case of Julius Caesar\". \"Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary\" (11th edition) leaves room for etymological uncertainty with the phrase, \"from the legendary association of such a delivery with the Roman cognomen \"Caesar\"\".\n\nSome link with Julius Caesar or with Roman emperors exists in other languages as well. For example, the modern German, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Swedish, Turkish and Hungarian terms are respectively \"Kaiserschnitt\", \"keisersnitt\", \"kejsersnit\", \"keizersnede\", \"kejsarsnitt\", \"sezaryen\" and \"császármetszés\" (literally: \"emperor's cut\"). The German term has also been imported into Japanese (帝王切開 \"teiōsekkai\") and Korean (제왕 절개 \"jewang jeolgae\"), both literally meaning \"emperor incision\". Similarly, in western Slavic (Polish) \"cięcie cesarskie\", (Czech) \"císařský řez\" and (Slovak) \"cisársky rez\" means \"emperor's cut\", whereas the south Slavic term is Serbian \"царски рез\" and Slovenian \"cárski réz\", literally \"tzar's cut\". The Russian term \"kesarevo secheniye\" (Кесарево сечение \"késarevo sečénije\") literally means \"Caesar's section\". The Arabic term (ولادة قيصرية \"wilaada qaySaríyya\") also means \"caesarean birth.\" The Hebrew term ניתוח קיסרי (\"nitúakh Keisári\") translates literally as caesarean surgery. In Romania and Portugal, it is usually called \"cesariana\", meaning from (or related to) Caesar.\n\nFinally, the Roman praenomen (given name) Caeso was said to be given to children who were born via C-section. While this was probably just folk etymology made popular by Pliny the Elder, it was well known by the time the term came into common use.\n\nThe term \"caesarean\" is spelled in various accepted ways, as discussed at Wiktionary. The Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) of the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM) uses \"cesarean section\", while some other American medical works, e.g. \"Saunders Comprehensive Veterinary Dictionary\", use \"caesarean\", as do most British works. The online versions of the US-published \"Merriam-Webster Dictionary\" and \"American Heritage Dictionary\" list \"cesarean\" first and other spellings as \"variants\", an etymologically anhistorical position.\n\nIn Judaism, there is a dispute among the \"poskim\" (Rabbinic authorities) as to whether the first-born son from a caesarean section has the laws of a \"bechor\". Traditionally, a male child delivered by caesarean is not eligible for the \"Pidyon HaBen\" dedication ritual.\n\nIn rare cases, caesarean sections can be used to remove a dead fetus. A late-term abortion using caesarean section procedures is termed a hysterotomy abortion and is very rarely performed.\n\nThe mother may perform a caesarean section on herself; there have been successful cases, such as Inés Ramírez Pérez of Mexico who, on 5 March 2000, performed a successful caesarean section on herself. She survived, as did her son, Orlando Ruiz Ramírez.\n"}
{"id": "27080621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27080621", "title": "Canadian Society of Pharmacology and Therapeutics", "text": "Canadian Society of Pharmacology and Therapeutics\n\nThe Canadian Society of Pharmacology and Therapeutics (CSPT; ) is an academic association whose mission is the promotion of research and education in pharmacology and therapeutics in Canada. It comprises graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, established investigators and clinical scientists working in academia, clinical practice, government, and industry. Despite being based in Canada and having a majority of Canadian members, this is not a condition of membership, and the Society has members from all over the world. The CSPT is the Canadian member of the International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52410293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52410293", "title": "Cytotoxic hazard symbol", "text": "Cytotoxic hazard symbol\n\nThe Cytotoxic hazard symbol is a hazard symbol consisting of a triangle with the letter \"C\" inside it. It is used to label biomedical waste bags and containers.\n\nCytotoxic waste, the by-product of cytotoxic drug therapy administered to patients (such as chemotherapy), typically includes all drug administrative equipment (e.g. needles, syringes, dripsets etc.) as well as all gowns and body fluids/waste from patients undergoing such treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "745020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=745020", "title": "Death erection", "text": "Death erection\n\nA death erection, angel lust, or terminal erection is a post-mortem erection, technically a priapism, observed in the corpses of men who have been executed, particularly by hanging.\n\nThe phenomenon has been attributed to pressure on the cerebellum created by the noose. Spinal cord injuries are known to be associated with priapism. Injuries to the cerebellum or spinal cord are often associated with priapism in living patients.\n\nDeath by hanging, whether an execution or a suicide, has been observed to affect the genitals of both men and women. In women, the labia and clitoris may become engorged and there may be a discharge of blood from the vagina. In men, \"a more or less complete state of erection of the penis, with discharge of urine, mucus or prostatic fluid is a frequent occurrence ... present in one case in three.\" Other causes of death may also result in these effects, including fatal gunshots to the head, damage to major blood vessels, and violent death by poisoning. A postmortem priapism is an indicator that death was likely swift and violent. In a case reported from Thailand, an excess of sildenafil (Viagra) was thought to be cause of a death erection in a 64-year-old man.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34485760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34485760", "title": "Dermatologic and Ophthalmic Drugs Advisory Committee", "text": "Dermatologic and Ophthalmic Drugs Advisory Committee\n\nThe Dermatologic And Ophthalmic Drugs Advisory Committee (DODAC) receives requests for technical and clinical evaluation of new drugs by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The committee, consisting of members from academic and clinical dermatology, ophthalmology, biostatistics, the general public, and the pharmaceutical industry, makes non-binding recommendations to both the CDER and CBER divisions of the FDA about the advisability of approving new medications to treat dermatologic and ophthalmic conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "12166877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12166877", "title": "East Carolina University College of Allied Health Sciences", "text": "East Carolina University College of Allied Health Sciences\n\nThe College of Allied Health Sciences is a college at East Carolina University. The school comprises all allied health majors except those offered by the College of Nursing.\n"}
{"id": "39419396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39419396", "title": "Evans County Heart Study", "text": "Evans County Heart Study\n\nThe Evans County Heart Study was a long-term cardiovascular study on residents of Evans County, Georgia. The study, which was funded by the National Institute of Health, began in July, 1958, and was last updated as recent as May 2016. It resulted in more than 560 published papers that ultimately showed the importance of HDL cholesterol. The study was conducted by Dr. Curtis Gordon Hames, a family doctor from Claxton, Georgia. The study took place in Evans Country because the area had a high death count due to heart complications, such as heart disease and other cardiovascular diseases. The studies showed that there was a significant abundance of heart conditions within a variety of ethnicities. People as young as fourteen and as old as seventy-four participated in the tests, and were divided into different age groups; however only males were eligible for the study. Anyone as old as one-hundred years old could be eligible, and any younger.\n\nThe study involved 6,596 people from Evans County and 3,921 people from Bulloch County. The study population from Evans county consisted of African-American and Caucasian males, ages 40–74, along with a 15-39 year old group that were involved in other studies. Then, the people were divided up into 10 random, equal in size, random samples. Also, a 50% random sample of the 15-39 year old group was taken by including people from the first five samples solely. By comprising this type of sampling, secular trends in disease patterns, along with possible aging of laboratory reagents were randomized.\n\nThe study was done in Evans County, Georgia. Evans County is located in the southeastern portion of the United States. It is situated on the coastal plain estimating around 60 miles inland from the seaport of Savannah, GA. Around half of the population lives on farms while the other half lives in meager little villages. An example is Claxton. Claxton is a town that has a population of 2,000, about 40 percent of which is black. The white population of Evans County was large enough to provide an adequete number for the study, but the black population was considered too small and some blacks from the Bulloch county were incorporated into this study.\n\nThe study can be categorized as a cohort study due to the longevity of the research and its focus on the residents of Evans County, Georgia. It was the leader in the field of epidemiology to analyze effects and differences of coronary heart disease on race. The study aimed to determine how cardiovascular disease affected different races among a specific population. To determine the population size, a specific census was conducted in the county for the study during the first two months of 1960, recording 6,596 persons. From there, the study population included a total of 3,377 residents within Evans County. These residents included a group of randomly selected blacks and whites age 40-74 and an additional group of blacks were selected from Bulloch sub-County. A group of 15-39 year old residents were also selected into this group mainly to participate in other experiments as well. The study population was subsequently randomly divided into 10 groups.\n\nThe examination process consisted of two cardiovascular tests including \"history and physical, blood pressure determination, standard electrocardiogram and chest X-ray, and cholesterol determination.\" Ninety-two percent of the study population responded with an examination process. Therefore, data from 3,102 residents was obtained through the process.\n\nUsing a prospective cohort model, the investigators sought to examine the entire population of the county aged over 40 years and half the population aged between 15 and 39 years. They ultimately achieved a 92% response rate for a total study population of 3,102 residents. From 1960-1962, each participant was given an initial examination in which serum cholesterol, blood pressure, weight, height and the participant’s responses to a number of health behavior and medical history questions. A follow-up consisting of a similar battery of tests was completed from 1967-1969. For 90.9% of the study population, a physical similar to the preliminary one was completed. For another 7.9%, health status was ascertained by a phone survey of either subject or a family member. The total rate of follow-up was 98.8%. Factors assessed at the time of follow-up were systolic and diastolic blood pressure, serum cholesterol level, cigarette smoking, body weight, hematocrit value, ECG abnormalities and diet. Socioeconomic status was also assessed for whites, but not for blacks, as little variability was found in this factor among black subjects.\n\nA central finding of the study was that, across race and social class differences, factors associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) did so equally for blacks and whites whether the risk factors were considered singly or in combination. CHD incidence remained markedly higher for white Evans County residents. The only social grouping of white residents that had equally low incidence of CHD was white sharecroppers, which was attributed to higher rates of physical activity among sharecroppers when compared to whites of higher socioeconomic status.\n\nA strength of the study was the high response rate of the population in its entirety, one of only two of its kind to successfully examine an entire community. The publication of the initial study results did not include statistical analysis. Hames attributes his decision to avoid statistical analysis to the unique design of the study. He wrote, “…it certainly is not clear to us [the investigators] what differences such tests could make in our interpretations in the context of this study… the population over 40 does not constitute a sample of some universe. They are a universe.”\n"}
{"id": "23374915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23374915", "title": "Fedcap Rehabilitation Services", "text": "Fedcap Rehabilitation Services\n\nFedcap Rehabilitation Services, Inc., or Fedcap, is a Manhattan-based not-for-profit organization that provides vocational training and employment resources to those who face barriers to employment.\n\nFedcap’s mission is to empower people with barriers to move towards economic independence as valued members of the workforce. Each year Fedcap’s evaluation, vocational training, job placement and counseling services, employment programs, and support and advocacy programs help more than 2,000 Americans overcome obstacles, rebuild their lives, and find and keep meaningful employment. Originally established in 1935 as the Federation of Crippled and Disabled, it then became the Federation of the Handicapped in 1946, ultimately switching to its current name in 1992. It was one of the first vocational rehabilitation programs for the handicapped established in the United States. The original goal of the organization was to provide support for the physically disabled, but it eventually expanded into helping people with all kinds of disabilities and employment-related barriers.\n\nFedcap's programs and services are free of charge for the trainees and last for three to six months. Fedcap’s comprehensive approach includes thorough vocational evaluations to help determine appropriate career paths for clients followed by vocational training in a variety of fields including custodial, culinary arts, data entry/document imaging, office skills, hospitality, and mailroom/messenger services. Fedcap’s New York State licensed business and trade school offers small classes and individualized attention from highly qualified instructors.\n\nAfter graduation, all clients receive career counseling, job placement services, and ongoing on-the-job support. Fedcap graduates obtain jobs at private companies or with Fedcap in New York, New Jersey, and Washington, D.C. The majority of the jobs we are able to offer are made possible through the New York State Preferred Source Program, New Jersey ACCSES, and the federal AbilityOne Program.\n\nFedcap also operates a licensed home health care agency; Chelton Loft, a clubhouse for adults with severe and persistent mental illness; a Partial Care Mental Health Program for adults with developmental disabilities and mental illness; a Youth Program for young adults transitioning in to the workforce; and a Veterans Program assisting returning veterans with their transition to civilian life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1763544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1763544", "title": "Five Tibetan Rites", "text": "Five Tibetan Rites\n\nThe Five Tibetan Rites is a system of exercises reported to be more than 2,500 years old which were first publicized by Peter Kelder in a 1939 publication titled \"The Eye of Revelation\".\n\nThe Rites are said to be a form of Tibetan yoga similar to the yoga series that originated in India. However, the Five Rites and traditional Tibetan yoga both emphasize \"a continuous sequence of movement\" (Sanskrit: vinyasa), whereas Indian forms focus on \"static positions\". Although the Rites have circulated amongst yogis for decades, skeptics say that Tibetans have never recognized them as being authentic Tibetan practices.\n\nThe Five Tibetan Rites are also referred to as \"The Five Rites\", \"The Five Tibetans\" and \"The Five Rites of Rejuvenation\".\n\nAlthough practically nothing is known about Kelder, one source reports that he was raised as an adopted child in the mid-western United States and left home while in his teens in search of adventure. In the 1930s, Kelder claims to have met, in southern California, a retired British army colonel who shared with him stories of travel and the subsequent discovery of the Rites.\nOriginally written as a 32-page booklet, the publication is the result of Kelder's conversations with the colonel.\n\nIn his booklet, Kelder claims that while stationed in India, British army officer Colonel Bradford (a pseudonym) heard a story about a group of lamas who had apparently discovered a \"Fountain of Youth\". The \"wandering natives\", as he called them, told him of old men who inexplicably became healthy, strong, and full of \"vigor and virility\" after entering a particular lamasery. After retiring, Kelder's Colonel Bradford went on to discover the lamasery and lived with the lamas, where they taught him five exercises, which they called \"rites\". According to the booklet, the lamas describe seven spinning, \"psychic vortexes\" within the body: two of these are in the brain, one at the base of the throat, one on the right side of the body in the vicinity of the liver, one in the reproductive anatomy, and one in each knee. As we grow older, the spin rate of the \"vortexes\" diminishes, resulting in \"ill-health\". However, the spin rate of these \"vortexes\" can be restored by performing the Five Rites daily, resulting in improved health.\n\nBradford was also instructed in how to perform a sixth rite, which the lamas recommended only for those willing to \"lead a more or less continent (celibate) life\". Additionally, Bradford reveals information on the importance of what foods one should eat, proper food combinations, and the correct method of eating.\n\nAlthough the origin of the Five Rites before the publication of \"The Eye of Revelation\" is disputed between practitioners and skeptics, a comparison of illustrations of the postures shows a remarkable similarity between the Rites and authentic Tibetan \"'phrul 'khor\" exercises from a system rendered into English as Vajra Body Magical Wheel Sun and Moon Union (). It has been noted, however, that even though these comparisons are compelling, a closer examination reveals that these similarities are misleading. Chris Kilham, whose 1994 book \"The Five Tibetans\" helped respark the Rites' popularity, says, \"As the story has it, they were shared by Tibetan lamas; beyond that I know nothing of their history.\" Even though the historic lineage of the Rites before the publication of Kelder's booklet remains to be ascertained, the Rites have nevertheless been affirmed by a lama and scholar of the Sa skya tradition of Tibetan Buddhism as being \"a genuine form of yoga and were originally taken from an authentic Indo-Tibetan tantric lineage, namely a cycle of yantra-yoga associated with the Sadnadapadadharma.\" However, it has been argued that the Five Rites predate yoga as we know it today by as much as seven hundred years or more and, therefore, could not have derived from either Tibetan or Indian forms of yoga. Moreover, it has been suggested that the Rites are more likely to have originated from a system of Kum Nye which, like the Rites, date back 2,500 years. Nevertheless, Kilham states that \"[t]he issue at hand, though, is not the lineage of the Five Tibetans. The point is their immense potential value for those who will clear 10 minutes a day to practice.\"\n\nIn the original \"The Eye of Revelation\" booklet, Kelder suggests standing erect between each of the Five Rites with hands on hips and taking one or two deep breaths; he neither implies nor suggests that specific breathing patterns should be adopted while performing the movements. Nevertheless, subsequent publications pertaining to the Rites contain edits by others which recommend and detail specific instructions for breathing while performing the exercises. Some practitioners also recommend taking caution before performing the Rites due to the possibility of aggravating certain health conditions.\n\nKelder cautions that when performing the First Rite, spinning must always be performed in a clockwise direction. He also states that Bradford clearly recalled that the Maulawiyah, otherwise known as \"Whirling Dervishes\", always spun from left to right, in a clockwise direction. No mention is made of the orientation of the palms, although the original illustration of the Rite in the 1939 edition of \"The Eye of Revelation\" clearly depicts both palms as facing toward the ground. Here arises a point of contention: the Whirling Dervishes spin in the \"counter\"-clockwise direction, with the left palm facing down, towards the earth, and the right palm facing up, towards heaven. However, this discrepancy may find partial resolution in the fact that Tibetan Buddhist yoga regards clockwise rotation to be favorable, whereas counter-clockwise rotation is considered to be unfavorable.\n\n\"Stand erect with arms outstretched, horizontal with the shoulders. Now spin around until you become slightly dizzy. There is only one caution: you must turn from left to right if you are in the northern hemisphere and counterclockwise if you are in the South hemisphere.\" A tip for this is to look at the end of your right hand as a reference point .\n\n\"Lie full length on rug or bed. Place the hands flat down alongside of the hips. Fingers should be kept close together with the finger-tips of each hand turned slightly toward one another. Raise the feet until the legs are straight up. If possible, let the feet extend back a bit over the body toward the head, but do not let the knees bend. Hold this position for a moment or two and then slowly lower the feet to the floor, and for the next several moments allow all of the muscles in the entire body to relax completely. Then perform the Rite all over again.\"\n\n\"While the feet and legs are being raised it is a good idea also to raise the head, then while the feet and legs are being lowered to the floor lower the head at the same time.\"\n\n\"Kneel on a rug or mat with hands at sides, palms flat against the side of legs. Then lean forward as far as possible, bending at the waist, with head well forward—chin on chest. The second position of this Rite is to lean backward as far as possible. Cause the head to move still further backward. The toes will prevent you from falling over backward. The hands are always kept against the side of the legs. Next come to an erect (kneeling) position, relax as much as possible for a moment, and perform Rite all over again.\"\n\n\"Sit erect on rug or carpet with feet stretched out in front. The legs must be perfectly straight -- back of knees must be well down or close to the rug. Place the hands flat on the rug, fingers together, and the hands pointing outward slightly. Chin should be on chest -- head forward.\"\n\n\"Now gently raise the body, at the same time bend the knees so that the legs from the knees down are practically straight up and down. The arms, too, will also be vertical while the body from shoulders to knees will be horizontal. As the body is raised upward allow the head gently to fall backward so that the head hangs backward as far as possible when the body is fully horizontal. Hold this position for a few moments, return to first position, and RELAX for a few moments before performing the Rite again.\"\n\n\"When the body is pressed up to complete horizontal position, tense every muscle in the body.\"\n\n\"Place the hands on the floor about two feet apart. Then, with the legs stretched out to the rear with the feet also about two feet apart, push the body, and especially the hips, up as far as possible, rising on the toes and hands. At the same time the head should be brought so far down that the chin comes up against the chest. Next, allow the body to come slowly down to a ‘sagging’ position. Bring the head up, causing it to be drawn as far back as possible.\"\n\n\"The muscles should be tensed for a moment when the body is at the highest point, and again at the lowest point.\"\n\n\"It should be practiced only when you feel an excess of sexual energy...\"\n\"Stand straight up and slowly let all of the air out of your lungs...bend over and put your hands on your knees...with the lungs empty, return to a straight up posture. Place your hands on your hips, and press down on them... As you do this, pull in the abdomen as much as possible, and at the same time raise the chest.\nhold this position as long as you possibly can.\ntake air into your empty lungs, let the air flow in through the nose. When the lungs are full, exhale through the mouth.\nAs you exhale, relax your arms... Then take several deep breaths through the mouth or nose, allowing them to escape through either the mouth or nose.\"\n\nAccording to Kelder, Bradford's stay in the lamasery transformed him from a stooped, old gentleman with a cane to a tall and straight young man in the prime of his life. Additionally, he reported that Bradford's hair had grown back, without a trace of gray. The revised publications of \"The Eye of Revelation\" titled \"Ancient Secret of the Fountain of Youth\" also contain numerous testimonials by practitioners of the Rites, claiming that they yield positive medical effects such as improved eyesight, memory, potency, hair growth, restoration of full color to completely gray hair, and anti-aging. However, claims as to the benefits of the Rites are often exaggerated, resulting in unrealistic expectations. The benefits most likely to be achieved are increased energy, stress reduction, and an enhanced sense of calm, clarity of thought, increased strength and flexibility, resulting in an overall improvement in health and well-being.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2429234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2429234", "title": "Fluid balance", "text": "Fluid balance\n\nFluid balance is an aspect of the homeostasis of organisms in which the amount of water in the organism needs to be controlled, via osmoregulation and behavior, such that the concentrations of electrolytes (salts in solution) in the various body fluids are kept within healthy ranges. The core principle of fluid balance is that the amount of water lost from the body must equal the amount of water taken in; for example, in humans, the output (via respiration, perspiration, urination, defecation, and expectoration) must equal the input (via eating and drinking, or by parenteral intake). Euvolemia is the state of normal body fluid volume, including blood volume, interstitial fluid volume, and intracellular fluid volume; hypovolemia and hypervolemia are imbalances. Water is necessary for all life on Earth. Humans can survive for 4 to 6 weeks without food but only for a few days without water.\n\nProfuse sweating can increase the need for electrolyte replacement. Water-electrolyte imbalance produces headache and fatigue if mild; illness if moderate, and sometimes even death if severe. For example, water intoxication (which results in hyponatremia), the process of consuming too much water too quickly, can be fatal. Deficits to body water result in volume contraction and dehydration. Diarrhea is a threat to both body water volume and electrolyte levels, which is why diseases that cause diarrhea are great threats to fluid balance.\n\nThe amount of water varies with the individual, as it depends on the condition of the subject, the amount of physical exercise, and on the environmental temperature and humidity. In the US, the reference daily intake (RDI) for water is 3.7 litres per day (l/day) for human males older than 18, and 2.7 l/day for human females older than 18 including water contained in food, beverages, and drinking water. The common misconception that everyone should drink two litres (68 ounces, or about eight 8-oz glasses) of water per day is not supported by scientific research. Various reviews of all the scientific literature on the topic performed in 2002 and 2008 could not find any solid scientific evidence that recommended drinking eight glasses of water per day. For example, people in hotter climates will require greater water intake than those in cooler climates. An individual's thirst provides a better guide for how much water they require rather than a specific, fixed number. A more flexible guideline is that a normal person should urinate 4 times per day, and the urine should be a light yellow color.\n\nA constant supply is needed to replenish the fluids lost through normal physiological activities, such as respiration, perspiration and urination. Food contributes 0.5 to 1 l/day, and the metabolism of protein, fat, and carbohydrates produces another 0.25 to 0.4 l/day, which means that 2 to 3 l/day of water for men and 1 to 2 l/day of water for women should be consumed as fluid to meet the Recommended Daily Intake (RDI).\n\nIn terms of mineral nutrients intake, it is unclear what the drinking water contribution is. However, inorganic minerals generally enter surface water and ground water via storm water runoff or through the Earth's crust. Treatment processes also lead to the presence of some minerals. Examples include calcium, zinc, manganese, phosphate, fluoride and sodium compounds. Water generated from the biochemical metabolism of nutrients provides a significant proportion of the daily water requirements for some arthropods and desert animals, but provides only a small fraction of a human's necessary intake.\n\nThere are a variety of trace elements present in virtually all potable water, some of which play a role in metabolism. For example, sodium, potassium and chloride are common chemicals found in small amounts in most waters, and these elements play a role in body metabolism. Other elements such as fluoride, while arguably beneficial in low concentrations, can cause dental problems and other issues when present at high levels. Water is essential for the growth and maintenance of our bodies, as it is involved in a number of biological processes.\n\nWhen a person is ill, fluid may also be lost through vomiting, diarrhea, and hemorrhage. An individual is at an increased risk of dehydration in these instances, as the kidneys will find it more difficult to match fluid loss by reducing urine output (the kidneys must produce at least some urine in order to excrete metabolic waste.)\n\nOral rehydration therapy (ORT), is type of fluid replacement used as a treatment for dehydration. In an acute hospital setting, fluid balance is monitored carefully. This provides information on the patient's state of hydration, renal function and cardiovascular function.\n\n\nIf blood pressure is low (hypotension), the filtration rate in the kidneys will lessen, causing less fluid reabsorption and thus less urine output.\n\nAn accurate measure of fluid balance is therefore an important diagnostic tool, and allows for prompt intervention to correct the imbalance.\n\nFluid can leave the body in many ways. Fluid can enter the body as preformed water, ingested food and drink and to a lesser extent as metabolic water which is produced as a by-product of aerobic respiration (cellular respiration) and dehydration synthesis.\n\nA constant supply is needed to replenish the fluids lost through normal physiological activities, such as respiration, sweating and urination. Water generated from the biochemical metabolism of nutrients provides a significant proportion of the daily water requirements for some arthropods and desert animals, but provides only a small fraction of a human's necessary intake.\n\nIn the normal resting state, input of water through ingested fluids is approximately 1200 ml/day, from ingested foods 1000 ml/day and from aerobic respiration 300 ml/day, totaling 2500 ml/day.\n\nInput of water is regulated mainly through ingested fluids, which, in turn, depends on thirst. An insufficiency of water results in an increased osmolarity in the extracellular fluid. This is sensed by osmoreceptors in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, which trigger thirst. Thirst can to some degree be voluntarily resisted, as during fluid restriction.\n\nThe human kidneys will normally adjust to varying levels of water intake. The kidneys will require time to adjust to the new water intake level. This can cause someone who drinks a lot of water to become dehydrated more easily than someone who routinely drinks less.\n\n\nThese outputs are in balance with the input of ~2500 ml/day.\n\nThe body's homeostatic control mechanisms, which maintain a constant internal environment, ensure that a balance between fluid gain and fluid loss is maintained. The anti-diuretic hormones vasopressin (ADH) and aldosterone play a major role in this.\n\nIf the body is becoming fluid-\"deficient\", this will be sensed by osmoreceptors in the vascular organ of lamina terminalis and subfornical organ. These areas project to the supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus, which contain neurons that secrete the antidiuretic hormone, vasopressin, from their nerve endings in the posterior pituitary. Thus, there will be an increase in the secretion of antidiuretic hormone, causing fluid to be retained by the kidneys and urine output to be reduced.\n\nA fluid-insufficiency causes a decreased perfusion of the juxtaglomerular apparatus in the kidneys. This activates the renin–angiotensin system. Among other actions, it causes renal tubules (i.e. the distal convoluted tubules and the cortical collecting ducts) to reabsorb more sodium and water from the urine. Potassium is secreted into the tubule in exchange for the sodium, which is reabsorbed.\nThe activated renin–angiotensin system stimulates the zona glomerulosa of the adrenal cortex which in turn secretes the hormone aldosterone. This hormone stimulates the reabsorption of sodium ions from distal tubules and collecting ducts. Water in the tubular lumen cannot follow the sodium reabsorption osmotically, as this part of the kidney is impermeable to water; release of ADH (vasopressin) is required to increase expression of aquaporin channels in the cortical collecting duct, allowing reabsorption of water.\n\n"}
{"id": "53145901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53145901", "title": "Government Medical Officers Association", "text": "Government Medical Officers Association\n\nThe Government Medical Officers Association (GMOA) is a trade union in Sri Lanka. Founded in 1926 as the Government Medical Officers’ Association (Central Province) in Kandy, it was renamed as Government Medical Officers’ Association of Ceylon in 1927 and in 1949 registered as a trade union under the leadership of Dr E. M. Wijerama. \n\nIn 2016, the GMOA came under heavily criticism for the its demands of special admission criteria for children of its members to elite government schools by passing the national government admission process of the Ministry of Education. In July 2018 they have threaten trade union action inform of an island wide strike if there demands for schooling of doctors’ children are not met. \n\nGMOA have been highly critical of the establishment of the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (SAITM) the only private medical college in the country, calling for its closure and preventing of its graduates from registering with the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC) as medical practitioners claiming low quality of the SAITM graduates. It has called for a national front and trade union action against SAITM following a Court of Appeal decision ordering SAITM medical graduates to be register with the SLMC.\n\nThe GMOA was highly criticized for demanding duty free vehicle permits by engaging in strikes when they were reviewed by government.\n\nIn May 2017 GMOA head Anuruddha Padeniya was caught by the media granting appointements at six private hospitals during the time of a strike by the GMOA and other trade unions against the SAITM and MP Ranjan Ramanayake also got an appointement with him on a time during the strike and showed the receipt in social media and in a media conference. Dr.Padeniya quickly reacted by cancelling the appointments. OPD services and medical clinics of several government hospitals were crippled due to the strike however it was ultimately considered a failure as many hospitals continued normal work and over 200 Trade Unions opposed the GMOA strike and accused them of attempting to return Mahinda Rajapaksa back to power. Rajapaksa visited Padeniya after handing over nominations in 2015 general election and Padeniya appreciated Rajapaksa for contesting\n\nOn 18 May 2018, the GMOA initiated a countrywide 24-hour token strike disrupting healthcare services in hospitals around the island against the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) signed by the Government of Sri Lanka with Singapore and the proposed Economic and Technology Co-operation Agreement with India. The GMOA has claimed that the FTA with Singapore was not in line with the World Trade Organization and it would create avenue for foreign countries to invade Sri Lanka's job market.\n\nGMOA has been criticized for undertaking trade union action for various professional and national issues during epidemics such as influenza and dengue in the country on several occations.\n\nGMOA has apposed amendments to the Inland Revenue (IR) Act which changed the rates of income tax stating that its detrimental to professionals. In July 2018 they have threaten trade union action inform of an island wide strike if there demands are not met.\n\nFollowing strike action and discussions with officials of the Finance Ministry, Health Ministry and the GMOA, contradicting statements were released by the Health Minister stating that income tax imposed on specialist doctors will be reduced to 15% from the normal 24%; while the Finance Minister has refuted the Health Ministers statement stating that the income tax rate for 24% based on the Inland Revenue (IR) Act was not changed but provisional relief granted by changing the method of calculating tax imposed on specialist doctors.\n\nAccording to the Department of Inland Revenue, only 6,000 out of the 39,000 registered doctors pay income tax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49953560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49953560", "title": "Harold Kesling", "text": "Harold Kesling\n\nHarold Dean Kesling (April 8, 1901 – 1979) was an American Orthodontist who is known for developing the tooth positioning appliance called \"Positioner\". This appliance is used in Orthodontics at the end of treatment to allow teeth to settle in occlusion.\n\nIn 1945, H.D. Kesling stated that “Major tooth movements could be accomplished with a series of Positioners by changing the teeth on the setup slightly as treatment progresses.\" The history of clear aligner therapy began when H.D. Kesling pioneered the concept of straightening teeth without braces with the invention of the \"Positioner.\"\n\nH.D. Kesling founded orthodontic company TP Orthodontics, Inc. in 1959.\n\nHe was born in Cass County, Indiana in 1901. He graduated from Loyola University Chicago in 1923 with his dental degree. He then opened his private practice in La Porte, Indiana . In 1929, he opened his Orthodontics practice in Hammond, Indiana after receiving his orthodontic degree from Loyola University. Kesling's son, Peter Kesling, developed the Tip Edge Appliance.\n\nKesling is known for developing the Positioner Appliance. He developed this appliance during his work in the La Porte office in Indiana. His developed technique attracted many other orthodontists to his practice and Kesling gave many seminars in 1950s regarding this appliance.\n\nKesling was influenced by the work of Raymond Begg and his light wire technique. He switched his treatment to the Begg Technique after he traveled to Australia and learned about the technique. For next 40 years, Kesling would go on to use this method in his practice. Kesling eventually gave seminars and lectures on Begg technique.\n\n"}
{"id": "1676383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1676383", "title": "History of agricultural science", "text": "History of agricultural science\n\nThe history of agricultural science is a sub-field of the history of agriculture which looks at the scientific advancement of techniques and understanding of agriculture. Early study of organic production in botanical gardens was continued in with agricultural experiment stations in several countries.\n\nFertilizer is a major contribution to agriculture history increasing the fertility of the soil and minimizing nutrient loss. Scientific study of fertilizer was advanced significantly in 1840 with the publication \"Die organische Chemie in ihrer Anwendung auf Agrikulturchemie und Physiologie\" (Organic Chemistry in Its Applications to Agriculture and Physiology) by Justus von Liebig. One of Liebig's advances in agricultural science was the discovery of nitrogen as an essential plant nutrient.\n\nThe first method of soil nourishment utilized compost. Composting used rotten organic materials to replenish the soil of its nutrients and dates back to tenth and twelfth century Arab writings. Composting was a normal and widely used practice of fertilization, up into the twentieth century.\n\nJohann Friedrich Mayer was the first scientist to publish experiments on the use of gypsum as a fertilizer, but the mechanism that made it function as a fertilizer was contested by his contemporaries.\n\nJustus von Liebig, a founder of agricultural chemistry, studied organic compounds in the soil. In 1840, Liebig published what is now known as Liebig's law of the minimum. Liebig's law states that growth is not controlled by the total amount of resources available, but by the limiting factor. The three mandatory limiting factors for plant growth are nutrients like phosphorus, potassium, and nitrogen. He also focused on the importance of ammonia.\n\nThe production of synthetic ammonia was acquired by Fritz Haber and Carl Bosh. Haber discovered the reaction process to produce ammonia and Bosh was able to pressurize it to complete the process. Together Haber and Bosch came up with the Haber-Bosch process that fixated nitrogen to produce ammonia that is used in most fertilizers. In 1918 Fritz Haber received a Nobel prize in Chemistry for the invention of this process. Carl Bosch also received a Nobel Prize in 1918, but for high-pressure studies. Without the pressure studies this process wouldn’t be possible.\n\nIn the United States, a scientific revolution in agriculture began with the Hatch Act of 1887, which used the term \"agricultural science\". The Hatch Act was driven by farmers' interest in knowing the constituents of early artificial fertilizer. Later on, the Smith-Hughes Act of 1917 shifted agricultural education back to its vocational roots, but the scientific foundation had been built. After 1906, public expenditures on agricultural research in the US exceeded private expenditures for the next 44 years.\n\nA genetic study of Agricultural science began with Gregor Mendel's work. Using statistical methods, Mendel developed the model of Mendelian inheritance which accurately describes the inheritance of dominant and recessive genes. His results were controversial at the time and were not widely accepted.\n\nIn 1900, Hugo de Vries published his findings after rediscovering Mendel's work, and in 1905 William Bateson coined the term \"genetics\" in a letter to Adam Sedgwick. The study of genetics carried into an experiment isolating DNA.\n\nIn 1843, John Lawes and Henry Gilbert began a set of long-term field experiments in agronomy at Rothamsted Research Station in England; some of them are still running.\n\nIn 1905, Sir Albert Howard, studied agronomy and focused on organic agriculture processes. In 1943, Howard published his book on \"An Agriculture Testament.\" \n\nThe passing of Smith- Hughes Act in 1917 was what allowed agricultural education to enter public schools.\n\nAgriculture took a big hit between the late 1920’s and early 1930’s during the great depression and dust bowl. The Future Farmers of America (FFA), once known as Future Farmers of Virginia was created to educate and maintain interest of potential farmers in 1926. Over the years this organization has changed the world and educated many about farming processes and encouraged agriculture participation.\n\nNational Association of Agricultural Educators (NAAE) began to help give teachers the ability to start a FFA chapter in their school system and standardize the curriculum all over the country.\n\nThere are various universities around the United States which are well known for educating students in the field of the agricultural sciences. These universities include Texas A&M, Stephen F. Austin State University, University of Idaho and many others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70425", "title": "Inflammation", "text": "Inflammation\n\nInflammation (from ) is part of the complex biological response of body tissues to harmful stimuli, such as pathogens, damaged cells, or irritants, and is a protective response involving immune cells, blood vessels, and molecular mediators. The function of inflammation is to eliminate the initial cause of cell injury, clear out necrotic cells and tissues damaged from the original insult and the inflammatory process, and initiate tissue repair.\n\nThe five classical signs of inflammation are heat, pain, redness, swelling, and loss of function (Latin \"calor\", \"dolor\", \"rubor\", \"tumor\", and \"functio laesa\"). Inflammation is a generic response, and therefore it is considered as a mechanism of innate immunity, as compared to adaptive immunity, which is specific for each pathogen. Too little inflammation could lead to progressive tissue destruction by the harmful stimulus (e.g. bacteria) and compromise the survival of the organism. In contrast, chronic inflammation may lead to a host of diseases, such as hay fever, periodontitis, atherosclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and even cancer (e.g., gallbladder carcinoma). Inflammation is therefore normally closely regulated by the body.\n\nInflammation can be classified as either \"acute\" or \"chronic\". Acute inflammation is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli and is achieved by the increased movement of plasma and leukocytes (especially granulocytes) from the blood into the injured tissues. A series of biochemical events propagates and matures the inflammatory response, involving the local vascular system, the immune system, and various cells within the injured tissue. Prolonged inflammation, known as \"chronic inflammation\", leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation, such as mononuclear cells, and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process.\n\nInflammation is not a synonym for infection. Infection describes the interaction between the action of microbial invasion and the reaction of the body's inflammatory response — the two components are considered together when discussing an infection, and the word is used to imply a microbial invasive cause for the observed inflammatory reaction. Inflammation on the other hand describes purely the body's immunovascular response, whatever the cause may be. But because of how often the two are correlated, words ending in the suffix \"-itis\" (which refers to inflammation) are sometimes informally described as referring to infection. For example, the word \"urethritis\" strictly means only \"urethral inflammation\", but clinical health care providers usually discuss urethritis as a urethral infection because urethral microbial invasion is the most common cause of urethritis.\n\nIt is useful to differentiate inflammation and infection as there are many pathological situations where inflammation is not driven by microbial invasion – for example, atherosclerosis, type III hypersensitivity, trauma, and ischemia. There are also pathological situations where microbial invasion does not result in classic inflammatory response—for example, parasitosis, eosinophilia.\n\n\nAcute inflammation is a short-term process, usually appearing within a few minutes or hours and begins to cease upon the removal of the injurious stimulus. It involves a coordinated and systemic mobilization response locally of various immune, endocrine and neurological mediators of acute inflammation. In a normal healthy response, it becomes activated, clears the pathogen and begins a repair process and then ceases. It is characterized by five cardinal signs:\n\nAn acronym that may be used to remember the key symptoms is \"PRISH\", for pain, redness, immobility (loss of function), swelling and heat.\n\nThe traditional names for signs of inflammation come from Latin:\n\nThe first four (classical signs) were described by Celsus (ca. 30 BC–38 AD), while \"loss of function\" was probably added later by Galen. However, the addition of this fifth sign has also been ascribed to Thomas Sydenham and Virchow.\n\nRedness and heat are due to increased blood flow at body core temperature to the inflamed site; swelling is caused by accumulation of fluid; pain is due to the release of chemicals such as bradykinin and histamine that stimulate nerve endings. Loss of function has multiple causes.\n\nAcute inflammation of the lung (usually caused in response to pneumonia) does not cause pain unless the inflammation involves the parietal pleura, which does have pain-sensitive nerve endings.\n\nThe process of acute inflammation is initiated by resident immune cells already present in the involved tissue, mainly resident macrophages, dendritic cells, histiocytes, Kupffer cells and mast cells. These cells possess surface receptors known as \"pattern recognition receptors\" (PRRs), which recognize (i.e., bind) two subclasses of molecules: pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). PAMPs are compounds that are associated with various pathogens, but which are distinguishable from host molecules. DAMPs are compounds that are associated with host-related injury and cell damage.\n\nAt the onset of an infection, burn, or other injuries, these cells undergo activation (one of the PRRs recognize a PAMP or DAMP) and release inflammatory mediators responsible for the clinical signs of inflammation. Vasodilation and its resulting increased blood flow causes the redness (\"rubor\") and increased heat (\"calor\"). Increased permeability of the blood vessels results in an exudation (leakage) of plasma proteins and fluid into the tissue (edema), which manifests itself as swelling (\"tumor\"). Some of the released mediators such as bradykinin increase the sensitivity to pain (hyperalgesia, \"dolor\"). The mediator molecules also alter the blood vessels to permit the migration of leukocytes, mainly neutrophils and macrophages, outside of the blood vessels (extravasation) into the tissue. The neutrophils migrate along a chemotactic gradient created by the local cells to reach the site of injury. The loss of function (\"functio laesa\") is probably the result of a neurological reflex in response to pain.\n\nIn addition to cell-derived mediators, several acellular biochemical cascade systems consisting of preformed plasma proteins act in parallel to initiate and propagate the inflammatory response. These include the complement system activated by bacteria and the coagulation and fibrinolysis systems activated by necrosis, e.g. a burn or a trauma.\n\nAcute inflammation may be regarded as the first line of defense against injury. Acute inflammatory response requires constant stimulation to be sustained. Inflammatory mediators are short-lived and are quickly degraded in the tissue. Hence, acute inflammation begins to cease once the stimulus has been removed.\n\nAs defined, acute inflammation is an immunovascular response to an inflammatory stimulus. This means acute inflammation can be broadly divided into a vascular phase that occurs first, followed by a cellular phase involving immune cells (more specifically myeloid granulocytes in the acute setting). The vascular component of acute inflammation involves the movement of plasma fluid, containing important proteins such as fibrin and immunoglobulins (antibodies), into inflamed tissue.\n\nUpon contact with PAMPs, tissue macrophages and mastocytes release vasoactive amines such as histamine and serotonin, as well as eicosanoids such as prostaglandin E2 and leukotriene B4 to remodel the local vasculature. Macrophages and endothelial cells release nitric oxide. These mediators vasodilate and permeabilize the blood vessels, which results in the net distribution of blood plasma from the vessel into the tissue space. The increased collection of fluid into the tissue causes it to swell (edema). This exuded tissue fluid contain various antimicrobial mediators from the plasma such as complement, lysozyme, antibodies, which can immediately deal damage to microbes, and opsonise the microbes in preparation for the cellular phase. If the inflammatory stimulus is a lacerating wound, exuded platelets, coagulants, plasmin and kinins can clot the wounded area and provide haemostasis in the first instance. These clotting mediators also provide a structural staging framework at the inflammatory tissue site in the form of a fibrin lattice – as would construction scaffolding at a construction site – for the purpose of aiding phagocytic debridement and wound repair later on. Some of the exuded tissue fluid is also funnelled by lymphatics to the regional lymph nodes, flushing bacteria along to start the recognition and attack phase of the adaptive immune system.\n\nAcute inflammation is characterized by marked vascular changes, including vasodilation, increased permeability and increased blood flow, which are induced by the actions of various inflammatory mediators. Vasodilation occurs first at the arteriole level, progressing to the capillary level, and brings about a net increase in the amount of blood present, causing the redness and heat of inflammation. Increased permeability of the vessels results in the movement of plasma into the tissues, with resultant \"stasis\" due to the increase in the concentration of the cells within blood – a condition characterized by enlarged vessels packed with cells. Stasis allows leukocytes to marginate (move) along the endothelium, a process critical to their recruitment into the tissues. Normal flowing blood prevents this, as the shearing force along the periphery of the vessels moves cells in the blood into the middle of the vessel.\n\n\nThe \"cellular component\" involves leukocytes, which normally reside in blood and must move into the inflamed tissue via \"extravasation\" to aid in inflammation. Some act as phagocytes, ingesting bacteria, viruses, and cellular debris. Others release enzymatic granules that damage pathogenic invaders. Leukocytes also release inflammatory mediators that develop and maintain the inflammatory response. In general, acute inflammation is mediated by granulocytes, whereas chronic inflammation is mediated by mononuclear cells such as monocytes and lymphocytes.\n\nVarious leukocytes, particularly neutrophils, are critically involved in the initiation and maintenance of inflammation. These cells must be able to move to the site of injury from their usual location in the blood, therefore mechanisms exist to recruit and direct leukocytes to the appropriate place. The process of leukocyte movement from the blood to the tissues through the blood vessels is known as \"extravasation\", and can be broadly divided up into a number of steps:\n\nExtravasated neutrophils in the cellular phase come into contact with microbes at the inflamed tissue. Phagocytes express cell-surface endocytic pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) that have affinity and efficacy against non-specific microbe-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). Most PAMPs that bind to endocytic PRRs and initiate phagocytosis are cell wall components, including complex carbohydrates such as mannans and β-glucans, lipopolysaccharides (LPS), peptidoglycans, and surface proteins. Endocytic PRRs on phagocytes reflect these molecular patterns, with C-type lectin receptors binding to mannans and β-glucans, and scavenger receptors binding to LPS.\n\nUpon endocytic PRR binding, actin-myosin cytoskeletal rearrangement adjacent to the plasma membrane occurs in a way that endocytoses the plasma membrane containing the PRR-PAMP complex, and the microbe. Phosphatidylinositol and Vps34-Vps15-Beclin1 signalling pathways have been implicated to traffic the endocytosed phagosome to intracellular lysosomes, where fusion of the phagosome and the lysosome produces a phagolysosome. The reactive oxygen species, superoxides and hypochlorite bleach within the phagolysosomes then kill microbes inside the phagocyte.\n\nPhagocytic efficacy can be enhanced by opsonization. Plasma derived complement C3b and antibodies that exude into the inflamed tissue during the vascular phase bind to and coat the microbial antigens. As well as endocytic PRRs, phagocytes also express opsonin receptors Fc receptor and complement receptor 1 (CR1), which bind to antibodies and C3b, respectively. The co-stimulation of endocytic PRR and opsonin receptor increases the efficacy of the phagocytic process, enhancing the lysosomal elimination of the infective agent.\n\nSpecific patterns of acute and chronic inflammation are seen during particular situations that arise in the body, such as when inflammation occurs on an epithelial surface, or pyogenic bacteria are involved.\n\nInflammatory abnormalities are a large group of disorders that underlie a vast variety of human diseases. The immune system is often involved with inflammatory disorders, demonstrated in both allergic reactions and some myopathies, with many immune system disorders resulting in abnormal inflammation. Non-immune diseases with causal origins in inflammatory processes include cancer, atherosclerosis, and ischemic heart disease.\n\nExamples of disorders associated with inflammation include:\n\nAtherosclerosis, formerly considered a bland lipid storage disease, actually involves an ongoing inflammatory response. Recent advances in basic science have established a fundamental role for inflammation in mediating all stages of this disease from initiation through progression and, ultimately, the thrombotic complications of atherosclerosis. These new findings provide important links between risk factors and the mechanisms of atherogenesis. Clinical studies have shown that this emerging biology of inflammation in atherosclerosis applies directly to human patients. Elevation in markers of inflammation predicts outcomes of patients with acute coronary syndromes, independently of myocardial damage. In addition, low-grade chronic inflammation, as indicated by levels of the inflammatory marker C-reactive protein, prospectively defines risk of atherosclerotic complications, thus adding to prognostic information provided by traditional risk factors. Moreover, certain treatments that reduce coronary risk also limit inflammation. In the case of lipid lowering with statins, this anti-inflammatory effect does not appear to correlate with reduction in low-density lipoprotein levels. These new insights into inflammation in atherosclerosis not only increase our understanding of this disease but also have practical clinical applications in risk stratification and targeting of therapy for this scourge of growing worldwide importance.\n\nAn allergic reaction, formally known as type 1 hypersensitivity, is the result of an inappropriate immune response triggering inflammation, vasodilation, and nerve irritation. A common example is hay fever, which is caused by a hypersensitive response by mast cells to allergens. Pre-sensitised mast cells respond by degranulating, releasing vasoactive chemicals such as histamine. These chemicals propagate an excessive inflammatory response characterised by blood vessel dilation, production of pro-inflammatory molecules, cytokine release, and recruitment of leukocytes. Severe inflammatory response may mature into a systemic response known as anaphylaxis.\n\nInflammatory myopathies are caused by the immune system inappropriately attacking components of muscle, leading to signs of muscle inflammation. They may occur in conjunction with other immune disorders, such as systemic sclerosis, and include dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and inclusion body myositis.\n\nDue to the central role of leukocytes in the development and propagation of inflammation, defects in leukocyte functionality often result in a decreased capacity for inflammatory defense with subsequent vulnerability to infection. Dysfunctional leukocytes may be unable to correctly bind to blood vessels due to surface receptor mutations, digest bacteria (Chédiak–Higashi syndrome), or produce microbicides (chronic granulomatous disease). In addition, diseases affecting the bone marrow may result in abnormal or few leukocytes.\n\nCertain drugs or exogenous chemical compounds are known to affect inflammation. Vitamin A deficiency causes an increase in inflammatory responses, and anti-inflammatory drugs work specifically by inhibiting the enzymes that produce inflammatory eicosanoids. Certain illicit drugs such as cocaine and ecstasy may exert some of their detrimental effects by activating transcription factors intimately involved with inflammation (e.g. NF-κB).\n\nInflammation orchestrates the microenvironment around tumours, contributing to proliferation, survival and migration. Cancer cells use selectins, chemokines and their receptors for invasion, migration and metastasis. On the other hand, many cells of the immune system contribute to cancer immunology, suppressing cancer.\nMolecular intersection between receptors of steroid hormones, which have important effects on cellular development, and transcription factors that play key roles in inflammation, such as NF-κB, may mediate some of the most critical effects of inflammatory stimuli on cancer cells. This capacity of a mediator of inflammation to influence the effects of steroid hormones in cells, is very likely to affect carcinogenesis on the one hand; on the other hand, due to the modular nature of many steroid hormone receptors, this interaction may offer ways to interfere with cancer progression, through targeting of a specific protein domain in a specific cell type. Such an approach may limit side effects that are unrelated to the tumor of interest, and may help preserve vital homeostatic functions and developmental processes in the organism.\n\nAccording to a review of 2009, recent data suggests that cancer-related inflammation (CRI) may lead to accumulation of random genetic alterations in cancer cells.\n\nIn 1863, Rudolf Virchow hypothesized that the origin of cancer was at sites of chronic inflammation. At present, chronic inflammation is estimated to contribute to approximately 15% to 25% of human cancers.\n\nAn inflammatory mediator is a messenger that acts on blood vessels and/or cells to promote an inflammatory response. Inflammatory mediators that contribute to neoplasia include prostaglandins, inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-15 and chemokines such as IL-8 and GRO-alpha. These inflammatory mediators, and others, orchestrate an environment that fosters proliferation and survival.\n\nInflammation also causes DNA damages due to the induction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by various intracellular inflammatory mediators. In addition, leukocytes and other phagocytic cells attracted to the site of inflammation induce DNA damages in proliferating cells through their generation of ROS and reactive nitrogen species (RNS). ROS and RNS are normally produced by these cells to fight infection. ROS, alone, cause more than 20 types of DNA damage. Oxidative DNA damages cause both mutations and epigenetic alterations. RNS also cause mutagenic DNA damages. \nA normal cell may undergo carcinogenesis to become a cancer cell if it is frequently subjected to DNA damage during long periods of chronic inflammation. DNA damages may cause genetic mutations due to inaccurate repair. In addition, mistakes in the DNA repair process may cause epigenetic alterations. Mutations and epigenetic alterations that are replicated and provide a selective advantage during somatic cell proliferation may be carcinogenic.\n\nGenome-wide analyses of human cancer tissues reveal that a single typical cancer cell may possess roughly 100 mutations in coding regions, 10-20 of which are “driver mutations” that contribute to cancer development. However, chronic inflammation also causes epigenetic changes such as DNA methylations, that are often more common than mutations. Typically, several hundreds to thousands of genes are methylated in a cancer cell (see DNA methylation in cancer). Sites of oxidative damage in chromatin can recruit complexes that contain DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs), a histone deacetylase (SIRT1), and a histone methyltransferase (EZH2), and thus induce DNA methylation. DNA methylation of a CpG island in a promoter region may cause silencing of its downstream gene (see CpG site and regulation of transcription in cancer). DNA repair genes, in particular, are frequently inactivated by methylation in various cancers (see hypermethylation of DNA repair genes in cancer). A 2018 report evaluated the relative importance of mutations and epigenetic alterations in progression to two different types of cancer. This report showed that epigenetic alterations were much more important than mutations in generating gastric cancers (associated with inflammation). However, mutations and epigenetic alterations were of roughly equal importance in generating esophageal squamous cell cancers (associated with tobacco chemicals and acetaldehyde, a product of alcohol metabolism).\n\nIt has long been recognized that infection with HIV is characterized not only by development of profound immunodeficiency but also by sustained inflammation and immune activation. A substantial body of evidence implicates chronic inflammation as a critical driver of immune dysfunction, premature appearance of aging-related diseases, and immune deficiency. Many now regard HIV infection not only as an evolving virus-induced immunodeficiency but also as chronic inflammatory disease. Even after the introduction of effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) and effective suppression of viremia in HIV-infected individuals, chronic inflammation persists. Animal studies also support the relationship between immune activation and progressive cellular immune deficiency: SIVsm infection of its natural nonhuman primate hosts, the sooty mangabey, causes high-level viral replication but limited evidence of disease. This lack of pathogenicity is accompanied by a lack of inflammation, immune activation and cellular proliferation. In sharp contrast, experimental SIVsm infection of rhesus macaque produces immune activation and AIDS-like disease with many parallels to human HIV infection.\n\nDelineating how CD4 T cells are depleted and how chronic inflammation and immune activation are induced lies at the heart of understanding HIV pathogenesis––one of the top priorities for HIV research by the Office of AIDS Research, National Institutes of Health. Recent studies demonstrated that caspase-1-mediated pyroptosis, a highly inflammatory form of programmed cell death, drives CD4 T-cell depletion and inflammation by HIV. These are the two signature events that propel HIV disease progression to AIDS. Pyroptosis appears to create a pathogenic vicious cycle in which dying CD4 T cells and other immune cells (including macrophages and neutrophils) release inflammatory signals that recruit more cells into the infected lymphoid tissues to die. The feed-forward nature of this inflammatory response produces chronic inflammation and tissue injury. Identifying pyroptosis as the predominant mechanism that causes CD4 T-cell depletion and chronic inflammation, provides novel therapeutic opportunities, namely caspase-1 which controls the pyroptotic pathway. In this regard, pyroptosis of CD4 T cells and secretion of pro-inflmammatory cytokines such as IL-1β and IL-18 can be blocked in HIV-infected human lymphoid tissues by addition of the caspase-1 inhibitor VX-765, which has already proven to be safe and well tolerated in phase II human clinical trials. These findings could propel development of an entirely new class of “anti-AIDS” therapies that act by targeting the host rather than the virus. Such agents would almost certainly be used in combination with ART. By promoting “tolerance” of the virus instead of suppressing its replication, VX-765 or related drugs may mimic the evolutionary solutions occurring in multiple monkey hosts (e.g. the sooty mangabey) infected with species-specific lentiviruses that have led to a lack of disease, no decline in CD4 T-cell counts, and no chronic inflammation.\n\nThe inflammatory response must be actively terminated when no longer needed to prevent unnecessary \"bystander\" damage to tissues. Failure to do so results in chronic inflammation, and cellular destruction. Resolution of inflammation occurs by different mechanisms in different tissues.\nMechanisms that serve to terminate inflammation include:\n\nThere is evidence for a link between inflammation and depression. Inflammatory processes can be triggered by negative cognitions or their consequences, such as stress, violence, or deprivation. Thus, negative cognitions can cause inflammation that can, in turn, lead to depression.\nIn addition there is increasing evidence that inflammation can cause depression because of the increase of cytokines, setting the brain into a \"sickness mode\". Classical symptoms of being physically sick like lethargy show a large overlap in behaviors that characterize depression. Levels of cytokines tend to increase sharply during the depressive episodes of people with bipolar disorder and drop off during remission. Furthermore, it has been shown in clinical trials that anti-inflammatory medicines taken in addition to antidepressants not only significantly improves symptoms but also increases the proportion of subjects positively responding to treatment.\nInflammations that lead to serious depression could be caused by common infections such as those caused by a virus, bacteria or even parasites.\n\nAn infectious organism can escape the confines of the immediate tissue via the circulatory system or lymphatic system, where it may spread to other parts of the body. If an organism is not contained by the actions of acute inflammation it may gain access to the lymphatic system via nearby lymph vessels. An infection of the lymph vessels is known as lymphangitis, and infection of a lymph node is known as lymphadenitis. When lymph nodes cannot destroy all pathogens, the infection spreads further. A pathogen can gain access to the bloodstream through lymphatic drainage into the circulatory system.\n\nWhen inflammation overwhelms the host, systemic inflammatory response syndrome is diagnosed. When it is due to infection, the term sepsis is applied, with the terms bacteremia being applied specifically for bacterial sepsis and viremia specifically to viral sepsis. Vasodilation and organ dysfunction are serious problems associated with widespread infection that may lead to septic shock and death.\n\nInflammation also induces high systemic levels of acute-phase proteins. In acute inflammation, these proteins prove beneficial; however, in chronic inflammation they can contribute to amyloidosis. These proteins include C-reactive protein, serum amyloid A, and serum amyloid P, which cause a range of systemic effects including:\n\nInflammation often affects the numbers of leukocytes present in the body:\n\nWith the discovery of interleukins (IL), the concept of systemic inflammation developed. Although the processes involved are identical to tissue inflammation, systemic inflammation is not confined to a particular tissue but involves the endothelium and other organ systems.\n\nChronic inflammation is widely observed in obesity. The obese commonly have many elevated markers of inflammation, including:\n\nLow-grade chronic inflammation is characterized by a two- to threefold increase in the systemic concentrations of cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-6, and CRP. Waist circumference correlates significantly with systemic inflammatory response. A predominant factor in this correlation is due to the autoimmune response triggered by adiposity, whereby immune cells may mistake fatty deposits for intruders. The body attacks fat like it does bacteria and fungi. When expanded fat cells leak or break open, macrophages mobilize to clean up and embed into the adipose tissue. Then macrophages release inflammatory chemicals, including TNF-α and IL-6. TNF's primary role is to regulate the immune cells and induce inflammation. White blood cells then assist by releasing more cytokines. This link between adiposity and inflammation has been shown to produce 10–35% of IL-6 in a resting individual, and this production increases with increasing adiposity.\n\nLoss of white adipose tissue reduces levels of inflammation markers. The association of systemic inflammation with insulin resistance and atherosclerosis is the subject of intense research.\n\nIn the obese mouse models, inflammation and macrophage-specific genes are upregulated in white adipose tissue (WAT). There were also signs of dramatic increase in circulating insulin level, adipocyte lipolysis and formation of multinucleate giant cells. The fat-derived protein called angiopoietin-like protein 2 (Angptl2) elevates in fat tissues. Higher than normal Angptl2 level in fat tissues develop inflammation as well as insulin and leptin resistance. Stored fat secretes leptin to signal satiety. Leptin resistance plays a role in the process where appetite overrules the message of satiety. Angptl2 then starts an inflammatory cascade causing blood vessels to remodel and attract macrophages. Angptl2 is an adipocyte-derived inflammatory mediator linking obesity to systemic insulin resistance. It is possible that, as an inflammatory marker, leptin responds specifically to adipose-derived inflammatory cytokines.\n\nC-reactive protein (CRP) is generated at a higher level in obese people. It raises when there is inflammation throughout the body. Mild elevation in CRP increases risk of heart attacks, strokes, high blood pressure, asthma exacerbations, muscle weakness and fragility.\n\nHyperglycemia induces IL-6 production from endothelial cells and macrophages. Meals high in saturated fat, as well as meals high in calories have been associated with increases in inflammatory markers. In addition, interstitial abdominal adiposity (also referred to as accumulated intra-abdominal fat) may be a factor in increasing systemic risk for multiple inflammatory diseases. Although the exact mechanisms are still being investigated, a review published in 2010 suggested that significant growth of adipose tissue in response to overeating can evoke a chronic inflammatory response.\n\nThe outcome in a particular circumstance will be determined by the tissue in which the injury has occurred and the injurious agent that is causing it. Here are the possible outcomes to inflammation:\n\n\nInflammation is usually indicated by adding the suffix \"itis\", as shown below. However, some conditions such as asthma and pneumonia do not follow this convention. More examples are available at list of types of inflammation.\n\nThe Dietary Inflammatory Index (DII) is a score (number) that describes the potential of diet to modulate systemic inflammation within the body. As stated chronic inflammation is linked to most chronic diseases including arthritis, many types of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, inflammatory bowel diseases, and diabetes.\n\nAcute inflammation of the muscle cells, as understood in exercise physiology, can result after induced eccentric and concentric muscle training. Participation in eccentric training and conditioning, including resistance training and activities that emphasize eccentric lengthening of the muscle including downhill running on a moderate to high incline can result in considerable soreness within 24 to 48 hours, even though blood lactate levels, previously thought to cause muscle soreness, were much higher with level running. This delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) results from structural damage to the contractile filaments and z-disks, which has been noted especially in marathon runners whose muscle fibers revealed remarkable damage to the muscle fibers after both training and marathon competition . The onset and timing of this gradient damage to the muscle parallels the degree of muscle soreness experienced by the runners.\n\nZ-disks are the point of contact for the contractile proteins. They provide structural support for transmission of force when muscle fibers are activated to shorten. However, in marathon runners and those who subscribe to the overload principle to enhance their muscles, show moderate Z-disk streaming and major disruption of thick and thin filaments in parallel groups of sarcomeres as a result of the force of eccentric actions or stretching of tightened muscle fibers.\n\nThis disruption of muscle fibers triggers white blood cells to increase following induced muscle soreness, leading to the inflammatory response observation from induced muscle soreness. Elevations in plasma enzymes, myoglobinemia, and abnormal muscle histology and ultrastructure are concluded to be associated with inflammatory response. High tension in the contractile-elastic system of muscle results in structural damage to the muscle fiber and plasmalemma and its epimysium, perimysium, and/or endomysium. The mysium damage disrupts calcium homeostasis in injured fibers and fiber bundles, resulting in necrosis that peaks about 48 hours after exercise. The products of macrophage activity and intracellular contents (such as histamines, kinins, and K) accumulate outside cells. These substances then stimulate free nerve endings in the muscle; a process that appears accentuated by eccentric exercise, in which large forces are distributed over a relatively small cross-sectional area of the muscle .\n\nThere is a known relationship between inflammation and muscle growth. For instance, high doses of anti-inflammatory medicines (e.g., NSAIDs) are able to blunt muscle growth. Cold therapy has been shown to negatively affect muscle growth as well. Reducing inflammation results in decreased macrophage activity and lower levels of IGF-1 Acute effects of cold therapy on training adaptations show reduced satellite cell proliferation. Long term effects include less muscular hypertrophy and an altered cell structure of muscle fibers.\n\nIt has been further theorized that the acute localized inflammatory responses to muscular contraction during exercise, as described above, are a necessary precursor to muscle growth. As a response to muscular contractions, the acute inflammatory response initiates the breakdown and removal of damaged muscle tissue. Muscles can synthesize cytokines in response to contractions, such that the cytokines interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), TNF-α, and IL-6 are expressed in skeletal muscle up to 5 days after exercise.\n\nIn particular, the increase in levels of IL-6 (interleukin 6), a myokine, can reach up to one hundred times that of resting levels. Depending on volume, intensity, and other training factors, the IL-6 increase associated with\ntraining initiates about 4 hours after resistance training and remains elevated for up to 24 hours.\n\nThese acute increases in cytokines, as a response to muscle contractions, help initiate the process of muscle repair and growth by activating satellite cells within the inflamed muscle. Satellite cells are crucial for skeletal muscle adaptation to exercise. They contribute to hypertrophy by providing new myonuclei and repair damaged segments of mature myofibers for successful regeneration following injury- or exercise-induced muscle damage; high-level powerlifters can have up to 100% more satellite cells than untrained controls.\n\nA rapid and transient localization of the IL-6 receptor and increased IL-6 expression occurs in satellite cells following contractions. IL-6 has been shown to mediate\nhypertrophic muscle growth both \"in vitro\" and \"in vivo\". Unaccustomed exercise can increase IL-6 by up to sixfold at 5 hours post-exercise and threefold 8 days after exercise. Also telling is the fact that NSAIDs can decrease satellite cell response to exercise, thereby reducing exercise-induced protein synthesis.\n\nThe increase in cytokines (myokines) after resistance exercise coincides with the decrease in levels of myostatin, a protein that inhibits muscle differentiation and growth. The cytokine response to resistance exercise and moderate-intensity running occur differently, with the latter causing a more prolonged response, especially at the 12–24 hour mark.\n\nDeveloping research has demonstrated that many of the benefits of exercise are mediated through the role of skeletal muscle as an endocrine organ. That is, contracting muscles release multiple substances known as myokines, including but not limited to those cited in the above description, which promote the growth of new tissue, tissue repair, and various anti-inflammatory functions, which in turn reduce the risk of developing various inflammatory diseases. The new view that muscle is an endocrine organ is transforming our understanding of exercise physiology and with it, of the role of inflammation in adaptation to stress.\n\nBoth chronic and extreme inflammation are associated with disruptions of anabolic signals initiating muscle growth. Chronic inflammation has been implicated as part of the cause of the muscle loss that occurs with aging. Increased protein levels of myostatin have been described in patients with diseases characterized by chronic low-grade inflammation. Increased levels of TNF-α can suppress the AKT/mTOR pathway, a crucial pathway for regulating skeletal muscle hypertrophy, thereby increasing muscle catabolism. Cytokines may antagonize the anabolic effects of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). In the case of sepsis, an extreme whole body inflammatory state, the synthesis of both myofibrillar and sarcoplasmic proteins are inhibited, with the inhibition taking place preferentially in fast-twitch muscle fibers. Sepsis is also able to prevent leucine from stimulating muscle protein synthesis. In animal models, when inflammation is created, mTOR loses its ability to be stimulated by muscle growth.\n\nRegular physical activity is reported to decrease markers of inflammation, although the correlation is imperfect and seems to reveal differing results contingent upon training intensity. For instance, while baseline measurements of circulating inflammatory markers do not seem to differ greatly between healthy trained and untrained adults, long-term training may help reduce chronic low-grade inflammation. On the other hand, levels of the anti-inflammatory myokine IL-6 (interleukin 6) remained elevated longer into the recovery period following an acute bout of exercise in patients with inflammatory diseases, relative to the recovery of healthy controls. It may well be that low-intensity training can reduce resting pro-inflammatory markers (CRP, IL-6), while moderate-intensity training has milder and less-established anti-inflammatory benefits. There is a strong relationship between exhaustive exercise and chronic low-grade inflammation. Marathon running may enhance IL-6 levels as much as 100 times over normal and increases total leuckocyte count and neturophil mobilization.\n\nRegarding the above, IL-6 had previously been classified as a proinflammatory cytokine. Therefore, it was first thought that the exercise-induced IL-6 response was related to muscle damage. However, it has become evident that eccentric exercise is not associated with a larger increase in plasma IL-6 than exercise involving concentric “nondamaging” muscle contractions. This finding clearly demonstrates that muscle damage is not required to provoke an increase in plasma IL-6 during exercise. As a matter of fact, eccentric exercise may result in a delayed peak and a much slower decrease of plasma IL-6 during recovery.\n\nRecent work has shown that both upstream and downstream signalling pathways for IL-6 differ markedly between myocytes and macrophages. It appears that unlike IL-6 signalling in macrophages, which is dependent upon activation of the NFκB signalling pathway, intramuscular IL-6 expression is regulated by a network of signalling cascades, including the Ca2+/NFAT and glycogen/p38 MAPK pathways. Thus, when IL-6 is signalling in monocytes or macrophages, it creates a pro-inflammatory response, whereas IL-6 activation and signalling in muscle is totally independent of a preceding TNF-response or NFκB activation, and is anti-inflammatory.\n\nSeveral studies show that markers of inflammation are reduced following longer-term behavioural changes involving both reduced energy intake and a regular program of increased physical activity, and that, in particular, IL-6 was miscast as an inflammatory marker. For example, the anti-inflammatory effects of IL-6 have been demonstrated by IL-6 stimulating the production of the classical anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-1ra and IL-10. As such, individuals pursuing exercise as a means to treat the causal factors underlying chronic inflammation are pursuing a course of action strongly supported by current research, as an inactive lifestyle is strongly associated with the development and progression of multiple inflammatory diseases. Note that cautions regarding over-exertion may apply in certain cases, as discussed above, though this concern rarely applies to the general population.\n\nGiven that localized acute inflammation is a necessary component for muscle growth, and that chronic low-grade inflammation is associated with a disruption of anabolic signals initiating muscle growth, it has been theorized that a signal-to-noise model may best describe the relationship between inflammation and muscle growth. By keeping the \"noise\" of chronic inflammation to a minimum, the localized acute inflammatory response signals a stronger anabolic response than could be achieved with higher levels of chronic inflammation.\n"}
{"id": "37654378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37654378", "title": "Intarcia Therapeutics", "text": "Intarcia Therapeutics\n\nIntarcia Therapeutics is an American biopharmaceutical company based in Boston, MA and incorporated under the laws of Delaware. It was founded in 1995 under the name \"BioMedicines\" and changed to its present name in 2004. In 2013, Intarcia relocated its headquarters to Boston, keeping its manufacturing facility in Hayward, CA. In addition to Boston and Hayward, Intarcia also has a location in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, where it discovers and develops peptides for its drug delivery system.\n\nIn 2005, the executive leadership of Intarcia was largely vested in two people, Karling Leung and James Ahlers, President/CEO/Director and Vice President/CFO/Finance & Operations Officer, respectively. By 2012, Kurt Graves had replaced Karling Leung as President and CEO. Kurt Graves has been with Intarcia since August 2010, first serving as Executive Chairman before becoming President and CEO in April 2012.\n\n, Intarcia is engaged in development of a \"potential once-a-year type 2 diabetes treatment\". Referred to as ITCA 650, the therapeutic consists of exenatide delivered via its Medici Drug Delivery System, \"a drug delivery platform that stabilizes and delivers therapeutic proteins and peptides\".\n\nIn November 2012, Intarcia received $210M in preferred stock and debt financing from, The Baupost Group, Farallon Capital Management, New Enterprise Associates, New Leaf Venture Partners and Venrock Associates. \n, Alta Partners and Granite Venture Partners.\n\nIn April 2014, Intarcia secured an additional $200M in financing. RA Capital led the round and was joined by new and existing investors. In April 2015, the company raised $225M in exchange for 1.5% of future global net sales of ITCA 650. In May 2016, Intarcia secured an additional $75M in financing to scale-up manufacturing and inventory in anticipation of ITCA 650s global launch. In September 2016, Intarcia raised an additional $215M in equity financing to prepare for the commercial launch of ITCA 650 in late 2017 and additional pipeline programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "33904937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33904937", "title": "Irish College of Ophthalmologists", "text": "Irish College of Ophthalmologists\n\nThe Irish College of Ophthalmologists or ICO is the recognised body for ophthalmology training in Ireland. Founded in 1991, it represents over 200 ophthalmologists in Ireland and Europe. Its current president is Alison Blake. Yvonne Delaney serves as Dean.\n\nThe ICO is overseen by its Council which is elected every 3 years by College members. The College also appoints a Clinical Lead for National Clinical Programme in Ophthalmology, a Dean of Postgraduate Education, and a Programme Director for Surgical Training. The business of the College is assisted by: a Manpower, Education and Training Committee; a Medical Ophthalmology Committee; an Ethics Committee; and a Scientific and Continuing Professional Development Committee.\n\nIn conjunction with the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI), the ICO oversees postgraduate medical and surgical ophthalmology training in Ireland. The ICO is a recognised training body of the Irish Medical Council. Its remit includes approval of hospital training posts. As part of its international activities, the College is twinned with the New England Ophthalmological Society. In 2011, the ICO introduced an online Professional Competency Scheme, to comply with new legislation and Irish Medical Council regulations. The ICO also collaborates with the Health Service Executive and engages in outreach and education for patients and the general public.\n\nThe ICO and RCSI supervise and co-ordinate the two strands of the ophthalmology training programme in Ireland: Basic Surgical Training (BST) and Higher Surgical Training (HST). Completion of a pre-registration intern year is required before applying for ophthalmology training.\n\nThe BST programme involves rotating through various sub-specialities. Trainees work as Senior House Officers over a minimum of three years at hospital sites in one of three combinations:\nFormal training includes use of surgical simulators, continuous assessment and a mandatory human factors course. During the BST, trainees sit examinations at RVEEH to gain Membership of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, the MRCSI (Ophth) qualification. At the end of the BST, successful trainees receive the Certificate of Completion of Basic Surgical Training (CCBST), with which they may apply for the competitive HST programme.\n\nThe HST scheme is a pre-requisite for obtaining a post as a hospital consultant. HST lasts four-and-a-half years and covers seven core sub-specialities:\nTrainees are assessed every 6 months and in their final year must complete a fellowship exam, the FRCSI (Ophth). This exit exam comprises a one-hour viva voce and a written test. Successful candidates also receive the Certificate of Completion of Specialist Training (CCST).\n\nThe ICO holds an annual international conference where members and guests present research abstract, talks and posters. From 2000 to 2011, the annual ICO/Pfizer Research Fellowship was presented at the conference. The award sponsored trainee doctors to undertake research in ophthalmology. From 2013, the ICO partnered with Novartis to sponsor the ICO/Novartis Research Award. In 2017, the ICO introduced a Clinical Fellowship Bursary, in conjunction with Bayer.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47857689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47857689", "title": "Isaac Folorunso Adewole", "text": "Isaac Folorunso Adewole\n\nIsaac Folorunso Adewole (born 5 May 1954) is a Nigerian professor of gynaecology and obstetrics. Since November 2015 he has been the Minister of Health in the Cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari. He is a former vice-chancellor of the University of Ibadan and president of the African Organisation for Research and Training in Cancer. Prior to his appointment as the 11th substantive vice-chancellor of the university, he served as provost at the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, the largest and oldest medical school in Nigeria. His research interest is in the area of human papillomavirus, HIV, and gynaecologic oncology, a specialised field of medicine that focuses on cancers of the female reproductive system, including ovarian cancer, uterine cancer, vaginal cancer, cervical cancer, and vulvar cancer. Adewole is a member of the governing council of Adeleke University and chairs the National Panel on Cervical Cancer Control Policy.\nHe is the only Nigerian professor appointed as member of the Council of the Association of Commonwealth Universities. He was appointed to serve as a member of the international advisory board of the African Cancer Institute, a comprehensive cancer centre in sub-Saharan black Africa.\n\nIn 2014, he celebrated his 60th birthday. In a public lecture held at the International Conference Centre of the University of Ibadan it was recalled how traducers tried relentlessly to sabotage his appointment as the vice-chancellor of the institution in 2010. The chairman of the 60th birthday celebration was Wole Olanipekun, a legal luminary, Senior Advocate of Nigeria, former president of the Nigerian Bar Association, and a past Pro-Chancellor of the university. He described Adewole as a \"cat not only with nine lives, but one with 18 lives, who surmounted all the travails and conspiratorial petitions hatched against him by his traducers.\" In 2012, he was elected as a Fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Science, the apex academic organisation in Nigeria. He was inducted into the academy along with Professor Mojeed Olayide Abass, a Nigerian professor of computer science at the University of Lagos, and Professor Akinyinka Omigbodun, the president of the West African College of Surgeons and former provost of the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan.\n\nIn 2014, he was appointed as a member of Adeleke University's governing council and in June 2015 he was appointed as a member of Pan-African University's governing council. Pan-African University is a post-graduate training and research network of university nodes in five regions, supported by the African Union. On 28 March 2015, he was appointed as Independent National Electoral Commission's Collation Officer in Lagos State for the Nigerian general election, 2015 and on 11 April, he served as returning officer for the Lagos State gubernatorial election. On 11 November 2015 he was appointed Minister for Health of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.\n\nAdewole was born on 5 May 1954 at Ilesa, a city in Osun State in southwestern Nigeria. His parents are traders and his choice of career was informed by his father, who was an agent of United Africa Company, a British company which principally traded in West Africa during the 20th century.\n\nHis initial plan was to choose a career in aeronautics, particularly aerospace engineering, though his school guidance counselor suggested subjects which were useful for a career in medicine. In 1960, he attended Ogudu Methodist Primary School, Ilesa, where he spent one year, and Methodist School, Oke Ado in Ibadan, where he also spent one year before he completed his primary education at St Mathias Demonstration School Akure. He later attended Ilesa Grammar School, where he obtained a Grade I certificate with distinction in 1970 and Higher School Certificate (HSC) in 1972. In October 1973, he enrolled at the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan; there he obtained an MBBS degree and in 1978 won the Glaxo Allenbury prize for outstanding performance in paediatrics.\n\nIn 1978, the same year he graduated from the University of Ibadan, he joined the University College Hospital, Ibadan. In 1979, he left the hospital for Sokoto for a compulsory year of service in the National Youth Service Corps. On completion of his service, he worked for a year as a medical officer at Adeoyo Maternity Hospital, Ibadan, before returning to the college hospital as a senior house officer of the department of obstetrics and gynaecology. He held the position for one year before he was appointed registrar in 1982. In 1985, he left Nigeria for a research fellowship in the department of medical oncology at Charing Cross Hospital in London. Following completion of the fellowship programme, he returned to Nigeria to join the Royal Crown Specialist Hospital, Ibadan, where he spent four years before returning to the University College Hospital as Consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist.\n\nHe began his academic career as lecturer grade I at the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, where he became a senior lecturer in 1992. On 1 October 1997, he was appointed a professor of medicine at the University of Ibadan, the same year he was appointed as a member of the University Senate. In 1999, he was appointed as acting head of the department of obstetrics and gynaecology. He served in that capacity for one year. On 1 August 2000, he was appointed as the Dean, Faculty of Clinical Sciences and Dentistry, a position he held until 31 July 2002. On 1 August 2002 he was appointed as Provost, college of medicine and was succeeded by Professor Akinyinka Omigbodun. While serving in this capacity, he was member of the committee of provost and deans as well as chairman, university campus committee on AIDS. He also served as Chairman of the committee on evaluation of academic staff in 2004. On 1 May 2010, he became an adjunct professor at Northwestern University in Chicago. In December 2010, he was appointed as the 11th substantive vice-chancellor of the University of Ibadan, succeeding Olufemi Bamiro, a mechanical engineering professor and member of the Nigerian Academy of Engineering.\n\nBetween 1989 and 1992, he was an editorial adviser to the \"Nigerian Medical Journal\" and in 1997, he became a member of editorial board of the \"Nigerian Journal of Medicine\". He is currently serving as a member of oncology clinical reviews. He is also a member of the editorial board of \"The Global Santé Journal\". He has published over 180 scholarly articles and tens of books and has contributed to hundreds of other books as well.\n\nAdewole is a health advocator. He is a coordinator of the Campaign Against Unwanted Pregnancy, a multidisciplinary not-for-profit organisation consisting of medical practitioners, social scientists, nurses, and teachers. He organized a free cervical cancer screening campaign and was part of the team that introduced sexual rights into the curriculum of medical schools in Nigeria. He is involved in Nigerian medical politics. He was influenced by Dr. Kayode Obembe, the former President of the Nigerian Medical Association, who encouraged him in the early 1980s to contest the seat of secretary to the Resident Doctors Association. In 1982, Adewole was elected as the Secretary-general of the University of Ibadan Chapter of the Association of Resident Doctors. He served in that capacity for one year. In 1984 he was elected president of the National Association of Resident Doctors of Nigeria and led a nationwide strike that resulted in his dismissal by the then military head of state, General Muhammadu Buhari, who is currently the President of Nigeria. When Buhari declared him a wanted man, Adewole went into exile. He worked at the Cancer Campaign Research Institute in London, where he authored four papers. He later returned to Nigeria and was elected deputy Secretary-general of the Nigerian Medical Association in 1988. In 1990 he was elected Secretary-general of the Nigerian Medical Association. He held the position for two years, and in 1993, he was elected chairman of the Oyo State chapter of the Nigerian Medical Association. In March 1992 he was elected assistant secretary-general of the Confederation of African Medical Associations and Societies, and after his tenure ended in August 1997 he was elected secretary of the African regional task force on the control of gynaecological cancers.\n\nIn addition to his outstanding contributions to medicine and academics, he is also a pundit. In his welcome address at a public lecture organised by the Consortium for Advanced Research Training in Africa held at the International Conference Centre, International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, Ibadan, he lamented the decline of Africa's contribution to global scientific output. He advocated for the commensurate expansion in doctoral training to meet the human resources needs of the new institutions as well as the existing ones.\n\nIn 2014, during the Ebola virus outbreak in Nigeria, he led a panel of experts to brainstorm on the latest scientific information on the nature of the virus, its signs, symptoms, and prevention. At a meeting held at the University of Ibadan to mobilise against the virus, he said \"Nigeria is still safe, though we suffered a biological attack when Mr. Patrick Sawyer came into Nigeria from Liberia\". He called on security agencies to investigate the bank accounts of Patrick Sawyer, who imported the virus into the country, to discover if he was paid to terrorise the country with the virus.\n\nWhile receiving an award of excellence for outstanding contributions to obstetrics and gynaecology at the University of Sunderland 2015 convocation ceremonies, he said any war against terror must be fought through collective efforts to nip it in the bud. An African proverb says 'Until you unmask it, a masquerade remains a terror'. A war against terror – of any kind – is best achieved through collective efforts. Our modest contributions from our corner of the globe have helped in restoring hope to millions of people without hope. It has become a lamp among the armament that unmasked the monster HIV, and we shall continue to beam the light of research on all threats to human existence. As part of efforts to end insurgency in Nigeria, the Ambassador of France to Nigeria Jacques Champagne de Labriolle visited Adewole in his office at the University of Ibadan. Adewole described the ambassador's visit as \"auspicious and timely in the history of Nigeria.\" He said \"our country must gladly engage the French-speaking countries, if we really want to maintain security for the citizenry. I believe that creating a long-term security should be our main concern just as the initiative of our president was so strategic, having recently visited France.\"\n\nOn 12 October 2015, Adewole was nominated as Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by Muhammadu Buhari.\nThe Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) lauded his nomination and described him as a \"round peg in a round hole suitable for president's change agenda\". In his remarks, chairman of the union Professor Olusegun Ajiboye described the nomination as a \"right step towards the change that Nigeria needs by appointing change agents who have achieved global recognition in their chosen academic career and have unblemished administrative records\".\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported that Dr. Ademola Aremu, the National Treasurer of the Union, said that the story of Prof. Adewole 'IFA' as we popularly called him is the story of someone who has been destined to serve humanity. His achievements as a provost of the college of medicine made him to receive overwhelming support from the university community when he indicated interest to serve on the university governing council and later on as vice chancellor. As vice chancellor, he totally turned the university around in terms of staff and student welfare, academically, University of Ibadan unarguably became the best in Nigeria and one of the best in Africa.\n\nIn the same vein, the chairman of the University of Ibadan Senior Staff Association of Universities Wale Akinremi said \"the nomination of Prof. Isaac Folorunsho Adewole as a minister was received by the university of Ibadan community with great enthusiasm. We can vouch for his professional pedigree and administrative competence.\"\n\nOn 11 November 2015, Adewole was appointed as minister of health in Buhari's administration. He called for stakeholders in the health sector to collaborate enable the ministry achieve Buhari's health agenda. According to \"The Nation\", Adewole said for the apex policy on health to be achieved, we need to work together and working together means we can make a huge difference. We have been described as a generation that enjoyed better health when we were young than now and our aim is to bring back the health care system we enjoyed when we were young.\n\nIn his capacity as minister, Adewole was appointed by WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to serve on the Independent High-level Commission on Non-Communicable Diseases from 2018 until 2019. In addition, he is a member of the Family Planning 2020 (FP2020) Reference Group.\n\nAdewole is one of Nigeria's most prolific writers in the medical field. He has authored over 200 scholarly articles in learned journals and over 20 books in various areas of medicine. In 2005, he authored \"Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV\" in Nigeria; the book was published by the Harvard University Press. In April 2011, he made a presentation on the topic at Global Health Week at Northwestern University, Chicago.\nIn 2007, he co-authored a training manual on sexual and reproductive health and rights and HIV prevention for medical students in Nigeria. The manual is currently being used in medical colleges in Nigerian universities.\n\nHe has attended over 100 scientific conferences in more than 20 countries and has presented posters and abstracts at numerous international conferences. For instance, at the International Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections organised held in 2009 in Montreal, Adewole presented his abstract on \"Mother's Prophylaxis Regimen Strongly Predicts Risk of Early Mother-to-Child Transmission in Large ART Program in Nigeria\".\nIn 2009, he attended the International Aids Conference held in South Africa, where he presented his abstract on the \"Impact of Social Support in a PMTCT programme\".\n\nAdewole has received several fellowship awards, such as the fellowship of the Nigerian Academy of Science, the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria, and fellowship of the West African College of Surgeons. He is a member of several academic organisations such as the American Society of Clinical Oncology, International Agency for Research on Cancer, Nigerian Medical Association, International AIDS Society, International AIDS Society, International Society for Infectious Diseases, and the Society of Gynaecology and Obstetrics of Nigeria. In 2013, he became the only Nigerian professor appointed to serve as member of council of the Association of Commonwealth Universities. The association represents 535 universities from 37 Commonwealth countries. He was also appointed as a member of the international advisory board of the African Cancer Institute, a comprehensive cancer centre in sub-Saharan black Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "45663045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45663045", "title": "Jalmari Ruokokoski", "text": "Jalmari Ruokokoski\n\nJoel Jalmari Ruokokoski, known as Jali (1886-1936) was a Finnish Expressionist painter. Although most of his works were landscapes and still-lifes, he is probably best known for a series of portraits (including numerous self-portraits) painted mostly during the 1910s. Ruokokoski was a member of the November Group, (\"Marraskuun ryhmä\"). \nHis father was a shoemaker from Savonia. The family returned to Finland when he was thirteen and settled in Helsinki. He studied at the \"Central School of Art and Design\" from 1902 to 1904 and at the \"Art Society Drawing School\" from 1903 to 1906. His first public showing came in 1905. Until his first artistic breakthrough came four years later, he earned extra money by drawing advertisements and cartoons. In 1907 he was engaged with a girl named Olga, whom he had encountered in a cafe that he frequently visited. The engagement was broken after a short while the same year.\n\nHe was very fond of public festivities; especially the circus. In 1909 he married a Swedish-Italian tightrope walker named Elvira Bono. In 1910, they were able to take a trip to Paris, courtesy of a scholarship, and he was introduced to the work of the Impressionists.\n\nIn 1912, he spent some time in Helsingør, Denmark, with the family of Niels-Peder Rydeng (1880-1949), a tailor and art collector who had once employed the Finnish artist Tyko Sallinen. Word had gotten about that Rydeng was a generous man who would offer free room and board in return for paintings. He stayed for several weeks, producing sixty paintings, including portraits of Rydeng's family. They developed a lasting friendship and Ruokokoski returned there many times for brief visits. \n\nBack in Helsinki, he was able to sell all the paintings he had brought with him at an exhibition in the Athenaeum, but spent most of the money on a drinking and partying binge. This (and a possible flirtation while he was in Helsingør) created a rift between him and his wife, which widened, so they separated. He attempted to emigrate to America in 1914, but the police removed him from the ship due to unpaid debts.\n\nIn 1915, he settled in Hyvinkää, where he and Sallinen opened adjacent studios called \"Humala ja Krapula\" (Drunk and Hungover). Ruokokoski lived in \"Drunk\", painting what he saw from his windows, with an occasional trip to do landscapes. He stayed there until 1918, when he divorced Elvira and married Saima Forsström, a model, despite his studio's financial failure. They stayed together for ten years, then separated, although they never divorced and he continued to visit their five children.\n\nHe was always successful as an artist, exhibiting throughout Scandinavia as well as Rome and Milan, but continued to squander most of his money and was never far from financial ruin. He began producing quickly sketched pictures of simple things such as leaves, food and sunsets to earn extra income. An antique shop that he opened in 1924 failed after only a year. By 1931, he was barely eking out a living from a small tenement apartment.\n\nHis last exhibition was in 1935. Toward the end of that year, he was hospitalized for alcohol abuse, which had damaged his liver and given him throat cancer. He died the following Spring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22989717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22989717", "title": "Jay M. Gould", "text": "Jay M. Gould\n\nJay Martin Gould (August 19, 1915 – September 16, 2005), was a statistician and epidemiologist who cofounded the Radiation and Public Health Project in 1989. It was Gould's contention that radiation from nuclear power plants was causing high rates of cancer in surrounding neighborhoods. For more than two decades, Gould routinely warned that low levels of radiation from nuclear reactors were far more dangerous than commonly believed. But his research was criticized by many in the scientific community as being alarmist.\n\nIn 1996, Gould published the book \"The Enemy Within: The High Cost of Living Near Nuclear Reactors\".\n\nGould was born in Chicago in 1915 and raised in New York. He earned his bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College and his doctorate from Columbia University. He was originally an economist before becoming interested in radiation.\n\nThe following is a partial list of articles authored or co-authored by Jay Martin Gould.\n\nThe following is a partial list of books authored or co-authored by Jay Martin Gould. Where possible, the date indicated in parentheses is the date of the first edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20275416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20275416", "title": "Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation", "text": "Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation\n\nThe Joint Monitoring Programme (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation by WHO and UNICEF is the official United Nations mechanism tasked with monitoring progress towards the Sustainable Development Goal Number 6 (SDG6) since 2016.\n\nUntil 2015, JMP was tasked with monitoring the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) relating to drinking water and sanitation (MDG 7, Target 7c), which was to: \"Halve, by 2015, the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking-water and basic sanitation\".\n\nThe JMP is housed within the World Health Organization and UNICEF, and supported by a Strategic Advisory Group of independent technical and policy experts as well as various Technical Task Forces convened around important specific topics.\n\nThe JMP’s four priority areas of activity for 2010-2015 are:\n1. maintaining the integrity of the JMP database and ensuring accurate global estimates;\n2. disseminating data to stakeholders;\n3. fulfilling the JMP’s normative role in developing and validating target indicators;\n4. enhancing interaction between countries and JMP.\n\nIn 2015, the JMP released its latest estimates on the use of various types of drinking-water sources and sanitation facilities at the national, regional and global levels.\n\nThe JMP makes its data and information available through a variety of channels and formats, including workshops in countries, its major biennial reports and website, the UNICEF statistical website, and through Google Public Data. The data are also used by the World Bank and the World Health Organization's Statistical Information System (WHOSIS).\n\nThe JMP collaborates with other international and national organizations to strengthen global and domestic monitoring. The Programme also plays an advocacy role, highlighting the right to improved drinking water and sanitation for populations missing out and helping to target interventions.\n\nIn preparation for the post-2015 period (Sustainable Development Goals), the JMP has initiated four working groups which are developing potential future targets and indicators for water, sanitation, hygiene and equity/non-discrimination).\n\nAs well as reporting on the national, regional and global use of different types of drinking water sources and sanitation facilities, the JMP actively supports countries in their efforts to monitor this sector and develop evidence based planning and management, plays a normative role in indicator formation and advocates on behalf of populations without improved water or sanitation.\n\nThe JMP vision is to accelerate progress towards universal and sustainable access for underserved populations in the developing world to safe water and basic sanitation, including the achievement of the MDG targets by 2015.\n\nThe JMP’s mission is to be the trusted source of global, regional and national data on sustainable access to safe drinking-water and basic sanitation, for use by governments, donors, international organizations and civil society.\n\nThe JMP uses the following MDG indicators for monitoring:\nAn improved water source is defined by the JMP as one that, by nature of its construction or through active intervention, is likely to be protected from outside contamination, in particular from contamination with fecal matter. An improved sanitation facility is defined as one that is likely to hygienically separate human excreta from human contact, and some examples are given in the definition.\n\nThe JMP does not collect primary data itself. Instead, to the extent possible, it exclusively uses data from primary sources such as censuses and national household surveys that are conducted by national statistical authorities every few years. These surveys include the UNICEF-supported Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) and the USAID funded Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS). One of the challenges faced by the JMP is that the definitions for an improved water source and improved sanitation are not consistent across countries. Another challenge is that censuses and surveys are only conducted every few years. The JMP thus uses linear regression to estimate data for a given year in a particular country even if no survey or census was carried out in that year, in order to be able to compare data across countries for the given year.\n\nThe indicators used by the JMP are controversial because they cannot always match cultural and local perceptions of what works or not, and can differ from national estimates. Discrepancies between national and international (JMP) coverage estimates are generally due to one or more of the following:\n\n1) Use of different definitions of access including poorly defined access categories\n\n2) Exclusion of users of shared sanitation facilities of an otherwise improved type, from those considered to have improved sanitation\n\n3) Use of latest survey or census findings vs. use of an interpolated estimates based on linear regression\n\n4) Use of different population estimates, including a different distribution of urban and rural populations\n\n5) Use of “old” estimates which do not reflect the latest or all findings from new sample surveys or a new census\n\n6) Use of “reported” line ministry data vs. use of independently verifiable data from sample surveys or censuses\n\nComplete information about drinking water safety, and the reliability and sustainability of drinking water and sanitation facilities is not available globally, and so these dimensions are not included in the current indicator definitions. Systematically testing the microbial and chemical quality of water at the national level in all countries is prohibitively expensive and logistically complicated. However, the JMP is working to include these challenging dimensions to the extent possible in future indicators. \n\nBetween 2002 and 2008, the Rapid Assessment of Drinking-Water Quality (RADWQ) project was designed and the quality of drinking-water from improved sources was evaluated in a number of pilot countries. In 2011 the JMP focused its thematic report on equity, safety and sustainability. In 2012 the JMP has been supporting the piloting of water quality testing alongside household surveys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46530087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46530087", "title": "Leveraged Freedom Chair", "text": "Leveraged Freedom Chair\n\nThe Leveraged Freedom Chair (LFC) is an all-terrain wheelchair made from bicycle parts.\n\nAmos Winter, a PHD graduate from MIT, travelled to Tanzania during his work, and found that conventional wheelchairs are inadequate in areas without wheelchair accessible roads and buildings. He and his students from his mechanical engineering class worked together on the development of the project. The tests of the LFC were conducted in East Africa, Guatemala and India.\n\nIn addition to a normal wheelchair pushrim, the wheelchair has a lever drivetrain that lets the user grip the lever far from the wheel for high torque on rough terrain.The levers can be removed and stored on the chair, allowing it to be used like a normal wheelchair indoors. The wheelchairs are designed to be produced at low cost from commonly available bicycle parts, and to be repaired and maintained at local bicycle shops.\n\nThe chair is developed by a group called Global Research Innovation & Technology. The chair is sold at around US $250 to NGOs, less than the price of common wheelchairs.\n\nThe GRIT Freedom Chair is an off-road sports chair designed for the developed world. The product launched on Kickstarter with a lowest price point of US$2,195, which sold out.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11220981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11220981", "title": "List of political parties in Southern Africa by country", "text": "List of political parties in Southern Africa by country\n"}
{"id": "31870806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31870806", "title": "Maggie Lettvin", "text": "Maggie Lettvin\n\nMargaret B. Lettvin is an American writer and promoter of exercise and health. She was known in the Boston area in the 1970s for a PBS television show on WGBH-TV called \"Maggie and The Beautiful Machine\", and a book based on the show. After a serious car accident, she developed a set of exercises for back pain, which became \"Maggie's Back Book\" ().\n\nShe is the widow of the late MIT Professor Emeritus Jerome Lettvin, with whom she served as houseparent of the MIT Bexley dorm. They had three children: David, Ruth, and Jonathan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24132721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24132721", "title": "Marketed Health Products Directorate", "text": "Marketed Health Products Directorate\n\nThe Marketed Health Products Directorate (MHPD) is the Canadian federal authority that monitors the safety and effectiveness of health products marketed in Canada. These include:\n\nAs part of Health Canada, MHPD collects and analyzes reports of adverse health product reactions through its network of regional reporting centres and disseminates new health product safety information. \n"}
{"id": "19809804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19809804", "title": "Massed negative practice", "text": "Massed negative practice\n\nMassed negative practice (MNP) is a proposed treatment for the tics of Tourette syndrome in which the individual with Tourette's \"practices\" tics continuously until a conditioned level of fatigue is reached. It is based upon the Hullian learning theory, which holds that tics are \"maladaptive habits that are strengthened by repetition and can be replaced by the strengthening of more adaptive habits (i.e., not having tics)\". There is little evidence supporting its efficacy in the treatment of tics.\n"}
{"id": "5445902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5445902", "title": "National Board Dental Examination", "text": "National Board Dental Examination\n\nNational Board Dental Examination (NBDE) is the United States national dental examination for students and professionals in dentistry. It is required for licensure in the United States and may also be required when applying for postgraduate studies in dental specialities after completing a dental degree. Foreign-trained dentists also must take the NBDE in order to earn admission into advanced standing programs in US dental schools. \n\nThe American Student Dental Association sells reprints of previously released exams as study guides for students in their online store.\n\nNBDE I consists of 400 multiple choice questions emphasizing basic sciences: <br>\n1. Human Anatomy, Embryology, and Histology <br>\n2. Biochemistry and Physiology <br>\n3. Microbiology and Pathology <br>\n4. Dental Anatomy and Occlusion.\n\nNBDE II requires two days and focuses on clinical dental topics:<br>\n1. Endodontics<br>\n2. Operative Dentistry<br>\n3. Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery/Pain Control <br>\n4. Oral Diagnosis <br>\n5. Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry <br>\n6. Patient Management, including Behavioral Science, Dental Public Health and Occupational Safety <br>\n7. Periodontics <br>\n8. Pharmacology <br>\n9. Prosthodontics\n\nScoring\n\nSince 2012 the NBDE exams have been graded on a PASS/FAIL basis only, with no scores being issued unless one failed he will receive his score with details . If a student passes they are not allowed to take the exam again, unless required by a state board or relevant regulatory agency. The Joint Commission on National Dental Examinations (JCNDE) changed the test to pass/fail because the test was being used as a measuring stick for students getting into specialty programs. The test's original purpose was to assist the state in making licensure decisions, not as a criterion for specialty programs. The JCNDE felt the NBDE was an unreliable indicator of success in specialties so they removed the scoring completely.\n"}
{"id": "5218889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5218889", "title": "National Leadership Network for Health and Social Care", "text": "National Leadership Network for Health and Social Care\n\nThe National Leadership Network for Health and Social Care (NLN), before 2005 the NHS Modernisation Board, is a coalition of stakeholders in the English National Health Service (NHS).\n\nIts purpose is to advise the Ministerial team at the Department of Health on issues of NHS reform. There are twice-yearly meetings with the ministerial team to review progress and set priorities. The Network has no executive power, but seeks to influence both government policy and the work of member organisations.\n\nIn April 2006 the Network issued a paper \"Strengthening local services: The Future of the acute hospital\" which considers the ways in which local acute hospitals will have to change and adapt given changes in the NHS as a whole.\n\n"}
{"id": "23618866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23618866", "title": "Normal yield (agriculture)", "text": "Normal yield (agriculture)\n\nNormal yield is an agricultural term referring to the average historic yield established for a particular farm or area. It is also used to describe average yields. Normal production would be the normal crop acreage planted multiplied by the normal yield. These measures, once required by commodity programs to calculate benefits, are replaced by base acres, payment acres, and payment yield under the 2002 farm bill (P.L. 101-171, Sec. 1101-1102).\n"}
{"id": "18721647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18721647", "title": "Northampton State Hospital", "text": "Northampton State Hospital\n\nNorthampton State Hospital was a historic Psychiatric hospital at 1 Prince Street on top of Hospital Hill outside of Northampton, Massachusetts. The hospital building was constructed in 1856, operated until 1993, and was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1994.\n\nConstruction of the State Hospital at Northampton, the third state institution for the insane in the state of Massachusetts began on March 15, 1856 on top of Hospital Hill outside of Northampton, Massachusetts.\n\nOn July 4 (United States Independence Day) of the same year the cornerstone was laid. For posterity, a time capsule was embedded within the cornerstone, where it would lay undisturbed on top of Hospital Hill for 150 years. The hospital consisted of Old Main (the original Kirkbride hospital building), and infirmaries, staff dormitories, a work farm, and other buildings including a brand new memorial complex which was established later.\n\nThe asylum received its first patients on August 16, 1858. Within six weeks, the population would reach 220, most of whom were transfers from other institutions long overwhelmed. The original design specified a maximum of 200 patients, but this limit was raised to 250 by the statewide hospital Commissioners before the asylum opened. After only two months the Board of Trustees speculated that the limit could be raised to 300 patients. As the patient population accelerated, the wards of Old Main were built onto so much that its original design looked nothing like its new shape. Soon, the population grew so much that several new infirmaries had to be built to sustain the patients.\n\nThe first superintendent, Dr. Prince, resigned in 1864, and Dr. Pliny Earle was selected as his replacement. Dr. Earle immediately began to cultivate a strong work therapy program by expanding the farm, constructing a greenhouse as well as other service-oriented buildings. When he retired in 1885, Dr. Earle was given an apartment within the asylum out of gratitude for his twenty-one years of service. The population had reached 476 patients.\n\nThe start of the 20th century was marked with a change in name from the State Hospital at Northampton to the Northampton Insane Hospital, and two years later to Northampton State Hospital. Northampton State Hospital, under superintendent John A. Houston, continued constructing buildings such as large infirmary wards built on either end of the hospital in 1902 and 1903. In 1907, the same year Bishop's Crook lamps were installed around the hospital grounds, “A Mind That Found Itself” was published. In it Clifford W. Beers, a former patient of several institutions, argues that contrary to what the public had been led to believe, no one knew how to cure insanity. That year the population at Northampton stood at 726 patients.\n\nDesigned to accommodate 1000 patients, in 1925 work began on the largest expansion of Northampton State Hospital: Memorial Complex. Set apart from the original “Old Main” section of the asylum, Memorial Complex became the focal point for most of the construction, expansions and later operations of Northampton State Hospital, and it allowed the population to swell to more than 2,100 patients in 1935. As the asylum's population became crowded, patients were deported to other hospitals and causing several small buildings were built around Old Main. Also, Old Main had been expanded so much, the original shape of the building no longer resembled a bat wing.\nAfter nearly a century of constant construction, Northampton State Hospital continued to grow. In 1952, the same year Thorazine, the first anti-psychotic was introduced, and 2,331 patients were served by 509 staff. The Haskell building, which still serves as an office for the Massachusetts Department of Mental Health, was added in 1959.\n\nOn January 6, 1978 the United States District Court approved the Brewster Consent Decree, which made clear a patient's constitutional right to treatment in the least restrictive environment possible. Under terms set forth in the Decree the State Hospital was to reduce the number of patients it served to 50 by 1981. This process would ultimately take 14 rather than 3 years.\n\nIn 1980 Northampton State Hospital registered its 64,500th admission, while simultaneously attempting to reduce the total population. Patients were either reassigned to other, usually smaller facilities, or were simply dismissed. Ex-patients entered a largely ignorant and sometimes hostile community; for some, poverty and homelessness were as immediate as the citywide controversy. Debate raged all around Northampton.\n\nAfter 130 years, Old Main was abandoned in 1986. Operations at Memorial Complex continued until 1993, when the last 12 patients were reassigned, and Northampton State Hospital was officially closed. Plans to preserve and reuse the buildings had gained some popularity around the turn of the millennium; however, city administrators only seriously considered demolition to redevelop the property. In 2006 Old Main was finally demolished, and by the following summer, the Memorial Complex was gone.\n\nIn 2007, the city of Northampton adopted a smart growth zoning overlay district covering the grounds of the Northampton State Hospital as part of Massachusetts's \"Smart Growth Zoning Overlay District Act\" enacted in 2004. The zoning district is designed to promote mixed-use, pedestrian-friendly development, and in 2008, the 40-unit Village Hill development broke ground on the former hospital grounds.\n\nOn November 17 and 18, 2000 a series of memorial events took place in Northampton focusing on the history of Northampton State Hospital. The two-day event titled \"The State Hospital: In Memoriam\" included an academic symposium, an open forum with former patients, and three art exhibitions. The event was sponsored by the Massachusetts Mental Health Center (MMHC) Continuing Education Program and offered continuing education credits to psychologists and nurses in attendance.\n\nThe first day of the academic symposium featured the research and experiences of psychiatrists, mental health professionals, and academics from around the United States. An open forum took place the morning of the second day, during which former patients shared stories of their experiences inside the hospital. The event closed with a sound installation at the site of the hospital's Old Main building. The art installation was designed by visual artist Anna Schuleit Haber and intended to reference the events of the laying of the hospital cornerstone in 1856. Attendants of the forum walked in procession to the former hospital grounds. At noon, bells from surrounding churches rang in unison to invoke a communal moment of silence, followed by “Habeas Corpus,” a sound installation in which J.S. Bach's Magnificat, played on installed speakers from inside the empty old main building. The memorial series closed after the end of the 28-minute sound installation.\n\nOn October 21, 2017, The Northampton Historical Commission dedicated a new bench in memory to the Northampton State Hospital Burial Ground. The bench overlooks Cemetery Hill, which was used as a burial ground by the hospital until the 1920s. There are 181 confirmed burials for patients who died at Northampton State Hospital, in unmarked graves at this site. The new bench replaced a temporary marker planted at the site since 1959. The new bench is the first step as part of the proposed Northampton State Hospital Walking Tour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55621482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55621482", "title": "Onsan illness", "text": "Onsan illness\n\nOnsan Illness () is the name for a pollution disease in Korea that occurred in Onsan-eup, Ulju-gun, Ulsan, Korea. It caused a variety of symptoms in the general public and gave rise to an environmental movement in the mid-1980s. \nIn the 1970s South Korea’s dictator Park Chung Hee pushed for a heavy-chemical industry drive in an effort to modernise the country’s economy and make it less dependent on foreign imports, while encouraging foreign direct investment. The South Gyeongsang Province was one of the areas identified for industrial development along with the independently administered coastal corridor between Ulsan and Busan. From 1974 onwards, an area of 2,000 ha in Onsan - to the south of Ulsan - became home to a multitude of industrial complexes, with 12 chemical factories initially in operation. After 1990, the area grew to more than 120 factories employing over 10,000 staff.\n\nThe environmental impact gained initial visibility with gas leaks in 1982 and 1984 which required hospitalisation of over 100 residents. In 1983, the local government suspended the fishing rights of the largely rural population over concerns of pollution. In 1985, media began reporting of an illness that may have affected over 500 residents which was believed to be environmental. After the government ran blood and urine tests, an official statement pushed back on the theory of poisoning. However, environmental action groups questioned those results.\n\nIn 1985 the environmental organisations KRIPP and KAPMA – predecessors of the Korean Federation for Environmental Movement – drew public attention to cases of unexplained illness which seems to cluster around the city of Onsan. The primary symptom was neuralgia, but cases of eye and skin irritation as well as breathing problems were also reported. Most such cases became statistically relevant from 1980 onwards, when pollution became a significant problem. \n\nThe collective group of symptoms was termed \"Onsan illness\" as a root cause was initially unknown and later thought to be cadmium poisoning. It is believed that over 500 cases of cadmium poisoning have occurred in Onsan. \n\nComparisons have been drawn with the Itai-itai disease, which caused similar symptoms and was caused by cadmium poisoning from the mining industry in the Toyama prefecture in Japan.\nThe health impact combined with the risk to their livelihoods sparked a grass roots movement supported by the media. While the government maintained their position that poisoning is not the cause of this illness, it did admit to high pollution in the area. As a result, from 1991 between 30,000 and 40,000 residents were re-housed away from the affected area as part of a \"Collective Emigration Plan\". It is thought that over time some of those may have returned.\n"}
{"id": "39634264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39634264", "title": "Opium production in Myanmar", "text": "Opium production in Myanmar\n\nOpium production in Myanmar has historically been a major contributor to the country's gross domestic product (GDP). Myanmar is the world's second largest producer of opium after Afghanistan, producing some 25% of the world's opium, and forms part of the Golden Triangle. The opium industry was a monopoly during colonial times and has since been illegally operated by corrupt officials in the Burmese military and rebel fighters, primarily as the basis for heroin manufacture. \n\nProduction is mainly concentrated in the Shan and Kachin states. Due to poverty, opium production is attractive to impoverished farmers as the financial return from poppy is 17 times more than that of rice. The yield during 2012 was 690 tons, valued at US $359 million. \n\nEconomic specialists indicate that recent trends in growth have the potential to increase the gap between the rich and the poor in the country, empowering criminal rackets at the expense of democracy.\n\nOpium has been present in Myanmar (formerly known as Burma) since as early as the 1750s, during which the Kongbaug Dynasty was in power. The United States provided economic aid to the country then known as Burma in 1948 to reduce the opium trade. Between 1974–78, Burma received eighteen helicopters from the US for opium caravan interception.\nIn 1990, Myanmar was producing more than half of the world's opium. The percentage dropped to one third by 1998. In 1999, the country reported a goal to become opium-free by 2014. \n\nAccording to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, it is estimated that in 2005 there was some dedicated to opium cultivation in Myanmar. According to a United Nations report, opium production has increased every year since then and as of 2012 had increased to around . There is a crackdown on the trade and since 1998 production in Myanmar has fallen overall by some 83% as of 2012; and in 2012 alone some of poppy fields had been eradicated, but the general trend is a steady increase in production according to recent surveys. \n\nAs of 2012, some 300,000 households in Myanmar were involved in the industry. As of 2012, China had over 1.1 million registered drug addicts and accounted for over 70 per cent of all heroin consumption in the Asia-Pacific region. In 2012, Myanmar produced 690 metric tons with a value of approximately $359 million.\n\nMyanmar is also one of three countries of the golden \"triangle\" with Thailand and Laos forming the other two arms, where opium production accounted for about 50% of the world's consumption in 1990 but was reduced to about 33% by 1998. Myanmar part of this triangle is reported to be a lawless region.\n\nMyanmar is the world's second largest producer of opium after Afghanistan, producing some 25% of the world's opium. In the past, though, it was \"the world's unrivaled leader in opiate production\". Production is mainly concentrated in the Shan and Kachin states. China is the most important market for Burmese opium, due to an increase in heroin addiction in the country. \n\nOn an annual rate, production of opium in the country was estimated to be some , according to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in 1956. However, in 2012 it was a record 690 metric tons with estimated value of about US $359 million, due to increased demand during last six years in succession, in Asia. \n\nIn just one year between 2011 and 2012 the land area brought under opium crop has shot up from 40,000 ha to 51,000 ha, a 17% increase.\n\nPrior to the 1980s, heroin was typically transported from Myanmar to Thailand, before being trafficked by sea to Hong Kong, which was and still remains the major transit point at which heroin enters the international market. Now, drug trafficking has circumvented to southern China (from Yunnan, Guizhou, Guangxi, Guangdong) because of a growing market for drugs in China, before reaching Hong Kong.\n\nThe prominence of major drug traffickers have allowed them to penetrate other sectors of the Burmese economy, including the banking, airline, hotel and infrastructure industries. Their investment in infrastructure have allowed them to make more profits, facilitate drug trafficking and money laundering.\n\nDue to the ongoing, rural-based insurgencies within Myanmar, many farmers have little alternative but to engage in opium production, which is used to make heroin. Most of the money earned from opium sales go into the drug barons' pockets; the amount left is used to sustain the livelihood of the farmers. Economic specialists indicate that recent trends in growth have the potential to increase the gap between the rich and the poor in the country, empowering criminal rackets at the expense of democracy.\n\nWith the establishment of the democratic government after the rule of a military junta, there is hope that opium eradication would be a serious public policy. The new government has taken steps to reform the system but the ground situation is otherwise as there is an upsurge in its production and this is attributed in a report by the UN as due to \"the resurgence in opium production in Southeast Asia is the demand for opiates, both locally and in the region in general\". \n\nGovernment reports claim that in 2012, a fourfold increase of elimination of poppy fields has been effected amounting to 24,000 hectares of poppy fields. According to the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) land poppy cultivation registered an increase of 17 percent, the highest increase in eight years.\n\n"}
{"id": "32424889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32424889", "title": "Psychiatric pharmacy", "text": "Psychiatric pharmacy\n\nPsychiatric pharmacy, also known as mental health pharmacy, is the area of clinical pharmacy specializing in the treatment of people with psychiatric illnesses through the use of psychotropic medications. It is a branch of neuropsychiatric pharmacy, which includes neurologic pharmacy. \n\nThe College of Psychiatric and Neurologic Pharmacists (CPNP) is a professional organization that represents psychiatric pharmacists within the United States. CPNP credits two key pharmacists with developing clinical psychiatric pharmacy as a specialty: Dr. Glen Stimmel, PharmD, BCPP and Dr. R. Lee Evans, PharmD, FASHP, BCPP. Dr. Stimmel would later become a founding member of CPNP, as well as serve as its president. Dr. Matthew Fuller PharmD, BCPP, FASHP, CPNP Foundation President 2006-2007, has recognized Dr. Stimmel as the “Father of Psychiatric Pharmacy.\" The specialty of psychiatric pharmacy was recognized by the Board of Pharmacy Specialties (BPS) in 1992.\n\nPsychiatric pharmacy is practiced by psychiatric (also called \"neuropsychiatric\") pharmacists. Psychiatric pharmacists tend to have a board certification in the specialty of psychiatric pharmacy, granting the title of Board Certified Psychiatric Pharmacist (BCPP) by the BPS, and attach the post-nominals after their professional degrees. Because the BPS does not have a separate certification for neurologic pharmacists, neurologic pharmacists may be classified as BCPP's as well (indeed, there is a significant amount of overlap between the two subspecialties). It is not uncommon for psychiatric pharmacists to be residency trained through a specialized residency (post-graduate year 2, abbreviated \"PGY2\") program in psychiatric pharmacy. Psychiatric pharmacists work in both the inpatient and outpatient settings.\n\nPsychiatric pharmacists working for the Veterans Health Administration can have salaries between $112,268-145,955.\n\nPsychiatric pharmacy is practiced by specialist mental health pharmacists. Specialist mental health pharmacists tend to work in the inpatient setting, within mental health hospitals. Credentialing is performed through the College of Mental Health Pharmacy (CMHP), which assesses the experience and aptitude of pharmacists working in the field of mental health (psychiatric) pharmacy. Credentialed members are granted the title of Member of the College of Mental Health Pharmacy (MCMHP), and attach the post-nominals after their professional degrees.\n\nAs experts in pharmacotherapy, psychiatric pharmacists are trained to assure that patients suffering from mental illness are treated with the most appropriate medications for their conditions. They provide a variety of services aimed at making sure that patients are treated safely, that side effects are minimized (if not eliminated), and that pharmacologic treatments are efficacious at controlling or halting disease progression. \n\nPsychiatric pharmacists provide a service called comprehensive medication management (CMM), which involves a thorough assessment of a patient's present and past medication history, laboratory work-up and exam findings, and treatment goals. During CMM, psychiatric pharmacists look for drug related problems (DRPs) related to their patients' pharmacotherapy and correct them in collaboration with psychiatrists, social workers, and other members of the interdisciplinary healthcare team, collaborating closely with the patient and their family.\n\nPsychiatric pharmacists provide therapeutic drug monitoring, which involves ordering laboratory tests that will measure the concentration of a medication in the blood. This is especially useful in the area of psychiatric pharmacy because a lot of drugs used to treat psychiatric illnesses (for example, lithium citrate and clozapine) have a narrow therapeutic window. There is a lot of potential for severe adverse reactions when using certain psychiatric medications, making therapeutic drug monitoring a useful tool for preventing harmful outcomes. The National Council for Behavioral Health, a collaborative that represents the interests of psychiatric professional organizations, offers recommendations for targeted, interdisciplinary interventions by psychiatric pharmacists, including pharmacist-lead clozapine clinics and providing long-acting injectable antipsychotic administration services.\n\nPsychiatric pharmacists are sometimes involved in collaborative practice agreements which physicians, which allows pharmacists to add or remove medications from a patient's drug regimen, change the strengths/dose or frequencies of medications, the duration of treatment, and the route of administration. Combined with therapeutic drug monitoring, this allows psychiatric pharmacists to directly make changes to a patient's drug regimen based on the results from laboratory tests.\n\n"}
{"id": "46787895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46787895", "title": "Pure Indian Foods", "text": "Pure Indian Foods\n\nPure Indian Foods is an organic, grass-fed herbal and spiced ghee manufacturer and distributor headquartered in Princeton Junction, New Jersey. The company was founded by Sandeep Agarwal and his wife in 2008.\n\nPure Indian Foods is based out of Princeton, New Jersey and owned by husband and wife team, Sandeep and Nalini Agarwal. In 1889, Nalini’s family founded a ghee business in northern India. In 2008, the Agarwal's established Pure Indian Foods to continue his family business in the United States. Previously, he worked as an IT specialist on Wall Street. In 2012, the company began shipping to Canada. That October, Pure Indian Foods won two awards at the American Herbalist Guild Symposium. The Whole Earth Center was the first store to carry the company’s ghee. In March 2015, the company created Coffee++, a MCT oil and grass-fed ghee product to make oiled coffee.\n\nPure Indian Foods is based in Princeton Junction, New Jersey. The company uses cream from free-ranging dairy herds in New Jersey for their products. Additionally, Pure Indian Foods uses non-homogenized milk in the spring and fall when grass grows rapidly to give its products a high amount of fat-soluble vitamins and Conjugated Linoleic Acid (CLA). Pure Indian Foods produces ghee, butter with the milk solids and water removed, in multiple variations including digestive, garlic, herbes de provence, Indian dessert, Italian and Niter Kebbeh.\n"}
{"id": "22152956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22152956", "title": "Severity of Alcohol Dependence Questionnaire", "text": "Severity of Alcohol Dependence Questionnaire\n\nThe Severity of Alcohol Dependence Questionnaire (SADQ or SAD-Q) is a 20 item clinical screening tool designed to measure the presence and level of alcohol dependence. \n\nIt is divided into five sections:\n\nEach item is scored on a 4-point scale, giving a possible range of 0 to 60. A score of over 30 indicates severe alcohol dependence.\n\nSome local clinical guidelines use the SADQ to predict the levels of medication needed during alcohol detoxification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5557694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5557694", "title": "Sialadenitis", "text": "Sialadenitis\n\nSialadenitis (sialoadenitis) is inflammation of a salivary gland. It may be subdivided temporally into acute, chronic and recurrent forms.\n\n\n\n\nIn chronic recurrent sialadenitis or chronic sclerosing sialadenitis, acute attacks are managed with conservative therapies such as hydration, analgesics (mainly NSAIDs), sialogogues to stimulate salivary secretion, and regular, gentle gland massage. If infection is present, appropriate cultures should be obtained, followed by empirical antibiotic therapy initially, for example amoxicillin/clavulanate or clindamycin which cover oral flora.\n\nIf there are attacks more than approximately 3 times per year or severe attacks, surgical excision of the affected gland should be considered.\n\n"}
{"id": "12254052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12254052", "title": "Smoking", "text": "Smoking\n\nSmoking is a practice in which a substance is burned and the resulting smoke breathed in to be tasted and absorbed into the bloodstream. Most commonly the substance is the dried leaves of the tobacco plant which have been rolled into a small square of rice paper to create a small, round cylinder called a \"cigarette\". Smoking is primarily practiced as a route of administration for recreational drug use because the combustion of the dried plant leaves vaporizes and delivers active substances into the lungs where they are rapidly absorbed into the bloodstream and reach bodily tissue. In the case of cigarette smoking these substances are contained in a mixture of aerosol particles and gasses and include the pharmacologically active alkaloid nicotine; the vaporization creates heated aerosol and gas into a form that allows inhalation and deep penetration into the lungs where absorption into the bloodstream of the active substances occurs. In some cultures, smoking is also carried out as a part of various rituals, where participants use it to help induce trance-like states that, they believe, can lead them to spiritual enlightenment.\n\nSmoking generally has negative health effects, because smoke inhalation inherently poses challenges to various physiologic processes such as respiration. Diseases related to tobacco smoking have been shown to kill approximately half of long-term smokers when compared to average mortality rates faced by non-smokers. Smoking caused over five million deaths a year from 1990 to 2015.\n\nSmoking is one of the most common forms of recreational drug use. Tobacco smoking is the most popular form, being practiced by over one billion people globally, of whom the majority are in the developing countries. Less common drugs for smoking include cannabis and opium. Some of the substances are classified as hard narcotics, like heroin, but the use of these is very limited as they are usually not commercially available. Cigarettes are primarily industrially manufactured but also can be hand-rolled from loose tobacco and rolling paper. Other smoking implements include pipes, cigars, bidis, hookahs, and bongs.\n\nSmoking can be dated to as early as 5000 BCE, and has been recorded in many different cultures across the world. Early smoking evolved in association with religious ceremonies; as offerings to deities, in cleansing rituals or to allow shamans and priests to alter their minds for purposes of divination or spiritual enlightenment. After the European exploration and conquest of the Americas, the practice of smoking tobacco quickly spread to the rest of the world. In regions like India and Sub-Saharan Africa, it merged with existing practices of smoking (mostly of cannabis). In Europe, it introduced a new type of social activity and a form of drug intake which previously had been unknown.\n\nPerception surrounding smoking has varied over time and from one place to another: holy and sinful, sophisticated and vulgar, a panacea and deadly health hazard. In the 20th century, smoking came to be viewed in a decidedly negative light, especially in Western countries. This is due to smoking tobacco being among the leading causes of many diseases such as lung cancer, heart attack, COPD, erectile dysfunction, and birth defects. The health hazards of smoking have caused many countries to institute high taxes on tobacco products, run ads to discourage use, limit ads that promote use, and provide help with quitting for those who do smoke.\n\nThe history of smoking dates back to as early as 5000 BCE in shamanistic rituals. Many ancient civilizations, such as the Babylonians, Indians and Chinese, burnt incense as a part of religious rituals, as did the Israelites and the later Catholic and Orthodox Christian churches. Smoking in the Americas probably had its origins in the incense-burning ceremonies of shamans but was later adopted for pleasure, or as a social tool. The smoking of tobacco, as well as various hallucinogenic drugs, was used to achieve trances and to come into contact with the spirit world.\n\nSubstances such as cannabis, clarified butter (ghee), fish offal, dried snake skins and various pastes molded around incense sticks dates back at least 2000 years. Fumigation (\"dhupa\") and fire offerings (\"homa\") are prescribed in the Ayurveda for medical purposes, and have been practiced for at least 3,000 years while smoking, \"dhumrapana\" (literally \"drinking smoke\"), has been practiced for at least 2,000 years. Before modern times these substances have been consumed through pipes, with stems of various lengths or chillums.\n\nCannabis smoking was common in the Middle East before the arrival of tobacco, and was early on a common social activity that centered around the type of water pipe called a hookah. Smoking, especially after the introduction of tobacco, was an essential component of Muslim society and culture and became integrated with important traditions such as weddings, funerals and was expressed in architecture, clothing, literature and poetry.\n\nCannabis smoking was introduced to Sub-Saharan Africa through Ethiopia and the east African coast by either Indian or Arab traders in the 13th century or earlier and spread on the same trade routes as those that carried coffee, which originated in the highlands of Ethiopia. It was smoked in calabash water pipes with terracotta smoking bowls, apparently an Ethiopian invention which was later conveyed to eastern, southern and central Africa.\n\nReports from the first European explorers and conquistadors to reach the Americas tell of rituals where native priests smoked themselves into such high degrees of intoxication that it is unlikely that the rituals were limited to just tobacco.\n\nIn 1612, six years after the settlement of Jamestown, John Rolfe was credited as the first settler to successfully raise tobacco as a cash crop. The demand quickly grew as tobacco, referred to as \"golden weed\", revived the Virginia Company from its failed gold expeditions. In order to meet demands from the old world, tobacco was grown in succession, quickly depleting the land. This became a motivator to settle west into the unknown continent, and likewise an expansion of tobacco production. Indentured servitude became the primary labor force up until Bacon's Rebellion, from which the focus turned to slavery. This trend abated following the American Revolution as slavery became regarded as unprofitable. However the practice was revived in 1794 with the invention of the cotton gin.\n\nA Frenchman named Jean Nicot (from whose name the word nicotine is derived) introduced tobacco to France in 1560. From France tobacco spread to England. The first report documents an English sailor in Bristol in 1556, seen \"emitting smoke from his nostrils\". Like tea, coffee and opium, tobacco was just one of many intoxicants that was originally used as a form of medicine. Tobacco was introduced around 1600 by French merchants in what today is modern-day The Gambia and Senegal. At the same time caravans from Morocco brought tobacco to the areas around Timbuktu and the Portuguese brought the commodity (and the plant) to southern Africa, establishing the popularity of tobacco throughout all of Africa by the 1650s.\n\nSoon after its introduction to the Old World, tobacco came under frequent criticism from state and religious leaders. Murad IV, sultan of the Ottoman Empire 1623-40 was among the first to attempt a smoking ban by claiming it was a threat to public morality and health. The Chongzhen Emperor of China issued an edict banning smoking two years before his death and the overthrow of the Ming dynasty. Later, the Manchu rulers of the Qing dynasty, would proclaim smoking \"a more heinous crime than that even of neglecting archery\". In Edo period Japan, some of the earliest tobacco plantations were scorned by the \"shōgun\" as being a threat to the military economy by letting valuable farmland go to waste for the use of a recreational drug instead of being used to plant food crops.\n\nReligious leaders have often been prominent among those who considered smoking immoral or outright blasphemous. In 1634 the Patriarch of Moscow and all Rus' forbade the sale of tobacco and sentenced men and women who flouted the ban to have their nostrils slit and their backs whipped until skin came off their backs. The Western church leader Pope Urban VII likewise condemned smoking in a papal bull of 1590. Despite many concerted efforts, restrictions and bans were almost universally ignored. When James VI and I, a staunch anti-smoker and the author of \"A Counterblaste to Tobacco\", tried to curb the new trend by enforcing a whopping 4000% tax increase on tobacco in 1604, it proved a failure, as London had some 7,000 tobacco sellers by the early 17th century. Later, scrupulous rulers would realise the futility of smoking bans and instead turned tobacco trade and cultivation into lucrative government monopolies.\n\nBy the mid-17th century every major civilization had been introduced to tobacco smoking and in many cases had already assimilated it into its culture, despite the attempts of many rulers to stamp the practice out with harsh penalties or fines. Tobacco, both product, and plant followed the major trade routes to major ports and markets, and then on into the hinterlands. The English language term \"smoking\" was coined in the late 18th century; before then the practice was referred to as \"drinking smoke\".\n\nTobacco and cannabis were used in Sub-Saharan Africa, much like elsewhere in the world, to confirm social relations, but also created entirely new ones. In what is today Congo, a society called Bena Diemba (\"People of Cannabis\") was organized in the late 19th century in Lubuko (\"The Land of Friendship\"). The Bena Diemba were collectivist pacifists that rejected alcohol and herbal medicines in favor of cannabis.\n\nThe growth remained stable until the American Civil War in the 1860s, from which the primary labor force transition from slavery to sharecropping. This compounded with a change in demand, lead to the industrialization of tobacco production with the cigarette. James Albert Bonsack, a craftsman, in 1881 produced a machine to speed the production of cigarettes.\n\nIn the 19th century, the practice of smoking opium became common. Previously it had only been eaten, and then primarily for its medical properties. A massive increase in opium smoking in China was more or less directly instigated by the British trade deficit with Qing dynasty China. As a way to amend this problem, the British began exporting large amounts of opium grown in the Indian colonies. The social problems and the large net loss of currency led to several Chinese attempts to stop the imports which eventually culminated in the First and Second Opium Wars.\n\nOpium smoking later spread with Chinese immigrants and spawned many infamous opium dens in Chinatowns around South and Southeast Asia and Europe. In the latter half of the 19th century, opium smoking became popular in the artistic community in Europe, especially Paris; artists' neighborhoods such as Montparnasse and Montmartre became virtual \"opium capitals\". While opium dens that catered primarily to emigrant Chinese continued to exist in Chinatowns around the world, the trend among the European artists largely abated after the outbreak of World War I. The consumption of Opium abated in China during the Cultural Revolution in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nWith the modernization of cigarette production compounded with the increased life expectancies during the 1920s, adverse health effects began to become more prevalent. In Germany, anti-smoking groups, often associated with anti-liquor groups, first published advocacy against the consumption of tobacco in the journal \"Der Tabakgegner\" (The Tobacco Opponent) in 1912 and 1932. In 1929, Fritz Lickint of Dresden, Germany, published a paper containing formal statistical evidence of a lung cancer–tobacco link. During the Great Depression, Adolf Hitler condemned his earlier smoking habit as a waste of money, and later with stronger assertions. This movement was further strengthened with Nazi reproductive policy as women who smoked were viewed as unsuitable to be wives and mothers in a German family.\n\nThe movement in Nazi Germany did reach across enemy lines during the Second World War, as anti-smoking groups quickly lost popular support. By the end of the Second World War, American cigarette manufacturers quickly reentered the German black market. Illegal smuggling of tobacco became prevalent, and leaders of the Nazi anti-smoking campaign were assassinated. As part of the Marshall Plan, the United States shipped free tobacco to Germany; with 24,000 tons in 1948 and 69,000 tons in 1949. Per capita yearly cigarette consumption in post-war Germany steadily rose from 460 in 1950 to 1,523 in 1963. By the end of the 20th century, anti-smoking campaigns in Germany were unable to exceed the effectiveness of the Nazi-era climax in the years 1939–41 and German tobacco health research was described by Robert N. Proctor as \"muted\".\n\nIn the UK and the USA, an increase in lung cancer rates, formerly \"among the rarest forms of disease\", was noted by the 1930s, but its cause remained unknown and even the credibility of this increase was sometimes disputed as late as 1950. For example, in Connecticut, reported age-adjusted incidence rates of lung cancer among males increased 220% between 1935–39 and 1950-54. In the UK, the share of lung cancer among all cancer deaths in men increased from 1.5% in 1920 to 19.7% in 1947. Nevertheless, these increases were questioned as potentially caused by increased reporting and improved methods of diagnosis. Although several carcinogens were already known at the time (for example, benzo[a]pyrene was isolated from coal tar and demonstrated to be a potent carcinogen in 1933), none were known to be contained in adequate quantities in tobacco smoke. Richard Doll in 1950 published research in the British Medical Journal showing a close link between smoking and lung cancer. Four years later, in 1954 the British Doctors Study, a study of some 40 thousand doctors over 20 years, confirmed the link, based on which the government issued advice that smoking and lung cancer rates were related. In 1964 the United States Surgeon General's Report on Smoking and Health demonstrated the relationship between smoking and cancer. Further reports confirmed this link in the 1980s and concluded in 1986 that passive smoking was also harmful.\n\nAs scientific evidence mounted in the 1980s, tobacco companies claimed contributory negligence as the adverse health effects were previously unknown or lacked substantial credibility. Health authorities sided with these claims up until 1998, from which they reversed their position. The Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement, originally between the four largest US tobacco companies and the Attorneys General of 46 states, restricted certain types of tobacco advertisement and required payments for health compensation; which later amounted to the largest civil settlement in United States history.\n\nFrom 1965 to 2006, rates of smoking in the United States have declined from 42% to 20.8%. A significant majority of those who quit were professional, affluent men. Despite this decrease in the prevalence of consumption, the average number of cigarettes consumed per person per day increased from 22 in 1954 to 30 in 1978. This paradoxical event suggests that those who quit smoked less, while those who continued to smoke moved to smoke more light cigarettes. This trend has been paralleled by many industrialized nations as rates have either leveled-off or declined. In the developing countries, however, tobacco consumption continues to rise at 3.4% in 2002. In Africa, smoking is in most areas considered to be modern, and many of the strong adverse opinions that prevail in the West receive much less attention. Today Russia leads as the top consumer of tobacco followed by Indonesia, Laos, Ukraine, Belarus, Greece, Jordan, and China.\n\nAt the global scale, initial ideas of an international convention towards the prevention of tobacco had been initiated in the World Health Assembly (WHA) in 1996. In 1998, along with the successful election of Dr. Gro Harlem Brundtland as the Director-General, the World Health Organization set tobacco control as its leading health concern and has begun a program known as the Tobacco Free Initiative (TFI) in order to reduce rates of consumption in the developing world. However, it was not until 2003 that the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) was accepted in WHA and entered into force in 2005. FCTC marked a milestone as the first international treaty concerning a global health issue that aims to combat tobacco in multiple aspects including tobacco taxes, advertisement, trading, environmental affects, health influences, etc. The birth of this evidence-based and systematic approach has resulted in the reinforcement of tobacco taxes and the implementation of smoke-free laws in 128 countries that led to the decrease of smoking prevalence in developing nations.\n\nIn the early 1980s, organized international drug trafficking grew. However, compounded with overproduction and tighter legal enforcement for the illegal product, drug dealers decided to convert the powder to \"crack\" - a solid, smoke-able form of cocaine, that could be sold in smaller quantities, to more people. This trend abated in the 1990s as increased police action coupled with a robust economy deterred many potential candidates to forfeit or fail to take up the habit.\n\nRecent years shows an increase in the consumption of vaporized heroin, methamphetamine and Phencyclidine (PCP). Along with a smaller number of psychedelic drugs such as DMT, 5-Meo-DMT, and Salvia divinorum.\n\nThe most popular type of substance that is smoked is tobacco. There are many different tobacco cultivars which are made into a wide variety of mixtures and brands. Tobacco is often sold flavored, often with various fruit aromas, something which is especially popular for use with water pipes, such as hookahs. The second most common substance that is smoked is cannabis, made from the flowers or leaves of \"Cannabis sativa\" or \"Cannabis indica\". The substance is considered illegal in most countries in the world and in those countries that tolerate public consumption, it is usually only pseudo-legal. Despite this, a considerable percentage of the adult population in many countries have tried it with smaller minorities doing it on a regular basis. Since cannabis is illegal or only tolerated in most jurisdictions, there is no industrial mass-production of cigarettes, meaning that the most common form of smoking is with hand-rolled cigarettes (often called joints) or with pipes. Water pipes are also fairly common, and when used for cannabis are called bongs.\n\nA few other recreational drugs are smoked by smaller minorities. Most of these substances are controlled, and some are considerably more intoxicating than either tobacco or cannabis. These include crack cocaine, heroin, methamphetamine and PCP. A small number of psychedelic drugs are also smoked, including DMT, 5-Meo-DMT, and Salvia divinorum.\n\nEven the most primitive form of smoking requires tools of some sort to perform. This has resulted in a staggering variety of smoking tools and paraphernalia from all over the world. Whether tobacco, cannabis, opium or herbs, some form of receptacle is required along with a source of fire to light the mixture. The most common today is by far the cigarette, consisting of a mild inhalant strain of tobacco in a tightly rolled tube of paper, usually manufactured industrially and including a filter, or hand-rolled with loose tobacco. Other popular smoking tools are various pipes and cigars.\n\nA less common but increasingly popular alternative to smoking is vaporizers, which use hot air convection to deliver the substance without combustion, which may reduce health risks. A portable vaporization alternative appeared in 2003 with the introduction of electronic cigarettes, battery-operated, cigarette-shaped devices which produce an aerosol intended to mimic the smoke from burning tobacco, delivering nicotine to the user without some of the harmful substances released in tobacco smoke.\n\nOther than actual smoking equipment, many other items are associated with smoking; cigarette cases, cigar boxes, lighters, matchboxes, cigarette holders, cigar holders, ashtrays, silent butlers, pipe cleaners, tobacco cutters, match stands, pipe tampers, cigarette companions and so on. Some examples of these have become valuable collector items and particularly ornate and antique items can fetch high prices.\n\nSmoking is one of the leading causes of preventable death globally. In the United States about 500,000 deaths per year are attributed to smoking-related diseases and a recent study estimated that as much as 1/3 of China's male population will have significantly shortened life-spans due to smoking. Male and female smokers lose an average of 13.2 and 14.5 years of life, respectively. At least half of all lifelong smokers die earlier as a result of smoking. The risk of dying from lung cancer before age 85 is 22.1% for a male smoker and 11.9% for a female current smoker, in the absence of competing causes of death. The corresponding estimates for lifelong nonsmokers are a 1.1% probability of dying from lung cancer before age 85 for a man of European descent, and a 0.8% probability for a woman. Smoking one cigarette a day results in a risk of heart disease that is halfway between that of a smoker and a non-smoker. The non-linear dose response relationship may be explained by smoking's effect on platelet aggregation.\n\nAmong the diseases that can be caused by smoking are vascular stenosis, lung cancer, heart attacks and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Smoking during pregnancy may cause ADHD to a fetus.\n\nSmoking is a risk factor strongly associated with periodontitis and tooth loss. The effects of smoking on periodontal tissues depend on the number of cigarettes smoked daily and the duration of the habit . A study showed that smokers had 2.7 times and former smokers 2.3 times greater probabilities to have established periodontal disease than non‐smokers, independent of age, sex and plaque index, however, the effect of tobacco on periodontal tissues seems to be more pronounced in men than in women. Studies have found that smokers had greater odds for more severe dental bone loss compared to non‐smokers , also , people who smoke and drink alcohol heavily have much higher risk of developing oral cancer (mouth and lip) compared with people who do neither. Smoking can also cause milanosis in the mouth.\n\nSmoking has been also associated with oral conditions including dental caries, dental implant failures, premalignant lesions, and cancer. Smoking can affect the immune-inflammatory processes which may increase the susceptibility to infections; it can alter the oral mycobiota and facilitate colonization of the oral cavity with fungi and pathogenic molds.\n\nMany governments are trying to deter people from smoking with anti-smoking campaigns in mass media stressing the harmful long-term effects of smoking. Passive smoking, or secondhand smoking, which affects people in the immediate vicinity of smokers, is a major reason for the enforcement of smoking bans. This is a law enforced to stop individuals smoking in indoor public places, such as bars, pubs and restaurants. The idea behind this is to discourage smoking by making it more inconvenient, and to stop harmful smoke being present in enclosed public spaces. A common concern among legislators is to discourage smoking among minors and many states have passed laws against selling tobacco products to underage customers (establishing a smoking age). Many developing countries have not adopted anti-smoking policies, leading some to call for anti-smoking campaigns and further education to explain the negative effects of ETS (Environmental Tobacco Smoke) in developing countries. Tobacco advertising is also sometimes regulated to make smoking less appealing.\n\nIn May 2016 the state of California passed legislation raising the smoking age from 18 to 21. This law also includes the sale of electronic cigarettes.\n\nDespite the many bans, European countries still hold 18 of the top 20 spots, and according to the ERC, a market research company, the heaviest smokers are from Greece, averaging 3,000 cigarettes per person in 2007. Rates of smoking have leveled off or declined in the developed world but continue to rise in developing countries. Smoking rates in the United States have dropped by half from 1965 to 2006, falling from 42% to 20.8% in adults.\n\nThe effects of addiction on society vary considerably between different substances that can be smoked and the indirect social problems that they cause, in great part because of the differences in legislation and the enforcement of narcotics legislation around the world. Though nicotine is a highly addictive drug, its effects on cognition are not as intense or noticeable as other drugs such as cocaine, amphetamines or any of the opiates (including heroin and morphine).\n\nSmoking is a risk factor in Alzheimer's disease. While smoking more than 15 cigarettes per day has been shown to worsen the symptoms of Crohn's disease, smoking has been shown to actually lower the prevalence of ulcerative colitis.\n\nInhaling the vaporized gas form of substances into the lungs is a quick and very effective way of delivering drugs into the bloodstream (as the gas diffuses directly into the pulmonary vein, then into the heart and from there to the brain) and affects the user within less than a second of the first inhalation. The lungs consist of several million tiny bulbs called alveoli that altogether have an area of over 70 m² (about the area of a tennis court). This can be used to administer useful medical as well as recreational drugs such as aerosols, consisting of tiny droplets of a medication, or as gas produced by burning plant material with a psychoactive substance or pure forms of the substance itself. Not all drugs can be smoked, for example the sulphate derivative that is most commonly inhaled through the nose, though purer free base forms of substances can, but often require considerable skill in administering the drug properly. The method is also somewhat inefficient since not all of the smoke will be inhaled. The inhaled substances trigger chemical reactions in nerve endings in the brain due to being similar to naturally occurring substances such as endorphins and dopamine, which are associated with sensations of pleasure. The result is what is usually referred to as a \"high\" that ranges between the mild stimulus caused by nicotine to the intense euphoria caused by heroin, cocaine and methamphetamines.\n\nInhaling smoke into the lungs, no matter the substance, has adverse effects on one's health. The incomplete combustion produced by burning plant material, like tobacco or cannabis, produces carbon monoxide, which impairs the ability of blood to carry oxygen when inhaled into the lungs. There are several other toxic compounds in tobacco that constitute serious health hazards to long-term smokers from a whole range of causes; vascular abnormalities such as stenosis, lung cancer, heart attacks, strokes, impotence, low birth weight of infants born by smoking mothers. 8% of long-term smokers develop the characteristic set of facial changes known to doctors as smoker's face.\n\nTobacco smoke is a complex mixture of over 5,000 identified chemicals, of which 98 are known to have specific toxicological properties. The most important chemicals causing cancer are those that produce DNA damage since such damage appears to be the primary underlying cause of cancer. Cunningham et al. combined the microgram weight of the compound in the smoke of one cigarette with the known genotoxic effect per microgram to identify the most carcinogenic compounds in cigarette smoke. The seven most important carcinogens in tobacco smoke are shown in the table, along with DNA alterations they cause. \n\nMost tobacco smokers begin during adolescence or early adulthood. Smoking has elements of risk-taking and rebellion, which often appeal to young people. The presence of high-status models and peers may also encourage smoking. Because teenagers are influenced more by their peers than by adults, attempts by parents, schools, and health professionals at preventing people from trying cigarettes are not always successful.\n\nSmokers often report that cigarettes help relieve feelings of stress. However, the stress levels of adult smokers are slightly higher than those of nonsmokers. Adolescent smokers report increasing levels of stress as they develop regular patterns of smoking, and smoking cessation leads to reduced stress. Far from acting as an aid for mood control, nicotine dependency seems to exacerbate stress. This is confirmed in the daily mood patterns described by smokers, with normal moods during smoking and worsening moods between cigarettes. Thus, the apparent relaxant effect of smoking only reflects the reversal of the tension and irritability that develop during nicotine depletion. Dependent smokers need nicotine to remain feeling normal.\n\nIn the mid-20th century psychologists such as Hans Eysenck developed a personality profile for the typical smoker of that period; extraversion was associated with smoking, and smokers tended to be sociable, impulsive, risk taking, and excitement-seeking individuals. Although personality and social factors may make people likely to smoke, the actual habit is a function of operant conditioning. During the early stages, smoking provides pleasurable sensations (because of its action on the dopamine system) and thus serves as a source of positive reinforcement. After an individual has smoked for many years, the avoidance of withdrawal symptoms and negative reinforcement become the key motivations. Like all addictive substances, the amount of exposure required to become dependent on nicotine can vary from person to person.\n\nEducation and counselling by physicians of children and adolescents has been found to be effective in decreasing the risk of tobacco use. Systematic reviews show that psychosocial interventions can help women stop smoking in late pregnancy, reducing low birthweight and preterm births. A 2016 Cochrane review showed that the combination of medication and behavioural support was more effective than minimal interventions or usual care.\n\nSmoking, primarily of tobacco, is an activity that is practiced by some 1.1 billion people, and up to 1/3 of the adult population. The image of the smoker can vary considerably, but is very often associated, especially in fiction, with individuality and aloofness. Even so, smoking of both tobacco and cannabis can be a social activity which serves as a reinforcement of social structures and is part of the cultural rituals of many and diverse social and ethnic groups. Many smokers begin smoking in social settings and the offering and sharing of a cigarette is often an important rite of initiation or simply a good excuse to start a conversation with strangers in many settings; in bars, night clubs, at work or on the street. Lighting a cigarette is often seen as an effective way of avoiding the appearance of idleness or mere loitering. For adolescents, it can function as a first step out of childhood or as an act of rebellion against the adult world. Also, smoking can be seen as a sort of camaraderie. It has been shown that even opening a packet of cigarettes, or offering a cigarette to other people, can increase the level of dopamine (the \"happy feeling\") in the brain, and it is doubtless that people who smoke form relationships with fellow smokers, in a way that only proliferates the habit, particularly in countries where smoking inside public places has been made illegal. Other than recreational drug use, it can be used to construct identity and a development of self-image by associating it with personal experiences connected with smoking. The rise of the modern anti-smoking movement in the late 19th century did more than create awareness of the hazards of smoking; it provoked reactions of smokers against what was, and often still is, perceived as an assault on personal freedom and has created an identity among smokers as rebels or outcasts, apart from non-smokers:\n\nThe importance of tobacco to soldiers was early on recognized as something that could not be ignored by commanders. By the 17th century allowances of tobacco were a standard part of the naval rations of many nations and by World War I cigarette manufacturers and governments collaborated in securing tobacco and cigarette allowances to soldiers in the field. It was asserted that regular use of tobacco while under duress would not only calm the soldiers but allow them to withstand greater hardship. Until the mid-20th century, the majority of the adult population in many Western nations were smokers and the claims of anti-smoking activists were met with much skepticism, if not outright contempt. Today the movement has considerably more weight and evidence of its claims, but a considerable proportion of the population remains steadfast smokers.\n\nSmoking has been accepted into culture, in various art forms, and has developed many distinct, and often conflicting or mutually exclusive, meanings depending on time, place and the practitioners of smoking. Pipe smoking, until recently one of the most common forms of smoking, is today often associated with solemn contemplation, old age and is often considered quaint and archaic. Cigarette smoking, which did not begin to become widespread until the late 19th century, has more associations of modernity and the faster pace of the industrialized world. Cigars have been, and still are, associated with masculinity, power and is an iconic image associated with the stereotypical capitalist. In fact, some evidence suggests that men with higher than average testosterone levels are more likely to smoke. Smoking in public has for a long time been something reserved for men and when done by women has been associated with promiscuity. In Japan during the Edo period, prostitutes and their clients would often approach one another under the guise of offering a smoke; the same was true for 19th-century Europe.\n\nThe earliest depictions of smoking can be found on Classical Mayan pottery from around the 9th century. The art was primarily religious in nature and depicted deities or rulers smoking early forms of cigarettes. Soon after smoking was introduced outside of the Americas it began appearing in painting in Europe and Asia. The painters of the Dutch Golden Age were among the first to paint portraits of people smoking and still lifes of pipes and tobacco. For southern European painters of the 17th century, a pipe was much too modern to include in the preferred motifs inspired by mythology from Greek and Roman antiquity. At first smoking was considered lowly and was associated with peasants. Many early paintings were of scenes set in taverns or brothels. Later, as the Dutch Republic rose to considerable power and wealth, smoking became more common amongst the affluent and portraits of elegant gentlemen tastefully raising a pipe appeared. Smoking represented pleasure, transience and the briefness of earthly life as it, quite literally, went up in smoke. Smoking was also associated with representations of both the sense of smell and that of taste.\n\nIn the 18th century smoking became far more sparse in painting as the elegant practice of taking snuff became popular. Smoking a pipe was again relegated to portraits of lowly commoners and country folk and the refined sniffing of shredded tobacco followed by sneezing was rare in art. When smoking appeared it was often in the exotic portraits influenced by Orientalism. Many proponents of postcolonialism controversially believe this portrayal was a means of projecting an image of European superiority over its colonies and a perception of the male dominance of a feminized Orient. Proponents believe the theme of the exotic and alien \"Other\" escalated in the 19th century, fueled by the rise in the popularity of ethnology during the Enlightenment.\n\nIn the 19th century smoking was common as a symbol of simple pleasures; the pipe smoking \"noble savage\", solemn contemplation by Classical Roman ruins, scenes of an artists becoming one with nature while slowly toking a pipe. The newly empowered middle class also found a new dimension of smoking as a harmless pleasure enjoyed in smoking saloons and libraries. Smoking a cigarette or a cigar would also become associated with the bohemian, someone who shunned the conservative middle class values and displayed his contempt for conservatism. But this was a pleasure that was to be confined to a male world; women smokers were associated with prostitution and smoking was not considered an activity fit for proper ladies. It was not until the start of the 20th century that smoking women would appear in paintings and photos, giving a chic and charming impression. Impressionists like Vincent van Gogh, who was a pipe smoker himself, would also begin to associate smoking with gloom and \"fin-du-siècle\" fatalism.\n\nWhile the symbolism of the cigarette, pipe and cigar respectively were consolidated in the late 19th century, it was not until the 20th century that artists began to use it fully; a pipe would stand for thoughtfulness and calm; the cigarette symbolized modernity, strength and youth, but also nervous anxiety; the cigar was a sign of authority, wealth and power. The decades following World War II, during the apex of smoking when the practice had still not come under fire by the growing anti-smoking movement, a cigarette casually tucked between the lips represented the young rebel, epitomized in actors like Marlon Brando and James Dean or mainstays of advertising like the Marlboro Man. It was not until the 1970s when the negative aspects of smoking began to appear, yielding the image of the unhealthy lower-class individual, reeking of cigarette smoke and lack of motivation and drive, which was especially prominent in art inspired or commissioned by anti-smoking campaigns. In his painting \"Holy Smokes\", artist Brian Whelan pokes fun at the smoking debate and its newly found focus on morality and guilt.\n\nEver since the era of silent films, smoking has had a major part in film symbolism. In the hard-boiled \"film noir\" crime thrillers, cigarette smoke often frames characters and is frequently used to add an aura of mystique or nihilism. One of the forerunners of this symbolism can be seen in Fritz Lang's Weimar era \"Dr Mabuse, der Spieler\", 1922 (\"Dr Mabuse, the Gambler\"), where men mesmerized by card playing smoke cigarettes while gambling.\n\nFemale smokers in film were also early on associated with a type of sensuous and seductive sexuality, most notably personified by German film star Marlene Dietrich. Similarly, actors like Humphrey Bogart and Audrey Hepburn have been closely identified with their smoker persona, and some of their most famous portraits and roles have involved them being haloed by a mist of cigarette smoke. Hepburn often enhanced the glamor with a cigarette holder, most notably in the film \"Breakfast at Tiffany's\". Smoking could also be used as a means to subvert censorship, as two cigarettes burning unattended in an ashtray were often used to suggest sexual activity.\n\nSince World War II, smoking has gradually become less frequent on screen as the obvious health hazards of smoking have become more widely known. With the anti-smoking movement gaining greater respect and influence, conscious attempts not to show smoking on screen are now undertaken in order to avoid encouraging smoking or giving it positive associations, particularly for family films. Smoking on screen is more common today among characters who are portrayed as anti-social or even criminal.\n\nJust as in other types of fiction, smoking has had an important place in literature and smokers are often portrayed as characters with great individuality, or outright eccentrics, something typically personified in one of the most iconic smoking literary figures of all, Sherlock Holmes. Other than being a frequent part of short stories and novels, smoking has spawned endless eulogies, praising its qualities and affirming the author's identity as a devoted smoker. Especially during the late 19th century and early 20th century, a panoply of books with titles like \"Tobacco: Its History and associations\" (1876), \"Cigarettes in Fact and Fancy\" (1906) and \"Pipe and Pouch: The Smokers Own Book of Poetry\" (1905) were written in the UK and the US. The titles were written by men for other men and contained general tidbits and poetic musings about the love for tobacco and all things related to it, and frequently praised the refined bachelor's life. \"The Fragrant Weed: Some of the Good Things Which Have been Said or Sung about Tobacco\", published in 1907, contained, among many others, the following lines from the poem \"A Bachelor's Views\" by Tom Hall that were typical of the attitude of many of the books:\n\nThese works were all published in an era before the cigarette had become the dominant form of tobacco consumption and pipes, cigars, and chewing tobacco were still commonplace. Many of the books were published in novel packaging that would attract the learned smoking gentleman. \"Pipe and Pouch\" came in a leather bag resembling a tobacco pouch and \"Cigarettes in Fact and Fancy\" (1901) came bound in leather, packaged in an imitation cardboard cigar box. By the late 1920s, the publication of this type of literature largely abated and was only sporadically revived in the later 20th century.\n\nThere have been few examples of tobacco in music in early modern times, though there are occasional signs of influence in pieces such as Johann Sebastian Bach's \"Enlightening Thoughts of a Tobacco-Smoker\". However, from the early 20th century and onwards smoking has been closely associated with popular music. Jazz was from early on closely intertwined with the smoking that was practiced in the venues where it was played, such as bars, dance halls, jazz clubs and even brothels. The rise of jazz coincided with the expansion of the modern tobacco industry, and in the United States also contributed to the spread of cannabis. The latter went under names like \"tea\", \"muggles\" and \"reefer\" in the jazz community and was so influential in the 1920s and 30s that it found its way into songs composed at the time such as Louis Armstrong's \"Muggles\" Larry Adler's \"Smoking Reefers\" and Don Redman's \"Chant of The Weed\". The popularity of marijuana among jazz musicians remained high until the 1940s and 50s, when it was partially replaced by the use of heroin.\n\nAnother form of modern popular music that has been closely associated with cannabis smoking is reggae, a style of music that originated in Jamaica in the late 1950s and early 60s. Cannabis, or \"ganja\", is believed to have been introduced to Jamaica in the mid-19th century by Indian immigrant labor and was primarily associated with Indian workers until it was appropriated by the Rastafari movement in the middle of the 20th century. The Rastafari considered cannabis smoking to be a way to come closer to God, or Jah, an association that was greatly popularized by reggae icons such as Bob Marley and Peter Tosh in the 1960s and 70s.\n\nEstimates claim that smokers cost the U.S. economy $97.6 billion a year in lost productivity and that an additional $96.7 billion is spent on public and private health care combined. This is over 1% of the gross domestic product. A male smoker in the United States that smokes more than one pack a day can expect an average increase of $19,000 just in medical expenses over the course of his lifetime. A U.S. female smoker that also smokes more than a pack a day can expect an average of $25,800 additional healthcare costs over her lifetime.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25910814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25910814", "title": "Sopona", "text": "Sopona\n\nSopona (or Shapona) is the god of smallpox in the Yoruba religion. Shapona was exported to the New World in the slave trade, where he has become known as Babalú-Ayé, among many other names, in the Orisha religion.\n\nWithin the traditional religion of the Yoruba people of Nigeria it is believed that smallpox was a disease foisted upon humans due to Shapona’s “divine displeasure”, and formal worship of the god of Smallpox was highly controlled by specific priests in charge of shrines to the god. Prior to the early 20th century people of this religion believed that if the priests were angered they were capable of causing smallpox outbreaks through their intimate relationship with Shapona. The name \"Sapona\" (alt. Shapona, Saponna, etc.) is considered a secret and taboo name, not to be spoken aloud in respect for the power of the Lord of Infectious Disease. For this reason, the deity has a number of other names and titles which have been in use since the pre-modern period, such as Omolu.\n\nSapona is the traditional, sacred and protected name of the Orisha popularly known as Babalú-Ayé or Omolu. Speaking his true name is avoided so as to not invoke the power of disease.\n\nDr. Oguntola Sapara suspected that the priests were deliberately spreading the disease, and surreptitiously joined the cult. He discovered that the priests were causing the disease through applying scrapings of the skin rash of smallpox cases. Based on this information, the British colonial rulers banned the worship of Shapona in 1907. Worship continues, however, with the faithful paying homage to the god even after such activities were prohibited.\n\nIn Dahomean religion Sopono is known as \"Sakpata\", \"Shakpana\" or similarly \"Sopono\". He is the divinity of smallpox and can inflicted insanity and disease on humans.\n\nSopona is known in the Afro-Brazilian tradition of Candomblé as \"Sakpata\" or \"Sakpata-Omolu\" in the (Jejé nation). He is associated with the colors red, black, and white, as in Africa. Insects associated with him are Sakpata-Omolu beetles, black butterflies, flies, and mosquitoes. A skirt and hood made of straw that covers the entire body is the clothing associated with Sakpata-Omolu followers and worship. In the Jejé tradition Kpo and Loko are also associated with straw clothing. The xaxará, a broom with palm or straw bristles, is used in Sakpata-Omolu rituals. Small gourds, white cowry shells, a black necklace (laguidibá) are all clothing associated with Sakpata-Omolu. He is seen to have both the power to inflict and cure skin disease and other contagious diseases. In present times this includes HIV/AIDS.\n\nIn the Trinidad Orisha tradition Sopona is known as \"Shakpana\", and is similarly a ferocious god associated with healing smallpox. In a survey of Orisha shrines on Trinidad James Houk found that flags to Ogun are found in almost every location; those to Shakpana and Osain (Osanyin) closely follow in popularity.\n\n"}
{"id": "57485118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57485118", "title": "Thoothukudi massacre", "text": "Thoothukudi massacre\n\nThe Thoothukudi massacre (also known as the Thoothukudi mass murder, Tuticorin massacre or Sterlite Protest Firing) took place on 22 May 2018 in Thoothukudi district, Tamil Nadu, India, When Tamil Nadu Police forces, some of them not wearing uniforms, fired into a crowd of 20,000 people. The crowd had gathered to protest environmental pollution caused by a Sterlite Copper factory.\n\nSporadic protests have occurred in Thoothukudi district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu since 1999, directed against the Sterlite Copper smelting works. The factory is owned by Vedanta Limited, a subsidiary of Vedanta Resources. Protestors oppose soil, water and air contamination caused by the factory. An epidemiological study carried out by Tirunelveli Medical College in 2006–07 had found increased prevalence of respiratory diseases and ear, nose and throat (ENT) morbidity in the 5 km radius of Sterlite Industries. Their report blamed this on air pollution caused by the industry and automobiles – such as trucks and heavy vehicles – plying in this area.\n\nWater in the area of the plant has been found to be 17–20 times the allowable limit, causing additional health problems for the population already experiencing higher than average incidence of respiratory diseases. The plant is less than 15 Km from the Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve. More than 2.5 lakh (250,000) people live in the vicinity of the plant.\n\nThe Sterlite factorty made headlines in 2013 when a gas leak led to the death of one person and injured several others. The plant was blamed for health issues observed in the area related to gas leakage. Following a gas leak in March 2013, the then chief minister, the late J Jayalalithaa, ordered its closure. The company appealed to the National Green Tribunal, which overturned the government order. The state moved the Supreme Court against it, where the petition was still pending. The plant closed on March 27 of 2018, with the company citing a 15-day maintenance process. The Supreme Court ordered the company to pay a 100-crore fine and the factory was temporarily shutdown by the pollution regulator.\n\nAfter Sterlite announced its plans to expand the plant, people around Kumarettiyapuram village protested for more than 100 days. A major protest had been conducted peacefully till March 29, 2018.\n\nOn May 22, 2018, thousands of people began to march to the district collector's office to submit a petition. An official release said 20,000 people took out a procession towards the district collectorate and the copper plant. The police resorted to lathi charges against the protesters, some of whom allegedly started throwing stones at the collectorate. Non-uniformed police started to shoot at the unarmed protesters using assault rifles, and police opened fire from over the top of Vehicles using SLR Rifles. Thirteen protesters were killed including a 17-year old law student, and dozens were injured.\n\nFIRs filed in local police stations claimed that the order to shoot was issued by officers in the rank of deputy tahsildars. Some people pointed out that only Collectors have the authority to issue shooting orders.\n\nThe Tamil Nadu government ordered a shutdown of Internet in the entire district of Tuticorin for five days after the massacre.\n\n\nActor and politician Rajinikanth received criticism for his statement on Thoothukudi massacre who went to receive negative responses from Tamilians for his comments on the protests. He said \"anti-social elements\" in the crowd had to be \"dealt with an iron hand\" and also stated that Tamil Nadu will become a graveyard if the people of the state continue to protest. Also, his anger reaction on media was criticized and his statements were brought negative impact on social media. Following his controversial statements regarding the Thoothukudi shooting scandal, the Tamil activist groups in Norway and Switzerland banned the release of Rajinikanth's \"Kaala\" in Norway and Switzerland by the scheduled world wide release date as of 7 June. The Tamil diaspora groups in Norway and Switzerland announced that they would not release the films of actors in the future who deliberately hurt the feelings and attitudes of Tamil people following the comments from Rajinikanth on Tamils. However, the ban was later on lifted and the film was released with a week delay resp. a day before the scheduled worldwide release in Switzerland and Norway, respectively.\n\nOn 28 May 2018, the Sterlite factory was sealed by an order of the Tamil Nadu Environmental pollutions and Forests Department. The next day, Tamil Nadu's State Industries Promotion Corporation (SIPCOT) announced that it would take back 342.22 acres of land that it had given for expansion of the facility. Many leaders including M.K.Stalin, Seeman and Anbumani Ramadoss criticised the sealing order, saying that it would not stand up to legal scrutiny since the government had given no reason for shutting down the factory.\n\n"}
{"id": "50709971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50709971", "title": "Transgender HIV/AIDS Prevention Program", "text": "Transgender HIV/AIDS Prevention Program\n\nThe Transgender HIV/Aids Prevention Program was launched by The Department of Family Practice and The Community Health Medical School at the University of Minnesota in 1992. The program targeted the local transgender community. It was estimated that in 1992 up to 17,000 people were HIV-antibody positive in the state of Minnesota. The organizers realized that there was a lack of knowledge and attitudinal barriers towards HIV prevention among transvestites and transsexuals. This knowledge deficit among the transgender community coupled with the steadily increasing number of people affected with HIV/Aids at the time catalyzed the formation of the Transgender HIV Aids Prevention Program at the University of Minnesota.\n\nThe program was designed to be a potential suitable model for other communities to copy when targeting the transgender community and HIV/AIDS prevention. It aimed to demonstrate effective ways to reach the transgender population and change behaviours/attitudes that formed risk factors for HIV infection. The program had 3 main objectives; 1) Alter the way in which the transgender community behaved and understood the issue of HIV transmission and prevention; 2) Develop and implement an effective pilot program to realize the first objective; and 3) to evaluate the success or failure of the pilot program, specifically in terms of increasing the knowledge about HIV transmission/protection and changing the negative attitudes and behaviours putting the transgender community at risk.\n\nIn June 1992, organizers of the program formed a core focus group, developing advertisements and short articles in order to promote participation of the workshops. The three workshops were held in September and November 1992 and February 1993 respectively. The workshops consisted of a panel of transgender people living with HIV/AIDS and the focus of the workshops was the impact of HIV/AIDS and what could be done in order to prevent the spread of the virus. Specifically, organizers had a focus on eroticizing safer sex and risk reduction strategies relating to the use of needles when injecting hormones and/or silicone. There were a total of 126 registrants of the program. Out of these 126 registrants, 86 participated in the workshops. 74 of these 86 participants participated in the study.\n\nIn May 1993, the examination and findings of these three workshops were concluded with the submission for publication of the “Transgender HIV/AIDS Prevention Program Manual.” This manual is currently located at the Transgender Archives at the University of Victoria\n\nThe findings of the questionnaires done before, during, and two months after the workshop revealed that the workshops were successful, as there was an increase in relevant knowledge towards HIV/AIDS prevention among the Transgender population. There was an initial increase in positive attitudes among participants, however over time this diminished. The evaluation showed an improvement of community and social support for participants because of the program. The questionnaires failed to show that there was a decrease in unsafe sexual and needle practices.\n\nThe focus group evaluation unveiled the issues of understanding HIV/AIDS in the transgender community. The evaluation showed that there was an increase in awareness and personal significance which encouraged personal protection. It also brought to light that the risk for HIV/AIDS was behaviour based rather than based on an individual's sexual partner or orientation. It also exposed personal vulnerabilities which allowed people to develop personal prevention plans to change their risk behaviours.\n\nFindings of the program brought new methods to better education prevention methods. The major method was to have stronger community involvement in the transgender community; specifically targeting “drag queens//female impersonators, transgender hustlers, prostitutes, and post-sex-reassigned transsexuals.” Another method was to integrate HIV/AIDS prevention into education regarding sex, gender and sexuality. Furthermore, another method that was suggested in order to minimize the rate of infection was to create brochures specifically for transgender HIV/AIDS prevention. Lastly, the program found it very important to make health professionals aware of the issue of HIV/AIDS within the transgender community and the specific emotional and social aspects that greatly target this minority population in the process.\n\nResults from the program unveiled multiple issues, concerns, solutions and new found knowledge of transgender people living with HIV/AIDS. There were three main concerns regarding HIV/AIDS within the transgender community at this time. The first concern was HIV/AIDS equating to stigmatization and shame. As one of the registrants said, the stigma that existed during this time made the participant feel “dirty… [and like]...a lower minority than most minorities” (19). Another concern was that HIV/AIDS would interfere with individuals seeking sexreassignment surgery. The final concern was that health professionals lacked transgender sensitivity.\n\nThe first part of the workshop focused on the impact of HIV/AIDS, and included a panel of transgender persons living with HIV/AIDS. The second part focused on eroticizing safer sex and risk reduction in the use of injection paraphernalia. Sharing needs to inject hormones or silicone was addressed as a special risk. The final part of the workshop focused on personal and community empowerment.\n"}
{"id": "13666200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13666200", "title": "United States v. Binion", "text": "United States v. Binion\n\nUnited States v. Binion, 132 F. App'x 89 (8th Cir. 2005), is a case in which the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit applied two recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions, \"United States v. Booker\" and \"United States v. Fanfan\", in uphelding the sentencing decision by the trial court, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.\n\nDammeon Binion was arrested for possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. Representing himself, the defendant filed a \"pro se\" motion for a competence-to-stand-trial evaluation in which psychological tests were administered by a psychologist under the supervision of a psychiatrist who integrated the results and reported them to the court. Based on the test results and the discrepancy between these results and the defendant's observed behavior, the psychiatrist concluded that the defendant was most likely feigning mental illness and had no mental disorder. He further stated that the defendant's malingering was a \"form of recreation rather than a design to accomplish secondary material gain\".\n\nThe defendant pleaded guilty to the offense. However, because of his reported malingering, he was also charged with obstruction of justice, which added two points to the sentencing recommendations. The court stated that because of the feigned illness, the defendant was not accepting responsibility for his behavior as is normally required in a plea of guilty, and the normal reduction in sentence for a guilty plea was therefore waived. The defendant was sentenced according to the guidelines recommended by the pre-sentence investigation.\n\nThe defendant appealed his sentence on three grounds. First he claimed that by increasing his sentence by adding the charge of obstruction of justice, related to his feigning mental illness, the trial court had violated \"United States v. Booker\" (2005). In this case, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the Sixth Amendment required the determination beyond a reasonable doubt of the validity of any fact that increased the sentence of a defendant in a federal criminal case over the highest level of the range as set forth by the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. Second, although acknowledging the feigned mental illness, the defendant stated he did so to amuse himself and without specific intent to obstruct justice, and that therefore the court erred in so charging him and enhancing his sentence accordingly. Third, he argued that because the trial court did not view the defendant as accepting responsibility for his offense even though he pleaded guilty, the court had erred in failing to reduce the defendant's sentence as part of the guilty plea.\n\nThe U.S. Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the district court on each of the three grounds raised. \"Booker\" was followed in allowing judicial discretion in applying the sentencing guidelines. Thus, the enhancement for obstruction of justice for feigning mental illness on his competency evaluation, adding two points to the sentencing recommendations, was upheld, as was the ruling that because of the feigned illness, the defendant was not accepting responsibility for his behavior for the purposes of a guilty plea, and therefore no reduction in sentence was appropriate. The defendant's sentence, as determined by the trial judge's discretion, was upheld.\n\nThe case is significant because of the issues it raises if a legal decision is based on the testimony of mental health professionals, by means of forensic psychology. First, it points to a difficult issue in competency evaluations. Although the standards for competency were set forth in \"Dusky v. United States\", much of the standard remains ambiguous and is not clearly defined. Only one common principle is clear in forensic evaluations, that forensic evaluators cannot reach a finding independent of the facts of the case at hand. \n\nSecond, many practitioners feel strongly that forensic evaluators should restrict themselves to behavioral observations and describing test results only, and avoid making statements on legal questions as transpired in this case. This case makes it all the more important that the forensic evaluator clarify to the defendant that any information obtained will not be kept confidential, since the defendant has no control over how this information will be used. \n\nThird, the issue of malingering is particularly problematic as there is no ultimate test, and such diagnoses boil down to clinical decisions. An extensive review of the literature by Melton \"et al.\" did not reveal any studies in which clinicians using various combinations of testing procedures and interviews demonstrated any \"extraordinary ability\" to detect malingering.\n\n"}
{"id": "56924271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56924271", "title": "University of Botswana School of Medicine", "text": "University of Botswana School of Medicine\n\nThe University of Botswana School of Medicine (UBSOM), also known as the University of Botswana Medical School, is the school of medicine of the University of Botswana, Botswana's oldest and largest public university. The medical school was established in 2009. The school provides medical education at undergraduate, and postgraduate levels.\n\nThe school is located on the main campus of the University of Botswana, in the central business district of Gaborone, the largest city and capital of Botswana. The coordinates of the campus of the University of Botswana Medical School are: 24°39'52.0\"S, 25°55'49.0\"E (Latitude:-24.664444; Longitude:25.930278). The current medical school campus was established in 2012.\n\nThe medical school maintains a teaching hospital, approximately , by road, north-east of the main campus. The 450-bed state-of-the-art hospital was established in 2014.\n\n, UBMS maintained the following departments:\n\n\nThe following undergraduate courses were offered as of March 2018.\n\nA postgraduate degree of Master of Medicine (MMed) is awarded following following three or more years of instruction and examination in any of the following specialties:\n\nThe pioneer class of undergraduates, numbering 36, were admitted in 2009 and graduated in 2014. As of May 2014, the school had a total population of 87 academic and 301 medical students, of whom 230 were undergraduates and 71 were postgraduates. At that time, the areas of postgraduate study included (a) Public Health (b) Internal Medicine (c) Family Medicine and (d) Pediatrics and Adolescent Health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25293380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25293380", "title": "ViroStatics", "text": "ViroStatics\n\nViroStatics srl is dedicated to develop drugs to overcome the underlying cellular perturbations common to cancer and viral diseases - dysregulation of cellular transcription and uncontrolled cell proliferation. To this end, ViroStatics has focused on selectively targeting the Cyclin Dependent Kinases (CDKs) involved in these perturbations (CDK9 and CDK4/6).\n\nViroStatics was formed In 2007 as a for-profit spin-off from the Research Institute for Human and Genetic Therapy (RIGHT), a US-based 501(c)3 corporation pursuing innovative antiviral therapies and vaccine research. Led by CEO Franco Lori, MD, PhD, ViroStatics has its corporate headquarters in Sassari (Sardinia) Italy, R&D laboratories in the Science and Technology Park of Sardinia (Sardegna Ricerche) in Alghero (Sardinia) and Business Development offices in North America.\n\nViroStatics has discovered and is developing novel, highly potent inhibitors, which selectively target CDK4/6/9 in a single molecule for a multifaceted approach for the durable treatment of cancers and viral diseases.\n\nThe Company has developed a robust pipeline of proprietary compounds, with patent protection beyond 2030, for a number of distinct disease indications.\n\nVIRAL DISEASE PROGRAM: \"ViroStatics’ unique multifaceted compounds offer the potential for a paradigm shift in the treatment of viral diseases\"\n\n\nONOCOLOGY PROGRAM: \"Designed to Address the Unmet Medical Need for Durable Treatment for Cancers\"\n\n"}
{"id": "52352104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52352104", "title": "Wheelchair Cricketers Welfare Association of Bangladesh", "text": "Wheelchair Cricketers Welfare Association of Bangladesh\n\nWheelchair Cricket Welfare Association Bangladesh (WCWAB) is a national level Non-government and Non profitable voluntary organization established for the development of the physically challenged people of Bangladesh. The organization was formed by wheelchair cricketer Mohammad Mohasin.\nThe organization has been working for the disabled people since 2010 aiming to incorporate the persons with disabilities & to strengthen in mainstream society. \nIn 2016, the organization registered under the Social Welfare Department of Govt. people’s republic of Bangladesh. WCWAB have elected management board. The warriors on the wheel chairs started their journey of playing cricket in 2010. Since then, Bangladeshi Wheelchair cricket players have participated in major tournaments like ICRC International Cricket Tournament in Bangladesh and Asia Cup in India.\n\nFirst ever wheelchair cricket tournament in Bangladesh launched in 2016 by Imago Sports Management in association with Wheelchair Cricket Welfare Association Bangladesh. Thirty Six (36) Wheelchair Cricketers (Twenty Five (25) from outside of Dhaka) participated in this daylong tournament. For most of the wheelchair users this was the very first time they participated in a competitive sports match.\n"}
{"id": "50354664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50354664", "title": "William Farquharson (surgeon)", "text": "William Farquharson (surgeon)\n\nDr William Farquharson FRSE PRCSE FRCPE FSAS (1760-1823) was a senior Scottish surgeon during the Scottish Enlightenment.\nHe served as President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh 1806-8 and President of the Harveian Society in both 1796 and 1805.\n\nHe was born in Balfour, Aberdeenshire in 1760 the son of Alexander Farquharson of Balfour (b.1716) and his wife Margaret Davie of Newmill.\n\nIn 1790 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were James Gregory, James Russell and Robert Kerr. \n\nIn 1795 he was a Crown Witness at the trial and imprisonment of Sir Archibald Gordon Kinloch of Gilmerton for the murder of his half-brother Sir Robert Kinloch at Gilmerton House. The trial was judged by Lord Braxfield. Farquharson’s testimony focussed upon Kinloch’s mental state on two previous occasions, each tended by Dr Farquharson (the second being in Haddington jail). As one of the oddest of British judgements, although Kinloch was sentenced to life imprisonment on 15 July, Dr Farquharson offered to hold him securely in his own home rather than in prison, and the judge accepted this on 17 July. His house at this time was at Worlds End Close on the Royal Mile. However, Farquharson disappears from the Post Office Directories for several years; presumably to hold Kinloch in a less urban environment. This was a very considerable personal sacrifice. He rematerialises in Edinburgh following the death of Kinloch in 1800. He then lives at 16 St James Square.\n\nIn 1807 he is noted as donating 5 guineas towards the new Edinburgh Lunatic Asylum.\n\nHis final Edinburgh address was 2 Elder Street in the First New Town.\n\nHe died in Edinburgh on 25 January 1823.\n\nHe was married twice and had two sons: Joseph Canvin Farquharson (who became a banker) and Francis Farquharson of Finzean (1802-1876)\n"}
{"id": "17424255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17424255", "title": "Working in Partnership Programme (WiPP)", "text": "Working in Partnership Programme (WiPP)\n\nWorking in Partnership Programme (WiPP) was launched in England in 2004 under the new General Medical Services (nGMS) contract to support doctors in general practice by providing them with innovative ideas on how to improve services for the public.\n\nThe GMS contract provided the funds, while the initiatives are being implemented by a number of different agencies including Primary Care Trusts as well as non-government organisations in England. The WiPP website provides several resources for this program. The programme has several initiatives.\n\n"}
