{"id": "32847829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32847829", "title": "Canaanean blade", "text": "Canaanean blade\n\nA Canaanean blade is an archaeological term for a long, wide blade made out of stone or flint, predominantly found at sites in Israel and Lebanon (ancient Canaan). They were first manufactured and used in the Neolithic Stone Age to be used as weapons such as javelins or arrowheads. The same technology was used during the later Chalcolithic period in the production of broad sickle blade elements for harvesting of crops. Canaanean blades were also used in the threshing of cereal grains. This indicates the presence of early agricultural technologies. The blades would be attached to a small wooden platform with bitumen. The platform, with a human or other weight standing on it, was then pulled behind an animal across a threshing floor. The forward motion of the animal paired with the downward force of weight exerted through the blades served to cut grain into small pieces.\n"}
{"id": "5648104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5648104", "title": "Chabahil", "text": "Chabahil\n\nChabahil () (also Kathmandu Metropolitan City Ward 07)is an ancient neighbourhood at the northeastern side of the Kathmandu in Nepal. It is famous for its Licchavi stupa, called the Dhando Chaitya considered by many historians to be the oldest Buddhist Stupa in the valley. Currently, Chabahil has become a thriving residential and commercial area of Kathmandu. Apart from the large temples, there are many more small temples around them. Two of the most important temples in Kathmandu, Pashupatinath and Guhyeswari are situated very close to Chabahil. These two temples, dedicated to Lord Shiva and his consort Sati are considered to be more than a thousand years old.\n\nThe stupa has attracted Buddhist monks and other pilgrims over the centuries. According to the inscriptions found within it, it was built by the Indian princess Charumati, daughter of Indian Emperor Ashoka, who was married to a Nepalese prince in Kathmandu. Near the Charumati Vihara, there is a beautiful stone statue of Buddha that is a meter high.\n\nAnother landmark located in the town is the temple of Chandra Binayak Ganesh, the Hindu god with the head of an elephant and the body of a man. which is the youngest son of shiva Hindu god. The temple, located on the main market street of Chabahil, is one of the four temples of Binayak in the Kathmandu Valley. Devotees flock to this century-old temple especially on Tuesdays (and other days when Lord Ganesh is worshiped).\n"}
{"id": "16646139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16646139", "title": "Dash Express", "text": "Dash Express\n\nThe Dash Express was an Internet-enabled personal navigation device manufactured by Dash Navigation Dash Express transmitted information using a GPRS connection back to Dash Navigation in order to enhance traffic routing as well as use wifi for the purpose of updating GPS. At time of its availability, the Dash Express was only available for use in the US.\n\nIn June 2009, Research in Motion has acquired Dash Navigation and discontinued service and support of the Dash Express product effective June 30, 2010.\n\nThe hardware of the dash express was developed by Taiwanese hardware manufacturer FIC (First International Computers), in its Openmoko division. It was developed under the code name \"Dash Cavalier\" with the model number HXD8v2.\n\n"}
{"id": "912643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912643", "title": "Deep-sky object", "text": "Deep-sky object\n\nDeep-sky object (abbreviated as DSO) is a term designating any astronomical object that is not an individual star or Solar System object (such as Sun, Moon, planet, comet, etc.). The classification is used for the most part by amateur astronomers to denote visually observed faint naked eye and telescopic objects such as star clusters, nebulae and galaxies. This distinction is practical and technical, implying a variety of instruments and techniques appropriate to observation, and does not distinguish the nature of the object itself.\n\nClassifying non-stellar astronomical objects began soon after the invention of the telescope. One of the earliest comprehensive lists was Charles Messier's 1774 Messier catalog, which included 103 \"\"nebulae\" and other faint fuzzy objects he considered a nuisance since they could be mistaken for comets, the objects he was actually searching for. As telescopes improved these faint nebulae would be broken into more descriptive scientific classifications such as interstellar clouds, star clusters, and galaxies.\n\n\"Deep-sky object\"\", as an astronomical classification for these objects, has its origins in the modern field of amateur astronomy. The origin of the term is unknown but it was popularized by \"Sky & Telescope\" magazine's \"Deep-Sky Wonders\" column, which premiered in their first edition in 1941, created by Leland S. Copeland, written for the majority of its run by Walter Scott Houston, and currently penned by Sue French. Houston's columns, and later book compilations of those columns, helped popularize the term, each month giving the reader a guided tour of a small part of the sky highlighting well known and lesser known objects for binoculars and small telescopes.\n\nThere are many amateur astronomical techniques and activities associated with deep-sky objects. Some of these objects are bright enough to find and see in binoculars and small telescopes. But the faintest objects need the light-gathering power of telescopes with large objectives, and since they are invisible to the naked eye, can be hard to find. This has led to increased popularity in GoTo telescopes that can find DSOs automatically, and large reflecting telescopes, such as Dobsonian style telescopes, with wide fields of view well suited for such observing. Observing faint objects needs dark skies, so these relatively portable types of telescopes also lend themselves to the majority of amateurs who need to travel outside light polluted urban locations. To cut down light pollution and enhance contrast observers employ \"nebular filters\" designed to admit certain wavelength and block others.\n\nThere are organized activities associated with DSOs such as the Messier marathon which occurs at a specific time each year and involve observers trying to spot all 110 Messier objects in one night. Since the Messier catalog objects were discovered with relatively small 18th century telescopes it is a popular list with observers, being well within the grasp of most modern amateur telescopes. A much more demanding test known as the Herschel 400 is designed to tax larger telescopes and experienced amateur astronomers.\n\nThere are many astronomical object types that come under the description of \"deep-sky objects\". Since the definition is objects that are non-Solar System and non-stellar the list includes:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4215226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4215226", "title": "Dutch Gold Coast", "text": "Dutch Gold Coast\n\nThe Dutch Gold Coast or Dutch Guinea, officially Dutch possessions on the Coast of Guinea (Dutch: \"Nederlandse Bezittingen ter Kuste van Guinea\") was a portion of contemporary Ghana that was gradually colonized by the Dutch, beginning in 1598. The colony became the most important Dutch colony in West Africa after Fort Elmina was captured from the Portuguese in 1637, but fell into disarray after the abolition of the slave trade in the early 19th century. On 6 April 1872, the Dutch Gold Coast was, in accordance with the Anglo-Dutch Treaties of 1870–71, ceremonially ceded to the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Portuguese were the first Europeans to arrive in contemporary Ghana. By 1471, they had reached the area that was to become known as the Gold Coast because it was an important source of gold. The Portuguese trading interests in gold, ivory and pepper so increased that in 1482 the Portuguese built their first permanent trading post on the western coast of present-day Ghana. This fortress, a trade castle called São Jorge da Mina, was constructed to protect Portuguese trade from European competitors.\n\nThe Portuguese position on the Gold Coast, known as Portuguese Gold Coast, remained secure for over a century. During that time, Lisbon sought to monopolize all trade in the region in royal hands, though appointed officials at São Jorge, and used force to prevent English, French and Dutch efforts to trade on the coast. After Barent Eriksz successfully sailed to the Gold Coast in 1591, Dutch merchants began trading in the area. Pieter de Marees's publications greatly increased the interest of merchants in the region.\nThe Twelve Years' Truce between Portugal-Spain and the Dutch Republic, which lasted from 1609 to 1621, disrupted Dutch trade on the Gold Coast, as the Portuguese now had sufficient resources to protect their trade monopoly. Dutch traders then petitioned the States-General of the Dutch Republic to build a fort on the coast. The States-General were receptive of their demands, and sent Jacob Clantius, who was to become the first General on the Coast, to the Gold Coast in 1611. In 1612, after gaining permission of the local rulers through the Treaty of Asebu, he built Fort Nassau near Moree, on the site of an original Dutch trading post that had been burned down by the Portuguese.\n\nAfter the Twelve Years's Truce ended in 1621, the Dutch West India Company was established, which tried to seize the Portuguese colonies in Africa and America as part of the \"Groot Desseyn\" plan. After failing in 1625, the company managed to capture Elmina Castle from the Portuguese in 1637. Fort San Sebastian at Shama and Fort Santo Antonio at Axim followed in 1640 and 1642 respectively.\n\nThe Dutch West India Company was given the monopoly on trade in the West Indies, including the Gold Coast, in 1621. Mismanagement meant that several disillusioned employees of the Dutch West India Company left the company to work for another European power. Hendrik Carloff, for example, was a former high-ranking officer in the company, who joined the Swedish Africa Company, founded in 1649 by the Walloon-Dutch industrialist Louis De Geer. In the end, Carloff also left the Swedish company, this time for the Danish Africa Company, which he founded himself with Isaac Coymans and Nicolaes Pancras, also former Dutch West India Company employees.\n\nWhereas Swedish presence on the Gold Coast turned out to be only temporary, British and Danish settlement in the area proved to be permanent. From 1694 until 1700, the Dutch West India Company fought the Komenda Wars with the British over trade rights with the Eguafo Kingdom. In addition, Brandenburgers also had forts in the area from 1682 onwards, until they were bought out by the Dutch in 1717. The Portuguese had completely left the area, but still the Gold Coast had the highest concentration of European military architecture outside of Europe.\n\nThe European powers were sometimes drawn into conflicts with local inhabitants as Europeans developed commercial alliances with local political authorities. These alliances, often complicated, involved both Europeans attempting to enlist or persuade their closest allies to attack rival European ports and their African allies, or conversely, various African powers seeking to recruit Europeans as mercenaries in their inter-state wars, or as diplomats to resolve conflicts. Another way conflicts with the local inhabitants was avoided was through marriage. European men often created alliances with the local African people through a practice known as cassare or calisare derived from the Portuguese casar meaning \"to marry.\" Dutch men and other Europeans would marry African woman whose families had ties to the Atlantic slave trade. In this way, both Africans and Europeans benefited from each other and allowed for peaceful trading partnerships. African wives could receive money and schooling for the children they bore by European men. Wives could also inherit slaves and property from their husbands when they returned to Europe or died.\n\nMany coastal ethnic groups in Africa, such as the Ga and Fante, used this system to gain political and economic advantages. These African ethnic groups had been using this practice before the arrival of the Europeans with strangers of a different ethnicity, and extended the same privilege to European men by the late 1400s. Cassare enabled Africans to trust strangers, like the Europeans, when dealing within their trade networks. It made the transition between stranger and trade partner a lot smoother.\n\nAt Elmina, the Dutch had inherited from the Portuguese a system in which tribute was paid to the Denkyira, who were the dominant power in the region. After the Battle of Feyiase (1701), the Ashanti Empire replaced the Denkyira as the dominant power, and the Dutch began paying tribute to the Ashanti instead. Although the existence of the so-called \"Elmina Note\" is often questioned, the Dutch generally paid two ounces of gold per month to the Ashanti as tribute. This bond between the Dutch and the Ashanti, who through the port of Elmina had access to trade with the Dutch and the rest of the world, deeply affected the relations between the Dutch, the other local peoples and the British. The latter were increasingly tight with the Fante, to which the Denkyira and thus also Elmina were culturally and linguistically close. Several Ashanti-Fante wars followed and the rivalry between the two peoples were key in the events surrounding the transfer of the Dutch Gold Coast to Britain in 1872.\n\nAfter the Dutch managed to dislodge the Swedes from Butre and began building Fort Batenstein at that site, the leaders of the Dutch West India Company thought it beneficial to negotiate a treaty with the local political leadership in order to establish a peaceful long-term relationship in the area. The local Ahanta leaders found it equally beneficial to enter into such an agreement, and thus on 27 August 1656, the Treaty of Butre was signed. This treaty established a Dutch protectorate in the area, and established diplomatic ties between the Dutch Republic and the Ahanta. The treaty's arrangements proved very stable and regulated Dutch-Ahanta diplomatic affairs for more than 213 years. Only after the Gold Coast was sold to Britain in 1872 were the provisions of the treaty abrogated.\n\nOn 18 February 1782, as part of the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War, the British attacked Elmina. Although this attack failed, Britain seized Fort Nassau, Fort Amsterdam, Fort Lijdzaamheid, Fort Goede Hoop and Fort Crêvecoeur from the Dutch. The Dutch Republic only managed to seize Fort Sekondi from the British. In the Treaty of Paris of 1784, all forts returned to their pre-war owners.\n\nIn 1791, the Dutch West India Company was disestablished, and on 1 January 1792, all territories held by the company reverted to the rule of the States-General of the Dutch Republic. During the French occupation of the Netherlands between 1810 and 1814, the Dutch possessions on the Gold Coast held the rather unusual position—together with the island of Deshima in Japan—of being the only Dutch territories not occupied by either France or Great Britain.\n\nThe British Slave Trade Act of 1807 effectively ended all slave trade from the Gold Coast. William I of the Netherlands took over this abolition when he issued a royal decree to that effect in June 1814 and signed the Anglo-Dutch Slave Trade Treaty in May 1818. The abolition of slave trade was coupled with the arrival of Herman Willem Daendels as Governor-General. Daendels was a Patriot who played a major role in the Batavian Revolution, and subsequently became Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies for the Batavian Republic in 1807. This republican and revolutionist background made him controversial in the Kingdom of the Netherlands established in 1815, which effectively banned him from the country by assigning to him the rather obscure governorship of the Gold Coast in 1815.\n\nDaendels tried to redevelop the rather dilapidated Dutch possessions as an African plantation colony driven by legitimate trade. Drawing on his experience in building the Great Post Road on the island of Java in the Dutch East Indies, he came up with some very ambitious infrastructural projects, including a comprehensive road system, with a main road connecting Elmina and Kumasi in Ashanti. The Dutch government gave him a free hand and a substantial budget to implement his plans. At the same time, however, Daendels regarded his governorship as an opportunity to establish a private business monopoly in the Dutch Gold Coast.\n\nEventually none of the plans came to fruition, as Daendels died of malaria in the castle of St. George d'Elmina, the Dutch seat of government, on 8 May 1818. His body was interred in the central tomb at the Dutch cemetery in Elmina town. He had been in the country less than two years.\n\nIn the remainder of the 19th century, the Dutch Gold Coast slowly fell into disarray. The only substantial development during this period was the recruitment of soldiers for the Dutch East Indies Army. This recruitment of the so-called Belanda Hitam (Indonesian for \"Black Dutchmen\") started in 1831 as an emergency measure as the Dutch army lost thousands of European soldiers and a much larger number of \"native\" soldiers in the Java War (1825–1830), and at the same time saw its own population base diminished by the independence of Belgium (1830). As the Dutch wanted the number of natives in the Dutch East Indies Army to be limited to roughly half the total strength to maintain the loyalty of native forces, the addition of forces from the Gold Coast seemed an ideal opportunity to keep the army at strength and loyal at the same time. It was also hoped that the African soldiers would be more resistant to the tropical climate and tropical diseases of the Dutch East Indies than European soldiers.\n\nIn 1836, the Dutch government had decided to recruit soldiers via the King of Ashanti. Major General Jan Verveer arrived for this purpose in Elmina on 1 November 1836, and went to the Ashanti capital of Kumasi with a delegation of about 900 people. After long negotiations, an agreement with King Kwaku Dua I was reached. A recruitment depot was established in Kumasi, and furthermore the king sent the young Ashanti princes Kwasi Boachi and Kwame Poku with General Verveer to take with him to the Netherlands, so that they could receive a good education. Kwasi Boachi later received education at the forerunner of Delft University and became the first black Dutch mining engineer in the Dutch East Indies. Dutch author Arthur Japin wrote a novel about the life of the two princes with \"The Two Hearts of Kwasi Boachi\" (1997).\n\nWhereas the Dutch forts were a colonial backwater in the 19th century, the British forts were slowly developed into a full colony, especially after Britain took over the Danish Gold Coast in 1850. The presence of Dutch forts in an area that became increasingly influenced by the United Kingdom was deemed undesirable, and in the late 1850s British began pressing for either a buyout of the Dutch forts, or a trade of forts so as to produce more coherent areas of influence.\n\nIn the Dutch political landscape of the time, a buyout was not a possibility, so a trade of forts was negotiated. In 1867, the Convention between Great Britain and the Netherlands for an Interchange of Territory on the Gold Coast of Africa was signed, in which all Dutch forts to the east of Elmina were handed over to Britain, while the British forts west of Elmina were handed over to the Netherlands.\n\nThe trade proved a disaster for the Dutch, as their long-standing alliance with the mighty inland Ashanti Empire did not fare well with the coastal Fante population around the new forts assigned to them, who were allied with the British. To subject the local people around Fort Komenda, the Dutch had to send an expeditionary force to the local capital of Kwassie-Krom. Meanwhile, a Fante Confederacy was founded to drive the Dutch and their Ashanti allies out of Elmina. The confederacy founded an army, which marched to Elmina in March 1868. Although the army was deemed strong enough in April to begin the siege of the town, struggle between the various tribes united in the confederacy meant that the siege was lifted in May. In June, a peace treaty between the confederacy and Elmina was signed, in which Elmina pledged to be neutral if war was to break out between the Ashanti and Fante.\nThe blockade of the town by the confederacy was not lifted, however, and trade between Elmina and the Ashanti dropped to an absolute minimum. Attempts were made to persuade Elmina to join the confederacy, to no avail. Elmina and the Dutch sent a request for help to the king of Ashanti, whose army, under the leadership of Atjempon, arrived in Elmina on 27 December 1869. Unsurprisingly, the Ashanti army had an uncompromising attitude to their Fante rivals, making the prospect of a compromise between the Ashanti-backed Elminese and the new Fante-dominated forts transferred to the Dutch ever more difficult.\n\nMeanwhile, in the Netherlands, the ongoing conflicts made the call for the transfer of the entire colony to Britain to become ever louder. The Dutch governor of Elmina, Cornelis Nagtglas, tried to persuade the Elminese to relinquish their city to the British. This was of course complicated by the presence of an Ashanti army in the town, which even arrested Nagtglas for a short while in April 1871. In February of that year, a treaty had been signed with the United Kingdom, under which terms the whole colony was to be ceded for a sum of 46,939.62 Dutch guilders. On 6 April 1872, after ratification of the treaty by parliament, Elmina was formally handed over to Britain.\n\nAs was to be expected, the Ashanti were less pleased by the handover of Elmina to the Fante-allied British. Ashanti king Kofi Karikari posited that the \"Elmina Note\", which governed the tribute paid by the Dutch to the Ashanti, asserted Ashanti sovereignty over the town. In June 1873, the situation escalated when an Ashanti army marched to Elmina to \"win back\" the town from Britain. The Third Anglo-Ashanti War had started, and Britain began bombing Elmina on 13 June 1873. The old town of Elmina was completely destroyed and leveled to make room for a parade ground.\n\nDuring the reign of the Dutch West India Company, the government of the colony was headed by a Director-General. The Director-General was assisted by a Council composed of senior colonial officers. Aside from being the supreme ruler of the colony, the Director-General was also the supreme commander of the land and sea forces, and highest judicial officer. The Director-General had a double mandate, being installed by both the States-General of the Dutch Republic and the Dutch West India Company. The colonial government was based at Fort Nassau in Moree between 1621 and 1637, and at Fort George in Elmina from 1637 onward.\n\nWhen the Dutch conquered Luanda and São Tomé from the Portuguese in 1642, the Dutch West India Company's possessions on the coast of Africa were divided into two separate commandments. The government at Elmina was charged with the rule over \"Guinea and its dependencies from Cabo Tres Puntas to Cabo Lopes Gonsalves,\" and the government at Luanda with the possessions south of the latter cape, including São Tomé. The title of the Director-General at Elmina was changed to \"Director-General of the North Coast of Africa.\" When the Dutch lost Luanda to the Portuguese in 1648, Sao Tomé was shortly ruled from Elmina, until it was recaptured by the Portuguese as well in the same year.\n\nWith the establishment of the Second Dutch West India Company in 1675, the government structure was revised. The area under the authority of the Director-General was redefined as \"the Coast of Africa, from Sierra Leone all exclusively to 30 degrees South of the equator, together with all the islands in between,\" thereby nominally reinstating the claim on the territories lost in this area to the Portuguese. The title of the Director-General was concurrently changed to \"Director-General of the North and South Coast of Africa.\" This larger claim was not primarily meant to reclaim Luanda and Sao Tomé from the Portuguese, however, but merely to establish authority over Dutch trade in the area. This was especially relevant for Loango, from which the Dutch began buying slaves in large amounts from the 1670s onward. Until the liquidation of the Dutch West India Company in 1791, the title of the Director-General and the limits of jurisdiction remained the same.\n\nAccording to the 1722 government instruction, the Council comprised the Director-General, who functioned as the Council's president, the fiscal (Dutch: \"fiscaal\"), the senior merchant (Dutch: \"opperkoopman\"), and the senior commissioners (Dutch: \"oppercommies\"). These senior commissioners consisted of the head of Fort Saint Anthony at Axim, the head of Fort Nassau at Moree, the head of Fort Crèvecoeur at Accra, and the head of the factory at Ouidah, on the Dutch Slave Coast. Between 1746 and 1768, the Council consisted of the Director-General, the fiscal, and the seven highest ranking \"first officials\", which included the senior commissioners, the master of works (Dutch: \"equipagemeester\"), the bookkeeper-general (Dutch: \"boekhouder-generaal\"), and the ensign (Dutch: \"vaandrig\"). In 1768, the Council was again reduced to the fiscal, the three senior commissioners (the trading post at Ouidah has since been abandoned), and the commissioner-and councillor. The composition of the Council was changed for a final time in 1784, in the wake of the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War, now extending the membership to include the bookkeeper-general-and-commissioner.\n\nAfter the liquidation of the Dutch West India Company in 1791, the Council of Colonies for the West Indies took over the government of the Dutch Gold Coast. Little changed in the first years, and the old administration of the Dutch West India Company was left largely intact.\n\nThis changed when the Batavian Republic replaced the Dutch Republic in 1795. The administration of the Dutch Gold Coast was reformed by a secret resolution of 12 May 1801. The office of Director-General was renamed Governor-General, and the Council was split in a Great Council and a Small Council. The Small Council was responsible for the everyday government of the colony, and comprised the Governor-General, the administrator-and-Director-General (Dutch: \"administrateur en directeur-generaal\"), the master of stores, the master of works, and the bookkeeper of the general office (Dutch: \"boekhouder ten comptoir-generaal\"). The Great Council consisted of the Small Council, with the addition of the residents of Fort Crèvecoeur at Accra, Fort Saint Anthony at Axim, Fort Saint Sebastian at Shama, and Fort Amsterdam at Kormatin, and met every three months.\n\nThe administration of the Dutch Gold Coast was again reformed when the Kingdom of Holland replaced the Batavian Republic in 1806. By royal decree of Louis Napoleon, King of Holland, the office of Governor-General was demoted to Commandant-General in 1807, and the administration was overhauled in 1809. An even bigger change came with the establishment of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1815. Leaving behind the uncertain years of French occupation, and with slave trade abolished, the newly established kingdom put up a plan to transform the colony into a profitable plantation colony. For this purpose, the new governor Herman Willem Daendels was given an open mandate and a large budget. The project was cut short with Daendels early death in 1818, however.\n\nLeft without a visionary governor, budgets were cut for the colony. The new regulations of 1 November 1819 reduced the budget to the minimum necessary to keep the colony running, fired all unnecessary colonial officers, and pensioned of most of the slaves of the state. Most notably, the offices of bookkeeper, fiscal, secretary, cashier, and bailiff were combined into one office, the summation of functions actually being the office-holder's title (Dutch: \"boekhouder, fiscaal, secretaris, kassier en deurwaarder\"). Also, the office of Governor-General was demoted to Commander. When the Dutch decided to recruit soldiers for the Dutch East Indies Army in 1836, the government was strengthened again, something which was reinforced in the wake of the destastrous Ahanta War of 1838. By virtue of a royal decree dated 23 March 1838, the office of Commander was raised to Governor and extra officers were installed to make the government more effective. The government itself was reformed in 1847, which among its most notable inventions included the establishment of a Court of Justice, legally separate from the Council, although memberships often overlapped. The office of fiscal, responsible for public prosecution, was renamed Officer of Justice.\n\nIn the late 1850s, the administrative divisions into forts was changed into a division into districts (Dutch: \"afdelingen\"), asserting Dutch sovereignty (or suzerainty) over not only the forts, but also the territory surrounding the forts. District officers were instructed to make surveys of physical, economic, and socio-political situation of the districts. As a consequence of the tariff system set up in the Anglo-Dutch Gold Coast Treaty, a tax and customs office was established in Elmina in 1867. At the same time, a postal office was established as well.\n\nAlthough the colony is nowadays primarily associated with Atlantic slave trade, this was not the reason for the first Dutch traders to trade with the Gold Coast. Barent Eriksz made a profit trading gold, ivory, and West African pepper, and these products remained the primary trading goods in the early 17th century. According to Joannes de Laet, the Dutch West India had transported West-African goods worth 14 million Dutch guilders to the Dutch Republic by 1637, of which the most important was the trade in gold.\n\nThis changed with the gradual capture of Brazil from the Portuguese, from 1630 onward. Suddenly, the trade of slaves, for which there was no significant market earlier, became a necessity for the economic survival of Dutch Brazil. Nicolas van Yperen, Governor of the Dutch possessions on the Gold Coast, was instructed by his superiors of the Dutch West India Company to supply Dutch Brazil with slaves. In 1636, he managed to ship around a thousand slaves to Brazil from Fort Nassau, but to secure a continuous flow of slave labour, the company decided it was necessary to attempt once more to capture Elmina from the Portuguese. After Elmina was finally captured in August 1637, the focus of trade for the Dutch West India Company shifted to slave trade. The directors of the Dutch West India Company were not happy with the increasing slave trade on the Gold Coast itself, however, as it interfered with the profitable gold trade, and actively tried to move the slave trade to the Slave Coast, where they had trading posts from 1640 onward.\n\nThe loss of Brazil did not collapse Dutch slave trade, as in 1662, Dutch signed their first \"asiento\" with the Spanish Empire, pledging to provide slaves to Spanish America, primarily through their trading post in Willemstad, Curaçao. Furthermore, in 1664, the Dutch conquered Suriname, complementing Berbice and Essequibo as Caribbean plantation colonies depending on slave labour.\n\nMeanwhile, the Dutch had tried in 1654 to directly control the mining of gold by building Fort Ruychaver far inland on the Ankobra River, but had left gold production to the locals since that fort was attacked and burned to the ground in 1660. The supply of gold declined dramatically at the turn of the eighteenth century, due to tribal warfare among the people of the Gold Coast. While the Ashanti succeeded in the Battle of Feyiase of 1701 to establish their hegemony on the Gold Coast, it took them a few years to fully \"pacify\" their newly conquered territory. 1701 proved to be the historic low for the gold trade, with only 530 mark of gold exported, worth 178.080 guilders.\n\nWhereas the supply of gold was declining, the supply of slaves boomed as never before. This was to a large part due to the Ashanti wars; Governor-General Willem de la Palma wrote to his superiors at the Dutch West India Company that the war had unleashed slave raids among the local peoples in the Gold Coast. Whereas between 1693 and 1701 1,522 slaves were transported from Elmina to the Americas, an average of 169 slaves per year, 1,213 slaves were transported between 1702 and 1704, an average of 404 per year.\n\nApart from increased supply of slaves, the demand also increased due to the asiento trading with the Spanish. Between 1660 and 1690, the Dutch trading posts in Africa, which included the Slave Coast, Arguin, and Senegambia, shipped a third of the total number of slaves across the Atlantic. On the Gold Coast, Governor De la Palma actively tried to systemize the slave trade and improve the numbers of slave shipped to the Americas. To this purpuse, he sent Jacob van den Broucke as \"opperkommies\" (head merchant) to the Dutch trading post at Ouidah, on the Slave Coast.\n\nDe la Palma was a difficult personality and often at odds with his merchants and local African leaders. He resigned from his position in September 1705, but died before he could return to the Dutch Republic. He was replaced by his deputy, Pieter Nuyts, who tried to revive the gold trade at the coast.\n\nBut by the beginning of the eighteenth century, even slave trade dwindled, with the Dutch becoming a rather small player in the trans-Atlantic trade. Since globally this trade peaked in the 18th century, this meant that the Dutch contribution to the Atlantic slave trade only amounts to 5% of the grand total, equalling around 500,000 slaves shipped from Africa to the Americas.\n\nIn 1730, the monopoly of the Dutch West India Company on the Atlantic slave trade was lifted. This contributed to the rise of the Middelburgsche Commercie Compagnie (MCC), which dominated the Dutch slave trade for much of the eighteenth century.\n\nWith the Anglo-Dutch Treaty of 1814, the Dutch vowed to stop trading slaves. This meant a severe blow to the economy of the Gold Coast, which had increasingly relied on slave trade from the 18th century onwards. Attempts were made to establish a plantation colony and to open gold mines on the coast, but virtually all attempts proved failures.\n\nOne of the first attempts at establishing a plantation was made by the sons of Governor-General Herman Willem Daendels in 1816. They established a plantation named \"Oranje Dageraad\" in Simbo. The Governor-General himself tried to buy 300 slaves from Kumasi, which were to regain their freedom by cultivating farmland. Both projects failed.\n\nBetween 1845 and 1850, the colonial government once again, after the failure of Fort Ruychaver, tried to establish a gold mine on the coast. The Dutch government bought an open-air gold mine from the chief of Butre, and sent in 1845 an expedition of a director, three engineers, and nine workers \nto the village of Dabokrom to establish a mine. Two engineers and all nine workers fell victim to tropical diseases and died, leaving the rest of the expedition to return to Europe. The second expedition of 1847 was not less successful, now with 11 out of 13 people dying. By 1850, the Dutch government ended the mining attempt.\n\nAnother attempt to develop the colony involved the establishment of a cotton plantation just outside Elmina. In light of this project, a Brazilian man by the name of La Rocha Vièra was brought to the Gold Coast. Due to the rude treatment of workers, La Rocha Vièra was unable to attract new labourers, and the plantation died an early death. In 1848, a tobacco plantation was attempted in the government's garden in Elmina, but failed due to bad soil conditions. A more successful tobacco plantation was established in Simbo, but fell victim to a lack of labourers wanting to work on the plantation. From February to October 1859, Dutch colonial government official J.S.G. Gramberg tried to develop the soil on the Bossumprah River, but also had difficulty attracting workers.\n\nThe only two plantations that were successful comprised a coffee plantation in Akropong, established by missionaries from Basel, and another coffee plantation in Mayra near Accra, owned by mulatto entrepreneur Lutterodt, worked by slaves.\n\nUntil the destruction of Elmina in 1873, the town was the largest settlement on the Gold Coast, eclipsing Accra and Kumasi. In the 18th century, its population numbered 12,000 to 16,000 inhabitants, and in the 19th century, this figure rose to between 18,000 and 20,000. Most of these inhabitants were not European, however; their number peaked at 377 Dutch West India Company employees for the entire Dutch Gold Coast in the 18th century, before sinking back to a mere 20 officers in the 19th century.\n\nMuch more important were the African inhabitants of Elmina, who came from every region of the Gold Coast to Elmina to try their luck. Slaves formed a considerable portion of the population of Elmina as well, and were often in the possession of the Akan people inhabitants themselves. The third group in Elmina was of mixed race, and the result of interracial relations between Dutch West India Company employees and African women in Elmina. The illegitimate children of the employees were called \"Tapoeijers\" by the Dutch, for, according to them, the colour of their skin resembled those of native Americans. A decree from 1700 by the Governor-General at Elmina stipulated that employees of the Dutch West India Company who were to return to the Netherlands either had to take their (illegitimate) children with them, or had to pay a sum of money to provide for their \"Christian upbringing\". For the latter purpose, a school was established in Elmina.\n\nMany people of mixed descent, also referred to as Euro-Africans, became wealthy merchants. The most prominent of these was Jan Niezer, who visited Europe on several occasions, and who traded directly with European and American companies.\n\nThe fourth group in Elmina was also of mixed descent, but had a different status as \"Vrijburghers\" (free citizens). They had the same rights as Europeans, and were organized in a separate in so-called Asafo company known as \"Akrampafo\". Their burgemeester had the power to conclude treaties with the Dutch, and all Vrijburghers had the right to wear a sword. Well known Vrijburghers include Carel Hendrik Bartels, Jacob Huidecoper and Jacob Simon. Many Vrijburghers worked in the lower ranks of the Dutch administration of Elmina, and in the 19th century, various Vrijburgher families sent their children (girls included) to Europe for education. In the 19th century, the Vrijburghers settled north of the Benya lagune, near Fort Coenraadsburg. This part of Elmina, also known as \"the Garden\" was spared from British bombardment in 1873.\n\nThe presence of European powers on the Gold Coast opened up the area to the outside world, and some Africans from the Gold Coast achieved a modicum of accomplishment in European society. Two Africans from the Gold Coast are especially notable in this regard, although one of them is notorious for defending slavery as compatible with Christianity.\n\nAnton Wilhelm Amo was born near Axim in 1703 and sent to Amsterdam by the Dutch West India Company around 1707. He was given as a present to Anthony Ulrich, Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel. Amo was baptised, went to school at the Wolfenbüttel Ritter-Akademie (1717–1721) the University of Helmstedt (1721–1727), and the University of Halle (1727–1729), and subsequently gained a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Wittenberg in 1734 with the thesis \"On the Absence of Sensation in the Human Mind and its Presence in our Organic and Living Body\", in which he argued against Cartesian dualism and in favour of a broadly materialist account of the person. In 1740, Amo took up a post in philosophy at the University of Jena, but in 1747 he returned to the Gold Coast where he died in 1759. Amo was the first black person to attend a European university. He lies interred in the graveyard of Fort San Sebastian.\n\nAround 1717 Jacobus Capitein was born in the Gold Coast. He was forcibly taken to the Netherlands in 1725, where he was given to Jacobus van Goch. Capitein excelled at school and announced during his baptism in 1735 that he wanted to return to the Gold Coast as a missionary. To that effect he studied at Leiden University between 1737 and 1742, graduating on a dissertation defending slavery. He was subsequently installed by the Dutch East India Company as a Christian minister at Elmina, where he married Antonia Ginderdros. Ashanti king Opoku Ware I demanded that Capitein teach his children, which he did. Capitein died in Elmina in 1747.\n\nAfter the Dutch East Indies gained independence as Indonesia in 1949, most Belanda Hitam migrated to the Netherlands, since they had been soldiers of the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army. Other than that, the Dutch colonial history on the Gold Coast was more or less forgotten. This changed slightly after Arthur Japin published the earlier mentioned \"The Two Hearts of Kwasi Boachi\" in 1997. This attention also revealed that the head of Ahanta king Badu Bonsu II, taken to the Netherlands after his execution in 1838, was still in the possession of the Leiden University Medical Centre. The head of the king was handed over to the Ghanaian ambassador in a ceremony held on 23 July 2009 in The Hague.\n\nIn 2002, the 300 year anniversary of diplomatic ties between Ghana and the Netherlands was celebrated, with Dutch Crown Prince Willem-Alexander and his wife Máxima visiting Ghana between 14 and 17 April, and with Ashanti king Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II visiting the Netherlands in June. The anniversary referred to is the sending by the Dutch West India Company of David van Neyendael as envoy to the Ashanti Empire in 1701, after the Ashanti had become the dominant power on the Gold Coast by defeating the Denkyira at the Battle of Feyiase.\n\nRemnants of Dutch presence in the Gold Coast, other than the forts along the coastline, are Dutch surnames which were taken on by the descendents of the children the Dutch slave traders had with their black mistresses. Bossman is a common surname in Ghana, and ultimately derives from the Dutch slave trader Willem Bosman. Other Ghanaian surnames derived from Dutch names include Bartels, Van Dyck, and De Veer. In an episode of \"Who Do You Think You Are?\", British-Ghanaian actor Hugh Quarshie traced his ancestry to Pieter Martinus Johannes Kamerling, a Dutch official on the Gold Coast.\n\nIn 1868, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands traded some forts in order to create more geographically contiguous areas of influence. The Netherlands ceded Fort Nassau, Fort Crêvecoeur, Fort Amsterdam, Fort Goede Hoop, and Fort Lijdzaamheid, and in return received Apollonia (renamed Fort Willem III), Fort Dixcove (renamed Fort Metalen Kruis), Fort Komenda (not to be confused with the already Dutch Fort Vredenburgh, also in Komenda), and Fort Sekondi (not to be confused with the already Dutch Fort Orange, also in Sekondi). This arrangement proved short-lived, as the colony was completely ceded to the United Kingdom in 1872.\n\nApart from the main forts held for more than a century, other forts in the region have been temporarily occupied by the Dutch:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16465131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16465131", "title": "Endurance Ridge", "text": "Endurance Ridge\n\nEndurance Ridge () is an Antarctic undersea ridge, south-east of Coronation Island in the South Atlantic Ocean. It was named after the Endurance Expedition of 1914–1917, and its name was approved by the Advisory Committee for Undersea Features in June 1987.\n"}
{"id": "27867584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27867584", "title": "Frisian house", "text": "Frisian house\n\nThere are several types of Frisian houses in the Netherlands as well as in Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "18384964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18384964", "title": "Full pond", "text": "Full pond\n\nFull pond is an American phrase used to describe the water level of a lake, reservoir or other body of fresh water when the level is just below the spillway, or is otherwise at a maximum, sustainable and safe level. \n\nTechnically, a body of water can have a water level higher than full pond when the inflow of water into the body greatly exceeds the outflow (such as during a heavy rain event), even if the body of water is not at full flood level. Most lakes and reservoirs have the ability to lower the level of the lake even when it is already significantly below full. This is used for flood prevention during periods of high (or potentially high) inflow to prevent flooding and to prevent water from breaching containment when it is expected the body of water will soon exceed full pond status.\n\n"}
{"id": "28527484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28527484", "title": "International rankings of Venezuela", "text": "International rankings of Venezuela\n\nThese are the international rankings of Venezuela.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40125686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40125686", "title": "Islas de Santa Fe National Park", "text": "Islas de Santa Fe National Park\n\nIslas de Santa Fe National Park () is a national park of Argentina. It is situated in San Jerónimo Department, Santa Fe, Argentina.It was established in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "38901016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38901016", "title": "Jimmy Adegoke", "text": "Jimmy Adegoke\n\nJames O. Adegoke (born 1963) is an award-winning climate scientist and professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City (UMKC) where he served as Chair of the Department of Geosciences (2008-2010). He also served as an appointee of the Mayor of Kansas City Missouri on the city’s Environmental Management Commission (EMC) and has testified before the South Africa Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Science and Technology and the Climate Change Committee of the Nigerian House of Representatives.\n\nIn the United States, he has testified at the United States House of Representatives for the United States House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. He also serves on the Technical Advisory Board of several United Nations (UN) applied science programs, including the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) project on the application of remote sensing for water resources and ecosystem management in Africa.\n\nAdegoke majored in Geography, with minors in Physics and Geology, as an undergraduate at Ahmadu Bello University. He attended the University of Ibadan, earning an M.S. in Geography, specializing in Climatology, and a Ph.D. at Pennsylvania State University, focusing on satellite climatology. He conducted research at the Joint Institute for the Study of the Atmosphere and Ocean (JISAO) at the University of Washington.\n\nHis work focuses on societal impacts of environmental change, including air pollution studies in rapidly changing mid-latitude urban areas, climate impacts on water resources in the Lake Chad Basin, and coastal ecosystem dynamics in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria. He is a member of several professional societies including the American Geophysical Union (AGU), Association of American Geographers (AAG), and American Meteorological Society (AMS). He is on the Advisory Council of the African Association for Remote Sensing of the Environment (AARSE).\n\nHe had held research and teaching appointments at the Federal University of Technology Minna in Nigeria, Colorado State University in Fort Collins, Colorado and the Earth Resources Observation Systems (EROS) Data Center, in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. From 2010 to 2012 he served as the Executive Director of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Natural Resources & Environment (NRE) Division, in Pretoria, South Africa where he had concurrent appointment as Director of the Applied Center for Climate & Earth Systems Science (ACCESS), a Center of Excellence (CoE) of the South Africa Department of Science and Technology (DST) Global Change Grande Challenge (GCGC) program. More recently, he completed a consultancy stint in 2017 (April to December) as Interim Executive Director of the West African Science Service Center on Climate Change and Adapted Land Use (WASCAL). Before that, he served for two years on WASCAL's Governing Board and as Chair of the organization's Scientific Advisory Committee \n\n"}
{"id": "53091648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53091648", "title": "José Antonio Sosa", "text": "José Antonio Sosa\n\nJosé Antonio Sosa Díaz-Saavedra was brought up in a family with an interest in art and history, especially in relation to the Canary Islands. As a result, he was encouraged to study architecture, graduating from the Superior Technical School of Architecture of Madrid in 1981. In 1994, he earned a Ph.D at the School of Architecture, University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria.\n\nAfter completing his doctoral studies, he obtained the chair of Architectural Projects in the Department of Graphic Expression and Architectural Projects of the EALPGC, School of Architecture of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, where he has been since 1983.\n\nIn the year 2000 he was \"Visiting Scholar\" and taught in the Department of Architecture, belonging to the Graduate School of Design, Harvard University, he has also participated as a jury in several universities among which is the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, ETH (Studio Basel).\n\nIn 2015 he joined the University Institute of Intelligent Systems and Numerical Applications in Engineering of the ULPGC, University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria.\n\nJosé Antonio Sosa has been the main proponent of modern architectural development in the early twentieth century in the Canary Islands and Spain, promoting its place in the history of urban and cultural heritage. As a result, he was appointed a member of the Royal Spanish Academy.\n\nIn 1996 Professor Sosa joined his studio to Magüi González creating the Nred Arquitectos Group, where several projects stand out: the City of Justice (New Law Courts Headquarters) and the rehabilitation of the Town Halls (Town Hall Houses) of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria.\n\nSince 2011, he has founded a new studio for architecture and urban planning together with Evelyn Alonso Rohner.\n\nIn 2015 José Antonio Sosa is the managing editor of the Arquiatesis editorial line for the publication and publication of theses and research works in architecture.\n\nSosa, has participated in the following exhibitions:\n\n\nProfessor Sosa has been awarded in the following competitions:\n\n\nSome of them are:\n\n\nSosa has published the following texts:\n\n\nAmong them are:\n\n"}
{"id": "37674099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37674099", "title": "Katoomba Falls", "text": "Katoomba Falls\n\nThe Katoomba Falls is a segmented waterfall that is located close to Echo Point near on the Kedumba River descending into the Jamison Valley located within the Blue Mountains National Park in the Blue Mountains region of New South Wales, Australia.\n\nA tourist park with unpowered and powered camp sites and cabins is located near the head of the waterfall on Scenic Drive.\n\n"}
{"id": "54524137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54524137", "title": "Kerkhof", "text": "Kerkhof\n\nKerkhof is a Dutch toponymic surname meaning \"church yard\" (and hence \"grave yard\"). An ancestor may have lived near or worked in the church yard, or have come from a number of villages and hamlets named \"Kerkhove\" or \"Kerkhoven\". Among variant forms of the surname are Kerckhoff(s), \"Kerkhoff(s)\", Kerkhove(n), and \"Van (de) Kerkhof(f)\". Notable people with the surname include:\n\nKerkhoff(s)\nVan Kerkhof\nVan de Kerkhof\n"}
{"id": "24593158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24593158", "title": "LGTE", "text": "LGTE\n\nLucene Geographic and Temporal (LGTE) is an information retrieval tool developed at Technical University of Lisbon which can be used as a search engine or as evaluation system for information retrieval techniques for research purposes. The first implementation powered by LGTE was the search engine of DIGMAP, a project co-funded by the community programme eContentplus between 2006 and 2008, which was aimed to provide services available on the web over old digitized maps from a group of partners over Europe including several National Libraries. \n\nThe tool LGTE is built in Java Programming Language around the Lucene library for full-text search and introduces several extensions for dealing with geographical and temporal information. The package also includes utilities for information retrieval evaluation, such as classes for handling CLEF/TREC (Cross Language Evaluation Forúm/Text Retrieval Conference) topics and document collections. \n\nTechnically LGTE is a layer on the top of Lucene and provides an extended Lucene API to integrate several services like snippets generation, query expansion, and many others. The LGTE provides the chance to implement new probabilistic models. The API depends on a set of modifications at the Lucene level, originally created by the researchers of the University of Amsterdam in a software tool named Lucene-lm developed by the group of Information and Language Processing Systems (ILPS). At the time, the tool was tested with success for the Okapi BM25 model, and a multinomial language model, but also includes divergence from randomness models. \n\nThe LGTE 1.1.9 and later versions also provide the possibility to isolate the index fields in different index folders. Another recent feature is the configuration of Hierarchic Indexes using foreign key fields. This gives the chance to create scores for example based on the text of the sentence combined with the general score of the entire page.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57831412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57831412", "title": "List of Commonwealth of Nations countries by GDP (PPP)", "text": "List of Commonwealth of Nations countries by GDP (PPP)\n\nThis is a list of Commonwealth of Nations countries by gross domestic product at purchasing power parity (PPP). Gross domestic product is the value of all final goods and services produced within a nation in a given year. The GDP dollar estimates presented here are calculated at market or government official exchange rates. Values are given in millions of US dollars. Dependent territories are shown in italics and are not ranked, and their flags are shown alongside the country of which they are a territory.\n\nThe table below shows the latest PPP and PPP per capita data for Commonwealth countries and territories of the member countries. Most figures (including for the world) are 2017 data from the International Monetary Fund, and are shown in international dollars. Other figures are estimates from \"The World Factbook\" of the Central Intelligence Agency (for GDP and GDP per capita), and are noted beside the figures along with the year of estimate. \n\nClick on one of the small triangles in the headings to re-order the list according to that category.\n\nNote: The figures for the dependent territories are slightly outdated (e.g. the GDP per capita figure for the Cayman Islands is from 2004), therefore they may not be easily compared with more recent figures for sovereign states.\n"}
{"id": "37439101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37439101", "title": "List of Intangible Cultural Heritage elements in Northern Europe", "text": "List of Intangible Cultural Heritage elements in Northern Europe\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) intangible cultural heritage elements are components of a country's cultural heritage that are equally as important as physical cultural elements, like World Heritage Sites. The elements are abstract and must be learned, encompassing traditional knowledge which includes festivals, music, performances, celebrations, handicrafts, and oral traditions. The Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage, which approves new inscription requests, and a definition of \"intangible cultural heritage\" are both established in the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage, drafted in 2003, and taking effect in 2006.\n\nNorthern Europe comprises Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, and the following dependent territories: the Faroe Islands controlled by Denmark, the Åland Islands controlled by Finland, Svalbard and Jan Mayen controlled by Norway, and the British Crown dependencies, Guernsey and Jersey, and the Isle of Man. Six intangible cultural heritage elements originate from the region. Three have been inscribed as elements of Estonia and Lithuania, two as elements of Latvia, one for Ireland, and none for Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Estonia, Lithuania, and Latvia share one cultural heritage element.\n\nThe table lists information about each International Cultural Heritage element:\n\nExclusive heritage elements are those that are inscribed as a heritage of a single country. Shared heritage elements are inscribed as elements of multiple countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2142723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2142723", "title": "List of Tehran metropolis parks", "text": "List of Tehran metropolis parks\n\nTehran, the capital of Iran, possesses more than 800 well-kept parks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44719687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44719687", "title": "List of colonial governors of Italian Eritrea", "text": "List of colonial governors of Italian Eritrea\n\nThis article lists the colonial governors of Italian Eritrea from 1890 to 1941. They administered the territory on behalf of the Kingdom of Italy.\n\nBefore the official creation of Italian Eritrea (\"Colonia Eritrea\") in 1890, the territory had seven interim governors: Giovanni Branchi (1882 to 1885), Alessandro Caimi (1885), Tancredi Saletta (1885), Carlo Genè (1886 to 1887), Tancredi Saletta (1887), Alessandro Di San Marzano (1888) and Antonio Baldissera (1889).\n\nComplete list of Italian Governors of Eritrea:\nFrom 1936, the colony of Eritrea was increased in size and called Eritrea Governorate, as part of Africa Orientale Italiana (AOI). The Italian governors were under direct orders of the Viceroy (representing the now-King and Emperor Vittorio Emanuele III).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12070204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12070204", "title": "List of geographic names of Iranian origin", "text": "List of geographic names of Iranian origin\n\nThis is a list of geographic names of Iranian origin. This list also includes geographic names which are in part derived from Iranian languages.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFormed with the Persian suffix -istan, literally meaning \"land of the Kazakh or Ghazagh\" in Persian.\n\n\nFormed with the Persian suffix -istan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPersians did not rule North India. Their limit was Baluchistan and NWFP.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFurthermore, the name \"Hindustan\", a name for historical North India, is Persian derived.\n\n\n\nVarious cities and towns of South Asia ending in the Persian suffix -ābād ().\n\n"}
{"id": "17010898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17010898", "title": "List of parks in Seoul", "text": "List of parks in Seoul\n\nThis is a list of parks in Seoul, South Korea.\n\n\n\nwebsite\n"}
{"id": "398695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398695", "title": "List of political parties in Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "List of political parties in Antigua and Barbuda\n\nThis article lists political parties in Antigua and Barbuda.\nAntigua and Barbuda has a two-party system, which means that there are two dominant political parties, with extreme difficulty for anybody to achieve electoral success under the banner of any other party.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1127515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127515", "title": "List of rulers of the Gibe state of Guma", "text": "List of rulers of the Gibe state of Guma\n\nThe following is a list of rulers of the Kingdom of Gumma. Gumma was one of the kingdoms in the Gibe region of Ethiopia that emerged in the 18th century.\n\nSource: Based on C.F. Beckingham and G.W.B. Huntingford, \"Some Records of Ethiopia, 1593-1646\" (London: Hakluyt Society, 1954), p. lxxxvif\n\n"}
{"id": "29805262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29805262", "title": "List of songs about Miami", "text": "List of songs about Miami\n\nThis article lists songs about Miami, set there, or named after a location or feature of the city.\n\nIt is not intended to include songs where Miami is simply \"name-checked\" along with various other cities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20006224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20006224", "title": "List of songs about Montreal", "text": "List of songs about Montreal\n\nThis is a list of songs about or referencing Montreal, the largest city in the Canadian province of Quebec and Canada's second-largest.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "494100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=494100", "title": "List of tectonic plates", "text": "List of tectonic plates\n\nThis is a list of tectonic plates on the Earth's surface. Tectonic plates are pieces of Earth's crust and uppermost mantle, together referred to as the lithosphere. The plates are around thick and consist of two principal types of material: oceanic crust (also called \"sima\" from silicon and magnesium) and continental crust (\"sial\" from silicon and aluminium). The composition of the two types of crust differs markedly, with mafic basaltic rocks dominating oceanic crust, while continental crust consists principally of lower-density felsic granitic rocks.\n\n\nGeologists generally agree that the following tectonic plates currently exist on the Earth's surface with roughly definable boundaries. Tectonic plates are sometimes subdivided into three fairly arbitrary categories: \"major\" (or \"primary\") \"plates\", \"minor\" (or \"secondary\") \"plates\", and \"microplates\" (or \"tertiary plates\").\n\nThese plates comprise the bulk of the continents and the Pacific Ocean. For purposes of this list, a major plate is any plate with an area greater than 20 million km.\n\nThese smaller plates are often not shown on major plate maps, as the majority do not comprise significant land area. For purposes of this list, a minor plate is any plate with an area less than 20 million km but greater than 1 million km.\n\nThese plates are often grouped with an adjacent major plate on a major plate map. For purposes of this list, a microplate is any plate with an area less than 1 million km. Some models identify more minor plates within current orogens (events that lead to a large structural deformation of the Earth's lithosphere) like the Apulian, Explorer, Gorda, and Philippine Mobile Belt plates. There may be scientific consensus as to whether such plates should be considered distinct portions of the crust; thus new research could change this list.\n\nIn the history of Earth many tectonic plates have come into existence and have over the intervening years either accreted onto other plates to form larger plates, rifted into smaller plates, or have been crushed by or subducted under other plates (or have done all three).\n\nThe following list includes the supercontinents known or speculated to have existed in the Earth's past:\n\nNot all plate boundaries are easily defined, especially for ancient pieces of crust. The following list of ancient cratons, microplates, plates, shields, terranes, and zones no longer exist as separate plates. \"Cratons\" are the oldest and most stable parts of the continental lithosphere and \"shields\" are the exposed area of a craton(s). \"Microplates\" are tiny tectonic plates, \"terranes\" are fragments of crustal material formed on one tectonic plate and accreted to crust lying on another plate, and \"zones\" are bands of similar rocks on a plate formed by terrane accretion or native rock formation. Terranes may or may not have originated as independent microplates: a terrane may not contain the full thickness of the lithosphere.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20625", "title": "Makran", "text": "Makran\n\nMakran (, ) is a semi-desert coastal strip in Balochistan, in Pakistan and Iran, along the coast of the Gulf of Oman.\n\nThe southern part of Balochistan is called \"Kech Makran\" on Pakistani side and Makran on the Iranian side which is also the name of a former Iranian province. Prior to that, in Achaemenid times, the name \"Maka\" was used for the region. The Sumerian trading partners of Magan are identified with Makran. In Varahamihira's Brihat Samhita, there is a mention of a tribe called \"Makara\" inhabiting the lands west of India. Arrian used the term \"Ichthyophagi\" (Ancient Greek for \"fish eaters\") for inhabitants of coastal areas, which has led to a suggestion to derive \"Makran\" from the Modern Persian term \"māhī khorān\", meaning \"fish eaters\", but this derivation is considered \"erroneous\".\n\nMaka was an important early eastern satrapy of Cyrus the Great, founder of the Achaemenid Empire. The Babylonians had made voyages using Maka to communicate with India. After Cyrus' death, Darius I of Persia succeeded his throne, and, according to Greek historian Herodotus, wanted to know more about Asia. He wished to know where the \"Indus (which is the only river save one that produces crocodiles) emptied itself into the sea\". After personally leading his elite forces, whose ranks were restricted to those with Persian, Mede, or Elamite ancestry, to fight the invading Scythians, he led a campaign of conquest towards South Asia, conquering Sindh in 519 BC and constituting it as his 20th satrapy. After the fall of the Achaemenid Empire, Alexander the Great also crossed Maka in his campaign of conquest. His army marched through a harsh desert path in Makran, where he lost a significant number of soldiers due to the harsh desert conditions.\n\nHerodotus on several occasions mentions the contributions of the \"Mykians\", who inhabited the eastern portion of the Achaemenid Empire. They are mentioned as \"the men from Maka\" in daiva inscriptions. The \"Daiva inscription\" is one of the most important of all Achaemenid inscriptions. The Mykians served in the army of Xerxes the Great at the battle of Thermopylae. They are also thought to be responsible for inventions such as qanats and underground drainage galleries that bring water from an aquifer on the piedmont to gardens or palm groves on the plains. These inventions were very important reasons behind the success of the empire. The Mykians of the other side of ancient Maka, the present day region of Balochistan and Sindh, are thought to have later become independent, as they are not mentioned in Arrian of Nicomedia's account of the campaigns of Alexander the Great; he mentions only the Omani side of Maka, which he calls \"Maketa\". The reasons for this may have been the arguably unjust rule of Xerxes.\n\nAbū Rayḥān Muḥammad ibn Aḥmad Al-Bīrūnī, states in his book \"India\" that the coast of India begins with Tiz, the capital of Makran.\n\nAccording to historian Andre Wink:\nWink has recorded Hiuen Tsang's notings on the language and script in use in easternmost Makran (eastern parts of Pakistani Balochistan and Sindh):\n\nThe first Islamic conquest of Makran took place during the Rashidun Caliphate in the year 643 A.D. Caliph Umar’s governor of Bahrain, Usman ibn Abu al-Aas, who was on a campaign to conquer the southern coastal areas beyond Sassanid, sent his brother Hakam ibn Abu al-Aas to raid and reconnoitre the Makran region.\n\nIn late 644 AD Caliph Umar dispatched an army under the command of Hakam ibn Amr for the wholesale invasion of Makkuran. He was joined by reinforcements from Kufa under the command of Shahab ibn Makharaq, and by Abdullah ibn Utban, the commander of a campaign in Kerman. They encountered no strong resistance in Makran until the army of the King of Rai, along with contingents from Makran and Sind, stopped them near the Indus River. In mid-644 the Battle of Rasil was fought between the forces of the Rashidun Caliphate and the Rai Kingdom; the Raja's forces were defeated and forced to retreat to the eastern bank of the Indus. The Raja’s army had included war elephants, but these had posed little problem for the Muslim invaders, who had dealt with them during the conquest of Persia. In accordance with the orders of Caliph Umar, the captured war elephants were sold in Islamic Persia, with the proceeds distributed among the soldiers as share in booty. In response to Caliph Umar’s questions about the Makran region, the messenger from Makkuran who brought the news of the victory told him:\n\nUmar looked at the messenger and said: \n\"Are you a messenger or a poet?\" He replied, \"Messenger\". \nThereupon Caliph Umar instructed Hakim bin Amr al Taghlabi that for the time being Makkuran should be the easternmost frontier of the Islamic empire, and that no further attempt should be made to extend the conquests.\n\nMakran remained part of the Umayyad and Abbasid Caliphate, and was also ruled by Muslim Turks, Persian. It was conquered by Mongols in the 13th century AD but failed later, and in the 18th century the Baluch Nawab had agreed for governing the Makran region with mutual interest between both sides, as the British failed to conquer the area by force.\n\nBaloch raiders plundered Mahmud of Ghazni's ambassador between Tabbas and Khabis. In revenge, his son Masud defeated them at the latter place, which lies at the foot of the Karman Mountains on the edge of the desert.\n\nFrom the 15th century onward, the area was ruled by the Rind tribe which was headed by Mir Chakar Rind later by Hooth Dynasty In Makran Which led by Hooths and Khosags, Buledis, Noesherwani, Ghichkis and in small particular part govern by Gorgeig and Sardarzahi. In the late 18th century, the Khan of Kalat is said to have granted sanctuary at Gwadar to one of the claimants for the throne of Muscat. When that claimant became Sultan, he kept hold of Gwadar, installing a governor, who eventually led an army to conquer the city of Chabahar some 200 kilometres to the west.\n\nThe sultanate held onto the Makran coast throughout the period of British colonial rule, but eventually only Gwadar was left in the hands of the sultan. On the independence of Pakistan, Makran became a district within the province of Balochistan, minus an area of 800 km around Gwadar. The enclave was finally transferred in 1958 to Pakistani control as part of the district of Makran. The entire region has been subdivided into new smaller districts over the years.\n\nThe narrow coastal plain rises rapidly into several mountain ranges. Of the coastline, around is in Pakistan. The climate is dry with little rainfall. Makran is very sparsely inhabited, with much of the population concentrated in a string of small ports including Chabahar, Gwatar, Jiwani, Jask, Sirik, Gwadar (not to be confused with Gwatar), Pasni, Ormara and many smaller fishing villages.\n\nThere is only one island off the coast of Makran, Astola Island, near Pasni although there are several small islets. The coastline can be divided into an eastern lagoon coastline and a western embayed coastline. The main lagoons are Miani Hor and Kalamat Hor. The main bays of the embayed coast are Gwadar Bay and Gwatar Bay. This latter bay shelters a large mangrove forest and the nesting grounds of endangered turtle species. The Mirani Dam provides irrigation, flood prevention and water supply to Gwadar city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5943088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5943088", "title": "Mbalam", "text": "Mbalam\n\nMbalam is a place in Cameroon near the southern border with the Republic of the Congo where there are significant deposits of iron ore. The mining company is Sundance Resources Limited.\n\nThere are two other places in Cameroon with the same name.\n\nA 510 km railway connection to a deepwater port is required to exploit these ore deposits efficiently. Several routes were planned using Quantm software. The railway will start at an elevation of about 650m at the mine, proceed along a fairly level alignment for 350 km, drops steeply for 100 km down to the coastal plain, then traverses that plain for 50 km to the port. The gradients generally favour loaded trains.\n\nIn September 2010, Sundance Resources signed a memorandum of understanding with CRCC China-Africa Construction Ltd, which outlined construction plans for a 490 km railway linking the planned iron ore mines to a proposed port near Lolabé. Another Chinese company, China Harbour Engineering Co Ltd (CHEC), will build the port.\n\nA two-stage development of a mine, railway and port for the cross-border iron ore deposits in Cameroon and Congo is estimated to cost US$7.7 billion.\n\nThe new railway is expected to carry 35 million tonnes of ore per year for 25 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "6977566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6977566", "title": "Mount Catherine", "text": "Mount Catherine\n\nMount Catherine (), locally known as Gabal Katrîne, is the highest mountain in Egypt. It is located near the city of Saint Catherine in the South Sinai Governorate.\nThe name is derived from the Christian tradition that angels transported to this mountain the body of the martyred Saint Catherine of Alexandria. \n\n"}
{"id": "21830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21830", "title": "Nature", "text": "Nature\n\nNature, in the broadest sense, is the natural, physical, or material world or universe. \"Nature\" can refer to the phenomena of the physical world, and also to life in general. The study of nature is a large, if not the only, part of science. Although humans are part of nature, human activity is often understood as a separate category from other natural phenomena.\n\nThe word \"nature\" is derived from the Latin word \"natura\", or \"essential qualities, innate disposition\", and in ancient times, literally meant \"birth\". \"Natura\" is a Latin translation of the Greek word \"physis\" (φύσις), which originally related to the intrinsic characteristics that plants, animals, and other features of the world develop of their own accord. The concept of nature as a whole, the physical universe, is one of several expansions of the original notion; it began with certain core applications of the word φύσις by pre-Socratic philosophers, and has steadily gained currency ever since. This usage continued during the advent of modern scientific method in the last several centuries.\n\nWithin the various uses of the word today, \"nature\" often refers to geology and wildlife. Nature can refer to the general realm of living plants and animals, and in some cases to the processes associated with inanimate objects—the way that particular types of things exist and change of their own accord, such as the weather and geology of the Earth. It is often taken to mean the \"natural environment\" or wilderness—wild animals, rocks, forest, and in general those things that have not been substantially altered by human intervention, or which persist despite human intervention. For example, manufactured objects and human interaction generally are not considered part of nature, unless qualified as, for example, \"human nature\" or \"the whole of nature\". This more traditional concept of natural things which can still be found today implies a distinction between the natural and the artificial, with the artificial being understood as that which has been brought into being by a human consciousness or a human mind. Depending on the particular context, the term \"natural\" might also be distinguished from the or the supernatural.\n\nEarth is the only planet known to support life, and its natural features are the subject of many fields of scientific research. Within the solar system, it is third closest to the sun; it is the largest terrestrial planet and the fifth largest overall. Its most prominent climatic features are its two large polar regions, two relatively narrow temperate zones, and a wide equatorial tropical to subtropical region. Precipitation varies widely with location, from several metres of water per year to less than a millimetre. 71 percent of the Earth's surface is covered by salt-water oceans. The remainder consists of continents and islands, with most of the inhabited land in the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nEarth has evolved through geological and biological processes that have left traces of the original conditions. The outer surface is divided into several gradually migrating tectonic plates. The interior remains active, with a thick layer of plastic mantle and an iron-filled core that generates a magnetic field. This iron core is composed of a solid inner phase, and a fluid outer phase. Convective motion in the core generates electric currents through dynamo action, and these, in turn, generate the geomagnetic field.\n\nThe atmospheric conditions have been significantly altered from the original conditions by the presence of life-forms, which create an ecological balance that stabilizes the surface conditions. Despite the wide regional variations in climate by latitude and other geographic factors, the long-term average global climate is quite stable during interglacial periods, and variations of a degree or two of average global temperature have historically had major effects on the ecological balance, and on the actual geography of the Earth.\n\nGeology is the science and study of the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth. The field of geology encompasses the study of the composition, structure, physical properties, dynamics, and history of Earth materials, and the processes by which they are formed, moved, and changed. The field is a major academic discipline, and is also important for mineral and hydrocarbon extraction, knowledge about and mitigation of natural hazards, some Geotechnical engineering fields, and understanding past climates and environments.\n\nThe geology of an area evolves through time as rock units are deposited and inserted and deformational processes change their shapes and locations.\n\nRock units are first emplaced either by deposition onto the surface or intrude into the overlying rock. Deposition can occur when sediments settle onto the surface of the Earth and later lithify into sedimentary rock, or when as volcanic material such as volcanic ash or lava flows, blanket the surface. Igneous intrusions such as batholiths, laccoliths, dikes, and sills, push upwards into the overlying rock, and crystallize as they intrude.\n\nAfter the initial sequence of rocks has been deposited, the rock units can be deformed and/or metamorphosed. Deformation typically occurs as a result of horizontal shortening, horizontal extension, or side-to-side (strike-slip) motion. These structural regimes broadly relate to convergent boundaries, divergent boundaries, and transform boundaries, respectively, between tectonic plates.\n\nEarth is estimated to have formed 4.54 billion years ago from the solar nebula, along with the Sun and other planets. The moon formed roughly 20 million years later. Initially molten, the outer layer of the Earth cooled, resulting in the solid crust. Outgassing and volcanic activity produced the primordial atmosphere. Condensing water vapor, most or all of which came from ice delivered by comets, produced the oceans and other water sources. The highly energetic chemistry is believed to have produced a self-replicating molecule around 4 billion years ago.\n\nContinents formed, then broke up and reformed as the surface of Earth reshaped over hundreds of millions of years, occasionally combining to make a supercontinent. Roughly 750 million years ago, the earliest known supercontinent Rodinia, began to break apart. The continents later recombined to form Pannotia which broke apart about 540 million years ago, then finally Pangaea, which broke apart about 180 million years ago.\n\nDuring the Neoproterozoic era, freezing temperatures covered much of the Earth in glaciers and ice sheets. This hypothesis has been termed the \"Snowball Earth\", and it is of particular interest as it precedes the Cambrian explosion in which multicellular life forms began to proliferate about 530–540 million years ago.\n\nSince the Cambrian explosion there have been five distinctly identifiable mass extinctions. The last mass extinction occurred some 66 million years ago, when a meteorite collision probably triggered the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs and other large reptiles, but spared small animals such as mammals. Over the past 66 million years, mammalian life diversified.\n\nSeveral million years ago, a species of small African ape gained the ability to stand upright. The subsequent advent of human life, and the development of agriculture and further civilization allowed humans to affect the Earth more rapidly than any previous life form, affecting both the nature and quantity of other organisms as well as global climate. By comparison, the Great Oxygenation Event, produced by the proliferation of algae during the Siderian period, required about 300 million years to culminate.\n\nThe present era is classified as part of a mass extinction event, the Holocene extinction event, the fastest ever to have occurred. Some, such as E. O. Wilson of Harvard University, predict that human destruction of the biosphere could cause the extinction of one-half of all species in the next 100 years. The extent of the current extinction event is still being researched, debated and calculated by biologists.\nThe Earth's atmosphere is a key factor in sustaining the ecosystem. The thin layer of gases that envelops the Earth is held in place by gravity. Air is mostly nitrogen, oxygen, water vapor, with much smaller amounts of carbon dioxide, argon, etc. The atmospheric pressure declines steadily with altitude. The ozone layer plays an important role in depleting the amount of ultraviolet (UV) radiation that reaches the surface. As DNA is readily damaged by UV light, this serves to protect life at the surface. The atmosphere also retains heat during the night, thereby reducing the daily temperature extremes.\n\nTerrestrial weather occurs almost exclusively in the lower part of the atmosphere, and serves as a convective system for redistributing heat. Ocean currents are another important factor in determining climate, particularly the major underwater thermohaline circulation which distributes heat energy from the equatorial oceans to the polar regions. These currents help to moderate the differences in temperature between winter and summer in the temperate zones. Also, without the redistributions of heat energy by the ocean currents and atmosphere, the tropics would be much hotter, and the polar regions much colder.\n\nWeather can have both beneficial and harmful effects. Extremes in weather, such as tornadoes or hurricanes and cyclones, can expend large amounts of energy along their paths, and produce devastation. Surface vegetation has evolved a dependence on the seasonal variation of the weather, and sudden changes lasting only a few years can have a dramatic effect, both on the vegetation and on the animals which depend on its growth for their food.\n\nClimate is a measure of the long-term trends in the weather. Various factors are known to influence the climate, including ocean currents, surface albedo, greenhouse gases, variations in the solar luminosity, and changes to the Earth's orbit. Based on historical records, the Earth is known to have undergone drastic climate changes in the past, including ice ages.\n\nThe climate of a region depends on a number of factors, especially latitude. A latitudinal band of the surface with similar climatic attributes forms a climate region. There are a number of such regions, ranging from the tropical climate at the equator to the polar climate in the northern and southern extremes. Weather is also influenced by the seasons, which result from the Earth's axis being tilted relative to its orbital plane. Thus, at any given time during the summer or winter, one part of the Earth is more directly exposed to the rays of the sun. This exposure alternates as the Earth revolves in its orbit. At any given time, regardless of season, the northern and southern hemispheres experience opposite seasons.\n\nWeather is a chaotic system that is readily modified by small changes to the environment, so accurate weather forecasting is limited to only a few days. Overall, two things are happening worldwide: (1) temperature is increasing on the average; and (2) regional climates have been undergoing noticeable changes.\n\nWater is a chemical substance that is composed of hydrogen and oxygen and is vital for all known forms of life. In typical usage, \"water\" refers only to its liquid form or state, but the substance also has a solid state, ice, and a gaseous state, water vapor, or steam. Water covers 71% of the Earth's surface. On Earth, it is found mostly in oceans and other large bodies of water, with 1.6% of water below ground in aquifers and 0.001% in the air as vapor, clouds, and precipitation. Oceans hold 97% of surface water, glaciers, and polar ice caps 2.4%, and other land surface water such as rivers, lakes, and ponds 0.6%. Additionally, a minute amount of the Earth's water is contained within biological bodies and manufactured products.\n\nAn ocean is a major body of saline water, and a principal component of the hydrosphere. Approximately 71% of the Earth's surface (an area of some 361 million square kilometers) is covered by ocean, a continuous body of water that is customarily divided into several principal oceans and smaller seas. More than half of this area is over deep. Average oceanic salinity is around 35 parts per thousand (ppt) (3.5%), and nearly all seawater has a salinity in the range of 30 to 38 ppt. Though generally recognized as several 'separate' oceans, these waters comprise one global, interconnected body of salt water often referred to as the World Ocean or global ocean. This concept of a global ocean as a continuous body of water with relatively free interchange among its parts is of fundamental importance to oceanography.\n\nThe major oceanic divisions are defined in part by the continents, various archipelagos, and other criteria: these divisions are (in descending order of size) the Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean, the Indian Ocean, the Southern Ocean, and the Arctic Ocean. Smaller regions of the oceans are called seas, gulfs, bays and other names. There are also salt lakes, which are smaller bodies of landlocked saltwater that are not interconnected with the World Ocean. Two notable examples of salt lakes are the Aral Sea and the Great Salt Lake.\n\nA lake (from Latin \"lacus\") is a terrain feature (or physical feature), a body of liquid on the surface of a world that is localized to the bottom of basin (another type of landform or terrain feature; that is, it is not global) and moves slowly if it moves at all. On Earth, a body of water is considered a lake when it is inland, not part of the ocean, is larger and deeper than a pond, and is fed by a river. The only world other than Earth known to harbor lakes is Titan, Saturn's largest moon, which has lakes of ethane, most likely mixed with methane. It is not known if Titan's lakes are fed by rivers, though Titan's surface is carved by numerous river beds. Natural lakes on Earth are generally found in mountainous areas, rift zones, and areas with ongoing or recent glaciation. Other lakes are found in endorheic basins or along the courses of mature rivers. In some parts of the world, there are many lakes because of chaotic drainage patterns left over from the last Ice Age. All lakes are temporary over geologic time scales, as they will slowly fill in with sediments or spill out of the basin containing them.\n\nA pond is a body of standing water, either natural or man-made, that is usually smaller than a lake. A wide variety of man-made bodies of water are classified as ponds, including water gardens designed for aesthetic ornamentation, fish ponds designed for commercial fish breeding, and solar ponds designed to store thermal energy. Ponds and lakes are distinguished from streams via current speed. While currents in streams are easily observed, ponds and lakes possess thermally driven micro-currents and moderate wind driven currents. These features distinguish a pond from many other aquatic terrain features, such as stream pools and tide pools.\n\nA river is a natural watercourse, usually freshwater, flowing toward an ocean, a lake, a sea or another river. In a few cases, a river simply flows into the ground or dries up completely before reaching another body of water. Small rivers may also be called by several other names, including stream, creek, brook, rivulet, and rill; there is no general rule that defines what can be called a river. Many names for small rivers are specific to geographic location; one example is \"Burn\" in Scotland and North-east England. Sometimes a river is said to be larger than a creek, but this is not always the case, due to vagueness in the language. A river is part of the hydrological cycle. Water within a river is generally collected from precipitation through surface runoff, groundwater recharge, springs, and the release of stored water in natural ice and snowpacks (i.e., from glaciers).\n\nA stream is a flowing body of water with a current, confined within a bed and stream banks. In the United States, a stream is classified as a watercourse less than wide. Streams are important as conduits in the water cycle, instruments in groundwater recharge, and they serve as corridors for fish and wildlife migration. The biological habitat in the immediate vicinity of a stream is called a riparian zone. Given the status of the ongoing Holocene extinction, streams play an important corridor role in connecting fragmented habitats and thus in conserving biodiversity. The study of streams and waterways in general involves many branches of inter-disciplinary natural science and engineering, including hydrology, fluvial geomorphology, aquatic ecology, fish biology, riparian ecology, and others.\n\nEcosystems are composed of a variety of abiotic and biotic components that function in an interrelated way. The structure and composition is determined by various environmental factors that are interrelated. Variations of these factors will initiate dynamic modifications to the ecosystem. Some of the more important components are: soil, atmosphere, radiation from the sun, water, and living organisms.\n\nCentral to the ecosystem concept is the idea that living organisms interact with every other element in their local environment. Eugene Odum, a founder of ecology, stated: \"Any unit that includes all of the organisms (ie: the \"community\") in a given area interacting with the physical environment so that a flow of energy leads to clearly defined trophic structure, biotic diversity, and material cycles (i.e.: exchange of materials between living and nonliving parts) within the system is an ecosystem.\" Within the ecosystem, species are connected and dependent upon one another in the food chain, and exchange energy and matter between themselves as well as with their environment. The human ecosystem concept is based on the human/nature dichotomy and the idea that all species are ecologically dependent on each other, as well as with the abiotic constituents of their biotope.\n\nA smaller unit of size is called a microecosystem. For example, a microsystem can be a stone and all the life under it. A \"macroecosystem\" might involve a whole ecoregion, with its drainage basin.\n\nWilderness is generally defined as areas that have not been significantly modified by human activity. Wilderness areas can be found in preserves, estates, farms, conservation preserves, ranches, , national parks, and even in urban areas along rivers, gulches, or otherwise undeveloped areas. Wilderness areas and protected parks are considered important for the survival of certain species, ecological studies, conservation, and solitude. Some nature writers believe wilderness areas are vital for the human spirit and creativity, and some ecologists consider wilderness areas to be an integral part of the Earth's self-sustaining natural ecosystem (the biosphere). They may also preserve historic genetic traits and that they provide habitat for wild flora and fauna that may be difficult or impossible to recreate in zoos, arboretums, or laboratories.\n\nAlthough there is no universal agreement on the definition of life, scientists generally accept that the biological manifestation of life is characterized by organization, metabolism, growth, adaptation, response to stimuli, and reproduction. Life may also be said to be simply the characteristic state of organisms.\n\nProperties common to terrestrial organisms (plants, animals, fungi, protists, archaea, and bacteria) are that they are cellular, carbon-and-water-based with complex organization, having a metabolism, a capacity to grow, respond to stimuli, and reproduce. An entity with these properties is generally considered life. However, not every definition of life considers all of these properties to be essential. Human-made analogs of life may also be considered to be life.\n\nThe biosphere is the part of Earth's outer shell – including land, surface rocks, water, air and the atmosphere – within which life occurs, and which biotic processes in turn alter or transform. From the broadest geophysiological point of view, the biosphere is the global ecological system integrating all living beings and their relationships, including their interaction with the elements of the lithosphere (rocks), hydrosphere (water), and atmosphere (air). The entire Earth contains over 75 billion tons (150 \"trillion\" pounds or about 6.8×10 kilograms) of biomass (life), which lives within various environments within the biosphere.\n\nOver nine-tenths of the total biomass on Earth is plant life, on which animal life depends very heavily for its existence. More than 2 million species of plant and animal life have been identified to date, and estimates of the actual number of existing species range from several million to well over 50 million. The number of individual species of life is constantly in some degree of flux, with new species appearing and others ceasing to exist on a continual basis. The total number of species is in rapid decline.\n\nThe origin of life on Earth is not well understood, but it is known to have occurred at least 3.5 billion years ago, during the hadean or archean eons on a primordial Earth that had a substantially different environment than is found at present. These life forms possessed the basic traits of self-replication and inheritable traits. Once life had appeared, the process of evolution by natural selection resulted in the development of ever-more diverse life forms.\n\nSpecies that were unable to adapt to the changing environment and competition from other life forms became extinct. However, the fossil record retains evidence of many of these older species. Current fossil and DNA evidence shows that all existing species can trace a continual ancestry back to the first primitive life forms.\n\nWhen basic forms of plant life developed the process of photosynthesis the sun's energy could be harvested to create conditions which allowed for more complex life forms. The resultant oxygen accumulated in the atmosphere and gave rise to the ozone layer. The incorporation of smaller cells within larger ones resulted in the development of yet more complex cells called eukaryotes. Cells within colonies became increasingly specialized, resulting in true multicellular organisms. With the ozone layer absorbing harmful ultraviolet radiation, life colonized the surface of Earth.\n\nThe first form of life to develop on the Earth were microbes, and they remained the only form of life until about a billion years ago when multi-cellular organisms began to appear. Microorganisms are single-celled organisms that are generally microscopic, and smaller than the human eye can see. They include Bacteria, Fungi, Archaea, and Protista.\n\nThese life forms are found in almost every location on the Earth where there is liquid water, including in the Earth's interior.\nTheir reproduction is both rapid and profuse. The combination of a high mutation rate and a horizontal gene transfer ability makes them highly adaptable, and able to survive in new environments, including outer space. They form an essential part of the planetary ecosystem. However, some microorganisms are pathogenic and can post health risk to other organisms.\n\nOriginally Aristotle divided all living things between plants, which generally do not move fast enough for humans to notice, and animals. In Linnaeus' system, these became the kingdoms Vegetabilia (later Plantae) and Animalia. Since then, it has become clear that the Plantae as originally defined included several unrelated groups, and the fungi and several groups of algae were removed to new kingdoms. However, these are still often considered plants in many contexts. Bacterial life is sometimes included in flora, and some classifications use the term \"bacterial flora\" separately from \"plant flora\".\n\nAmong the many ways of classifying plants are by regional floras, which, depending on the purpose of study, can also include \"fossil flora\", remnants<br> of plant life from a previous era. People in many regions and countries take great pride in their individual arrays of characteristic flora, which can vary widely across the globe due to differences in climate and terrain.\n\nRegional floras commonly are divided into categories such as \"native flora\" and \"agricultural and garden flora\", the lastly mentioned of which are intentionally grown and cultivated. Some types of \"native flora\" actually have been introduced centuries ago by people migrating from one region or continent to another, and become an integral part of the native, or natural flora of the place to which they were introduced. This is an example of how human interaction with nature can blur the boundary of what is considered nature.\n\nAnother category of plant has historically been carved out for \"weeds\". Though the term has fallen into disfavor among botanists as a formal way to categorize \"useless\" plants, the informal use of the word \"weeds\" to describe those plants that are deemed worthy of elimination is illustrative of the general tendency of people and societies to seek to alter or shape the course of nature. Similarly, animals are often categorized in ways such as \"domestic\", \"farm animals\", \"wild animals\", \"pests\", etc. according to their relationship to human life.\n\nAnimals as a category have several characteristics that generally set them apart from other living things. Animals are eukaryotic and usually multicellular (although see Myxozoa), which separates them from bacteria, archaea, and most protists. They are heterotrophic, generally digesting food in an internal chamber, which separates them from plants and algae. They are also distinguished from plants, algae, and fungi by lacking cell walls.\n\nWith a few exceptions—most notably the two phyla consisting of sponges and placozoans—animals have bodies that are differentiated into tissues. These include muscles, which are able to contract and control locomotion, and a nervous system, which sends and processes signals. There is also typically an internal digestive chamber. The eukaryotic cells possessed by all animals are surrounded by a characteristic extracellular matrix composed of collagen and elastic glycoproteins. This may be calcified to form structures like shells, bones, and spicules, a framework upon which cells can move about and be reorganized during development and maturation, and which supports the complex anatomy required for mobility.\n\nAlthough humans comprise only a minuscule proportion of the total living biomass on Earth, the human effect on nature is disproportionately large. Because of the extent of human influence, the boundaries between what humans regard as nature and \"made environments\" is not clear cut except at the extremes. Even at the extremes, the amount of natural environment that is free of discernible human influence is diminishing at an increasingly rapid pace.\n\nThe development of technology by the human race has allowed the greater exploitation of natural resources and has helped to alleviate some of the risk from natural hazards. In spite of this progress, however, the fate of human civilization remains closely linked to changes in the environment. There exists a highly complex feedback loop between the use of advanced technology and changes to the environment that are only slowly becoming understood. Man-made threats to the Earth's natural environment include pollution, deforestation, and disasters such as oil spills. Humans have contributed to the extinction of many plants and animals.\n\nHumans employ nature for both leisure and economic activities. The acquisition of natural resources for industrial use remains a sizable component of the world's economic system. Some activities, such as hunting and fishing, are used for both sustenance and leisure, often by different people. Agriculture was first adopted around the 9th millennium BCE. Ranging from food production to energy, nature influences economic wealth.\n\nAlthough early humans gathered uncultivated plant materials for food and employed the medicinal properties of vegetation for healing, most modern human use of plants is through agriculture. The clearance of large tracts of land for crop growth has led to a significant reduction in the amount available of forestation and wetlands, resulting in the loss of habitat for many plant and animal species as well as increased erosion.\n\nBeauty in nature has historically been a prevalent theme in art and books, filling large sections of libraries and bookstores. That nature has been depicted and celebrated by so much art, photography, poetry, and other literature shows the strength with which many people associate nature and beauty. Reasons why this association exists, and what the association consists of, are studied by the branch of philosophy called aesthetics. Beyond certain basic characteristics that many philosophers agree about to explain what is seen as beautiful, the opinions are virtually endless. Nature and wildness have been important subjects in various eras of world history. An early tradition of landscape art began in China during the Tang Dynasty (618–907). The tradition of representing nature \"as it is\" became one of the aims of Chinese painting and was a significant influence in Asian art.\n\nAlthough natural wonders are celebrated in the Psalms and the Book of Job, wilderness portrayals in art became more prevalent in the 1800s, especially in the works of the Romantic movement. British artists John Constable and J. M. W. Turner turned their attention to capturing the beauty of the natural world in their paintings. Before that, paintings had been primarily of religious scenes or of human beings. William Wordsworth's poetry described the wonder of the natural world, which had formerly been viewed as a threatening place. Increasingly the valuing of nature became an aspect of Western culture. This artistic movement also coincided with the Transcendentalist movement in the Western world. A common classical idea of beautiful art involves the word mimesis, the imitation of nature. Also in the realm of ideas about beauty in nature is that the perfect is implied through perfect mathematical forms and more generally by patterns in nature. As David Rothenburg writes, \"The beautiful is the root of science and the goal of art, the highest possibility that humanity can ever hope to see\".\n\nSome fields of science see nature as matter in motion, obeying certain laws of nature which science seeks to understand. For this reason the most fundamental science is generally understood to be \"physics\" – the name for which is still recognizable as meaning that it is the study of nature.\n\nMatter is commonly defined as the substance of which physical objects are composed. It constitutes the observable universe. The visible components of the universe are now believed to compose only 4.9 percent of the total mass. The remainder is believed to consist of 26.8 percent cold dark matter and 68.3 percent dark energy. The exact arrangement of these components is still unknown and is under intensive investigation by physicists.\n\nThe behavior of matter and energy throughout the observable universe appears to follow well-defined physical laws. These laws have been employed to produce cosmological models that successfully explain the structure and the evolution of the universe we can observe. The mathematical expressions of the laws of physics employ a set of twenty physical constants that appear to be static across the observable universe. The values of these constants have been carefully measured, but the reason for their specific values remains a mystery.\n\nOuter space, also simply called \"space\", refers to the relatively empty regions of the universe outside the atmospheres of celestial bodies. \"Outer\" space is used to distinguish it from airspace (and terrestrial locations). There is no discrete boundary between the Earth's atmosphere and space, as the atmosphere gradually attenuates with increasing altitude. Outer space within the Solar System is called interplanetary space, which passes over into interstellar space at what is known as the heliopause.\n\nOuter space is sparsely filled with several dozen types of organic molecules discovered to date by microwave spectroscopy, blackbody radiation left over from the big bang and the origin of the universe, and cosmic rays, which include ionized atomic nuclei and various subatomic particles. There is also some gas, plasma and dust, and small meteors. Additionally, there are signs of human life in outer space today, such as material left over from previous manned and unmanned launches which are a potential hazard to spacecraft. Some of this debris re-enters the atmosphere periodically.\n\nAlthough the Earth is the only body within the solar system known to support life, evidence suggests that in the distant past the planet Mars possessed bodies of liquid water on the surface. For a brief period in Mars' history, it may have also been capable of forming life. At present though, most of the water remaining on Mars is frozen.\nIf life exists at all on Mars, it is most likely to be located underground where liquid water can still exist.\n\nConditions on the other terrestrial planets, Mercury and Venus, appear to be too harsh to support life as we know it. But it has been conjectured that Europa, the fourth-largest moon of Jupiter, may possess a sub-surface ocean of liquid water and could potentially host life.\n\nAstronomers have started to discover extrasolar Earth analogs – planets that lie in the habitable zone of space surrounding a star, and therefore could possibly host life as we know it.\n\nMedia:\nOrganizations:\nPhilosophy:\n\n"}
{"id": "57729289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57729289", "title": "Nworie River", "text": "Nworie River\n\nThe Nworie River is a river that passes through Owerri and drains into the Otamiri River at Nekede. The length of the river from its source to its confluence is 9.2 km. The river is heavily polluted; in 2017 the local government issues warnings against using water from the river.\n"}
{"id": "16278542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278542", "title": "Outline of Chile", "text": "Outline of Chile\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Chile:\n\nChile – country in South America occupying a long, narrow strip of land between the Andes mountains to the east and the Pacific Ocean to the west. Prior to the arrival of the Spanish in the 16th century, northern and central Chile was under Inca rule while independent Mapuche inhabited south-central Chile. Chile declared its independence from Spain on 12 February 1818. Today Chile is one of South America's most stable and prosperous nations, a recognized middle power, and an emerging economy.\n\n\nGeography of Chile\n\n\n\nList of ecoregions in Chile\n\nAdministrative divisions of Chile\n\nList of cities in Chile\n\nDemographics of Chile\n\nPolitics of Chile\n\nGovernment of Chile\n\n\n\nCourt system of Chile\n\nForeign relations of Chile\n\nThe Republic of Chile is a member of:\n\nLaw of Chile\n\nMilitary of Chile\n\nLocal government in Chile\n\nHistory of Chile\n\nCulture of Chile\n\n\n\nEconomy of Chile\n\nEducation in Chile\n\nChile\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31683475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31683475", "title": "Outline of the Byzantine Empire", "text": "Outline of the Byzantine Empire\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the Byzantine Empire:\n\nByzantine Empire (or Byzantium) – the Constantinople-centred Roman Empire of the Middle Ages. It is also referred to as the Eastern Roman Empire, primarily in the context of Late Antiquity, while the Roman Empire was still administered with separate eastern and western political centres. In its own time, there was no such thing as \"the Byzantine Empire,\" there was just the ongoing Roman Empire; \"Byzantine Empire\" is a scholarly term of convenience to differentiate the empire from its earlier existence during classical antiquity before the western half collapsed \"(see decline of the Roman Empire)\". Its citizens continued to refer to their empire as the Roman Empire (, \"Basileia Rhōmaiōn\"; ) or Romania (). After the Western Roman Empire fragmented and collapsed in the 5th century, the eastern half continued to thrive, existing for an additional thousand years until it fell to the Ottoman Turks in 1453. During much of its existence, the empire was the most powerful economic, cultural, and military force in Europe.\n\nThe Byzantium Empire can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPolitical institutions of the Byzantine Empire\n\nByzantine law\n\nMilitary of the Byzantine Empire\n\n\n\nHistory of the Byzantine Empire\n\n\n\n Byzantine culture\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28289457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28289457", "title": "Protected areas of Pakistan", "text": "Protected areas of Pakistan\n\nAs of present, there are around 157 protected areas in Pakistan that are recognized by IUCN.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "5298959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5298959", "title": "Public open space", "text": "Public open space\n\nPublic open space is often referred to by urban planners and landscape architects by the acronym 'POS'. Varied interpretations of the term are possible.\n\n'Public' can mean:\n\n'Open' can mean:\n\nDepending on which of these definitions are adopted, any of the following could be called Public Open Space:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37021194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37021194", "title": "Pullen Island Conservation Park", "text": "Pullen Island Conservation Park\n\nPullen Island Conservation Park is a protected area includes all of Pullen Island about south of Port Elliot in South Australia and about south of Adelaide. The park was proclaimed in 1972 under \"National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972\" replacing earlier protected area status as a Fauna Conservation Reserve which was proclaimed in 1967. The protected area status exists to protect the island as a breeding area for sea birds such as little penguins and silver gulls. The conservation park is classified as an IUCN Category IA protected area.\n\n"}
{"id": "11686251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11686251", "title": "Relative bearing", "text": "Relative bearing\n\nIn nautical navigation the relative bearing of an object is the clockwise angle from the heading of the vessel to a straight line drawn from the observation station on the vessel to the object.\n\nThe relative bearing is measured with a pelorus or other optical and electronic aids to navigation such as a periscope, sonar system, and radar systems. Since World War II, relative bearings of such diverse point sources have been and are calibrated carefully to one another. The United States Navy operates a special range off Puerto Rico and another on the west coast to perform such systems integration. Relative bearings then serve as the baseline data for converting relative directional data into true bearings (N-S-E-W, relative to the Earth's true geography). By contrast, Compass bearings have a varying error factor at differing locations about the globe, and are less reliable than the compensated or true bearings.\n\nThe measurement of relative bearings of fixed landmarks and other navigational aids is useful for the navigator because this information can be used on the nautical chart together with simple geometrical techniques to aid in determining the position of the vessel and/or its speed, course, etc.\n\nThe measurement of relative bearings of other vessels and objects in movement is useful to the navigator in avoiding the danger of collision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32828068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32828068", "title": "Telephone numbers in New Caledonia", "text": "Telephone numbers in New Caledonia\n\nNational Significant Numbers (NSN): six digits\n\nFormat: 0888816549\n\n"}
{"id": "33039729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33039729", "title": "Telephone numbers in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands", "text": "Telephone numbers in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands\n\nTelephone numbers in the Cocos Islands use ranges owned by Australia.\n\nCountry Code: +61 8 9162 (partial)<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 0011<br>\nTrunk Prefix: 0\n\nFormat +61 8 9162 XXXX\n\nCocos Island numbers formerly used the +672 country code until 1994, when they were migrated to +61.\n"}
{"id": "32833696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32833696", "title": "Telephone numbers in the Cook Islands", "text": "Telephone numbers in the Cook Islands\n\nCountry Code: +682<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 00\n\nNational Significant Numbers (NSN): five (5) digits\n\nFormat: +682 XX XXX\n\n"}
{"id": "36876322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36876322", "title": "The Pinnacles (Dorset)", "text": "The Pinnacles (Dorset)\n\nThe Pinnacles are two chalk formations, including a stack and a stump, located near Handfast Point, on the Isle of Purbeck in Dorset, southern England.\n\nThe Pinnacles lie directly east of Studland, approximately 200 metres south of Old Harry Rocks and about 4 kilometres northeast of Swanage. The chalk headlands of the Ballard Downs are owned by the National Trust. The rocks can be viewed from the Dorset section of the South West Coastal Path.\n\nThe downlands of Ballard Down are formed of chalk with some bands of flint, and were formed approximately 66 million years ago. The bands of stone have been gradually eroded over the centuries, some of the earlier stacks having fallen while new ones have been formed by the breaching of narrow isthmuses. Across the water to the east the Needles on the Isle of Wight are usually visible. These are also part of the same chalk band and only a few thousand years ago were connected to Ballard Down.\n\nTo form the stacks, the sea gradually eroded along the joints and bedding planes where the softer chalk meets harder bedrock of the rock formations to create a cave. This eventually eroded right through to create an arch. The arch subsequently collapsed to leave the stacks called The Pinnacles.\n\n"}
{"id": "44191315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44191315", "title": "The Tango Singer", "text": "The Tango Singer\n\nThe Tango Singer is a novel by Tomás Eloy Martínez, which was translated to English by Anne McLean. The plot about a New York student that travels to Buenos Aires in 2001, amid the riots of the time, and searches for a tango singer.\n"}
{"id": "48586523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48586523", "title": "Timeline of Ljubljana", "text": "Timeline of Ljubljana\n\nThe following is a timeline of the history of the city of Ljubljana, Slovenia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the Slovene Wikipedia and German Wikipedia.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43194080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43194080", "title": "Timeline of Port Harcourt", "text": "Timeline of Port Harcourt\n\nThis is a timeline of the history of Port Harcourt, the capital of Rivers State, Nigeria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47483540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47483540", "title": "Veer Lorik Stone", "text": "Veer Lorik Stone\n\nVeer Lorik Stone, also known in Hindi as \"Veer Lorik Patthar\" (English \"veer\";brave, \"patthar\";stone), is situated around 5 km from Robertsganj on Markundi Hill, in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is a symbol of love and bravery of Lorik and Manjari, the main characters of the local folklore ‘Loriki’. According to the folk tale, Veer Lorik cut this stone, using his sword, in a single stroke, as proof of his true love. Several folk songs, sung by native folksingers, are based on Loriki. Govardhan Puja, a Hindu festival, is celebrated here every year.\n\nDuring the 5th century, there was a state called Agori along the Son River (now located in Sonbhadra district). Molagat, the ruling king of the state, despite being a very good king, was jealous of a Yadav man named Mehra because of the power he wielded. One day King Molagat invited Mehra to a gambling match. It was proposed that the winner of the gambling game will rule over the state. Mehra accepted the king's proposal and they began gambling. The king lost everything and had to leave his kingdom. Seeing the plight of the king, Lord Brahma came as a disguised monk and gave him some coins, assuring him that once he plays a game with those coins, his rule would return.The king obeyed, and won. Mehra lost six times and gambled everything away, including his wife, who was pregnant. In the seventh time, he lost his wife's womb as well. But the king seemed to show generosity towards Mehra. He said that if the upcoming baby is a boy then he will work in the stables and if it is girl, she will be appointed in the service of the Queen.\n\nMehra's seventh child was born as a girl, and named Manjari. When the King discovered this, he sent soldiers to bring Manjari to him. But Manjari's mother refused to part with her daughter. Instead, she sent a message to the king that he would have to kill Manjari's husband if he wanted to take her with him.\n\nHence, Manjari's parents were anxious to find a suitor for Manjari who could defeat the king after the wedding. Manjari asked her parents to go to the place of the people named Balia where they will find a youngster named Veer Lorik. He was her lover in a previous life, and also capable of defeating the king.\n\nManjari and Lorik's fathers met and the marriage gets fixed. Lorik comes over with half a million people for the wedding, to marry Manjari. \nWhen they reached the bank of the river son, the king sent his troops to fight Lorik and capture Manjari.\nLorik seemed to be defeated in the war. Manjari, being an extraordinary girl, goes to Veer Lorik and tells him that there is a village named Gothani near the Agori Fort . She tells him that there is a temple of Lord Shiva in that village and if he goes there and prays to the god, victory will be his.\n\nLorik does what Manjari said and wins the war so the both married each other. Before leaving the threshold of the village, Manjari tells Lorik to do something great so that the people remember that they loved each other to such an extent.\nVeer Lorik asked Manjari that what must he do so that it becomes a symbol of true love and no loving couple would ever return disappointed from here.\nManjari, pointing at a stone, asked Lorik to cut the stone with the same sword he used to kill the King. Lorik did the same but there was a new problem; the stone got cut in two pieces but a part of it fell down from the mountain, leaving only one piece of the stone there\n\nManjari asked Lorik to find the fallen stone and place it with the firm one, so that both the pieces share the same space. Lorik did the same and made the Sign of true love, \"Veer Lorik Stone\", to stand there forever.\n\nDuring Govardhan Puja, many couples come here to pray for everlasting love, like that of Veer Lorik and Manjari. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "34287484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34287484", "title": "Victor-Amédée Barbié du Bocage", "text": "Victor-Amédée Barbié du Bocage\n\nVictor-Amédée Barbié du Bocage (28 January 1832 – 11 October 1890) was a French geographer.\n"}
{"id": "1808847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1808847", "title": "Volcán Barú", "text": "Volcán Barú\n\nThe Volcán Barú (also Volcán de Chiriquí) is an active stratovolcano and the tallest mountain in Panama, at high. It lies about 35 km off the border of Costa Rica.\n\nDue to its height and the narrowness of the isthmus of Panama, it is possible (though relatively rare) to see both the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea from Volcán Barú's peak on a clear day.\n\nThe small town of Volcán at the base of Volcán Barú sits on the remnants of a huge lahar that appears to have breached the caldera. A small river has eroded the lahar exposing an ancient forest below dated to about 1000 years old (Stewart, pers. communication).\n\nVolcán Barú is surrounded by a fertile area of cool highlands drained by the Chiriquí Viejo and Caldera Rivers. The towns of Volcán and Cerro Punta can be found on its western side, while Boquete is on the eastern flank.\n\nThe occasional fall of hail or ice pellets has been reported on the summit, where the minimum temperature can be below 0 °C (32 °F) and the formation of frost is frequent during the dry season. The peak is host to a large installation of broadcast towers.\n\nDe Boer et al. were the first to show that El Barú volcano is active and part of the extension of the Central American Volcanic Arc in Panama. Further detailed work on the geochemistry of the lavas from El Barú and other volcanoes in Panama was completed by Defant et al. They substantiated, based on geochemistry, that the lavas were derived by subduction (calc-alkaline). Radiometric dates also showed that the volcanism falls into two groups that range from 20 million years to recent. They also showed that the youngest volcanism consists primarily of adakites (partial melts from the subducted slab) whereas the older volcanism is normal calc-alkaline lavas.\n\nIn 2006, an earthquake swarm was registered in the Volcán Barú area. This was not the first one; researchers cite at least three other seismic events of the same nature recorded in the recent past (1930, 1965, 1985).\n\nIn 2007, the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), in cooperation with Panama's Science, Technology and Innovation Secretariat (SENACYT) and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), published a study on different aspects of Volcán Barú. The 33-page report outlined potential hazard areas, rock composition, and areas affected by previous eruptions; there is evidence that during the last eruption, which occurred in the 16th century, the debris avalanche deposits covered a volume of 20–30 km³, reaching as far as the Pacific Ocean (the largest documented in Central America and nearly 10 times the area covered by the Mt. St. Helens debris avalanche in 1980).\n\nData collected at several locations from four previous eruptions which occurred during the last 1600 years indicate that a new eruption would last several years, putting at risk population and costly infrastructure in the areas surrounding the volcano. Typical events during such volcanic episodes include pyroclastic flows, super-heated gas clouds rapidly descending the volcano’s east flank, conceivably reaching as far as Boquete, Alto Boquete, and the Caldera River, and fallout of ash and other particles ranging in size from dust to 1-meter blocks, known as tephra, causing fires, roof collapses, water contamination, crop damage and eye and lung irritation, especially among elders and infants. A third type of event, mud and debris flows, known as lahars, create landslides, obstruct rivers courses, and could have long-term effects in the zone. The severity of these events is directly related to the lava flows and their interaction with underground water deposits.\n\nA comprehensive set of maps is included with the study, clearly showing the most likely affected areas in Boquete, Volcán, Bambito and other towns in vicinity of the Volcán Barú. The study recommends local authorities should make the population aware of the potential risks, and create a response system in preparation for the eventual onset of an eruptive episode.\n\nThe volcano was declared Volcán Barú National Park in 1976, with an area of . It is a part of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor. Fauna include the black guan, black-and-white hawk-eagle, Underwood's water mouse, volcano junco, wrenthrush, and yellow-thighed finch. Over 250 species of birds have been identified within the park, and all five species of big cats live here as well. The national park protects a range of habitat, including humid montane forests, low humid montane forests, and montane rainforests.\n\nThe park's most popular hiking trail is the Sendero Los Quetzales (Los Quetzales Trail), which connects Boquete with Cerro Punta and wraps around the side of the volcano. The trail takes around 6 hours to hike. There is another trail to the top of the volcano, but this is long, steep and strenuous. You can, however, see both the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea from the summit on a clear day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "513692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=513692", "title": "Water garden", "text": "Water garden\n\nWater gardens, also known as aquatic gardens, are a type of water feature. They can be defined as any interior or exterior landscape or architectural element whose primary purpose is to house, display, or propagate a particular species or variety of aquatic plant. The primary focus is on plants, but they will sometimes also house ornamental fish, in which case the feature will be a fish pond.\n\nWater gardening is gardening that is concerned with growing plants adapted to pools and ponds. Although water gardens can be almost any size or depth, they are typically small and relatively shallow, generally less than twenty inches (50 cm) in depth. This is because most aquatic plants are depth sensitive and require a specific water depth in order to thrive. The particular species inhabiting each water garden will ultimately determine the actual surface area and depth required.\n\nWhen the aquatic flora and fauna are balanced, an aquatic ecosystem is created that will support sustainable water quality and clarity. Elements such as fountains, statues, waterfalls, boulders, underwater lighting, lining treatments, edging details, watercourses, and in-water and bankside planting can add visual interest and help to integrate the water garden with the local landscape and environment.\n\nWater gardens, and water features in general, have been a part of public and private gardens since ancient Persian gardens and Chinese gardens. For instance, the (c. 304) \"Nanfang Caomu Zhuang\" records cultivating Chinese spinach on floating gardens. Water features have been present and well represented in every era and in every culture that has included gardens in their landscape and architectural environments. Up until the rise of the industrial age, when the modern water pump was introduced, water was not recirculated but was diverted from rivers and springs into the water garden, from which it exited into agricultural fields or natural watercourses. Historically, water features were used to enable plant and fish production both for food purposes and for ornamental aesthetics.\n\nThough the term \"water garden\" is normally used to describe a particular type of natural or man-made water feature that is used for a relatively specific purpose, there are many other types, styles and designs of water feature.\n\nThe sixteenth century in Europe saw a renewed interest in Greek thought and philosophy, including the works of Hero of Alexandria about hydraulics and pneumatics. His devices, such as temple doors operated by invisible weights or flowing liquids, and mechanical singing birds powered by steam, motivated several European palaces to create similar clever devices to enhance their public image.\n\nIn Italy several royal houses constructed large water gardens incorporating mechanical devices in water settings. The best-known is the Villa d'Este at Tivoli, constructed in 1550 AD. A hill cascaded with many fountains and grottoes, some with water-driven figures that moved or spouted water. Popularity spread across Europe with the well-known water garden at Hellbrunn Palace built with many water-powered human and animal performing figures and puppet theaters, and folly fountains that erupted without notice to surprise visitors.\nOn a constructed stream, placing rocks in the path of the water makes small patterns, rapids and waterfalls. The rocks disrupt the waterflow, causing splashing and bubbles that can make pleasant sounds and micro-habitats for plants, fish, and wildlife. Well-placed rocks can create splashing water that adds oxygen to prevent hypoxia: the more bubbles, the more dissolved oxygen in the water.\n\nWater garden plants are divided into three main categories: submerged, marginal, and floating.\n\nSome areas of the United States do not allow certain of these plants to be sold or kept, as they have become invasive species in warmer areas of the country, such as Florida and California.\n\nAlgae are found in almost all ponds. There are hundreds of species of algae that can grow in garden ponds, but they are usually noticed only when they become abundant. Algae often grow in very high densities in ponds because of the high nutrient levels that are typical of garden ponds. Generally, algae attaches itself to the sides of the pond and remains innocuous. Some species of algae, such as \"blanket weed\", can grow up to a foot a day under ideal conditions and can rapidly clog a garden pond. On the other hand, free floating algae are microscopic and are what cause pond water to appear green. Blanket weed, although unsightly, is actually a sign that the water is clean and well-balanced. Green water (free floating algae) means there are too many nutrients in the water, usually from rotting vegetation or too many fish for the space. Killing the free floating algae with chemicals will often cause it to die, rot, and then make the problem even worse as more nutrients enter the water. Adding more floating or submerged (unpotted) plants can help with the green water, as they can take the nutrients out of the water. There are also filters that can be installed to remove the nutrients and all types of algae from the water. Many ponds naturally go green early in the spring and then clear up.\n\nOften the reason for having a pond in a garden is to keep fish, often koi, though many people keep goldfish. Both are hardy, colorful fish which require no special heating, provided the pond is located in an area which does not have extremes of temperature that would affect the fish. If fish are kept, pumps and filtration devices are usually needed in order to keep enough oxygen in the water to support them. In winter, a small heater may need to be used in cold climates to keep the water from freezing solid. Examples of common pond fish include:\n\n\n\nSmall aquatic snails are usually found in ponds that contain plants. Some people purchase apple snails to keep in their water garden. \"Melantho snails\" of the genus \"Lymnaea\" are also used.\n\nPonds located in suburban and rural areas often attract amphibians such as Common Frogs and Fire Salamanders and reptiles such as turtles, lizards, and snakes.\n\n\nGarden ponds can attract attention from predators such as (in North America) raccoons, herons, snakes, and domestic cats. These predators can be a danger to fish. Owners of koi are often particularly careful to create protected areas as some varieties are very expensive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17841869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17841869", "title": "Övre Rudasjön", "text": "Övre Rudasjön\n\nÖvre Rudasjön (Swedish for \"Upper Crucian carp Lake\"), or Övre Rudan for short, is a lake in Haninge Municipality, 18 km (11 mi) south of central Stockholm, Sweden. Forming part of the Tyresån Lake System, its major inflow comes from lakes Nedre Rudasjön (\"Lower Crucian carp Lake\") and Trylen to the south, while its outflow passes over Dammträsk into Drevviken to the north.\n\nThe tall buildings of Handen commercial centre along the eastern shore of the lake contrast the dense forest of the Rudan Open-air Area on the opposite shore. The proximity to the commuter rail station at Handen, makes the lake easily accessible to a large number of people, while the forests surrounding it makes it attractive to open-air lovers. It is used for bathing in summers and cross-country skiing in winters.\n\nCompared to other lakes in the Tyresån Lake System, levels of phosphorus in the lake are moderate.\n\nWith are 28 species of vascular plants by the lake and 1 species of Stoneworth in it, the lake fauna is considered relatively rich in species.\n\n"}
