{"id": "999483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=999483", "title": "1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games", "text": "1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games\n\nThe 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games were held in Kingston, Jamaica, from 4 to 13 August 1966. This was the first time that the Games had been held outside the so-called White Dominions. They were followed by the 1966 Commonwealth Paraplegic Games for wheelchair athletes. Jamaica remains the only host nation of a Commonwealth Games that did not win at least one gold medal in its own games.\n\nKingston was elected host in Rome, Italy at the 1960 Summer Olympics.\n\n34 teams were represented at the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games.(Teams competing for the first time are shown in bold).\n\n110 x4 men\n\n"}
{"id": "171795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171795", "title": "1974 in sports", "text": "1974 in sports\n\n1974 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMen's professional\nMen's amateur\nWomen's professional\n\n\nSteeplechases\nFlat races\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23954553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23954553", "title": "1979–80 Qatar Stars League", "text": "1979–80 Qatar Stars League\n\nStatistics of Qatar Stars League in season 1979/1980.\n\nAl-Sadd Sports Club won the championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "26172649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26172649", "title": "1998 Guam Men's Soccer League", "text": "1998 Guam Men's Soccer League\n\nStatistics of Guam League in the 1998 season.\n\nAnderson Soccer Club won the championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "4665603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4665603", "title": "Air ball", "text": "Air ball\n\nIn basketball, an air ball is an unblocked shot which misses the basket, the rim, and the backboard entirely.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary cites earliest printed use of \"air ball\" in a 29 January 1967 article from the (Hayward, Calif.) Daily Review, which reads: \"Cal State, four times lofting air balls at an orange basket that may as well have been painted invisible.\" \n\nAn air ball by an opposing player during a competitive game will usually prompt fans (primarily in the college game) present to chant “Aiiiir ball! Aiir ball!” repeatedly in a continuous drone to humiliate the shooter. Since the 1980s, it has become common to restart the chant the next time the shooter touches the ball.\n\n"}
{"id": "21351370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21351370", "title": "Albanian Basketball Association", "text": "Albanian Basketball Association\n\nThe Albanian Basketball Assoaciation (FSHB) () is the head governing body for the sport of professional basketball in Albania. It is the organiser of the Albanian Basketball League, Women Albanian Basketball League, Republic's Cup and the Albanian Basketball Supercup. It is also the organiser of the Albania national basketball team.\n\nBy the end of 1945, Albania had no structures or persons in charge to deal directly with the basketball problems. This became possible only when Albania was founded Sports Federation in September 1945, when it was created at the technical committees, dealing with the design of sporting calendar and organizing national activities. They were organized into three sections. One of them was that of sports games, which was part of sportve Inspector Manual, covering, among other things, basketball. With this setup work became possible to have a structure and a person directly in charge of the basketball problems. \n\nIn this way the conditions were met for the creation in 1946 of the Albanian Basketball Federation (FSHB). Now our country had a specialized institution that followed and led the development of the Albanian basketball in the country, but also formally represent our country in foreign relations for basketball, but their connections abroad were still held by the Albanian Sports Federation, which kept ties with federations international. Basketball Federation at that time functioned as a genuine federation, because the missing bodies that such a federation and had the powers it now has. In 1947, only a year after its creation, ASF joined the International Basketball Federation (FIBA). Deserves to highlight the fact that it was one of the 48 federations prior to affiliated national in FIBA since its thememelimi in 1932, 211 such that it has now, which shows that basketball in our country known and played much more see in many other countries.\n\nThe Albanian Basketball Association has four main offices which are:\n\nThe Albanian Basketball Association is supported by the Albanian Government but is independent from the Ministry of Sports and has a considerable economical autonomy from it. Current chairman of the Albanian Basketball Association is Avni Ponari while members of the Director's Board are:\n\n\nAlbanian federation on Eurobasket.com\n"}
{"id": "46876633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46876633", "title": "Azerbaijan women's national basketball team", "text": "Azerbaijan women's national basketball team\n\nThe Azerbaijan women's national basketball team represents the Azerbaijan in international women's basketball competitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47367991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47367991", "title": "BC Delikatesas", "text": "BC Delikatesas\n\nBC „Delikatesas“ is a professional Joniškis, Lithuania basketball club, currently playing in National Basketball League.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42207026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42207026", "title": "Bernd Pansold", "text": "Bernd Pansold\n\nBernd Pansold (born 3 April 1942 in Zwickau) is a German doctor and practitioner of sports medicine. From 1968 to 1990 he was the team doctor of East German sports club SC Dynamo Berlin, and from 1971 was an unofficial member of the East German Ministry for State Security (Stasi) under the alias Jürgen Wendt. After the reunification of Germany, Pansold worked for Austrian Sports Centre in Obertauern as the medic for all winter sports athletes. In 1998 Pansold was convicted by the Landgericht Berlin for the doping of underage persons in nine cases, which led to a fine; Pansold was then released by the Austrian Ski Association (ÖSV) from his position. Since 2003 Bernd Pansold has been active working for Red Bull GmbH as the director of the company's own Diagnostic- and Training center, in which professional athletes associated with the company Red Bull are attended to.\n\nBernd Pansold was hired in 1968 from the Stasi supported sports club and only four years later was promoted to Deputy Head of Performance Medicine. In 1982, he became the Head of the Dynamo Sports Medicine. In his function Pansold was responsible for various doping practices. In 1975, he was responsible for the distribution of recipes for doping products to doctors who were under his guidance. The former East German national swimmer, victim of his practices and current sportsjournalist Raik Hannemann later described: \"He was the chief methodologist at Dynamo, not only for swimming, but also other sports and always involving doping. Dynamo were exempt from the police and the Stasi under the regime. Under his rule the other team doctors of lower rank would follow in a militant fashion. He is the main culprit for doping in Berlin sports, especially at Dynamo.\n\nAccording to former secret Stasi-documents and testaments of witnesses regarding Pansold, he had been involved in the creation of the State lead doping program in the early seventies. The application of anabolic Steroids as well as Pansolds involvement in the research group \"Zusätzliche Leistungsreserve\" (English: Additional Performance Reserve) at the Forschungsinstitut für Körperkultur und Sport (FKS) in 1975 had come to light, in which the enhancement and optimization of anabolic doping was intended. In that same year Pansold himself reported in one of his IM-reports titled \"flächendeckende Anwendung anaboler Steroide an Teilnehmer der Zentralen Kinder- und Jugendspartakiade\" (English: Widespread use of anabolic steroids to participants of the Central Children's and Youth sports divisions). There are several more recollections and reports of his self composed reports about training- and competition doping at World championships and Olympic games, amongst others such products as the State sponsored VEB Jenapharm produced sexual hormone Testosterone as well as Amphetamines such as Pervitin, which were distributed to female athletes as well. In some parts of his IM-reports Pansold even reports that those involved were aware of their \"criminal acts\" and of the long term consequences to health of the subjects, which was already noticeable upon consumption.\n\nIn regards to the work-up of State sponsored doping in East Germany and several complaints of affected athletes, who were often treated to such drugs without their own knowing, Pansold was one of six involved doctors who were accused in a process in the 34 Criminal Court of Berlin, accused of the facilitation of assaulting minors. Unlike his fellow doctors Pansold remained silent during the procedure regarding the allegations against him. The chamber found Pansold as proven guilty, according to his own accounts in his report \"Controlling the allocation of virile enhancing strong anabolic steroids to underage swimmers at Dynamo, and there were no milder circumstances to be seen. Pansold was sentenced to a money fine and his plea for a revision to the Federal Court was denied in February 2000.\n\nAfter the reunification of Germany, Pansold migrated to Austria along with several of his former colleagues, which soon became known as the \"Country of refuge for the DDR doping doctors\". Here he opened a practice in Vienna, on top of being employed by a Federal and State sponsored Sports Centre modeled after German Olympic training centers in Obertauern. At this sports center, Pansold, who was becoming known as a good performance diagnostician, supervised several known top-flight Austrian Winter athletes. Austrian alpine star skier Hermann Maier was a regular at his practice, and the doping allegations which surfaced in 1998 from competitors and the media in his breakthrough year, were largely due to his association with Pansold. Maier however denied ever having close contact to Pansold. The following nationwide attention to Pansolds past involvement with doping, enhanced by the ongoing court cases in Germany, put athletes and officials of Austrian winter-sports under immense pressure, since they were now being accused of working closely with Pansold. ÖSV-President Peter Schröcksnadel publicly disputed ever to have worked with Pansold. In 1998 the ÖSV then made their utility of the Performance center Obertauern dependent on the dismissal of Pansold, which followed shortly thereafter. The media however accused the ÖSV of not taking necessary action until sufficient public attention was brought to the matter.\n\nFollowing his dismissal in Obertauern, Pansold continued to work from his practice in Vienna, who was occasionally invited to conferences and lectures, in which he sometimes claimed that the performance of professional athletes had only reached 50% of their potential in today's sports. In 2008, he was hired by soft drink manufacturer Red Bull, whose founder and owner Dietrich Mateschitz had recently begun to sponsor sport clubs and athletes in a major way. Pansold then became the leader of the companies own \"Diagnostic- and Training center \" open to all athletes who are sponsored by Red Bull. When the company was critically questioned about the hiring of Pansold, the company stated that Pansold was one of the world's leading performance diagnostician and sports doctors, and that Dr. Pansold was unchallenged in his correctness and integrity according to his medicinal circles and the Red Bull staff and athletes. Pansold himself added that doping was a thing of the past from the time of the Cold War. Mateschitz himself also expressed that he felt as though what Pansold was involved with in East Germany was a thing of the past.\n\nSince it became known that Red Bull and Pansold were working together, there has been harsh criticism raised against the company. In 2011 the German publication \"Der Tagesspiegel\" even accused the company of being too secretive regarding their involvement with Pansold, stating that the company were reluctant to share details on how and to what extent the collaboration with Pansold was. The Süddeutsche Zeitung concluded, after a meeting of journalists with Pansold in Thalgau where he refused to answer questions regarding his past, that there are former athletes of the DDR, who are either sick today or who have had disabled children, due to the pills they were given by Pansold in their youth, and that you cannot hold it against them that they find it harsh and cynical that Pansold continues to be allowed to happily continue in his career as a doctor considering their condition.\n\nIt is noteworthy that several notable athletes attend the Diagnostic- and training center to different degrees, to be treated or advised, such as German sports stars Maria Riesch and Sebastian Vettel, who however dispute and deny having ever had any contact with Pansold who is the leader of the operation. A possible collaboration between American Alpine skier Lindsey Vonn and Pansold is also a reoccurring theme in German media. Pansold's role at the Red Bull facility was not reported in the United States until 2013, when Pansold confirmed in an interview with the New York Daily News that Vonn had visited him in Thalgau, though Vonn's publicist said they exchanged \"nothing more than a courtesy hello.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "42703949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42703949", "title": "Bessam", "text": "Bessam\n\nCheikh El Khalil Moulaye Ahmed, more commonly known as Bessam, (; born 4 December 1987 in Zouérat) is a Mauritanian football player who currently plays for Ligue 1 Mauritania club FC Nouadhibou and the Mauritania national team.\n\nBessam started his career with the club ASC Ksar until he was called to represent the national team by the \"then\" coach Patrice Neveu. He scored on his first game with the national team, and made an assist in the 2-0 win over Senegal that Qualified the Mauritanian team to the 2014 African Nations Championship in South Africa.\n\nIn May 2014, Bessam signed a two-year contract with Algerian club JS Kabylie. On August 16, he made his JS Kabylie debut, away to MC Oran, scoring the second goal in a 2–0 victory.\nHe scored the first goal for Mauritania in a 2-0 victory over Senegal.\n\nBessam started his successful national career by helping his country to qualify to the 2014 African Nations Championship in South Africa where they were disqualified from the groups stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "37255887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37255887", "title": "Carpathian Trophy (men's handball)", "text": "Carpathian Trophy (men's handball)\n\nThe Carpathian Trophy () is an annual men's friendly handball tournament organised by the Romanian Handball Federation. The first edition took place in Bucharest in 1959.\n\nIt reached the 40th edition in April 2012. There is no precise format for the tournament, even though recently there were four participating teams.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1145707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1145707", "title": "Cervical collar", "text": "Cervical collar\n\nA cervical collar, also known as a neck brace, is a medical device used to support a person's neck. It is also applied by emergency personnel to those who have had traumatic head or neck injuries, and can be used to treat chronic medical conditions.\n\nWhenever people have a traumatic head or neck injury, they may have a cervical fracture. This makes them at high risk for spinal cord injury, which could be exacerbated by movement of the person and could lead to paralysis or death. A common scenario for this injury would be a person suspected of having whiplash because of a car accident. In order to prevent further injury, such people may have a collar placed by medical professionals until X-rays can be taken to determine if a cervical spine fracture exists. The cervical collar only stabilizes the top seven vertebrae, C1 through C7. (Other immobilizing devices such as a Kendrick Extrication Device or a backboard can be used to stabilize the remainder of the spinal column.)\n\nThe routine use of a cervical collar by a first aid provider is not recommended.\n\nCervical collars are also used therapeutically to help realign the spinal cord and relieve pain, although they are usually not worn for long periods of time. Another use of the cervical collar is for strains, sprains or whiplash. If pain is persistent, the collar might be required to remain attached to help in the healing process. A person may also need a cervical collar, or may require a halo fixation device to support the neck during recovery after surgery such as cervical spinal fusion.\n\nA soft collar is fairly flexible and is the least limiting but can carry a high risk of further breakage, especially in people with osteoporosis. It can be used for minor injuries or after healing has allowed the neck to become more stable.\n\nA range of manufactured rigid collars are also used, usually comprising (a) a firm plastic bi-valved shell secured with Velcro straps and (b) removable padded liners. The most frequently prescribed are the Aspen, Malibu, Miami J, and Philadelphia collars. All these can be used with additional chest and head extension pieces to increase stability.\n\nCervical collars are incorporated into rigid braces that constrain the head and chest together. Examples include the Sterno-Occipital Mandibular Immobilization Device (SOMI), Lerman Minerva and Yale types. Special cases, such as very young children or non-cooperative adults, are sometimes still immobilized in medical plaster of paris casts, such as the Minerva cast.\n\nAs a result of several randomized clinical trials over the last decade, hospitals and ambulance staff have seen a significant reduction in the number of patients that are being immobilized. This has been due to complications such as increased intracranial pressure with traumatic brain injury, along with access issues for airway management in obtunded patients. Some medical professionals have even been calling for a ban of Cervical Collars, stating that they cause more harm than good. There is also very little evidence that shows Cervical Collars to be actually making a difference in traumatic cervical spine injury.\n\nIn high-risk motorsports such as Motocross, go-kart racing and speed-boat racing, racers often wear a protective collar to avoid whiplash and other neck injuries.\n\nDesigns range from simple foam collars to complex composite devices.\n"}
{"id": "36831118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36831118", "title": "Club throw", "text": "Club throw\n\nThe club throw is an athletic throwing event where the object is to throw a wooden club. The event is one of the four throwing events, along with discus, javelin and shot put of the Summer Paralympics. It is the Paralympic equivalent of the hammer throw. The club throw was introduced for both men and women at the first 1960 Summer Paralympic Games. It was dropped from the women's programme from the 1992 Paralympics in Barcelona but was reinstated for London 2012.\n\nLike other throwing events, the competition is decided by who can throw the club the farthest, though when the event is contested by athletes of different disability classifications, such as the Paralympics, the result is decided by a points score using the Raza Points System which considers athletes' relative levels of disability. The club for men and women weighs a minimum of and is normally made from wood with a metal base. The athlete sits in a frame in a throwing area which is within a marked circle between in diameter. The frame is common for each competitor and is rigid. The sport is contested at the Paralympics by athletes in the F31, F32 and F51 classes (individuals with the most significant impairment in hand function).\n\n the world record for the men's club in the 32 class is held by Maciej Sochal, who threw at the 2016 IPC Athletics European Championships. The men's record in the 51 class is held by Željko Dimitrijević, who recorded a distance of at the 2017 World Para Athletics Championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "304101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304101", "title": "Commissioner of Baseball", "text": "Commissioner of Baseball\n\nThe Commissioner of Baseball is the chief executive of Major League Baseball (MLB) and the associated Minor League Baseball (MiLB) – a constellation of leagues and clubs known as organized baseball. Under the direction of the Commissioner, the Office of the Commissioner of Baseball hires and maintains the sport's umpiring crews, and negotiates marketing, labor, and television contracts. The commissioner is chosen by a vote of the owners of the teams. The current commissioner is Rob Manfred, who assumed office on January 25, 2015.\n\nThe title \"commissioner\", which is a title now applied to the heads of several other major sports leagues as well as baseball, derives from its predecessor office, the National Commission. The National Commission was the ruling body of professional baseball starting with the National Agreement of 1903, which made peace between the National League and the American League (see History of baseball in the United States). It consisted of three members: the two League presidents and a Commission chairman, whose primary responsibilities were to preside at meetings and to mediate disputes. Although the Commission chairman August Herrmann was the nominal head of major league baseball, it was AL President Ban Johnson who dominated the Commission.\n\nThe event that would eventually lead to the appointment of a single Commissioner of Baseball was the Black Sox Scandal — perhaps the worst of a series of incidents in the late 1910s that jeopardized the integrity of the game. However, the motivations behind the creation of the Commissioner's office were more than the mere desire to rebuild public relations. The scandal had not only tarnished the image of baseball, but had brought relations between team owners and AL President Johnson to a breaking point. In particular, Chicago White Sox owner Charles Comiskey was incensed at what he perceived to be Johnson's indifference to his suspicions that the 1919 World Series had been thrown. As a result, the National League, whose owners had never been on good terms with Johnson, agreed to invite the White Sox along with the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees to join their league. The NL also unveiled plans to put a twelfth team in Detroit.\n\nWith the American League's status as a major league and possibly its very existence suddenly in jeopardy, the five AL owners loyal to Johnson sued for peace. Eventually, at the urging of Detroit Tigers owner and Johnson loyalist Frank Navin, a compromise was reached in late 1920 to reform the National Commission with a membership of non-baseball men.\n\nHaving agreed to appoint only non-baseball men to the National Commission, the owners tapped federal judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis, an ardent baseball fan, to serve as the reformed commission's chairman. Landis responded by declaring that he would only accept an appointment as sole commissioner, with nearly unlimited authority to act in the \"best interests of baseball\" — in essence, serving as an arbitrator whose decisions could not be appealed. Finally, Landis insisted on a lifetime contract. The owners, still reeling from the perception that the sport was crooked, readily agreed.\n\nLandis's first significant act was to deal with the Black Sox scandal. Following a trial, the eight players suspected of involvement in the fix were acquitted, including Buck Weaver and superstar Shoeless Joe Jackson. Nevertheless, immediately following the players' acquittal, Landis banned them all from baseball for life. He famously declared, \"Regardless of the verdict of juries, no player who throws a ballgame, no player that undertakes or promises to throw a ballgame, no player that sits in conference with a bunch of crooked players and gamblers where the ways and means of throwing a game are discussed and does not promptly tell his club about it, will ever play professional baseball.\" Landis explained that even though the players had all been acquitted in court, none of them could be allowed back in the game if its image was to be restored with the public.\n\nOver the years, he dealt harshly with others proven to have thrown individual games, consorted with gamblers or engaged in actions that he felt tarnished the image of the game. Among the others he banned were New York Giants players Phil Douglas and Jimmy O'Connell, Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Gene Paulette, Giants coach Cozy Dolan, and (in 1943) Phillies owner William D. Cox. He also formalized the unofficial banishments of Hal Chase and Heinie Zimmerman. In 1921, he banned Giants center fielder Benny Kauff even though he had been acquitted of involvement in a car theft ring. Nonetheless, Landis was convinced Kauff was guilty and argued that players of \"undesirable reputation and character\" had no place in baseball.\n\nThe owners had initially assumed that Landis would deal with the Black Sox Scandal and then settle into a comfortable retirement as the titular head of baseball. Instead, Landis ruled baseball with an iron hand for the next 25 years. He established a fiercely independent Commissioner's Office that would go on to often make both players and owners miserable with decisions that he argued were in the best interests of the game. He worked to clean up the hooliganism that was tarnishing the reputation of players in the 1920s, and inserted his office into negotiations with players, where he deemed appropriate, to end a few of the labor practices of owners like Charles Comiskey that had contributed to the players' discontent. He also personally approved broadcasters for the World Series.\n\nLandis's only significant rival in the early years was longtime American League founder and president Ban Johnson, who had been reckoned as the most powerful man in the game before Landis's arrival. Johnson was as strong-willed as Landis, and a clash between the two was inevitable. It happened in the 1924 World Series. When several Giants were implicated in a plan to bribe players on the moribund Phillies late in the season, Johnson demanded that the Series be canceled, and loudly criticized Landis's handling of the affair, to which Landis responded by threatening to resign. The American League owners promised to throw Johnson out of office if he stepped out of line again. Two years later, when Johnson criticized Landis's decision to give Ty Cobb and Tris Speaker an amnesty after it surfaced they had bet on a fixed game in 1919, Landis told the American League owners to choose between him and Johnson. The owners promptly sent Johnson on a sabbatical from which he never really returned.\n\nLandis perpetuated the color line and prolonged the segregation of organized baseball. His successor, Happy Chandler, said, \"For twenty-four years Judge Landis wouldn't let a black man play. I had his records, and I read them, and for twenty-four years Landis consistently blocked any attempts to put blacks and whites together on a big league field.\" Bill Veeck claimed Landis prevented him from purchasing the Phillies when Landis learned of Veeck's plan to integrate the team. The signing of the first black ballplayer in the modern era, Jackie Robinson, came less than a year after Landis's death on Chandler's watch and was engineered by one of Landis's old nemeses, Branch Rickey. Eleven weeks after Robinson's debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers, Veeck became the first American League owner to break the color line.\n\nLandis tried to curb the growth of minor league farm systems by innovators such as Rickey, in the name of protecting the lower levels of professional ball. Landis argued that because a parent club could unilaterally call up players from teams which were involved in pennant races, the organization was unfairly interfering with the minor competitions. His position was that the championship of each minor league was of no less importance than the championships of the major leagues, and that minor league fans and supporters had the right to see their teams competing as best they could. Yet he also prevented the formation of a powerful third major league when he stopped Pants Rowland from upgrading the Pacific Coast League in the 1940s.\n\nOne of the schemes he fought was the effort by major-league teams to \"cover up\" players they were hiding in their farm systems. The term, not used in formal communications by league or team officials, referred to players clandestinely signed by a major-league team to a minor-league contract. Occasionally one team would serendipitously find such a player in the off-season draft, as in this occasion recorded in the book \"Dodger Daze and Knights\":\nAll the clubowners and managers, and Commissioner Landis, were assembled to conduct the draft. One team representative said he \"claim[s] Player [Paul] Richards of Brooklyn.\"\n\n\"You can't do that!\" barked a surprised Wilbert Robinson, manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers.\n\n\"Why not?\" asked Landis.\n\n\"Because Brooklyn has him covered up\", sputtered Robbie.\n\nMost of the others broke down laughing. Even Landis smirked.\nWhether his decisions were praised or criticized, he was satisfied with being respected and feared. Dubbed \"the baseball tyrant\" by journalists of the day, his rule was absolute. In the context of ensuring the integrity of the game itself, baseball historians generally regard him as the right man at the right time when appointed, but also as a man who perhaps held office too long.\n\nHe was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1944, in a special election held one month after his death, and the Most Valuable Player Award in each league is officially known as the Kenesaw Mountain Landis Award in his honor.\n\nWhen Judge Landis died in 1944, an official in the War Department began campaigning for Happy Chandler's election to the post. Despite being the last candidate put forth in the April 1945 meetings, he was elected by a unanimous vote of the team owners, and resigned his Senate seat in October of that year.\n\nChandler clashed with Brooklyn Dodgers manager Leo \"the Lip\" Durocher over Durocher's association with gambling figures and his marriage to actress Laraine Day, which came amid allegations from Day's ex-husband that Durocher had stolen her away from him. Before the start of the 1947 season, Chandler suspended Durocher for the entire season, citing \"conduct detrimental to baseball.\" The Dodgers went on to win the pennant that season under replacement manager Burt Shotton.\n\nChandler became known as \"the players' commissioner\" for his work on their behalf. During his service, he presided over the establishment of a pension fund for players and oversaw the initial steps toward integration of the major leagues, beginning with the debut of Jackie Robinson with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947. This move was controversial with team owners, who voted 15–1 against integrating the sport in a secret January 1947 meeting. The Dodgers' Branch Rickey met with Chandler, who agreed to back the team's move. Chandler's stance was credited by many in the sports community with Chandler's failure to be selected for another term as Commissioner after the expiration of his first one in 1951.\n\nChandler was fully aware that he was jeopardizing his own commissionership by stewarding the integration process. Chandler's attitude was a simple one, which he conveyed to Branch Rickey, and later recounted in his autobiography:\n\nIn , Ford Frick succeeded Happy Chandler as commissioner of baseball. Frick's critics accused him of favoring the NL in his rulings, such as how the 1960s expansion teams would be stocked.\n\nFrick's most highly criticized statement as commissioner was made in 1961, when several players were on a pace to break Babe Ruth's single-season home run record. In a press conference, Frick stated that the single-season home run record should be separated into multiple lists, based on length of season. However, as MLB did not publish an official record book at the time, Frick had no control on how publishers presented MLB records, and within a few years after Roger Maris broke Ruth's record, all record books gave Maris sole credit as the single-season home run record holder.\nLater, it was revealed that Frick had served as a ghostwriter for Ruth earlier in his career.\n\nFrick successfully prevented the Continental League, a proposed third major league, from ever playing, and introduced major league baseball to several markets in which the proposed league planned to play through expansion and relocation.\n\nMore than 150 names appeared on the original list of nominees for the commissionership following Ford Frick's retirement. The club owners initially were unable to decide if the next commissioner should come from the ranks of the game (e.g., the president of the American or National Leagues), or elsewhere. They finally decided that the new commissioner should have a strong business background to deal with the problems that were confronting the game at the time.\n\nWilliam Eckert became a serious candidate for the commissionership only after fellow officer Curtis LeMay gave Major League Baseball a recommendation for him. On November 17, 1965, by a unanimous vote of the then, 20 major league club owners, William Eckert became the fourth Commissioner of Major League Baseball.\n\nWhen he became commissioner, Eckert had not seen a game in person in over 10 years. He was a compromise choice for the job, previously being so obscure that sportswriters nicknamed him \"the Unknown Soldier.\"\n\nHe incurred the public's ire by refusing to cancel games after the assassinations of Sen. Robert F. Kennedy and Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., and team owners' disdain because he refused to deal forcefully with substantive business issues. Anticipating a players' strike and having no ownership confidence in his ability to handle the situation, Eckert was forced to resign at the end of the 1968 season, although he still had three years on his contract.\n\nIn spite of his much publicized failures and shortcomings, William Eckert also developed more effective committee actions, streamlined business methods and helped stabilize franchises with bigger stadiums and long-term leases. In addition, Eckert worked hard toward promoting the game internationally, including a 1966 tour of Japan by the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nBowie Kuhn's tenure was marked by labor strikes (most notably in 1981), owner disenchantment, and the end of baseball's reserve clause, yet baseball enjoyed unprecedented attendance gains (from 23 million in to 45.5 million in ) and television contracts during the same time frame.\n\nKuhn suspended numerous players for involvement with drugs and gambling, and took a strong stance against any activity that he perceived to be \"not in the best interests of baseball.\"\n\nIn , he suspended star Detroit Tigers pitcher Denny McLain indefinitely (the suspension was later set at 3 months) due to McLain's involvement in a bookmaking operation, and later suspended McLain for the rest of the season for carrying a gun. He barred both Willie Mays (in ) and Mickey Mantle (in ) from the sport due to their involvement in casino promotion; neither was directly involved in gambling, and both were reinstated by Kuhn's successor Peter Ueberroth in .\n\nAlso in 1970, Kuhn described Jim Bouton's \"Ball Four\" as \"detrimental to baseball\" and demanded that Bouton retract it. The book has been republished several times and is now considered a classic.\n\nOn October 13, , the World Series held a night game for the first time. Kuhn, who thought that baseball could attract a larger audience by featuring a prime time telecast (as opposed to a mid-afternoon broadcast, when most fans either worked or attended school), pitched the idea to NBC. An estimated 61 million people watched Game 4 on NBC; TV ratings for a World Series game during the daytime hours would not have approached such a record number. Kuhn's vision in this instance has been fulfilled, as all the World Series games are now shown in prime time.\n\nOn October 7, , the St. Louis Cardinals traded Curt Flood, catcher Tim McCarver, outfielder Byron Browne, and left-handed pitcher Joe Hoerner to the Philadelphia Phillies for first baseman Dick Allen, second baseman Cookie Rojas, and right-handed ace relief pitcher Jerry Johnson.\n\nHowever, Flood refused to report to the moribund Phillies, citing the team's poor record and the fact that they played in dilapidated Connie Mack Stadium before belligerent and, Flood believed, racist fans. Flood forfeited a relatively lucrative US$100,000 (equivalent to $ in ) contract by his refusal to be traded to the Phillies.\n\nIn a letter to Kuhn, Flood demanded that the commissioner declare him a free agent. Kuhn denied his request, citing the propriety of the reserve clause, which was language in contracts that essentially prevented a player from playing with another team even after his contract expired. In response, Flood filed a lawsuit against Kuhn and Major League Baseball on January 16, , alleging that Major League Baseball had violated federal antitrust laws. Even though Flood was making $90,000 (equivalent to $ in ) at the time, he likened the reserve clause to slavery. It was a controversial analogy, even among those who opposed the reserve clause.\n\nThe case, \"Flood v. Kuhn\" (407 U.S. 258) eventually went to the Supreme Court. Flood's attorney, former Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg, asserted that the reserve clause depressed wages and limited players to one team for life. Major League Baseball's counsel countered that Commissioner Kuhn acted under the way he did '\"for the good of the game.\"\"\n\nUltimately, the Supreme Court, acting on \"stare decisis\" \"to stand by things decided\", ruled 5–3 in favor of Major League Baseball, upholding a ruling in the case of \"Federal Baseball Club v. National League\", (259 U.S. 200.)\n\nThough he had a reputation as an owners' commissioner, Kuhn did not avoid confronting owners when he deemed it necessary. For example, he was a major adversary of Oakland Athletics owner Charles O. Finley. A major embarrassment for baseball resulted from Finley's actions during the 1973 World Series. Finley forced player Mike Andrews to sign a false affidavit saying he was injured after the reserve infielder committed two consecutive errors in the 12th inning of Oakland's Game 2 loss to the New York Mets. Andrews' teammates as well as manager Dick Williams rallied to his defense. Kuhn in return, forced Finley to reinstate Andrews. In , when Finley attempted to sell several players to the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees for $3.5 million, Kuhn blocked the deals on the grounds that they would be bad for the game. Some believe that Kuhn's actions were simply a revenge tactic, aimed at Finley, after Finley attempted to force an owners vote to remove Kuhn as commissioner in .\n\nAfter being in office for over ten years, Kuhn had grown a strong reputation for being hard on players who abused drugs. Kuhn was quick to punish players who used drugs with heavy fines and suspensions. Kansas City Royals catcher Darrell Porter told the Associated Press that during the winter of – he became paranoid, convinced that Kuhn knew about his drug abuse, was trying to sneak into his house, and planned to ban him from baseball for life. Porter found himself sitting up at night in the dark watching out the front window, waiting for Kuhn to approach, clutching billiard balls and a shotgun. Ironically, when Porter was named the most valuable player of the 1982 World Series while playing for the Cardinals, Kuhn was on hand to congratulate him.\n\nIn , during the Iranian hostage crisis, Kuhn sat at a baseball game with Jeremiah Denton, a Navy admiral and former POW in Vietnam who would be elected U.S. Senator later that year from the state of Alabama. Recalling the event to \"The Washington Post\", Kuhn believed that \"that afternoon...the idea of a lifetime baseball pass was discussed,\" and upon their return from Iran, each of the 52 hostages was given one of these unique passes.\n\nIn , four players from the Kansas City Royals – Willie Wilson, Jerry Martin, Willie Mays Aikens, and Vida Blue – were found guilty of cocaine use. In addition, such established stars as Ferguson Jenkins, Keith Hernandez, Dave Parker, and Dale Berra admitted to having problems with drugs.\nKuhn was both praised and attacked for the firm stand that he levied against offenders. In , some of the owners organized a move to push him out of office. In , Kuhn and his supporters made a last-ditch effort to renew his contract but ultimately failed. Kuhn, though, was allowed to stay for the regular season before being replaced by Peter Ueberroth.\n\nPeter Ueberroth was elected to succeed Bowie Kuhn on March 3, 1984 and took office on October 1 of that year. As a condition of his hiring, Ueberroth increased the commissioner's fining ability from US$5,000 to $250,000. His salary was raised to a reported $450,000, nearly twice what Kuhn was paid.\n\nJust as Ueberroth was taking office the Major League Umpires Union was threatening to strike the postseason. Ueberroth managed to arbitrate the disagreement and had the umpires back to work before the League Championship Series were over. The next summer, Ueberroth worked behind the scenes to limit a players' strike to one day before a new labor agreement was worked out with the Players Association.\n\nDuring the course of his stint as commissioner, Ueberroth reinstated Hall of Famers Willie Mays and Mickey Mantle, who had been banned from working for Major League Baseball by Kuhn because of their associations with gambling casinos. Also, Ueberroth suspended numerous players because of cocaine use, negotiated a $1.1 billion television contract with CBS, and initiated the investigation against Pete Rose's betting habits. In 1985, Ueberroth's first full year in office, the League Championship Series expanded from a best-of-five series to a best-of-seven series. At his urging, the Chicago Cubs chose to install lights at Wrigley Field rather than reimburse the leagues for lost night-game revenues. Ueberroth then found a new source of income in the form of persuading large corporations to pay for the privilege of having their products endorsed by Major League Baseball.\n\nHowever, Ueberroth, with the assistance of the owners, also facilitated collusion, an illegal violation of the league's collective bargaining agreement with the players, during the 1985, 1986 and 1987 off-seasons. Players entering free-agency were prevented from both signing equitable contracts and joining the teams of their choice during this period, a strategy that union leader Marvin Miller later held was \"tantamount to fixing, not just games, but entire pennant races, including all post-season series.\" The MLBPA filed collusion charges, arguing that Ueberroth and team owners had violated the collective bargaining agreement in the 1985, 1986, and 1987 seasons. The MLBPA won each case, resulting in \"second look\" free agents, and over $280 million in owner fines. Fay Vincent, who followed Ueberroth's successor in the commissioner's office, laid the crippling labor problems of the early 1990s directly at the feet of Ueberroth and the owners' collusion, holding that the collusion years constituted theft from the players.\n\nUnder Ueberroth, Major League Baseball enjoyed increased attendance (record attendance four straight seasons), greater awareness of crowd control and alcohol management within ballparks, a successful and vigilant anti-drug campaign, significant industry-wide improvement in the area of fair employment, and a significantly improved financial picture for the industry. When Ueberroth took office, 21 of the 26 clubs were losing money; in Ueberroth's last full season--1988—all clubs either broke even or finished in the black. In 1987, for example, baseball as an industry showed a net profit of $21.3 million, its first profitable year since 1973.\n\nNonetheless, following the announcement of the first of three large awards to the players following the collusion findings, Ueberroth stepped down as commissioner before the start of the 1989 regular season; his contract was to have run through the end of the season. He was succeeded by National League president A. Bartlett Giamatti.\n\nA Yale professor of English literature who became president of the university, A. Bartlett Giamatti had a lifelong interest in baseball (he was a die-hard Boston Red Sox fan). He became President of the National League in , and later Commissioner of Baseball in . During his stint as National League president, Giamatti placed an emphasis on the need to improve the environment for the fan in the ballparks. He also decided to make umpires strictly enforce the balk rule, and supported \"social justice\" as the only remedy for the lack of presence of minority managers, coaches, or executives at any level in Major League Baseball.\n\nWhile still serving as National League president, Giamatti suspended Pete Rose for 30 games after Rose shoved umpire Dave Pallone on April 30, 1988. Later that year, Giamatti also suspended Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Jay Howell, who was caught using pine tar during the National League Championship Series.\n\nGiamatti, whose tough dealing with Yale's union favorably impressed Major League Baseball owners, was unanimously elected to succeed Peter Ueberroth as commissioner on September 8, 1988 and assumed office on April 1, 1989. Giamatti was commissioner on August 24, when Pete Rose voluntarily agreed to permanent ineligibility from baseball. As reflected in the agreement with Pete Rose, Giamatti was determined to maintain the integrity of the game during his brief commissionership.\nWhile at his vacation home on Martha's Vineyard, Giamatti, a heavy smoker for many years, died suddenly of a massive heart attack at the age of 51, just eight days after banishing Rose and 154 days into his tenure as commissioner. He became the second baseball commissioner to die in office, the first being Kenesaw Mountain Landis. Baseball's owners soon selected Fay Vincent, Giamatti's close friend and baseball's first-ever deputy commissioner, as the new commissioner.\n\nAt his longtime friend incoming commissioner Bart Giamatti's behest, Fay Vincent accepted the position of deputy commissioner. He became the 8th commissioner of baseball following Giamatti's death on September 1, 1989, and presided over the 1989 World Series, which was interrupted by the Loma Prieta earthquake; the owners' lockout during Spring training of the 1990 season; and the expulsion of George Steinbrenner in his first year. Before accepting the job as Commissioner of Baseball, Vincent consulted with Bart Giamatti's widow, Toni, to make sure she thought it was appropriate for him to do so.\n\nIn 1990, National League president Bill White was prepared to suspend umpire Joe West for slamming Philadelphia pitcher Dennis Cook to the field, but Vincent intervened and no discipline was imposed.\n\nDuring his commissionership, Vincent made it known (e.g. while being interviewed by Pat O'Brien during CBS' coverage of Game 4 of the 1991 World Series) that if he had the chance, he would get rid of the designated hitter rule.\n\nVincent has also been connected with Pete Rose's lifetime banishment from baseball; however, Rose's banishment began while Giamatti was commissioner, not Vincent (although Vincent led the investigation and was involved in the negotiations). Vincent has publicly said he does not support Rose's reinstatement.\n\nOn October 17, 1989, Vincent sat in a field box behind the left dugout at San Francisco's Candlestick Park. At 5:04 p.m., just prior to Game 3 of the World Series between the San Francisco Giants and Oakland Athletics, the 6.9 Mw Loma Prieta earthquake hit with a maximum Mercalli intensity of IX (\"Violent\"). At approximately 5:35 p.m., after coming to the conclusion that the power couldn't be restored before sunset, Vincent ordered the game to be postponed. According to Vincent, he had already made the decision to postpone Game 3 without telling anybody first. As a result, the umpires filed a formal protest of Vincent's decision. However, the game had to be postponed due to trouble with gas lines as well as the power issue.\n\nThe World Series ultimately resumed after a ten-day postponement (and some initial conflict between Vincent and San Francisco mayor Art Agnos, who felt that the World Series ought to have been delayed much longer) on October 27, 1989. While presenting the Commissioner's Trophy to the Athletics, who wound up winning the World Series in a four-game sweep, Vincent summed up the 1989 World Series as a \"Remarkable World Series in many respects.\"\n\nIn February 1990, owners announced that spring training would not be starting as scheduled. This occurred after MLBPA Executive Director Donald Fehr became afraid that the owners would institute a salary cap. Fehr believed that a salary cap could possibly restrict the number of choices free agents could make and a pay-for-performance scale would eliminate multiyear contracts. The lockout, which was the seventh work stoppage in baseball since 1972, lasted 32 games and wiped out all of spring training.\n\nVincent worked with both the owners and MLBPA, and on March 19, 1990, Vincent was able to announce a new Basic Agreement (which raised the minimum major league salary from US$68,000 to $100,000 and established a six-man study committee on revenue sharing). As a consequence for the lockout, Opening Day for the 1990 season was moved back a week to April 9, and the season was extended by three days to accommodate the normal 162-game schedule.\n\nOn July 30, 1990, Vincent banned New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner from baseball for life after Steinbrenner paid Howie Spira, a small-time gambler, $40,000 for \"dirt\" on his outfielder Dave Winfield after Winfield sued Steinbrenner for failing to pay his foundation the $300,000 guaranteed in his contract. Steinbrenner was eventually reinstated in 1993 (one year after Vincent left office).\n\nOn June 24, 1992, Vincent permanently suspended pitcher Steve Howe for repeated drug offenses. Vincent was incensed when upper Yankee management (Buck Showalter, Gene Michael, and Jack Lawn) agreed to testify on Howe's behalf, and threatened them with expulsion from the game:\nIronically, the three men were unaffected by Vincent's hyperbole, testified for Howe as promised, and remained active in baseball. Three months later, Vincent was removed from his job as commissioner. An arbitrator overturned Vincent's suspension of Howe on November 11, 1992.\n\nIn June 1991, Vincent declared that the American League would receive US$42 million of the National League's $190 million in expansion revenue and that the AL would provide players in the National League expansion draft (involving the Colorado Rockies and Florida Marlins). In an attempt to win support in the American League and balance the vote, Vincent decreed that the AL owners were entitled to 22 percent of the $190 million take. This decision marked the first time in expansion history that leagues were required to share expansion revenue or provide players for another league's expansion draft. Vincent said the owners expanded to raise money to pay their collusion debt.\n\nJust prior to leaving office, Vincent had plans to realign the National League. Vincent wanted the Chicago Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals to move from the Eastern Division to the Western Division. Part of the impetus for realignment was the geographically anomalous placement of the Cincinnati Reds and Atlanta Braves in the West and the Cubs and the Cardinals in the east since 1969. National League president Bill White warned Vincent that realigning without league approval would be in violation of the National League Constitution.\n\nMany thought this plan would be beneficial to the league as a whole, especially by building a regional rivalry between the new franchise in Miami and the Atlanta Braves. The Cubs, however, opposed the move, suggesting that fans in the Central Time Zone would be forced to watch more games originating on the West Coast with later broadcast times (had the realignment included the use of a balanced schedule, the Cubs would have actually played more games against teams outside their division).\n\nOn July 17, 1992, the Chicago Cubs sued Vincent and asked the U.S. District Court in Chicago for a preliminary injunction to prevent implementation, which was granted two weeks later. After Vincent's attorneys appealed, oral arguments were scheduled for August 30 that year. Ultimately, Vincent resigned before the litigation was scheduled to resume, so as a result, the Cubs dropped their suit.\n\nAlthough Vincent's vision never really came into fruition, Major League Baseball did in fact realign in 1994, albeit in the form of three divisions in each league, and the addition of an expanded playoff format.\n\nHis relationship with baseball's owners was always tenuous at best; he resigned in 1992 after the owners gave him an 18–9 no confidence vote. The owners were still angry at Vincent over his intervention during the 1990 lockout. The owners were also disappointed by dwindling television ratings in light of a US$1.1 billion, four-year deal with CBS (which ultimately cost the network $500 million) beginning in 1990 (Vincent's first full season as commissioner) and upwardly spiraling salaries. (It is also important to note that CBS itself contributed to decreasing ratings thanks to the haphazard scheduling of \"Game of the Week\" broadcasts during the regular season to the point that fans grew tired of tuning into no baseball on summer Saturdays.) They also accused him of acting in a high-handed manner, especially in the Howe affair.\n\nThe leaders in the movement to oust Vincent were members of what \"The Sporting News\" later dubbed \"The Great Lakes Gang\":\n\n\nIn his farewell, Vincent said \n\nHe was replaced by Milwaukee Brewers owner Bud Selig, whose family continued to maintain ownership over the Brewers. Fay Vincent was never able to complete the five-year term that he had inherited from Bart Giamatti. Vincent would later contend that Major League Baseball made a huge mistake by not appointing his deputy commissioner Steve Greenberg — the son of the Hall of Famer Hank Greenberg — as the commissioner.\n\nBud Selig served as the Executive Council Chairman from 1992 to 1998, acting as the commissioner, and then was appointed as the official commissioner in 1998. Selig oversaw baseball through the 1994 strike, the introduction of the wild card, interleague play, and the merging of the National and American leagues under the Office of the Commissioner. He was instrumental in organizing the World Baseball Classic in 2006. Selig also introduced revenue sharing. He is credited for the financial turnaround of baseball during his tenure with a 400 percent increase in the revenue of MLB and annual record breaking attendance.\n\nDuring Selig's term of service, the use of steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs became a public issue. The Mitchell Report, commissioned by Selig, concluded that the MLB commissioners, club officials, the Players Association, and the players all share \"to some extent in the responsibility for the steroid era.\" Following the release of the Mitchell Report, Congressman Cliff Stearns called publicly for Selig to step down as commissioner, citing his \"glacial response\" to the \"growing stain on baseball.\" Selig pledged on numerous occasions to rid baseball of performance-enhancing drugs, and oversaw and instituted many rule changes and penalties to that end.\n\nBud Selig helped introduce the following changes to Major League Baseball:\n\nDuring Selig's years of service, new stadiums opened in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Colorado, Detroit, Houston, Miami, Milwaukee, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Pittsburgh, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle, Arlington, St. Louis, Washington, D.C., Queens, The Bronx, and Minneapolis, while Fenway Park in Boston and Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City underwent major renovations, and similar work began on Wrigley Field in Chicago.\n\nSelig retired from the position after the season, officially yielding to his successor on January 25, 2015, at which time Selig became the Commissioner Emeritus of Baseball.\n\nRob Manfred was elected as the 10th commissioner of baseball on August 14, 2014. Manfred, who has worked full-time for Major League Baseball since 1998, was elected on the third ballot after falling one vote short of the 23 vote (3/4 super-majority) threshold on the first two ballots. It was baseball's first contested commissioner election in 46 years as Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf and Los Angeles Angels owner Arte Moreno led a group in support of Boston Red Sox chairman Tom Werner, who they felt would take a tougher stance against the players in labor negotiations. Manfred took over from Bud Selig on January 25, 2015.\n\nTensions between commissioners and the baseball team owners who elected them, exacerbated by baseball's chronic labor conflicts with the Major League Baseball Players Association beginning in the 1970s, came to a head in , when baseball owners voted no confidence in Commissioner Fay Vincent by a tally of 18–9. The owners had a number of grievances against Vincent, especially the perception that he had been too favorable to the players during the lockout of . Unlike his replacement Selig, Vincent stated that the owners colluded against the players. Vincent put it this way: \"The Union basically doesn’t trust the Ownership because collusion was a $280 million theft by Selig and Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf of that money from the players. I mean, they rigged the signing of free agents. They got caught. They paid $280 million to the players. And I think that's polluted labor relations in baseball ever since it happened. I think it's the reason union chief Donald Fehr has no trust in Selig.\"\n\nVincent resigned on September 7, 1992. Selig, the longtime owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, was appointed chairman of baseball's Executive Council, making him the \"de facto\" acting commissioner (among the potential candidates for a permanent commissioner discussed in the media were future President George W. Bush, who was the managing partner for the Texas Rangers from 1989 to 1994, and George J. Mitchell, then Majority Leader of the U.S. Senate). While acting commissioner, Selig presided over Major League Baseball during the 1994 player's strike, which led to the cancellation of the World Series.\n\nSelig continued as acting commissioner until July 8, 1998, when the owners officially appointed him to the commissioner position.\nHaving been an owner for 30 years, Selig was seen as having closer ties to the MLB team owners than previous commissioners. Selig's administration had many perceived successes, such as expansion and interleague play.\n\nIn May , Bud Selig surpassed Bowie Kuhn as the second longest-serving commissioner (including his time as \"acting commissioner\" from to mid-), behind Kenesaw Mountain Landis, who died in office after 24 years of service.\nBeginning in 2006, Selig repeatedly stated his intention to retire at the end of his contract in 2009.\nHowever, on 17 January 2008, it was announced that Selig accepted a 3-year extension through the 2012 season \n\nA prominent issue currently faced by Major League Baseball is the usage of performance-enhancing drugs, including anabolic steroids, by ballplayers in the late 1990s through 2009. Addressing the issue of whether Selig should have taken alternate actions, former commissioner Fay Vincent wrote in the April 24, 2006, issue of \"Sports Illustrated\" that with most of Barry Bonds' official troubles being off the field, and with the strength of the players' union, there is little Selig can do beyond appointing an investigating committee. Vincent said that Selig is largely \"an observer of a forum beyond his reach.\"\n\nAnother challenge facing the Office of the Commissioner is competitive imbalance and struggling attendance in small markets. In 2010, just 2 teams (Boston Red Sox, Philadelphia Phillies) sold out every game and many teams failed to draw 2 million fans. In the Office of the Commissioner's Blue Ribbon Panel on Baseball Economics, it was found that the luxury tax was failing to correct the competitive balance of the league and several steps were needed to correct the current state of revenue generating and sharing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14984838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14984838", "title": "Constantine Phillips", "text": "Constantine Phillips\n\nConstantine \"Con\" Phillips (1746 – 14 February 1811) was a noted professional cricketer who played for Surrey in the 1760s and 1770s until 1778.\n\nPhillips was born and died in Chelsham, Surrey, and was christened 2 November 1746. Most of his career took place before cricket's \"statistical record\" began with regular scorecards in 1772. He made five known appearances in first-class cricket matches between 1773 and 1778.\n\nPhillips was primarily a batsman who scored a known total of 117 runs in 10 innings with a highest score of 31. He has not been credited with any wickets. He took just 1 catch, which suggests he may have been an outfielder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1163831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1163831", "title": "Corn Palace", "text": "Corn Palace\n\nThe Corn Palace, commonly advertised as The World's Only Corn Palace and the Mitchell Corn Palace, is a multi-purpose arena/facility located in Mitchell, South Dakota, United States. The Moorish Revival building is decorated with crop art; the murals and designs covering the building are made from corn and other grains, and a new design is constructed each year. The Corn Palace is a popular tourist destination, visited by up to 500,000 people each year.\n\nThe Corn Palace serves the community as a venue for concerts, sports events, exhibits and other community events. Each year, the Corn Palace is celebrated with a citywide festival, the Corn Palace Festival. Historically it was held at harvest time in September, but recently it has been held at the end of August. Other popular annual events include the Corn Palace Stampede Rodeo in July and the Corn Palace Polka Festival in September. It is also home to the Dakota Wesleyan University Tigers and the Mitchell High School Kernels basketball teams.\n\nIn the late 19th Century, a number of cities on the Great Plains constructed \"crop palaces\" (also known as \"grain palaces\") to promote themselves and their products. As the idea succeeded, it spread, including: a Corn Palace in Sioux City, Iowa, that was active from 1887–1891; a Corn Palace in Gregory, South Dakota; a Grain Palace in Plankinton, South Dakota; and a Bluegrass Palace in Creston, Iowa.\n\nThe original Mitchell Corn Palace (known as \"The Corn Belt Exposition\") was built in 1892 to showcase the rich soil of South Dakota and encourage people to settle in the area. It was a wooden castle structure on Mitchell's Main Street, built on land donated by Louis Beckwith, a member of the First Corn Palace Committee. In 1904–1905, the city of Mitchell mounted a challenge to the city of Pierre in an unsuccessful attempt to replace it as the state capital of South Dakota. As part of this effort, the Corn Palace was rebuilt in 1905. In 1921, the Corn Palace was rebuilt once again, with a design by the architectural firm Rapp and Rapp of Chicago. Russian-style onion domes and Moorish minarets were added in 1937, giving the Palace the distinctive appearance that it has today. It costs $130,000 annually to decorate the Palace.\n\nThe exterior corn murals are replaced and redesigned each year with a new theme. The designs are created by local artists. From 1948 to 1971, the artist Oscar Howe designed the panels. Calvin Schultz designed the murals from 1977 to 2002. Since 2003, the murals have been designed by Cherie Ramsdell. No new mural was created in 2006 due to an extreme drought.\n\nIn 2004, national media attention was drawn to the Corn Palace, when it received Homeland Security funding. This drew criticism of the Department of Homeland Security and its grant program. In 2007, the Corn Palace subsequently received $25,000 in DHS funding for a camera system useful for purposes including Barack Obama's visit in 2008, and as reported by the \"Mitchell Daily Republic\", to protect a \"new Fiberglass statue of the Corn Palace mascot Cornelius\" in 2009. This statue sits across Main Street, west of the Corn Palace.\n\nThe Palace's domes were renovated in 2015 after shaking in strong winds. The new turrets are made of architectural metals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12094590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12094590", "title": "E. H. D. Sewell", "text": "E. H. D. Sewell\n\nEdward Humphrey Dalrymple Sewell (30 September 1872 – 20 September 1947) was a first-class cricketer, popular cricket and rugby journalist and author, known universally as E. H. D. Sewell.\n\nHis grandfather was Sir William Henry Sewell (c1786–1862), who had been aide-de-camp to William Beresford, 1st Viscount Beresford, during the Peninsular War, and joined the Duke of Wellington’s army in Portugal in 1808. Sir William was present with Sir John Moore’s army in its retreat from Corunna and later served for 28 years in India.\n\nHis father Colonel Henry Fane Haylett Sewell (1838–1910) was a Colonel in the East Indies. He married Violetta Anna Burn in Singapore May 1860, they had seven sons.\n\nEdward H D was the youngest son, born in Lingsugur, India, where his father served as an Army officer. Sewell was educated at the Rectory in Shropshire and Bedford School in England, returning to India as a civil servant. In 1893 he married Amie Sharpe, who was born in Darjeeling. They had a child, Douglas, born in Coonsor, India, in 1895 and later educated at Dulwich College.\n\nWhile playing cricket in India he became the first batsman in the country to score three consecutive hundreds. In 1893 he played in the first ever All-India side. He went back to England and after a couple of seasons with London County he joined Essex in 1902. He remained with Essex until 1904 but his highest score was made for London County when he made 181 against Surrey at Crystal Palace. A big hitter of the ball, it is said that one of his on-drives measured 140 yards.\n\nHe was known as a good rugby footballer, playing for Bedford, Blackheath and Harlequins, but was most notable as a cricket player. On his return from India he became a professional cricket player for Essex. In 1904 he reached his highest score of 181 under the Captain W.G. Grace, at Crystal Palace against Surrey. Later he was coach to young players at The Oval for Surrey County Cricket Club, and played for Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire. His final first-class match for the MCC Marylebone Cricket Club was in 1922.\n\nHe wrote for various newspapers, as well as many books on both cricket and rugby. His first book was published in 1911, and he continued to write up until his death in 1947. Among his many books were \"From a Window at Lords\", \"The Log of a Sportsman\", \"Who's Won the Toss?\" and \"Rugger: The Man’s Game\".\n\nEdward died on 20 September 1947 in Paddington, London. His obituary in The Times newspaper wrote of his achievements as a writer and player, both of cricket and Rugby football. A friend wrote that he had a kindly and gentle disposition; an alert mind was a good man and a good sportsman.\n\n\n\nContribution - extended reminiscences:\n'The Memorial Biography of Dr. W. G. Grace', issued under the Auspices of The Committee of the MCC, Constable & Company Ltd., London 1919\n\n"}
{"id": "35757833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35757833", "title": "FK Kosonsoy", "text": "FK Kosonsoy\n\nFK Kosonsoy () is Uzbekistani football club based in Kosonsoy, Namangan Province. Currently it plays in Uzbekistan First League\n\nFK Kosonsoy played in first Oliy League season in 1992 under name \"Kosonsoychi Kosonsoy\". The club changed its name several times. Kosonsoy completed 5 seasons in top league of uzbek football. The last season club played in Uzbek League is 1998. In 2013 club played in Uzbekistan First League, Zone \"East\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29486270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29486270", "title": "Government Physical Education College, Dhaka", "text": "Government Physical Education College, Dhaka\n\nGovernment Physical Education College, Dhaka () is a physical education college in Bangladesh which is committed to provide students a chance to study how to keep themselves healthy with lifelong skills.\n\nThe first physical education college was established in 1954 in Gouripur Rajbari of not far off Mymensingh district in Bangladesh. After that in 1955 the college was settled in Armanitola in Dhaka and then it shifted at Darfin hostel of Narinda and Aliya Madrassa. At last finally in 1962 the college was moved permanently at Mohammadpur in Dhaka as the first Government Physical Education College in Bangladesh.\n\nThe Government Physical Education College is a full residential academic institute. It is situated in 7.90 acre land area. There are two student hostels (one for male and another for females), a staff residential building, an administrative building, a college building,a 400-meter running track, a swimming pool, a basketball ground, and a gymnasium at the college. All indoor, outdoor games facilities are available at the college campus. Now The Government Physical Education College is only providing the Bachelor of Physical Education (BP.Ed) Degree.\n\nGovernment Physical Education College, Dhaka is under National University of Bangladesh. All educational and teaching activities are conducted in English at the college.\n\n58th Batch is completing there course. Total Students are 208.\n"}
{"id": "1039434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1039434", "title": "Ground rule double", "text": "Ground rule double\n\nA ground rule double is a baseball rule that awards two bases from the time of pitch to all baserunners including the batter-runner, as a result of the ball leaving play after being hit fairly and leaving the field under a condition of the ground rules in effect at the field where the game is being played. An automatic double is the term used to refer to a fairly hit ball leaving the field in circumstances that do not merit a home run, as described in Major League Baseball (MLB) rules 5.05(a)(6) through 5.05(a)(9). The automatic double (or rule-book double) is quite often mistakenly called a ground rule double.\n\nWhile Major League Baseball has a set of universal ground rules that apply at all ballparks, none of these rules provide for an award of two bases to a runner. A true ground rule double thus is granted only when the ground rules of a specific park come into play—rules created to provide for unique playing conditions of that park. For example, ground rules govern the situation when a batted ball is lodged in the ivy at Wrigley Field or the walkways at Tropicana Field.\n\nThe far more commonly occurring automatic double results from the generally applicable MLB rules 5.05(a)(6) through 5.05(a)(9). These rules govern how to treat the batter (and any runners on base) when a batted ball is hit fair but passes out of the field of play or becomes artificially obstructed while in the field of play. For example, these rules cover balls that hit the ground in fair territory and land out of play, typically by bouncing over a fence or wall in the outfield. MLB rules also provide generically for the award of a double when a batted ball goes through or under a fence; and when it goes through or sticks in shrubbery or vines on the fence.\n\nOne of these MLB Rules (5.05(a)(9)) governs when fair fly balls are deflected into the stands by a fielder: for example, a fair fly ball deflected out of play by a fielder from a point within 250 feet of home plate is considered a double. This applied in an unusual play August 3, when Melky Cabrera of the New York Yankees hit a ball that ricocheted off Kansas City Royals pitcher Ryan Braun's foot and bounced into the stands in foul territory.\n\nWhen two bases are awarded by either ground rules or the automatic rule, any baserunners ahead of the batter are entitled to advance two bases from their positions at the time of pitch. Only in the case of interference is the umpire vested with discretion to award more bases. The ground rule or automatic double frequently results in a runner at first base who appears to have been able to score on the batted ball nevertheless being returned to third base when the ball goes out of play.\n\nIn the early years of baseball, all batted balls that cleared the fence after a bounce in fair territory or on a fly were counted as home runs. The rule was changed by the American League prior to the 1930 season and subsequently by the National League on December 12, 1930. Notably, the pre-1930 rule includes most of Babe Ruth's career. Early baseball statistics do not differentiate between home runs that cleared the fence on a bounce compared to those that did not. However, most baseball historians believe that Ruth likely missed out on more home runs that did \"not\" count due to other differences in the rules in place during his career compared to the number of home runs he likely hit off bounces.\n\n"}
{"id": "39490498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39490498", "title": "Henry &amp; Me", "text": "Henry &amp; Me\n\nHenry & Me is a 2014 American animated drama film directed by Barrett Esposito and written by David I. Stern. The film stars Richard Gere, Chazz Palminteri, Danny Aiello, Cyndi Lauper, Paul Simon, Austin Williams, Lucie Arnaz and Hank Steinbrenner. The film was released on DVD on September 30, 2014.\n\nJack (Austin Williams) is an eleven-going-on-twelve year old boy living a privileged life in upstate New York. He and his parents (Joseph Gian and Lucie Arnaz) are major fans of the New York Yankees and have attended many of their games. As he and his father are called to dinner, Jack goes through a temporary state of anemia and drops the ball. His parents are convinced that something is terribly wrong with their son.\n\nThe scene switches to Jack in the hospital, where he has contracted cancer to the point where he is completely bald. As he is carted away for an operation, his parents stay behind, and his chaperone Nurse Cyndi (Cyndi Lauper) sings a jaunty tune of \"Take Me Out to The Ball Game\" to no avail of lifting the boy's spirits. She leaves Jack outside the room, but not before she treats Jack with a sedative to give him \"sweet dreams\". Unhappy with the hardships brought upon by his newly contracted illness, Jack contemplates the (seemingly) final moments of his life until he is greeted by a guardian angel taking the form of a Yankees executive named Henry (Richard Gere). At first, Jack is hesitant to watch the game while he waits, but unwittingly accepts Henry's offer and the man takes him into a imaginary plane of existence where the 20th century is timeless, illness has no existence, the Yankee players of the past are alive and well and most of all, his hair is back.\n\nHenry and Jack's first stop is early 1930, where they meet Babe Ruth (Chazz Palminteri) in a small field surrounded by corn. He convinces Jack to take the bat, and after a nervous fib about a peanut allergy, strikes out three times. Babe convinces him to try again, yet this time, his fellow teammates laugh Jack off for his age. After successfully stealing home run, Jack bids goodbye and rides off in Henry's 1935 Cord 810 convertible for a fun-filled drive into the skies.\n\nJack and Henry's next stop is mid-1960, where, to Jack's surprise, the original Yankee Stadium is still standing next to the new one. Then in the Yankees' locker room, he meets Lefty Gomez (Luis Guzman), Mickey Mantle, Bobby Murcer and Thurman Munson. Again, Jack is forced into a position on the team, this time to throw the ball from the pitcher's mound. When an actual game ensues, Munson encourages Jack to pitch the ball to Mantle, but he refuses (by saying that he is not a real pitcher). Despite Jack's inexperience, Munson and Jack continue with an upbeat exchange of words until Jack's blood pressure starts to drop, realizing that the game he is fighting for is his life in the physical world. A short montage set to a ballad version of \"Time After Time\" shows Jack in what appears to be Heaven, watching several moments of his life up to the hospital with other kids, and making him concerned for his parents. When he asks Cissy, a girl he met on Henry's subway train, if she misses her mother and father, she replies \"every day\", implying that she too is dead and is living in the imaginary world as a spirit. Cissy and some other baseball kids bid Jack goodbye, but not before she shouts back \"We're all rooting for you!\" With that, Jack wins the battle, and the game.\n\nAutomatically transported to the present, Jack meets the elderly George Steinbrenner, who offers him a place on the team. With the permission of the other team members, among them Yogi Berra, Reggie Jackson and \"Goose\" Gossage, encourage him to be a winner. Magically outfitted with a real Yankee uniform fit for his size, Jack soon finds himself playing alongside Curtis Granderson and Hideki Matsui in a large scale game against the nondescript Boston Red Sox. After the Sox pitcher tips the pitch, causing Matsui to hit the ball into the team bench, Jack quickly whispers Babe Ruth's words into Matsui and later on, he bats the ball so hard it goes straight into the hall of fame.\n\nNighttime falls and Jack asks Henry if he can meet Joe DiMaggio, Roger Maris and Billy Martin, but Henry suggests saving it for another time and decides to have Jack return home. With an impending rainstorm reflecting the borderline of his decision, Jack is unwilling to return to his unhealthy life and considers staying where he can give his body all the health and exorcise he deserves. After running off, leaving his cap behind, Jack is found by Henry in his chair and reveals that he is Lou Gehrig, another player stricken by disease. Taking his advice that he should keep playing for his life, Jack finally gives in and waves goodbye to Henry, Lefty and Babe Ruth, who arrive just in time to see the boy leave into the real world.\n\nNow back in the hospital, Jack wakes up to the joy of his parents and to his surprise is visited by the team. Although Jack is confident that his hair will grow back, Mr. Steinbrenner gives him the right of being called a New York Yankee with a pin, the same kind worn by Henry.\n\nIn a post-credits scene, Henry and Ruth pick up Mr. Steinbrenner in his Cord.\n\nThe film premiered at the Ziegfeld Theatre in New York City on August 18, 2014. The film was released on DVD on September 30, 2014.\n\nThe film began production in 2009. In January 2010, Yankee Stadium announcer Bob Sheppard recorded his dialogue for the film, six months before his death in July 2010. In February 2010, Hank Steinbrenner recorded his dialogue in the role of his father George Steinbrenner. In September 2014, Hank Steinbrenner told \"The Hollywood Reporter\": \"When my dad got sick, my dad actually asked me to do the voice, and that was really the whole start of it. I know that people look at my father as an iconic figure, but I was looking at him more as my father. It was something that I knew I could do, and I was actually really excited to do it. I knew that no one else could bring out the gist of my dad and no one knew him like me. And I always considered myself a pretty good actor in my own right.\" In August 2010, CC Sabathia and Yogi Berra recorded their dialogue for the film.\n\nIn 2013, after the Biogenesis baseball scandal Alex Rodriguez' scenes were cut from the film. The film's producer Joseph Avallone explained: \"Its message of hope in the face of insurmountable odds—as told through the fantastical story of a young boy who goes on a magical journey with the New York Yankees—features, among A-list Hollywood talent, a collection of real-life Yankees, past and present, lending their voices and their spirits to this heartwarming tale. In 2009, Alex Rodriguez accepted an offer to participate in the film, in part, as a way to rehabilitate his image after his first bout with controversy surrounding performance enhancing drugs. When it became clear in summer 2013 that Rodriguez’s commitment to that rehabilitation was not entirely genuine, the film’s producers made the costly and time-consuming, but absolutely essential, decision to remove his voice performance from the final cut in an effort to preserve all of the goodwill that went into making this film—including the work of our charity partners. \"Henry & Me\" is family entertainment first and foremost, and we look forward to children, their parents, and sports fans across the country and around the world discovering the film when it premieres on DVD and digital download this fall.\" He was replaced with Hideki Matsui.\n\n"}
{"id": "22212829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22212829", "title": "Khimki Basketball Center", "text": "Khimki Basketball Center\n\nKhimki Basketball Center, or Khimki Basketball Center of Moscow Region, is an indoor sporting arena that is located in Khimki, Moscow Region, Russia. The total seating capacity of the arena for basketball games is 5,025, which includes the arena's lounge areas. The arena's regular fan seating capacity is 4,000. It is the home arena of the VTB United League professional basketball club Khimki Moscow Region. The arena can also be used to host concerts.\n\nThe main playing hall and stands contain 4,000 seats, the arena complex also includes: two training gyms, six locker rooms (two of which are of NBA level), a press seating section with 45 seats, and 4 commentator cabins, a location setup for TV cameras, a VIP-persons seating section with 164 seats, a media press room center, a post production center, and other features.\n\nThe arena was originally opened in the year 1970. In 2005, it was reconstructed, renovated, and remodeled. After Khimki Moscow Region qualified to play in the 2009–10 EuroLeague season, the arena was again further renovated and updated, and its regular fan seating capacity was increased from 3,500 to 4,000, with the arena's overall capacity being increased to 5,025, including lounge areas. Starting with the 2016–17 EuroLeague season, the EuroLeague no longer allowed Khimki to play its home EuroLeague games at the arena, since it did not meet the EuroLeague's minimum arena seating capacity rule of at least 5,000 regular fan seats.\n\nThe arena was used to host the 2012 EuroCup Final Four.\n\n"}
{"id": "18850365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18850365", "title": "Kirkeby–Over Stadium", "text": "Kirkeby–Over Stadium\n\nKirkeby–Over Stadium is the football stadium of the Augustana University Vikings in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. It is located on the Augustana campus. The stadium opened in 2009 and replaced Howard Wood Field as the home field for the football team. The stadium seats approximately 6,500, including 2,200 chairback seats, and has a FieldTurf surface in a bowl venue. Luxury suites, a spacious press box and private media booths are featured on the west side of the stadium. The facility also boasts high definition television monitors in each suite and plenty of connection options for use by media. Fans are also able to watch the action from grass berms in the end zones.\n\nConstruction of Kirkeby–Over Stadium began in October 2007 on the site of the Vikings’ practice field at 37th Street and Lake Avenue on campus. The completion gave the Vikings an on-campus facility for the first time in half a century. Kari and Bob Hall, who both attended Augustana, donated $6.1 million towards the construction of the stadium. Bob Hall became the equipment manager for the football program. The name honors the memory of Kari Hall’s father and mother, Percy Kirkeby and Elizabeth Markley Kirkeby-Over. Percy Kirkeby graduated from Augustana in 1947 and was a veteran of World War II, serving with the Army Air Corps in Italy. He was killed in a plane crash in 1951. Elizabeth Markley Kirkeby-Over graduated from Augustana in 1944, and died in 1994.\n"}
{"id": "18783216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18783216", "title": "Langland Bay Golf Club", "text": "Langland Bay Golf Club\n\nLangland Bay Golf Club is an 18-hole golf course known in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty overlooking Langland Bay near Swansea, Wales, UK. \n\nThe first evidence of a golf club at Langland Bay is a minute book dating from 1901. The golf course was officially opened on 10 September 1904. The centenary in 2004 was marked by special events and a visit from Prince Andrew, Duke of York.\n\nThe club's members claim Hole 6 is the most difficult in Wales, while Hole 16 is known as \"Death Or Glory\" with the sea on one side and a 100 feet steep drop on the other. The other holes typically have small greens and plenty of rough grass and sand traps. The sea can be easily seen from 15 of its 18 holes. \n\nThe club hosts the Gwalia PGA Pro-Am tournament each year, raising money for the Gwalia Housing Trust.\n"}
{"id": "51921052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51921052", "title": "List of Players cricketers (1806–40)", "text": "List of Players cricketers (1806–40)\n\nThe Gentlemen v Players first-class cricket fixture was first played in 1806 and, despite many difficulties in the early years, it had by 1840 become an established annual event in the English cricket calendar. Apart from the years of the two World Wars, it remained so until 1962. The purpose of the fixture was to match the best of the amateur cricketers (the Gentlemen) against the best of the paid professionals (the Players). The table below summarises the full career record in the fixture of everyone who made their debuts for the Players team in the matches played to 1840.\n\n\nNB: this table is a work in progress, currently complete re the 1806 Players only.\n\n"}
{"id": "42138195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42138195", "title": "List of WNBL awards", "text": "List of WNBL awards\n\nThe Women's National Basketball League (WNBL) presents 7 annual awards and honours to recognise its teams, players, and coaches for their accomplishments. As well as the team award of the WNBL Championship. It is awarded to the winner of each seasons Grand Final.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903739", "title": "Légal Trap", "text": "Légal Trap\n\nThe Légal Trap or Blackburne Trap (also known as Légal Pseudo-Sacrifice and Légal Mate) is a chess opening , characterized by a queen sacrifice followed by checkmate with minor pieces if Black accepts the sacrifice. The trap is named after the French player Sire de Légal (1702–1792). Joseph Henry Blackburne (1841–1924), a British master and one of the world's top five players in the latter part of the 19th century, set the trap on many occasions.\nThere are a number of ways the trap can arise; the one below shows a natural move sequence from a simultaneous exhibition in Paris. André Cheron, one of France's leading players, won with the trap as White against Jeanlose:\n\n1. 2. 3. \n\n4. Nc3 Bg4?!\n\n5. h3 \n\n5... Bh5? (see diagram)\n\n6. Nxe5!\n\n6... Bxd1?? 7. Bxf7+ Ke7 8. Nd5#\n\nThe final position (see diagram) is a pure mate, meaning that for each of the eight squares around the black king, there is exactly one reason the king cannot move there.\nThe original game featured Légal playing at rook odds (without Ra1) against Saint Brie in Paris 1750:\n\n1. e4 e5 2. Nf3 d6 3. Bc4 Bg4?! 4. Nc3 g6? 5. Nxe5 Bxd1?? 6. Bxf7+ Ke7 7. Nd5# 1–0\n\n1. e4 e5 2. Bc4 d6 3. Nf3 Nc6 4. Nc3 Bg4 5. Nxe5? Bxd1?? 6. Bxf7+ Ke7 7. Nd5# 1–0\n\nThis kind of mate, where an apparently pinned knight moves anyway, allowing capture of the queen, but leading to a checkmate with minor pieces, occasionally occurs at lower levels of play, though masters would not normally fall for it. According to Bjerke (\"Spillet i mitt liv\"), the Légal Trap has ensnared countless unwary players. One author writes that \"Blackburne sprang it several hundreds of times during his annual tours.\"\n\nIn general, making a \"trap\" by luring a bishop into a queen capture is not strictly necessary. Any game featuring an advanced knight and Bxf7+ (or ...Bxf2+) followed by mate with minor pieces would be considered a Légal Mate. The mate succeeds because the square of the advanced knight is unguarded, and the enemy king is blocked by several of its own pieces.\n\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "32196957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32196957", "title": "Markaz Shabab Al-Am'ari", "text": "Markaz Shabab Al-Am'ari\n\nMarkaz Shabab Al-Am'ari () is a Palestinian football club, that plays in the West Bank Premier League. 12,500 capacity Faisal Al-Husseini International Stadium is their home venue.\n\nWest Bank Premier League\n\nAFC President's Cup\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7513240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7513240", "title": "Mauritius at the 1988 Summer Olympics", "text": "Mauritius at the 1988 Summer Olympics\n\nMauritius competed at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, Korea.\n\nWomen's Marathon \nTable Tennis (singles)\nTable Tennis (doubles)\n\n"}
{"id": "28099257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28099257", "title": "Moldova at the Paralympics", "text": "Moldova at the Paralympics\n\nMoldova, following its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, made its Paralympic Games début at the 1996 Summer Paralympics in Atlanta, where it sent a five-man delegation to compete in track and field, powerlifting and table tennis. The country has competed in every subsequent edition of the Summer Paralympics, with small delegations. It has never taken part in the Winter Paralympics.\n\nMoldova's two Paralympic medals so far were both won in 1996. Nikolai Tchoumak won bronze in the men's 10,000m race in the T12 category (severe visual impairment), while Vladimir Polkanov won bronze in the men's singles in table tennis, category 8.\n\n"}
{"id": "241985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241985", "title": "Montreal Biodome", "text": "Montreal Biodome\n\nThe Montreal Biodome () is a facility located at Olympic Park in the Montreal neighbourhood of Mercier–Hochelaga-Maisonneuve that allows visitors to walk through replicas of four ecosystems found in the Americas. The building was originally constructed for the 1976 Olympic Games as a velodrome. It hosted both track cycling and judo events. Renovations on the building began in 1989 and in 1992 the indoor nature exhibit was opened.\n\nThe Montreal Biodome is one of four facilities that make part of the largest natural science museum complex in Canada, Space for Life, which also includes the Montreal Insectarium, Montreal Botanical Garden, and Rio Tinto Alcan Planetarium. It is an accredited member of both the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) and the Canadian Association of Zoos and Aquariums (CAZA).\n\nThe building was designed by French architect Roger Taillibert as part of his larger plan for an Olympic park that included the Montreal Olympic Stadium and the Olympic pool. The venue was a combined velodrome and Judo facility. Construction of the building began in August 1973, and the facility was officially opened in April 1976.\n\nThe velodrome, along with the accompanying Olympic pool inspired Tallibert's later designs for Luxembourg's National Sports and Culture Centre.\n\nIn 1988, a feasibility study was conducted for converting the velodrome into a biodome. Construction started in 1989, and the facility was opened to the public on 18 June 1992 as the Montreal Biodome.\n\nIn the summer of 2003, the Biodome installed an audio guide system that lets visitors get information about what they are viewing, and also provides statistics to the facility about what the visitors find most interesting. Visitors can rent a receiver programmed to receive French, Spanish, or English for adults, or French or English for children.\n\nThe facility allows visitors to walk through replicas of four ecosystems found in the Americas:\n\n\nAll the exhibits are housed inside the former velodrome (cycling stadium) that was used for the cycling and judo events of the 1976 Summer Olympics, with each of the four environments taking up a portion of the stadium. A variety of animals live in each simulated habitat, ranging from the macaws in the Tropical Forest, to the lynx in the Laurentian Forest, to the penguins in the Antarctic and the different kinds of fish that inhabit the waters of the Saint Lawrence River. As well, two new species have been discovered living in the Biodome: the acarian \"Copidognathus biodomus\" in the simulated estuary in 1996, and the bacterium \"Nitratireductor aquibiodomus\" in the water reprocessing system in 2003.\n\nIn October 2015, it was announced that both the Biodome and the Insectarium would be closing their doors to the public from September 2016 to December 2017, in order to receive a facelift, as part of one of the many ways to celebrate the city of Montreal's 375th anniversary.; however, in August 2016, the mayor of Montreal cancelled the contract to renovate the Biodome, because the bid results received by the city were much higher than the initial estimates. The facelift project went back to a bidding process, and the Biodome continued to be open to the public through 2017; in 2018, it closed, with reopening planned for the end of summer 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6831532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6831532", "title": "Muzzy Field", "text": "Muzzy Field\n\nMuzzy Field is a stadium in Bristol, Connecticut adjacent to Rockwell Park. It has been in use since 1912 for both baseball and football. The brick-faced grandstand, with a capacity of 4,900 people, was built in 1939. It features a ring of tall pine trees that line the outside of the outfield wall and the grandstand.\n\nMuzzy Field hosts high school sports, primarily baseball and football. Three high schools use the field: Bristol Central High School, Bristol Eastern High School, and Saint Paul Catholic High School. Muzzy Field is the site of the football \"Battle for the Bell\" between Bristol Eastern and Bristol Central, held every Thanksgiving morning, with the winner claiming the bell for the following year.\n\nIn summer, Muzzy Field hosts collegiate baseball teams: since 2015, the Bristol Blues of the Futures Collegiate Baseball League; and formerly, the Bristol Collegiate Baseball Club (2010) and the Bristol Nighthawks (1994-1995), both of the New England Collegiate Baseball League.\n\nMuzzy Field was the home of the Double-A Bristol Red Sox of the Eastern League from 1972 to 1982. Former Boston Red Sox stars Jim Rice, Fred Lynn, and Butch Hobson honed their skills with the \"BriSox.\" The ballpark also housed the old Bristol Owls of the Class-B Colonial League in 1949 and 1950, as well as various amateur baseball teams, notably the Bristol En-Dees and the local American Legion team.\n\nThe University of Hartford's baseball program used the venue for some home games prior to opening Fiondella Field in 2006. Muzzy Field was the site of the Big East Conference baseball championship tournament from 1985–1995.\n\nIn 1991, Joe Archambeault put together a barnstorming exhibition New England Grey Sox team, including former Boston Red Sox players and other major-leaguers including Bill \"Spaceman\" Lee, Mark \"The Bird\" Fidrych, Bob Stanley, Dick McAuliffe, Dick Radatz, Ozzie Virgil, and Mike Stenhouse. They played against a team of local men, the Undefeated Bristol Fradette Agency, on June 1, 1991, in front of 5,000 fans.\n\nIn 2004 the stadium was also the site of an \"American Idol\" audition.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013, the City of Bristol approved a renovation of the ballpark to include a new front entrance and public concourse, new lighting, seating, ADA improvements and a new grandstand enclosure along the Muzzy Street side of the stadium connecting to the existing grandstand.\n\nFurther renovations in 2015, coinciding with the arrival of the Bristol Blues club, included a new rooftop press box, an extension of the roof, and an electronic sign at the corner of Park and Muzzy Streets to advertise events.\n\n"}
{"id": "15425595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15425595", "title": "Nairobi City Stars", "text": "Nairobi City Stars\n\nNairobi City Stars is an association football club based in Nairobi, Kenya. They currently compete in the Kenyan Premier League.\n\nThe club was founded in 2003 as World Hope Football Club, when it took over Kawangware FC, who had been relegated from the Premier League. After one season in the Nationwide League, World Hope was promoted to the Kenyan Premier League. The club was owned by World Hope International, a charitable organisation.\n\nIn October 2008, the club was bought by Ambassadors in Sport (AIS Kenya), who renamed the club to Nairobi City Stars FC after the 2008 season. The name is after Cleveland City Stars. Musa Otieno, Kenyan international footballer who has also played for Cleveland City Stars is one of the leading figures behind the new club. Nairobi City Stars retained the home ground Hope Centre, located in Kawangware suburb of Nairobi. Nairobi City Stars was initially coached by German manager Oliver Page, who is a former Bundesliga player. He resigned from the post half-season in June 2009 despite good results, citing personal issues \n\nThe club's mission statement states they will use the club's profile to raise awareness of and combat poverty, HIV/AIDS, ethnic strife and corruption.\n\nThe club have an academy known as the Vapour FC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50443666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50443666", "title": "Natalia Pichuzhkina", "text": "Natalia Pichuzhkina\n\nNatalia Nikolaevna Pichuzhkina (; born 3 June 1991 in Zavolzhye, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast) is a Russian group rhythmic gymnast.\n\nPichuzkina debuted in international junior scene in 2004 and competed in international competitions along with teammate Evgenia Kanaeva. She won gold medals in team and clubs at the 2006 European Junior Championships.\n\nIn 2009, Pichuzkina switched to group rhythmic gymnastics. She competed in her first Worlds at the 2009 World Championships in Mie, Japan where the Russian group won bronze in group all-around and 3 Ribbons + 2 Ropes, they won gold in 5 hoops. The following year they swept the gold medals at the 2010 European Championships in group all-around, 5 hoops, 3 ribbons/ 2 ropes. They repeated as bronze medalists in group all-around at the 2010 World Championships in Moscow, however they won gold in the 5 hoops, 3 ribbons/ 2 ropes finals.\n\nAt the 2011 World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships, Pichuzkina together with the Russian group won the gold medal in 5 balls event and a silver medal in the group all-around event. In 2012, she suffered a leg injury and was replaced by Russian Group reserve member Karolina Sevastyanova to compete at the 2012 European Championships.\n\n"}
{"id": "17358767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17358767", "title": "Netherlands national badminton team", "text": "Netherlands national badminton team\n\nThe Netherlands national badminton team represents the Netherlands in international badminton team competitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28704902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28704902", "title": "Pakistan cricket spot-fixing scandal", "text": "Pakistan cricket spot-fixing scandal\n\nThe Pakistan cricket spot-fixing scandal was a scandal centering on certain members of Pakistan's national cricket team, who were convicted of taking bribes from a bookmaker, Mazhar Majeed, to deliberately underperform at certain times in a Test match at Lord's, London, in 2010.\n\nUndercover reporters from \"News of the World\" secretly videotaped Mazhar Majeed accepting money and informing the reporters that fast bowlers Asif and Amir would deliberately bowl no-balls at specific points in an over. This information could be used by gamblers to place bets with inside information (i.e. spot-fixing). In response to these allegations, Scotland Yard arrested Majeed on a charge of match fixing. The International Cricket Council (ICC) banned three players—Salman Butt, Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Amir—for terms of between 5 and 10 years. In November 2011, Butt and Asif were found guilty by a London court on criminal charges relating to spot-fixing. Amir and Majeed had entered guilty pleas on the same charges. All four were given prison sentences, ranging from six months to 32 months.\n\nIn July 2010, the ICC Anti Corruption and Security Unit served notices to two unnamed players seeking information into allegations of spot and match fixing. These notices were sent out to the players following England's first 2010 Test Match against Pakistan, at Nottingham. The notices informed the players that the ACSU was seeking certain information and gave the pair 14 days to respond.\n\nIn August 2010, reporters from \"News of the World\" established contact with Mazhar Majeed, a sports agent who was suspected of involvement in match-fixing. In the video posted by \"News of the World\", Majeed, counting out the bribe money, predicted that Amir would be bowling the third over in the fourth test at Lord's, and that the first ball of the over would be a no-ball delivery. Amir did bowl the third over, and on his first delivery from the over, bowled a no-ball delivery. Commentary described the delivery as an \"enormous no-ball, good half a metre over the line\". Majeed also predicted that the sixth delivery of the tenth over would be a no-ball, and that ball, delivered by Asif, was also a no-ball delivery.\n\nYawar Saeed, the Pakistan team manager, declined to call for the resignation of team captain Salman Butt, implicated in the scandal. PCB president Ijaz Butt maintained that the players were innocent. At the same time, former Pakistan captain Rashid Latif suggested that the spot-fixing controversy might be a set-up and that the leaked video contained a certain number of ambiguities. Iqbal Mohammad Ali, a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan and chairman of the standing committee on sports, called for the removal of the players in question from the team.\n\nSalman Butt, Mohammad Asif and Mohammad Amir were each named in the \"News of the World\" investigation. All three players maintained their innocence of the charges levelled against them, but were suspended pending an investigation by the International Cricket Council, which determined that they \"had an arguable case to answer\", on 4 September 2010.\n\nWajid Shamsul Hasan, the Pakistani High Commissioner to the United Kingdom, claimed that the players had been \"set up\" and were innocent of the charges. He condemned the ICC decision.\n\nButt subsequently filed an appeal to have his suspension lifted. Asif and Amir and followed suit and the ICC announced that a hearing would be held in Qatar on 30 and 31 October. The interior ministry announced that the passports of the three cricketers had been given back to them so that they could travel to Qatar. Seven days before the appeal began Mohammad Asif announced that he had withdrawn his appeal because he wanted to understand the charges against him. Butt and Amir announced that their appeals were to continue. The ICC moved the hearing to the UAE. Salman Butt announced that he hoped the appeals would be completed quickly so that he could make a swift return to international cricket and participate in the series against South Africa in October 2010. Their initial appeal against the suspension was rejected on 31 October 2010. Butt and Amir hit out at the ICC saying that, although the ruling went against them, they weren't informed of the reasons for the decision.\n\nA tribunal to decide the fates of the players was held in January 2011 The panel comprised Michael Beloff, Albie Sachs and Sharad Rao – all with previous experience in sporting trials. Butt and Amir objected to the selection of Beloff, contending that, as the head of the ICC disciplinary committee, he had a conflict of interest in favour of the ICC over the three cricketers. This was shown, they claimed, when he voted against lifting their suspensions. Butt's lawyer, Aftab Gul, withdrew from the case because he doubted his client would receive justice. The ICC also said that because the story was broken by \"News of the World\", its reporters would feature in the case. A decision was deferred to 5 February 2011.\n\nOn 5 February 2011, it was announced that the ICC had banned all three players—Butt for ten years, of which five were suspended, Asif for seven years, of which two were suspended, and Amir for five years. The suspension of sentences for Butt and Asif were conditional on each \"[committing] no further breach of the code and...[participating] under the auspices of the Pakistan Cricket Board in a programme of anti-corruption education\". All three players were allowed to file an appeal with the Court of Arbitration for Sport.\n\nIn response to the announcement, \"The Independent\" said that \"the game was at last standing up to its responsibilities,\" while \"The Guardian\" claimed that \"the urgency to deliver a fierce deterrent to players everywhere has outweighed the need to make the punishment fit the crime.\"\n\nAs a result of the newspaper report, Scotland Yard announced the same day that they had arrested Majeed on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud bookmakers. Two days later, after the Test match had been completed, three more arrests were made (two unidentified men and an unidentified woman) on suspicion of money laundering in connection with the allegations. Police also seized the cell phones of Asif, Amir, and Salman Butt as part of their investigations. Scotland Yard announced on 17 September 2010 that the initial file of the investigation had been passed on to the Crown Prosecution Service for them to decide whether to charge the players or not. On 5 November 2010 Scotland Yard announced that they had passed on the second file of fixing evidence to the Crown Prosecution Service. This moved the case one step closer to the courts.\n\nOn 1 November 2011, at Southwark Crown Court, Majeed, Asif, Amir and Butt were found guilty of conspiracy to cheat at gambling and conspiracy to accept corrupt payments. Majeed and Amir were convicted following guilty pleas. The judge, Jeremy Cooke, rejected a plea in mitigation from Amir that he had been involved in spot-fixing on only one occasion, on the grounds that the contents of text messages submitted as evidence suggested otherwise.\n\nThe convictions were broadly accepted and welcomed within the world of cricket. Former Pakistan captain Aamer Sohail spoke of a \"shameful\" day for Pakistani cricket, adding \"this is what happens when you don't react quickly enough to fight corruption\". Former Pakistan Cricket Board chair Khalid Mehmood described the case as \"an example for cricket in the future\".\n\nOn 3 November 2011, jail terms were handed down of 30 months for Butt, one year for Asif, six months for Amir and two years eight months for Majeed.\n\nThen-Australia captain Ricky Ponting expressed concern over the addition of an Australian victory against Pakistan to a list of more than 80 previous matches under investigation. The match was scrutinized but was soon cleared due to lack of evidence. Australia won the match, despite a large first-innings deficit.\n\nCroydon Athletic F.C. was bought in 2008 by Mazhar Majeed. The football club was investigated by HM Revenues and Customs due to allegations that Majeed had been using the club for money-laundering purposes. Majeed had been recorded by an undercover journalist stating that was the only reason he had bought the club. This led to the manager and his assistant leaving the club after a match on 4 September 2010. Less than a month later on 2 October, the club's chairman David Le Cluse was found dead in a garage in Sutton with a bullet wound to his head. In February 2011, a verdict of suicide was recorded at Croydon Coroner's Court.\n\nAfter the spot-fixing scandal emerged Pakistan registered a victory against England in the third ODI and the ICC announced the match was under investigation due to suspicious behaviour. The ICC carried out a thorough investigation and the Pakistani team and players were given the all-clear to continue playing. Speculation about fixing in the third-ODI ended as the investigation closed.\n\nThe ICC announced that a match between South Africa and Pakistan on 10 May 2010 was under investigation for spot-fixing. The ICC anti-corruption unit stated that two players had been questioned and that more details would be given in the next 24 hours. Pakistan won the toss and elected to Bat. In the end, Pakistan won the match by beating South Africa comfortably.\n\nPakistani cricketer, Yasir Hameed denied the allegations published in \"News of the World\" that he had turned down a bookmaker's offer of £100,000 to help fix a Test. Hameed had allegedly told the newspaper that \"almost every match\" was fixed and criticised the players involved. Yasir Hameed denied the allegations, saying that he thought he was talking to a potential sponsor, and only stated what he read on the news. In November 2010, wicketkeeper Zulqarnain Haider left the Pakistani cricket team before their fifth and decisive one-day game against South Africa, and flew from Dubai (where the series was being held) to London's Heathrow Airport. Haider asked for asylum and claimed that he had been threatened to throw the game. Haider's Pakistani stipend was suspended by the Pakistani Cricket Board. The board expressed disappointment that Haider had left the team and flown to London instead of reporting the threats to the PCB and the ICC's anti-corruption unit.\n\n"}
{"id": "47924685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47924685", "title": "Pine Bowl (Stadium)", "text": "Pine Bowl (Stadium)\n\nPine Bowl is a 4,000-seat multi-purpose stadium in Loretto, Pennsylvania, United States. It was home to the Saint Francis University Red Flash football team. The facility opened in 1979.\nIt was replaced by DeGol Field in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "49312130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49312130", "title": "Rajamangala University of Technology Thanyaburi Satadium", "text": "Rajamangala University of Technology Thanyaburi Satadium\n\nRajamangala University of Technology Thanyaburi Satadium () is a multi-purpose stadium in Pathum Thani Province, Thailand. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Rangsit F.C.. The stadium holds ? people.\n"}
{"id": "1164721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1164721", "title": "Royal Grammar School, Guildford", "text": "Royal Grammar School, Guildford\n\nThe Royal Grammar School, Guildford (originally \"The Free School\"), commonly known as the RGS, is a selective independent day school for boys in Guildford, Surrey in England. The school dates its founding to the death of Robert Beckingham in 1509 who left provision in his will to 'make a free scole at the Towne of Guldford'; in 1512 a governing body was set up to form the school. The school moved to the present site in the upper High Street after the granting of a royal charter from King Edward VI in 1552. Around that time, its pupils were playing cricket and their activity was later documented as the earliest definite reference to the sport. The school's Old Building, constructed between 1557 and 1586, is the home of a rare example of a chained library. It was established on the death of John Parkhurst, Bishop of Norwich, in 1575. Although defined as a \"free\" school, the first statutes of governance, approved in 1608, saw the introduction of school fees, at the rate of 4 shillings per annum, along with the school's first admissions test. During the late 19th century the school ran into financial difficulty, which nearly resulted in the closure of the school. A number of rescue options were explored, including amalgamation with Archbishop Abbott's School. Funds were eventually raised, however, which allowed the school to remain open, although boarding was no longer offered.\n\nFee paying continued until the school adopted voluntary controlled status under the Education Act 1944; thereafter tuition was free and the common entrance examination at 11 was introduced. Soon after, in 1958, the school expanded with the construction of the New Building in the grounds of Allen House, a building used for a number of years as a boarding house and later as classrooms. Allen House was later demolished in 1964 just after the completion of the New Building. During December 1962 the historic Old Building caught fire, damaging a large part of it, including the two oldest rooms in the school. The damage was so great the reconstruction took over two years. The school became independent and fee paying in 1977, when the parents and staff raised sufficient funds to purchase the school following concerns about the abolition of grammar school status with the introduction of comprehensive education.\n\nThe school initially educated 30 of the \"poorest men's sons\", though has since grown to have approximately 900 students, about 300 of whom are in the sixth form. The majority of pupils, approximately two thirds, enter at age 11 in the first form, a few (3-5 pupils) enter in the second form at the age of 12, with the remainder entering at 13 in the third form. Admissions are based on an entrance examination set by the school, and an interview. The school performs well academically, and as such is placed high on published league tables. A number of students achieve places at either Oxford or Cambridge universities. The school partakes in a number of sporting activities, and has enjoyed some success, including finishing within the top two in the Daily Mail Cup twice. The school maintains a grammar school ethos, and as such runs a number of outreach programmes for students from local maintained schools, for which it won the Independent School Award 2010 for Outstanding Community/ Public Benefit Initiative. The Headmaster is a member of the Headmasters' and Headmistresses' Conference.\n\nThe founding of the school dates to 1509 and the death of Robert Beckingham, a wealthy grocer, a member of the Worshipful Company of Grocers and a Freeman of the City of London. In his will he requested that the parishioners of St Olave's Church, Southwark, should obtain a licence to endow a chantry priest to say masses for his soul. If they failed to do this within two years of his death, his executors had discretion either to use the property to 'make a free scole at the Towne of Guldford' or to put the income to some other good charitable use. The licence was not obtained within the required time, and so in 1512, Beckingham's executors formally conveyed the lands in the bequest to a body of trustees consisting of the Mayor of Guildford and four 'sad and discrete men' who had formerly been mayors. With the rents, they were to provide a free grammar school in Guildford with a 'sufficient schoolmaster', to teach thirty \"of the poorest-men's sons\" to read and write English and cast accounts perfectly, so that they would be fit to become apprentices. The school was built in 1520 in Castle Ditch (now Castle Street) with financial assistance from Guildford municipal corporation.\n\nOver the coming years the school ran into financial difficulty and so \"The Mayor and Approved Men\" of Guildford petitioned Edward VI to grant them further endowments for maintenance. One of the King's closest advisers, William Parr, had a particular affection for the town, having himself spent a large amount of time at the King's manor house in Guildford, and it was he who advised the King to re-appropriate some of the funds arising from the Abolition of the Chantries Acts to the school. Thus in January 1552 Edward VI ordered that there was to be \"one Grammar School in Guildford called the Free Grammar School of King Edward VI for the education, institution and instruction of boys and youths in Grammar at all future times forever to endure\", along with a grant of 20 pounds per year; the school acquired therewith the right to style itself a Royal Grammar School. The high street site was purchased in 1555 with the construction of the Grade I listed Tudor Old Building starting in 1557. Construction was completed in 1586.\n\nIn the years around 1550, a pupil at the school was John Derrick who in later life became a Queen's Coroner for the county of Surrey. In 1597, Derrick made a legal deposition that contains the earliest definite reference to cricket being played anywhere in the world. This is preserved in the \"Constitution Book\" of Guildford. On Monday, 17 January 1597 (Julian date and thus 1598 by modern reckoning), he bore written testimony as to a parcel of land in the parish of Holy Trinity in Guildford which, originally waste, had been appropriated and enclosed by one John Parvish to serve as a timber yard. This land, said Derrick, he had known for fifty years past and:\n\n\"Being a scholler in the ffree schoole of Guldeford, hee and diverse of his fellows did runne and play there at creckett and other plaies\".\n\nJohn Derrick was then aged 59 and his testimony confirms that cricket was being played by children in Surrey c.1550 and it is perhaps significant that cricket is the only one of the \"plaies\" referred to by name. Derrick was a coroner and so it must be assumed his deposition was accurate.\n\nThe death of John Parkhurst, the Bishop of Norwich, in 1575 resulted in the founding of the school's chained library. In his will he gave \"the most parte of all my Latten bookes whereof shall be made a catalogue as shortelie as I may God sendinge me lief\", although obtaining these books was not without its difficulties. Initially the executors of his will used \"all the cullerable shifts and practices\" to prevent the books from moving to the school. These continued to such an extent that the mayor was forced to complain to the Lord High Treasurer, William Cecil, who summoned the executors to London. Upon a hearing with the executors, the Lord Treasurer referred them to Sir Walter Mildmay who was Chancellor of the Exchequer at the time. He demanded that the executors give everything left in the Will to the school. Following the ruling, however, the books passed to Edmund Freke, the new Bishop of Norwich, who kept them for himself at his residence. This continued until the school obtained letters from Her Majesty's Privy Council requiring the books be delivered. The books then finally arrived at the school several years late, although the Bishop kept a number of the best for himself. Since this date the library has been added to, most notably between 1600 and 1800. The library is housed within the Gallery (now the Headmaster's Study) in the Old Building, with the present bookcases dating from 1897. The oldest book within the library was printed in Venice around 1480, with the oldest English book printed in about 1500 bearing the imprint of Wynkyn de Worde. Today the library is one of the few remaining examples of a chained library located within a school.\n\nAfter the granting of the charter, it took 50 years before the first set of statutes to govern the school were completed. The Bishop of Winchester approved the statutes on 16 September 1608, and they constituted a major change in the way the school was run. Until this point the boys were instructed in English and accounting, but following the statutes lessons were in the subjects of Latin and Greek; with students required to speak in Latin unless licensed by the master to do otherwise. Admissions following the charter also changed, with \"none to be admitted scholar into the said school before he be brought to the schoolmaster of that school, and upon his examination shall be found to have learned the rudiments of grammar, called the Accidence.\" All scholars from the town of Guildford were required to pay the master 5 shillings on admission to the school, and for those from outside the town the charge was 10s. The number of pupils at the school was capped at 100, although this number was rarely reached. The statues also saw the introduction of school fees. Although defined as a \"free\" school, fees were still charged at the rate of 4s. per annum, paid as 9d. per quarter for the provision of \"rods and brooms\", with an additional shilling due on the feast of St. Michael, which was used to pay for \"clean, wax candles\".\n\nOn the death of Joseph Nettles (an old boy of the school) in 1691 the school's first university scholarship was founded. Nettles left eleven acres of land in his will to his daughter Elizabeth Brindley, then following her death to Sir Richard Onslow and his heirs, with the rents from the land to be paid to the school for the maintenance of a scholar at Oxford or Cambridge. The scholar was to be a son of a freeman of the town of Guildford who \"should have read some Greek author\" and \"be well instructed and knowing in the Latin tongue\". His fitness in these fields was tested by the master of the school, and the rectors of the parishes of Stoke next Guildford and St. Nicholas in Guildford. If admitted to any college within the universities, he would then receive the rents from the lands for six years. At the end of six years, upon the scholar's death, or his removal from the university (whichever the sooner), another scholar was selected. If no scholar was deemed suitable and a vacancy arose, then the next scholar selected would receive the standard yearly rate, along with any rents acquired during the vacancy. The rents arising from the lands were roughly £23 per year. The scholarship ceased to be awarded at some point after 1951.\n\nIn 1866 the then headmaster Revd Henry G Merriman (headmaster 1859–75) purchased Allen House, a large house set in extensive grounds which stood opposite the school. The house took its name from Anthony Allen, Master of Chancery and Mayor of Guildford in 1740. This was initially used as a boarding house for the school between 1866–74 before later being purchased by Surrey County Council in 1921 and was used by the school until its demolition in 1964. The grounds surrounding the house were purchased in 1914 by HA Powell and donated to the school as playing fields.\n\nDuring the mid to late 19th century the school fell into disrepair and decay. Guildford Municipal Charities established a committee to report into the general condition of the school and the buildings. The committee reported in 1881 that the school had no funds available for repairs and that there were only nine boys \"instead of the former ordinary number of 100\". Various suggestions were made by the Charity Commission to raise funds for the school, including a reorganisation with Archbishop Abbot's School. The Committee for Maintaining Higher Education in Guildford was established in March 1887 to oppose the Charity Commission's draft scheme to amalgamate the RGS, Nettle's Charity and Archbishop Abbot's School. The committee raised (approximately £108,000 in 2010) towards the restoration of the RGS, ensuring its survival. A new Charity Commission scheme came into effect in November 1888 which resulted in the Old Building being restored, and the school's continuation as a day only school. Several years later under the Education Act 1944 the school adopted voluntary controlled status; tuition was therefore free and entrance was to be by common examination at the age of eleven.\n\nThe construction of the New Building started in 1958 in the grounds of Allen House and initially consisted of a gymnasium, assembly hall, dining hall and kitchens, caretaker's flat, staff common rooms, junior library, cloakrooms and changing rooms, eight classrooms, science lecture theatre, five science laboratories, geography and art rooms, and various offices, stores and smaller rooms arranged in a J shape. The construction of the initial building was finished in 1963.\n\nOn the morning of , a fire broke out in the Old Building. It caused widespread damage to a large part of the structure, including the two oldest rooms in the school, School Room and Big School. The main concern was to prevent the books contained within the chained library from being damaged, either by fire or water from the fire brigade's hoses. The damage to the building was so great that rebuilding took over 2 years, with the unusually cold winter of 1962–1963 delaying the restoration. Lessons, however, continued throughout on the Allen House side of the high street.\n\nThe school became independent in 1977 when the parents and staff of the school, led by the Chairman of the Governors, John Fergrieve Brown, raised sufficient funds to purchase the school. The RGS then withdrew from the government maintained system, becoming independent and fee paying. This was followed in 1978 by the purchase of Lanesborough Preparatory School which became the junior school, preparing boys for entry to the RGS at either 11 or 13.\n\nMore recently in 2003 construction finished on a new Sports Centre with Fitness Suite and All Weather Training Area with Shooting Range. Followed in 2006 with refurbishments to the Old Building site; the old gymnasium was converted into a Sixth Form Centre and the Victorian science laboratories (some of the earliest in the country) converted into the Art School.\n\nIn 2009/2010 the school celebrated the quincentennial anniversary of the founding of the school by Robert Beckingham; numerous events were organised, including a new musical work based loosely on the school hymn \"To be a Pilgrim\". This year also saw a visit from Princess Anne, The Princess Royal.\n\nRGS Guildford is due to open a campus in Doha, Qatar as part of Qatar's Outstanding Schools Program. RGS Guildford in Qatar will open initially to boys and girls ages three to seven years old (pre-school to year 2) in September, with the rest of the primary school slated to open in 2017. According to Bob Ukaih the school aims to open two separate single-sex secondary schools - one for girls and one for boys - in Doha by September 2018.\n\nOctober 2016 saw the opening of the John Brown building which was built replacing Trevone House for the Classics, Economics, History and Politics departments as well as for Design Technology. The building incorporates modern ecological design with a roof terrace and glass bridge connecting it to the first floor of the Main Building.\n\nAs in most schools in the UK there are three terms in the academic year:\n\nThere are six houses at the RGS, named after various benefactors of the school:\n\nEach pupil is assigned to one of the six houses upon joining the school, and a pupil's house can be indicated to others by optional colour-related clothing. If someone joins as the second in their direct family to do so, they are put in the same house as their relative. There are inter-house competitions throughout the year (including rugby, hockey, reading, and chess) and then at the end of the year the points awarded in each event throughout the year are added up, and the house with most points is awarded the Cock House Cup, which is the traditional name given in British public schools for the in-school competition cup.\n\nThe school's official livery colour is green, picked as a house-neutral colour.\n\nThe school's uniform up to the end of Fifth Form is a white shirt, dark or light grey trousers and a single-breasted navy blue school blazer. A grey or dark blue, v-neck pullover with or without sleeves may also be worn. For the lower and upper sixth, navy blue or grey suits are instead worn, and upper sixth formers are permitted to wear pastel shaded shirts. A woollen scarf in the school colours: green, red and white; the sixth form scarf has longitudinal stripes. All years are required to wear one of the approved school ties. Various ties are awarded for sporting, artistic or social achievements, along with half and full colours awarded for services to the school and house colours awarded for services to the house; Senior Prefect ties are awarded to those with the position. Recently there have also been commemorative ties celebrating 450 years since the granting of the Royal Charter, and 500 years since the founding of the school.\n\nSport is compulsory for all years during games periods and if selected for a team can require compulsory attendance on Saturdays. A once pupil at the school, John Derrick, is connected with the earliest mention of cricket in England when, in a 1598 court case about an ownership dispute over a plot of common land in Guildford, he gave witness that when he was a scholar at the \"Free School at Guildford\", \"hee and diverse of his fellows did runne and play [on the common land] at creckett and other plaies.\"\nThe sports of badminton, cross country running, fencing, football, golf, judo, rowing, sailing, swimming, target shooting and tennis are available, the list varies by year and term. Sixth form also have a \"Spectrum\" games option where boys are permitted to use any of the facilities at Guildford Spectrum during the games period.\n\nThe school has enjoyed some success in rugby where it has had first and second places at various levels of the Daily Mail Cup.\n\nOn 6 February 2016, Jack Clifford became the first Old Guildfordian to become a full England rugby international when he made his full debut as a replacement for Chris Robshaw during the Calcutta Cup match on 6 February 2016 after 69 minutes.\n\nSince 2003 the six Royal Grammar Schools (Colchester, High Wycombe, Guildford, Lancaster, Newcastle, Worcester) have held the \"RGS Cricket Festival\", hosted by a different school each year. It is based on a round robin format and held over a period of five days towards the end of the Trinity term.\n\nThe school has no playing fields on the town centre site. A ground called Bradstone Brook, located a few miles away in the village of Chilworth, is the location of the rugby and cricket pitches. There is a single AstroTurf located at the main school for hockey and football. The majority of hockey takes place at Guildford Hockey Club, located at Broadwater School in Farncombe or Surrey Sports Park. Athletics and swimming both take place at Guildford Spectrum.\n\nMusic is part of the core curriculum for first to third forms. Pupils take lessons with peripatetic music staff within different disciplines. There is a symphony orchestra composed of students, along with several other smaller classical ensembles. The RGS choir perform regularly in Guildford Cathedral, and have in the past performed at The Royal Albert Hall. In addition to classical music, there are also a number of jazz and rock bands within the school as well, and to recognise this in addition to the four main music prizes awarded each year, there is an additional contemporary music prize.\n\nDrama is offered as an academic subject from the first form, Plays are staged for all year groups in association with local girls schools. The department has an auditorium which was converted from the old gymnasium as well as the Hansford Room studio sited in the North Building.\n\nPeriod 8 is for extra-curricular activities which include Combined Cadet Force, outdoor pursuits, Scouts, lifesaving and community service. There are five field days in the year, on which these activities take place. Before the third form, pupils have the opportunity to decide between the CCF, outdoor pursuits and the scouts. The Duke of Edinburgh's Award scheme is 'Hors Combat' for choice, being available to all students, regardless of their other options, so no longer officially constitutes part of period 8.\n\nThere are several dozen clubs and societies at the school, many of these are where pupils get together to discuss a topic of particular interest sometimes with a guest speaker. Past speakers include the ex-government drug adviser Professor David Nutt.\n\n\"The Register\" (originally \"Really Good Stuff\") is a termly newsletter documenting achievements at the school.\n\nInitially tuition at the school was free, funded by various endowments and rents obtained from lands the most significant arising from the Abolition of the Chantries Acts, and the re-appropriation of funds to the school. In 1944 under the Education Act education remained free, however the common entrance exam at eleven was introduced and the school became a selective grammar school. School fees were introduced in 1977 when the school withdrew from the maintained system and became independent. For the year 2013/2014 they are £14,670 (approximately €17,900 or US$24,500 as of March 2014) per year excluding lunches. All those wishing to be admitted now take the school's own internal 11+ entrance examination which tests English, mathematics and verbal reasoning and attend an interview with two members of staff. If a place is awarded, entry can de deferred for two years so that boys who are at prep school may enter at thirteen. Those entering at thirteen must take the 13+ Common Entrance or the scholarship examination to confirm their place.\n\nNumerous scholarships are available at both 11+ and 13+ for music, academic achievement, and one for art at thirteen. Music and academic scholarships range in value between 5%–20% with one Kings Scholarship available for a 20% reduction in fees. These scholarships are awarded based on performance in subject specific exams or performances, and an interview with the headmaster for academic or music scholarships, or the presentation of a portfolio of work for the art scholarship. Until the start of the 2009/2010 academic year, the value of scholarships was substantially higher with the King's Scholarships worth 50% of the fees and a range of lower scholarships between 10–30%.\n\nThe school is a registered charity and currently has three charities registered with the Charities Commission: \"King Edward VI's Grammar School (The Royal Grammar School), Guildford\", \"The Royal Grammar School Guildford\" (representing the governors), and \"The Royal Grammar School Guildford Foundation\" After the withdrawal of the Assisted Places Scheme in 1997 the social diversity of the school decreased, as a result the school began to offer bursaries to students whose parents could not afford the fees, with the first bursary offered in 2007.\n\nThe school also runs numerous outreach programmes for children from maintained schools in the local area, including a series of master-classes in science, mathematics, technology, languages and drama for local primary school children. Also for primary school children is the Tudor Experience Project where students can explore the Tudor past of the school through a number of activities. At the higher end of the school, numerous careers and university seminars are run for sixth form students from the local area, in addition to Oxbridge preparation classes and practice interviews for local sixth form students. The school also runs several more outreach programmes, and as a result of these initiatives was recently awarded the Independent School Award 2010 for Outstanding Community/Public Benefit Initiative.\n\nThe post of headmaster (schoolmaster or just master as it was originally known) was created following the grant of the Royal Charter in 1552, with the first appointment made in 1554. There have been 35 appointments since the creation of the position. Until the re-organisation of the school in 1888 the post was almost exclusively filled by men from a religious background, with the first headmaster being Sir Lawson, a friar from the monastery in Guildford that was dissolved in 1538. The most notable headmaster was Roger Goad (1569–1575), who was Provost of Kings College, Cambridge and three times Vice-Chancellor of the University of Cambridge; he was headmaster during the time when George Abbot (Archbishop of Canterbury 1611–1633) was at the school.\n\nFollowing the announcement of the formation of a partner school in Qatar, the school came under fire from current and former pupils, as well as concerned members of the public, due to the country's poor human rights record. An online petition was started by a former pupil in April 2016 challenging the decision to open the school, however, this proved unsuccessful and \"The Royal Grammar School Guildford in Qatar\" (RGSGQ) opened for pupils on 19 September 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2147428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2147428", "title": "SOG Knife", "text": "SOG Knife\n\nThe SOG knife was designed for, and issued to, covert Studies and Observations Group personnel during the Vietnam War. It was unmarked and supposedly untraceable to country of origin or manufacture in order to maintain plausible deniability of covert operators in the event of their death or capture.\nThe SOG Knife was designed by Benjamin Baker, the Deputy Chief of the U.S. Counterinsurgency Support Office (CISO). A chrome-moly steel known as SKS-3 was chosen for the blade and hardened to a Rockwell hardness of 55-57. The blade pattern featured a convex false edge on the clip point of a Bowie knife. The stacked leather handle was inspired by a Marbles Gladstone Skinning Knife made in the 1920s owned by Baker, into which finger grooves were molded. The blade was typically parkerized or blackened to reduce glare. This was done so by applying a dark gun-blue finish (similar to those used on guns) on this carbon steel knife. The knife was carried in a leather sheath which contained a sharpening steel or whetstone.\n\nThe first contract was awarded to Japanese Trading Company Yogi Shokai for 1,300 seven-inch blades designated \"Knife, indigenous, RECON, 7\", w/scabbard & whetstone\" at $9.85 each. In 1966, SOG ordered 1,200 sterile knives with six-inch blades and black sheaths and in March of the following year an additional lot of 3,700 was ordered. This second lot was serial numbered for accountability purposes and was designated \"Knife, indigenous, hunting, 6\", w/black sheath and whetstone\". Further knives were ordered from Japan Sword as well. The orders were actually fulfilled by a number of knifemakers and as a result, the various lots had minor differences\nsuch as blade bluing color and guard color or shape. Although the SOG office based at Kadena and Yogi Shokai were in Okinawa, it is believed that only a major knifemaking source like Seki could have fulfilled all these orders,\n\nIn 1986, a company named SOG Specialty Knives based in Santa Monica, California marketed a knife very similar to the original SOG knife manufactured in Seki City, Japan and marked it with the US Army Special Forces Crest., and named it the \"S1 Bowie\", using blued SK5 carbon steel for the blade. It was a replica of the commemorative versions of the original MACV-SOG knives, rather than the actual sterile unmarked knives used in combat. SOG made a version with an Aus8 stainless steel blade and black micarta handle in commemoration of the U.S. Navy SEALs., known as the \"SOG S2 Trident\". \nThe other Vietnam replica knife is known as the \"Recon Bowie\" by SOG with a distinctive banana shaped 7 inch blade. This type of knife was actually the first to go into service in Vietnam.\nThe last replica knife is the \"SCUBA/Demo\" which was introduced in 2001, and represents the rarest knife\nin this group as only one true original is reported to exist, It was created for and assigned to the\nUSN Advisory Detachment, which operated coastal gunboats. The S1 and S2 knives were manufactured by Hattori of Seki under contract to SOG Knives USA from 1986 to 2005, after which SOG shifted to Taiwan manufacture.\nHattori also manufactured the three commemorative SOG bowies for Boker, for sale in the European market.\nReplicas of the SOG knife have also been made by Al Mar Knives, Ek Knives, Tak Fukuta for Parker, and Strider Knives. \nSOG also contracted with Kinryu Co. Ltd of Seki Japan to manufacture the Recon Bowie and the Scuba Demo\nuntil 2007. None of these knives, however, are currently used by any branch of the US Military in an official capacity. Original models are extremely valuable collector's items among both knife collectors and militaria collectors. The later replicas are also\nin high demand by collectors, especially the early ones made in Seki.\n\n"}
{"id": "47408166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47408166", "title": "Sakarya Sports Hall", "text": "Sakarya Sports Hall\n\nSakarya Sports Hall () is a multi-purpose indoor arena located at Yazlık neighborhood of Serdivan district in Adapazarı, Sakarya Province, Turkey.\n\nThe venue is used for competitions and trainings of a wide variety of sports branches including basketball, volleyball, handball, fencing, table tennis, wrestling, judo, karate, kick boxing and taekwondo. The sports hall was built in a land covering , which was granted to the Youth and Sports Directorate of Sakarya Province by the Serdivan municipality on September 1, 2010. The construction, which was projected to cost 30 million (approx. US$ 18.75 million in May 2011), began with a ground breaking ceremony held on May 25, 2011. Opened officially on June 24, 2013, the facility has a seating capacity of 5,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "18557739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18557739", "title": "Sierra Leone at the 2008 Summer Olympics", "text": "Sierra Leone at the 2008 Summer Olympics\n\nSierra Leone sent a delegation of three athletes to compete at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China.\n\nSaidu Kargbo, named as a late addition, fought in the light flyweight division. \n"}
{"id": "2853565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2853565", "title": "Snickometer", "text": "Snickometer\n\nA Snickometer, commonly known as Snicko, is used in televising cricket to graphically analyse sound and video, and show whether a fine noise, or snick, occurs as ball passes bat. It was invented by English computer scientist Allan Plaskett in the mid-1990s. The snickometer was introduced by Channel 4 in the UK, who also introduced the Hawk-Eye and the Red Zone, in 1999.\n\nThe Snickometer is often used in a slow motion television replay by the third umpire to determine if the cricket ball touched the cricket bat on the way through to the wicketkeeper. The commentators will listen and view the shape of the recorded soundwave. If there is a sound of leather on willow, which is usually a short sharp sound in synchrony with the ball passing the bat, then the ball has touched the bat. Other sounds such as the ball hitting the batsman's pads, or the bat hitting the pitch biscuit , and so on, tend to have a fatter shape on the sound waveform.\n\nIf, in the umpire's opinion, this is the case, and the ball was a legal delivery that was caught before touching the ground, then the batsman is given out by the umpire. The umpire does not have the benefit of the Snickometer, and must instead rely on his senses of sight and hearing, as well as his judgement. When the Umpire DRS (Decision Review System) was introduced to Test Cricket, Snicko was not considered accurate enough, and so another edge detecting tool Hot Spot was used.\n\nChannel 4 in the UK and Channel Nine of Australia, amongst others, have used it to help determine if the batsman was out or not. In 2013, Allan Plaskett was operating it for Sky TV.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3312978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3312978", "title": "Soft tennis", "text": "Soft tennis\n\nSoft tennis is a racket game played on a court of two halves, separated by a net. Like regular tennis, it is played by individuals (singles) or pairs (doubles), whose object is to hit the ball over the net, landing within the confines of the court, with the aim of preventing one's opponent from being able to hit it back. Soft tennis differs from regular tennis in that it uses soft rubber balls instead of hard yellow balls.\n\nIt is played primarily in Asia, especially in Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, Thailand, and the Philippines. In 2004 soft tennis was introduced into Europe. Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom all now have active soft tennis federations. All of them are also members of the European Soft Tennis Federation, and the International Federation JSTA.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, tennis was introduced to Japan by a Western missionary, and it was later modified to better suit Japanese tastes. A special racquet and ball were developed, and the game became known as .\n\nMost of the rules for soft tennis are the same as those for regular tennis. When the rules were revised in 1992, singles became a formal event. This revision also enabled a forward player in doubles to serve. The serve plays an important role in a team's chances of winning.\n\nThe world championship is held every four years. The recent world championship was played in New Delhi, India, from 17 to 21 November 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "6386600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6386600", "title": "Stroitel Stadium (Soligorsk)", "text": "Stroitel Stadium (Soligorsk)\n\nStroitel Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Soligorsk, Belarus. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home ground of Shakhtyor Soligorsk. The stadium was built in 1976 and is currently holds 4,200 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "14099226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14099226", "title": "Taipei International Marathon", "text": "Taipei International Marathon\n\nThe Fubon Taipei International Marathon is a series of road races sponsored by Fubon (formerly sponsored by ING from 2004-08 until Fubon acquired ING's Taiwan division) in Taipei, Taiwan. This marathon competition made great impacts on recruiting local volunteers from financial, academical, and governmental people, importing \"ChampionChip\" timer system for elite marathon runners, and setting up \"Kids Running Group\" and \"Police & Firefighters Group\" from 2005.\n\nDue to the bad traffic issues in Taiwan, many academic, foreigners, and media criticized this issue at 2004. ING Antai even attempted to quit the sponsoring, but finally canceled this idea with a coordination between Chinese Taipei Road Running Association and Taipei City Government, who promised for good traffic quality to participants on 15 December 2006, and the marathon has been sponsored by ING, and later Fubon, since then. After the success in 2006, this competition was finally nominated to \"Taiwan Sports Elite Awards\".\n\nKey:\n"}
{"id": "52040313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52040313", "title": "Taretiita Tabaroua", "text": "Taretiita Tabaroua\n\nTaretiita Baraniko Tabaroua (born ) is a I-Kiribati male weightlifter, competing in the 77 kg category and representing Kiribati at international competitions. He won the silver medal at the 2016 Oceania Weightlifting Championships, lifting a total of 290 kg. He participated at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in the 77 kg event.\n"}
{"id": "44574598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44574598", "title": "The Pit (arena)", "text": "The Pit (arena)\n\nThe Pit, formally named Dreamstyle Arena, is an indoor arena in Albuquerque, New Mexico, serving primarily as the home venue of the University of New Mexico Lobo basketball teams. The facility opened in 1966 as University Arena but gained the nickname \"The Pit\" due to its innovative subterranean design, with its playing floor below street level. The arena is located on the UNM South Campus and has a seating capacity of 15,411 for basketball and up to 13,480 for concerts, with 40 luxury suites and 365 club seats.\n\nThe Pit is widely recognized as one of the top college basketball venues in the U.S., and as one of the loudest. The New Mexico Lobos have enjoyed tremendous success at The Pit, winning over 80% of their games there, and attendance has consistently been among the best in college basketball. Renovations completed in 2010 added more space and state-of-the-art amenities for fans, coaches and players.\n\nThe Pit has frequently hosted NCAA basketball tournament games, including the memorable 1983 Final Four.\n\nBefore construction of The Pit, Lobo basketball teams played at Johnson Gymnasium, a 7,800-seat multi-purpose gym on the University of New Mexico main campus. Lobo basketball was unsuccessful at the time that Johnson Gym opened, and it was rarely more than half-full for games. In 1962, UNM hired Bob King as head basketball coach, and he immediately transformed the Lobos into a winning program, reaching the finals of the National Invitation Tournament in his second season. Attendance at Lobo home games doubled, tickets were soon selling out, and plans for a larger arena began to take shape.\n\nUniversity administrators wanted a much larger facility while providing fans an unobstructed view from any seat. A suitably large building would normally require support columns, however, leading chief architect Joe Boehning to incorporate a roof designed by the Behlen company, a \"stress skin system\" made of light gauge metal supported by a series of trusses. The roof was constructed first, just above street level, and the ground beneath was then excavated to form the bowl of the arena. The playing surface lies below grade, giving rise to the now-famous name. There are no supporting pillars in the seating area of the arena, so there are no obstructed views. Its compact area, steep grade, and the proximity of the seats to the floor contribute to its legendary noise level. The subterranean design won international recognition for Boehning. The arena originally had a seating capacity of 14,831 and cost a mere $1.4 million to build, about a fifth the cost of comparable facilities built at the time. The design allowed the foundation to rest directly on earth, eliminating the need for a steel structure to support the concrete, resulting in tremendous cost savings.\n\nThe Pit opened on December 1, 1966, with New Mexico defeating Abilene Christian College, 62–53. The building was officially named University Arena, but students were already calling it \"The Pit\" by the time it opened, and the nickname stuck. The Lobos have enjoyed extraordinary success playing at The Pit, winning over eighty percent of their games there and mounting home winning streaks of over twenty games four times, with the longest streak of 41 straight wins in 1996–98. The Lobos have made 14 NCAA tournament appearances and 17 NIT appearances since the opening of the arena. The Pit has hosted NCAA tournament regionals numerous times and hosted the 1983 Final Four championship. It also serves as the primary venue for New Mexico state high school basketball championship tournaments.\n\nIn 1992, the University of New Mexico recognized the coach who made construction of The Pit possible, naming the basketball court in his honor: Bob King Court was dedicated in a formal ceremony on December 1, 1992, the 26th anniversary of the opening of The Pit, a tribute to the contributions Coach King made to Lobo basketball.\n\nThe Lobos have been among college basketball attendance leaders since The Pit opened. They have averaged over 15,400 fans per game at The Pit since 1966. They finished in the top five nationally in attendance sixteen times in their first twenty years at The Pit, finishing second five times, and they were in the top ten all but one season through 2002. Attendance has averaged an astonishing 95 percent of seating capacity, partially due to standing room only tickets pushing attendance beyond stated capacity at times. The top average attendance for a season was 17,625 in 1997–98, and the largest crowd to attend a single game was 19,452 on January 17, 1976, against UNLV. Recent renovations have decreased the seating capacity of The Pit, but the Lobos have continued to rank in the top 25 every season.\n\nThe Pit is known as one of the loudest venues in college basketball. During the 1998–99 season, the \"St. Petersburg Times\" conducted a study of decibel levels at collegiate basketball arenas. The Lobo game in The Pit against Arizona registered the loudest at 118 decibels, comparable to a turbo-fan aircraft at takeoff power. Noise levels up to 125 decibels have been measured, close to the pain threshold for the human ear. Basketball writer John Feinstein once likened the experience of a visiting team in The Pit to \"watching Roman gladiators emerging into a wall of sound.\"\n\nFurther contributing to the intimidating environment for visitors is its near-mile-high elevation, where the court is around above sea level. This is impressed upon visiting teams with posters in the locker room providing information on the warning signs of altitude sickness and urging victims to seek immediate medical attention. In addition, the tunnel leading from the locker rooms down to the playing floor has a message painted on the wall stating, \"Welcome to the legendary Pit, a mile high and louder than...\"\n\nThe Pit has garnered high praise from sports publications, announcers, and opposing coaches. In 1999, Sports Illustrated listed The Pit as 13th in its feature on the Top Twenty Sporting Venues of the 20th Century, ahead of such locations as Daytona Speedway, Notre Dame Stadium, and the Rose Bowl. Sports writers from USA Today, Fox Sports, and Rivals.com have also recognized The Pit among top venues in college basketball. Jim Boeheim has stated that the game he coached in The Pit was one of the most exciting of his career, and Lute Olson has observed that The Pit crowd can dictate the tempo and momentum of a game. Rick Majerus, whose 5–11 record against the Lobos at The Pit ties him with Don Haskins for most wins by a visiting coach, praised the intensity and dedication of Lobo fans and their knowledge of the game, and Steve Fisher has echoed those sentiments.\n\nThe Pit has undergone two major renovations. In 1975 the arena was expanded at a cost of $2.2 million. A cantilevered deck was extended above the original seating for meeting space, offices, and a mezzanine level with 2,300 additional seats. The concourse was enlarged to allow concession space to be quadrupled, along with dedicated standing-room only space, increasing seating capacity to 18,018.\n\nThe second renovation, begun in 2009, was completed in time for the 2010–11 basketball season, costing $60 million and bringing the facilities up to state-of-the-art standards. The renovation added of new space, with new amenities such as forty luxury suites and 365 club seats, digital signage and video boards, expanded concourses, additional restrooms and concession stands, a new ticket office and Lobo store, interactive kiosks, and a UNM Lettermen's Lounge. New locker rooms for both men's and women's squads were added, as well as an upgraded strength and conditioning center and training facilities. Project architect John Pate of Molzen-Corbin in Albuquerque recognized the need to tread gently in designing changes to preserve the historic character of the building. \"Players like the noise,\" he noted. \"They want to keep it loud in there.\" The upgrade reduced seating capacity to 15,411, trading some seating for greater comfort and amenities.\n\nThe building facade was transformed from simple red brick to a high-rise look with a glass tower, lit from within and supported by a steel superstructure. The shape of the roof was curved into a half-figure-8 to be more visually interesting than its former box-like appearance. Extensive glasswork encases the street level, adding light and providing views of the Sandia Mountains to the east and picturesque Southwest sunsets to the west. \"We're building a little jewel box around the building,\" said Pate. \"We want the Pit to be seen as an urban destination ... an attractive, up-to-date building with better access for everyone.\" The building also achieves high environmental standards, with water efficiencies and heating and cooling processes designed to minimize energy loss, while 95 percent of all waste materials from the renovation were recycled.\n\nIn 2006, prior to the renovation, UNM dedicated the Rudy Davalos Basketball Center, named after the then-departing athletics director, located adjacent to the south end of The Pit. The facility includes practice courts, offices for coaches, a video control room and theater, and a multi-purpose room for press conferences and special events. The recent renovations integrated the Davalos Center with The Pit, allowing players to move seamlessly between the two facilities for practice, games, and training.\n\nOn December 1, 2014, the University of New Mexico announced that naming rights to the arena had been purchased by Albuquerque-based pizza chain WisePies for five million dollars over 10 years. The formal name of the building became \"WisePies Arena (aka The Pit).\" On April 27, 2017, UNM asked WisePies to relinquish the naming rights, per the terms of the agreement, and WisePies agreed to do so.\n\nOn May 3, 2017, UNM announced a $10 million naming rights agreement with Dreamstyle Remodeling, a local Albuquerque construction business, covering both The Pit and the UNM football stadium. The official name of the facilities became Dreamstyle Arena and Dreamstyle Stadium.\n\nThe New Mexico women's basketball team also enjoys the home court advantage of The Pit. The Lady Lobos reached national prominence under former head coach Don Flanagan (1995–2011), who compiled an overall record of 340–168 (.669), including 228–59 (.794) at The Pit, making him the winningest coach in New Mexico basketball history. Flanagan's teams won six Mountain West Conference titles and made eight appearances in the NCAA Women's basketball tournament, reaching the Sweet Sixteen in 2003. The Pit hosted Lobos games in the NCAA tournament in 2003, 2004, and 2008, with the team posting a 2–3 record. The Lobos under Flanagan also made five appearances in the post-season Women's National Invitation Tournament, including a 7–3 record in games at The Pit in 1999–2001 and 2010. In 2001 they reached the WNIT championship game, played at The Pit, losing to Ohio State.\n\nThe Lobos women have been in the top 10 nationally in average attendance since 1998–99. They have sold out The Pit nine times in that period, filling the arena five times to its former regular season capacity of 18,018. Four times they sold out NCAA tournament games with capacity over 16,000. In 2002–03, UNM ranked fourth nationally, averaging 11,896 per game, their best season total, and they averaged over 8,000 fans per game during Flanagan's tenure.\n\nThe Pit hosted the 1983 NCAA Final Four, the scene of a memorable NCAA Final upset by North Carolina State over heavily favored Houston. The image of incredulous NC State coach Jim Valvano running around the court after the last-second victory remains one of the most famous moments in NCAA basketball history. This was also the last men's Final Four event held on a college campus, and one of the last not held in an indoor stadium.\n\nThe Pit has frequently been a venue for NCAA men's basketball tournaments, hosting games in 1968, 1978, 1985, 1992, 1996, 2000, 2002, 2005, and 2012. It also hosted the Western Athletic Conference men's tournaments in 1987, 1995, and 1996. The Pit has hosted NCAA women's tournament games in 2003, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2009, and 2011.\n\nThe Lobos have compiled a 15–6 record in the NIT at The Pit, winning their last ten games since 1990.\n\nThe 2009 renovations increased the viability of the Pit as a multipurpose venue. In recent years it has been the Albuquerque home of WWE and is the site of the Professional Bull Riders Ty Murray Invitational, part of the Unleash the Beast Series. Both events previously were held at Tingley Coliseum.\n\nThe Pit has been New Mexico's largest arena since it opened, the largest indoor venue between Dallas and Phoenix, and also hosts major concert tours. Other entertainers who have appeared at the Pit include Led Zeppelin, Queen (with Paul Rodgers), Foreigner, Billy Graham, Taylor Swift, Bob Seger, Brad Paisley, George Strait, Billy Joel, and Elton John.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39324099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39324099", "title": "Tracy Ann Route", "text": "Tracy Ann Route\n\nTracy Ann Route (born February 23, 1985) is a Micronesian former swimmer, who specialized in sprint freestyle and butterfly events. She is a two-time Olympian (2000 and 2004), and holds numerous Pacific age group records in the freestyle and butterfly (both 50 and 100 m).\n\nWhen Micronesia marked its Olympic debut at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Route competed as a 15-year-old in the women's 100 m butterfly. Swimming in heat one, she rounded out a field to last place and forty-ninth overall against Swaziland's Lisa de la Motte and Malta's Angela Galea with a slowest time of 1:13.53.\n\nAt the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Route decided to swim only for the 50 m freestyle. She received a Universality place from FINA in an entry time of 32.44. She challenged six other swimmers in heat two, including 14-year-olds Sameera Al-Bitar of Bahrain and Christal Clashing of Antigua and Barbuda. She posted a lifetime best of 31.26 to earn a third spot by 0.26 of a second behind joint winners Al-Bitar and Ghazal El Jobeili of Lebanon. Route failed to advance into the semifinals, as she shared a sixty-fifth place tie with Maldives' Aminath Rouya Hussain on the last day of prelims.\n"}
{"id": "5407237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5407237", "title": "Veterans Field", "text": "Veterans Field\n\nVeterans Field is a baseball venue in Laredo, Texas. Built in 1950, the park was formerly known as West Martin Field, but the field's name was changed to honor the men and women who have served defending America in the armed forces. Home to many teams over the years, it was renovated in 2002, and now seats 5,000 with concessions and two picnic areas. Veterans Field was home to the Laredo Broncos of United League Baseball. Veterans Field was also the home to the five-time champion Mexican Baseball League team Tecolotes de los Dos Laredos from 1985 to 2003. Veterans Field is also home to the Texas A&M International University Dustdevils college baseball team of the NCAA's Division II Heartland Conference.\n"}
