{"id": "14498191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14498191", "title": "Bali Communiqué", "text": "Bali Communiqué\n\nOn 30 November 2007, the business leaders of 150 global companies published a communiqué to world leaders calling for a comprehensive, legally binding United Nations framework to tackle climate change.\n\nThe initiative represents an unprecedented coming together of the international business community and includes some of the biggest companies and brands from around the world, including the United States, Europe, Australia and China.\n\nIt has been led by The Prince of Wales’s UK and EU Corporate Leaders Groups on Climate Change , which are developed and run by the Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Leadership.\n\nIt was hoped that the Bali Communiqué will have a significant impact on the UN climate negotiations starting on December 3, 2007 in Bali, Indonesia (see 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference).\n\nThe Bali Communiqué calls for:\n\n\nThe Bali Communiqué reads as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54488775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54488775", "title": "Ballast Water Management Convention", "text": "Ballast Water Management Convention\n\nThe International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments (Ballast Water Management Convention or BWM Convention) is a 2004 international maritime treaty which requires signatory flag states to ensure that ships flagged by them comply with standards and procedures for the management and control of ships' ballast water and sediments. The Convention aims to prevent the spread of harmful aquatic organisms from one region to another and halt damage to the marine environment from ballast water discharge, by minimising the uptake and subsequent discharge of sediments and organisms. From 2024 all ships are required to have approved Ballast Water Management Treatment System, according to the D2 standard (see below). Existing ships are required to install an approved system, which may cost up to 5 million USD per ship to install. To assist with implementation the IMO has released 14 Guidance documents in regards to the Convention including the G2 Guidelines for Ballast Water Sampling, G4 Guidelines for Ballast Water management and G6 Guidelines for Ballast Water Exchange. \nThe first scientifically recognised occurrence of a non-indigenous marine species being transported in ships water occurred in the North Sea in 1903, with the Asian phytoplankton Odontella appearing. The issue became more prevalent with the increase in shipping in the late 20th century and the issue was raised for the first time at the IMO in 1988. Following several years of development, the Convention was adopted by the International Maritime Organization in 2004. To enter into force, the Convention required ratification by a minimum of 30 States, representing 35% of world merchant shipping tonnage, subject to which it would enter into force 12 months later. On 8 September 2016, Finland acceded to the Convention, bringing the contracting states to 52 and the combined tonnage of States to 35.14%. This triggered the applicability of the entry into force date of the Convention, which occurred on 8 September 2017. Since Finland, a number of States have continued to ratify the treaty, bringing the total as of November 2018 to 78 contracting States, representing 77.19 per cent of world merchant shipping tonnage.\n\nAll international sea going ships under the Convention must implement a ‘Ballast water management plan’ that enables the ship to manage their ballast water and sediment discharge to a certain standard. The plan is designed to meet the requirements for compliance with the Convention and the G4 Guidelines produced by the IMO. It includes standard operational guidance, planning and management, as well as additional details including sampling points and systems. Additionally all ships over 400GT must also carry a ballast water record book that details such requirements as the filling and discharge of each tank, according to time, date, location and the treatment applied to the water.\n\nShips that comply with the Convention will receive and are duly required to carry an international ballast water management certificate. To receive a certificate, a ship will have to supply the necessary documentation showing compliance with the Convention and a survey will be carried out on-board. A survey may be carried out by a flag State, or by a Classification Society who have been authorised by a flag State. The convention is monitored by Port State Control, who must assess the ballast water management plan and its operation on the ship. \nUnder the Convention, ships are required, according to a timetable of implementation, to comply with the D1 or D2 standards. \nThe D1 standard requires ships to carry out a ballast water exchange, and specifies the volume of water that must be replaced. This standard involves exchanging the uptaken discharge water from the last port, with new sea water; it must occur at a minimum of 200 nautical miles from shore. The D2 standard is more stringent and requires the use of an approved ballast water treatment system. The system must ensure that only small levels of viable organisms remain left in water after treatment so as to minimise the Environmental impact of shipping.\n\nNew ships will be required to install and comply with the D2 standard from the 8th September 2017, once the Convention has entered into force. Existing ships, who are subject to the phased implementation schedule, have potentially (depending on the renewal of their ship certificates) until the 8th September 2024, by which time all ships will comply with the D2 standard.\n\nIt is also possible for ships to discharge ballast at approved shore reception facilities in ports, as article 5 requires that when cleaning or repair of a ships ballast tanks occurs, ports should have adequate reception facilities for the sediments. Facilities must include safe disposal arrangements, storage and treatment equipment, safe and suitable mooring and emergency arrangements and the necessary reducers for connections to ships.\n\nSome ships may be exempted from complying with the Convention, according to certain conditions and the appropriate permission being given by a flag State. These include ships trading in a limited area, small vessels including sailboats and fishing vessels, vessels only operating on one coast and also FPSOs.\n"}
{"id": "1273079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1273079", "title": "Bermuda Agreement", "text": "Bermuda Agreement\n\nThe Bermuda Agreement (formally Agreement between the government of the United Kingdom and the government of the United States relating to Air Services between their respective Territories), reached in 1946 by American and British negotiators in Bermuda, was an early bilateral air transport agreement regulating civil air transport. It established a precedent for the signing of approximately 3,000 other such agreements between countries. The Agreement was replaced by the Bermuda II Agreement, which was signed in 1977 and effective in 1978.\n\nDuring World War II, transatlantic air service between Britain and America was limited to Boeing 314 flying boat service between Baltimore and Foynes, which Pan American World Airways had begun in July 1939. British Overseas Airways Corporation (BOAC) also flew the route using three Boeing 314s purchased from Pan Am.\n\nThe Bermuda Agreement arose in the wake of the Chicago Conference of 1944, where the United States and United Kingdom disagreed about economic control of international air transport. The US and UK had generally agreed on the first two freedoms of the air (overflight and landings for repair/refueling) but the UK and several other countries refused to accept the US position on the third, fourth and fifth freedoms regarding the handling of passenger and cargo traffic. Specifically, the US sought the freedom for its carriers to determine capacity and frequencies on international routes, while the UK sought predetermined routes and an equal division of capacity between the two nations' carriers on those routes. Britain had lost much of its air fleet in the course of World War II and was reluctant to place itself in full competition with the stronger American air fleet.\n\nPrior to the Bermuda Agreement, the United States signed bilateral aviation agreements with several other European countries (Ireland, Norway, Sweden and Denmark), and had signed a multilateral Transport Agreement with several European and Latin American countries, but service to and from the United Kingdom had to be negotiated with the British government on an ad hoc basis. As of late 1945, the UK had limited transatlantic traffic by the US to 14 services per week, 500 seats per week and a minimum fare of $375. \n\nIn July 1945, the US government granted Pan Am, Trans World Airlines (TWA) and American Export Airlines (shortly thereafter acquired by American Airlines and renamed American Overseas Airlines) the right to operate transatlantic service. American began its Douglas DC-4 service between New York and Bournemouth that October. Pan Am announced its own DC-4 service in October 1945 at prices less than 50% of the previous flying boat fares, which led the British government to pressure both Pan Am and the US government to back away from what Britain described as a \"wholly uneconomic proposition.\"\n\nThe US and UK governments agreed in late 1945 to meet and discuss the terms of a bilateral aviation agreement. Bermuda was chosen to host the meeting due to its location between the two countries and isolation from their respective governments. In a sign of the rapidly advancing technology of the time, the British delegation arrived in January by Boeing 314 flying boats, and departed in February by Lockheed 049 Constellation pressurized landplanes.\n\nUnlike the existing bilateral and multilateral aviation agreements, the Bermuda Agreement defined specific routes on which each countries' carriers could fly, with the right to pick up or discharge international traffic (but no cabotage rights) at any point along the routes:\n\n\nThe inclusion of many fifth freedom routes (beyond the United States and British Isles) reflected the fact that many territories such as Hong Kong, Singapore and India were still British colonies at the time the agreement was signed, and that many third countries were eager for air service and willing to provide rights to British and American carriers without restrictions.\n\nAs a compromise on the capacity issue, the Bermuda Agreement provided for equitable principles that \"there shall be a fair and equal opportunity for the carriers of the two nations to operate on any route between their respective territories (as defined in the Agreement) covered by the Agreement and its Annex\" and that \"in the operation by the air carriers of either Government of the trunk services described in the Annex to the Agreement, the interest of the air carriers of the other Government shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provides.\"\n\nFares were made subject to regulatory approval by authorities in each country or by the International Air Transport Association, effectively giving the IATA immunity from US antitrust law, which immunity remained in effect on North Atlantic routes until 1979.\n\nPan Am took delivery of the Lockheed 749 Constellation in June 1947 and began its \"round-the-world\" route with eastbound stops in New York, Gander, Shannon, London, Istanbul, Dhahran, Karachi, Calcutta, Bangkok, Manila, Shanghai, Tokyo, Guam, Wake, Midway, Honolulu and San Francisco, taking advantage of Bermuda Agreement fifth freedom rights.\n\nNewfoundland, an essential refueling stop on any transatlantic air route in the 1940s, was part of Britain at the time the Bermuda Agreement was signed. In 1949, following its accession as a Canadian province, the United States signed an agreement with Canada to provide for fifth freedom rights to and from Gander.\n\nPan Am acquired AOA from American Airlines in 1950, concentrating the US-UK air travel market to three carriers: Pan Am, TWA and BOAC.\n\nBOAC, still Britain's sole transatlantic carrier, sought to compete with Pan Am's \"round the world\" service by offering an \"all-red\" route from Britain to Australia via Canada, but bilateral agreements between the UK and these countries stalled in the early 1950s. BOAC proceeded to open a London-Chicago route in May 1954, with the intention to extend the service to San Francisco and Tokyo. The San Francisco extension was not realized until 1957, and US government approval for the Tokyo service did not come until 1959 due to objections by Northwest Airlines.\n\nBOAC introduced de Havilland Comet jet service on the London-New York route in 1958. TWA began jet service on the New York-London-Frankfurt route in 1959.\n\nThe United States began to exercise an even more dominant position in the transatlantic market during the 1960s. One key issue was that Pan Am and TWA began to use the hub and spoke system to feed passengers from many US destinations through a transatlantic \"gateway\" and on to Europe, giving the US carriers an advantage in serving secondary markets. Partly as a result of this competitive pressure, the market share of BOAC on transatlantic routes fell from 37.8% in 1961-62 to 30.9% by 1966-67.\n\nThe British government added a privately owned carrier, British Caledonian, to the transatlantic market in 1973, with flights from London's Gatwick Airport to New York and Los Angeles. BCal was forced to exit the market in 1976 after the British government determined that competition was not improving Britain's overall market share.\n\nIn 1976, the British government announced its intention to renounce the agreement, beginning the negotiation of the Bermuda II Agreement which became effective in 1978. Although the UK initially sought an equal division of capacity between UK and US carriers, the final Bermuda II agreement largely preserved the liberal capacity provisions of Bermuda I.\n\nThe Bermuda agreements were replaced in two stages on 30 March 2008, and 24 June 2010, by the EU–US Open Skies Agreement between the European Union (representing 25 European countries) and the United States, providing for an Open Skies regime even more liberal than Bermuda I.\n\nBoth the United States and the United Kingdom made the Bermuda Agreement their model for bilateral agreements with other countries until Bermuda II. The only major exception during this era was the 1966 agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union, which designated Pan Am and Aeroflot as the operating carriers from each country and left commercial details of service to the airlines' prior agreement. Although most other agreements during this era followed the Bermuda I model, they tended to include fewer and fewer fifth and sixth freedom rights (traffic rights to and from third countries) as time went on, as the increased range of aircraft made such rights less necessary. The general principles of the Bermuda Agreement were also followed by other countries, such as Canada in its various bilateral agreements.\n"}
{"id": "36526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36526", "title": "Cartel", "text": "Cartel\n\nA cartel is a group of apparently independent producers whose goal is to increase their collective profits by means of price fixing, limiting supply, or other restrictive practices. Cartels typically control selling prices, but some are organized to control the prices of purchased inputs. Antitrust laws attempt to deter or forbid cartels. A single entity that holds a monopoly by this definition cannot be a cartel, though it may be guilty of abusing said monopoly in other ways. Cartels usually occur in oligopolies, where there are a small number of sellers and usually involve homogeneous products. \n\nIn general, cartels can be divided into domestic and international agreements. Export cartels constitute a special case of international cartels. Unlike other cartels they are legal in virtually all jurisdictions, despite their harmful effects on affected markets.\n\nBid rigging is a special type of cartel.\n\nA survey of hundreds of published economic studies and legal decisions of antitrust authorities found that the median price increase achieved by cartels in the last 200 years is about 23 percent. Private international cartels (those with participants from two or more nations) had an average price increase of 28 percent, whereas domestic cartels averaged 18 percent. Less than 10 percent of all cartels in the sample failed to raise market prices.\n\nIn general, cartel agreements are economically unstable in that there is an incentive for members to cheat by selling at below the agreed price or selling more than the production quotas set by the cartel (see also game theory). This has caused many cartels that attempt to set product prices to be unsuccessful in the long term. Empirical studies of 20th century cartels have determined that the mean duration of discovered cartels is from 5 to 8 years. However, once a cartel is broken, the incentives to form the cartel return and the cartel may be re-formed. Publicly-known cartels that do not follow this cycle include, by some accounts, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).\n\nPrice fixing is often practiced internationally. When the agreement to control price is sanctioned by a multilateral treaty or protected by national sovereignty, no antitrust actions may be initiated. Examples of such price fixing include oil whose price is partly controlled by the supply by OPEC countries. Also international airline tickets have prices fixed by agreement with the IATA, a practice for which there is a specific exception in antitrust law. \n\nPrior to World War II (except in the United States), members of cartels could sign contracts that were enforceable in courts of law. There were even instances where cartels are encouraged by states. For example, during the period before 1945, cartels were tolerated in Europe and were promoted as a business practice in German-speaking countries. This was the norm due to the accepted benefits, which even the U.S. Supreme court has noted. In the case, \"the\" \"U.S. v. National Lead Co. et al.\", it cited the testimony of individuals, who cited that a cartel, in its protean form, is \"a combination of producers for the purpose of regulating production and, frequently, prices, and an association by agreement of companies or sections of companies having common interests so as to prevent extreme or unfair competition.\"\n\nToday, however, price fixing by private entities is illegal under the antitrust laws of more than 140 countries. Examples of prosecuted international cartels are lysine, citric acid, graphite electrodes and bulk vitamins. This is highlighted in countries with market economy wherein price-fixing and the concept of cartels are considered inimical to free and fair competition, which is considered the backbone of political democracy. The current condition makes it increasingly difficult for cartels to maintain sustainable operations. Even if international cartels might be out of reach for the regulatory authorities, they will still have to contend with the fact that their activities in domestic markets will be affected.\n\nOPEC: As its name suggests, OPEC is organized by sovereign states. The traditional view holds that it cannot be held to antitrust enforcement in other jurisdictions by virtue of the doctrine of state immunity under public international law. It serves as an example of state entanglement in anticompetitive conduct.\n\nMany trade associations, especially in industries dominated by only a few major companies, have been accused of being fronts for cartels or facilitating secret meetings among cartel members.\n\nAlthough cartels are usually thought of as a group of corporations, the free-market economist Charles W. Baird considers trade unions to be cartels, as they seek to raise the price of labor (wages) by preventing competition. For example, negotiated cartelism is a labor arrangement in which labor prices are held above the market clearing level through union leverage over employers.\n\nAn example of a new international cartel is the one created by the members of the Asian Racing Federation and documented in the Good Neighbor Policy signed on September 1, 2003.\n\n cartel\n\n"}
{"id": "39554836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39554836", "title": "Censorship of the iTunes Store", "text": "Censorship of the iTunes Store\n\nCensorship of the iTunes Store refers to external attempts at blocking access to digital content distributed through the iTunes Store.\n\nIn 2010, the Australian Labor Party announced its intent to subject the 220,000 mobile apps available on the Australia App Store to Australian Classification Board regulations, which require that developers pay evaluation fees ranging from $470 to $2040. A 2011 article in the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" clarified that \"Australians will soon be able to complain about mobile game apps they take offence to and get them removed from app stores such as Apple's iTunes if they're deemed 'refused classification'. And if mobile game apps are classified anything above MA15+ and the government doesn't introduce an R18+ games classification (which it plans to vote on in July), then any game app rated over MA15+ will also be refused classification.\" Sentiments were also expressed over other apps: \"What is unclear, however, is how the Classification Board will classify apps that aren't necessarily games like Grindr, an app for gay users which uses [GPS] to find nearby males\".\n\nThe China App Store was affected by connection-level censorship until an unknown point in time when Apple enabled a HTTPS-by-default configuration. Searches for 'VPN', for example, would cause the connection to be reset.\n\nAccording to the \"Global Times\", the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said on 13 December 2012 that it planned to \"strengthen regulation of China's mobile applications market\" in the near future. The Shanghai-based \"IT Times\" quoted Chen Jinqiao as saying that the plans included \"[bringing] app developers under supervision and [establishing] a real-name registration system for independent developers.\n\nIn 2013, Apple pulled several apps from the China App Store for containing books banned by the government. Several apps enabling users to bypass the Great Firewall and access restricted sites in China were also removed later. The Apple News application bundled with iOS 9 is disabled in China for all users as well, of which all contents, including the articles already downloaded to the device, are not available to read in China.\n\nApple's iBooks and iTunes Movies, available in China since September 2015, were both shut down in China in April 2016, less than seven months after the launch. The services were disabled by the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television of China after the authority introduced regulations imposing strict curbs on online publishing, particularly for foreign firms. Apple said in response that they hope to restore the services in China \"as soon as possible\".\n"}
{"id": "1967367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1967367", "title": "Consignee", "text": "Consignee\n\nIn a contract of carriage, the consignee is the entity who is financially responsible (the buyer) for the receipt of a shipment. Generally, but not always, the consignee is the same as the receiver.\n\nIf a sender dispatches an item to a receiver via a delivery service, the sender is the \"sender\", the recipient is the \"consignee\", and the deliverer is the \"carrier\".\n\nThis is a difficult area of law in that it regulates the mass transportation industry which cannot always guarantee arrival on time or that goods will not be damaged in the course of transit. Furthermore, two other problems are that unpaid consignors or freight carriers may wish to hold goods until payment is made, and fraudulent individuals may seek to take delivery in place of the legitimate consignees. The key to resolving such disputes lies in the documentation. The standard form of contract is a bill of lading which, in international shipping law, is simply a contract for the carriage of goods entered into between the shipper and the carrier that is not a charter party. It is always a term of that contract that the carrier must deliver the goods to a specific receiver. \n\nA straight bill of lading by land or sea, or air waybill are not documents of title to the goods they represent. They do no more than require delivery of the goods to the named consignee and (subject to the shipper's ability to redirect the goods) to no other. This differs from an \"order\" or \"bearer\" bill of lading which are possessory title documents and negotiable, i.e. they can be endorsed and so transfer the right to take delivery to the last endorsee. This aspect of shipping law is regulated by the Hague Rules, and the laws of individual countries, e.g. the UK Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992 and the U.S. Pomerene Act 1916. There is some international dispute as to whether the consignee on a straight bill must produce the bill in order to take delivery. The U.S. position is that the person taking delivery must prove his or her identity but, as in Hong Kong, there is no need to present the bill itself. In the UK there are conflicting \"obiter dicta\" in \"The Rafaela S\" [2003] 2 Lloyd's Rep. 113 and \"The Happy Ranger\" [2002] 2 AER (Comm) 23, so the matter must remain unclear even though there are serious problems, for example, arising from the everyday occurrence of cargo being discharged against letters of indemnity when original bills of lading are not yet available to be presented at the discharge port.\n\nThe rights of the consignee under an air waybill are regulated by the Warsaw Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules for International Carriage by Air, 1929 and the Montreal Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules for International Carriage by Air 1999 and the relevant state laws (which may be one law chosen as the proper law by the parties, or any combination of laws representing the seller, buyer, consignor, and carrier.)\nThis is very important as per export documents.\n\nThe receiver can be different than that of the consignee.\n\nIt is helpful to give and take the information about to be paid and received.\nIt helps to settle dispute as it includes the detail about the goods and terms of trade and payment.\nIt informs the selling price to the consignee. \nIt helps to know the quality , the quantity, the price and the discount to the importer."}
{"id": "4742408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4742408", "title": "Courtroom sketch", "text": "Courtroom sketch\n\nA courtroom sketch is an artistic depiction of the proceedings in a court of law. In many jurisdictions, cameras are not allowed in courtrooms in order to prevent distractions and preserve privacy. This requires news media to rely on sketch artists for illustrations of the proceedings.\n\nCourtroom sketch artists attend judicial proceedings as members of the public or as credentialed media depending on the venue and jurisdiction. Judges may require or allow artists to sit in a designated area or they may sit in general public seating. In some jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom and Hong Kong, courtroom artists are not permitted to sketch proceedings while in court and must create sketches from memory or notes after leaving the courtroom.\n\nCourtroom artists can quickly capture a moment on paper and then sell their work to media outlets who would otherwise be denied a visual record of the trial. They may be paid per sketch or on a per diem commission. Sketches are often sold to television stations, newswire services, newspapers, or the subjects of a sketch. Courtroom sketches may also be acquired by institutional archives. The entire set of courtroom sketches related to the Lindy Chamberlain trial were purchased by the National Museum of Australia from the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Selected works of American court artists Richard Tomlinson and Elizabeth Williams are held at the Lloyd Sealy Library at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Other collections of courtroom art include the works of Howard Brodie held in the Library of Congress and the Collection of the Supreme Court of the United States, which holds selected court artwork from artist Aggie Kenny.\n\nA courtroom artist must work quickly, particularly during arraignment hearings where a witness may appear in court for only a few minutes. A television-ready illustration can be produced in that time, and viewed on television after a court proceeding is finished. Courtroom artists can be barred from drawing alleged victims of sexual abuse, minors, and jurors or some witnesses in high-profile trials.\n\nCourtroom sketches in the United States date back as far as the 19th century. Courtroom sketch artists were present for the trial of abolitionist John Brown and the impeachment of Andrew Johnson. By the mid-19th century, there were well-known court artists and printmakers such as George Caleb Bingham and David G. Blyth. Sketches during this era were reproduced as engravings in print publications, because photography was not a practical option for courtroom news coverage.\n\nAs mass media technology advanced in the early twentieth century, courts began experimenting with allowing photography and radio broadcasts of court proceedings. Following the media \"circus\" surrounding the trial of Richard Bruno Hauptmann for the Lindbergh kidnapping, broadcasts from federal courtrooms were banned by Rule 53 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. Additionally, the American Bar Association adopted Judicial Canon 35, which prohibited the use of motion or still cameras in the courtroom and was codified into law by the majority of states. On the other hand, no state or federal court prohibited the publication of courtroom sketches and courtroom sketch artistry continued.\n\nIn 1973, courtroom artist Aggie Whelan (Kenny) was hired by CBS to illustrate the Gainesville Eight trial. The judge presiding over the trial, Winston E. Arnow, ordered that no sketches were to be made in the courtroom and that no sketches of the trial be published, even if those sketches were made outside of the court from memory. In the United States v. Columbia Broadcasting System (1974), the Fifth Circuit of Appeals overruled the trial judge's order and protected Aggie Whelan's right to create sketches and CBS's right to broadcast courtroom sketches. The restrictions were too broad and violated both CBS and Whelan's First Amendment rights.\n\nTelevision networks began using sketches to illustrate courtroom events during news broadcasts in the 1960s. As long as the artist arrived on time, and did not disturb the proceedings by making unnecessary noise, their presence was rarely challenged in most jurisdictions. In jurisdictions where artists were restricted from sketching inside the courtroom, they created sketches from memory. Courtroom artists including Ida Libby Dengrove protested these restrictions, and gradually courtrooms began allowing sketch artists to work during trials whilst seated in the public gallery.\n\nThe reintroduction of camera into courtrooms has been credited with a decline in courtroom sketch artists. By 1987, courtroom photography was allowed in 44 states. While the creation of Court TV and the O. J. Simpson murder case did cause renewed debate on whether or not courtroom photography should be allowed, all 50 states allowed the use of courtroom photography by 2014.\n\nNotable American courtroom artists include Howard Brodie, Ruben O. Lopez, Marguerite Martyn, Bill Robles, Aggie Whelan Kenny, Elizabeth Williams, Christine Cornell (WNBC and CNN), Art Lien (NBC, SCOTUSblog), Marilyn Church (\"The New York Times\"), Richard Tomlinson (WNEW-TV), and Joseph W. Papin (\"The New York Daily News\").\nJoseph W. Papin worked for \"The New York Daily News\" from 1969 to 1992 and covered most of the major U.S. trials during that period of time. Among them, the Watergate hearings, the Patty Hearst, Son of Sam (David Berkowitz), The Pizza Connection, and the Jean Harris trial.\n\nHoward Brodie was a courtroom artist whose work included covering the trials of Jack Ruby, Sirhan Sirhan, William Calley, Charles Manson, Patty Hearst, and the Chicago Seven. He primarily worked for the \"CBS Evening News\" and anchor Walter Cronkite coined the term \"artist-correspondent\" to describe his work. Prior to becoming a courtroom artist, Brodie was a combat artist during World War II and a staff artist for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". Brodie's work is held in the Library of Congress and he was inducted into the Society of Illustrators Hall of Fame in 2001.\n\nBill Robles is an Emmy Award-nominated courtroom artist whose work includes covering the trials of Charles Manson, O.J. Simpson, Ted Kaczynski, Timothy McVeigh, Terry Nichols, Richard Ramirez, Rodney King, and Michael Jackson. The first trial Robles covered as a television news courtroom artist was the trial of Manson.\n\nAggie Whelan Kenny is a courtroom artist known for her work on covering the Supreme Court of the United States and trials including James Earl Ray, David Berkowitz, and Jerry Sandusky. Kenny received an Emmy for her work for the \"CBS Evening News\" on the trials of John N. Mitchell and Maurice Stans. Her work is included in the Collection of the Supreme Court of the United States. Kenny's sketches of Gainesville Eight trial led to the court case United States v. Columbia Broadcasting System (1974), which established the right of courtroom artists to create sketches and for those sketches to be broadcast on television.\n\nElizabeth Williams has covered the trials John DeLorean, Martha Stewart, John Gotti, Michael Milken, Bernard Madoff, Dominique Strauss-Khan, and the Times Square Bomber. She is best known for her coverage of white-collar criminals tried in New York City. Her sketches depicting the Sean Bell trial are held by the Lloyd Sealy Library at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice.\n\nActor Terry Crews stated in an appearance on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live\" that his first job in the entertainment industry was as the courtroom sketch artist for WJRT in Flint, Michigan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20284023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20284023", "title": "Department of Justice (Northern Ireland)", "text": "Department of Justice (Northern Ireland)\n\nThe Department of Justice is a government department in the Northern Ireland Executive, which was established on 12 April 2010 as part of the devolution of justice matters to the Northern Ireland Assembly. The position of Minister of Justice is currently vacant. The department's Permanent Secretary is Nick Perry. It combines the previous work of the Northern Ireland Office and the Ministry of Justice, within the United Kingdom Government, which were respectively responsible for justice policy and the administration of courts in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe partition of Ireland created a separate jurisdiction of Northern Ireland in June 1921. A local \"Ministry of Home Affairs\", initially led by Dawson Bates, was established at that time and oversaw most aspects of justice policy until the introduction of direct rule in March 1972. The \"Northern Ireland Office\", led by the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, was subsequently responsible for security and political affairs during the remainder of the Troubles.\n\nThe post of \"Lord Chancellor of Ireland\" was abolished in 1922 and subsequently replaced in Northern Ireland by the Lord High Chancellor of Great Britain. His supporting department and the subsequent \"Department for Constitutional Affairs\" (2003–2007) oversaw the courts until the formation of the \"Ministry of Justice\" in May 2007.\n\nMost aspects of social and economic policy were devolved to the Northern Ireland Executive in December 1999. The devolution of policing and justice was pledged in the St Andrews Agreement (of October 2006) and the Hillsborough Castle Agreement (of February 2010) and occurred in April 2010.\n\nThe Minister of Justice is elected by a cross-community vote in the Northern Ireland Assembly, unlike all other Northern Ireland Executive posts, which are either allocated by the d'Hondt method or appointed directly by the largest parties (i.e. the First Minister and the deputy First Minister).\n\nThe exception was made to resolve a dispute between the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and Sinn Féin. The Alliance Party of Northern Ireland successfully nominated its party leader, David Ford, on 12 April 2010. Ford was re-elected to the position on 16 May 2011 and was Minister until 2016. On 25 May 2016, independent unionist Claire Sugden was elected the new Minister of Justice, following the Alliance Party's refusal of the justice ministry. Sugden's tenure as minister ended on 26 January 2017, when the Northern Ireland Executive was dissolved following further disputes between the DUP and Sinn Féin.\n\nUnder the Programme for Government for 2016-2020, the department has been tasked with the outcome of \"a safe community where we respect the law, and each other”. Its objectives are based on the concept of 'problem-solving justice' which seeks to drive forward \"new and more imaginative\" strategies, which will seek to address the underlying causes of offending behaviour.\n\nThe Department of Justice's headquarters is located in Castle Buildings in Belfast. Its remit includes the following executive agencies:\n\n\nThe department also oversees the following non-departmental public bodies:\n\n\nThe Police Service of Northern Ireland is operationally independent and accountable to the Northern Ireland Policing Board; the Minister of Justice has overall responsibility for legislation on policing.\n\nThe Department of Justice is responsible for most everyday policing and justice powers in Northern Ireland. The Northern Ireland Act 1998 (Devolution of Policing and Justice Functions) Order 2010 outlines the policy areas transferred to the Northern Ireland Assembly. These include:\n\n\nSome justice matters remain reserved to Westminster, with the Assembly's agreement e.g. the prerogative of mercy in terrorism cases, illicit drug classification, the National Crime Agency, the accommodation of prisoners in separated conditions within the Northern Ireland Prison Service, parades and the security of explosives.\n\nIn addition, some justice matters remain excepted and devolution was either not discussed or not considered feasible: extradition (as an international relations matter), military justice (as a defence matter), the enforcement of immigration law, and national security (including intelligence services).\n\nThe Department of Justice's main counterparts in the United Kingdom Government are:\n\nIn the Irish Government, its main counterpart is the Department of Justice and Equality. A considerable proportion of law enforcement in Northern Ireland (and media coverage of policing and justice stories) is taken up with unresolved cases arising from the Troubles, continuing paramilitary activity and tensions caused by sectarian division. The border results in differences in law between Northern Ireland (the only UK jurisdiction with an international land border) and the Republic of Ireland, which are exploited through smuggling and other forms of crime. The border is expected to become an external border of the European Union, following Brexit.\n\nThe 2016-2017 Northern Ireland Executive budget allocated a £1,050.5 million resource budget to the Department of Justice:\n\n\nThis represented an increase from the previous resource budget of £1,023.9 million.\n\nThe department's capital budget was £58 million, allocated as follows:\n\n\nThe Northern Ireland Executive was also provided with £32 million for national security in relation to Northern Ireland, £30 million for legacy bodies to deal with the Troubles (not yet established), £5 million to tackle paramilitary activity, and £800,000 to assist with the monitoring of paramilitary activity. \n\nSince the devolution of policing and justice, the Northern Ireland Assembly has enacted seven Acts mainly relating to justice policy:\n\n\nIn addition, the Department of Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 2010 formally established the department.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50578028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50578028", "title": "Duty to settle", "text": "Duty to settle\n\nA liability insurance company's duty to settle is defined as an implied obligation to by the insurer to a policyholder and to a claimant to attempt \"in good faith to effectuate prompt, fair, and equitable settlements of claims in which liability has become reasonably clear.\" To the surprise of many, a typical liability insurance policy makes no express contractual promise to settle. In California, \"an insurer, who wrongfully refuses to accept a reasonable settlement within the policy limits is liable for the entire judgment against the insured even if it exceeds the policy limits.\" A rationale for this duty is that \"[w]hen an offer is made to settle a claim in excess of policy limits for an amount within policy limits, a genuine and immediate conflict of interest arises between carrier and assured.\" \"An insurer who denies coverage does so at its own risk. Such factors as a belief that the policy does not provide coverage, should not affect a decision as to whether the settlement offer in question is a reasonable one.\" \"It is the duty of the insurer to keep the insured informed of settlement offers.\" \"[A]n insurer potentially can be liable for unreasonably coercing an insured to contribute to a settlement fund.\"\n\nAn insurer may not \"discriminate in its claims settlement practices based upon\" certain protected classes.\n"}
{"id": "36956192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36956192", "title": "Electronic Communications Convention", "text": "Electronic Communications Convention\n\nThe United Nations Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications in International Contracts (the \"Electronic Communications Convention\", or ECC) is a treaty that aims at facilitating the use of electronic communications in international trade. It was prepared by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) and adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 23 November 2005. Pursuant to Article 23, it entered into force on 1 March 2013, the first day of the month after six months passed following adoption by three States parties, namely the Dominican Republic, Honduras, and Singapore.\n\nThe following states have ratified, accepted, approved, acceded to, or succeeded to the Electronic Communications Convention: \nThe Electronic Communications Convention has been signed, but not yet ratified, by the Central African Republic, China, Colombia, Iran, Lebanon, Madagascar, Panama, the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, and Sierra Leone.</ref>\n\nOther states that have publicly declared their intention of adopting the Electronic Communications Convention include Australia, Mauritius, and Thailand. Canada has prepared uniform legislation to facilitate the adoption of the ECC at the State level, which has been enacted by Ontario and Saskatchewan. Similar legislation has been prepared in the United States and on 10 February 2016 President Obama sent a message to the Senate asking for accession of the Convention. In Australia all states and territories and the Federal parliament have passed amending legislation to conform to the Convention.\n\nUNCITRAL has been active in formulating uniform legislative standards for the use of electronic communications in trade since the 1980s. A first result of such work was the adoption of the UNCITRAL Model Law on Electronic Commerce, 1996 (MLEC), followed by the UNCITRAL Model Law on Electronic Signatures (MLES), 2001. However, a number of issues remained unsolved, namely, the possibility to enable to use of electronic communications in cases where a formal written requirement is mandated by another treaty, usually drafted before the widespread use of electronic means. Moreover, as model laws may be enacted with variations in the various jurisdictions, it was felt that establishing a core of common provisions would increase uniformity and therefore predictability in international trade law. Finally, it was felt that some of the provisions of the MLEC and of the MLES could be outdated and complemented.\n\nAs a result, the Electronic Communications Convention addresses different policy goals:\n1) it removes obstacles arising from formal requirements contained in other international trade law treaties;\n2) it provides a common substantive core to the law of electronic communications, thus ensuring a higher level of uniformity both in the legislative text and in its interpretation;\n3) it updates and complements the provisions of the MLEC and of the MLES;\n4) it provides core legislation on electronic communications to those States not having yet any, or having partial and insufficient provisions.\n\nArticle 14.5.1 of the Trans-Pacific Partnership sets forth that: \"Each Party shall maintain a legal framework governing electronic transactions consistent with the principles of the UNCITRAL Model Law on Electronic Commerce 1996 or the United Nations Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications in International Contracts, done at New York November 23, 2005\".\n\nWith respect to substantive provisions, the Electronic Communications Convention builds extensively, on the fundamental principles of the uniform law of electronic commerce developed by UNCITRAL (non-discrimination, technological neutrality, functional equivalence, and irrelevance of place of origin) as well as on several specific articles of the MLEC and of the MLES.\nThe Electronic Communications Convention is also inspired by a number of provisions of the CISG, especially in the parts relating to scope of application, to general principles and to final clauses. Thus, article 3 ECC corresponds to article 6 CISG, giving effect to the principle of party autonomy. Article 5 ECC is the equivalent of article 7 CISG, introducing a duty of uniform interpretation of the treaty, and defining the ancillary criteria for interpretation.\n\nArticle 6 builds on the notion of \"place of business\" introduced by the CISG and adapts it to the electronic environment. In particular, it is specified that the location of equipment and technology supporting an information system, or the location where the information system may be accessed by other parties, are not, as such, decisive to determine the place of business. Those elements may, however, concur to determine the place of business. Similar considerations apply to the use of a domain name or electronic mail address connected to a specific country. The sources of paras. 2 and 3 of article 6 ECC are found in article 15(4)(a) and (b) MLEC.\n\nArticle 1 ECC defines the scope of application of the Convention. The source of inspiration of that article is clearly article 1 of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG). However, a major difference lies in the fact that the ECC, unlike the CISG, does not require that the concerned parties have their places of business in States parties to the ECC. Therefore, the ECC applies if the law applicable to the communications is the law of a State party to the ECC, or if the parties have validly chosen as the law applicable to their communications the law of a State party to the ECC. A third option is the application of the substantive provisions of the ECC if chosen by virtue of agreement of the parties.\n\nAccording to art. 4(a) ECC “Communication” means any statement, declaration, demand, notice or request, including an offer and the acceptance of an offer, that the parties are required to make or choose to make in connection with the formation or performance of a contract; it is therefore not necessary that the contract is concluded. Moreover, it is possible that only some or one clause of the contract are in electronic form, including, for instance, the arbitration clause. Moreover, according to art. 4(b) ECC “Electronic communication” means any communication that the parties make by means of data messages; the notion of data message is defined in art. 4 (c) ECC along the lines of the same definition contained in the MLEC and MLES. The outcome of such broad approach is that the notion of electronic communication encompasses the use of different technologies, including, e.g., SMS, but also digital audio and video recording.\n\nArt. 2(1)(a) ECC is inspired by article 2(a) CISG. Both provisions aim at excluding consumers' transactions from the scope of application of the respective conventions. \nArt. 2(1)(b) ECC excludes from the scope of application of the convention certain fields that already enjoy uniform legal provisions, contractually (e.g., international payments systems) or otherwise (e.g., treaties relating to securities held with an intermediary). \nArt. 2(2) ECC excludes from the scope of application of the convention electronic transferable records. These are electronic records that entitle the entity controlling them to the delivery of goods or the payment of a sum, as evidenced in the record. This exclusion is due to the fact that uniform legal standards for the functional equivalence of notions such as “possession” in the electronic world have yet to be developed. Since 2011, UNCITRAL Working Group IV (Electronic Commerce) is tasked with defining those standards.\n\nStates may vary the scope of application of the Convention by lodging declarations. Thus, the declaration foreseen in article 19(1)(a) limits the application of the Convention to cases when all the States where the parties involved in the transaction have their place of business are contracting States. This is the same mechanism envisaged in article 1(1)(a) CISG. Article 19(1)(b) limits the application of the Convention to cases when the parties so choose.\n\nArticle 19(2) ECC gives States the possibility to exclude certain matters from the scope of application of the ECC. These exceptions could be similar to those made in corresponding national legislation: Singapore has lodged this type of declaration upon ratification of the Electronic Communications Convention.\n\nLast, but not least, parties may vary or derogate from any provision of the Convention under its article 3. This is a provision common in international trade law treaties, where freedom of contract is considered an overarching principle. However, in practice there might be limits of public order, or other mandatory provisions, that might limit the freedom of the parties.\n\nArticle 8 ECC sets forth at the international level the principle of non-discrimination of electronic communications already established, for national legislation, in article 5 MLEC.\n\nArticle 9 ECC is the core provision establishing the parameters for functional equivalence between electronic and paper-based communications.\n\nIn particular, article 9(2) ECC deals with functional equivalence of the notion of \"written form\". The provision follows that of article 6(1) MLEC.\n\nArticle 9(3) ECC deals with functional equivalence for \"signature\". In practice, this provision enables cross-border recognition of all types of electronic signatures. To do so, art. 9(3) ECC departs from both UNCITRAL relevant precedents, i.e. article 7(1) MLEC and article 12 MLES. Two major innovations were introduced with respect to article 7(1) MLEC: a) the notion of \"person's approval\" was substituted with that of \"party's intention\" in order to better capture the various functions associated with signatures, which go well beyond mere approval; and b) a safety clause was introduced in article 9(3)(b)(ii) ECC to ensure that electronic signatures that provide for a method to identify the party and to indicate the party's intention, and that have indeed fulfilled that function by themselves or together with other evidence, may not be repudiated. In other words, if it is possible to identify the signatory of an electronic communication, that signatory may not challenge the signature on the basis of the signature's method or nature.\n\nArticle 9(4) and (5) ECC provides for the functional equivalent of original, along the lines of article 8(1) and (3) MLEC.\n\nArticle 10 ECC deals with time and place of dispatch and receipt of electronic communications. Its predecessor is article 15 MLEC.\n\nArticle 10(1) ECC innovates on article 15(1) MLEC: in the ECC, the electronic communication is dispatched when it leaves the system under the control of the originator, while in the MLEC it (or, better, the data message in the terminology of that Model Law) has to enter a system outside the control of the originator: the rule has been changed in order to avoid consequences for the originator when the message may not enter the information system for reasons not under control of the originator (e.g., firewall; filter; system down...).\n\nArticle 10(2) ECC follows article 15(2) MLEC in introducing the difference between designated and non-designated electronic address for determining the time of receipt of an electronic communication. Article 10(2) ECC contains a novel element by requiring that the recipient should be aware that the communication was sent (and the communication is capable of being retrieved), while the provision of the MLEC requires actual retrieval by the addressee, which might again expose the originator to liability for circumstances under the addressee's control.\n\nArticle 10(3) ECC corresponds to article 15(4) MLEC. This provision must be read in conjunction with article 6 ECC, as must be article 10(4) ECC.\n\nThe Electronic Communications Convention contains, in its Chapter IV, rather elaborate final clauses. Final clauses aimed at modifying the scope of application of the Convention are discussed above.\n\nArticle 17 ECC sets forth the applicable rules for those cases where electronic communications fall under the legislative authority of a regional economic integration organisation (REIO). The rationale of article 17 is, on the one hand, to ensure that the Convention will not be applied to commercial relations falling under the scope of application of the legislation of the REIO and, on the other hand, to clarify the distribution of legislative power between REIOs (and therefore unaffected by the Convention) and national States (and therefore under the scope of the Convention in case of cross-border exchanges). In other words, the Convention does not intend to interphere with regional regimes.\n\nIn particular, article 17(2) ECC requires the REIO that intends to become a party to the ECC to deposit a declaration on the distribution of competences between the REIO and its member States. The REIO member States are supposed to do the same. Article 17(4) contains the \"disconnection clause\" that should ensure that REIOs' legal regimes are unaffected by the operation of the Electronic Communications Convention.\n\nThe matter has important practical consequences. In fact, the absence of an agreed declaration on the distribution of competences between the European Union and its member States has prevented those States from signing or becoming a party to the Electronic Communications Convention: among the 20 States that are signatory or party to the Convention, none is an EU member State.\n\nOne major goal of the Electronic Communications Convention is the removal of obstacles to international trade arising from the insertion of formal requirements in treaties concluded before the broad adoption of electronic means. Article 20 ECC lists several treaties prepared by UNCITRAL as treaties that will be \"electrified\" by the adoption of the ECC. In other words, by virtue of adoption of the ECC formal requirements contained in those treaties, especially written form requirements, will be satisfied with the use of electronic communications under the conditions set forth in the ECC.\n\nSome UNCITRAL treaties are excluded from the list in article 20, in particular, the United Nations Convention on the Carriage of Goods by Sea, 1978 (the \"Hamburg Rules\") and the United Nations Convention on International Bills of Exchange and International Promissory Notes, 1988. The reason for the exclusion is that those two treaties contain provisions on negotiable documents, which are excluded from the scope of the ECC (art. 2(2)). The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Carriage of Goods Wholly or Partly by Sea, 2008 (the \"Rotterdam Rules\"), which was also prepared by UNCITRAL and contains provisions on electronic transferable records, was concluded after the ECC.\n\nArticle 20(2) ECC indicates that the Convention will apply also to all other treaties where the exchange of electronic communications is relevant, unless a State declares not to be bound by this provision. Even if this \"opt out\" declaration is made, the declaring State may still choose, under article 20(3) ECC, certain treaties to which the ECC will apply.\n\nArticle 20(4) ECC gives the possibility of a State to prevent the interaction of the ECC with a given treaty even if the State has not lodged any other declaration regarding the Convention's scope of application. In other words, under article 20(3) ECC the State makes a general opt out and a selective opt in, while under article 20(4) the State makes a general opt in, and a selective opt out.\n\nThe UNCITRAL law library bibliography\n\nUnited Nations Conference on Trade and Development Report, \"Information Economy Report 2006: The development perspective.\" (2006), Chapter 8.\n\nAmelia H. Boss and Wolfgang Kilian (eds), \"The United Nations Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications in International Contracts: An In-Depth Guide and Sourcebook.\" (2008) provides a detailed commentary of the provisions of the Convention and other related aspects.\n\n"}
{"id": "52846768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52846768", "title": "Electronic persons", "text": "Electronic persons\n\nElectronic persons is a term first proposed by the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs in a draft report on civil law rules on robotics dated May 31, 2016. The term is used to describe the potential legal status of the most sophisticated autonomous robots so that they may have \"specific rights and obligations, including that of making good any damage they may cause, and applying electronic personality to cases where robots make smart autonomous decisions or otherwise interact with third parties independently\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11469124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11469124", "title": "Fat'h Ul Mueen", "text": "Fat'h Ul Mueen\n\nFat'h Ul Mueen is a textbook on Fiqh dealing with the Shafi'i school of Islamic jurisprudence authored by a Malayali Alim, Zainuddin Makhdoom II.\n"}
{"id": "8062188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8062188", "title": "Gerichtsassessor", "text": "Gerichtsassessor\n\nIn the German legal system, the obsolete designation Gerichtsassessor was held by judges or federal prosecutors, whose employment status today would be \"on probation\". Attainment of the second state legal qualification (the so-called \"Competence to the Justiceship\") was always a pre-requisite. The appointment took place with the intention that the Gerichtsassessor would be employed later in his lifetime as a judge.\n\nThe Gerichtsassessor usually held this designation for one year after receiving his Certificate of Appointment, before being appointed as a judge. \n\n"}
{"id": "55762700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55762700", "title": "Global policeman", "text": "Global policeman\n\nGlobal policeman is an informal term for a state which seeks or claims global hegemony. It has been used, firstly, of the British Empire and, since 1945, of the United States, the most influential of the Four Policemen victorious in World War II.\n\nIn recent years there has been speculation that China may take over the role as it reaches out to protect shipping lanes, protect its overseas workers, and 'creeps into the superpower league'. The West, according to two columnists of the \"Financial Times\", 'should view this as an opportunity, not a threat.'\n\nNo formal recognition of this position exists. Theoretically, in international law, all nations are equal; 'par in parem non habet imperium', no authority between equals, is the principle applied. In reality, international law is decentralised, unpoliced, unenforceable, unclear and frequently broken. States are 'immortal' and cannot be indicted.\n\nWithin states, law restrains and limits power; between states, the opposite is true.\n\nThe Peelian principles of policing include: the duty to prevent crime, keep the peace and uphold the law, with the consent of the public, and with minimal use of force and restraint; to act impartially; and not to usurp the powers of the judiciary. The latter standard requires a presumption of innocence. Candidates for police recruitment and promotion are appointed on merit, whereas a 'global policeman' is self-appointed faute de mieux.\n\nWithin states, a monopoly on violence is the norm; the police may carry weapons, but few others do so (the US is an exception, prompting Charles Lane to ask if it is 'really a state') Internationally, a 'global policeman' is but one heavily armed state among two hundred others.\n\nTo confer the role of 'global policeman' on any self-interested, expansionary state implies a conflict of interest. States wage war with maximum force; engage in arms sales; form alliances and thus lack impartiality.\n\nThe comparatively peaceful years 1815–1914 came to be known as Pax Britannica. The UK made efforts to control the Slave trade through the West Africa Squadron In 1827, Britain, jointly with France and Russia, intervened on the side of Greek independence, destroying the Turkish fleet at the Battle of Navarino. In 1854, Britain, jointly with France, prevented Russia from destroying the Ottoman empire. Russia had to withdraw from Moldavia and Wallachia, and Sebastopol was besieged in the Crimean war.\n\nFrom 1914–1945 no one state was hegemonic. In an era of multipolarity and diffused responsibility, fascist dictators arose and Europe sank into two world wars. The authoritarian German challenge to democratic Britain then, is comparable to the authoritarian Chinese challenge to democratic America now, according to Richard J Evans.\n\nThe Truman Doctrine of 1947 promised assistance to anticommunist allies. 'The right of neutrality was abolished...it was an era of aggressive peacetime policy which marked the beginning of America's role as global policeman.' Since the end of the Cold War 'The enemy is terrorism not communism'. But after a disastrous intervention in Somalia in 1993, the US was reluctant to engage in humanitarian intervention in Bosnia and Rwanda.\n\nThe US-led Invasion of Iraq, officially a policing mission to find Weapons of Mass Destruction, has been accused of being an illegal cover for ulterior, unethical motives: the need to secure US regional bases, oil supplies, and the loyalty of key allies.\n\nSince then, serious doubts have been raised about the validity of US overseas intervention and destabilization in Iraq, Libya and Syria. Americans accept no law other than their own on US soil, yet expect other nations to submit to the rule of US troops; a double standard.\n\nThe use of drone strikes on terrorists in Pakistan and Afghanistan goes against the presumption of innocence. The CIA, exempt from the Geneva Convention, is 'secretly sentencing people to death for an unproven crime, without trial or inquest.' Al Qaeda is not a state, so 'war law' which permits killing of combatants, does not apply.\n\n"}
{"id": "54634949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54634949", "title": "Gravi de pugna", "text": "Gravi de pugna\n\nGravi de pugna is a forged letter written in the name of Augustine of Hippo which asserts that the morally superior side is always superior in battle and therefore that wars are proven to be just wars by their military success. The letter was widely accepted as authentic, and reassured soldiers that God was on their side.\n\n\"Gravi de pugna\" is best known for its simple assertion that God will assure that the morally superior side will win military battles, and conversely, that victory itself validates that the use of force was appropriate. Udo Heyn claims this was a Germanic notion, and Phillip Wynn reports that it had long been believed in pagan antiquity by the time of this letter. This understanding was, in fact, utterly rejected by Augustine. Kelly DeVries regards the theology of \"Gravi de pugna\" as shallow and considers it to raise problems of theodicy and legitimacy as soon as the first Christian army loses.\n\nGravi also urges prayer for victory before battle, which was also rejected by Augustine, who found such prayers inappropriate.\n\n\"Gravi de pugna\" was written in the fifth century.\nThe letter was widely accepted as authentic from its introduction through the medieval era, and was the most frequently cited text in this period on holy war. It was invoked to justify numerous wars, including by Hincmar of Reims, Rabanus Maurus, Sedulius Scottus, Ivo of Chartres, and Bernard of Clairvaux It was also recited at the Siege of Lisbon in .\n\"Gravi\" imbued the Crusaders with confidence that God was on their side, squelching all moral concerns and leading to behavior that did not comply with then-accepted rules of war.\n\nThe work lost influence with the renaissance of the 12th century, which developed more sophisticated jurisprudence and moral reasoning, At the same time, Augustine's own opinions, which had been largely unknown, were studied by the decretists and through them, Aquinas as well. The authenticity of \"Gravi de Pugna\" was not conclusively rejected until Erasmus.\nAlthough it is regarded by contemporary scholars as \"obviously un-Augustinian\",\nit is now widely recognized that \"Gravi de pugna\" has inaccurately influenced scholars of Augustine's views on war even up through modern times.\n\n"}
{"id": "37865791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37865791", "title": "Height of Buildings Act of 1899", "text": "Height of Buildings Act of 1899\n\nThe Height of Buildings Act of 1899 was a U.S. height restriction law passed by the 55th Congress in response to advancements in construction technology, specifically the use of iron and steel frames, along with thin veneer facades, which made it possible to build lighter, and consequently much taller buildings. Residents of densely populated cities, including Washington D.C., felt that the new technology was untested and steel-framed structures may suffer \"serious and fatal defects\" due to corrosion from steam pipes and electrical wiring – another relatively recent advancement. They believed that these new tall buildings would ultimately collapse. In an 1899 Senatorial Report, Senator Warren Curtis speculated that, \"the life of these structures might not be more than seventy-five years.\"\n\nAnother concern was the difficulty of extinguishing fires in the upper floors of tall buildings. At the time, firefighting equipment had been designed to fight flames primarily in low-rise buildings. The growing popularity of skyscrapers presented a new fire hazard. In his report, Senator Curtis wrote that, \"It would seem that the fire chiefs in the large cities who have had experience with high buildings are agreed that it is absolutely impossible for them to successfully fight flames over 85 feet (26 m) above the ground with the fire apparatus now manufactured, as the pressure is so great that no hose now made can stand the strain and the men are unable to handle the hose.\"\n\nIn response to these concerns, on March 1, 1899, United States Congress approved the Act to Regulate the Height of Buildings in the District of Columbia, or more commonly referred to as the Height of Buildings Act of 1899. The law limited the heights of new buildings based on building use and type of construction:\n\nBe it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States Of America in Congress assembled\",\n\nThe Height of Buildings Act of 1899 was later amended by the Height of Buildings Act of 1910.\n\nStructural corrosion and limitations of inadequate firefighting equipment are less of a concern today than at the turn of the century, and many major U.S. cities updated their zoning laws to reflect advancements in building technology. For example, the 1961 New York City zoning resolution used a Floor Area Ratio, rather than a height restriction, and allowed for taller buildings when an adjacent public space was provided on the site. Yet, in Washington D.C. subsequent zoning laws followed the precedent set by the 1899 Act, and limited buildings to lower heights. As a result, the skyline of Washington D.C. lacks skyscrapers, and is much lower than that of other major U.S. cities.\n\nIn a 2006 article published in The Washington Post, staff writer Michael Grunwald alluded to the popular belief that the building height restriction in Washington D.C. was originally based on the height of the U.S. Capitol Building. Referring to the Height of Buildings Act of 1899, he wrote, \"The original law limited buildings to the height of the Capitol.\" The belief has been further perpetuated by The American Surveyor Magazine, as well as the city's residents. In an article aimed at dispelling the myth that zoning laws in the District are currently bound to the height of the Capitol building, the blog \"We Love DC\" maintained that, \"the 1899 Height of Buildings Act established that no building could be taller than the Capitol (289 feet [88 m]).\"\n\nAlthough the belief that buildings in Washington D.C. are currently, or were at one time, restricted to the height of the U.S. Capitol building remains popular to this day, it is untrue, and has even become \"the stuff of local lore.\" The House of Representatives Report from December 1898, along with the Senate Report from the following year, show that when the bill to restrict the height of buildings was debated on the floor of Congress, no mention had been made of the U.S. Capitol building, or the height of its dome. None of the related House and Senate bills, or the Height Act itself made any mention of the Capitol building. Instead, the law set the maximum height of any building to 130 feet (39.6 m), the height limit that firefighting equipment could effectively reach at the time, and not the 289 feet (88 m) of the Capitol building, as perpetuated by the myth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1700791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1700791", "title": "Immigration detention", "text": "Immigration detention\n\nImmigration detention is the policy of holding individuals suspected of visa violations, illegal entry or unauthorised arrival, and those subject to deportation and removal in detention until a decision is made by immigration authorities to grant a visa and release them into the community, or to repatriate them to their country of departure. Mandatory detention is the practice of compulsorily detaining or imprisoning people seeking political asylum, or who are considered to be illegal immigrants or unauthorised arrivals into a country. Some countries have set a maximum period of detention, while others permit indefinite detention.\n\nIn the United States, a similar practice began in the early 1980s with Haitians and Cubans detained at Guantanamo Bay, and other groups such as Chinese in jails and detention centres on the mainland. The practice was made mandatory by legislation passed in 1996 in response to the Oklahoma City bombing, and has come under criticism from organizations such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Human Rights First, all of whom have released major studies of the subject, and the ACLU As of 2010, about 31,000 non-citizens were held in immigration detention on any given day, including children, in over 200 detention centres, jails, and prisons nationwide.\n\nThe T. Don Hutto Residential Center opened in 2006 specifically to house non-criminal families. There are other significant facilities in Elizabeth, New Jersey, Oakdale, Louisiana, Florence, Arizona, Miami, Florida, Seattle, York, Pennsylvania, Batavia, New York, Aguadilla, Puerto Rico and all along the Texas–Mexico border.\n\nDuring the five years between 2003 and 2008, about 104 mostly young individuals died in detention of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement or shortly afterwards, and medical neglect may have contributed to 30 of those deaths. On 6 August 2008, 34-year-old New Yorker Hiu Lui Ng died in the detention of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The editors of \"The New York Times\" condemned the death and urged that the system must be fixed. The Immigration and Customs Enforcement has stated that the number of deaths per capita in detention is dramatically lower for ICE detainees than for U.S. prison and jail populations, that they provide \"the best possible healthcare\" and that the nation as a whole is \"experiencing severe shortages of qualified health professionals\" In May 2008 Congress began considering a bill to set new standards for immigrant detainee healthcare.\n\nIn 2009, the Obama Administration pledged to overhaul the current immigration detention system and transform it into one that is less punitive and subject to greater federal oversight. Immigrants' rights advocates, however, have expressed concern that these reform efforts \"have been undermined by the agency’s continued overreliance on penal incarceration practices and by the pervasive anti-reform culture at local ICE field offices.\"\n\nSeveral Asian nations are known to imprison immigrants on visa violations or for alleged trafficking, including the victims of trafficking and smuggling. These include Singapore, Malaysia, and Indonesia.\n\nIn Australia, mandatory immigration detention was adopted in 1992 for all non-citizens who arrive in Australia without a visa. That only 'border applicants' are subject to detention has sparked criticism, as it is claimed to unfairly discriminate against certain migrants. Other unlawful non-citizens, such as those that overstay their visas, are generally granted bridging visas while their applications are processed, and are therefore free to move around the community. The long-term detention of immigrant children has also sparked criticism of the practice by citizen's groups such as ChilOut and human rights organisations. Nonetheless, the High Court of Australia has confirmed, by majority, the constitutionality of indefinite mandatory detention of aliens. This and related decisions have been the subject of considerable academic critique.\n\nAustralia has also sub-contracted with other nations to detain would-be immigrants offshore, including Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and Nauru. Australia also maintains an offshore detention facility on Christmas Island. In July 2008, the Australian government announced it was ending its policy of automatic detention for asylum seekers who arrive in the country without visas. However, by September 2012, offshore detention was reinstated. Following the Australian federal election, 2013 policies have been toughened and Operation Sovereign Borders has been launched.\n\nThree main detention centers:\n\nThere are eight detention centers known as CIEs (Centro de Internamiento de Extranjeros) run by the Spanish Ministry of the Interior. Expulsion paperwork can be initiated when a person is in one of the following situations:\n\n\nVarious civil organizations, such as (APDHA, SOS Racismo and Andalucía Acoge) have appealed to the Spanish Supreme Court to declare the regulations behind the CIEs null and void for violating eight aspects of human rights.\n\nIn Italy, the situation is mostly the same as in The Netherlands: irregular immigrants are sent to \"CIE\" (Identification and Expulsion Centres) if they don't have proper documents. Illegal entry and stay on the Italian territory became a criminal offence in 2009 (l. July 15, 2009, n. 94), after the Bossi-Fini law. Since they have the function of allowing confirm the identity of the persons held in view of a possible expulsion, or to hold persons awaiting expulsion to some, their sense of political track in relation to the legislative apparatus in its immigration entirety.\nIt has been reported by many NGOs and government organizations that the condition inside the centres are \"inhuman\". Amnesty International denounced that the \nimmigrants are placed in containers and in other types of inadequate housing in an extended stay, exposed to extreme temperatures, under conditions of overcrowding.\n\nIn 2002 and the following years, Malta began to receive a large influx of migrants. The government then begun to apply the 1970 Chapter 217 of the Laws of Malta (Immigration Act), providing for detention for all \"prohibited migrants\", including prospective asylum seekers, soon after apprehension by the immigration authorities. In 2003, the Maltese government substituted the indefinite detention policy with an 18-month detention length (the maximum under EU law) after which the applicant is transferred to an open centre if the processing of his/her application has not been finished.\n\nThe Maltese detention policy, the strictest in Europe, gathered heavy criticism by the UNHCR for the extensive duration of detention, and in 2004 it was also criticized by the Commissioner for Human Rights of Council of Europe, Álvaro Gil-Robles, as international standards required cautious and individual examination of each case and proper legal checks before incarceration, which were missing in the Maltese legislation. The Council of Europe also criticised four of the administrative detention centres as in \"deplorable conditions\" and failing to live up to legally binding international standards\n\nThe Ministry for Justice and Home Affairs pursued the migrants detention policy nevertheless, justifying it in 2005 by \"national interest, and more specifically, for reasons concerning employment, accommodation and maintenance of public order\". In 2008 an EP-OIM comparative study found that \"following a long stay in detention [illegal immigrants] are then released into the community [...] joining the black market economy and suffering abuse with regard to conditions of work.\n\nThe detention policy was criticised, in the following years, by NGOs and international bodies, including Human Rights Watch, the Jesuits and UNHCR. In 2012, the Council of Europe reiterated that such a policy is contrary to the prohibition of arbitrary detention in the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR).\n\nIn the Netherlands, foreigners who fail to obtain a residence status can be detained prior to deportation, as to prevent them from avoiding deportation. Detention centers are located in Zaandam, Zeist, and Alphen aan den Rijn. Besides these detention centers there are deportation centers in Schiphol and Rotterdam (at Rotterdam Airport).\n\nImmigration detention in the Netherlands is criticised for the circumstances immigrants are held in, which is often worse than that of criminal detainees, especially because of the lack of probationary leave, rehabilitation assistance, legal assistance, laws restricting the maximum detention time and a maximum time for judicial review from a judge.\n\nIn Portugal, the Ministry of Interior is responsible for immigration matters. The country currently has one officially designated immigration detention centre, located in Porto. Opened in 2006, the centre is managed by the luke Immigration and Borders Service.\n\n\nThere are also five Centros de Instalação Temporária (CIT, Temporary Installation Centres) located in each major airport: Porto, \nLisbon, Faro, Funchal and Ponta Delgada. Besides this government-led places, in Lisbon there are the Bobadela reception centre for asylum seekers run by the CPR (Portuguese Council for Asylum Seekers) and the Pedro Arupe reception centre managed by the Jesuit Refugee Service.\n\nIn Ukraine \"Temporary Detention Centres\" are run by the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine, responsible to the President.\n\n\nThe British Home Office has a number of detention centres, including, , 11 designated Immigration Removal Centres (IRCs), four designated Residential and Short Term Holding Facilities and one Non Residential Short Term Holding Facility. Four of the IRCs are managed by the Prison Service and the others are outsourced to private companies including Mitie, GEO Group, G4S and Serco. People can be detained under Immigration Act powers for a number of reasons. The largest category of detainees is people who have claimed asylum. Other people include those detained awaiting determination of their right to entry to the UK, people who have been refused permission to enter and are awaiting removal, people who have overstayed the expiry of their visas or have not complied with their visa terms, and people lacking the required documentation to live in the UK.\n\nThe Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 formally changed the name of \"detention centres\" to \"removal centres\".\n\nThe centres are:\n\n\nThe former Oakington Immigration Reception Centre near Cambridge was closed in November 2010.\n\nAdditionally, some prisons detain migrants or asylum seekers purely under Immigration Act powers, usually if they have been serving a prison sentence which has expired. There are also four short term holding facilities in Manchester, Dover, Harwich and Colnbrook.\n\nThe British government has been given powers to detain asylum seekers and migrants at any stage of the asylum process. The use of asylum has increased with the introduction of the process of 'fast track', or the procedure by which the Immigration Service assess asylum claims which are capable of being decided quickly. Fast-tracking takes place in Oakington Reception Centre, Harmondsworth and Yarl's Wood.\n\nThere are three situations in which it is lawful to detain an asylum seeker or migrant.\n\nOnce detained it is possible to apply for bail. It is preferable but not necessary to provide a surety and conditions will be provided, usually reporting, if bail is granted. There is legal aid for representation at bail hearings and the organisation Bail for Immigration Detainees provides help and assistance for those subject to detention to represent themselves.\n\nSince summer 2005 there has been an increase in the detention of foreign nationals since the Charles Clarke scandal which revealed that there were a number of foreign nationals who had committed crimes and had not been deported at the end of their sentence.\n\nCriticism of immigration detention focuses on comparisons with prison conditions in which persons are kept though they have never been convicted of a crime, the lack of judicial oversight, and on the lengthy bureaucratic delays that often prevent a person from being released, particularly when there is no evidence that the detainee will present a harm or a burden to society if allowed to remain at large while their situation is examined.\n\nRecently, the conditions of detention centres have been criticised, by the United Kingdom Inspector of Prisons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49276992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49276992", "title": "Institutional System", "text": "Institutional System\n\nInstitutional System- the principles of the Civil Code, developed by the French lawyers in the preparation of the Code Napoleon (1804). Institutional system involves the separation of code into three parts (books) - the first is devoted to the people, the second describes the types of property, and the third describes the methods of acquiring property. Generalities while absent.\n"}
{"id": "5584484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584484", "title": "Judicial scrivener", "text": "Judicial scrivener\n\n\"Judicial scrivener\" is a term used to refer to similar legal professions in Japan and South Korea. Judicial scriveners assist clients in commercial and real estate registration procedures and in the preparation of documents for litigation.\n\nIn Japan, are authorized to represent their clients in real estate registrations, commercial registrations (e.g. the incorporation of companies), preparation of court documents and filings with legal affairs bureaus. Judicial scriveners may also represent clients in summary courts, arbitration and mediation proceedings, but are not allowed to represent clients in district courts or more advanced stages of litigation. The more familiar term \"solicitor\" is also sometimes used to refer to them, although the division of responsibilities is not the same as between solicitors and barristers in the English legal system. The term \"judicial scrivener\", while somewhat archaic in tone, is a fairly accurate literal translation of the Japanese term.\n\nJudicial scriveners must pass an examination administered by the Ministry of Justice. The examination tests knowledge of twelve Japanese statutes, the four principal ones being the Civil Code, Real Estate Registration Act, Commercial Code and Commercial Registration Act. (The Corporations Act was added to the examination in 2006.) The examination consists of two written tests followed by one oral test; the overall pass rate is 2.8%. A person may also become qualified as a judicial scrivener by working for ten years as a court secretary, judicial secretary, or prosecutor's secretary.\n\nJudicial scriveners must maintain a membership in the for the prefecture in which they work. They can be found in solo practice or attached to law firms as employees of attorneys at law. A small number of judicial scriveners work as in-house counsel for companies, but there are strict conditions for registration of in-house judicial scriveners.\n\nWhen Japan adopted a Western-style court system in 1872, it established a profession of to represent clients in the preparation of documents, alongside the who represented clients in courtroom arguments (this latter profession became known as in 1890). A 1919 statute established a separate tier of to handle court documents. The modern \"shihō shoshi\" title was adopted under a revised statute in 1935, which was superseded by a new law in 1950. The other half of the \"daishonin\" profession was replaced by the administrative scrivener profession.\n\nSouth Korea has a similar legal profession known as beopmusa (Hangul: , Hanja: ).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23694543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23694543", "title": "Julia Tuttle Causeway sex offender colony", "text": "Julia Tuttle Causeway sex offender colony\n\nThe Julia Tuttle Causeway sex offender colony (also called \"Bookville\" by former residents) was an encampment of banished, registered sex offenders who were living beneath the Julia Tuttle Causeway—a highway in Miami, Florida, United States—from 2006 to April 2010. The colony was created by a lobbyist named Ron Book, who wrote ordinances in several different Miami-Dade County cities to restrict convicted sex offenders from living within of schools, parks, bus stops, or homeless shelters. Since Book was also head of the Miami Homeless Trust, he was also in charge of finding housing for the released sexual offenders. Under these ordinances, the only areas where sex offenders could legally reside within Miami-Dade County were the Miami Airport and the Florida Everglades. Miami-Dade laws are significantly stricter than State of Florida laws on residency restrictions for sex offenders. Florida State Law required that no sex offender could live within from \"where children gather\". Under that requirement, housing was possible; however, because of Book's lobbying, the Dade County Commission increased that number to , thereby banishing hundreds of local citizens who then began gathering under the Julia Tuttle Causeway.\nBefore the colony was established, the State of Florida provided sex offenders a list of locations where they could live that did not violate the boundaries set by the City of Miami, but the closest was in adjacent Broward County. (Broward County also has a serious problem with homeless sex offenders.) Although the Florida Department of Corrections initially denied that they were forcing the offenders to live under the bridge, the \"Miami New Times\" reported that internal communications in the Department of Corrections proved this was false, that released offenders were told to live in the colony or face more jail time, and sex offenders who were released were issued driver licenses by the State of Florida listing their addresses as the Julia Tuttle Causeway.\n\nAs many as 140 people lived in the colony in July 2009. They were required to be in the camp overnight from 6 pm to 7 am, when a representative from the Department of Corrections arrived to check that they were there. Most of the structures in the encampment, described by \"The Miami Herald\" as a \"shantytown\", were tents, improvised wood, or cardboard structures. Some had plumbing and cooking capacities, and residents of the colony shared generators for electricity, only used to recharge cell phones and the tracking devices they were required to wear.\n\nAs the number of residents grew, the City of Miami and the State of Florida disagreed over who was ultimately responsible for the sex offenders. Miami City Commissioner Marc Sarnoff, worried about how tourists perceived the colony, prompted an attorney from the Florida Department of Corrections to write a letter to the City of Miami absolving the Department of responsibility. The City of Miami responded by filing a lawsuit against the state, citing public health and safety concerns. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) had also filed a lawsuit against the City of Miami for imposing the rule for sex offenders when the State of Florida's law restricts them to from where children congregate. The ACLU said that the rule would allow many of the offenders to return home. The camp was under further scrutiny for being within the forbidden area; a city park on an island in Biscayne Bay caused questions about the Julia Tuttle Causeway colony's itself being in violation of the sex offender laws.\n\nLocal clergyman Vincent Spann likened the camp to a Biblical leper colony and offered to house the sex offenders in a manner similar to that which he employed to treat those recovering from drug and alcohol addiction. He predicted it would cost more than a million dollars a year. In September 2009, a judge responding to the lawsuit filed by the ACLU ruled that the City of Miami was allowed to set its own ordinances. The ACLU promised to appeal the decision. Miami was facing other lawsuits about moving the sex offenders. In February 2010 Miami-Dade County passed a new ordinance that still prevented sex offenders from living within of schools but only forbade them from living within of places such as parks and daycares. The county also made this ordinance effective throughout the whole county and declared any stricter ordinances passed by other Miami-Dade cities to be superseded and repealed. With this new county ordinance, various pockets of the county were now legal for sex offenders to live in, and most, but not all, of the sex offenders ceased to be homeless. Previously, the sex offenders had been banned in most parts of the county from living within of schools, daycare centers, parks, and in some places even school bus stops. As of March 2015, however, the problem continues.\n\nThroughout the camp's existence, the Miami-Dade County Homeless Trust, an organization tasked by the county to help end street homelessness in Miami-Dade County, had been working to find permanent housing for all of the sex offenders living under the bridge. The trust is chaired by Ron Book, the lobbyist who helped write and pass into law the restriction, prompted by the abuse of his daughter at the hands of a hired caretaker. On April 15, 2010, the Trust moved the last of the sex offenders living under the bridge into other housing. However, further protest from nearby communities ensued. Several former residents of the encampment were evicted from a Miami hotel in late April 2010.\n\nIn November 2011, the \"Miami Herald\" reported on the fate of the former Julia Tuttle Causeway colony, which former residents nicknamed \"Bookville\". Analysts studying the colony unanimously agreed on two relevant issues: the inability to find a stable home for offenders increased the risk that they would re-offend, and the close proximity of offenders to schools or parks did not increase the possibility that past offenders would re-offend. Despite these findings, Book solicited for and applied federal stimulus money to buy short-term stays for offenders, eventually costing US$1,000 a month which, as noted by the \"Herald\", would have been unnecessary without the more stringent law that Book championed. This is incorrect according to David Raymond, former executive director of the Homeless Trust: federal Stimulus funds were never utilized for this population in Miami-Dade County; the funds used were from the local Homeless Food & Beverage Tax. Rent subsidies, along with job placement services and case management, were provided for up to six months.\n\nResidents of Miami's Shorecrest neighborhood protested about the 13 sex offenders who had relocated there. Book placed another 43 offenders in a trailer park also housing many children. Book forewarned that the stimulus funds for housing the sex offenders would run out. The \"Herald\" reported that out of 1,960 sex offenders who had registered to live in Miami-Dade, 256 stopped reporting their locations to authorities.\n\nThroughout 2013 and 2014, evidence began to reach the news media that there was still a problem of homelessness amongst Miami-Dade sex offenders, despite the county's relaxation of the residency restrictions. Almost all of the Julia Tuttle Causeway residents found homes immediately after the camp was cleared, but many were once again homeless. A hotel that once housed many of the Causeway's former residents ended up evicting all sex offenders from the hotel after one was arrested for re-offending. Ron Book later found housing for many sex offenders in a trailer park. However, Book himself evicted the sex offenders from the trailer park after deciding that a nearby youth shelter was legally considered a school. Miami City Commissioner Mark Sarnoff has criticized the problem of homeless sex offenders in the county. However, Sarnoff himself has built miniature \"pocket parks\" in order to prevent sex offenders from being able to move into the Little River area of Miami, which Sarnoff represents. Now, many of the homeless sex offenders are sleeping on railroad tracks (although most have homes during the day since the Miami-Dade residency restriction only applies from 10 pm to 6 am.) In October 2014, the ACLU announced plans to again sue the county over the residency restrictions. A similar lawsuit by the ACLU against Miami-Dade County failed in the 2009 case Exile v. Miami-Dade County, when it was ruled that Florida law does not prevent localities from enacting stricter sex offender residency restrictions. (This is contrary to a New Jersey Supreme Court ruling that invalidated local sex offender ordinances on those grounds.)\n\nWhen Hurricane Irma hit in September, 2017, there were 233 sex offenders registered \"to the area of NW 71st Street and NW 36th Court\" in Hialeah, Florida, i.e., adjacent to the train tracks. This number has grown to about 300. Miami-Dade County, in response to the \"squalid\" conditions, health hazards, and complaints from local businesses, announced that as of May 6, 2018, camping on public property will become illegal.\n\nThe colony figures in the plot of the \"Dexter\" episode \"First Blood\" (season 5, 2010). The title character Dexter Morgan hunts there for a man he suspects of multiple rapes and murders.\n\nA media crew, Arte G.E.I.E from Germany, covered the story in depth, by filming a 30-minute documentary in 2010. National US television news magazine programs offered little coverage, and no American documentary had ever been broadcast on the topic.\n\n\"This American Life\" aired the story on their May 10, 2010 radio series episode titled \"The Bridge\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17880923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17880923", "title": "Ken Freedman", "text": "Ken Freedman\n\nKen Freedman (born February 18, 1959) is general manager of WFMU, a freeform radio station. He also co-hosts the conceptual comedy program Seven Second Delay with Andy Breckman, as well as hosting his own freeform radio program on Wednesday mornings (9:00–noon Eastern Time). He is the co-founder of Congera, a public benefit corporation.\n\nFreedman hosted his first radio program in 1976 as a DJ at Highland Park High School station WVHP. He served as station manager of WCBN-FM, the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor's freeform outlet, where he marked the 1980 election of Ronald Reagan by playing Lesley Gore's \"It's My Party (And I'll Cry If I Want To)\" for eighteen consecutive hours.\n\nFreedman joined WFMU as a DJ in December 1983, and succeeded Bruce Longstreet as general manager in August 1985. At the time, WFMU was licensed to and owned by Upsala College, and based in East Orange, New Jersey.\n\nIn February 1986, Freedman launched a program guide/zine called LCD (Lowest Common Denominator), featuring work by many internationally known writers and artists, including Nick Tosches, Jim Woodring, Drew Friedman, Gary Panter, Harvey Pekar, Dan Clowes, Tony Millionaire, and Chris Ware. In November 2007, \"The Best of LCD: The Art and Writing of WFMU\", was published by Princeton Architectural Press. It was compiled and edited by longtime WFMU radio host Dave \"The Spazz\" Abramson.\n\nIn 1989, Freedman successfully fended off a challenge to the station's license from four rival broadcasters, who claimed that WFMU was broadcasting above its legal power limit.\n\nIn 1992, he founded the non-profit organization Auricle Communications, which purchased WFMU's license from Upsala in 1994. These actions allowed WFMU to survive when the college went bankrupt in 1995.\n\nA core strategy for the station was to embrace the World Wide Web, launching its website in 1993, streaming its broadcasts full-time in 1997, and archiving most broadcasts from 2000. Under Freedman's management, annual donations to the station (which is funded exclusively by listener support) grew from $50,000 in 1983, to $750,000 in 1999, to over $1,800,000 in 2012. Freedman has made it his mission to keep up with digital technological developments and how they impact radio. \"I keep abreast of new technology mainly from my children and their friends, as well as the youngest generation of programmers and superfans at WFMU,\" he explained in a 2018 \"Radio World\" interview. \n\nFreedman pioneered the use of direct licensing for broadcasters, obtaining alternative copyrights and waivers to address restrictions placed on broadcasters by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. In 2007, Freedman built on these direct licensing activities and founded WFMU's Free Music Archive, an open source library of copyright-cleared music and audio which launched in April 2009.\n\nFreedman has served on the board of public science and technology company New Brunswick Scientific Company (purchased in 2004 by Eppendorf) and was a board member (for four years) and technology advisor to National Federation of Community Broadcasters (NFCB). He has spoken and presented at conferences sponsored by The Future of Music Coalition, National Public Radio, the Integrated Media Association, the Audio Engineering Society (AES), O'Reilly Media's Newsfoo Conference, The Awesome Foundation Summit, the University of British Columbia and the National Federation of Community Broadcasters.\n\nIn 2013, Freedman initiated the creation of a suite of software for broadcasters, journalists and online publishers known as the Audience Engine.\n\nIn 2013, he began performing stand-up comedy and has performed acts at the New York Comedy Club, the Broadway Comedy Club, the Greenwich Village Comedy Club and other venues in New York, New Jersey and San Francisco.\n\nFreedman is a resident of Hoboken, New Jersey. He has been married to Harriett (\"Hank\") Lewis since 1987. They have two children, Harry and Daisy. Ken's brother, Samuel G. Freedman, is an author of several books, as well as a religion columnist for \"The New York Times\", and a Professor at the Columbia School of Journalism. Their sister Carol is the founder of Carol's Creative Chocolatez.\n\n"}
{"id": "19325020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19325020", "title": "Law enforcement and society", "text": "Law enforcement and society\n\nThe first modern police force, commonly said to be the London Metropolitan Police, established in 1829, promoted the preventive role of police as a deterrent to urban crime and disorder.\n\nLaw enforcement, however, has only ever constituted a small portion of policing activity.\nPolicing has included an array of activities in different contexts, but the predominant ones are concerned with the preservation of order and the provision of services.\n\nIn some societies, in the late 18th century and early 19th century, these developed within the context of maintaining a layered societal structure and the protection of property.\nIn the United Kingdom in the late 18th century: \n\nIn the United States in the 19th century: \n\nIn 1690 John Locke wrote that:\nSimilarly, Adam Smith described how:\nThis close link between property and government (and thus police function) was also noted by John Jay, who repeatedly said that:\nAccording to Monaghan, this: and by US Founding Father James Madison. who declared that government:\nConsidering the state of law enforcement and society in 2013, Dr. Gary Potter states,\n"}
{"id": "2399015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2399015", "title": "Lean Government", "text": "Lean Government\n\nLean Government refers to the application of lean production (also known as \"Lean\") principles and methods to both identify and then implement the most efficient, value added way to provide government services. Government agencies have found that when Lean is implemented, they see an improved understanding of how their own processes work, that it facilitates the quick identification and implementation of improvements and that it builds a culture of continuous improvement.\n\nLean for government focuses on governing and serving citizens with respect and continuously improving service delivery by cutting out \"waste\" and \"inefficiency\" in processes; this in turn will result in better services overall, engaged civil servants as well as more value for tax-supported programs and services. Generally, proponents also see that a Lean government is a means to expand the capacity of government to provide more services per unit of investment.\n\nMany Lean manufacturing methods have been successfully adapted to identify non-value added activities (waste) in administrative, transactional, and office processes that are common in government agencies. Common Lean methods include:\n\n\nAs more and more government services are delivered electronically, Lean government initiatives are commonly applications of Lean IT.\n\nLean government approaches typically have the following characteristics:\n\n\nLean government does not necessarily promote low taxes, only efficient use of those taxes levied. Tax policy is discerned by the legislative and executive branches of government with oversight of the judicial branch of government. Lean government is implemented by the administrative function of government through executive order, legislative mandate, or departmental administrative decisions. Lean government can be applied in legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government.\n\nSeveral types of non-value added activity, or waste (muda in Japanese), are common in government administrative and service processes. Lean methods focus on identifying and eliminating these wastes. The list below identifies common administrative process wastes.\n\n\nWastes in administrative and service processes can relate to:\n\nNumerous government agencies, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the States of Iowa, Minnesota and Washington, are using Lean to improve the quality, transparency and speed of government processes. As in the manufacturing and service sectors, some government agencies are implementing Lean methods in conjunction with Six Sigma process improvement approaches.\n\nA source that lists all current vetted Lean Government initiatives at the Federal, State, City, County, and K-12 school levels is the Lean Government Center (since 2008): http://leangovcenter.com/govweb.htm\n\nU.S. federal government\n\nSome examples of federal government organizations with active Lean Government initiatives include:\n\nU.S. state government\n\nSome examples of state government organizations with active Lean Government initiatives include:\n\nA source that lists all current vetted Lean Government initiatives at the Federal, State, City, County, and K-12 school levels is the Lean Government Center (since 2008): http://leangovcenter.com/govweb.htm\n\nThe Environmental Council of the States (ECOS), in collaboration with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, works to support and coordinate information sharing among U.S. States implementing Lean Government approaches in public environmental agencies.\n\nU.S. local government\n\nSome examples of municipalities where lean government practices have been implemented include:\n\nA source that lists all current vetted Lean Government initiatives at the Federal, State, City, County, and K-12 school levels is the Lean Government Center (since 2008): http://leangovcenter.com/govweb.htm\n\nThe International City/County Management Association (ICMA) supports a program to assist local government organizations to improve government processes using Lean.\n\nCanada - Saskatchewan Provincial Government\n\n"}
{"id": "5589785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5589785", "title": "Legal science", "text": "Legal science\n\nLegal science is one of the main components in the civil law tradition (after Roman law, canon law, commercial law, and the legacy of the revolutionary period).\n\nLegal science is primarily the creation of German legal scholars of the middle and late nineteenth century, and it evolved naturally out of the ideas of Friedrich Carl von Savigny. Savigny argued that German codification should not follow the rationalist and secular natural law thinking that characterized the French codification but should be based on the principles of law that had historically been in force in Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22477693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22477693", "title": "Libertas ecclesiae", "text": "Libertas ecclesiae\n\nLibertas ecclesiae (\"freedom of the Church\" in Latin) is the notion of freedom of ecclesiastical authority from secular or the temporal power, which guided the Reform movement which began in the 11th century.\n\nAfter the decentralization of the post-Carolingian period, this became the slogan of the Church in light of disapproval over lay warlords installing themselves as abbots and other high-profile churchmen. Unfit to perform theological functions, much less to defend the interests of the Church, these warlords viewed Church property as an extension of their own landholdings.\n\nWhat resulted was the plunder of movable wealth (of which the monasteries had become the keepers during the period of Viking invasion) and the parcelling out of land and office as the temporal powers saw fit. This sorry state of the Church prompted enthusiasm for 'freeing' it from the direct control of these milites; Gregory VII helped frame this goal through the specifics of his reform program.\n\nIn addition to calling for spiritually pure figures at the helm of the Church, Gregory VII addressed the practical problems of pluralism (holding more than one church office) and poorly educated clerics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1825481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825481", "title": "MDV (TV station)", "text": "MDV (TV station)\n\nMDV is a joint venture television station between Prime Media Group and WIN Corporation. Based in Mildura, Victoria, Australia, it is a digital-only Network Ten affiliate run under the company name \"Mildura Digital Television Pty Ltd\", and began broadcasting on 1 January 2006. On 1 July 2016, due to WIN Television becoming the Network Ten affiliate in the region, MDV switched its affiliation to the Nine Network.\n\nThe station is a Nine Network affiliate, which is jointly owned by Prime Media Group and WIN Television. MDV is available on LCN 5 in the Mildura and Sunraysia area in standard-definition.\n\nNine's mulitchannels 9Gem (in high definition) and 9Go! are available on LCN 50 and LCN 55 respectively. Before MDV's affiliation change on 1 July 2016, Ten's multichannels One and Eleven were available on LCN 50 and LCN 55 respectively.\n\nWIN is responsible for handling playout and then transmits this signal via satellite to transmission facilities in Mildura. WIN also handles the business administration and advertising sales for MDV.\n\nThe Mildura/Sunraysia region changed frequencies as part of a nationwide retune process on 26 August 2014, and the station moved from UHF 33 to VHF 10 as a result of the retune.\n\n"}
{"id": "271980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271980", "title": "Madhhab", "text": "Madhhab\n\nA ( ', , \"way to act\"; pl. ', ) is a school of thought within \"fiqh\" (Islamic jurisprudence). In the first 150 years of Islam, there were numerous \"madhahib\", most of which have become extinct or merged with other schools. The Amman Message, which was endorsed in 2005 by prominent Islamic scholars around the world, recognized four Sunni schools (Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i, Hanbali), two Shia schools (Ja'fari, Zaidi), the Ibadi school and the Zahiri school.\n\nAccording to John Burton, “modern research shows” that fiqh was first “regionally organized” with “considerable disagreement and variety of view”. In the second century of Islam, schools of fiqh were noted for the loyalty of their jurists to the legal practices of their local communities, whether Mecca, Kufa, Basra, Syria, etc. (Egypt's school in Fustat was a branch of Medina's school of law and followed such practices -- up until the end of the 8th century -- as basing verdict on one single witness (not two) and the oath of the claimant. Its principal jurist in the second half of the 8th century was al-Layth b. Sa'd.) \nAl-Shafi‘i writes that, `every capital of the Muslims is a seat of learning whose people follow the opinion of one of their countrymen in most of his teachings`. The \"real basis\" of legal doctrine in these \"ancient schools\" was not a body of reports of Muhammad's sayings, doings, silent approval (the ahadith) or even those of his Companions, but the `living tradition` of the school as \"expressed in the consensus of the scholars\", according to Joseph Schacht.\n\nIt has been asserted that \"madhahib\" were consolidated in the 9th and 10th centuries as a means of excluding dogmatic theologians, government officials and non-Sunni sects from religious discourse. Historians have differed regarding the times at which the various schools emerged. One interpretation is that Sunni Islam was initially split into four groups: the Hanafites, Malikites, Shafi'ites and Zahirites. Later, the Hanbalites and Jarirites developed two more schools; then various dynasties effected the eventual exclusion of the Jarirites; eventually, the Zahirites were also excluded when the Mamluk Sultanate established a total of four independent judicial positions, thus solidifying the Maliki, Hanafi, Shafi'i and Hanbali schools. The Ottoman Empire later reaffirmed the official status of these four schools as a reaction to Shi'ite Persia.\nSome are of the view that Sunni jurisprudence falls into two groups: \"Ahl al-Ra'i\" (\"people of opinions\", emphasizing scholarly judgment and reason) and \"Ahl al-Hadith\" (\"people of traditions\", emphasizing strict interpretation of scripture).\n\n10th century Shi'ite scholar Ibn al-Nadim named eight groups: Maliki, Hanafi, Shafi'i, Zahiri, Imami Shi'ite, Ahl al-Hadith, Jariri and Kharijite. In the 12th century Jariri and Zahiri schools were absorbed by the Shafi'i school. Ibn Khaldun defined only three Sunni \"madhahib\": Hanafi, Zahiri, and one encompassing the Shafi'i, Maliki and Hanbali schools as existing initially, noting that by the 14th-century historian the Zahiri school had become extinct, only for it to be revived again in parts of the Muslim world by the mid-20th century.\n\nHistorically, the \"fiqh\" schools were often in political and academic conflict with one another, vying for favor with the ruling government in order to have their representatives appointed to legislative and especially judiciary positions. Geographer and historian Al-Muqaddasi once satirically categorized competing \"madhahib\" with contrasting personal qualities: Hanafites, highly conscious of being hired for official positions, appeared deft, well-informed, devout and prudent; Malikites, dull and obtuse, confined themselves to observance of prophetic tradition; Shafi'ites were shrewd, impatient, understanding and quick-tempered; Zahirites haughty, irritable, loquacious and well-to-do; Shi'ites, entrenched and intractable in old rancor, enjoyed riches and fame; and Hanbalites, anxious to practice what they preached, were charitable and inspiring. While such descriptions were almost assuredly humorous in nature, ancient differences were less to do with actual doctrinal opinions than with maneuvering for adherents and influence.\n\nGenerally, Sunnis have a single preferred \"madhhab\" from region to region, but also believe that \"ijtihad\" must be exercised by the contemporary scholars capable of doing so. Most rely on \"taqlid\", or acceptance of religious rulings and epistemology from a higher religious authority in deferring meanings of analysis and derivation of legal practices instead of relying on subjective readings.\n\nExperts and scholars of \"fiqh\" follow the \"usul\" (principles) of their own native \"madhhab\", but they also study the \"usul\", evidences, and opinions of other \"madhahib\".\n\nSunni schools of jurisprudence are each named after the classical jurist who taught them. The four primary Sunni schools are the Hanafi, Shafi'i, Maliki and Hanbali rites. The Zahiri school remains in existence but outside of the mainstream, while the Jariri, Laythi, Awza'i and Thawri have become extinct.\n\nThe extant schools share most of their rulings, but differ on the particular practices which they may accept as authentic and the varying weights they give to analogical reason and pure reason.\n\n\n\nThe Ibadi school of Islam is named after Abd-Allah ibn Ibadh, though he is not necessarily the main figure of the school in the eyes of its adherents. Ibadism is distinct from both Sunni and Shi'ite Islam not only in terms of its jurisprudence, but also its core beliefs.\n\nIn the modern era, Sadiq al-Mahdi, the former Prime Minister of Sudan, defined the recognized schools of Muslim jurisprudence as eight specific schools. The Amman Message, a three-point ruling issued by 200 Islamic scholars from over 50 countries, officially recognizes those eight legal schools of thought.\n\nThe Amman Message has been criticized by Sunni Barelvi groups. CIFIA, a Sunni Barelvi group based in Hyderabad regards the message as contrary to the teachings of Islam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12983612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12983612", "title": "Manitoba Justice", "text": "Manitoba Justice\n\nManitoba Justice is a department of the Government of Manitoba. It is overseen by the Minister of Justice and Attorney General, James Allum.\n"}
{"id": "23659133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23659133", "title": "Master of Jurisprudence", "text": "Master of Jurisprudence\n\nMaster of Jurisprudence is sometimes used as an alternative name for both Master of Laws and Master of Juridical Science.\n\nOffered within United States law schools, students of an M.J., or M.Jur., curriculum are often business professionals and/or Juris Doctor degree holders who wish to enhance their knowledge in a specialized field of law. A Master of Jurisprudence is highly beneficial for those that need an in-depth understanding of the law within current executive level positions.\n\nM.J. students are required to develop a comprehensive understanding of the operation of law as it applies to a specified area of law. Master of Jurisprudence program offerings may focus on Business and Corporate Governance Law, Immigration Law, Health Law, Administrative Law, Real Estate Law, and Risk Management. Some M.J. programs combine a combination of graduate level legal courses with MBA-style courses in concentrated areas of study.\n\nThe M.J. program typically ranges between 30 and 45 credit hours. Some students may be able to complete the program in as little as one year, depending on their academic status.\n\nMaster of Jurisprudence degrees are designed to provide a deeper understanding of the U.S. legal system to business professionals. While some classes may be shared with J.D. candidates, the MJur does not prepare recipients to sit for the bar exam to practice law, but rather provides a better understanding of legal issues related to the recipient's chosen field.\n"}
{"id": "27733508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27733508", "title": "Matthew Kramer", "text": "Matthew Kramer\n\nMatthew Henry Kramer FBA (born 9 June 1959) is an American philosopher, currently Professor of Legal and Political Philosophy at the University of Cambridge and a Fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge. He writes mainly in the areas of metaethics, normative ethics, legal philosophy, and political philosophy. He is a leading proponent of legal positivism. He has been Director of the Cambridge Forum for Legal and Political Philosophy since 2000. He has been teaching at Cambridge University and at Churchill College since 1994.\n\nKramer was born in Massachusetts and educated at Middleborough High School, Cornell University (B.A. in Philosophy) where he became a member of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, Harvard University (J.D.) and Cambridge University (Ph.D. in Philosophy and LL.D.).\n\nHis sixteen books as author and four as editor, as well as his dozens of journal articles, range over many areas of legal, political and moral philosophy. He has received several major research awards including a Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship (2001) and a Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship (2005). He is a subject editor for the Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy and is on the editorial board of the Oxford Studies in Political Philosophy, the American Journal of Jurisprudence, Law & Philosophy, Ratio Juris, and Legal Theory. He is also an Advisory Editor for the University of Bologna Law Review (general student-edited law journal).\n\nAt the undergraduate level he lectures and supervises in Jurisprudence, and he also lectures on Topics in Legal & Political Philosophy in the postgraduate LL.M. program. At Cambridge, he is a graduate supervisor both for Ph.D. students in the Law Faculty and for M.Phil. and Ph.D. students in the Philosophy Faculty.\n\nHe was a visiting professor at Hebrew University of Jerusalem in April 2009, and at Tel Aviv University in March 2012.\n\nIn 2014 he was elected a Fellow of the British Academy, the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\nAn inclusive legal positivist, Kramer argues in his book Where Law and Morality Meet that moral principles can enter into the law of any jurisdiction. He contends that legal officials can invoke moral principles as laws for resolving disputes, and that they can also invoke them as threshold tests which ordinary laws must satisfy. In opposition to many other theorists, Kramer argues that these functions of moral principles are consistent with all the essential characteristics of any legal system. He is also a leading proponent of the legal positivist argument that law and morality are separable, arguing against the position of natural-law theory, which portrays legal requirements as a species of moral requirements. According to him, even though the existence of a legal system in any sizeable society is essential for the realization of fundamental moral values, law is not inherently moral either in its effects or in its motivational underpinnings.\n\nInfluenced by the theories of Ronald Dworkin, Kramer is a moral realist who argues that \"moral requirements are strongly objective\" and that \"the objectivity of ethics is itself an ethical matter that rests primarily on ethical considerations.\" In his book Moral Realism as a Moral Doctrine, he thus claims that \"[m]oral realism - the doctrine that morality is indeed objective - is a moral doctrine.\" Unlike Dworkin, he believes that, although there is a determinately correct moral answer to most moral questions, there exists genuine moral indeterminacy in relation to some rare moral questions. He also distances himself from Dworkin's defense of value monism.\n\n"}
{"id": "43679677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43679677", "title": "Mawza Exile", "text": "Mawza Exile\n\nThe Exile of Mawzaʻ (the expulsion of Yemenite Jews to Mawza') , ;‎ 1679–1680, is considered the single most traumatic event experienced collectively by the Jews of Yemen, in which Jews living in nearly all cities and towns throughout Yemen were banished by decree of the king, Imām al-Mahdi Ahmad, and sent to a dry and barren region of the country named Mawzaʻ to withstand their fate or to die. Only a few communities, \"viz.\", those Jewish inhabitants who lived in the far eastern quarters of Yemen (Nihm, al-Jawf, and Khawlan of the east) were spared this fate by virtue of their Arab patrons who refused to obey the king's orders. Many would die along the route and while confined to the hot and arid conditions of this forbidding terrain. After one year in exile, the exiles were called back to perform their usual tasks and labors for the indigenous Arab populations, who had been deprived of goods and services on account of their exile.\n\nWith the rise to power of the Qāsimīd Imām, al-Mutawakkil Isma'il (1644–1676), there was a crucial turning point in the condition of Jews living under the Imamate kingdom of Yemen. He endorsed the most hostile policies toward his Jewish subjects, partly due to the claim that the Jews were aiding the Ottoman Turks during the local uprising against them. The rise of the Shabbathian movement in Yemen in 1666 exacerbated the problems facing the community, calling into question their status as protected wards of the State. One decree led to another. The king initially demanded their conversion to Islam and when they refused, he made them stand out in the sun without apparel for three days, which was later followed by harsher decrees. It is said that al-Mutawakkil Isma'il consulted with the religious scholars of Islam and sought to determine whether or not the laws concerning Jews in the Arabian Peninsula applied also to Yemen, citing Muhammad who was reported as saying, \"There shall not be two religions in Arabia.\" When it was determined that these laws did indeed apply to Yemen, since the country was an indivisible part of the Arabian Peninsula, it then became incumbent upon Jews living in Yemen to either convert to Islam or to leave the country. Yet, since the king fell ill and was bedridden, he did not presently perform his ill-designs to expel the Jews from his kingdom, but commanded the heir to his throne, al-Mahdi Ahmad, to do so.\n\nAl-Mahdi Ahmad of al-Ghirās, who is also known by the epithet \"Ṣafī al-Din\" (purity of religion), succeeded al-Mutawakkil Isma'il, but perpetuated the same hostilities toward his Jewish subjects as those made by his predecessor. Everything reached its climax between the years 1677 and 1680, when he ordered the destruction of the synagogues in Sana'a and elsewhere. By early summer of 1679, he gave an ultimatum unto his Jewish subjects, namely, that they had the choice of either converting to Islam, in which they'd be allowed to remain in the country, or of being killed by the sword. He gave to them three months to decide what they would do.\n\nThe king's words led to no small consternation amongst his Jewish subjects in Yemen, who immediately declared a time of public fasting and prayer, which they did both by night and day. Their plight soon became known to the local Yemeni tribesmen, whose chiefs and principal men pitied their condition and intervened on their behalf. They came before the king and enquired concerning the decree, and insisted that the Jews had been loyal to their king and had not offended the Arab peoples, neither had they done anything worthy of death, but should only be punished a little for their \"obduracy\" in what concerns the religion of Islam. The king, agreeing to their counsel, chose not to kill his Jewish subjects, but decided to banish them from his kingdom. They were to be sent to Zeilaʻ, a place along the African coast of the Red Sea, where they would be confined for life, or else repent and accept the tenets of Islam.\n\nThe Jewish community in Sana'a was concentrated in the neighborhood of al-Sā'ilah, within the walled city, as one enters Bab al-Shaʻub (the Shaʻub Gate) on Sana'a's north side. The chief rabbi of the Jewish community at that time was an elder to whom they gave the title of Prince (\"nasi\"), Rabbi Suleiman al-Naqqāsh, while the city's chief seat of learning was under the tutelage of Rabbi and Judge, Shelomo ben Saadia al-Manzeli (\"resh methivta\"). The Jews of Sana'a were given but short notice about the things that were about to happen to them. They had been advised to sell their houses, fields and vineyards, and that all property which they were unable to sell would automatically be confiscated and accrue to the Public Treasury (Ar. \"al-māl\"), without recompense.\n\nBy late 1679, when the king saw that they were unrelenting in their fathers' faith, he then decided to follow through with what he had determined for them and issued a decree, banishing all Jews in his kingdom to the Red Sea outpost known as Zeila'. On the 2nd day of the lunar month Rajab, in the year 1090 of the Hijri calendar (corresponds with Gregorian calendar, August 10, 1679), his edict was put into effect, and he ordered the Jews of Sana'a to take leave of their places, but gave more space to the provincial governors of Yemen to begin the expulsion of all other Jews in Yemen to Zeila', and which should be accomplished by them in a time period not to exceed twelve months. The Jews of Sana'a had, meanwhile, set out on their journey, leaving behind them their homes and possessions, rather than exchange their religion for another. In doing so, they brought sanctity to God's name.\n\nRabbi Suleiman al-Naqqāsh, by his wisdom and care for his community, had preemptively made arrangements for the community's safety and upkeep by sending written notifications to the Jewish communities which lay along the route, requesting that they provide food and assistance to their poor Jewish brethren when they passed through their communities in the coming weeks or days. The king's soldiers were sent to escort the exiles unto their final destination, while the king himself had sent orders to the governors of the outlying districts and places where it was known that the Jewish exiles were to pass through while \"en route\" to Zeila', commanding them not to permit any Jew to remain in those cities when they reached them, but to send them on in their journey.\n\nMeanwhile, while columns of men, women and children were advancing by foot southward with only bare essentials, along the road leading from Sana'a to Dhamar, Yarim, 'Ibb and Ta'izz, the chiefs of the indigenous Sabaean tribes who had been the patrons of the Jews came together once again and petitioned the king, al-Mahdi, this time requesting that the king rescind his order to expel all Jews unto the Red Sea outpost of Zeila', but to be content with their banishment to the Tihama coastal town of Mawza'. The reason being for this urgent request was that, by taking into consideration their troubles in a barren wasteland, those that will remain of them will be more inclined to repent and to choose the way of Islam, in which case it will be easier to hoist them from that place and to bring them back unto their former places. The grandees reminded the king how they had been faithful in implementing his orders. At hearing this, the king agreed and sent orders to the effect that Jewish exiles should be conducted only to Mawza'.\n\nBy the time the Jews of Sana'a reached Dhamar, they had already been joined by the Jewish villagers of Siān and Tan'am (located about eastward of Bayt al-Ḥāḍir, southeast Sana'a), all of which places lie within Sana'a's periphery. The Jews had sent fifteen letters to the king in al-Ghirās, asking him to forgive them of whatever offense they may have made and to permit them to remain in their former settlements, yet none of these did he answer.\n\nAround the beginning of September 1679, approximately one month after the Jews of Sana'a had set out for Mawza‛, Jews that hailed from Dhurān – a village situate about three days' walking distance southwest of Sana'a – were also evacuated from their village. In a letter written in 1684 to the Jewish community of Hebron, only four years after the community's return to Dhurān, the author describes the sufferings of the Jews who were forced to leave their homes and to go into Mawza‛. One important revelation that emerges from his account of these events is that the Jews of Yemen had tried to pacify the king's wrath by paying large sums of money to him, but which money the king refused to accept:\n\nThe author goes on to explain how that, when they reached their destination, they wept bitterly, since many of them had perished as in a plague, and they were unable to bury them because of the excruciating heat. When some of their party had tried to escape at night, approximately seventy men, the next morning when the sun arose they were stricken down by the intense heat, and there they died. The author concludes by saying, \"Now, this decree of exile was at the beginning of \"anno mundi\" 5440 (= 1679 CE), and the blessed God redeemed us at the [year's] end; the sign of which being: 'The punishment of your iniquity has \"ended\" ' .\" Here, the author makes a play on words; the Hebrew word for \"ended\" (Heb. תם) having the numerical value of 440, the same as the year when abbreviated without the millennium.\n\nMawzaʻ is a town situated eleven-days' walking distance from Sana'a, and ca. from the port of Mocha, in the Tihama coastal plain. During their long trek there, the king's soldiers pressed them on. Many of the sick and elderly and children died along the way. Others would later succumb to the harsh weather conditions of that place. All, however, suffered from hunger and thirst. Eventually, the community of Sana'a was joined by other Jewish communities from across Yemen. In Mawzaʻ they remained for one full year, until 1680, when the king's non-Jewish subjects began to complain about their lack of farm implements which had been exclusively made by Jewish craftsmen. The governor of `Amran went personally before the king with a petition to bring back his Jewish subjects. The king acquiesced and sent emissaries bearing food and water to call them back to their former cities. Some returned only to find their homes taken by usurping occupants. Others decided to move and to settle elsewhere in Yemen.\n\nRabbi Hayim Hibshush, speaking somewhat about this time, writes: \"For the duration of one year since this decree was first issued, they went as sheep to the slaughter from all the districts of Yemen, while none remained of all those districts who did not go into exile, excepting the district of Nihm towards the east, and the district of al-Jawf, as well as the eastern district of Khawlan.\"\n\nRabbi Yiḥyah Salaḥ (who is known by the acronym Maharitz) gives a most captivating account of these harrowing events borne by the Jews of Sana'a in the years leading up to their expulsion, as also when they left their city, based on a hand-written document preserved and copied down by subsequent generations. Some have judged the sum and bearing of these events as a mere microscopic example of the sufferings experienced by the Jewish inhabitants as a whole, in each and every city throughout Yemen. Thus, he gives the following account:\n\nThose Jews who survived, who returned either to Sana'a or to the other towns and villages, were mostly ill from being exposed to the changes in climate and from the poor quality of drinking water. In Sana'a, they were required to relinquish their ownership over their houses and fields within the city's wall, in the neighborhood of al-Sā'ilah, and were directed to build humble abodes in a new area outside of the city's walls, in a place then known as the \"hyena's field\" (Ar. \"Qāʻ al-simaʻ\"), or what later became known as \"Qāʻ al-Yahud \" (the Jewish Quarter). This place attracted other migrant Jews from the other towns and villages from which they had been expelled and soon grew into a suburb, situate about one kilometer beyond the walls which then existed on the extreme west-side of the city. The first synagogue to be built in this place was the Alsheikh synagogue, in which was housed the returnees most prized possessions: Torah scrolls and old, handwritten manuscripts. Jewish houses were made \"low, seldom more than two storeys, and built of sun-baked brick dressed with mud.\" Today, the place is called \"Qāʻ al-ʻUlufi\" (Ar. قاع العلفي). The lands upon which they built the new Jewish Quarter were lands provided by the king, but the Jews were later required to pay a monthly tenancy fee for the land, and which money accrued to the Muslim \"Waqf \" (mortmain land) for the upkeep of their own places of worship. Between the new Jewish Quarter and the city walls was a suburb full of gardens called \"Bi'r alʻAzab\" (the Single's Well), being once the Turkish Quarter. In subsequent years, the Jewish Quarter was also enclosed by a wall.\n\nAt that time, the Muslims passed a new edict which forbade Jews from dwelling within Muslim neighborhoods, so as not to \"defile their habitations,\" although they were at liberty to work in the city. Those who traversed between the Jewish Quarter and the city would go by foot, while those who were either aged or ill would make use of beasts of burden to carry them into the city, the Jewish Quarter being then at a distance of about one-kilometer from the city's walls. When these who had ridden upon donkeys were spied by the gentiles, they were presently envied by the gentiles, who then went unto the king and pressed upon him to outlaw their riding upon donkeys, saying that this mode of transportation seemed to be too extravagant for the Jews and would lead to a general unrest and eventual hegemony over the indigenous people. The king then passed a series of discriminatory laws (Ar. \"ghiyār\") meant to humiliate the Jews and which not only forbade their riding upon donkeys and horses, but also from walking or passing to the right side of any Muslim. Jews were to pass only on the left side of all Muslims. They also petitioned the king that a Jew would be prohibited by an edict from raising his voice against any Muslim, but to behave in a lowly and contrite spirit, and that offenders would be made punishable by flogging. Such were the conditions of the Jews at that time.\n\nThe Exile of Mawzaʻ brought about demographic changes that could be felt all across Yemen. In Sana'a, to distinguish the original inhabitants from incoming migrant Jews, all newcomers who chose to dwell in the newly built Jewish Quarter were given surnames, each one after the place from which he was exiled, so that a man who came from the district of Sharʻab was called so-and-so, al-Sharʻabi, or he that came from the village of Maswar was called so-and-so, al-Maswari. In the words of the Jewish chronicler who wrote \"Dofi Hazeman\" (Vicissitudes of Time), being one of the earliest Jewish accounts of the expulsion (initially compiled by Yaḥyā ben Judah Ṣa'di in 1725) and which work has since undergone several recensions by later chroniclers, we read the following testimony:\n\nDanish explorer, Carsten Niebuhr, who visited the Jewish Quarter of Sana'a in 1763, some eighty-three years following the community's return to Sana'a, estimated their numbers at only two-thousand. These had built, up until 1761, fourteen synagogues within the new Jewish Quarter. In 1902, before the famine of 1905 decimated more than half of the city's Jewish population, German explorer Hermann Burchardt estimated the Jewish population of Sana'a at somewhere between six and eight thousand. G. Wyman Bury, who visited the Jewish Quarter of Sana'a in 1905 noted a decrease in the city's population from 1891, estimated at 50,000 people (Jews and Muslims alike), to only about 20,000 people in 1905. By 1934, when Carl Rathjens visited Sana'a, the Jewish population in the city had swollen to about seven thousand.\nOne of the outcomes of the king's notorious decree was that Jewish property passed into Muslim hands. A Jewish public bath house in Sana'a was relinquished and passed into the proprietorship of the Muslim Waqf. So, too, the once famous synagogue within Sana'a's walled city and which was known as \"Kenisat al-'Ulamā\" (The Synagogue of the Sages) was turned into a mosque and called \"Masjid al-Jalā\" – the Mosque of the Expulsion, or \"of those banished.\" On the frieze (Ar. \"ṭiraz\") of the \"Masjid al-Jalā\" were inscribed words with invectives, in gypsum plaster (Ar. \"al-juṣ\"):\n\nOur king, al-Mahdi, is the sun of [religious] guidance / even Aḥmad, the [grand]son of him who rose to power, al-Qasim. Unto him is ascribed dignities, such as were not accorded / before [to any other], even in part. Had he not done aught but banish / the Jews of Ṣan'ā', who are the 'scum' of the world, and turned their venerable place (Ar. \"bi'ah\" = synagogue) into a mosque, / for bowing down unto God or standing [before Him in prayer], by that decree, he would have still been most triumphant. Now the time of this event happened to concur with the date that is [alluded to] in \"ghānim\" [victorious]\"; \"Ghānm\" = (), the numerical value of which letters adds up to A.H. 1091 = 1680 CE).\n\nRabbi Amram Qorah brings down a brief history of the said mosque, taken from a book originally drawn up in Arabic and which was entitled: \"A List of the Mosques of Ṣan'ā\"'. Therein is found a vivid description of the events which transpired in that fateful year and which reads as follows: \"Among the mosques built in the vicinity of al-Sā'ilah, northwards from the path which leads from al-Sā'ilah to al-Quzālī, and the mosque [known as] Ben al-Ḥussein built by the Imam of the Qasimid dynasty, the son of Muhammad (i.e. al-Mahdi Ahmad b. al-Ḥasan b. al-Qasim b. Muhammad), in the year A.H. 1091 (= 1679 CE) in the synagogue of the Jewish Quarter, who banished them from Sana'a and removed them unto a place befitting them, [a place] now known as \"Qāʻ al-Yahud\" on the west side of Sana'a, just as it has been intimated by the scholarly judge, Muhammad b. Ibrahim al-Suḥuli, etc.\" Rabbi Amram Qorah then proceeds to bring down the words or panegyric inscribed on the frieze of the mosque in rhymed verse (see: \"supra\"), and which apparently had been composed by the said judge, in which he describes the exploits of the king who banished the Jews and who converted their synagogue into a mosque.\n\nRabbi Amram Qorah, in the same work, brings down Rabbi Pinheas ben Gad Hacohen's account of events, whose testimony he found written in the margin of the first page of a Prayer Book (\"Siddur\"), written in 1710:\n\nNow I shall inform you, my brethren, about what has happened to us at this time, since the beginning of \"anno\" 1,990 of the Seleucid Era (1678 CE) and in 1,991 [of the same] (1679 CE), how that the king made a decree and demolished all the synagogues of all the towns of Yemen, and there were some of the books and sacred writings that were desecrated at the hand of the gentiles, on account of our great iniquities, so that we could no longer make our [public] prayers, save only a very few [men] secretly within their houses. Afterwards, the king made a decree against the Jews to expel them into the wilderness of Mawzaʻ, while they, [at this time] demolished also their houses. However, there were some who managed to sell their house; what was worth one-thousand gold pieces they sold for one-hundred, and what was worth one-hundred gold pieces they sold for ten. So that, by these things, we were for a reproach amongst the nations, who continuously sought after ways by which they might cause us to change [our religion], O may God forbid! So, all of the exiles of Israel stood up and laid aside their most beloved and precious possessions as a means by which God's name might be sanctified, blessed be He, including their fields and their vineyards, and delivered themselves up as martyrs for God's name sake, blessed be He. And if one had need of going out into the marketplace, he could not avoid being the object of hatred and spite, while there were those who even attacked him or called him by abusive language, so that there was fulfilled in this, our generation, the scripture that says, \"Who will raise up Jacob, for he is too small\" to bear all the afflictions. So, too, was there fulfilled in us by reason of our iniquities the scripture that says, \"And I shall send a faintness into their hearts\" . Yet, the divine Name, blessed be He, gives us strength to bear all those troubles and travails each day.\n\nAnother man who witnessed these events, Shalem 'Ashri, also wrote a suppliant poem about the events of that year – the Exile of Mawzaʻ, now preserved in the Yemenite \"Diwān\", which same poem is meant to be chanted as a slow dirge by one or, at the most, two individuals, who are then answered by others who sit in attendance. It is sung without the accompaniment of musical instruments, although a tin drum is sometimes used, in accordance with what is customary and proper for the \"nashid\" (a rejoinder). His own name is spelt out in acrostic form in the first letters of each stanza:\n\"I shall shed my tears – like rain they shall pour down / over all the pleasant sons who have gone forth into exile.\nThey have forgotten what pertains to their happiness, and have also been diminished. / They journeyed in haste; along the parched ground they trod.\nOn the day when 'Uzal (i.e. Ṣan'ā') went into exile, they took up his burden.\nThe sun and the moon were extinguished at their departure!\nA multitude of the handmaid's sons have ruled over them. / Wrath, and also jealousy, they've poured out upon them.\nSo that they have inherited all of the glory, even their sublime honour!\nWhilst the dwelling place of God's glory, they have been given power to destroy! \nMidrash, as also the Talmud and the Torah, they have abolished. / Constable and elder were, both, drawn away by their hands.\nOrion and Pleiades, as well as the crescent moon, have become dim! / Even all the luminous lights, their light has turned into darkness!\nThe beauty of their homes and their money they had entirely looted. / Every oppressor and every governor have prepared their bow for shooting.\nPreserve, O Master of the universe, those who are your peculiar friends, / Hadoram (i.e. Dhamar), God's congregation, have been drawn after you!\nThe heads of their academies have borne patiently the exile, / to do even the will of God, having valued the commandments.\nRedeem, O Master of the universe, your friends who have inherited / the Divine Law and sound wisdom, by which they have been blest!\nFor the honour due to the writing of thine own hand on the day when they were gathered, / may you call to remembrance and deliver them during the time of their flight.\nMy name is Shalem; 'tis written in the locked rhyme. / Rejoice in God's Divine Law, and bless His name!\"\n\nOriginal: \n\nאזיל דמעותי כמטר יזלו / על כל בני חמדה בגלות הלכו.\nנשו לטובתם וגם נתדלדלו / נסעו בחפזון בציה דרכו.\nיום גלתה אוזל וסבלו סבלו / שמש וירח בצאתם נדעכו.\nשפעת בני אמה עליהם משלו / חמה וגם קנאה עליהם שפכו.\nלכלל יקר הדרת כבודם נחלו / ומעון כבוד האל להחריב נמלכו.\nמדרש וגם תלמוד ותורה בטלו / שוטר וגם זקן ידיהם משכו.\nעיש וגם כימה וסהר אפלו / גם כל מאורי אור מאורם חשכו.\nאת כל נאות ביתם וכספם שללו / כל צר וכל מושל לקשתם דרכו.\nשמרה אדון עולם ידידים נסגלו / הדורם עדת האל אחריך נמשכו.\nראשי ישיבתם לגלות סבלו / לעשות רצון האל ומצות ערכו.\nיגאל אדון עולם ידידים נחלו / תורה ותושיה ובה נתברכו.\nלכבוד כתב ידך ביום שנקהלו / תזכר ותצילם בעת יתהלכו.\nשלם שמי כתוב בחרוזים ננעלו / שמחו בתורת אל ולשמו ברכו.\nIn the following poem of the subgenre known as \"qiṣṣa\" (poetic tale), composed mostly in Judeo-Arabic with only two stanzas written in Hebrew, the author gives a long testimony about the events which transpired during that year of exile. The poem is entitled, \"Waṣalnā hātif al-alḥān\" – \"Tidings have reached us,\" and is the work of the illustrious poet, Shalom Shabazi, who was an eye-witness to these events and whose name is inscribed in the poem in acrostics. The rhyme, however, has been lost in the translation: \n\n\"Tidings have reached us on the second day of [the lunar month] \"Rajab\" (i.e. corresponds with the 2nd day of the lunar month Elul), saying, 'My companions, arise and ascribe singularity unto the Merciful One, and read [the decree] that has been inscribed! Hearken to these matters, and let not your mind be distracted, for the appointed time is at hand. Al-Mahdi the king has decreed over us that we take flight.' The Jews of Sana'a then took leave, and have wandered unto those select places, even unto the habitation of vipers and brute beasts. Even from al-Mahjam and from Dar'ān it was decreed over us to leave; by authorization of an edict which has overcome us. Now, we shall wait in Mawza'; there we shall dwell in the far reaches of the land belonging to the inhabitants of Arabia.\n\nAll of the inhabitants of 'Uzal (i.e. Ṣan'ā') were obedient, and they assembled in Dhamar. My companion, tighten the camel's gear and we'll begin moving after the ass. Let us proceed to 'Adinah, then to 'Amirah, and to al-'Ammār, while there we shall make camp. As for the young ones and those who were weak, their tears flowed like riverine brooks. 'Idaynah, receive those who are beloved! Go out to the gate of the city to welcome them! Now is the hour of testing those who are friends. Let them take pleasure in the weary fugitive, so that his fatigue might depart from him. Lo! They are the sons of the tribes and of those who are pious; those who are highborn and of gentility.\n\n\"Ṣafī al-Din\" (i.e. al-Mahdi) has already given the order that we not remain in our places. Whether rich man or poor man, or he that is respectable, together they have gone forth; let us proceed according to our ability, under the influences of Saturn's horoscope; its evil portent will bring destruction. If its light flickers, it is about to change. The wisdom of the Blessed God has decreed upon the Sages of Israel, even the chosen sons of Jacob. Our elder, Suleiman [al-Naqqāsh] the Helmsman, will be the judge of those attempting to bypass [his decree]. In his hand there is the Imām's order for all to see, while there is nothing disparaging about the matter.\n\nI am curtailed of my sleep from dismay, while tears run down my cheeks. When our elder, al-Naqqāsh, had arrived, all of the Jews [who had come out to see him] were shaken-up. 'Let us go out into the barren wasteland, a place of monstrous beasts and every kind of lion. Happy is he who returns safely from that place. We have already sold our fields, have forsaken our houses, and have submitted to the decree of our lord, [the king].' The young men wept, as also the pious men, when His anger was turned against us. Consider, O Lord, and reflect upon how many distinguished men, as well as those who were delicately raised, have been humiliated!\n\nWeep, O Rachel, in our city for [your] wandering sons! Stir up our forefathers, let them arise, standing upon their feet, so that they may make mention of our fathers who, with grace, insist upon God's unison. May God's favour accompany us, in whose shadow we fervently desire. Let him gather those who dwell in Yemen, seeing that He is a Shepherd and the Faithful God. We shall then hear the song of the sons of Heman (i.e. the sons of Zerah, the son of Judah). Let him then take away the poison of the adder, which is most bitter. Let him command Yinnon (i.e. the Messiah) and the Prefect [of the priest] (i.e. Elijah, the forerunner of the Messiah), and let him say to him: 'Draw nigh!'\n\nBy the merit of our forefathers, by the favour [with which you have favoured] Levi who is of Jacob's seed, make level [the ground] along the route in your wilderness for the son who is, both, comely and good. And by the nut tree garden may you sedate my heart which is in pain. As for Gabriel and the rooster, I have heard them in the street, whilst my pigeon is at rest; she calls out to the poor: 'Release [them] from their bonds!' In Zion there is to be found relief, whilst our portion is in the Garden of Eden, just as a son who is dearly loved. We shall then behold the house of our God, and the houses of Gischala (Heb. Gush Ḥalab).\n\nThe Mashtaite has said: O God, remove mine affliction. Our strength is brought low in Yemen, in the days of my exile. In both small and great matters, I think about my case. Now, by the abundance [of afflictions] delights have been diminished. O gracious God! He who instructs my tongue to speak, Heaven forbid that you have forgotten me! Unto Whom belong signs and wonders. Behold, it was upon us that He bestowed His bounty, and He has chosen Moses, the son of Amram, our beloved prophet!\n\nThe pampered pigeons are cooing in the tops of the citadels. The householders of al-Sā'ilah who have come to visit al-Mahdi are complaining [before him] about how destruction and evil have come over them. They recall the conversations revolving around the Divine Law spoken [between their walls], and the vines and the flowers [in their gardens]; they recall also the social gatherings where wine was served, and the chalices, and the splendour of their wedding feasts, where [a man] would delight himself in them, become inebriated, but would avoid that which is obscene or mockery; [he'd drink] pure wine, whatever kind at hand, whose colour was as gold!\n\nThe Book of the Law (i.e. Torah) calls out to all wise men, and says: 'Have you neglected the study of the Law? It is the reason for their ignorance. Let them repent before the masters and return unto their Lord. The day of redemption is nigh, and He shall gather together their dispersed. There is a time for drinking wine, together with [eating] dainties, and there is a time for delving in wisdom. He, whose wine makes him heavy laden, let him sleep [and rest] from his weariness and from his burden. Let him wake-up to drink a second cup, such as may be imposed upon him.\n\nIn conclusion, [let us pray] that He who is congenial (i.e. God) might conceal us in the covert of His mercy. The Benevolent One shall not forget us, while we shall proclaim the eminence of His bountiful grace. He that will console us, may he be merited with a good life. He that gives to us clothing, may his own wishes be fulfilled. My salutations go out unto those of my companions on this happy, but powerful night; [which shall continue unabated] until Venus comes out [in the sky]. That which my God has decreed shall come to pass, while for every thing there is a reason. The birds will once again trill at the top of the ben [nut] tree (\"Moringa peregrina\") in the fruitful orchard.\"\nAnother record of these events, composed here in poetic verse (although the rhyme has been lost in the translation), is the poem composed by Sālim ben Sa'īd, in Judeo-Arabic. The poem is written as a \"nashid\" and is entitled, Ibda' birrub al-'arsh\" (I shall commence by addressing Him who is upon the throne). \n\n\"I shall commence by addressing Him who is upon the throne [of glory], even He that is an Omniscient God, the Creator of all creatures; He who causes the dumb to speak.\n\nI was curtailed of my sleep this night, while my heart was aching on account the king's decree; he that has made a decree against us by an oath.\n\nHe has revealed his ill-intentions on a dark night, one made sullen by the shadow of death; and who has sent against us soldiers and oppressors.\n\nWe lifted up our voices unto God of heaven, [saying]: 'Remove from us the evil of this decree. Behold! You are He that governs all!'\n\nThey have destroyed all of the cities, and have cast their fear upon the Sages. There is none who takes an interest in our case, nor anyone who will take pity upon us.\n\nHe lifted up his right hand and swore, 'They have no choice but to be banished unto Mawza!'\n\nHe commanded to destroy the synagogues which were in Sana'a, the habitation of the Divine Law and the seating place of the Sages.\n\nHe forced (?) them to go out into a parched land, the Tihama and al-Mahjam.\n\nThey wandered unto Mawza' and walked along the paths, in the fierce blaze of heat and with severe thirst.\n\nOn the day in which he took them out of their houses, their eyes rained tears of blood. They had gone out a short distance in the dark of night.\n\nSeveral distinguished persons, and several disciples of the Sages [went forth into exile]; they and their little ones, who were without understanding.\n\n'You are obliged to go forth into exile; `tis from the Lord of Heaven, who once delivered us from the hand of wicked Pharaoh.'\n\nMy heart moans over my relatives who are missing. I have no pleasure in sleep, nor in bread or water!\n\nA flame burns inside of me, ever since the evil tidings [of the king's decree] reached me; I have become perplexed.\n\nPraised be the Creator of the heavenly circuits, the Ruler of all [things], unto whom none can be compared.\n\nYour covenant and your signs have been forever. You have intoxicated your people with the waters of Abraham, [made during] the covenant between the dissected halves.\n\nBut now, O king of most puissant kings, your people are sadly distressed and are deprived of all things.\n\nThey (i.e. the gentiles) cast their fear upon us, while the horsemen inflict us. No one tries to help us, nor is there anyone who takes pity upon us.\n\nThey have humiliated our religion, and have called out to us to become Muslims; even to sin and to desecrate your Divine Law.\n\nHe (i.e. the Imām) has issued against us frequent declarations; shall we not fear the punishment of God on High?\n\nOur elders have gone forth into exile by an urgent command, whether willingly or unwillingly.\n\nI have concluded my words, my brethren! Take-up my salutations and remain silent! Our hope is in God the Omniscient.\n\nRemember me, O God, on account of the Divine Law's hidden mystery! So, too, remember Jacob, 'the man of pure intentions' [dwelling in tents]!\n\nRemember Moses who built for you the Tent of Convocation in the Sinai wilderness, on the day in which your Divine Presence dwelt thereon.\n\nDo not forget Isaac, your bound [servant], on the day in which he spoke to Abraham face to face.\n\nPraise be to you, O Master of the universe! `Tis from me, Sālim ben Sa'īd, who has written rhymed verse.\" \nIn 1859, Lithuanian Jew, Jacob Saphir, visited the Jewish community in Yemen, less than two-hundred years after the Exile of Mawza', but still heard vivid accounts from the people about the things that befell their ancestors during that fateful event. Later, he made a written account of the same in his momentous ethnographic work, \"Iben Safir\". The full, unabridged account is given here (translated from the original Hebrew):\n\n\"[The Jews] dwelt securely, beneath the shadow of the kings of that country, until three-hundred (sic) years ago while they were dwelling in that chief metropolis, when the daughter of the king became pregnant outside of wedlock, and they laid the blame upon a Jewish man, one of the king's courtiers and of those who behold his countenance. However, the king's wrath wasn't assuaged until he had banished all of the Jews from that city and the surrounding regions, expelling them to the region of Tihama, a desolate wilderness (a walking distance of ten days' journey in a south-westerly direction from Sana'a), between Mocha and Aden; a salty land, and one of very fearsome heat, while they were all tender and accustomed to delicacies. Many of them died along the way, while those who came there could not bear the climate of that place and its infirmities. Two thirds of them succumbed and perished, and they had entertained the notion that all of them would perish either by the plague, by famine or by thirst, may God forbid. Now during the time of this exile and perdition, they had lost all of their precious belongings, and their handwritten books, as well as their peculiar compositions which they possessed of old. I have also seen their synagogues and places of study used by them of old in the city of the gentiles; eternal desolations 'and where demons will be found making sport' , on account of our great iniquities. Notwithstanding, it is by the mercies of the Lord that we have not perished. He (i.e. God) did not prolong the days of their exile, but sent great distempers upon the king and upon his household. (They say that this was on account of the virtue of that pious Rabbi, the kabbalist, even our teacher and Rabbi, Mori Sālim al-Shabazi, may the memory of the righteous be blessed, who brought about multiple forms of distempers upon that cruel king, who then regretted the evil [that he caused them] and sent [messengers] to call out unto them [with] a conciliatory message, [requesting] that they return to their place – with the one exception that they not dwell with them in the royal city built as a fortress. He then gave to them a possession, being a grand inheritance outside of the city, which is \"al-Qaʻa\", \"B'ir al-ʻAzāb\" – the plain wherein is the cistern known as \"ʻAzāb\", and they built there houses for their dwelling quarters and built for themselves an enclosing wall which extended as far as to the wall of the city built like unto a fortress. In only a short time God assisted them, and they built there a large city and one that was spacious. They also acquired wealth and they rose to prominence, while many of the villagers likewise seized [upon land] with them, that they might dwell in the city, until it became [a place] full of people. At that time, Mori Yiḥya Halevi was the \"Nasi\" among them and the Exilarch.)\"\nThere are several references to Jewish life in Sana'a before the expulsion of 1679. Maharitz (d. 1805) mentions in his Responsa that before the Exile of Mawza the Jews of Sana'a had an old custom to say the seven benedictions for the bridegroom and bride on a Friday morning, following the couple's wedding the day before. On Friday (Sabbath eve) they would pitch a large tent within a garden called \"al-Jowzah\", replete with pillows and cushions, and there, on the next day (Sabbath afternoon), the invited guests would repeat the seven benedictions for the bridegroom and bride, followed by prayer inside the tent, before being dismissed to eat of their third Sabbath meal, at which time some accompanied the bridegroom to his own house to eat with him there. The significance of this practice, according to Maharitz, was that they made the seven blessings even when not actually eating in that place, a practice which differs from today's custom.\n\nGerman-Jewish ethnographer, Shelomo Dov Goitein, mentions a historical note about the old synagogue in Sana'a, before the expulsion of Jews from the city in 1679, and which is written in the glosses of an old copy of the Mishnah (\"Seder Moed\"), written with Babylonian supralinear punctuation. The marginal note concerns the accurate pronunciation of the word אישות in Mishnah \"Mo'ed Ḳaṭan\" 1:4, and reads as follows: \"Now the Jews of Sana'a read it as אִישׁוּת (\"ishūth\"), with a [vowel] \"shuraq\" (\"shuruk\"). I studied with them a long time ago, during the time when the synagogue of Sana'a was still standing \"in situ\".\"\n\nUpon returning to Sana'a, the Chief Rabbis, led by R. Shelomo Manzeli and Yiḥya Halevi (called \"Alsheikh\"), came together in the newly built Alsheikh synagogue and decided to put in place a series of enactments meant at bettering the spiritual condition of the community, and which they hoped would prevent the recurrence of such harsh decrees against the Jewish community in the future. These enactments were transcribed in a document entitled \"Iggereth Ha-Besoroth\" (Letter of Tidings), and which was believed to have been disseminated amongst the community at large. Only excerpts of the letter have survived. The enactments called out for a more strict observance of certain laws which, heretofore, had been observed with leniency. Such strictures were to be incumbent upon the entire community and which, in the Rabbis' estimation, would have given to the community some merit in the face of oppression or persecution. Not all of these enactments, however, were upheld by the community, since some enactments were seen as breaking-away from tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45571177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45571177", "title": "Meta-regulation", "text": "Meta-regulation\n\nMeta-regulation is a form of regulation that encourages self-regulation of firms. In contrast to traditional forms of regulation, where decisions concerning rules are decided by the regulator, meta-regulation has firms create their own rules while observing and monitoring those rules. The advantages of self-regulation are that devolved structures of regulation allow for greater learning in complex and uncertain environments. Firms with the potential for catastrophic failure such as finance, oil drilling, mining, manufacturing, etc. often desire effective regulation to prevent such failures because of cost and damaged public relations. \n\nMeta-regulation is said to have the advantage of fostering norms of reflexivity among institutions, as they are forced to conscientiously consider optimal levels of regulation and elucidate the reasoning to regulators. In an ideal world of meta-regulation the motivations for both regulators and regulates become the same by diffusing the norms of safety and stability. Meta-regulation in practice has been critiqued as relying too heavily on notions of consensus and rationality (see Simon, 2017)\n\nSources on Meta-regulation:\n"}
{"id": "57764656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57764656", "title": "Ministry of Justice and Police (Suriname)", "text": "Ministry of Justice and Police (Suriname)\n\nAmong its responsibilities, the Ministry of Justice and Police of Suriname enforces human rights, provides social legal assistance, oversees policies regarding detainees, and maintains public order and peace in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "12601703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12601703", "title": "North Carolina Identity Theft Protection Act of 2005", "text": "North Carolina Identity Theft Protection Act of 2005\n\nThe North Carolina Identity Theft Protection Act of 2005 is a series of broad laws that was passed by the General Assembly of the U.S. state of North Carolina to prevent or discourage identity theft as well as guarding and protecting individual privacy.\n\nNorth Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper proposed the Identity Theft Protection Act of 2005 which was introduced by Senator Dan Clodfelter. The act was designed to strengthen safeguards for personal information, requiring businesses and government to better protect sensitive financial information, and gave consumers more tools to fight theft of their information. This includes more restriction on the collection, use, and safekeeping of a consumer's social security number and consumer financial information. The Act requires businesses, charities and government to notify individuals if a security breach has compromised any personal information and placed them at risk of identity theft. North Carolina consumers were given the right to obtain a Security Freeze on their credit reports. Placing a security freeze on a credit report would prohibit credit reporting agencies from releasing any information about you to new creditors, making it difficult for an identity thief to open an account or obtain credit in your name. Further the Act gave the right to sue for civil damages in the event of identity fraud / theft. The Act covers everything from rights to penalties. SESSION LAW 2005-414 and SENATE BILL 1048.\nThe Act applies to any entity (financial institutions, charities, government, businesses, etc.). Companies located in and out of North Carolina that conduct business in state or keep personal information of state residents are required to comply. Compliance falls under the Attorney General's jurisdiction. Detailed information is available from the North Carolina Attorney General's office. The requirements cannot be waived by individuals.\n\"Skimming\", a process of defrauding consumers by scanning credit card or debit card encoded data, became prohibited under this Act's 2003 predecessor.\n\n\nLaws of this nature are being passed by legislatures all over the United States. Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Minnesota, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Washington have passed laws relating to identity theft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4385315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4385315", "title": "Northwestern University Law Review", "text": "Northwestern University Law Review\n\nThe Northwestern University Law Review is a scholarly legal publication and student organization at Northwestern University School of Law. The \"Law Review\"s primary purpose is to publish a journal of broad legal scholarship. The \"Law Review\" publishes six issues each year. Student editors make the editorial and organizational decisions and select articles submitted by professors, judges, and practitioners, as well as student pieces. The \"Law Review\" recently extended its presence onto the web, and now regularly publishes scholarly pieces on \"Northwestern University Law Review Online\".\n\nFirst published in 1906 as the \"Illinois Law Review\", the \"Law Review\" has been staffed and managed by numerous individuals who went on to become well-known legal scholars and practitioners. Prior Editors in Chief include: Roscoe Pound, long-time dean of Harvard Law School; Justice John Paul Stevens; Governor Daniel Walker; and Newton N. Minow, former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. Other editorial officers have included Justice Arthur Goldberg and Adlai Stevenson.\n\nSelected notable contributors to the \"Law Review\" include Dean Leon Green, Sir William Holdsworth, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Albert M. Kales, Nathan William MacChesney, Charles T. McCormick, Sir Frederick Pollock, Dean Roscoe Pound, Dean John Henry Wigmore, Justice Felix Frankfurter, Justice Tom Clark, Justice William O. Douglas, Justice Abe Fortas, Chief Judge Harry T. Edwards, Erwin Griswold, Archibald Cox, Paul Freund, W. Willard Wirtz, Albert Ehrenzweig, H. L. A. Hart, Gerald Gunther, Edward H. Levi, Hubert Humphrey, Brunson MacChesney, Nathaniel Nathanson, Dean James A. Rahl, Dean (now professor) David Ruder, Martin Redish, Kenneth Culp Davis, Raoul Berger, Bernard Schwartz, Ian Macneil, John C. Coffee, Gary Lawson, Mary Kay Becker, Stephen Schulhofer, Nadine Strossen, Judge José A. Cabranes, Judge Richard Posner, Cass Sunstein, and Todd Zywicki. \n\nBeyond the \"Law Review\"s traditional legal scholarship, it has published contributions from noted philosopher F. S. C. Northrop, the Right Reverend James A. Pike, Erle Stanley Gardner, and J. Edgar Hoover.\n\nIn addition to individual contributions, the \"Law Review\" has a history of special symposium issues on a broad range of topics. Recent symposium issues have included: Throwing Away the Key: Social and Legal Responses to Child Molesters (Summer 1997); Free Speech and Economic Power (Summer 1998); Empirical Legal Realism (Summer 2003); Constitutional Law and the Internet (Summer 2004); and the Centennial Symposium Issue (Fall 2005).\n"}
{"id": "20040529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20040529", "title": "Philip Hamburger", "text": "Philip Hamburger\n\nPhilip Hamburger is an American legal scholar. Hamburger holds a Juris Doctor from Yale Law School (1982) and a Bachelor of Arts from Princeton University (1979).\n\nHamburger is the Maurice and Hilda Friedman Professor of Law at the Columbia University School of Law. He is a legal historian and a scholar of constitutional law. Before moving to Columbia, Hamburger was John P. Wilson Professor at the University of Chicago Law School, where he was also Director of the Bigelow Program and the Legal History Program. He was previously Oswald Symyster Colclough Research Professor at George Washington University Law School and, before that, he taught at the University of Connecticut Law School. He has been a visiting professor at the University of Virginia Law School and was the Jack N. Pritzker Distinguished Visiting Professor of Law at Northwestern Law School. Early in his career, he was an associate at the law firm of Schnader, Harrison, Segal & Lewis LLP in Philadelphia.\n\nHamburger is a leading scholar of the First Amendment who \"made a valuable contribution to our knowledge of Jefferson's thinking and actions with respect to matters of church and state\". He is known for arguing that \"the First Amendment, originally thought to limit the government, has been increasingly interpreted by the Court to mean limiting religion and confining it to the private sphere.\"\n\nFruchtman, reviewing \"Law and Judicial Duty\" (2008), says it, \"is by any definition ground-breaking. It is a creative, magisterial contribution to our understanding of judicial review and an independent judiciary.\"\n\nJustice Hugo Black, who served on the Supreme Court 1937 to 1971, came under attack from Hamburger who argues that Black's views on the need for separation of Church and State were deeply tainted by prominent roles in the Ku Klux Klan, a vehemently anti-Catholic organization. Hamburger relies on Black's biographers who say he was a KKK member and actively campaigned for Senate in 1926 at nearly all of Alabama's 148 KKK Klaverns, where he attacked the Catholic Church. Biographer Newman quotes his campaign manager as saying Black \"could make the best anti-Catholic speech you ever heard.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "20730584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20730584", "title": "Picard v. Barry Pontiac-Buick, Inc.", "text": "Picard v. Barry Pontiac-Buick, Inc.\n\nPicard v. Barry Pontiac-Buick, Inc., 654 A.2d 690 (R.I. 1995) is a Rhode Island Supreme Court case often cited in tort law text books to explain the legal concept of battery.\n\nPicard was unhappy about her mechanic's brake inspection and contacted a local television news \"troubleshooter\" reporter. When she returned for a reinspection, she took a picture of the mechanic inspecting the brakes on her car. The mechanic turned around, approached her, pointed his finger at her, and questioned her taking a picture of him. He intentionally touched her camera with his finger. Picard claimed that when she spun around her back was injured. \n\nThe trial court awarded Picard $60,366 in compensatory damages and an additional $6,350 in punitive damages. The Supreme Court held that the mechanic committed battery, because the mechanic caused an offensive or unconsensual touching upon the body of Picard, regardless of the mechanic's intent to injure. Items attached to or identified with the plaintiff's body, such as the camera, also count. The court also found that the mechanic committed assault. The court vacated the award and remanded for a new trial on damages.\n"}
{"id": "55177547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55177547", "title": "Pipher v. Parsell", "text": "Pipher v. Parsell\n\nPipher v. Parsell is a case that was decided before the Supreme Court of Delaware. It shows that a minor can be held to an adult standard of care when engaging in inherently dangerous activities such as driving.\n\nThree 16-year-olds were driving in a truck, all seated in the front seat: One boy (Parsell) driving and two girls, one in the middle seat and one next to the passenger side door. A passenger, the girl next to the door (Beisel), grabbed the steering wheel as if intending to make a car crash, at which all the occupants of laughed. A few minutes later the same girl grabbed the steering wheel again, this time actually causing an accident. The girl in the middle (Pipher), suffered damages and sued the driver.\n\n\"As they were traveling at 55 mph, Beisel unexpectedly \"grabbed the steering wheel causing the truck to veer off onto the shoulder of the road.\" Parsell testified that Beisel's conduct caused him both shock and surprise. Although Beisel's conduct prompted him to be on his guard, Parsell further testified that he did not expect Beisel to grab the wheel again. Nevertheless, his recognition of how serious Beisel's conduct was, shows he was aware that he now had someone in his car who had engaged in dangerous behavior.\"\n\nParsell testified that he did nothing in response to Beisel's initial action. Approximately thirty seconds later, Beisel again yanked the steering wheel, causing Parsell's truck to leave the roadway, slide down an embankment and strike a tree. Pipher was injured as a result of the collision.\"\n\nIn an opinion written by Justice Holland, the court held that the plaintiff's evidence should have been submitted to the jury because it was possible that the accident was foreseeable.\n\n\"In general, where the actions of a passenger that cause an accident are not foreseeable, there is no negligence attributable to the driver. But, when actions of a passenger that interfere with the driver's safe operation of the motor vehicle are foreseeable, the failure to prevent such conduct may be a breach of the driver's duty to either other passengers or to the public. Under the circumstances of this case, a reasonable jury could find that Parsell breached his duty to protect Pipher from Beisel by preventing Beisel from grabbing the steering wheel a second time.\"\n\nThe case was reversed and remanded.\n"}
{"id": "2623544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2623544", "title": "Portland Seven", "text": "Portland Seven\n\nThe Portland Seven was a group of American Muslims from the Portland, Oregon area arrested in October 2002 as part of an FBI operation attempting to close down a terrorist cell. The seven were attempting to join al Qaeda forces in their fight against the United States military and coalition forces in Afghanistan, or aiding in that attempt.\n\nOriginally referred to as \"The Portland Six\", Patrice Lumumba Ford, Jeffrey Leon Battle, October Martinique Lewis (Battle's ex-wife), Muhammad Ibrahim Bilal, Ahmed Ibrahim Bilal, and Habis Abdulla al Saoub made up the original six members arrested in October 2002. In April 2003, Maher \"Mike\" Hawash was arrested, and the name became \"The Portland Seven\".\n\nThe members of the Portland Seven \"were all named in the 15-count superseding indictment that included charges of conspiracy to levy war against the United States, conspiracy to provide material support and resources to al Qaeda, conspiracy to contribute services to al Qaeda and the Taliban, conspiracy to possess and discharge firearms in furtherance of crimes of violence, possessing firearms in furtherance of crimes of violence and money laundering.\" \n\nOn September 29, 2001, Battle, Ford and al Saoub were discovered while engaged in shooting practice in a gravel pit in Skamania County, Washington, near Washougal. Also present was Ali Khalid Steitiye, who did not become an indicted member of the Portland Seven on terrorism charges but was separately charged with other crimes.\n\nThe group was discovered by Deputy Sheriff Mark Mercer, who was acting on a tip from a neighbor who had heard gunfire in the pit. Deputy Mercer let the men go after taking their names and reported the incident to the FBI. Battle was taped in a secretly-recorded conversation indicating that they had considered killing Deputy Mercer when confronted: \"We was up there blowin it up... We was lightin' it up... [W]e looked at it as worship because what our intentions were, to learn to shoot for. And a cop came up and he was like hey... you don't understand how close he was gonna get popped... yeah, we was gonna pop him.\" Battle later indicated they had opted not to kill the officer because he seemed \"cool.\" Battle, Ford, and al Saoub went on to become the core of the \"Portland Seven.\"\n\nAccording to the indictment, on October 17, 2001, Battle and al Saoub flew out of Portland International Airport en route to Afghanistan. On October 20, 2001, Ford and the two Bilals also took the same route out of the United States. Between October 2001 and January 2002, Lewis wired a series of money orders to Battle in China and Bangladesh, and in November 2001 and January 2002, Ford wired money to al Saoub in China. Ford returned to the US on or about November 19, 2001. M. Bilal returned to the U.S on or about December 24, 2001. In January 2002,Battle was administratively discharged from the military. Battle also returned to the US on or about February 5, 2002.\n\nThe six male members of the group traveled to China in early 2002, with the intent of entering Afghanistan to aid the Taliban. Lacking visas and other documentation, they were turned back, and all but al Saoub then returned again to the United States.\n\nOn Thursday, October 3, 2002, a federal grand jury in United States District Court for the District of Oregon, at Portland, Oregon, indicted Battle, Ford, the two Bilals, al Saoub and Lewis. On October 4, 2002, and the FBI in Portland, Oregon, announced the arrest of four of those original six on charges of aiding and, in some cases, trying to join al-Qaeda fighters. Battle, Ford, and Lewis were all arrested that morning in Portland. Muhammad Bilal was arrested at the same time by the FBI in Dearborn, Michigan. The remaining two, Ahmed Bilal and al Saoub, were both considered fugitives. Steitiye was also named by the FBI as an unindicted co-conspirator.\n\nAli Khalid Steitiye was convicted in 2002 on firearms, fraud,and immigration charges and testified against the others in 2004, as part of a plea agreement in a weapons-possession charge.\n\nHabis al Saoub joined an al Qaeda cell and was killed by Pakistani forces in October 2003. Ford and Battle are each serving 19-year sentences. Lewis was sentenced to three years in a work camp. Muhammad Bilal received an eight-year sentence, and Ahmed Bilal got ten years. Hawash was sentenced to seven years and left prison in early 2009.\n\nA 2011 NPR report claimed that some of the people associated with the group were imprisoned in a highly-restrictive Communication Management Unit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13677522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13677522", "title": "Public eProcurement", "text": "Public eProcurement\n\nThe term Public eProcurement (\"electronic procurement\" in the public sector) refers, in Singapore, Ukraine, Europe and Canada, to the use of electronic means in conducting a public procurement procedure for the purchase of goods, works or services.\n\neProcurement compared to normal procurement allows greater transparency, better competition and easier communication for all parties.\n\nThe term of the Electronic Public Procurement can be defined as the usage of e-Government platform over the electronic resources (Internet and Web-based applications) to conduct transactions for purchasing the products and services from suppliers to authority's buyers.\n\nThe following sub-phases of the electronic public procurement process could be identified:\n\neInvoicing allows an invoice to be sent and received by the customer electronically.\neInvoicing is currently defined in multiple ways. A simple search finds 3 simple variations: “an invoice issued, received and processed electronically”, “an invoice sent by electronic means to the recipient”, and “an invoice received by the customer electronically”. Driving a single strategy requires a single definition; a common language. The best definition should be customer-centric. \nThe same common language divides the tiers of eInvoicing based on cash management impacts.\n\nTo successfully conduct electronic procurement across borders, eProcurement systems rely on some “key-enablers”\n\nBeginning in 2009 Portugal implemented mandatory use of electronic systems for public procurement. The government has continued to utilize more pilot programs to continue the implementation of the program in Portugal and to establish the e-procurement process until the contract is awarded in a public procurement deal.\n\nIn Ukraine the government established the Prozorro system in 2014. It was a major innovation for the government as they switched to a more transparent e-procurement system.\n\n"}
{"id": "8649799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8649799", "title": "R v Beaulac", "text": "R v Beaulac\n\nR v Beaulac [1999] 1 S.C.R. 768 is a decision by the Supreme Court of Canada on language rights. Notably, the majority adopted a liberal and purposive interpretation of language rights in the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, overturning conservative case law such as \"Société des Acadiens v. Association of Parents\" (1986). As the majority wrote, \"To the extent that \"Société des Acadiens du Nouveau-Brunswick\"... stands for a restrictive interpretation of language rights, it is to be rejected.\"\n\nJean Victor Beaulac was accused of murder and was brought before the British Columbia Supreme Court and convicted. Beaulac claimed rights under section 530 of the Criminal Code, which allows for the accused to be heard in court in his or her language, if it is one of the official languages of Canada, English or French. The Supreme Court noted in its 1999 decision that this was the first time it had ever considered this Criminal Code right. At a lower level, Beaulac had been denied this right to be heard in French, since one judge found Beaulac's skills in English were adequate though not perfect.\n\nThe majority of the Court first considered the Constitution of Canada, noting that the Constitution Act, 1867, which set out the rules for Canadian federalism, did not give any level of government exclusive jurisdiction to create language rights, and both levels probably could. There were language rights in the Constitution as well, and these could provide context for language rights cases. These include section 133 of the Constitution Act, 1867, and it was noted that in \"Jones v. Attorney General of New Brunswick\" (1975) the Supreme Court found that these can be expanded upon. The majority noted that in 1986 the Supreme Court found that language rights should be handled conservatively, in \"MacDonald v. City of Montreal\", \"Société des Acadiens\" and \"Bilodeau v. Attorney General of Manitoba\". However, the majority claimed conservative interpretation of language rights has since given way to a more liberal approach, in \"Ford v. Quebec (Attorney General)\" (1988), which concerned language and freedom of expression under section 2 of the Canadian Charter. The Court took this as important, since this \"re-affirm[s] the importance of language rights as supporting official language communities and their culture.\" Other noted victories for language rights included \"Mahe v. Alberta\" (1990) on minority language education rights in section 23 of the Canadian Charter and \"Reference re Manitoba Language Rights\" (1992) on the Manitoba Act. While in \"Société des Acadiens\" the Court had played down language rights because they were deemed to be the result of political deals, in this case the Court decided that it does not follow that that means the courts cannot interpret the rights in the same way it interprets other rights. Hence, the Court saw language rights as individual rights promoting dignity, and the Criminal Code right represented a growth in language rights encouraged by section 16 of the Canadian Charter.\n\nTurning to section 530 of the Criminal Code, the Court called it an \"absolute right.\" Since past interpretation indicated such rights are not just due process, it should be respected beyond what the letter of the law actually demands. The Court also found that the accused's language was a personal matter and related to one's identity, and therefore courts should respect the accused's \"subjective\" feelings towards a language. In this case, the Court ordered a new trial.\n\nChief Justice Antonio Lamer and Ian Binnie wrote a brief concurrence on section 530 of the Criminal Code. However, they protested the reconsideration of \"Société des Acadiens\" and section 16 of the Charter since the \"Beaulac\" case did not involve constitutional law. \"It is a well-established rule of prudence that courts ought not to pronounce on constitutional issues unless they are squarely raised for decision,\" they wrote.\n"}
{"id": "3687766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3687766", "title": "Ratione soli", "text": "Ratione soli\n\nRatione soli or rationae soli is a Latin phrase meaning \"according to the soil\" or \"by reason of the ownership of the soil.\" In property law, it is a justification for assigning property rights to landowners over resources found on their own land. Traditionally, the doctrine of \"ratione soli\" provides landowners \"constructive possession of natural resources on, over, and under the surface: cujus est solum, ejus est usque ad coelum ad infernos.\" \n\nIn ancient Roman law, landowners could only take legal possession of animals by capturing and maintaining physical control over them. English common law originally restricted the right to hunt animals to those who had permission from the Crown, but later laws allowed landowners to hunt animals that entered upon their land through the principle of \"ratione soli\". Over time, this developed into a system of laws where the right to hunt was restricted to nobles and the landowning elite.\n\nThe doctrine of \"ratione soli\" has survived in many jurisdictions to this day. Likewise, many jurisdictions still recognize the correlative \"ad coelum\" doctrine. India, for example, \"views groundwater as chattel connected to the land, and allows the landowner ownership rights based on the \"ad coleum\" principle.\" However, some commentators note that some American jurisdictions have rejected the application of \"ratione soli\" to the ownership of wild animals because \"it smacks of the hunting rights of the English landowning families who used it to make meatless meals for and poachers out of England's yeoman.\" For example, the Colorado Supreme Court stated in 1981 that \"a landowner's property \"ration soli\" is subject to 'lawful regulation.'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1619088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619088", "title": "Stannary", "text": "Stannary\n\nThe word stannary is historically applied to:\n\nThe principal role of a stannary town was the collection of tin coinage, the proceeds of which were passed to the Duchy of Cornwall or the Crown. With the abolition of tin coinage in 1838 (following extensive petitioning by the Cornish tin industry for simplification of the taxation rules), the principal purpose for coinage town status ceased. However coinage towns still retained certain historic rights to appoint stannators to Cornwall's Stannary Parliament.\n\nThe English word ‘stannary’ is derived from the Middle English \"stannarie\", through Medieval Latin \"stannaria\" (‘tin mine’), ultimately from Late Latin \"stannum\" (‘tin’) (cf. the symbol for the chemical element Sn). The native Cornish word is \"sten\" and tin-workings \"stenegi\".\n\nDevon stannaries are usually referred to by the names of stannary towns. These towns were the locations where refined tin (or white tin) was assessed, coined, and sold. They were also the location for some of the institutions associated with the operation of the stannary.\n\nKing Edward I's 1305 Stannary Charter established Tavistock, Ashburton and Chagford as Devon's stannary towns, with a monopoly on all tin mining in Devon, a right to representation in the Stannary Parliament and a right to the jurisdiction of the Stannary Courts. Plympton became the fourth Devon stannary town in 1328 after a powerful lobby persuaded the Sheriff of Devon that it was nearer the sea and therefore had better access for merchants.\n\nThe Devon stannary towns are all on the fringes of Dartmoor, which is the granite upland which bore the tin. No definition of the boundaries of the Devon stannaries is known, if indeed one ever existed.\n\nThe four Cornish stannaries were (from west to east):\n\n\nThe geographical jurisdiction of each Cornish stannary was more clearly demarcated that of the others than was the case in Devon, as each represented a separate tin-bearing area, but the boundaries were not precisely laid down. The relative productivity of the stannaries varied greatly and was in no way related to their size.\n\nThe towns at which coinage was carried out in Cornwall varied over time. The Cornish coinage towns included at various times: Penzance, Truro, Helston, St Austell, Bodmin (probably), Liskeard and Lostwithiel. Penryn twice attempted to acquire coinage town status, supported by Falmouth, but failed on both occasions due to strong opposition from the established coinage towns.\n\nSurvival of stannary records has been rather patchy. The Cornwall Record Office has records from the Vicewarden's Court of the Stannaries of Devon and Cornwall, mostly from the mid nineteenth century onwards, which is rather late in the overall history of the stannary organisations. Earlier survivals in the CRO include the Tin Abstract Books from the Truro Tin office for 1703–10 and 1833–35. These books record the quantities of tin coined in the various coinage towns of Devon and Cornwall, the purchase of tin by the crown and the shipment of this tin by sea to London.\n\nMany stannary-related papers including registration of tin bounds, records of tin production and papers relating to disputes are to be found in the records of families with tin mining interests, although these are frequently intermingled with records on other matters so location of specific information is difficult.\n\nThe National Archives hold most of the records of central government, which includes records on stannary matters including manorial rolls for part of the reign of Charles 1. The House of Lords Record Office also contains relevant material, primarily relating to the special position of the stannary organisations (and tinners) with respect to the law.\n\n"}
{"id": "37579123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37579123", "title": "Tenancy deposit schemes (Scotland)", "text": "Tenancy deposit schemes (Scotland)\n\nThere are 3 tenancy deposit schemes in Scotland: the Letting Protection Service Scotland, Safedeposits Scotland and My|deposits Scotland.\n\nThe Tenancy Deposit Schemes (Scotland) Regulations 2011 came into force on 7 March 2011. Every landlord or letting agent that receives a deposit in Scotland must register with their local authority and join a tenancy deposit scheme.\n\nScots law gives tenants extra protection against losing their deposits. It means landlords and letting agents cannot keep deposits, instead they have to transfer them to a government approved third party.\n\nThe regulation has come into force to prevent \"unscrupulous\" landlords withholding part or all of a deposit when the tenant leaves their accommodation. The Scottish Housing Minister, Keith Brown, estimated that up to 11,000 tenants each year have had their deposit wrongly retained by their landlord or letting agent. \nThe tenancy deposit schemes approved by the government means that any deposit dispute between tenant and landlord can be referred to an independent dispute resolution service.\n\nConcerns that some private landlords unfairly withhold tenants’ deposits led to provisions in the Housing (Scotland) Act 2006, for Scottish Ministers to bring forward regulations for the approval of tenancy deposit schemes in Scotland.\nThe Regulations set out the conditions that all schemes must meet before they can be approved by the Scottish Ministers.\nSchemes\nThe three independent third party schemes approved by Scottish Ministers operating in Scotland are:\n\nTable of Tenancy Deposit Deadlines for Scottish Landlords: \n\nA tenant can take a landlord to court if they don’t protect their deposit with a scheme or provide the required information within the specified timescales. If the court is satisfied that the landlord has not complied, a sheriff can order the landlord to pay up to three times the deposit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19789633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19789633", "title": "Trick tank", "text": "Trick tank\n\nA trick tank is a watering device for livestock or wildlife. It collects precipitation, holds the water in a covered tank to minimize evaporation and maintain adequate water quality, and dispenses water on demand into a basin from which animals can drink. Dispensing may be regulated by a mechanical float device similar to a ballcock in the tank of a flush toilet.\n\nTrick tanks are manufactured in several styles, including inverted umbrella and apron. They are heavy and often are used in remote wilderness locations, to which they may require delivery via helicopter.\n\nTo provide water to wild animals, not livestock, fencing may be built to surround a trick tank. Fences serve to exclude cattle and sheep. Trick tanks are widely used in the southwest United States, where periodic droughts may cause population crashes in game animals unless water supplies are provided.\n\n"}
{"id": "622494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=622494", "title": "Unfair business practices", "text": "Unfair business practices\n\nUnfair business practices encompass fraud, misrepresentation, and oppressive or unconscionable acts or practices by business, often against consumers and are prohibited by law in many countries. For instance, in the European Union, each member state must regulate unfair business practices in accordance with the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, subject to transitional periods. Unfair business practices may arise in many areas, including:\n\nIn addition to providing for the award of compensatory damages, laws may also provide for the award of punitive damages as well as the payment of the plaintiff's legal fees.\n\nAt common law, individuals were not entitled to attorneys fees or punitive damages for wrongful acts committed by businesses in most states. Most often, laws prohibiting unfair business practices require consumers to send a demand letter to the business prior to commencing with a lawsuit. If the business fails to make a reasonable offer of settlement within a specified period of time, and is subsequently found liable in court, it may be liable for punitive damages and the injured parties reasonable attorney's fees under many statutes. In some instances, the statutes provide for prevailing plaintiffs to recover double or triple the actual damages against non-settling defendants. \n\nWhen statutes prohibiting unfair and deceptive business practices provide for the award of punitive damages and attorneys fees to injured parties, they provide a powerful incentive for businesses to resolve the claim through the settlement process rather than risk a more costly judgment in court.\n\n"}
{"id": "408699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408699", "title": "Voir dire", "text": "Voir dire\n\nVoir dire () is a legal phrase for a variety of procedures connected with jury trials. It originally referred to an oath taken by jurors to tell the truth (), i.e., to say what is true, what is objectively accurate or subjectively honest, or both. According to the \"Merriam-Webster Dictionary\", it comes from the Anglo-Norman language.\n\nThe word \"voir\" (or \"voire\"), in this combination, comes from Old French and derives from Latin , \"that which is true\". It is related to the modern French word , \"indeed\", but not to the more common word \"voir\", \"to see\", which derives from Latin . William Blackstone referred to it as , which was translated by John Winter Jones as \"To speak the truth\". However, the expression is now often interpreted by false etymology to mean \"to see [them] say\". The term is used (as ) in modern Canadian legal French.\n\nIn earlier centuries, a challenge to a particular juror would be tried by other members of the jury panel, and the challenged juror would take an oath of \"voir dire\", meaning to tell the truth. This procedure fell into disuse when the function of trying challenges to jurors was transferred to the judge.\n\nIn the United Kingdom (except Scotland), Cyprus, Hong Kong, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Canada, it refers to a \"trial within a trial\". It is a hearing to determine the admissibility of evidence, or the competency of a witness or juror. As the subject matter of the \"voir dire\" often relates to evidence, competence or other matters that may lead to bias on behalf of the jury, the jury may be removed from the court for the \"voir dire\".\n\nThe term has thus been broadened in Australian jurisdictions to include any hearing during a trial where the jury is removed. The High Court of Australia has noted that the \"voir dire\" is an appropriate forum for the trial judge to reprimand counsel or for counsel to make submissions as to the running of the court to the trial judge.\n\nUnder Scots law, jury selection is random, and there are a few well-defined exclusions in criminal trials.\n\nIn Canada, the case of \"Erven v. The Queen\" holds that testimony on a \"voir dire\" cannot influence the trial itself. This remains true even if the judge ruled against the accused in the \"voir dire\". The judge is assumed to ignore what he or she heard during \"voir dire\". The jury is never present during a \"voir dire\".\n\nIn Australia, the rule about \"voir dire\" is in section 189 of the \"Evidence Act 1995\" (Cth): \"On a voir dire parties can call witnesses, cross-examine opponent's witnesses and make submissions- as they might in the trial proper.\"\n\nIn the United States, \"voir dire\" is the process by which prospective jurors are questioned about their backgrounds and potential biases before being chosen to sit on a jury. \"Voir Dire is the process by which attorneys select, or perhaps more appropriately reject, certain jurors to hear a case.\" It also refers to the process by which expert witnesses are questioned about their backgrounds and qualifications before being allowed to present their opinion testimony in court. As noted above, in the United States (especially in practice under the Federal Rules of Evidence), \"voir dire\" can also refer to examination of the background of a witness to assess their qualification or fitness to give testimony on a given subject. \"Voir dire\" is often taught to law students in trial advocacy courses.\n\nThe play \"Inherit the Wind\" has an example of the legal process in terms of jury selection where the attorney for the defense, Henry Drummond, struggles to arrange a reasonably unbiased jury in a small town where the public sentiment is blatantly favoring the prosecution. However, the play has Drummond forced to entirely use his limited number of peremptory challenges to weed-out prospective jurors, even when they are so obviously prejudiced in the prosecution's favor to the point of bellowing their opinions on the stand that most should be struck for cause.\n\nThe Academy Award-winning film \"My Cousin Vinny\" has a scene depicting the voir diring of the defense attorney's fiancée who is summoned to the stand as an expert in general knowledge of automobiles. The prosecution is highly skeptical of her qualifications since she states that she is an unemployed hairdresser, but also has extensive work experience as a mechanic in her family's automotive business. With that doubt in mind, the prosecution asks a highly technical automotive question about a specific automobile make, model, year, engine size, and carburetor type, and she refuses to answer what she considers an invalid question. At the request of the court for a clarification, she explains in exacting detail why the question is deceptive, which is because the prosecution asked about a vehicle that never existed per the specifications. She then goes on to explain when the vehicle described was actually first manufactured and provided the answer to the prosecutor’s question for that model year, being the closest match. Surprised at such a detailed and authoritative answer, the prosecutor concludes the \"voir dire\", saying she is acceptable as an expert witness.\n\nIn the television series \"Bull\", a Hollywood version of the process of \"voir dire\" plays a central role in nearly all episodes, with key elements of the psychological makeup of potential jurors meshed with the elements of the forthcoming trial being the factor for the decision whether to accept or \"strike\" (remove) a potential juror.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9143215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9143215", "title": "William Drummond, 4th Viscount Strathallan", "text": "William Drummond, 4th Viscount Strathallan\n\nWilliam Drummond, 4th Viscount Strathallan (1690 – 16 April 1746) was a Scottish Jacobite army officer and fourth son of Sir John Drummond of Machany and Margaret, daughter of Sir William Stewart of Innernytie.\n\nDrummond was born in 1690, a year in which his father was outlawed for adhering to the House of Stuart. On 26 May 1711 Drummond succeeded as fourth Viscount of Strathallan on the death of his cousin, William. In 1712, Strathallan married Margaret Murray (died 28 May 1773), daughter of William Murray, 2nd Lord Nairne and his wife, Margaret Nairne.\n\nStrathallan was amongst the first to join the Jacobite rising of 1715, attending John Erskine, 22nd Earl of Mar's hunting party. Serving under Brigadier William Mackintosh of Borlum, he led a battalion from Perthshire in the campaign. He was taken prisoner at Sheriffmuir and was moved to Stirling and under the terms of the Act of Grace of 1717, was neither injured nor prosecuted. Strathallan joined the army of Charles Edward Stuart on 3 September 1745, commanding the Perthshire Horse, with two troops under him led by Lieutenant-Colonel Lawrence Oliphant of Gask and Major John Haldane, he is also named as being a member of the Prince's Privy council. At the Battle of Prestonpans, he commanded the only cavalry unit in the Jacobite force, around thirty-six troopers and their servants. Strathallan was promoted to major-general and was appointed general officer commanding in Scotland, stationed in Perth, while his cavalry under the command of William Boyd, 4th Earl of Kilmarnock, joined Prince Charles in his march south. Strathallan remained in command in Scotland until superseded by Lord John Drummond.\n\nAt the Battle of Falkirk, the Perthshire Horse were at the back of the field, taking little part in the action. Several weeks later, at the Battle of Culloden, when the government ranks closed round the Jacobites and advanced on their undeployed second and third lines, Strathallan 'resolved to die in the field rather than by the hand of the executioner', his horse was killed beneath him, and according to tradition, he was run through by Colonel George Howard of the 3rd Foot. Whilst awaiting death on the battlefield, it is said he received a last sacrament of oatmeal or oatcake and whisky or water, from John Maitland of Careston, the chaplain to the Forfarshire Regiment.\n\nLady Strathallan, being from a Jacobite family, was held prisoner in Edinburgh Castle from 11 February—22 November 1746 while proceedings for treason were under consideration. Strathallan's younger brother Andrew Drummond, founder of the Drummonds Bank in Charing Cross was to see his business interrupted during the period of the last of the Jacobite rebellions.\n\nThere were seven sons and three daughters from the marriage of William Drummond and Margaret Murray (dau. of Lord Nairne). The eldest, James (1715–1766) became \"de jure\" 5th Viscount. The third son was Robert Drummond who became a director in his uncle's bank, Drummonds Bank and following the purchase of his Hampshire estate became known as Robert Drummond of Cadland.\n\n"}
{"id": "50108911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50108911", "title": "World Index of Moral Freedom", "text": "World Index of Moral Freedom\n\nThe World Index of Moral Freedom is an international index ranking one hundred and sixty countries on their performance on five categories of indicators: religious freedom (taking into account both the freedom to practice any religion or none, and the situation of religious control on the state); bioethical freedom (including the legal status of abortion, euthanasia and other practices pertaining to bioethics, like surrogacy or stem cell research); drugs freedom (including the legal status of cannabis and the country's general policy on hard drugs); sexual freedom (including the legal status of pornography and sex services among consenting adults, and the country's age of sexual consent), and family and gender freedom (including women's freedom of movement, the legal status of cohabitation of unmarried couples, same sex marriage and the situation of transgender people). The index is sponsored and published by the Foundation for the Advancement of Liberty, a libertarian think tank based in Madrid, Spain. The WIMF's first edition was published on April 2, 2016, co-authored by Foundation researchers Andreas Kohl and Juan Pina. A second edition was published by the same foundation in July, 2018, this time authored by Juan Pina and Emma Watson.\n\nThe World Index of Moral Freedom aims at completing the views presented by other international freedom indices measuring general freedom or aspects thereof (press freedom, economic freedom, etcetera). To do so, the Index aims at responding a simple question: how free from state-imposed moral constraints are human beings depending on their countries of residence? The research conducted tries to determine the degree of individual freedom to take decisions pertaining to the great moral debates of our time. The first edition of the WIMF includes a short note on the comparison between its country ranking and those of the other freedom indices.\n\nEach category of indicators is worth twenty points (20% of the total score) and aims at responding the following questions:\n\nEach category is made up of various indicators (normally one or two leading indicators adjusted by one or two lesser wheighted ones), the weight of which is set in view of their inferred relevance towards the category's overall score. Countries have been classified towards each category according to the information available in the sources reviewed. All category results and the general index itself are presented in a 0-100 point scale. Countries are classified according to the following intervals:\n\nOnly one country, the Netherlands, is classified as having the \"highest\" level of moral freedom by scoring slightly over the 90 points required for that label. Just four countries make it into the upper twenty points, and only ten pass the 75 point threshold. Out of the 160 countries considered, only 64 \"pass the exam\" and score 50 points or more. And around 30% of all countries fall in the \"low\", \"very low\" or \"lowest\" moral freedom areas of the index. Technology and the cultural globalization that it produces are deemed by the authors to be the most powerful driving forces towards acceptance of individual moral freedom.\n\nWith a three-point (three per cent) advantage over their closest competitor and eight points over the third, the Netherlands top the 2016 country ranking. The Dutch score is twenty-one points higher than the average of all countries enjoying \"high\" or \"very high\" moral freedom. For many decades, whenever moral freedom was discussed, the Netherlands had the least interventionist policies. The first country to fight human trafficking by legalising sex services performed by consenting adults, or to normalize the use of cannabis, or to acknowledge same sex marriage already in 2001, performs remarkably high in most indicators considered towards the index.\n\nA trend may be inferred towards international unification of the legal and political approach to moral issues. And that trend favours the Western world's predominant choice for low moral interference by the state. This is particularly noticeable when looking at the index performance of many Southern European and Latin American countries, which seem to reveal a fast cultural evolution from traditional, conservative values into a laissez-faire approach to morality. Four of the top ten countries are Latin American or Iberian, while six other Latin countries in Southern Europe and the Americas make it to the \"high moral freedom\" region of the index. The particular performance of countries like Portugal or Uruguay is much higher than their recent history would indicate. These and other Latin countries seem to have discarded their traditional background of religiously influenced governance.\n\nThe fifteen lowest scoring countries at the World Index of Moral Freedom are Islamic and located in the Persian Gulf, North-Eastern Africa and the Arabian Peninsula. This is also true for the region's economically free enclaves in the area. Saudi Arabia comes last (160th) in the ranking and doesn't even score ten points out of the one hundred potentially available. Only four predominantly Islamic countries obtain more than fifty points: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Turkey and Kazakhstan. A few non Islamic countries also show low levels of moral freedom which the authors consider likely to be due to a strong political leverage held by another religion. These include Belarus (Orthodox), Israel (Jewish), Nepal (Hinduist), the Philippines (Catholic), Thailand (Buddhist), Tonga (Methodist), or Tuvalu (Calvinist).\n\nIn Russia, moral conservatism, derived from either the Orthodox faith or traditional culture, seems to have replaced marxism as the basis for an ongoing, though softer, social engineering by the state. Russia's score is just in the middle of the classification, a position shared by some of her cultural and political allies, like Serbia or Moldova, while politically unfree Belarus falls further below. In all of these countries, the freedom of LGBT individuals is a matter of particular concern.\n\nThe remaining communist regimes coerce their citizens into abiding by a moral code based on allegedly scientific views. Freedom of conscience and the practice of any religion are repressed. In the case of the People's Republic of China, decades of limited economic liberalization have not resulted in an equally noticeable moral openness. Two other communist regimes, North Korea and Vietnam, fall further down into the low moral freedom area, while moral freedom is deemed insufficient in Laos and just slightly over the fifty point threshold in socialist Venezuela or in outright communist Cuba.\n\nFor different reasons, often including abnormally low scores in a particular set of indicators, a few Western countries which perform reasonably high in other freedom indices rank rather low at the WIMF. Hungary and Norway fail to make it into the \"high moral freedom\" area, although just for under half a point. The British and Irish performance is particularly low within the moral freedom area. Iceland, Japan, Poland and Romania barely manage to pass the fifty point mark, while Singapore, Israel or South Korea fall in the \"insufficient moral freedom\" part of the index. While most countries topping the WIMF in its first edition belong to the developed world, some countries with a lesser degree of development have also made their way into the higher classification areas. Cambodia, scoring just over seventy points, obtains the fifteenth place in the global classification and is the first developing country in the index. It is also worth noting that the four European micro-states considered −the principalities of Andorra and Monaco and the republics of San Marino and Malta− score surprisingly low in comparison with their bigger neighbours. In spite of their high living standards and economic freedom, these countries fail to perform similarly when it comes to moral freedom. A similar situation is observed in Caribbean and South Pacific island micro-states, which score poorly in most categories and rank in the lower areas of the WIMF classification. This similarity between very small countries in different regions, in spite of the cultural influence of their neighbours and allies, may lead to the conclusion that moral freedom is affected, among other relevant factors, by country size.\n\nIn Portugal and, to a lesser extent, in Spain, many mainstream media and a number of other online media reported on the World Index of Moral Freedom 2016. All in all, just over ninety media carried the story. Generally speaking, reception was positive in Portugal and both positive and negative in Spain. The following are some of the main media carrying the story:\n\n\n\nWorld Index of Moral Freedom 2016 (WIMF) 2016, published by the Foundation for the Advancement of Liberty, Madrid, Spain, on April 2, 2016.\n\nWorld Index of Moral Freedom 2018 (WIMF) 2018, published by the Foundation for the Advancement of Liberty, Madrid, Spain, in July, 2018.\n"}
