{"id": "40381178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40381178", "title": "A. D. Lublinskaya", "text": "A. D. Lublinskaya\n\nAlexandra Dmitrievna Lublinskaya (May 27, 1902 – January 22, 1980) was a Russian scholar specialising in the history of seventeenth-century France, among other things.\n\nHer \"French Absolutism\", originally published in Russian in 1965, and translated into English by Brian Pearce, with a foreword by J. H. Elliott, was published by Cambridge University Press in 1968. It is a criticism of the general crisis of the 17th century thesis proposed by Hugh Trevor-Roper. The \"general crisis\" thesis generated controversy between supporters of this theory and those, such as the Marxist historian Eric Hobsbawm, who believed in the \"general crisis,\" but saw the problems of 17th-century Europe as more social and economic in origin than Trevor-Roper would allow. A third faction comprised those who simply denied there was any \"general crisis,\" including Lublinskaya, Dutch historian Ivo Schöffer and the Danish historian Niels Steengsgaard.\n\nHer professional publications number over 200, on a great variety of topics, but can be broken into three categories: works on paleography, critical publication of historical documents, and monographs and articles on the social and political history of medieval and early modern France (\"middle ages\" in Soviet chronology extended to about 1650).\n\nHer \"magnum opus\" was a series of books on the history of the administration of Richelieu. The first book was \"Frantsiia v nachale XVII veka\" (1610-1622 gg.) \"France at the beginning of the 17th century, 1610-1620\" published in 1959. This was followed by \"French Absolutism: the Crucial Phase, 1620-1629\" in 1965. A third book was published just before her death covering the years 1630-42. Another major work was \"Frantsuzskie krest'iane v XVI-XVIII vv.\" (\"French peasants in the 16th-18th centuries\"), published in 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "18285414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18285414", "title": "Akakor", "text": "Akakor\n\nAkakor is the name of a mythological ancient underground city, located somewhere between Brazil, Bolivia and Peru.\n\nIt was described by German journalist Karl Brugger, based on interviews with a self-proclaimed Brazilian Indian chieftain Tatunca Nara in his book \"The Chronicle of Akakor\" (1976). Although Brugger was apparently convinced, the information in it has only one source (Tatunca Nara), who was later exposed by activist and adventurer Rüdiger Nehberg as being Günther Hauck, a German.\n\nElements of the story from \"The Chronicle of Akakor\" were used in the film\n\"Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull\", where they were conflated with El Dorado, although references are to \"Akator\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1240175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1240175", "title": "American Century", "text": "American Century\n\nThe American Century is a characterization of the period since the middle of the 20th century as being largely dominated by the United States in political, economic, and cultural terms. It is comparable to the description of the period 1815–1914 as Britain's Imperial Century. The United States' influence grew throughout the 20th century, but became especially dominant after the end of World War II, when only two superpowers remained, the United States and the Soviet Union. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, the United States remained the world's only superpower, and became the hegemon, or what some have termed a hyperpower.\n\nThe term was coined by \"Time\" publisher Henry Luce to describe what he thought the role of the United States would be and should be during the 20th century. Luce, the son of a missionary, in a February 17, 1941 \"Life\" magazine editorial urged the United States to forsake isolationism for a missionary's role, acting as the world's Good Samaritan and spreading democracy. He called upon the US to enter World War II to defend democratic values:\n\nThroughout the 17th century and the 18th century and the 19th century, this continent teemed with manifold projects and magnificent purposes. Above them all and weaving them all together into the most exciting flag of all the world and of all history was the triumphal purpose of freedom.\n<br>\nIt is in this spirit that all of us are called, each to his own measure of capacity, and each in the widest horizon of his vision, to create the first great American Century.\n\nDemocracy and other American ideals would \"do their mysterious work of lifting the life of mankind from the level of the beasts to what the Psalmist called a little lower than the angels\". Only under the American Century can the world \"come to life in any nobility of health and vigor\".\n\nAccording to David Harvey, Luce believed \"the power conferred was global and universal rather than territorially specific, so Luce preferred to talk of an American century rather than an empire\". In the same article he called upon United States \"to exert upon the world the full impact of our influence, for such purposes as we see fit and by such means as we see fit\".\n\nBeginning at the end of the 19th century, with the Spanish–American War in 1898 and the Boxer Rebellion, the United States began to play a more prominent role in the world beyond the North American continent. The government adopted protectionism after the Spanish–American War to develop its native industry and built up the navy, the \"Great White Fleet\". When Theodore Roosevelt became president in 1901, he accelerated a foreign policy shift away from isolationism and towards foreign involvement, a process which had begun under his predecessor William McKinley.\n\nFor instance, the United States fought the Philippine–American War against the First Philippine Republic to solidify its control over the newly acquired Philippines. In 1904, Roosevelt committed the United States to building the Panama Canal, creating the Panama Canal Zone. Interventionism found its formal articulation in the 1904 Roosevelt Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine, proclaiming a right for the United States to intervene anywhere in the Americas, a moment that underlined the emergent US regional hegemony.\n\nAfter the outbreak of World War I in 1914, the United States pursued a policy of non-intervention, avoiding conflict while trying to broker a peace. President Woodrow Wilson later argued that the war was so important that the US had to have a voice in the peace conference. The United States was never formally a member of the Allies but entered the war in 1917 as a self-styled \"Associated Power\". Initially the United States had a small army, but, after the passage of the Selective Service Act, it drafted 2.8 million men, and, by summer 1918, was sending 10,000 fresh soldiers to France every day. The war ended in 1919 with the Treaty of Versailles. The United States then adopted a policy of isolationism, having refused to endorse the 1919 Versailles Treaty or formally enter the League of Nations.\n\nDuring the interwar period, economic protectionism took hold in the United States, particularly as a result of the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act which is credited by economists with the prolonging and worldwide propagation of the Great Depression. From 1934, trade liberalization began to take place through the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act.\n\nWith the onset of World War II in 1939, Congress loosened the Neutrality Acts of 1930s but remained opposed to entering the European war. In 1940, the United States ranked 18th in terms of military power. The Neutrality Patrol had US destroyers fighting at sea, but no state of war had been declared by Congress. American public opinion remained isolationist. The 800,000-member America First Committee vehemently opposed any American intervention in the European conflict, even as the US sold military aid to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union through the Lend-Lease program.\n\nIn the 1941 State of the Union address, known as the Four Freedoms speech, President Franklin D. Roosevelt made a break with the tradition of non-interventionism. He outlined the US role in helping allies already engaged in warfare. By August, President Roosevelt and British Prime Minister Winston Churchill had drafted the Atlantic Charter to define goals for the post-war world. In December 1941, Japan attacked American and British holdings with near-simultaneous offensives against Southeast Asia and the Central Pacific including an attack on the US fleet at Pearl Harbor. These attacks led the United States and United Kingdom to declare war on Japan. Three days later, Germany and Italy declared war on the United States, which the United States reciprocated.\n\nIn an effort to maintain peace after World War II, the Allies formed the United Nations, which came into existence on October 24, 1945, and adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, as a common standard for all member states. The U.S. worked closely with the United Kingdom to establish the IMF, World Bank and NATO.\n\nPax Americana represents the relative peace in the Western world, resulting in part from the preponderance of power enjoyed by the United States of America starting around the middle of the 20th century. Although the term finds its primary utility in the late 20th century, it has been used in other times in the 20th century. Its modern connotations concern the peace established after the end of World War II in 1945.\n\nThe \"American Century\" existed through the Cold War and demonstrated the status of the United States as the foremost of the world's two superpowers. After the Cold War, the most common belief held that only the United States fulfilled the criteria to be considered a superpower. Its geographic area composed the fourth-largest state in the world, with an area of approximately 9.37 million km. The population of the US was 248.7 million in 1990, at that time the third-largest nation.\n\nIn the mid-to-late 20th century, the political status of the US was defined as a strongly capitalist federation and constitutional republic. It had a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council plus two allies with permanent seats, the United Kingdom and France. The US had strong ties with capitalist Western Europe, Latin America, British Commonwealth, and several East Asian countries (Korea, Taiwan, Japan). It allied itself with both right-wing dictatorships and capitalist democracies.\n\nThe American Century includes the political influence of the United States but also its economic influence. Many states around the world would, over the course of the 20th century, adopt the economic policies of the Washington Consensus, sometimes against the wishes of their populations. The economic force of the US was powerful at the end of the century due to it being by far the largest economy in the world. The US had large resources of minerals, energy resources, metals, and timber, a large and modernized farming industry and large industrial base. The United States dollar is the dominant world reserve currency under the Bretton Woods system. US systems were rooted in capitalist economic theory based on supply and demand, that is, production determined by customers' demands. America was allied with the G7 major economies. US economic policy prescriptions were the \"standard\" reform packages promoted for crisis-wracked developing countries by Washington, DC-based international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, as well as the US Treasury Department.\n\nThe military of the United States was a naval-based advanced military with by far the highest military expenditure in the world. The United States Navy was the world's largest navy, with the largest number of aircraft carriers, bases all over the world (particularly in an incomplete \"ring\" bordering the Warsaw Pact states to the west, south and east). The US had the largest nuclear arsenal in the world during the first half of the Cold War, one of the largest armies in the world and one of the two largest air forces in the world. Its powerful military allies in Western Europe (the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation states) had their own nuclear capabilities. The US also possessed a powerful global intelligence network in the Central Intelligence Agency.\n\nThe cultural impact of the US, often known as Americanization, is seen in the influence on other countries of US music, TV, films, art, and fashion, as well as the desire for freedom of speech and other guaranteed rights its residents enjoy. US pop stars such as Elvis Presley, Michael Jackson, and Madonna have become global celebrities.\n\nCritics have condemned Luce's \"jingoistic missionary zeal\". Others have noted the end of the 20th century and the American Century, most famously the late gonzo journalist Hunter S. Thompson who titled his autobiography \"Kingdom of Fear: Loathsome Secrets of a Star Crossed Child in the Last Days of the American Century\".\n\nWith the advent of the new millennium, critics from the University of Illinois stated that it was a matter of debate whether America was losing its superpower status, especially in relation to China's rise. Other analysts have made the case for the \"American Century\" fitting neatly between America's late entry into World War I in 1917 and the inauguration of its 45th President in 2017.\n\nOther scholars, such as George Friedman, stipulate that the 21st century will be the U.S. century: \"The twenty-first century will be the American century.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33701316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33701316", "title": "Artur Eisenbach", "text": "Artur Eisenbach\n\nArtur Eisenbach (born 7 April 1906 in Nowy Sącz, died 30 October 1992 in Tel Aviv) was a Polish-Jewish historian; an expert on the history of Jews in Poland, member of Polish Academy of Sciences and the head of the Jewish Historical Institute in Warsaw between 1966 and 1968.\n\nEisenbach studied history briefly at the Jewish Educational Seminary in Vilna and then at the Warsaw University under Marceli Handelsman. Afterwards, he worked at the Society for Jewish Health Care in Poland (Towarzystwo Ochrony Zdrowia Ludności Żydowskiej w Polsce, TOZ).\n\nHe married the sister of a fellow historian, and later ghetto chronicler, Emanuel Ringelblum. After the Nazi invasion of Poland on 1 September 1939 Artur, along with his wife and child, escaped to his wife's hometown in the east, the small town of Buczacz (now Buchach, Ukraine). However, as a consequence of the Nazi-Soviet pact known as the Molotov-Ribbentrop Treaty, on 17 September the Soviet Union also invaded Poland and Buczacz fell within the Soviet occupation zone. Along with 1,200,000 other Poles, Artur Eisenbach was deported deep within the Soviet Union. His wife and daughter stayed behind. In July 1941, after the Nazi Germany attacked the Soviet Union, Buczacz was taken over by the Germans. Eisenbach's wife and daughter subsequently were murdered by the Nazis.\n\nEisenbach returned to Poland from the Soviet Union in 1946 and settled in Warsaw. In the same year he became the chief archivist of the Jewish Historical Institute (JHI) in Warsaw. He was a member of the PPR\nPolska Partia Robotnicza), the communist party in Poland from 1942 to 1948, and after 1948 member of the reconstituted PZPR (Polska Zjednoczona Partia Robotnicza). In 1966, Eisenbach became the director of the JHI and joined the Polish Academy of Sciences. In 1968, he was persecuted by the communist authorities of the People's Republic of Poland during the anti-Zionist events in the aftermath of Israel's Six Day War 1968 Polish political crisis (\"the March events\") and forced to resign as director JHI. Unlike many other Poles of Jewish background who left Poland after these events, Artur Eisenbach chose to remain in the country and continued his studies. Subsequently, he also wrote a series of monographs on Polish Jewish history. He was a historical consultant on film Austeria by Kawalerowicz in 1982.\n\nEisenbach emigrated to Israel towards the end of his life, in 1987, where he worked at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Yad Vashem. Facing terminal illness, he committed suicide in 1992. \n\n1. Kto jest kim w Polsce 1984. Wyd. 1. Warszawa: Wydawnictwo Interpress, 1984, s. 155. .\n\n"}
{"id": "23018723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23018723", "title": "Ballymurphy massacre", "text": "Ballymurphy massacre\n\nThe Ballymurphy Massacre was a series of incidents between 9 and 11 August 1971 in which the 1st Battalion, Parachute Regiment of the British Army killed eleven civilians in Ballymurphy, Belfast, Northern Ireland, as part of Operation Demetrius. The shootings were later referred to as Belfast's Bloody Sunday, a reference to the killing of civilians by the same battalion in Derry a few months later.\n\nThe Northern Ireland Troubles had been ongoing for two years, and Belfast was particularly affected by political and sectarian violence. The British Army had been deployed in Northern Ireland in 1969, as events had got beyond the control of the Royal Ulster Constabulary.\n\nOn the morning of Monday 9 August 1971, the security forces launched Operation Demetrius. The plan was to arrest and intern anyone suspected of being a member of the Provisional Irish Republican Army. The unit selected for this operation was the Parachute Regiment. Members of the Parachute Regiment stated that, as they entered the Ballymurphy area, they were shot at by republicans and returned fire.\n\nMike Jackson, later to become head of the British Army, includes a disputed account of the shootings in his autobiography, and his then role as press officer for the British Army stationed in Belfast while the incidents happened. This account states that those killed in the shootings were Republican gunmen. This claim has been strongly denied by the Catholic families of those killed in the shootings, in interviews conducted during the documentary film The Ballymurphy Precedent.\n\nIn 2016, Sir Declan Morgan, the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland, recommended an inquest into the killings as one of a series of \"legacy inquests\" covering 56 cases related to the Troubles.\n\nThese inquests were delayed as funding was not approved by the Northern Ireland Executive. The former Stormont first minister Arlene Foster of the DUP deferred a bid for extra funding for inquests into historic killings in Northern Ireland, a decision condemned by the human rights group Amnesty International. Foster confirmed she had used her influence in the devolved power-sharing executive to hold back finance for a backlog of inquests connected to the conflict. The High Court said \"her decision to refuse to put a funding paper on the Executive basis was unlawful and procedurally flawed.\" In January 2018, the coroner's office announced that the inquest is due to begin in September 2018.\n\nSix civilians were killed on 9 August, these were:\n\nOne civilian was shot on 10 August, and another four were shot on 11 August, these were:\n\nIn February 2015, the conviction of Terry Laverty, younger brother of John, was quashed by the Criminal Cases Review Commission. He had been convicted of riotous behaviour and sentenced to six months on the eye-witness evidence of a private in the Parachute Regiment. The case was referred to court because the sole witness retracted his evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "15196263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15196263", "title": "Bartholomew MacCarthy", "text": "Bartholomew MacCarthy\n\nBartholomew MacCarthy (b. Conna, Ballynoe, County Cork, 12 Dec., 1843; d. Inniscarra, Co. Cork, 6 Mar., 1904) was a scholar and chronologist who wrote extensively on Early Irish literature. \n\nHe was educated at Mount Melleray Seminary, County Waterford, and at St Colman's College, Fermoy, Co. Cork, afterwards studying at Rome, where he was ordained in 1869. On his return to Ireland he was appointed professor of Classics at St. Colman's, where he remained about three years. He then went as curate to Mitchelstown (where he was at the time of a massacre in 1887), and afterwards to Macroom and Youghal. In 1895 he was appointed parish priest of Inniscarra, near Cork, where he died. A few months before his death, he had been chosen by the Government on the recommendation of the Council of the Royal Irish Academy to edit the \"Annals of Tighearnach\". He often spoke critically of his predecessors, for instance of John Colgan, the O'Clerys, Eugene O'Curry, etc., and of contemporary scholars. A letter of his criticising a favourable review of John Salmon's \"Ancient Irish Church as a Witness to Catholic Doctrine\" in the \"Irish Ecclesiastical Record\" (August, 1897, 166-170) led to a controversy between these two Catholic scholars, which was carried on in that periodical the following year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34108577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34108577", "title": "Car Norris", "text": "Car Norris\n\nHensleigh Carthew Marryat \"Car\" Norris (12 March 1893 – 3 September 1980) was a New Zealand lawyer, soldier, Anglican layman and historian.\n\nHe had a variety of interests and was awarded life membership by various organisations. Two of his books, \"Armed settlers\" (1956) and \"Settlers in depression\" (1964) are regarded as standard histories for Hamilton covering the period 1864 to 1894.\n\nHe was made a Queen's Service Order for Community Service (QSO) in the 1975 Birthday Honours for \"services to the community\".\n"}
{"id": "32169038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32169038", "title": "David E. Nye", "text": "David E. Nye\n\nDavid E. Nye is Professor of American History at the University of Southern Denmark. He is the winner of the 2005 Leonardo da Vinci Medal of the Society for the History of Technology.\n\nNye is the author of \nall published by the MIT Press, except *University of Massachusetts Press; **Columbia University Press; and †Odense University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "463856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463856", "title": "Dohuk Governorate", "text": "Dohuk Governorate\n\nDohuk Governorate (, , Muḥāfaẓat Dahūk) is a governorate in Iraqi Kurdistan. Its capital is the city of Dohuk. It includes Zakho, the city that meets Ibrahim Khalil border between Turkey and Iraqi Kurdistan. It borders the Al-Hasakah Governorate of Syria.Prior to 1976 it was part of Nineveh Governorate, which was called Mosul Governorate. Dohuk Governorate is mainly inhabited by Kurds and Assyrians, with a small number of Yazidis and Armenians. The estimated population in 2017 was 1,011,585.\n\n\nDohuk Governorate is divided into seven districts, four of which are officially part of Kurdistan Region, while three others are under \"de facto\" control of the Kurdistan Regional Government:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13181025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13181025", "title": "Erland Dryselius", "text": "Erland Dryselius\n\nErland (Benedikt, Brodderi) Dryselius (1641 – 24 April 1708) was a Swedish Lutheran minister, historian, and translator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30063552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30063552", "title": "European hand fans in the 18th century", "text": "European hand fans in the 18th century\n\nHand fans first arrived in Europe in the 15th century from Asia and became popular in the 16th century. Several fan styles were common and a plethora of materials were used to create them. Subject matter varied greatly, from Biblical scenes to landscapes. Hand fans serve as a cooling mechanism, social instrument, and fashion accessory.\n\nFans were used throughout history, and can be traced back as long as five thousand years ago. They developed in ancient Egypt, India, and China where they were used for ceremonies and practical purposes. In the 12th century, during the Crusades, the fan was brought to Europe. At first, Europeans adopted the rigid fan and feather fans. Queen Elizabeth I of England (1533–1603) owned dozens of these fans, as was shown in her portraits. Later in the 16th century, folding fans were introduced into Europe from Japan where they originated. \n\nOnce the fan was known to Europe, France became the center for fan design and production. At the end of the 17th century, Huguenot immigrants traveled to England, bringing the fan craft with them. French fans were so popular that they were smuggled into England during the 18th century. During this time the Worshipful Company of Fan Makers tried to grow the English fan trade, but their success was small in comparison to the French industry.\n\nThere were two main types of fans seen in Europe during the 18th century: the rigid (or fixed) fan and the folding fan.\n\nAs its name implies, the rigid fan is stiff. Possible fan shapes are a leaf, a rectangle, or an oval. The fan is attached to a base where it is held.\n\nThe folding fan was the most popular in Europe during the 18th century, a time known as the golden age of the folding fan. The principal folding fan styles are pleated, brisé, and cockade.\nThe pleated fan consists of a mount and a set of sticks. The outer sticks (the guards) are wider than the others and are often more decorated. At the base of the sticks is a pivot which connects the fan and allows it to spread and open. The base is either shaped or rounded off.\n\nThe brisé fan consists only of a set of sticks. These sticks are attached to a base with a pivot similar to that of a pleated fan. A cord or ribbon runs across the top of the fan, holding the sticks together. \n\nA cockade fan opens into a complete circle around the pivot. Their style can be either pleated or brisé. They were not very practical and considered too flamboyant, and thus they saw little popularity.\n\nFans in the 18th century were made from a wide variety of materials depending on their style and purpose. During the 18th century fans were a fashion accessory and thus were made from the fashionable materials of the time.\n\nSticks and handles could be made of gold, tortoise shell, ivory, mother-of-pearl, horn, or wood. They were often highly decorated. Most sticks and handles were not only made of the previously listed materials, but were inlaid with others. For example, a mother-of-pearl fan could be inlaid with gold. Other sticks were plain.\n\nPrevious to 1780, mounts were typically made of vellum or paper. Some, more valuable fans were decorated with materials used for the sticks such as mother-of-pearl. Other decorations included feathers, butterfly wings, silk, gold, and sequins. Although not as common, the 18th century also saw lace fans.\n\nEuropean fans were often decorated with historical, political, or social images. While some fans were meant to inform, others were meant to entertain. There was fan for every occasion; whether it be a wedding, a funeral, or a dance, there was always a fan made specifically for the event.\n\nSome artists designed fans which would prevent boredom during a dull event, or would start a conversation. These fans were often covered with riddles and puzzles. Another type of entertainment fan was the fortune-telling fan. These presented questions such as “Whether one is to get Riches; Whether one will be successful in Love; What sort of Husband shall I have; etc.”\n\nThe 18th century saw fans which assisted in remembering holidays or that served as maps. The fan, “Map of Warwickshire” is such a fan.\n\nFans commonly recorded current events. There were souvenir fans that depicted scenes such as Vesuvius erupting and the Coliseum. Others celebrated public events such as a military victory. The fan, “Coronation of George II” shows the banquet of George II and Queen Caroline in Westminster Hall on their coronation day, October 11, 1727.\n\nClassical myths and biblical scenes were frequent during the early 18th century. Fans for church depicted Bible subjects such as Jacob and Rachel or Ruth and Boaz. The fan, “Moses Striking the Rock” shows the Israelite encampment in the wilderness and Moses standing by the rock from which water flows.\n\nLater in the 18th century, rococo pastoral scenes became popular. Landscapes were common as well as images with love and courtship themes. Cupid was often a principal figure on such fans. The fan, “Pastoral Landscape” shows a river landscape with men and women walking by and sheep grazing.\n\nWhen originated, the fan’s purpose was to cool the face and keep away insects. Before the 18th century their most common use was to keep flies away from church altars. While driving insects away became less and less of a fan’s purpose, the fan continued to serve as a cooling mechanism.\n\nIn Europe, fans were not a necessity. They were mainly used as a fashion accessory, to complement the rest of the lady’s outfit. “Fans were as much an adjunct to a lady of fashion’s attire as were gloves or bags.” By the 18th century fans were used only by females. The fan was described as the “feminine accessory, par excellence.”\n\nSubject matter such as historical and political events made fans a means of spreading news or political propaganda. Other fans contained brand names and store fronts and thus acted as advertisements.\n\nDue to their large use and popularity, fans began to affect gestures and thus a fan “sign language” developed between 1711 and 1740. In a 1740 edition of the Gentleman's Magazine, there was an advertisement for “The New Fashioned Speaking FAN!” This “speaking fan” created a system whereby motions of the fan translated into letters of the alphabet. The alphabet, with the exception of J, was split into five sections. These sections corresponded to one of the following movements:\n\n\nIn order to signal a letter two movements were necessary. The first corresponded to one of the five alphabet groups, and the second told the letter’s position in the group. For example, to signal “D”, one would use movement 1 (first section of the alphabet), followed by movement 4 (fourth letter in that section of the alphabet). \n\nFans are often considered minor works of art. Many survived and are in the hands of owners or museums throughout the world.\n"}
{"id": "45151723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45151723", "title": "Frederic Slater", "text": "Frederic Slater\n\nFrederic Slater (c1880- 10 March 1947) was an Australian journalist, poet, researcher and \"authority on aboriginal folk lore\".\n\nIn the 1930s, Slater was founder and president of the short-lived Australian Archaeological and Education Research Society, also known as the Australian Archaeological Society. He married Katherine Elizabeth Plowman, who survived him and was executor of his will. They had one son, Ederic Charles James Sutherland Slater, born in January 1923.\n\nSlater studied Aboriginal place names and archaeological sites and provided information on Aboriginal languages including, for example, the meaning of Canberra and Queanbeyan. However, his best known contribution, which has been described as pseudoarchaeology, is the claim that Australian Aborigianes came from Egypt, based on carvings at Devil's Rock, Wollombi, in the Royal National Park, Brunswick Heads, and other locations. In an address at Sydney, to the Anthropological Society of New South Wales. he claimed the carvings were especially significant \"...totems, symbols and ideographs, which show that the ancestors of original Australians migrated from Egypt in the late paleolithic and the neolithic ages\".\n\nSlater's observations and theories have been supported in recent years by other 'pseudoarchaeologists' such as Steven Strong, and in 2017 the mound south of Brunswick Heads was nominated local heritage about which Salter wrote in 1939 \"ABORIGINES WORSHIP MOUND-A mound 35ft. long and 15ft. high, which has been discovered about three miles from Brunswick Heads, is believed to have been an aborigines' religious mound, which was a centre of worship for aborigines from all parts of Australia before the coming of the white race. Access to the mound is gained by a sloping pathway on one side. It appears to have been untouched for a great many years. The president of the Archaeological Society of Australia (Mr. Frederick Slater) has deciphered many of the carvings on the sandstone, which must have been brought a considerable distance. There is none of it in the district. Another such mound is known to exist in North Australia. A Fraser Island aborigine when told of the discovery said that his tribe had been searching for the mound for years. Mr. Slater said that the attitude of silence of the aborigine after saying that was similar to that shown by other aborigines since they first came In contact with white men\" (Daily Advertiser [Wagga Wagga], Wednesday 2 August 1939, page 4 http://trove.nla.gov.au/newspaper/article/145374467 )\n\n"}
{"id": "42208089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42208089", "title": "Frédéric Charles Jean Gingins de la Sarraz", "text": "Frédéric Charles Jean Gingins de la Sarraz\n\nFrédéric Charles Jean Gingins de la Sarraz (14 August 1790, Éclépens – 27 February 1863, Lausanne) was a Swiss historian and botanist.\n\nFrom 1817 to 1828 he worked as a translator of the French language in the State Chancellery at Bern. In 1844 he received an honorary doctorate from the University of Bern and in 1854 was awarded an honorary professorship at the Academy of Lausanne.\n\nAs a historian, he published numerous works from 1833 up until his death in 1863, most notably writings associated with the First and Second Kingdoms of Burgundy. In 1837 he was a founding member of the \"Société d'histoire de la Suisse romande\", and from 1840 was a full member of the \"Académie des sciences, belles-lettres et arts de Savoie\".\n\nIn 1823 he published a treatise on the botanical family Violaceae titled \"Mémoire sur la famille des Violacées\". As a taxonomist he described a number of species within the genus \"Viola\". In 1828 Augustin Pyramus de Candolle named the genus \"Ginginsia\" in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "38433927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38433927", "title": "Gabriel de Mussis", "text": "Gabriel de Mussis\n\nGabriel de Mussis (\"ca.\" 1280 - \"ca.\" 1356) — also Gabriele de' Mussi — was a notary from Piacenza, Italy, who gave a vivid account of the Black Death (bubonic plague) in the Black Sea city of Kaffa (Feodosia) and in Sicily known as \"Istoria de Morbo sive Mortalitate quae fuit Anno Dni MCCCXLVIII\" [“History of the Disease, OR The Great Dying of the Year of our Lord 1348”] De Mussis’ account then continues to record the terror in Piacenza. Although it was formerly believed that de Mussis had been present in Kaffa and travelled in a disease-laden ship to Piacenza, it has been determined that he probably never left home. De Mussis apparently recorded an early example of biological warfare in describing the hurling of plague-infected cadavers over the Kaffa city walls by the besieging Tartars in 1346. Modern authorities believe that his description of events is plausible and may indicate that plague was successfully introduced into Kaffa by the Tartars, but that the long-standing belief that the events at Kaffa contributed to the spread of plague beyond the city is not correct.\n\n"}
{"id": "11603215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11603215", "title": "Geological history of Earth", "text": "Geological history of Earth\n\nThe geological history of Earth follows the major events in Earth's past based on the geological time scale, a system of chronological measurement based on the study of the planet's rock layers (stratigraphy). Earth formed about 4.54 billion years ago by accretion from the solar nebula, a disk-shaped mass of dust and gas left over from the formation of the Sun, which also created the rest of the Solar System.\n\nEarth was initially molten due to extreme volcanism and frequent collisions with other bodies. Eventually, the outer layer of the planet cooled to form a solid crust when water began accumulating in the atmosphere. The Moon formed soon afterwards, possibly as a result of the impact of a planetoid with the Earth. Outgassing and volcanic activity produced the primordial atmosphere. Condensing water vapor, augmented by ice delivered from comets, produced the oceans.\n\nAs the surface continually reshaped itself over hundreds of millions of years, continents formed and broke apart. They migrated across the surface, occasionally combining to form a supercontinent. Roughly , the earliest-known supercontinent Rodinia, began to break apart. The continents later recombined to form Pannotia, , then finally Pangaea, which broke apart .\n\nThe present pattern of ice ages began about , then intensified at the end of the Pliocene. The polar regions have since undergone repeated cycles of glaciation and thaw, repeating every 40,000–100,000 years. The last glacial period of the current ice age ended about 10,000 years ago.\n\nThe Precambrian includes approximately 90% of geologic time. It extends from 4.6 billion years ago to the beginning of the Cambrian Period (about 541 Ma). It includes three eons, the Hadean, Archean, and Proterozoic.\n\nMajor volcanic events altering the Earth's environment and causing extinctions may have occurred 10 times in the past 3 billion years.\n\nDuring Hadean time (4.6–4 Ga), the Solar System was forming, probably within a large cloud of gas and dust around the sun, called an accretion disc from which Earth formed .\nThe Hadean Eon is not formally recognized, but it essentially marks the era before we have adequate record of significant solid rocks. The oldest dated zircons date from about .\n\nEarth was initially molten due to extreme volcanism and frequent collisions with other bodies. Eventually, the outer layer of the planet cooled to form a solid crust when water began accumulating in the atmosphere. The Moon formed soon afterwards, possibly as a result of the impact of a large planetoid with the Earth. Some of this object's mass merged with the Earth, significantly altering its internal composition, and a portion was ejected into space. Some of the material survived to form an orbiting moon. More recent potassium isotopic studies suggest that the Moon was formed by a smaller, high-energy, high-angular-momentum giant impact cleaving off a significant portion of the Earth. Outgassing and volcanic activity produced the primordial atmosphere. Condensing water vapor, augmented by ice delivered from comets, produced the oceans.\n\nDuring the Hadean the Late Heavy Bombardment occurred (approximately ) during which a large number of impact craters are believed to have formed on the Moon, and by inference on Earth, Mercury, Venus and Mars as well.\n\nThe Earth of the early Archean () may have had a different tectonic style. During this time, the Earth's crust cooled enough that rocks and continental plates began to form. Some scientists think because the Earth was hotter, that plate tectonic activity was more vigorous than it is today, resulting in a much greater rate of recycling of crustal material. This may have prevented cratonisation and continent formation until the mantle cooled and convection slowed down. Others argue that the subcontinental lithospheric mantle is too buoyant to subduct and that the lack of Archean rocks is a function of erosion and subsequent tectonic events.\n\nIn contrast to the Proterozoic, Archean rocks are often heavily metamorphized deep-water sediments, such as graywackes, mudstones, volcanic sediments and banded iron formations. Greenstone belts are typical Archean formations, consisting of alternating high- and low-grade metamorphic rocks. The high-grade rocks were derived from volcanic island arcs, while the low-grade metamorphic rocks represent deep-sea sediments eroded from the neighboring island rocks and deposited in a forearc basin. In short, greenstone belts represent sutured protocontinents.\n\nThe Earth's magnetic field was established 3.5 billion years ago. The solar wind flux was about 100 times the value of the modern Sun, so the presence of the magnetic field helped prevent the planet's atmosphere from being stripped away, which is what probably happened to the atmosphere of Mars. However, the field strength was lower than at present and the magnetosphere was about half the modern radius.\n\nThe geologic record of the Proterozoic () is more complete than that for the preceding Archean. In contrast to the deep-water deposits of the Archean, the Proterozoic features many strata that were laid down in extensive shallow epicontinental seas; furthermore, many of these rocks are less metamorphosed than Archean-age ones, and plenty are unaltered. Study of these rocks show that the eon featured massive, rapid continental accretion (unique to the Proterozoic), supercontinent cycles, and wholly modern orogenic activity. Roughly , the earliest-known supercontinent Rodinia, began to break apart. The continents later recombined to form Pannotia, 600–540 Ma.\n\nThe first-known glaciations occurred during the Proterozoic, one began shortly after the beginning of the eon, while there were at least four during the Neoproterozoic, climaxing with the Snowball Earth of the Varangian glaciation.\n\nThe Phanerozoic Eon is the current eon in the geologic timescale. It covers roughly 541 million years. During this period continents drifted about, eventually collected into a single landmass known as Pangea and then split up into the current continental landmasses.\n\nThe Phanerozoic is divided into three eras – the Paleozoic, the Mesozoic and the Cenozoic.\n\nMost of biological evolution occurred during this time period.\n\nThe Paleozoic spanned from roughly (Ma) and is subdivided into six geologic periods; from oldest to youngest they are the Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian. Geologically, the Paleozoic starts shortly after the breakup of a supercontinent called Pannotia and at the end of a global ice age. Throughout the early Paleozoic, the Earth's landmass was broken up into a substantial number of relatively small continents. Toward the end of the era the continents gathered together into a supercontinent called Pangaea, which included most of the Earth's land area.\n\nThe Cambrian is a major division of the geologic timescale that begins about 541.0 ± 1.0 Ma. Cambrian continents are thought to have resulted from the breakup of a Neoproterozoic supercontinent called Pannotia. The waters of the Cambrian period appear to have been widespread and shallow. Continental drift rates may have been anomalously high. Laurentia, Baltica and Siberia remained independent continents following the break-up of the supercontinent of Pannotia. Gondwana started to drift toward the South Pole. Panthalassa covered most of the southern hemisphere, and minor oceans included the Proto-Tethys Ocean, Iapetus Ocean and Khanty Ocean.\n\nThe Ordovician period started at a major extinction event called the Cambrian–Ordovician extinction event some time about 485.4 ± 1.9 Ma. During the Ordovician the southern continents were collected into a single continent called Gondwana. Gondwana started the period in the equatorial latitudes and, as the period progressed, drifted toward the South Pole. Early in the Ordovician the continents Laurentia, Siberia and Baltica were still independent continents (since the break-up of the supercontinent Pannotia earlier), but Baltica began to move toward Laurentia later in the period, causing the Iapetus Ocean to shrink between them. Also, Avalonia broke free from Gondwana and began to head north toward Laurentia. The Rheic Ocean was formed as a result of this. By the end of the period, Gondwana had neared or approached the pole and was largely glaciated.\n\nThe Ordovician came to a close in a series of extinction events that, taken together, comprise the second-largest of the five major extinction events in Earth's history in terms of percentage of genera that became extinct. The only larger one was the Permian-Triassic extinction event. The extinctions occurred approximately and mark the boundary between the Ordovician and the following Silurian Period.\n\nThe most-commonly accepted theory is that these events were triggered by the onset of an ice age, in the Hirnantian faunal stage that ended the long, stable greenhouse conditions typical of the Ordovician. The ice age was probably not as long-lasting as once thought; study of oxygen isotopes in fossil brachiopods shows that it was probably no longer than 0.5 to 1.5 million years. The event was preceded by a fall in atmospheric carbon dioxide (from 7000ppm to 4400ppm) which selectively affected the shallow seas where most organisms lived. As the southern supercontinent Gondwana drifted over the South Pole, ice caps formed on it. Evidence of these ice caps have been detected in Upper Ordovician rock strata of North Africa and then-adjacent northeastern South America, which were south-polar locations at the time.\n\nThe Silurian is a major division of the geologic timescale that started about 443.8 ± 1.5 Ma. During the Silurian, Gondwana continued a slow southward drift to high southern latitudes, but there is evidence that the Silurian ice caps were less extensive than those of the late Ordovician glaciation. The melting of ice caps and glaciers contributed to a rise in sea levels, recognizable from the fact that Silurian sediments overlie eroded Ordovician sediments, forming an unconformity. Other cratons and continent fragments drifted together near the equator, starting the formation of a second supercontinent known as Euramerica. The vast ocean of Panthalassa covered most of the northern hemisphere. Other minor oceans include Proto-Tethys, Paleo-Tethys, Rheic Ocean, a seaway of Iapetus Ocean (now in between Avalonia and Laurentia), and newly formed Ural Ocean.\n\nThe Devonian spanned roughly from 419 to 359 Ma. The period was a time of great tectonic activity, as Laurasia and Gondwana drew closer together. The continent Euramerica (or Laurussia) was created in the early Devonian by the collision of Laurentia and Baltica, which rotated into the natural dry zone along the Tropic of Capricorn. In these near-deserts, the Old Red Sandstone sedimentary beds formed, made red by the oxidized iron (hematite) characteristic of drought conditions. Near the equator Pangaea began to consolidate from the plates containing North America and Europe, further raising the northern Appalachian Mountains and forming the Caledonian Mountains in Great Britain and Scandinavia. The southern continents remained tied together in the supercontinent of Gondwana. The remainder of modern Eurasia lay in the Northern Hemisphere. Sea levels were high worldwide, and much of the land lay submerged under shallow seas. The deep, enormous Panthalassa (the \"universal ocean\") covered the rest of the planet. Other minor oceans were Paleo-Tethys, Proto-Tethys, Rheic Ocean and Ural Ocean (which was closed during the collision with Siberia and Baltica).\n\nThe Carboniferous extends from about 358.9 ± 0.4 to about 298.9 ± 0.15 Ma.\n\nA global drop in sea level at the end of the Devonian reversed early in the Carboniferous; this created the widespread epicontinental seas and carbonate deposition of the Mississippian. There was also a drop in south polar temperatures; southern Gondwana was glaciated throughout the period, though it is uncertain if the ice sheets were a holdover from the Devonian or not. These conditions apparently had little effect in the deep tropics, where lush coal swamps flourished within 30 degrees of the northernmost glaciers. A mid-Carboniferous drop in sea-level precipitated a major marine extinction, one that hit crinoids and ammonites especially hard. This sea-level drop and the associated unconformity in North America separate the Mississippian Period from the Pennsylvanian period.\n\nThe Carboniferous was a time of active mountain building, as the supercontinent Pangea came together. The southern continents remained tied together in the supercontinent Gondwana, which collided with North America-Europe (Laurussia) along the present line of eastern North America. This continental collision resulted in the Hercynian orogeny in Europe, and the Alleghenian orogeny in North America; it also extended the newly uplifted Appalachians southwestward as the Ouachita Mountains. In the same time frame, much of present eastern Eurasian plate welded itself to Europe along the line of the Ural mountains. There were two major oceans in the Carboniferous the Panthalassa and Paleo-Tethys. Other minor oceans were shrinking and eventually closed the Rheic Ocean (closed by the assembly of South and North America), the small, shallow Ural Ocean (which was closed by the collision of Baltica, and Siberia continents, creating the Ural Mountains) and Proto-Tethys Ocean.\n\nThe Permian extends from about 298.9 ± 0.15 to 252.17 ± 0.06 Ma.\n\nDuring the Permian all the Earth's major land masses, except portions of East Asia, were collected into a single supercontinent known as Pangaea. Pangaea straddled the equator and extended toward the poles, with a corresponding effect on ocean currents in the single great ocean (\"Panthalassa\", the \"universal sea\"), and the Paleo-Tethys Ocean, a large ocean that was between Asia and Gondwana. The Cimmeria continent rifted away from Gondwana and drifted north to Laurasia, causing the Paleo-Tethys to shrink. A new ocean was growing on its southern end, the Tethys Ocean, an ocean that would dominate much of the Mesozoic Era. Large continental landmasses create climates with extreme variations of heat and cold (\"continental climate\") and monsoon conditions with highly seasonal rainfall patterns. Deserts seem to have been widespread on Pangaea.\n\nThe Mesozoic extended roughly from .\n\nAfter the vigorous convergent plate mountain-building of the late Paleozoic, Mesozoic tectonic deformation was comparatively mild. Nevertheless, the era featured the dramatic rifting of the supercontinent Pangaea. Pangaea gradually split into a northern continent, Laurasia, and a southern continent, Gondwana. This created the passive continental margin that characterizes most of the Atlantic coastline (such as along the U.S. East Coast) today.\n\nThe Triassic Period extends from about 252.17 ± 0.06 to 201.3 ± 0.2 Ma. During the Triassic, almost all the Earth's land mass was concentrated into a single supercontinent centered more or less on the equator, called Pangaea (\"all the land\"). This took the form of a giant \"Pac-Man\" with an east-facing \"mouth\" constituting the Tethys sea, a vast gulf that opened farther westward in the mid-Triassic, at the expense of the shrinking Paleo-Tethys Ocean, an ocean that existed during the Paleozoic.\n\nThe remainder was the world-ocean known as Panthalassa (\"all the sea\"). All the deep-ocean sediments laid down during the Triassic have disappeared through subduction of oceanic plates; thus, very little is known of the Triassic open ocean. The supercontinent Pangaea was rifting during the Triassic—especially late in the period—but had not yet separated. The first nonmarine sediments in the rift that marks the initial break-up of Pangea—which separated New Jersey from Morocco—are of Late Triassic age; in the U.S., these thick sediments comprise the Newark Supergroup.\nBecause of the limited shoreline of one super-continental mass, Triassic marine deposits are globally relatively rare; despite their prominence in Western Europe, where the Triassic was first studied. In North America, for example, marine deposits are limited to a few exposures in the west. Thus Triassic stratigraphy is mostly based on organisms living in lagoons and hypersaline environments, such as \"Estheria\" crustaceans and terrestrial vertebrates.\n\nThe Jurassic Period extends from about 201.3 ± 0.2 to 145.0 Ma.\nDuring the early Jurassic, the supercontinent Pangaea broke up into the northern supercontinent Laurasia and the southern supercontinent Gondwana; the Gulf of Mexico opened in the new rift between North America and what is now Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. The Jurassic North Atlantic Ocean was relatively narrow, while the South Atlantic did not open until the following Cretaceous Period, when Gondwana itself rifted apart.\nThe Tethys Sea closed, and the Neotethys basin appeared. Climates were warm, with no evidence of glaciation. As in the Triassic, there was apparently no land near either pole, and no extensive ice caps existed. The Jurassic geological record is good in western Europe, where extensive marine sequences indicate a time when much of the continent was submerged under shallow tropical seas; famous locales include the Jurassic Coast World Heritage Site and the renowned late Jurassic \"lagerstätten\" of Holzmaden and Solnhofen.\nIn contrast, the North American Jurassic record is the poorest of the Mesozoic, with few outcrops at the surface. Though the epicontinental Sundance Sea left marine deposits in parts of the northern plains of the United States and Canada during the late Jurassic, most exposed sediments from this period are continental, such as the alluvial deposits of the Morrison Formation. The first of several massive batholiths were emplaced in the northern Cordillera beginning in the mid-Jurassic, marking the Nevadan orogeny. Important Jurassic exposures are also found in Russia, India, South America, Japan, Australasia and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Cretaceous Period extends from circa to .\n\nDuring the Cretaceous, the late Paleozoic-early Mesozoic supercontinent of Pangaea completed its breakup into present day continents, although their positions were substantially different at the time. As the Atlantic Ocean widened, the convergent-margin orogenies that had begun during the Jurassic continued in the North American Cordillera, as the Nevadan orogeny was followed by the Sevier and Laramide orogenies. Though Gondwana was still intact in the beginning of the Cretaceous, Gondwana itself broke up as South America, Antarctica and Australia rifted away from Africa (though India and Madagascar remained attached to each other); thus, the South Atlantic and Indian Oceans were newly formed. Such active rifting lifted great undersea mountain chains along the welts, raising eustatic sea levels worldwide.\n\nTo the north of Africa the Tethys Sea continued to narrow. Broad shallow seas advanced across central North America (the Western Interior Seaway) and Europe, then receded late in the period, leaving thick marine deposits sandwiched between coal beds. At the peak of the Cretaceous transgression, one-third of Earth's present land area was submerged. The Cretaceous is justly famous for its chalk; indeed, more chalk formed in the Cretaceous than in any other period in the Phanerozoic. Mid-ocean ridge activity—or rather, the circulation of seawater through the enlarged ridges—enriched the oceans in calcium; this made the oceans more saturated, as well as increased the bioavailability of the element for calcareous nanoplankton. These widespread carbonates and other sedimentary deposits make the Cretaceous rock record especially fine. Famous formations from North America include the rich marine fossils of Kansas's Smoky Hill Chalk Member and the terrestrial fauna of the late Cretaceous Hell Creek Formation. Other important Cretaceous exposures occur in Europe and China. In the area that is now India, massive lava beds called the Deccan Traps were laid down in the very late Cretaceous and early Paleocene.\n\nThe Cenozoic Era covers the  million years since the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event up to and including the present day. By the end of the Mesozoic era, the continents had rifted into nearly their present form. Laurasia became North America and Eurasia, while Gondwana split into South America, Africa, Australia, Antarctica and the Indian subcontinent, which collided with the Asian plate. This impact gave rise to the Himalayas. The Tethys Sea, which had separated the northern continents from Africa and India, began to close up, forming the Mediterranean sea.\n\nThe Paleogene (alternatively Palaeogene) Period is a unit of geologic time that began and ended 23.03 Ma and comprises the first part of the Cenozoic Era. This period consists of the Paleocene, Eocene and Oligocene Epochs.\n\nThe Paleocene, lasted from to .\n\nIn many ways, the Paleocene continued processes that had begun during the late Cretaceous Period. During the Paleocene, the continents continued to drift toward their present positions. Supercontinent Laurasia had not yet separated into three continents. Europe and Greenland were still connected. North America and Asia were still intermittently joined by a land bridge, while Greenland and North America were beginning to separate. The Laramide orogeny of the late Cretaceous continued to uplift the Rocky Mountains in the American west, which ended in the succeeding epoch. South and North America remained separated by equatorial seas (they joined during the Neogene); the components of the former southern supercontinent Gondwana continued to split apart, with Africa, South America, Antarctica and Australia pulling away from each other. Africa was heading north toward Europe, slowly closing the Tethys Ocean, and India began its migration to Asia that would lead to a tectonic collision and the formation of the Himalayas.\n\nDuring the Eocene ( - ), the continents continued to drift toward their present positions. At the beginning of the period, Australia and Antarctica remained connected, and warm equatorial currents mixed with colder Antarctic waters, distributing the heat around the world and keeping global temperatures high. But when Australia split from the southern continent around 45 Ma, the warm equatorial currents were deflected away from Antarctica, and an isolated cold water channel developed between the two continents. The Antarctic region cooled down, and the ocean surrounding Antarctica began to freeze, sending cold water and ice floes north, reinforcing the cooling. The present pattern of ice ages began about .\n\nThe northern supercontinent of Laurasia began to break up, as Europe, Greenland and North America drifted apart. In western North America, mountain building started in the Eocene, and huge lakes formed in the high flat basins among uplifts. In Europe, the Tethys Sea finally vanished, while the uplift of the Alps isolated its final remnant, the Mediterranean, and created another shallow sea with island archipelagos to the north. Though the North Atlantic was opening, a land connection appears to have remained between North America and Europe since the faunas of the two regions are very similar. India continued its journey away from Africa and began its collision with Asia, creating the Himalayan orogeny.\n\nThe Oligocene Epoch extends from about to . During the Oligocene the continents continued to drift toward their present positions.\n\nAntarctica continued to become more isolated and finally developed a permanent ice cap. Mountain building in western North America continued, and the Alps started to rise in Europe as the African plate continued to push north into the Eurasian plate, isolating the remnants of Tethys Sea. A brief marine incursion marks the early Oligocene in Europe. There appears to have been a land bridge in the early Oligocene between North America and Europe since the faunas of the two regions are very similar. During the Oligocene, South America was finally detached from Antarctica and drifted north toward North America. It also allowed the Antarctic Circumpolar Current to flow, rapidly cooling the continent.\n\nThe Neogene Period is a unit of geologic time starting 23.03 Ma. and ends at 2.588 Ma. The Neogene Period follows the Paleogene Period. The Neogene consists of the Miocene and Pliocene and is followed by the Quaternary Period.\n\nThe Miocene extends from about 23.03 to 5.333 Ma.\n\nDuring the Miocene continents continued to drift toward their present positions. Of the modern geologic features, only the land bridge between South America and North America was absent, the subduction zone along the Pacific Ocean margin of South America caused the rise of the Andes and the southward extension of the Meso-American peninsula. India continued to collide with Asia. The Tethys Seaway continued to shrink and then disappeared as Africa collided with Eurasia in the Turkish-Arabian region between 19 and 12 Ma (ICS 2004). Subsequent uplift of mountains in the western Mediterranean region and a global fall in sea levels combined to cause a temporary drying up of the Mediterranean Sea resulting in the Messinian salinity crisis near the end of the Miocene.\n\nThe Pliocene extends from to . During the Pliocene continents continued to drift toward their present positions, moving from positions possibly as far as from their present locations to positions only 70 km from their current locations.\n\nSouth America became linked to North America through the Isthmus of Panama during the Pliocene, bringing a nearly complete end to South America's distinctive marsupial faunas. The formation of the Isthmus had major consequences on global temperatures, since warm equatorial ocean currents were cut off and an Atlantic cooling cycle began, with cold Arctic and Antarctic waters dropping temperatures in the now-isolated Atlantic Ocean. Africa's collision with Europe formed the Mediterranean Sea, cutting off the remnants of the Tethys Ocean. Sea level changes exposed the land-bridge between Alaska and Asia. Near the end of the Pliocene, about (the start of the Quaternary Period), the current ice age began. The polar regions have since undergone repeated cycles of glaciation and thaw, repeating every 40,000–100,000 years.\n\nThe Pleistocene extends from to 11,700 years before present. The modern continents were essentially at their present positions during the Pleistocene, the plates upon which they sit probably having moved no more than relative to each other since the beginning of the period.\n\nThe Holocene Epoch began approximately 11,700 calendar years before present and continues to the present. During the Holocene, continental motions have been less than a kilometer.\n\nThe last glacial period of the current ice age ended about 10,000 years ago. Ice melt caused world sea levels to rise about in the early part of the Holocene. In addition, many areas above about 40 degrees north latitude had been depressed by the weight of the Pleistocene glaciers and rose as much as over the late Pleistocene and Holocene, and are still rising today. The sea level rise and temporary land depression allowed temporary marine incursions into areas that are now far from the sea. Holocene marine fossils are known from Vermont, Quebec, Ontario and Michigan. Other than higher latitude temporary marine incursions associated with glacial depression, Holocene fossils are found primarily in lakebed, floodplain and cave deposits. Holocene marine deposits along low-latitude coastlines are rare because the rise in sea levels during the period exceeds any likely upthrusting of non-glacial origin. Post-glacial rebound in Scandinavia resulted in the emergence of coastal areas around the Baltic Sea, including much of Finland. The region continues to rise, still causing weak earthquakes across Northern Europe. The equivalent event in North America was the rebound of Hudson Bay, as it shrank from its larger, immediate post-glacial Tyrrell Sea phase, to near its present boundaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23226158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23226158", "title": "Gregory Weeks", "text": "Gregory Weeks\n\nGregory Weeks (born 1970) is a lecturer at the International Relations Department at Webster University in Vienna, Austria. He was the Head of the International Relations Department from 2005 until 2011. Weeks teaches and researches civil-military relations, genocide prevention, and twentieth century Austrian and German diplomatic and military history.\n\nHe received his doctorate in Contemporary History from the Karl-Franzens-Universität in Graz, Austria, and earned his M.A. in European History from Purdue University. As a Charles H. Revson Foundation Fellow at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in 2004–2005, he conducted research on “The Role of the Vienna Municipal Police in the Forced Emigration and Murder of Jews, 1938–1944. In 2006, he was the Baron Friedrich Carl von Oppenheim Chair for the Study of Racism, Antisemitism, and the Holocaust at the Holocaust Martyrs’ and Heroes’ Remembrance Authority, Yad Vashem, in Jerusalem, where he researched anti-Semitic and racist attitudes within the police force in Vienna from 1918 to 1945. Most recently in the Fall of 2008, he was a Corrie ten Boom Fellow at the USC Shoah Foundation’s Visual History Archive in Los Angeles.\n\nWeeks has co-authored Vienna’s Conscience: Close-Ups and Conversations after Hitler (2007), which focuses on the fiftieth anniversary of the annexation of Austria by Germany in 1938 and Austrian efforts to confront the country’s World War II past. In addition, he has authored over two dozen scholarly articles, among others on the German colonial wars, Leni Riefenstahl, and the Weimar Republic. Together with the War Crimes Section of the Canadian Department of Justice, he conducted archival research to aid in the post-war trials of Austrian National Socialists. Weeks has received distinguished fellowships and awards from several institutions and foundations including the United States Military Academy, the Leucorea Foundation, and the Stuttgart Seminar in Cultural Studies. With a Holocaust Educational Foundation Fellowship, Professor Weeks spent a summer studying the Holocaust and Jewish Civilization with prominent scholars from across the globe in 1998.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1664561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1664561", "title": "Intentional stance", "text": "Intentional stance\n\nThe intentional stance is a term coined by philosopher Daniel Dennett for the level of abstraction in which we view the behavior of an entity in terms of mental properties. It is part of a theory of mental content proposed by Dennett, which provides the underpinnings of his later works on free will, consciousness, folk psychology, and evolution.\n\nDennett (1971, p. 87) states that he took the concept of \"intentionality\" from the work of the German philosopher Franz Brentano. When clarifying the distinction between mental phenomena (viz., mental activity) and physical phenomena, Brentano (p. 97) argued that, in contrast with physical phenomena, the \"distinguishing characteristic of all mental phenomena\" was \"the reference to something as an object\" – a characteristic he called \"intentional inexistence\". Dennett constantly speaks of the \"aboutness\" of \"intentionality\"; for example: \"the aboutness of the pencil marks composing a shopping list is derived from the intentions of the person whose list it is\" (Dennett, 1995, p. 240).\n\nJohn Searle (1999, pp. 85) stresses that \"competence\" in predicting/explaining human behaviour involves being able to both recognize others as \"intentional\" beings, and interpret others' minds as having \"intentional states\" (e.g., beliefs and desires):\n\nAccording to Dennett (1987, pp. 48–49), folk psychology provides a systematic, \"reason-giving explanation\" for a particular action, and an account of the historical origins of that action, based on deeply embedded assumptions about the agent; namely that:\n\nThis approach is also consistent with the earlier work of Fritz Heider and Marianne Simmel, whose joint study revealed that, when subjects were presented with an animated display of 2-dimensional shapes, they were inclined to ascribe intentions to the shapes.\n\nFurther, Dennett (1987, p. 52) argues that, based on our fixed personal views of what all humans ought to believe, desire and do, we predict (or explain) the beliefs, desires and actions of others \"by calculating in a normative system\"; and, driven by the reasonable assumption that all humans are rational beings – who do \"have\" specific beliefs and desires and do \"act\" on the basis of those beliefs and desires in order to get what they want – these predictions/explanations are based on four simple rules:\n\n\nThe core idea is that, when understanding, explaining, and/or predicting the behavior of an object, we can choose to view it at varying levels of abstraction. The more concrete the level, the more accurate \"in principle\" our predictions are; the more abstract, the greater the computational power we gain by zooming out and skipping over the irrelevant details.\n\nDennett defines three levels of abstraction, attained by adopting one of three entirely different \"stances\", or intellectual strategies: the physical stance; the design stance; and the intentional stance:\n\nA key point is that switching to a higher level of abstraction has its risks as well as its benefits. For example, when we view both a bimetallic strip and a tube of mercury as thermometers, we can lose track of the fact that they differ in accuracy and temperature range, leading to false predictions as soon as the thermometer is used outside the circumstances for which it was designed. The actions of a mercury thermometer heated to 500 °C can no longer be predicted on the basis of treating it as a thermometer; we have to sink down to the physical stance to understand it as a melted and boiled piece of junk. For that matter, the \"actions\" of a dead bird are not predictable in terms of beliefs or desires.\n\nEven when there is no immediate error, a higher-level stance can simply fail to be useful. If we were to try to understand the thermostat at the level of the intentional stance, ascribing to it beliefs about how hot it is and a desire to keep the temperature just right, we would gain no traction over the problem as compared to staying at the design stance, but we would generate theoretical commitments that expose us to absurdities, such as the possibility of the thermostat not being in the mood to work today because the weather is so nice. Whether to take a particular stance, then, is determined by how successful that stance is when applied.\n\nDennett argues that it is best to understand human behavior at the level of the intentional stance, without making any specific commitments to any deeper reality of the artifacts of folk psychology. In addition to the controversy inherent in this, there is also some dispute about the extent to which Dennett is committing to realism about mental properties. Initially, Dennett's interpretation was seen as leaning more towards instrumentalism, but over the years, as this idea has been used to support more extensive theories of consciousness, it has been taken as being more like Realism. His own words hint at something in the middle, as he suggests that the self is as real as a center of gravity, \"an abstract object, a theorist's fiction\", but operationally valid.\n\nAs a way of thinking about things, Dennett's intentional stance is entirely consistent with everyday commonsense understanding; and, thus, it meets Eleanor Rosch's (1978, p. 28) criterion of the \"maximum information with the least cognitive effort\". Rosch argues that, implicit within any system of categorization, are the assumptions that:\n\nAlso, the intentional stance meets the criteria Dennett specified (1995, pp. 50–51) for algorithms:\n\nThe general notion of a three level system was widespread in the late 1970s/early 1980s; for example, when discussing the mental representation of information from a cognitive psychology perspective, Glass and his colleagues (1979, p. 24) distinguished three important aspects of representation:\nOther significant cognitive scientists who also advocated a three level system were Allen Newell, Zenon Pylyshyn, and David Marr. The parallels between the four representations (each of which implicitly assumed that computers \"and\" human minds displayed each of the three distinct levels) are detailed in the following table:\nThe most obvious objection to Dennett is the intuition that it \"matters\" to us whether an object has an inner life or not. The claim is that we don't just imagine the intentional states of other people in order to predict their behaviour; the fact that they have thoughts and feelings just like we do is central to notions such as trust, friendship and love. The Blockhead argument proposes that someone, Jones, has a twin who is in fact not a person but a very sophisticated robot which looks and acts like Jones in every way, but who (it is claimed) somehow does not have any thoughts or feelings at all, just a chip which controls his behaviour; in other words, \"the lights are on but no one's home\". According to the intentional systems theory (IST), Jones and the robot have precisely the same beliefs and desires, but this is claimed to be false. The IST expert assigns the same mental states to Blockhead as he does to Jones, \"whereas in fact [Blockhead] has not a thought in his head.\" Dennett has argued against this by denying the premise, on the basis that the robot is a philosophical zombie and therefore metaphysically impossible. In other words, if something acts in all ways conscious, it necessarily is, as consciousness is defined in terms of behavioral capacity, not ineffable qualia.\n\nAnother objection attacks the premise that treating people as ideally rational creatures will yield the best predictions. Stephen Stich argues that people often have beliefs or desires which are irrational or bizarre, and IST doesn't allow us to say anything about these. If the person's \"environmental niche\" is examined closely enough, and the possibility of malfunction in their brain (which might affect their reasoning capacities) is looked into, it may be possible to formulate a predictive strategy specific to that person. Indeed this is what we often do when someone is behaving unpredictably — we look for the reasons why. In other words, we can only deal with irrationality by contrasting it against the background assumption of rationality. This development significantly undermines the claims of the intentional stance argument.\n\nThe rationale behind the intentional stance is based on evolutionary theory, particularly the notion that the ability to make quick predictions of a system's behaviour based on what we think it might be thinking was an evolutionary adaptive advantage. The fact that our predictive powers are not perfect is a further result of the advantages sometimes accrued by acting contrary to expectations.\n\nPhilip Robbins and Anthony I. Jack suggest that \"Dennett's philosophical distinction between the physical and intentional stances has a lot going for it\" from the perspective of psychology and neuroscience. They review studies on abilities to adopt an intentional stance (variously called \"mindreading,\" \"mentalizing,\" or \"theory of mind\") as distinct from adopting a physical stance (\"folk physics,\" \"intuitive physics,\" or \"theory of body\"). Autism seems to be a deficit in the intentional stance with preservation of the physical stance, while Williams syndrome can involve deficits in the physical stance with preservation of the intentional stance. This tentatively suggests a double dissociation of intentional and physical stances in the brain. However, most studies have found no evidence of impairment in autistic individuals' ability to understand other people's basic intentions or goals; instead, data suggests that impairments are found in understanding more complex social emotions or in considering others' viewpoints.\n\nRobbins and Jack point to a 2003 study in which participants viewed animated geometric shapes in different \"vignettes,\" some of which could be interpreted as constituting social interaction, while others suggested mechanical behavior. Viewing social interactions elicited activity in brain regions associated with identifying faces and biological objects (posterior temporal cortex), as well as emotion processing (right amygdala and ventromedial prefrontal cortex). Meanwhile, the mechanical interactions activated regions related to identifying objects like tools that can be manipulated (posterior temporal lobe). The authors suggest \"that these findings reveal putative 'core systems' for social and mechanical understanding that are divisible into constituent parts or elements with distinct processing and storage capabilities.\"\n\nRobbins and Jack argue for an additional stance beyond the three that Dennett outlined. They call it the \"phenomenal stance\": Attributing consciousness, emotions, and inner experience to a mind. The explanatory gap of the hard problem of consciousness illustrates this tendency of people to see phenomenal experience as different from physical processes. The authors suggest that psychopathy may represent a deficit in the phenomenal but not intentional stance, while people with autism appear to have intact moral sensibilities, just not mind-reading abilities. These examples suggest a double dissociation between the intentional and phenomenal stances.\n\nIn a follow-up paper, Robbins and Jack describe four experiments about how the intentional and phenomenal stances relate to feelings of moral concern. The first two experiments showed that talking about lobsters as strongly emotional led to a much greater sentiment that lobsters deserved welfare protections than did talking about lobsters as highly intelligent. The third and fourth studies found that perceiving an agent as vulnerable led to greater attributions of phenomenal experience. Also, people who scored higher on the empathetic-concern subscale of the Interpersonal Reactivity Index had generally higher absolute attributions of mental experience.\n\nBryce Huebner (2010) performed two experimental philosophy studies to test students' ascriptions of various mental states to humans compared with cyborgs and robots. Experiment 1 showed that while students attributed both beliefs and pains most strongly to humans, they were more willing to attribute beliefs than pains to robots and cyborgs. \"[T]hese data seem to confirm that commonsense psychology does draw a distinction between phenomenal and non-phenomenal states--and this distinction seems to be dependent on the structural properties of an entity in a way that ascriptions of non-phenomenal states are not.\" However, this conclusion is only tentative in view of the high variance among participants. Experiment 2 showed analogous results: Both beliefs and happiness were ascribed most strongly to biological humans, and ascriptions of happiness to robots or cyborgs were less common than ascriptions of beliefs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2052150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2052150", "title": "Jacobean architecture", "text": "Jacobean architecture\n\nThe Jacobean style is the second phase of Renaissance architecture in England, following the Elizabethan style. It is named after King James I of England, with whose reign (1603–1625 in England) it is associated. At the start of James' reign there was little stylistic break in architecture, as Elizabethan trends continued their development. However his death in 1625 came as a decisive change towards more classical architecture, with Italian influence, was in progress, led by Inigo Jones; the style this began is sometimes called Stuart architecture, or English Baroque (though the latter term may be regarded as starting later).\n\nCourtiers continued to build large prodigy houses, even though James spent less time on summer progresses round his realm than Elizabeth had. The influence of Flemish and German Northern Mannerism increased, now often executed by immigrant craftsmen and artists, rather than obtained from books as in the previous reign. There continued to be very little building of new churches, though a considerable amount of modifications to old ones, but a great deal of secular building.\n\nThe reign of James VI of Scotland (or James I of England (1603–1625)), a disciple of the new scholarship, saw the first decisive adoption of Renaissance motifs in a free form communicated to England through German and Flemish carvers rather than directly from Italy. Although the general lines of Elizabethan design remained, there was a more consistent and unified application of formal design, both in plan and elevation. Much use was made of columns and pilasters, round-arch arcades, and flat roofs with openwork parapets. These and other classical elements appeared in a free and fanciful vernacular rather than with any true classical purity. With them were mixed the prismatic rustications and ornamental detail of scrolls, straps, and lozenges also characteristic of Elizabethan design. The style influenced furniture design and other decorative arts.\n\nReproductions of the classic orders had already found their way into English architecture during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I, frequently based upon John Shute's \"The First and Chief Grounds of Architecture\", published in 1563, with two other editions in 1579 and 1584. In 1577, three years before the commencement of Wollaton Hall, a copybook of the orders was brought out in Antwerp by Hans Vredeman de Vries. Although nominally based on the description of the orders by Vitruvius, the author indulged freely not only in his rendering of them, but in suggestions of his own, showing how the orders might be employed in various buildings. Those suggestions were of a most decadent type, so that even the author deemed it advisable to publish a letter from a canon of the Church, stating that there was nothing in his architectural designs that was contrary to religion. It is to publications of this kind that Jacobean architecture owes the perversion of its forms and the introduction of strap work and pierced crestings, which appear for the first time at Wollaton Hall (1580); at Bramshill House, Hampshire (1607–1612), and in Holland House, Kensington (1624), it receives its fullest development.\n\nHatfield House, built in its entirety by Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury, between 1607 and 1611, is an example of the later extension of the Elizabethan prodigy house, with turreted Tudor-style wings at each end with their mullioned windows but the two wings linked by an Italianate Renaissance facade. This central facade, originally an open loggia, has been attributed to Inigo Jones himself; however, the central porch carries a heavier quasi-gatehouse emphasis, so the attribution is probably false. Inside the house, the elaborately carved staircase demonstrates the Renaissance influence on English ornament.\n\nOther Jacobean buildings of note are Crewe Hall, Cheshire; Hatfield House, Hertfordshire; Knole House, near Sevenoaks in Kent; Charlton House in Charlton, London; Holland House by John Thorpe; Plas Teg near Pontblyddyn, between Wrexham and Mold in Wales; Bank Hall in Bretherton; Castle Bromwich Hall near Solihull; and Lilford Hall in Northamptonshire.\n\nAlthough the term is generally employed of the style which prevailed in England during the first quarter of the 17th century, its peculiar decadent detail will be found nearly twenty years earlier at Wollaton Hall, Nottingham, and in Oxford and Cambridge examples exist up to 1660, notwithstanding the introduction of the purer Italian style by Inigo Jones in 1619 at Whitehall.\n\nIn 1607 and 1620, England founded her first successful colonies: Jamestown, Virginia and Plymouth, Massachusetts. As with other settlers in the New World, the men and women that built the homes and buildings that formed the infrastructure of these towns and the others that followed over the coming century often built edifices that were consistent with Jacobean vernacular architecture in the portion of England that they originated from: for example, the clapboard common to houses in New England and later Nova Scotia to this day are derived from a local style of architecture popular in Northeast England in the early to mid 17th century. Historians often classify this architecture as a subtype of colonial American architecture, called First Period architecture, however there is an enormous amount of overlap between the architecture of the commoner class in early 17th century England and colonial America architecture, where some of the key features of the Jacobean era often outlived James I and VI owing to less contact between the American colonists and the fashions of England.\n\nWhen the Puritans arrived in the winter of 1620 in New England, there was very little time to waste owing to the bitterly cold weather and the fact that many of the occupants of the ship that brought them, the Mayflower, were very ill and needed to get into housing before circumstances could allow the diseases on board to spread further. Those that were still able bodied had to act quickly and as a result the first buildings of New England most resembled the wattle and daub cottages of the common people back home, especially of places like East Anglia and Devonshire, with the thatched roofs that remained common in England until the 1660s differing only in that the main material chosen for thatching was grass found in the local salt marshes. Most of these would have been hall and parlor dwellings with a simple central chimney, a feature of British architecture since the earlier Elizabethan era, a timber frame, a squat lower floor and an upper floor with bare beams and a space to be used for storage. Measurements of the archaeological remains of houses owned by Myles Standish and John Alden done in the mid nineteenth and the mid twentieth century in Duxbury, Massachusetts, a town across the harbor from Plymouth, also settled by the original Pilgrim Fathers, and inhabited just eight years later, reveal that the original homes were very narrow and small, averaging approximately forty feet long by fifteen feet wide. This concurs with the dimensions of houses that would have been found amongst the English commoner classes (specifically yeoman and small farmers) as evidenced by the surviving tax rolls of the Jacobean era.\n\nExamples of original Jacobean architecture in the Americas include Drax Hall Great House and St. Nicholas Abbey, both located in Barbados, and Bacon's Castle in Surry County, Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "250401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250401", "title": "Jakten på Odin", "text": "Jakten på Odin\n\nThe Search for Odin (Norwegian: \"Jakten på Odin\") is the project title of Thor Heyerdahl's last series of archaeological excavations, which took place in Azov (Tanais) in Russia.\n\nHeyerdahl's intention was to prove the veracity of the account of Snorri Sturluson in the Ynglinga saga, written in the 13th century, about the origin of the Norse royal dynasties, and the pre-Christian Norse gods. Snorri provides a euhemeristic account, in which he describes the Norse god Odin and some other Norse gods, the Æsir, as having been real people who emigrated from the area around the river Don to Scandinavia at the time of the Roman expansion into their old homeland. In Scandinavia, Snorri writes, they so impressed the native population that they started worshipping them as gods.\n\nHeyerdahl tried to seek the origins of the Æsir, following the route set out by Snorri Sturluson in the Ynglinga saga, from the Black Sea and the river Tanais (referred to by Snorri Sturluson by the names \"Tanaís\" and \"Tanakvísl\") via Saxon homelands in northern Germany, Odense on Fyn, Denmark to Old Sigtuna, ancient Sweden. When Heyerdahl died in 2002 the second season of excavations had just been finished.\n\nHeyerdahl's Odin project was subjected to fierce criticism from Norwegian academics within the fields of research upon which the theory touches. Both the first book detailing the Odin project, \"Ingen grenser\" from 1999, and the second book, \"Jakten på Odin\" from 2001, were met with a forceful and detailed response from leading academics in which the reasons were laid out to the wider public as to why Heyerdahl's theory in their view was false. After the last book the attacks against Heyerdahl were also worded in a way that by many was seen as disrespectful. The five leading academics responsible for the reviews explained that although popular literature would not normally be subject to such scrutiny, they felt it was necessary in this case, partly because Heyerdahl himself laid claim to academic credentials and partly due to his popularity.\n\nThe reviewers, speaking on behalf of the academic community of Norway, categorize Heyerdahl's theory as an example of pseudoarchaeology, based on a selective reading of sources, and a lack of understanding, or a lack of willingness to use basic scientific methodology. Much of the foundation of his theory, they point out, is based on similarities between names of figures from Norse mythology and geographical place-names of the present time in the Pontic steppe and Caucasus. Comparison of these names is done with disregard of linguistic theory, according to the reviewers.\n\nAzov is believed by Heyerdahl to have derived its name from \"as-hof\" – \"temple of the Æsir\". Mainstream linguists and historians will say that the city of Azov got its name from the Turks, over 1000 years after Heyerdahl believes the Æsir lived there. Heyerdahl also points to the similarities between the word Æsir and the Azeri and Ossetian peoples of the Caucasus, between the god Odin and the Caucasian language group Udi and between the god Tyr and Turkey, and between the Vanir (a group of Norse gods) and the word \"Vannic\", which was for a time in the 19th and 20th centuries the name used for the Urartian language, spoken in ancient times in the area around Lake Van.\n\nThe linguists and historians behind the review point out that there is no reason to believe that these similarities are any more than coincidences. In particular, they point out that Heyerdahl makes no attempt to look at the development of languages – he anachronistically compares modern day forms with ancient ones. For instance, diachronic linguists will say that the god Odin was called \"Wōdanaz\" 2,000 years ago, which no longer looks so similar to Udi. Similarly, they assert that his hypothesis fails to explain why there should be any relation whatever between antiquity/medieval Germanic names, and names that are to be attributed to extremely distant languages, if those be Indo-European at all (as Turkish and Caucasian languages have no relation whatever to Germanic, while Ossetic at least is Indo-European, although from the Indo-Iranian family). However, others like Swedish Professor Åke Daun say that the Turkic Huns were the ruling elite of the Goths.\n\n\nThe background for the project is described in two books, \"Ingen grenser\", 1999, Heyerdahl, Thor and Per Lillieström, Oslo: Stenersens forlag, and \"Jakten på Odin—På sporet av vår fortid\", 2001, Heyerdahl, Thor and Per Lillieström, Oslo: Stenersens forlag, .\n\n"}
{"id": "21204497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21204497", "title": "Joe Graham", "text": "Joe Graham\n\nAnthony Joseph \"Joe\" Graham (born 30 January 1944), is a Belfast-based Irish writer and historian. He founded \"Rushlight: The Belfast Magazine\" in 1972. \n\nJoe Graham was born in Belfast, the eighth of twelve children born to Jim and Kitty Graham. He was raised in what was then the newly built Ballymurphy housing estate in the west of the city. He attended St. John’s Public Elementary School and later St. Thomas's Secondary Intermediate School. One of his teachers was Michael McLaverty, who himself wrote stories (\"Call My Brother Back\") about the political troubles in Belfast. MacLaverty encouraged Graham to express himself in the written word, prompting Graham to write a number of short plays which were staged and performed locally in his own community. \nGraham's interest in writing and politics deepened.\n\nGraham's father, Jim, would take his son on bike rides and excursions across the length and breadth of County Antrim to ensure that Joe developed a clear knowledge of many of the historical events that occurred there – particularly the 1798 rebellion in which the Graham family played a prominent role: Watty Graham, an ancestor, was executed by the British in 1798.\n\nOn one excursion when Joe was only 12 years old, he and his father visited a graveyard situated in Mallusk, close to Templepatrick. At the back of the graveyard Joe looked at a tall monument erected to the memory of the famed James Hope. Right beside his grave was that of his son, Luke. Inscribed on Luke Hope’s grave was a word that caught the 12-year-old Joe’s eye – the word was \"Rushlight\". Luke Hope published his \"Rushlight\" on 3 December 1825, from Clark & Hope’s General Printing Office in High Street, in Belfast. It received the name Rushlight after a form of candle. However, the paper went out of print after 41 editions and Luke Hope died a young man.\n\nIn 1967, at the age of 23, Joe Graham became the editor of \"The Pike\", an Irish republican news sheet.\n\nHis involvement in \"The Pike\" gave Graham the opportunity to publish his views on such issues as the Special Powers Act and share his opinion with the local community. His interest in civil rights motivated his presence in Duke Street, Derry, on 5 October 1968 and on 4 January 1969 at the Burntollet Ambush, where marchers, many of whom were members of a student body named \"The People’s Democracy\", were physically assaulted by loyalists. In 1969, he became a founding member of the Belfast & District Civil Rights Group,The Ardoyne Citizen's Action Committee and The Belfast Housing Action Committee. These groups were established to address the need for the provision and improvement of housing in Catholic areas.\n\nGraham later established news sheets aimed at Irish republican activists in Ardoyne (\"The Ardoyne Freedom Fighter\"), Ballymurphy (\"Scale\"), and in the Falls Road area of Clonard (\"The Vindicator\"). \n\nIn 1972, Graham,the man published \"Rushlight - The Belfast Magazine\" for the first time. He shared the stories his father had originally shared with him as a boy as well as his own historical research and study. The magazine included articles of local interest, folklore, and tales of old Belfast. \"The Rushlight\" proved to be a staple part of Belfast literature with copies being forwarded by locals to relatives around the world, as well as copies being held in the Linen Hall Library Catalog, as well as at the Queen's University Library Catalogue, both in Belfast.\n\nIn May 2002, Joe Graham was awarded the \"Irish Hand\" for his \"continued and appreciated contribution of Rushlight Magazine to the Irish communities in Belfast, Brompton, Canada, and around the world\". In 2008, he wrote \"Show Me The Man – The Official Biography of Martin Meehan\".\n\n\nJoe Graham has been interviewed for or his work has been written of and/or reviewed by the following:\n\n\nHis work and knowledge of local Irish history has been listed as a source in the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "7098244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7098244", "title": "Johannes Nauclerus", "text": "Johannes Nauclerus\n\nJohannes Nauclerus (Naucler, Naukler) ( 1425 – May 1, 1510) was a 16th-century Swabian historian and humanist. He was born Johann Vergenhans to a noble (or knighted) man of the same name. As was the fashion of the time, the family's name had been Latinized, with \"nauclerus\", meaning \"skipper,\" being a close translation of \"Vergenhans\", meaning \"ferryman.\" The family's coat of arms depicted a man on a sailing ship.\n\nNauclerus became a doctor of law in 1450 and supervisor to Count Eberhard V of Württemberg. In 1460, he was head of the church in Stuttgart. He seems to have spent some time in Italy, and had contact with Pope Pius II. From 1464 to 1465 he taught at the University of Basel, and in 1466 he was in Rome.\n\nIn 1477 he became first rector at the University of Tübingen and subsequently its second chancellor.\n\nIn 1502, Nauclerus assumed the office of a judge of the Swabian League, which he held until the withdrawal of Württemberg from the federation in 1513.\n\nHe is the author of the \"World Chronicle\" (\"Memorabilium omnis aetatis et omnium gentium chronici commentarii\", 1516), printed posthumously, with its foreword written by Johann Reuchlin. The work chronicled the centuries from the time of Adam to the year 1500. This work did not follow the traditional temporal divisions of \"ages\" (\"aetates\") and \"realms\" (\"regna\"), but adhered to a division based on generations.\n\nWritten in Latin and on the suggestion of Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor, it described Biblical events, such as the building of the Tower of Babel, as well as events from Greek mythology, such as the Trojan War. Also included were historical events such as the burning of Girolamo Savonarola in Florence (1498).\n\nNauclerus consulted an unusually large number of different sources (such as an account by Eilmer of Malmesbury), indicating that he was already committed to the new spirit of humanism. Some of the sources he consulted no longer exist; their contents are only known through Nauclerus' work.\n\nThis work was known to Ortelius through Franciscus Irenicus. Erasmus also wrote a laudatory foreword.\n\nOther works include his \"Tractatus de symonia perutilis\" (Tübingen, 1500).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38190280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38190280", "title": "John Blair (priest)", "text": "John Blair (priest)\n\nJohn Blair FRS, FSA (died 24 June 1782), was a British clergyman, and chronologist.\n\nHe was born and educated in Edinburgh. \nLeaving Scotland as a young man, he became usher of a school in Hedge Lane, London, in succession to Andrew Henderson, author of a well-known history of the rebellion of 1745.\n\nIn 1754, he published, 'The Chronology and History of the World, from the Creation to the Year of Christ 1753, illustrated in fifty-six tables.' \nIt was dedicated to the lord chancellor (Hardwicke), and was published by subscription. \nIn the preface he acknowledged great obligations to the Earl of Bute.\nThe plan and scope of the work originated with Dr. Hugh Blair's scheme of chronological tables. The 'Chronology' was reprinted in 1756, 1768, and 1814. \nIt was revised and enlarged 'by Willoughby Rosse in Bohn's 'Scientific Library,' 1856. \nIn 1768, Blair published 'Fourteen Maps of Ancient and Modern Geography, for the illustration of the Tables of Chronology and History ; to which is prefixed a dissertation on the Rise and Progress of Geography.' The dissertation was separately republished in 1784.\n\nBlair's first book was well received. In 1755 he was elected a fellow of the Royal Society, and in its 'Transactions' appeared a paper by him on the 'Agitation of the Waters near Reading'\n\nHe had previously obtained orders in the church of England, and in September 1757 was appointed chaplain to Princess Augusta of Saxe-Gotha and mathematical tutor to the Prince Edward, Duke of York and Albany. \nIn March 1761, on the promotion of Dr. Townshend to the deanery of Norwich, Blair was given a prebendal stall at Westminster. \nWithin a week the dean and chapter of Westminster presented him to the vicarage of Hinckley. \nIn the same year he was chosen fellow of the Society of Antiquaries. \nIn September 1763 he left with the Duke of York on a tour on the continent, and was absent until 1764. In 1771 he was transferred, by presentation of the dean and chapter of Westminster, to the vicarage of St. Bride, London, and again to the rectory of St. John the Evangelist, Westminster, in April 1776. \nHe was also rector of Horton (Milton's Horton) in Buckinghamshire. \nHe died on 24 June 1782.\n\nBlair's 'Lectures on the Canons of the Old Testament, comprehending a Dissertation on the Septuagint Version,' 1785, was a posthumous publication.\n\n"}
{"id": "31506827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31506827", "title": "José Gerson da Cunha", "text": "José Gerson da Cunha\n\nJosé Gerson da Cunha (2 February 1844 – 3 August 1900) was a Goan physician who achieved international renown as an orientalist, historian, linguist and numismatist.\n\nJosé Gerson da Cunha was born in Arpora, Bardez on 2 February 1844, the eldest of twelve children to a Goan Catholic couple, Francisco Caetano da Cunha and Leopoldina Maria Gonçalves. Francisco was an infantry lieutenant in the Portuguese army stationed in Goa who had taken part in the military campaign against the Marathas at Uspa and Rarim in Savantvadi. The family traced its descent to Balkrishna Shenoy, also known as \"Balsa Sinai\"; a 16th-century Goud Saraswat Brahmin from Cortalim in Salcette. Upon his employment by the Portuguese authorities in 1555, Balkrishna moved to Pilerne in Bardez with his two nephews Mangappa and Panduranga Shenoy. There he converted to Christianity and adopted the surname \"Cunha\". He later settled down in Arpora. His conversion had been preceded by that of his nephew Mangappa who changed his name to Pero Ribeiro and earned the distinction of being the first Christian of Bardez.\n\nCunha did his primary studies and study of humanities in Panjim. He then moved to Bombay and enrolled in the Grant Medical College to pursue his medical studies. While there, Cunha distinguished himself by winning many prizes. However, he failed to obtain his licentiate in Medicine, and instead obtained the first degree of Licentiate of the University of Bombay in 1864. He moved to London in 1867 to obtain his degree and in the same year, obtained the diplomas of L.R.C.P. Lond. and M.R.C.S Eng. Cunha specialised in obstetrics at Edinburgh and London. He returned to Bombay in 1868, where he soon acquired a large practice.\n\nCunha wrote several papers on obstetrics which attracted much attention at the Medico-Physical Society of Bombay. After an epidemic of dengue in the city, he wrote an essay on dengue entitled \"Dengue: its history, symptoms and treatment\". Besides medicine, Cunha's interest spanned across diverse subjects such as history, archaeology, linguistics, numismatics and Sanskritology (study of Sanskrit). He wrote and distinguished himself more by creating works of historical value on these subjects. Besides papers, he was the author of 20 books on these subjects. His decision to write his works in English gained him greater recognition amongst English readers than those Goan authors who had chosen to write on these subjects only in Portuguese.\n\nCunha wrote the first book on the history of Bombay, \"The Origin of Bombay\" which was published posthumously by the Bombay branch of the Royal Asiatic Society in 1900. His other best known historical works include \"Memoir on the history of the tooth-relic of Ceylon\"; with a preliminary essay on Gautama Buddha \"The life and system of Gautama Buddha\" (1875), \"Historical and Archeological Sketch of the Island of Angediva\" (1875), and \"The History and Antiquities of Chaul and Bassein\" (1876).\n\nCunha was inspired by the Portuguese civil servant Joaquim Heliodoro da Cunha Rivara's efforts to revive Konkani in Goa. In 1881, he wrote a scholarly work on the language entitled \"The Konkani Language and Literature\", wherein he discussed its origin and issues. Using the arguments of the Language theory, he demonstrated that Konkani was an independent language in its own right with its own dialects, such as \"Kudali\", \"Goadesi\" and the Southern. Cunha concluded that while Konkani bears close similarities to Marathi, it is quite distinct from, through cognate with Marathi and has a predominance of Sanskrit words and a faint Turanian or Dravidian element. It possesses an elaborate grammar of its own and a rich vocabulary which is derived from various sources (Sanskrit, Persian, Kannada and Portuguese, with all the contributing elements having lost their autonomy in the course of time and becoming so fused together that only a careful analysis can discover their etymology.\n\nCunha was greatly concerned with the increasing corruption of Konkani's purity, as he felt that the incorporation of Portuguese, Persian, Kannada and Marathi loanwards were distancing the language from its original source, Sanskrit. He further had serious misgivings about the language's future. In \"The Konkani Language and Literature\", he states:\nCunha was an avid coin collector. He began collecting coins in 1876 and in addition to his own collection, purchased the collections of James Gibbs and Bhau Dhaji. By 1888, his personal collection had expanded to include over 27,000 pieces of Gold, Silver and other baser metals. The collection of coins catalogued by Cunha was generally believed to be among the best in the British Empire. This catalogue was published in Bombay in 1888. He wrote a book on numismatics, \"Indo-Portuguese Numismatics\" which was published in 1956 by \"Agencia Geral do Ultramar\" in Lisbon. This work is generally believed to be one of the few valuable studies in this field.\n\nIn view of his work, Cunha acquired significant fame as an Orientalist and was invited to International seminars and conferences. In addition to his affiliation with various medical associations in Bombay, his prolific contributions to Indian history and linguistics earned him the fellowship of the \"Instituto Vasco da Gama\" in Goa in 1871, and of the Royal Asiatic Society of Bombay in 1873. He received a price at the Congress of Orientalists in Florence in 1877, and was a prominent figure at the Twelfth Congress held in Rome in 1899. In the latter conference, Cunha was hailed by the Count Angelo de Gubernatis as the \"leading Orientalist of the day\". He served as the President of the Bombay chapters of the Royal Asiatic Society and the Anthropological Society. He was a Knight of the Order of the Crown of Italy, of the Order of St. Gregory the Great, and of the Order of Saint James of the Sword.\n\nCunha was married to Ana Rita da Gama, daughter of António José da Gama, knight of the Order of the Immaculate Conception of Vila Viçosa, by decree of 5 September 1861, retired chief surgeon of Goa. The couple had three children; which included two daughters and one son. The eminent lawyer, jurist and orientalist Luís da Cunha Gonçalves (1875–1956) was a nephew of Cunha, through his sister Leocádia Maria Francisca. He was a hyperpolyglot, possessing knowledge of Konkani, Marathi, Portuguese, Italian, French, English, German, Pahlavi, Persian, Latin and Sanskrit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35423251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35423251", "title": "Kurds in Iraq", "text": "Kurds in Iraq\n\nKurds in Iraq () are people born in or residing in Iraq who are of Kurdish origin. The Kurds are the largest ethnic minority in Iraq, comprising between 15% and 20% of the country's population according to the CIA World Factbook.\n\nThe Kurdish people within Iraq have grappled with various political statuses over their history. Once assumed to receive full independence via the Treaty of Sèvres, Iraqi Kurds have experienced a recent and troubled history of betrayal, oppression, and genocide. After the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime in 2003, Iraqi Kurds, now governed by the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), face a crossroads in the political trajectory of Iraqi Kurdistan. Factors that play into their future include Kurdish diversity and factions, Kurdish relationships with the United States, Iraq's central government, and neighboring countries, previous political agreements, disputed territories, and Kurdish ethnonationalism.\n\nThe Kurdish people are an ethnic group whose origins are in the Middle East. They are one of the largest ethnic groups in the world that do not have a state of their own. This geo-cultural region means \"Land of the Kurds\". Iraqi Kurdistan is an autonomous region in northern Iraq, covering and has a population of approximately 5.8 million people. Kurdish populations occupy the territory in and around the Zagros mountains. These arid unwelcoming mountains have been a geographic buffer to cultural and political dominance from neighboring empires. Persians, Arabs, and Ottomans were kept away, and a space was carved out to develop Kurdish culture, language, and identity.\n\nAccording to Michael M. Gunter, the Kurds are thought by some scholars to be the descendants of various Indo-European tribes that arrived the region about 4,000 years ago. Arabs applied the name \"Kurds\" to the people of the mountains after they had conquered and Islamicized the region. In the 1500s most Kurds fell under Ottoman Rule. Iraqi Kurds developed as a subgroup of the Kurdish peoples when Great Britain created the state of Iraq out of the Sykes–Picot Agreement of World War I. The Kurdish people were expecting to soon gain independence from what they were promised in the Treaty of Sèvres in 1920, but this was quickly overturned in 1923, when the Treaty of Lausanne established the Republic of Turkey over Kurdistan's borders.\n\nThe Kurdish Democratic Party (KDP) was founded in 1946 by Mulla Mustafa Barzani and pushed for Kurdish autonomy under the Iraqi government. In 1975, another political party emerged in Iraqi Kurdistan, led by Jalal Talabani—the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK). Since the PUK was established, it lacked cooperation and engaged in violent conflict with the KDP over differing philosophies, demographics, and goals.\n\nAfter the Gulf War and unsuccessful Kurdish uprising in 1991, Kurds fled back to the mountains to seek refuge from the Hussein regime. The United States established a safe-haven and no fly zone initiative in Iraqi Kurdistan for the Kurds in order for them to develop an asylum away from the Hussein regime. United Nations Security Council Resolution 688 in 1991 condemned and forbade \"the repression of the Iraqi civilian population... in Kurdish populated areas.\" After many bloody encounters, an uneasy balance of power was reached between the Iraqi forces and Kurdish troops, ultimately allowing Iraqi Kurdistan to function independently. The region continued to be ruled by the KDP and PUK and began to establish a stable economy and national identity. Iraqi Kurdistan built a socioeconomic infrastructure from scratch, completely independent from the centralized framework for the Baath regime. Though civil war broke out in the north between Barzani's Kurdistan Democratic Party and Talabani's Patrioutic Union of Kurdistan from 1994 to 1998, Kurds were still able to maintain a democratic and prosperous foundation for their region.\n\nWhen the US invaded to oust the Hussein regime in 2003, the northern Kurdish border with Iraqi central state was moved considerably southward. This gave Kurds more access to water and oil resources, therefore increasing priorities within the region to establish steady relations with the Kurds. This new access also encouraged more investment within the region, softening political tensions and polarization.\n\nBefore the spread of Islam, many Kurds were followers of Zoroastrianism, Mithraism, or local pagan beliefs. Kurds were assimilating these religious practices into their cultural domain as early as 800 BCE. Arab conquests, however, began in the seventh century AD, eventually overpowering Kurdish resistance. Over time, Sunni Islam became the dominant religion of the Kurdish people, following the Shafi school. There is a minority Shia population, 99% of the Fayli Kurds and 99% of shabak kurds Muslim is shia, who live in central and south eastern Iraq. Though Islam is thought to be a religion of governance as well as spirituality, Kurds made sure to keep spiritual identity separate from national identity. Today, many Muslim Kurds do not consider themselves particularly religious when it comes to adhering to the call to prayer five times a day, but secondary practices of Islam have a stronghold in Kurdish culture. Following Islamic food restrictions, refraining from the consumption of alcohol, circumcising male newborns, and wearing a veil are all very popular customs among Kurds.\n\nA minority of Kurds, primarily in the Nineveh Province of Iraq, follow the Yazidism. Yazidism combines complex Kurdish cultural beliefs with Zoroastrianism and Islamic Sufi doctrine. It applies traditions of the Abrahamic religions such as the story of Adam and Eve, the importance of pilgrimage, and daily prayer ritual, to more mystical elements, focusing on the importance of ancestry and the four elements on the Earth. The religion is practiced in the Kurdish dialect of northern Iraqi Kurdistan, Kirmaji. Most Yazidi traditions are transmitted orally rather than through written text, making it difficult to source many Yazidi origins.\n\nLanguage has been foundational to the building of a national identity in Iraqi Kurdistan, for the vast majority of Kurdish peoples speak Kurdish. Kurdish belongs to the Iranian language group and is rooted in the Indo-European family of languages. Sorani and Kirmanji are the main two Kurdish dialects, so internal language factions are not common. Kirmanji was the favored dialect up until the World Wars, but by the 1960s Sorani became the dominant dialect among Iranian and Iraqi Kurds. A problem among Kurdish people is that they do not have a unified script for their language. Iranian and Iraqi Kurds have modified the Perso-Arabic alphabet, and Turkish Kurds use a Latinized alphabet. This creates unity within modern political borders but strains relations and effective communications transnationally. This lack of unity in scripture parallels Kurdish cultural history, for isolated Kurdish mountain tribes were often nomadic and therefore had a very limited written tradition.\n\nAfter political changes in Iraq in the 1990s, however, Kurdish was increasingly used in the regional administration and education system, given their greater autonomy.\n\nA major weakness of Kurdish national cohesiveness has been the strength of tribal and regional factions, often resulting in strong breaks between political parties. The Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP), founded by Masoud Barzani, leans toward conservative nationalism and has a strong presence in the north. Given their geographic location, they have historically relied on Turkey for international leverage. Jalal Talabani's Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK) has aligned itself with Marxist ideals during their liberation struggle and has a stronghold in the southern Iraqi Kurdistan. They have tended to seek support from Iran and Syria. Throughout the 1990s a continuous power struggle ensued over political representation in parliament and oil revenues, resulting in an armed conflict in 1994. Fighting again broke out in 1996, when the KDP looked for assistance from the central Iraqi government and the PUK sought out support for the United States. This clash divided the two rival zones into \"Barzanistan\" and \"Talabanistan\", establishing two administrations, cabinets, parliaments, and state flags. Political party infighting ruined a chance for the Kurdish peoples to unify and establish an autonomous state, completely separate from the Iraqi central government. Within a factionalized atmosphere, other groups established a presence, such as the Turkey-based Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), radical Islamist groups, and other Turkish political groups. The PKK has been a major radical party seeking state autonomy and cultural, linguistic, and ethnic rights in Turkey.\n\nKurdish leaders in Iraq have pushed for the prosperity of divided local governments rather than an independent state; this is because leadership is derived from tribal legitimacy, rather than political institutions. Talabani and Barzani, for instance, did not come from the most populous Kurdish tribe, but rather from well-organized tribes. This could be an inhibitor to democracy in the region since those trying to preserve the status quo hold power but do not represent the majority.\n\nFrom 1986 to the present, Turkey has held different alliances with the KDP and PUK parties of Iraqi Kurdistan. Turkey has protected and armed the KDP from the PKK and PUK. They have also attacked these political parties, but held relations with the KDP, partially for access to cheap Iraqi oil. The KDP holds the representation of tribes along the Turkish border, so favorable relations with them ensures trading for Iraqi goods. Turkey then shifted its relationships to favor the PUK party. Since this party sat in the southern region of northern Iraq, it had stronger relations with the central Iraqi government.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, when Kurds were given regional control after the Gulf War and a no-fly zone was established, a stronger Kurdish identity began to form. This has stemmed from increased international support and the pull-out of the Iraqi central government from Iraqi Kurdistan. The Kurdish language crossed over into the public sphere, taught and spoken in schools, universities, the adminitation, and the media. There has also been an influx of national symbols, including the Kurdish flag, a Kurdish hymn, and public recognition of the Kurdish people.\n\nDevelopment of Kurdish instrastructure has also become an integral aspect of their successful autonomy. Previously dependent on the socioeconomic instrastucure of Baghdad, Kurds were able to efficiently build up their region, physically and politically, from scratch. They built a fully functioning independent government autonomous from the Baath regime. They were able to manage local governments, establish free and active Kurdish political parties, and institutionalze a Kurdish parliament. With these developments, the de facto Kurdish government gained recognition for the first time in the international sphere. They have quasi-official representation in Turkey, Iran, France, Britain, and the United States.\n\nThough Kurdish people had success forming a national identity, there have been factors that have stunted its growth. Under the state of Iraq, Kurds were subjugated to the nationalism process for all Iraqis, given the arbitrary state lines. Kurds were starting to think of themselves as Iraqis, rather than focus on their collective development as Kurds. Nationalism was also hindered by divisions of tribes, languages, and geography that prevented the Kurdish people from identifying completely as one unit. No leader has yet to rise above this tribal status and the infighting hurts those fighting for Kurdish autonomy because they are divided by other factions or political boundaries. For example, during the Iran–Iraq War, from 1980 to 1988, Turkey supported one Iraqi Kurdish group over another in order to play the Iraqi Kurds off against Turkey's own rebellious Kurds.\n\nTechnology and telecommunications have helped Kurds to establish an ethno-national group, or self-defined national identity. Though this has developed a sense of pride and definition across political boundaries, it reveals a less promising scenario of Kurdish statehood. It has disclosed disparities across countries about which Kurdish populations are gaining international support and relief. For Iraqi Kurds, this international network was established after the Gulf War of 1991. They had new forms of financial and political support as well as the resources and the legal geographic space to advance their nationalist agenda. This access allowed Kurdish language publications, texts, educational programs, and cultural organizations to flourish—benefits that Kurds only were experiencing within the state of Iraq and in European academic institutions. Transnational social and cultural networks for Kurds were still tied to characteristics of certain states.\n\nWith a Kurdish diaspora, legitimizing a Kurdish state is even more unlikely. Many Turkish Kurds have migrated outside of their historic homeland in the southeast of Turkey, westward for more prosperous lives. Turkish Kurds have also come to an agreement with the Turkish government. Since the capture of their leader Abdullah Ocalan in 1999, Kurds have limited their activism to fighting for cultural, social and educational rights within the state of Turkey. Due to Turkey's pending EU application, Turkey has been moving to grant these rights. With this improved relationship, Turkish Kurds have accepted their place within the Turkish state. This is just one instance of how Kurds are focusing on improving their livelihood within already established state lines rather than pushing for a restructuring of political borders in the Middle East. Though Iraqi Kurds have the greatest opportunity to push for autonomy because of the Iraqi state's government restructuring, Kurds in neighboring countries do not have the leverage to push for the independence that would threaten pre existing states.\n\nEven at a cross-roads for the political future of Iraqi Kurds, Barzani and Talabani have both opted for establishing a federalist system within post-Saddam Iraq in order to insure the future wellbeing of the Kurdish people.\n\nOn 1 July 2014, Massud Barzani announced that \"Iraq's Kurds will hold an independence referendum within months.\" After previously opposing the independence for Iraqi Kurdistan, Turkey has later given signs that it could recognize an independent Kurdish state. On 11 July 2014 KRG forces seized control of the Bai Hassan and Kirkuk oilfields, prompting a condemnation from Baghdad and a threat of \"dire consequences,\" if the oilfields were not relinquished back to Iraq's control.\n\nThe US invaded Iraq in order to take down Saddam Hussein's regime and dissolve any threats of weapons of mass destruction.Although after invasion, no evidence of mass destruction weapons has been found to prove US claim. After the fall of the regime, the United States government, with the help of ethnic leaders had to confront three issues: the nature of the future Iraqi government, how Shia representation was to be achieved in the government, and how Sunni re-enfranchisement was to be managed. Different opinions emerged on whether the Iraqi government should be centralized or not, how the US should respond to civil conflict between the Arabs and Kurds, and how previous promises to the Kurdish and Iraqi people would be achieved in a future state.\nKurdish people have played an important role in Iraqi state building since the United States invaded in 2003. Many Kurds seek to build an autonomous federal state in the post-Huessein era, however, a solution for Kurdish problems in Iraq was not even mentioned in the 2004 UN resolution that established Iraq's interim government.\n\nArticle 140 of the 2005 Iraqi constitution vowed to place disputed areas under the jurisdiction of the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) by the end of 2007. The three phases that were going to aid this process were normalization, census, and referendum. The normalization phase was supposed to undo the 'Arabization' policies Kurds faced from 1968 to 2003 that were designed to alter the demographic in the city of Kirkuk and other disputed areas to favor the Arab population. These policies included deportation, displacement, house demolition, and property confiscation. Institutionalized boundaries as a result of past gerrymandering were also to be reversed. After this normalization process, a census would talk place and the populous would choose to be governed by either the KRG or Baghdad.\n\nArticle 140 was not implemented by 2007. At this time the Presidency Council also recommended to reattach all previously detached districts of Kirkuk. The Chemchamal and Kalar districts that were allocated to Suleimaniya governorate in 1976 were to be retrnutned to Kirkuk. Kifri, annexed to Diyala governorate in 1976 was to be rettached, although it has been under Kurdish control since 1991. Lastly, the Tuz district would be rettached from the Salah ad-Din district. In 2008, the 140 Committee announced inaction on these initiatives.\n\nIn 2008, the Iraqi, Kurdish and US governments came to the consensus that these types of reparations to the Kurdish people would not be able to be carried out without further negotiations and political agreements on boundaries.\n\nDisputed internal boundaries have been a core concern for Arabs and Kurds, especially since US invasion and political restructuring in 2003. Kurds gained territory to the south of Iraqi Kurdistan after the US-led invasion in 2003 to regain what land they considered historically theirs.\n\nOne of the major problems in trying to implement Article 140 was a discrepancy in the definition of 'disputed area'. The article only refers to regions that would go through this normalization process as \"Kirkuk and other disputed area\". In 2003 Kursdish negotiator Mahmud Othman suggested that Kurdish majority areas below the Green line be attached to the KRG immediately, and 'mixed areas' should be questioned on a case-by-case basis. Sunnis felt as if Kurds should gain no additional land as a result of the US invasion. Reattaching Kirkuk districts to reflect the 1975 boundaries posed many problems to Iraqis and brought along unintended consequences.\n\nThe US government faced many problems trying to implement Article 140. This was not an ideal form of reparation for many Kurds. After being displaced, many formerly Kurdish regions lacked in development and agricultural upkeep. Educational and economic opportunities were often greater for Kurds outside of these disputed territories, so many people did not want to be forced to return.\n\nDuring the 2014 Northern Iraq offensive, Iraqi Kurdistan seized the city of Kirkuk and the surrounding area, as well as most of the disputed territories in Northern Iraq.\n"}
{"id": "29620380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29620380", "title": "List of 20th-century writers", "text": "List of 20th-century writers\n\nThis is a partial list of 20th-century writers. This list includes notable artists, authors, philosophers, playwrights, poets, scientists and other important and noteworthy contributors to literature. Literature (from Latin \"litterae\" (plural); letters) is the art of written works. Literally translated, the word \"literature\" means \"acquaintance with letters\" (as in the \"arts and letters\"). The two most basic written literary categories include fiction and non fiction.\n"}
{"id": "36568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36568", "title": "List of archaeological and artistic sites of Sardinia", "text": "List of archaeological and artistic sites of Sardinia\n\nThis is a list of archaeological and artistic sites of Sardinia, Italy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6173731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6173731", "title": "Léopold Genicot", "text": "Léopold Genicot\n\nLéopold Genicot (Forville 18 March 1914 - Ottignies 11 May 1995) was a Belgian medieval historian.\n\nLéopold Genicot was born in Forville, Belgium, in 1914. After earning his BA in political economics, he worked as an archivist for nine years in the Namur branch of the Royal Archives from 1935 to 1944. During that time, he obtained a PhD in history in 1937. His work at the archives also allowed him to hide escaped prisoners during the World War II.\n\nIn 1935, he was offered a position as professor at the Catholic University of Leuven and received a tenure there in 1947. He taught historical critics, methodology, Belgian history and Middle Age history. In his research, he was particularly interested in the Walloon history (Wallonia, Histoire de la Wallonie). He created and directed the Centre d'Histoire rurale et de l'Institut interfacultaire d'Etudes médiévales.\n\nHis contribution to the Middle-age history is well known, and his books and articles are used today in many medieval history classes (, ).\n\nIn 1972, for the Belgian scholarly press, Genicot directed \"Brepols,\" a series of lengthy bibliographical essays/monographs, \"Typologie des Sources du Moyen Age Occidental\" to serve a scholarly base of medievalists ranging from graduate students to professors. This series of books has been one of the most successful collections of introductory and bibliographical aids ever introduced to the academic community. By publishing three to four titles a year, the series has steadily grown to seventy-eight volumes, covering everything from necrological documents to Latin treatises on the virtues and vices, from astronomy to arms and armor. \n\nIn 1964, he received the \"Guaillarde d'Argent\". In 1982, he received an honorary degree from the Catholic University of Lublin (KUL) . In 1988, he received the prize \"Personnalité Richelieu\" \n\nHe was the father of the architectural historian Luc-Francis Genicot (1938-2007), and the great uncle of Garance Genicot.\n\nHe was a strong advocate of Wallonia and the \"Rénovation wallonne\" and affiliated with the \"Rassemblement wallon\". Candidate to the European elections, his position on the Walloon problems became more radical over time. \n\nSee , , .\n\n\nAs editor:\n\n"}
{"id": "55360429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55360429", "title": "Mantle (royal garment)", "text": "Mantle (royal garment)\n\nA royal mantle, or more simply a mantle, is a garment normally worn by emperors, kings or queens as a symbol of authority. When worn at a coronation such mantles may be referred to as a coronation mantle. Many princes also wear such a mantle. Sometimes the mantles are worn only once, but in some instances they may be worn or used at other occasions such as during the opening of a session of the nation's legislature. Mantles also feature prominently in state portraiture and artwork featuring monarchs and princes.\n\nBetween the mantles of an emperor and king in principle there is no difference. Different countries have their own style and shape of the mantle has changed somewhat over the centuries. The oldest coats were not very long and they were not lined with fur. In the 18th century we see that cloaks become more like each other and appear everywhere in Europe. The French example was lined with fur and a cloak with a long train became standard. Only the German emperors continued their short coat from the 12th century to the end of their empire.\n\nThe non crowned but inaugurated Dutch kings wear a robe on the French model. In the Netherlands, one can not speak of a coronation mantle but use the term \"royal robe.\" ( (Dutch phonetic: γoningsmant∂l).\nrinces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1327436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1327436", "title": "Maspeth, Queens", "text": "Maspeth, Queens\n\nMaspeth is a residential and commercial community in the borough of Queens in New York City. It was founded in the early 17th century by Dutch and English settlers. Neighborhoods sharing borders with Maspeth are Woodside to the north; Sunnyside to the northwest; Greenpoint, Brooklyn to the west; East Williamsburg, Brooklyn to the southwest; Fresh Pond and Ridgewood to the south; and Middle Village and Elmhurst to the east.\n\nThe name \"Maspeth\" is derived from the name of Mespeatches Indians, one of the 13 main Indian tribes that inhabited Long Island. It is translated to mean \"at the bad waterplace\" relating to the many stagnant swamps that existed in the area.\n\nThe area known today as Maspeth was chartered by New Netherlanders and British settlers in the early 17th century. The Dutch had purchased land in the area known today as Queens in 1635, and within a few years began chartering towns. In 1642, they settled Maspat, under a charter granted to Rev. Francis Doughty, making Maspeth the first English settlement in Queens; the deed that was signed between the Native Americans and the settlers was the first one signed on Long Island. As part of the deed's signature, the \"Newtown Patent\" granted to settlers. Conflicts with the Maspat tribe forced many settlers to move to what is now Elmhurst in 1643. The settlement was leveled the following year in an attack by Native Indians, and the surviving settlers returned to Manhattan.\n\nIn 1652, settlers ventured back to the area, settling an area slightly inland from the previous Maspat location. This new area was called Middleburg, and eventually developed into what is now Elmhurst, bordering Maspeth. Originally, 28 English Quakers had founded the village of Maspeth, which had sizable water and milling industries along Newtown Creek and Maspeth Creek. Two storekeepers, Nathanial Hazard and Francis T. White, sold food and clothes at the Maspeth Town Docks, at what is now 56th Terrace and Rust Street, by the late 18th century. After the American Revolutionary War, villagers repaved roads with crushed oyster shells or wooden planks.\n\nColumbusville was the name formerly applied to a section of Maspeth. It was a development of Edward Dunn that took place on 69th Place (originally known as Firth Avenue) between Grand Avenue and Caldwell Avenue during 1854–55, and was subsequently absorbed into Maspeth. The name fell into disuse in the 1890s.\n\nFollowing waves of immigration during the 19th century, Maspeth was home to a shanty town of Boyash (Ludar) Gypsies between 1925 and 1939, though this was eventually bulldozed.\n\nThe area consisting of 43rd Street through 58th Street, including the former Furman Island, is industrial lowlands, and from 60th Street to 74th Street is residential. The Phelps Dodge Corporation was present from 1920 to 1983, during which matter from their premises contaminated Newtown Creek, which separates northern Brooklyn from western Queens and serves barge traffic. In the 2000s, politicians started to make efforts to clean up the Newtown and Maspeth Creeks. Freight train traffic moves on the Long Island Rail Road Montauk Branch and the lightly-used Bushwick Branch, both of which are used by the LIRR, New York and Atlantic Railway, and Conrail; in addition, the LIRR Bay Ridge Branch, a freight-only railway branch, separates the neighborhood from Elmhurst and Middle Village. A new West Maspeth rail freight station has been proposed in connection with a Cross-Harbor Rail Tunnel to diminish truck traffic across New York City. It is opposed by residents who do not want more trucks in Maspeth.\n\nThe Elmhurst gas tanks were formerly located in the area and were demolished in 2001. The Maspeth gas tanks were also located in the area until they were demolished.\n\nSingle and multi-family dwellings make up most of Maspeth as there are few apartment buildings, except for the Ridgewood Gardens co-ops along 65th Place. Houses in Maspeth range from 400–600 thousand dollars. One particularly notable group of houses in the area is a cluster of 2- and 3-story orange and yellow brick buildings located between Grand Avenue, 79th Street, and Calamus Avenue; they were made for the Mathews Company and built in 1930 by Louis Allmendinger.\n\nMuch of the area's commerce is situated along Grand Avenue.\n\nCemeteries take up another large part of this small neighborhood, although they are separated from residential areas for the most part. The Mount Olivet Cemetery, the largest cemetery in the neighborhood, is located on a high hill in Maspeth and used to be an outer-borough vacation site. Mount Olivet Cemetery was planned on March 26, 1850, when James Maurice held a meeting at his Maspeth house to discuss the formation of the cemetery. Notable interments in the cemetery include cosmetics magnate Helena Rubinstein Courielli and sixteen victims of the 1911 Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire.\n\nThe neighborhood, which is nearly isolated by the industrial areas and cemeteries surrounding it, is described by some residents as having a small-town feeling. It is bisected by the Long Island Expressway (locally known as the LIE), though the two parts of Maspeth are connected by several crossings across the expressway. There are many community organizations, which have, among other things, preserved the neighborhood's small-town-like character; for example, they blocked the construction of a Home Depot at the site of what is now the Elmhurst Park.\n\nThe Maspeth Town Hall community center is located on 72nd Street. A one-room schoolhouse between 1897 and 1932, it was then occasionally used by a local girls' club and the Works Progress Administration until 1936. It was a New York City Police Department precinct until 1971. The building was renovated and made into a community center in 1972.\n\nOther neighborhood institutions include the local Chamber of Commerce, the Lions Club, and the Maspeth Federal Savings Bank.\n\nA September 11 memorial has been erected at 69th Street and Grand Avenue to commemorate the local FDNY Squad 288 and HAZMAT 1 firehouse's casualties from the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center, which were the largest of any FDNY unit. The monument, adjacent to the LIE, faces the World Trade Center site, where the One World Trade Center can be seen. An annual memorial ceremony is held at the monument on September 11. The Walk of Honor, unveiled on Memorial Day 2006, is also in the square, and honors activists and visionaries who lived in the area.\n\nPublic parks, operated by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, include the Frontera Park at 69th Street and the LIE, as well as Principe Park at Maurice and 54th Avenues.\n\nThe smallest park in New York City, Luke J. Lang Square, is located at the triangle caused by the intersection of Fresh Pond Road, 59th Road, and 61st Street. The park, which honors a local resident who died in World War I, occupies of land. Luke J. Lang Square consists of hedges, but formerly contained \"a flagpole, several benches, and three Norway maples.\" Another very small park, Garlinge Triangle at Grand and 57th Avenues, honors other residents who died in World War I. It is named after Private Walter A. Garlinge, the first Maspeth resident to die during the war.\n\nMaspeth is also home to the Metropolitan Oval, a playing field for soccer players, which contains a view of the Manhattan skyline.\n\nAt Grand Avenue and the LIE, a plaque to \"Horse Cars Rest Stop\" exists. There used to be a horse cart barn at Brown Place, one block east of Grand Avenue. It is now Peter Charles Park, a small pocket park. When the LIE was built in the 1950s, it also demolished many streets; the construction of the LIE left many small triangular plazas behind, such as at 57th Road and 73rd Place, where the \"Quick Brown Fox Park\", another pocket park, is located. The park is named after a story about a quick brown fox.\n\nA sign at the intersection of Flushing, Grand, and Maspeth Avenues marks the place where streetcar lines (now the bus routes) used to split.\n\nOn the front yard of the Church of the Transfiguration on Perry Avenue, a replica of a Lithuanian roadside shrine has stood since 1981.\n\nSt. Saviour’s Church, built in 1847 at Rust Street and 57th Drive, was located on land formerly owned by lawyer and politician James Maurice. After a 1970 arson, it was cleaned up. However, by 2005, developers bought the church in order to demolish it, since the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission had refused to landmark the church. This was largely opposed; however, its facade was torn apart, disassembled, and stored at All Faiths Cemetery by 2008. Despite community effort, led by the Juniper Park Civic Association, to make a park on the site, by 2011, the church's former site had become warehouses, while provisions for a new site for the church in All Faiths Cemetery had been approved.\n\nThe Ridgewood Gardens apartment/co-op complex, on a hill known as the Ridgewood Plateau, was built on woods owned by James Maurice and donated to the Episcopal Church in 1850. Maurice Woods was bounded by Maurice Avenue, Jay Avenue, 66th Street, and Borden Avenue. 53rd Avenue went down a slope to 64th Street. The apartment complex was built later. It is notable for a step street that descends the hill, as well as for a very old, graffiti-covered lamppost on that street.\n\nJames Maurice used to live at a home at 1 Hill Street. It was sold in 1909.\n\nThe house where Anton Fausner’s wheelwright and wagonmaker’s shop was located is on Grand Avenue just south of the LIE. Later, an auto shop, Maspeth Auto Parts, was located in that building. In 2006, that house was torn down and replaced by a bank. The wheelwright was patronized by farmers from Long Island who stayed at the Queens County Hotel, built in 1851 along Grand Avenue, on their way to the markets.\n\nThe Maspeth Theater, the neighborhood's largest theater in the 1920s, was built in 1924 at Grand Avenue and 69th Street by Straus and Strausberg, with 1,161 seats. It was owned by three companies before closing in 1965. Notable performers included Judy Garland. There were also many other theaters in Maspeth in the 1920s.\n\nA former Maspeth supermarket, Wielback's Grocery—one of the oldest in the area—then became Griff's Hardware. In 2000, the building became Griff's Laundry, a laundromat that closed less than ten years later and was slated for demolition. The building was notable for a neon sign on its facade.\n\nAt Clinton Hall, a 1920s-built venue that had interior balconies and a large chandelier, there is now a laboratory and industrial offices. It is named after a mansion built by Judge Joseph Sackett. Sackett had built a wood-framed mansion behind the hall; later, New York Governor DeWitt Clinton planned the Erie Canal. The lands of the Sackett-Clinton House, as the mansion was called, were turned into a park by 1910, and the mansion burned down in 1933.\n\nThe Clinton Diner, at Maspeth and Maurice Avenues, was built in 1935 and is a truck stop that appeared in the movie \"Goodfellas\", as well as in other movies. The Queens Head Tavern, nearby, was an American Revolutionary War-era tavern and was used as a stagecoach stop later on.\n\n\nMost people who live in Maspeth are of Polish, Italian, or Irish descent.This is reflected in the many businesses in the neighborhood like Irish pubs and Italian and Polish specialty stores and markets. Many people of Eastern European, German, Chinese, or Hispanic origin (mostly Puerto Ricans from nearby Ridgewood) have also moved to the area.\n\nBased on data from the 2010 United States Census, the population of Maspeth was 30,516, an increase of 1,600 (5.5%) from the 28,916 counted in 2000. Covering an area of , the neighborhood had a population density of .\n\nThe racial makeup of the neighborhood was 79.2% (18,080) White, 0.8% (253) African American, 0.1% (31) Native American, 12.0% (3,676) Asian, 0.0% (1) Pacific Islander, 0.4% (115) from other races, and 0.8% (245) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 7.6% (8,115) of the population.\n\nNew York City Department of Education operates public schools.\n\nPrivate schools in the area include:\n\nMaspeth is devoid of direct transit connections to Manhattan, as there are no New York City Subway stations and no express bus stops in Maspeth. Local buses provide connections to the subway, but off-peak service on these buses is often unreliable. Local bus routes include:\n\nThe narrow Grand Street Bridge carries Grand Street eastward across the English Kills and Newtown Creek from Williamsburg where it becomes Grand Avenue, Maspeth's main street for dining and business. Grand Avenue continues eastward to end at Queens Boulevard in Elmhurst. There is also access to I-278, the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway and I-495, the Long Island Expressway. The former crosses the Newtown Creek on the Kosciuszko Bridge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53530457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53530457", "title": "Mireille Issa", "text": "Mireille Issa\n\nMireille Issa is a Lebanese medievalist born in Beirut. She studies the late Latin period of antiquity.\n\nAfter finishing her studies at the Sorbonne, Mireille Issa taught Latin at the Université Saint-Esprit in Kaslik, Lebanon. A member of several international literary societies and organisations, engaged in the study of medieval literature and of the literary history of the crusades as told by their principal chroniclers such as Guillaume de Tyr (William of Tyre) & Jacques de Vitry, she has also investigated travel narrative texts of the post-crusade period, as well as the Latin dissertations written by German and French humanists of the 17th and 18th centuries, and retracing the life of the law school in Béryte. In her translations, she has focused on Maronite religious literature written in Latin, whose founders were the disciples of the Collège Maronite founded in 1584.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1371158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371158", "title": "Mucianus", "text": "Mucianus\n\nGaius Licinius Mucianus (fl. 1st century AD) was a general, statesman and writer of ancient Rome. He is considered to have played a role behind the scenes in the elevation of Vespasian to the throne.\n\nHis name shows that he had passed by adoption from the \"gens Mucia\" to the \"gens Licinia\". Mucianus was sent by Claudius to Armenia with Gnaeus Domitius Corbulo. He was a suffect consul during the reign of Nero, most likely during the years 63 or 64.\n\nAt the time of the outbreak of the Jewish revolt in 66 AD, Mucianus was serving as governor of Syria, a post he still held during the Year of Four Emperors (69); however, he failed to put down the Jewish revolt, and Vespasian was sent to replace him. After the death of Galba, Mucianus and Vespasian (who was in Judea at the time) both swore allegiance to Otho, but when the civil war broke out, Mucianus persuaded Vespasian to take up arms against Vitellius, who had seized the imperial throne.\n\nIt was agreed that Vespasian should stay behind to settle affairs in the East, while Mucianus made his way through Asia Minor and Thrace to attack Vitellius. On his way there, he defeated a Dacian invasion of Moesia. Mucianus reached Rome the day after the death of Vitellius, finding Domitian, Vespasian's son, at head of affairs, but until the arrival of Vespasian the real master of Rome was Mucianus.\n\nMucianus never wavered in his allegiance to Vespasian, whose favor he retained in spite of his arrogance. He is mentioned in the records of the Arval Brethren in the year 70; Mucianus may have been admitted following Vespasian's entrance to Rome, although Ronald Syme admits that he may have been co-opted \"in absentia\" by Galba. He was appointed consul (suffect) for the third time in 72. As no mention is made of Mucianus during the reigns of Titus or Domitian, he probably died during the reign of Vespasian; Syme believes his death happened before 78.\n\nA clever writer and historian, Mucianus collected the speeches and letters of Romans of the older republican period, probably including a corpus of proceedings of the Senate (\"res gesta senatus\"). He was also the author of a memoir, chiefly dealing with the natural history and geography of the East, a text often quoted by Pliny as the source of miraculous occurrences.\n\n"}
{"id": "47180610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47180610", "title": "National Cyber Security Centre (Ireland)", "text": "National Cyber Security Centre (Ireland)\n\nThe National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) is a government computer security organisation in Ireland, an operational arm of the Department of Communications, Climate Action and Environment. The NCSC was developed in 2013 and formally established by the Irish government in July 2015. It is responsible for Ireland's cyber security, with primary focus on securing government networks, protecting critical national infrastructure, and assisting businesses and citizens in protecting their own systems. The NCSC incorporates the Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT-IE).\n\nThe NCSC is headquartered at 29/31 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2.\n\nThe mandate for the NCSC includes; \n\nThreats identified to Ireland's critical infrastructure and government networks include: lone individuals, activist groups, criminal groups, terrorist groups, and nation states seeking to gather intelligence or to damage or degrade infrastructure. Incidents arising through extreme weather, human error and hardware or software failure also pose significant risks to individuals, businesses and public administration.\n\nWork relating to the National Cyber Security Centre, and any records associated with the security of ICT systems in the state and outside it, are exempt from being disclosed under freedom of information (FOI).\n\nThe Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT-IE) was established in late 2011 (prior to the official formation of the NCSC) within the Department of Communications, Energy and Natural Resources, and includes secondees from other government agencies. The main role of CSIRT-IE is to provide a 24/7 expert emergency response to computer security incidents across all public sector bodies, as well as providing advice to reduce threat exposure. CSIRT-IE engages in emergency planning with government agencies overseen by the Office of Emergency Planning (OEP) within the Department of Defence and the Government Task Force on Emergency Planning, chaired by the Minister for Defence. CSIRT-IE shares information with the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA).\n\nOutlining the future core aspects of work of the NCSC, the government's \"National Cyber Security Strategy 2015-2017\" states that the NCSC is to seek formal international accreditation for a Government CSIRT (g/CSIRT), expected in 2016, and accreditation will be sought for a formal National CSIRT (n/CSIRT), while also developing a capacity in the area of Industrial Control Systems and SCADA, which are used to run vital state networks such as electricity, water and telecommunications.\n\nThere is a strong culture of cooperation between the National Cyber Security Centre and the Irish Defence Forces in areas regarding technical skill sets, technical information sharing and exercise participation. Arrangements are due to be formalised by means of a Service Level Agreement with the Department of Defence, including a mechanism for the immediate sharing of technical expertise and information in the event of a major national cyber incident or emergency. The branch of the Irish military with responsibility for cyber defence is the Communications and Information Services Corps (CIS).\n\nThe Garda Síochána, the national police service, is involved with the NCSC in a preventative and investigative capacity, with regards to national security and computer crime. Its liaison relationships with international security services is particularly helpful to the NCSC in identifying emerging threats and vulnerabilities, and establishing best practice preventative measures. There is to be a Memorandum of Understanding with the Department of Justice and Equality on this matter, and upcoming cyber legislation will support the work of the National Cyber Security Centre.\n\nThere is also a Memorandum of Understanding with the Centre for Cybersecurity & Cybercrime Investigation (CCI) at University College Dublin, Europe's leading centre for research and education in cybersecurity, cybercrime and digital forensics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20904558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20904558", "title": "National heritage sites of South Africa", "text": "National heritage sites of South Africa\n\nSection 27 of the National Heritage Resources Act (NHRA) of South Africa provides for places of historic or cultural importance to be designated national heritage sites. This came into effect with the introduction of the Act on 1 April 2000, when all former national monuments declared by the former National Monuments Council and its predecessors became provincial heritage sites as provided for in Section 58 of the Act.\n\nBoth national and provincial heritage sites are protected under the terms of Section 27 of the NHRA, and a permit is required to work on them. National heritage sites are declared and administered by the national heritage resources authority, SAHRA; provincial heritage sites fall within the domain of the various provincial heritage resources authorities.\n\nThe SAHRA logo is used to mark national heritage sites.\n\nCurrently proclaimed national heritage sites are\n\n\n\n\n\nProvincial Heritage Resources Authorities:\n"}
{"id": "17598818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17598818", "title": "Nils Carl Aspenberg", "text": "Nils Carl Aspenberg\n\nNils Carl Aspenberg (born 26 August 1958) is a Norwegian journalist, historian, author and businessperson. He has written numerous books on rail transport, and is chief executive officer of Baneforlaget.\n\nAspenberg has a \"siviløkonom\" degree from BI Norwegian Business School. He worked as a conductor for Oslo Sporveier since 1980, and from 1981 tram and 1983-2003 subway engineer, as well as a bus driver since 1994. He has written more than thirty books on rail transport and local history and is owner of the publishing company Baneforlaget, which he founded in 1994. The company has published about 60 books. Aspenberg has been an active member of the Norwegian Railway Club, and was editor-in-chief of \"MJ-bladet\" from 1999 to 2003. He has also published the local history magazines \"Røakontakten\" from 1994 to 2008, and \"Langt Vest i Aker\" since 1997. He is also an editorial member of \"Lokaltrafikk\" and since 2013 also editor-in-chief. He is also an editorial member of \"Blickpunkt Straßenbahn\" and \"Store Norske Leksikon\".\n\nBaneforlaget is a Norwegian publishing company based in Oslo. It published books in Norwegian and German about Norwegian and Scandinavian railways, including tramways and rapid transits. Owner, CEO and one of the most productive authors is Nils Carl Aspenberg.\n"}
{"id": "7725754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725754", "title": "Oiasso", "text": "Oiasso\n\nOiasso, Oiasona or Oiarso was a Basque Roman town located on the left bank of the Bidasoa estuary in the Bay of Biscay (current Basque Country, in Spanish territory). Archaeological evidence unearthed recently pinpoints the core area of Oiasso in the old quarter of Irun (Gipuzkoa) by the Spanish-French border, where harbour and bath remains have been discovered. However, two other focuses in Cape Higuer and hermitage Ama Xantalen (necropolis and mausoleum) point to a wider complex outside the main nucleus.\n\nActually, some authors note that the name Oiasso may have applied to the whole valley, arguing that the very name of the Bidasoa River may stem from Latin \"via ad Oiasso\", eventually rendering \"Bidasoa\" in Basque. Furthermore, it is widely assumed that the name for the town Oiartzun some 10 km away may have developed from Oiasso. A Roman road linked this spot to ancient Pompaelo all the way through the \"Saltus Vasconum\" (the Vasconian wilderness), with the road being built to connect the Vasconian main town to the mines of \"Arditurri\" set in the massif of Aiako Harria. Romans showed an early interest on them on account of the ore (largely silver and copper) they could extract from them, using the port and factories of Oiasso to process and dispatch the freight away.\n\nA museum was founded recently in Irun to cater for the interest the vestiges unveiled have aroused and for tourism. \n\nEarlier it was misidentified with current San Sebastián, that is still nicknamed \"la bella Easo\" (\"The beautiful Easo\", a Hispanization of Oiasso).\n\nIruña-Veleia\n\n"}
{"id": "24985959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24985959", "title": "Olav Njølstad", "text": "Olav Njølstad\n\nOlav Njølstad (born March 1, 1957) is a Norwegian historian, biographer and novelist. He is director of the Norwegian Nobel Institute.\n\nAs a novelist he made his literary debut in 2003 with the thriller \"Mannen med oksehjertet\", and wrote the novel \"Brennofferet\" in 2005.\n\nHis biography of resistance leader, government mistister and lawyer Jens Christian Hauge (\"Jens Chr. Hauge – fullt og helt\" from 2008) was well received by the critics.\n\n"}
{"id": "36489293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36489293", "title": "Oriyo timbo", "text": "Oriyo timbo\n\nOriyo Timbo is an archeological site belonging to Indus Valley Civilisation located in Bhavnagar District, Gujarat State, India. The site is maesuring 4 hectares, located at a distance of 70 km from Rojdi, another IVC site.\n\nThe excavation at this site was undertaken by Gujarat State Department of Archeology and University Museum of University of Pennsylvania.\n\nEvidence of aerly agricultural activities were found at this site belonging to Harappan period. Oriyo Timbo has undergone extensive archaeobotanical investigations and Seetha Narayana Reddy has found significant agricultural practices at this site. Significant find include Millet (ragi)\n\nAn Occupational Stratum containing microlithic tools and ceramics (less in numbers) were found below Lustrous Red Ware occupation(which is important ceramic of Post-Urban Phase of this arae) at this site. Gregory Possehl states that \"Oriyo Timbo also produced some radio carbon dates for the micro lithic occupation (Rissman and Chitawala 1990) which indicate that this can be dated to the entire third millennium, possibly extending as far back in time as c.3700 BC.\" and hunting and gathering people of this arae were there at the time when Lothal was occupied.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7744090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7744090", "title": "Panos G. Rontoyannis", "text": "Panos G. Rontoyannis\n\nPanos G. Rontoyannis (June 20, 1911 in Lefkas - December 26, 1996 in Athens) was a philologist-historian of Lefkas.\n\n"}
{"id": "13718926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13718926", "title": "Paul Fredericq", "text": "Paul Fredericq\n\nPaul Fredericq (12 August 1850 – 23 March 1920) was a Belgian historian at Ghent University active in the promotion of the use of the Dutch language in Belgium.\n\nPaul Fredericq was born in the Sleepstraat in Ghent, Belgium. A student at the \"Koninklijk Atheneum\" of Ghent, where Max Rooses and Jacob Heremans influenced him. He became a Protestant in his youth and his tendencies in religion, as in politics, were liberal. In 1871 he graduated as a high school teacher from the University of Liège and started working as a teacher in Mechelen and Arlon. In 1875, Fredericq received a special doctorate in historical sciences, with his study \"Essai sur le rôle politique et social des ducs de Bourgogne dans les Pays-Bas\", and he became professor of history at the University of Liège.\n\nAfter Jacob Heremans became emeritus, Paul Fredericq became professor of history at Ghent University in 1883. His courses included Dutch literature and practical exercises about Belgian history. Characterizing his sociability: Fredericq also taught in the relaxed surroundings of his home. It was probably during this period that he befriended the students of the \"'t zal wel gaan\" movement.\n\nFredericq was very active in the liberal wing of the Flemish Movement. During the period of 1891-95, he was a liberal member of the city council, and became president of the local \"Willemsfonds\" organization and editor in chief of the liberal magazine \"Het Volksbelang\". Then founded the \"Hooger Onderwijs voor het Volk\" (\"higher education for the people\") in 1894, an experiment to close the education-gap between the elite and the workforce. However, Fredericq was especially important during the struggle to include Dutch into the Belgian education system. His activism culminated with his \"Schets eener Geschiedenis der Vlaamsche Beweging\" (1906–09), a short history of the Flemish Movement.\n\nDuring World War I, on the invasion of Belgium by the Germans, Fredericq was active in encouraging the patriotic feelings of his countrymen in occupied Belgium and supporting non-violent resistance to the invader. As a result, he was deported to Germany on 16 March 1916, together with his colleague, the historian Henri Pirenne. He was interned successively at Gütersloh, Jena and Bürgel. The ordeal weakened him both physically and mentally.\n\nAfter the war, he became rector at Ghent University in 1919. But quickly resigned after only a few weeks, disappointed by the anti-Flemish backlash. He died shortly afterwards in Ghent.\n\nBesides the works mentioned above, he wrote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47230744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47230744", "title": "Professor of Medieval History (Cambridge)", "text": "Professor of Medieval History (Cambridge)\n\nThe Professorship of Medieval History is a professorship in medieval history at the University of Cambridge. It was founded on 1 May 1937. \n\nThe professorship is assigned to the Faculty of History.\n\nThe following have held the chair:\n\n"}
{"id": "33278003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33278003", "title": "Ramón Mujica Pinilla", "text": "Ramón Mujica Pinilla\n\nRamon Elias Mujica Pinilla is a Peruvian anthropologist and served under three Presidents as Director of the National Library of Peru.\n\nRamon Mujica Pinilla is the son of Peruvian diplomat, founding publisher of and collector Manuel Mujica Gallo and museum docent Marisa Pinilla Sánchez Concha, daughter of a Spanish Consul of Spain in Peru. He graduated from New College of Florida in Sarasota, Florida. He did his postgraduate work at the National University of San Marcos.\n\nSe llama Ramon\n\nHe has written books on the mystical intellectual sources of St. Rose of Lima, the first saint of the Americas, and on the political dimensions of her Creole and Indian cult that prepared the ground for Peru's political Independence from Spain in 1821. \"Angeles Apocrifos en la America Virreinal\" includes an explanation for the late 17th century Andean \"sui generis\" baroque iconography of angels bearing musquets and Hebrew names. This angelic visionary iconography explained the Spanish Conquest of Peru in prophetic terms. It alluded to Inca Garcilaso de la Vega's belief that the Spanish conquistadors were divine messengers with thunderclaps sent by the Inca god Viracocha. Mujica coordinated the two volume set on \"El Barroco Peruano\" published by the Banco de Credito del Peru and the collection of essays \"Vision y Simbolos: del virreinato criollo a la Republica Peruana\", that includes contributions by David A. Brading, Teresa Gisbert de Mesa and Natalia Majluf, among others.\n\nHe is a numerary member (miembro de numero) of the Peruvian Academia Nacional de Historia and a \"miembro correspondiente\" from the Academia Nacional de Bellas Artes in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He has been appointed to be a board member of the Instituto Cervantes in 2014 filling a seat vacated by Isabella Allende.\n\n"}
{"id": "34591816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34591816", "title": "Reweti Tuhorouta Kohere", "text": "Reweti Tuhorouta Kohere\n\nReweti Tuhorouta Kohere (11 April 1871 – 9 August 1954) was a New Zealand Anglican clergyman, newspaper journalist and editor, farmer, writer, historian. Of Māori descent, he identified with the Ngati Porou iwi. He was born in Orutua, East Coast, New Zealand on 11 April 1871. One of his younger brothers was Henare Mokena Kohere.\nHe married Keita Paratene, daughter of Paratene Tatae and Sarah \"Hera\" Halbert. Sarah was the daughter of Thomas Halbert, one of the founding fathers of Gisborne and Kaikiri (who would later anglosize her name to Keita). Sarah was also the sister of Kate Wyllie (née Halbert) and half-sister of Wi Pere and Otene Pitau. Her children also included All Blacks rugby players, William \"Bill\" Cunningham and Moana Paratene.\n\nHe contested one general election; in , he agreed to be the official Labour Party candidate in the electorate, and he came second after National's Āpirana Ngata.\n"}
{"id": "344047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344047", "title": "Robert Boyd (stenographer)", "text": "Robert Boyd (stenographer)\n\nRobert Boyd (born April 10, 1870), of Russell, Ontario, Canada, was the inventor of a system of shorthand, Boyd's Syllabic Shorthand. The system was first published in 1903, with a later publication in 1912.\n"}
{"id": "33552976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33552976", "title": "Selim Matar", "text": "Selim Matar\n\nSelim Matar, writer, novelist and sociologist with Swiss and Iraqi nationalities, was born in Bagdad and resides currently in Geneva. He is founder of the movement known as “Identity of the Iraqi Nation”, chief editor of the trimestral journal Mesopotamie, as well as author of Woman of the Flask, a well known novel in the Arabic-speaking world.\n\nSelim Matar was born in 1956 in a family that immigrated to Baghdad from the south of Iraq. He becomes member of the Iraqi communist party and leaves his country at the end of 1978, after the failure of what is known as the “national confrontation” between the ruling party Baas and the communists. After three years of ceaseless wanderings in the Middle-East, he finally settles down in Geneva at the end of 1981. He studied at the Graduate Institute of Development Studies, specializing in social sciences and research in the Third World.\n\nIn Switzerland, Selim Matar distanced himself from communism from two points: its internationalist and economic mode of thinking, which disregards national identity and cultural factors, and the materialist Marxist philosophy which denies spirituality. From being a “universalist materialist”, he becomes now a “spiritual humanist”, believing in cosmic forces, not by adopting any specific religion, but rather in being open to and in studying diverse beliefs from all around the world.\n\nOne of his fundamental ideas: the exterior is the reflection of the interior; every individual essence contains also the essence of the universe. Therefore, individual identity is the basis of all other forms of identity. If we do not believe in ourselves and in what surrounds us, we cannot believe in the collectivity and what lies further. Therefore, if we are not attached to our own people and own identity, we cannot be attached to humanity as a whole. It is from this philosophical starting point, as well as his numerous books (essays and novels) and his journal Mesopotamia that Selim MATAR starts to occupy himself with the concept of “national identity”. In fact he is considered as the founding figure of the cultural movement known as “identity of the Iraqi nation”, a concept not known in Iraq until the eighties, be it in the political or cultural domain.\n\nThe book that really founded this movement is \"Wounded Identity\" (1996, 500 pages, several Iraqi and Arab editions). This work has been studied in several Iraqi universities. The concept of identity is here explained and applied to the Iraqi case, as well as to the Near East and to the whole Arabic world, from a historical and political point of view.\n\nBecause of his pacific discourse that calls for national unity and rejection of ethnic and confessional fanaticism, Selim Matar has been contested by communitarian parties and movements leaning towards armed conflicts.\n\nSelim MATAR is the author of several works of reflection, essays, novels and short stories. The ensemble of his works can be consulted free of charge on his website.\n\nList of principal books:\n\n1. Imra’at al-Qârûra (The Woman of the Flask), 1990, 160 pages. This first book won the prize “Al-Naqed” of the best Arabic novel in 1990. It exists in several editions, both Iraqi and Arab. This novel has been very well received in the Arabic world and Selim MATAR has been named “companion of the Woman of the Flask”.\nThis novel has been translated into French (La Femme à la Fiole) and in English (The Woman of the Flask).\n\n2. Al-Dhât al-djarîha (Wounded Identity, 1996, 500 pages) is his first work of reflection and history. There he shows in detail, with numerous examples from history and philosophy, the concept of national identity and the problems of identity in Iraq as well as the Arabic world at large.\n\n3. I’tirâfât radjulin lâ yastahyî (literal translation: The Confessions of a Man without Shame), 2008, 160 pages. This is an autobiographical novel where the author evokes his life from his childhood and youth in Bagdad all the way through his arrival in Geneva and his life in Switzerland. Translated into the French version at Paris in 2011 (Bagdad-Genève, à la recherche d’une patrie, roman autobiographique). Several extracts from the book have been performed in a play.\n\n4. Al-munazammât al-sirriyah (The Secret Societies), 2011, 160 pages. This book assembles information and develops a reflection on world secret societies and their role in the Middle East.\n\n5. Al-Irâq, saba’tu alâf ’âm min al-hayât (Iraq, 7000 Years of Living History, 2013, 260 pages). This important work combines history with reflection. It retraces different stages of Iraqi history, from the prehistoric era until the modern times, with some 500 interesting as well as useful photos, maps and numerical information.\n\nThe other writings of Selim MATAR focus on the problem of identity and belonging in their historical, psychological, political and intellectual aspects.\n\n1. Al-taw’am al-mafqûd (The Lost Twin), 2000, 200p, his second novel tells the wanderings of a young Iraqi exile who leaves Geneva in search of his “lost twin”.\n\n2. Djadal a-huwiyyât (The Debate of Identities), 2003, 300P:.\n\n3. Al-Irâq al-djadîd wa-l-fikr al-djadîd, (The New Iraq and the New Thought)\n2001, 200P.\n\n4. Yaqzat al-huwiyyah al-irâqiyya (The Awakening of Iraqi Identity) 2011 ;150P.\n\n5. Mashrû’ al-ihyâh al-watanî al-‘irâqî (The Project of the Rebirth of the Iraqi Nation), 2012, 150P.\n\nThe journal MESOPOTAMIA and the encyclopaedias of MESOPOTAMIA\n\nIn 2004, Selim MATAR started to publish MESOPOTAMIA, a cultural journal devoted to the question of Iraqi identity, of which he is the chief editor. While publishing issues of this periodic, Selim MATAR also supervised the publication of numerous encyclopaedias (about 400 pages) of MESOPOTAMIA:\n\n1. Khamsat alâf ‘âm min al-unûtha al-‘irâqiyyah (5000 Years of Iraqi Femininity), 2004: story of the Iraqi woman and presentation of eminent female personalities in ancient and contemporary Iraq.\n\n2. Mawsû’ah al-madâ’in al’irâqiyyah (Encyclopaedia of Iraqi Cities), 2005: a work aimed at making known the geography and history of Iraqi provinces and their principal cities.\n\n3. Khamsat alâf ‘âm min al-tadayyun al-‘irâqî (5000 Years of Iraqi Religiosity), 2006: a work aimed at making known the different religions and confessions of Iraq, both antique and current.\n\n4. Mawsû’at Kirkuk qalb al-‘Irâq, (Encyclopaedia of Kirkûk, the Heart of Iraq), 2008: a work aimed at making known the province of Kirkuk, its history, as well as its geographic, demographic and cultural dimensions.\n\n5. Mawsû’at al-lughât al-‘irâqiyyah (Encyclopaedia of Iraqi Languages), 2009: a contribution to the knowledge of all the languages that have flourished in Iraq, dead or living, as well as to the culture of communities that speak those languages.\n\n6. Mawsû’at al-bî’ah al-‘irâqiyyah (Encyclopaedia of Iraqi Environment), 2010: a work aimed at bringing us information about the natural environment of Iraq and the serious ecological problems that the country has faced, in order to make us aware of the limitation of the factors of industrial and military destruction and pollution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26784888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26784888", "title": "Slavko Goldstein", "text": "Slavko Goldstein\n\nSlavko Goldstein (22 August 1928 – 13 September 2017) was a Croatian Jewish publisher, historian and politician, and Yugoslav writer.\n\nSlavko Goldstein was born in Sarajevo in the Jewish family of Ivo and Lea Goldstein. His grandfather Aron had come to Karlovac, which was at the time in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, in 1890 from Transylvania. There he worked in Lisander Reich's bookshop, and married the latter's sister Adolfa. The Goldsteins then opened a trade in Topusko, and later moved to Orljavac. From there, they moved to Tuzla where they opened a store and where Slavko's father Ivo (\"Izchak\") was born. After he graduated agronomy in Vienna, Slavko's father returned briefly to Tuzla and, as a convinced Zionist, moved to Mandatory Palestine. He lived in an agricultural kibbutz near Haifa. In 1928, with his wife Lea, whom he had met in Palestine, he returned to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia – not in Tuzla with his father, but in Karlovac where he took over the bookshop from his uncle Lisander Reich. Slavko was born during a trip to Sarajevo, and spent his childhood in Karlovac with his brother Danko (\"Daniel\"), where his father was a book dealer.\n\nDuring the Second World War and the 1941 Nazi occupation of Yugoslavia, Slavko's father was arrested by the Ustaša, while Slavko escaped from Karlovac to where he was hidden by the Djerek family. His brother Danko took his grandfather Aron to Tuzla, while his mother Lea was in jail from July to August, when she was released thanks to some friends. In January 1942, all three were found in Kraljevica. They thus joined the Partisans with whom they stayed until the end of the war. From Spring 1942 to 1945, Goldstein was active in the field and combat units of the NOVJ. He ended the war, at 17, with the rank of Lieutenant. \nHis mother Lea spent the war in the medical service, and his brother Danko as a courier for the Agitprop of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia (KPJ).\n\nSlavko's father was killed at Jadovno concentration camp at the end of July or the first day of August 1941. Apart from his father, Slavko lost a part of the family from Tuzla during the Holocaust, who were killed in the Jasenovac concentration camp and Auschwitz.\n\nAfter the war, Slavko Goldstein graduated in 1947 from the Karlovac Gymnasium. Then he moved to Zagreb with his family. After the establishment of the State of Israel in 1949, he emigrated with his brother Danko and participated in the war for Israel's independence as a member of Israel Defense Forces. He lived there for few years in a kibbutz with his brother.\nHe returned to SFR Yugoslavia in the 1950s, and started studying literature and philosophy at the Zagreb Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, but he never graduated.\nIn the 1950s, Slavko married the Croat Vera Goldstein. Their son Ivo Goldstein was born in 1958.\n\nDuring his studies, Goldstein began working as a journalist. He worked at Jadran Film, and in 1952 was a member of the editorial staff of \"Vjesnika u srijedu\", editor at Radio Zagreb, and since 1969 editor-in-chief of the publishing house \"Stvarnost\". \nSince the 1950s, Goldstein has been continuously active in journalism, publishing and public life in Yugoslavia and later Croatia. He also worked as an editor of \"Vjesnik\". He is the founder of the publishing house \"Sveučilišne naklade Liber\".\"\n\nGoldstein also directed five documentary films, and wrote screenplays for several Yugoslav World War II films such as \"Signal Over the City\" (\"Signali nad gradom\", 1960), \"Prometheus of the Island\" (\"Prometej s otoka Viševice\", 1964; co-written with Vatroslav Mimica and Krunoslav Quien), and \"Operation Stadium\" (\"Akcija stadion\", 1977; co-written with Dušan Vukotić). He edited more than 150 books, and worked as a publisher on about 400 titles.\n\nGoldstein identified as \"Yugoslav\".\nOn 20 May 1989, together with his brother and several associates from \"Cankarjeva založba\", where he worked then (Vlado Gotovac and Božo Kovačević were also employed there), he founded the first political party in modern Croatia, the Croatian Social Liberal Party (HSLS) and until February 1990 was its President.\nHe launched the journal for democratic culture \"Erazmus\", of which he was also the editor-in-chief.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Goldstein openly opposed of the authoritarian politics of the Croatian President Franjo Tuđman, as well as the privatization process. Together with several other Croatian intellectuals, he signed a request for the resignation of President Tuđman in 1993, published in the Erasmus magazine.\n\nGoldstein also argued that Tuđman was more a politician than a historian, and that history was interpreted according to his political views. For Goldstein, Tuđman was a solid personality who did not accept the uprising, that is, he flirted with some Greater Croatia ideas, but not with the Ustaša.\n\nIn 2007, Goldstein published the book \"1941. – Godina koja se vraća\" (\"1941 – The Year That Comes Back\") for which he received the Cyclop Award for the Publicist Work of the Year. He founded the publishing house \"Novi Liber\".\n\nFor a time he was President of the Zagreb Jewish Community and of the \"Cultural Society Miroslav Šalom Freiberger\", and together with his son, Ivo, historian, advocated the reconstruction of the Zagreb Synagogue.\nGoldstein was then the first president of the Jewish religious community \"Beth Israel\" from Zagreb, founded in 2007 after an internal conflict in the Jewish community of Zagreb led by Ognjen Kraus.\n\nIn 2008, although he had stated that he would visit Bleiburg together with the SDP President Zoran Milanovic, he finally renounced because he \"did not want to hurt the feelings of people from my most intimate circle who pleaded me not to go to Bleiburg.\"\n\nAfter the victory of the SDP-led coalition in the 2011 parliamentary elections, Goldstein became a special advisor for culture of the Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanović, as well as President of the Council of the Jasenovac Memorial Center. In 2011, together with his son Ivo he published the book \"Jasenovac i Bleiburg nisu isto\" (\"Jasenovac and Bleiburg are not the same\"). In this book, he opposes those who hold that \"... Jasenovac and Bleiburg are simply two identical crimes with different ideological signs.\" \nIn 2012, he supported the initiative of his brother Danko to abolish the parliamentary commemoration of the victims of the Bleiburg repatriations.\n\nIn 2015, Slavko Goldstein opposed the initiative to introduce the greeting \"Za dom spremni\" as an official greeting of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. He stated that he would not be able to live in Croatia if the greeting was introduced in the military, schools or other state institutions, and that he would immediately seek political asylum in another European country.\n\n"}
{"id": "23408931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23408931", "title": "Snorri Sturluson", "text": "Snorri Sturluson\n\nSnorri Sturluson (; 1179 – 23 September 1241) was an Icelandic historian, poet, and politician. He was elected twice as lawspeaker to the Icelandic parliament, the Althing. He was the author of the \"Prose Edda\" or \"Younger Edda\", which consists of \"Gylfaginning\" (\"the fooling of Gylfi\"), a narrative of Norse mythology, the \"Skáldskaparmál\", a book of poetic language, and the \"Háttatal\", a list of verse forms. He was also the author of the \"Heimskringla\", a history of the Norwegian kings that begins with legendary material in \"Ynglinga saga\" and moves through to early medieval Scandinavian history. For stylistic and methodological reasons, Snorri is often taken to be the author of \"Egil's saga\".\n\nSnorri Sturluson was born in (commonly translated as Hvamm or Hvammr) into the wealthy and powerful Sturlungar family of the Icelandic Commonwealth in 1179. His parents were Sturla Þórðarson the elder of Hvammur and his second wife, Guðný Böðvarsdóttir. He had two older brothers, Þórðr Sturluson (b. 1165) and Sighvatr Sturluson (b. 1170), two sisters (Helga and Vigdís) and nine half-siblings.\n\nSnorri was raised from the age of three (or four) by Jón Loftsson, a relative of the Norwegian royal family, in Oddi, Iceland. As Sturla was trying to settle a lawsuit with the priest and chieftain (\"goðorðsmaðr\") Páll Sölvason, Páll's wife (Þorbjörg Bjarnardóttir) lunged suddenly at him with a knife — intending, she said, to make him like his one-eyed hero Odin — but bystanders deflected the blow to his cheek instead. The resulting settlement would have beggared Páll, but Jón Loftsson intervened in the Althing to mitigate the judgment and, to compensate Sturla, offered to raise and educate Snorri.\n\nSnorri therefore received an excellent education and made connections that he might not otherwise have made. He attended the school of Sæmundr fróði, grandfather of Jón Loftsson, at Oddi, and never returned to his parents' home. His father died in 1183 and his mother as guardian soon wasted Snorri's share of the inheritance. Jón Loftsson died in 1197. The two families then arranged a marriage in 1199 between Snorri and Herdís, the daughter of Bersi Vermundarson. From her father, Snorri inherited an estate at Borg and a chieftainship. He soon acquired more property and chieftainships.\n\nSnorri and Herdís were together for four years at Borg. They had at least two children, Hallbera and Jón. The marriage succumbed to Snorri's philandering, and in 1206, he settled in Reykholt as manager of an estate there, but without Herdís. He made significant improvements to the estate, including a hot outdoor bath (Snorralaug). The bath and the buildings have been preserved to some extent. During the initial years at Reykholt he fathered five children by three different women: Guðrún Hreinsdóttir, Oddný, and Þuríður Hallsdóttir.\n\nSnorri quickly became known as a poet, but was also a lawyer. In 1215, he became lawspeaker of the Althing, the only public office of the Icelandic commonwealth and a position of high respect. In the summer of 1218, he left the lawspeaker position and sailed to Norway, by royal invitation. There he became well acquainted with the teen-aged King Hákon Hákonarson and his co-regent, Jarl Skúli. He spent the winter as house-guest of the jarl. They showered gifts upon him, including the ship in which he sailed, and he in return wrote poetry about them. In the summer of 1219 he met his Swedish colleague, the lawspeaker Eskil Magnusson, and his wife, Kristina Nilsdotter Blake, in Skara. They were both related to royalty and probably gave Snorri an insight into the history of Sweden.\n\nSnorri was mainly interested in history and culture. The Norwegian regents, however, cultivated Snorri, made him a \"skutilsvein\", a senior title roughly equivalent to knight, and received an oath of loyalty. The king hoped to extend his realm to Iceland, which he could do by a resolution of the Althing, of which Snorri had been a key member.\n\nIn 1220, Snorri returned to Iceland and by 1222 was back as lawspeaker of the Althing, which he held this time until 1232. The basis of his election was entirely his fame as a poet. Politically he was the king's spokesman, supporting union with Norway, a platform that acquired him enemies among the chiefs. In 1224, Snorri married Hallveig Ormsdottir (c. 1199–1241), a granddaughter of Jón Loftsson, now a widow of great means with two young sons, and made a contract of joint property ownership (or \"helmingafélag\") with her. Their children did not survive to adulthood, but Hallveig's sons and seven of Snorri's children did live to adulthood.\n\nSnorri was the most powerful chieftain in Iceland during the years 1224–1230.\n\nMany of the other chiefs found his position as royal office-holder contrary to their interests, especially the other Sturlungar. Snorri's strategy was to consolidate power over them, at which point he could offer Iceland to the king. His first moves were civic. On the death in 1222 of Sæmundur, son of Jón Loftsson, he became a suitor for the hand of his daughter, Sólveig. Herdís' silent vote did nothing for his suit. His nephew, Sturla Sighvatsson, Snorri's political opponent, stepped in to marry her in 1223, the year before Snorri met Hallveig.\n\nA period of clan feuding followed. Snorri perceived that only resolute, saga-like actions could achieve his objective, but he proved unwilling or incapable of carrying them out. He raised an armed party under another nephew, Böðvar Þórðarson, and another under his son, Órækja, with the intent of executing a first strike against his brother Sighvatur and Sturla Sighvatsson. On the eve of battle he dismissed those forces and offered terms to his brother.\n\nSighvatur and Sturla with a force of 1000 men drove Snorri into the countryside, where he sought refuge among the other chiefs. Órækja undertook guerrilla operations in the fjords of western Iceland and the war was on.\n\nHaakon IV made an effort to intervene from afar, inviting all the chiefs of Iceland to a peace conference in Norway. This maneuver was transparent to Sighvatur, who understood, as apparently Snorri did not, what could happen to the chiefs in Norway. Instead of killing his opponents he began to insist that they take the king up on his offer.\n\nThis was Órækja's fate, who was captured by Sturla during an ostensible peace negotiation at Reykjaholt, and also of Þorleifur Þórðarson, a cousin of Snorri's, who came to his assistance with 800 men and was deserted by Snorri on the battlefield in a flare-up over the chain of command. In 1237, Snorri thought it best to join the king.\n\nThe reign of Haakon IV (Hákon Hákonarson), King of Norway, was troubled by civil war relating to questions of succession and was at various times divided into quasi-independent regions under contenders. There were always plots against the king and questions of loyalty but nevertheless managed to build up the Norwegian state from what it had been.\n\nWhen Snorri arrived in Norway for the second time, it was clear to the king that he was no longer a reliable agent. The conflict between Haakon and Skúli was beginning to escalate into civil war. Snorri stayed with the jarl, or chief, and his son and the jarl made him a jarl hoping to command his allegiance. In August 1238, Sigvat and four of his sons (Sturla, Markús, Kolbeinn, and Þórður Krókur, the latter two being executed after the battle), were killed at the Battle of Örlygsstaðir in Iceland against Gissur Þorvaldsson and Kolbein the Young, chiefs whom they had provoked. Snorri, Órækja, and Þorleifur requested permission to return home. As the king now could not predict Snorri's behavior, permission was denied. He was explicitly ordered to remain in Norway on the basis of his honorary rank. Skúli on the other hand gave permission and helped them book passage.\n\nSnorri must have had his own ideas about the king's position and the validity of his orders, but at any rate he chose to disobey them; his words according to \"Sturlunga saga\", 'út vil ek' (literally 'I want out', but idiomatically 'I will go home'), have become proverbial in Icelandic. He returned to Iceland in 1239. The king was distracted by the necessity to confront Skúli, who declared himself king in 1239. He was defeated militarily and killed in 1240. Meanwhile, Snorri resumed his chieftainship and made a bid to crush Gissur by prosecuting him in court for the deaths of Sigvat and Sturla. A meeting of the Althing was arranged for the summer of 1241 but Gissur and Kolbein arrived with several hundred men. Snorri and 120 men formed around a church. Gissur chose to pay fines rather than to attack.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1240, after the jarl's defeat, but before his removal from the scene, Haakon sent two agents to Gissur bearing a secret letter with orders to kill or capture Snorri. Gissur was being invited now to join the unionist movement, which he could accept or refuse, just as he pleased. His initial bid to take Snorri at the Althing failed.\n\nHallveig died of natural causes. When the family bickered over the inheritance, Hallveig's sons, Klaeing and Orm, asked assistance from their uncle Gissur. Holding a meeting with them and Kolbein the Younger, Gissur brought out the letter. Orm refused. Shortly after, Snorri received a letter in cipher runes warning him of the plot, but he could not understand them.\n\nGissur led seventy men on a daring raid to his house, achieving complete surprise. Snorri Sturluson was assassinated in his house at Reykholt in autumn of 1241. It is not clear that he was given the option of surrender. He fled to the cellar. There, Símon knútur asked Arni the Bitter to strike him. Then Snorri said: \"Eigi skal höggva!\"—\"Do not strike!\" Símon answered: \"Högg þú!\" — \"You strike now!\" Snorri replied: \"Eigi skal höggva!\"—\"Do not strike!\" and these were his last words.\n\nThis act was not popular in either Iceland or Norway. To diminish the odium, the king insisted that if Snorri had submitted he would have been spared. The fact that he could make such an argument reveals how far his influence in Iceland had come. Haakon went on suborning the chiefs of Iceland. In 1262, the Althing ratified union with Norway and royal authority was instituted in Iceland. Each member swore an oath of personal loyalty to the king, a practice which continued as each new king came to the throne, until absolute and hereditary monarchy was formally accepted by the Icelanders in 1662.\n\nSnorri Sturluson's writings provide information and indications concerning persons and events influencing the peoples inhabiting North Europe during periods for which relevant information is scarce: thus, for example, he can be used to illuminate relations between England and Scandinavia during the 10th and 11th centuries. Snorri is considered a figure of enduring importance in this regard, Halvdan Koht describing his work as \"surpassing anything else that the Middle Ages have left us of historical literature\". He also provided an early account of the discovery of Vinland.\n\nTo an extent, the legacy of Snorri Sturluson also played a role in politics long after his death. His writings could be used in support of the claims of later Norwegian kings concerning the venerability and extent of their rule. Later, \"Heimskringla\" factored in establishing a national identity during the Norwegian national independence movement.\n\nIcelandic perception of Snorri in the 20th century and to date has been colored by the historical views adopted when they sought to sever their ties with Denmark, any revision of which still has strong nationalistic sentiments to contend with. To serve such views, Snorri and other leading Icelanders of his time are sometimes judged with some presentism, on the basis of concepts that came into vogue only centuries later, such as state, independence, sovereignty, and nation.\n\n\n\n\nIn Norwegian\n\n"}
{"id": "521452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521452", "title": "Stalin's alleged speech of 19 August 1939", "text": "Stalin's alleged speech of 19 August 1939\n\nThis article covers a speech allegedly given by Joseph Stalin, leader of the Soviet Union, on 19 August 1939 to members of the Politburo, wherein he supposedly described the strategy of the Soviet Union on the eve of World War II.\n\nThe historicity of the speech is still the subject of academic debate. Plausible textual evidence of this speech found in various reputable archives has been academically studied and published, however no formal first-hand evidence of a Politburo \"meeting\" held on 19 August 1939 or the delivery of the quoted speech has yet been proven. The Russian version of the speech (registered as f. 7, op. 1, d. 1223) can be found at the Center for Historic Documents of the former Special Archives of the USSR. Speeches given in secret were common at the time, the Politburo being a closed and secretive body. There are also contrary views that these copies were intended originally as propaganda and disinformation. Accordingly, until consensus is reached by historians, the discussion of the documents supporting such a thesis are described in this article as an \"alleged\" speech.\n\nIn these reports, Stalin is represented as talking about his strategic view of the growing conflict in Europe, and his view that it would be beneficial for the Soviet agenda, insofar as it would weaken the West, allowing possible territorial expansion.\n\nIn the source material available to historians, Stalin is represented as expressing an expectation that the war would be the best opportunity to weaken both the Western nations and Nazi Germany, and make Germany suitable for \"Sovietization\". There is also expectation of eventual territorial expansion to the Baltic countries, Finland and Poland, with the approval of either the Western powers or Germany.\n\nHistorians who have studied these documents have suggested that if such a speech took place, which is usually considered plausible but not proven (see below), then this view may have formed the basis for the Nazi-Soviet pact of non-aggression signed in 1939, known as the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, which was signed just four days later on 23 August 1939.\n\nThe first version of this speech was published, partially, on 28 November 1939, in the Paris newspaper \"Le Temps\" by the news agency \"Havas\" despatch from Geneva. Since then several versions, varying in content, have been in circulation.\n\nIn \"Pravda\" of 30 November 1939, the day of the outbreak of the Winter War, Stalin was asked for his opinion on the report of \"the speech\" allegedly made \"by Stalin to the Politburo on 19 August\", in which he is said to have expressed the thought that the war should go on as long as possible, so that the belligerents are exhausted.\" Stalin stated this was an incorrect assertion, and was quoted by Pravda as saying:\n\nIn 1994, Russian publicist Tatiana S. Bushuyeva published an archival reference because of the speech in an article printed in the \"Novy Mir\" magazine (#12, 1994), based on what she claimed was recent findings in Soviet Special Archives of a text that according to her was supposedly recorded by a Comintern member present at the meeting.\n\nThe actual original text is not available yet. Bushuyeva also printed a Russian translation of a version available in French. This caused another surge of speculations on the issue. Bushuyeva omitted to mention that the referred archival record was from stock related to the documents of General Staff of the French Army.\n\nWhether this speech was ever given by Stalin is still the subject of dispute by historians and no proof is as yet unanimously accepted. According to Viktor Suvorov's book \"M-Day\", Soviet historians laid special emphasis on proving that no Politburo meeting took place on 19 August 1939. Nevertheless, Suvorov states in his book that Russian military historian Dmitri Volkogonov has found evidence that a meeting really took place on that day.\n\nAn article in the \"Otechestvennaya Istoriya\" ((History of the Fatherland), Отечественная история, 2004, № 1) by Sergey Sluch (С.З. Случ) critically reviews the history of \"Stalin's Speech\", its textological analysis, and possible reasons and sources for the possible forgery. Carl Nordling, a Finnish statistician and amateur historian, pointed out some counter-theses to Sluch's disapproval of the existence of such a speech.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11821029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11821029", "title": "Timeline of the Mensalão scandal", "text": "Timeline of the Mensalão scandal\n\nThe Mensalão scandal () took place in Brazil in 2005 and threatened to bring down the government of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. \"Mensalão\" is a neologism and variant of the word for \"big monthly payment\" (\"salário mensal\" or \"mensalidade\").\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
