{"id": "4503405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4503405", "title": "American Speech–Language–Hearing Association", "text": "American Speech–Language–Hearing Association\n\nThe American Speech–Language–Hearing Association (ASHA) is a professional association for speech–language pathologists, audiologists, and speech, language, and hearing scientists in the United States and internationally. It has more than 197,856 members and affiliates.\n\nThe mission of the American Speech–Language–Hearing Association is to promote the interests of and provide the highest quality services for professionals in audiology, speech–language pathology, and speech and hearing science, and to advocate for people with communication disabilities.\n\nThe association's national office is located at 2200 Research Boulevard, Rockville, Maryland. The organization also has an office on Capitol Hill.\n\nArlene Pietranton is currently serving as the association's executive director.\nASHA was founded in 1925 as the American Academy of Speech Correction. The current name was adopted in 1978.\n\nThe 2014 ASHA conference was held in Orlando, Florida from November 20–22.\n\nThe 2017 ASHA conference will be held in Los Angeles, California from November 9–11.\n\nThe Council for Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology (CAA) is the accreditation unit of the ASHA. Founded over 100 years ago by American universities and secondary schools, CAA established standards for graduate program accreditation that meet entry-level preparation in the speech and hearing field. Accreditation is available for graduate programs with a master's degree in Speech-Language Pathology or clinical doctoral program in audiology.\n\nProfessionals of Communication Sciences and Disorders (CSD) can become members of ASHA. These professionals include audiologists, speech-language pathologists, and speech-language-hearing scientists. As of December 31, 2017, there are more than 197,856 members and affiliates of ASHA. Opportunities ASHA membership brings include access to publications associated with ASHA, to continuing education programs through ASHA, to a platform to network with other CSD professionals, to career-building tools, and to money-saving programs.\n\nASHA sponsors special interest groups (SIGS) within the organization as a means of promoting community and learning in more specialized topics. As of 2016, ASHA has 19 established Special Interest Groups (SIG). These have been added through the years. ASHA members can be a SIG Affiliate of any number of SIGS, with each affiliation requiring nominal yearly dues. The 19 SIGS are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1945504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945504", "title": "Bigos", "text": "Bigos\n\nThe Polish word ' is probably of German origin, but its exact etymology is disputed. According to the Polish loanword dictionary edited by Elżbieta Sobol, it may derive from German ', meaning \"doused\" or \"basted\". Jerzy Bralczyk similarly derives the word from archaic German ', \"sauce\". Aleksander Brückner has proposed German ', \"piece of lead\", as a possible source, referring to a tradition of divining from strangely shaped flakes of molten lead dropped into water. Maria Dembińska rejects this etymology as \"doubtless erroneous\", suggesting instead either archaic German ', \"to chop\", or old German ' (' in modern German), meaning \"mugwort\" (\"Artemisia vulgaris\"), a herb that was popular in medieval cuisine. Andrzej Bańkowski also points to Italian ', or \"pot for cooking soup\", as a possible derivation via German.\n\nThe principal ingredients of ' are assorted kinds of meat chopped into bite-sized chunks and a mixture of sauerkraut (pickled cabbage) and shredded fresh white cabbage. The meats may include pork (ham, shoulder, bacon, ribs, loin, etc.), beef and veal, poultry (chicken, duck, goose, turkey) and game, as well as charcuterie, especially various kinds of ', or Polish smoked sausage. The variety of meats is considered essential for good \"; its preparation may be a good occasion to clean out one's freezer and use up leftovers from other meat dishes. Some of the meats may be roasted before being diced together with other cuts of meat and braised in lard or vegetable oil.\nThe sauerkraut is often rinsed and drained before being chopped and mixed with shredded fresh cabbage. The proportion depends on the sauerkraut's maturity – the longer it has cured, the more sour it tastes, calling for more fresh cabbage to balance the flavor. Traditionally, cabbage was pickled in fall, so \" made at that time could be made with only half-cured sauerkraut, but by early spring, the sauerkraut had to be combined in equal parts with fresh cabbage. The mixture is precooked in a small amount of water before being mixed with the braised meat and left to simmer for several hours. Ideally, the stew should thicken through evaporation alone, but flour, roux, crumbled rye bread or a grated raw potato may be added to it to take up excess moisture.\n\nOther ingredients often added to ' include onions, diced and browned in lard together with the meat, and dried forest mushrooms that are precooked separately in boiling water. The stew is usually seasoned with salt, black peppercorns, allspice, juniper berries and bay leaves. Some recipes also call for caraway, cloves, garlic, marjoram, mustard seeds, nutmeg, paprika and thyme. The tart flavor of sauerkraut may be enhanced by adding some dry red wine or beet sour (fermented beetroot juice that is also a traditional ingredient of borscht), which may impart a reddish hue to the stew. ' is often slightly sweetened with sugar, honey, raisins, prunes or plum butter known in Polish as \".\nTraditionally, ' is stewed in a cauldron over an open fire or in a large pot on a stove, but it may also be prepared in an electric slow cooker. The contents should be stirred from time to time, to prevent scorching, which may impart a bitter taste to the entire batch. ' is considered best after it has been repeatedly refrigerated and reheated to allow the flavors to fuse.\n\nThe flexible and forgiving recipe for \" allows a great number of variants, often simply using what ingredients are at hand. It is often claimed that there are as many recipes as there are cooks in Poland.\n\nIn the region of Greater Poland, ' typically contains tomato paste and is seasoned with garlic and marjoram. Kuyavian ' is often made from red cabbage as well as white. In Silesia, it is usually mixed with ' or ', that is, small plain boiled dumplings made from unleavened dough that contains flour and mashed potatoes. A variant which contains julienned apples, preferably with a winey tart taste, such as Antonovka, is known as Lithuanian \"\" and is typical for the territory of the erstwhile Grand Duchy of Lithuania (now Belarus and Lithuania).\n\nIn ', or \"hunter's '\", at least part of the meat comes from game, such as wild boar, venison or hare. It is usually seasoned with juniper berries, which help neutralize off-flavors that may be found in the meat of wild animals.\n\nAs a dish that does not spoil quickly and only gets tastier with each reheating, ' has been traditionally used as a provision for travellers and campers or consumed at outdoor events, such as a hunt or a carnival sleigh ride known in Polish as '. It may be also eaten indoor, for breakfast, supper or as a hot starter served before soup at a dinner party. It is commonly found on the menus of milk bars, pubs and bistros throughout Poland. \" is particularly associated with major Catholic holidays, such as Christmas and Easter, as it can be prepared in ample quantities beforehand and only reheated on the holiday itself and the following days.\n\nThe stew is typically dished up with rye bread or boiled potatoes. \nIn a fancier setting, it may be served in stoneware bowls, puff pastry shells or bread bowls. ', especially when enjoyed outdoor, is traditionally paired with shots of chilled vodka, either clear or flavored. Varieties of flavored vodka that match well with ' include ' (bison grass), ' (juniper), ' (wormwood), ' (various herbs) and \"\" (oak-aged). If served at home or in a restaurant, the stew may be washed down with beer, red wine or Riesling.\n\nAccording to Polish food historian Maria Dembińska, ' may derive from a medieval dish known in Latin as ', or \"mixture\". It was made from various vegetables, such as cabbage, chard and onions, that were chopped or shredded, layered inside an earthenware three-legged Dutch oven and braised or baked. A remnant of this old procedure may be found in a ' recipe, in which bacon and cabbage are arranged in layers, from the 19th-century Russian cookbook, \"A Gift to Young Housewives\" by Elena Molokhovets. Similar, layered dishes of medieval origin exist in other European cuisines; they include the Italian ' (known in 16th-century Poland under the Polonized name, ') and the Alsatian ' (also known as '), made from cabbage, leftover meats and fruits. They are reminiscent of a rustic Polish casserole, known in various regions as ', etc. It is traditionally made from sliced or diced potatoes, onions, carrots, sausages and bacon arranged in layers inside a cast-iron cauldron greased with lard and lined with cabbage leaves, which is placed in bonfire embers for baking.\nThe word \"'\" is not attested before the 17th century. At that time, it referred to any dish of finely chopped components, usually meat or fish – but no cabbage – doused generously with melted butter and heavily seasoned with sour, sweet and spicy ingredients. , head chef to Prince , who consistently used the diminutive form ', included several recipes for it in his ' (\"A Collection of Dishes\"), the first cookbook published originally in Polish, in 1682. They include ' prepared with chopped capon, hazel grouse, carp, pike, and crawfish with beef marrow. Seasonings that appear in most of these recipes include onions, wine vinegar, lemon or lime juice, verjuice, sorrel, sugar, raisins, black pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves and cumin. A manuscript recipe collection from the family court, dating back to ca. 1686, contains instructions for cooking ' of roast beef, fried fish and even chopped ' (thin pancakes). ' (\"The Perfect Cook\"), a cookbook published by Wojciech Wielądko in 1783, contains recipes for beef, veal, wether mutton, oyster, as well as root vegetable ' (the latter was a mixture of carrots, parsnip, rutabaga and celeriac).\n\n' made entirely of meat and exotic spices was affordable only to the affluent Polish nobility. The 18th century saw the development of a poor man's version of the dish, known as ', or \"rascal's '\", in which vinegar and lemon juice were replaced with cheaper sauerkraut as the source of tartness. Sauerkraut and cabbage also acted as a filler allowing to reduce the amount of meat in the dish. Rascal's ' became common during the reign of King Augustus III of Poland (r. 1734–1763). Over the course of the 19th century, its rise in popularity continued as the proportion of meat decreased in favor of sauerkraut, eventually superseding all other kinds of \" and losing the disparaging epithet in the process.\n\n\" is considered a Polish national dish, which, according to American food historian William Woys Weaver, \"has been romanticized in poetry, discussed in its most minute details in all sorts of literary contexts, and never made in small quantities.\"\n\nThe most famous literary monument to ' can be found in ', a mock-heroic poem venerated as the Polish national epic, extolling the country life of Polish noblemen in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, written by Adam Mickiewicz in 1834. It describes a group of men out in the woods, enjoying the stew of \"wondrous taste, colour and marvellous smell\" after a successful bear hunt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "251118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251118", "title": "Brazilian National Anthem", "text": "Brazilian National Anthem\n\nThe \"Brazilian National Anthem\" () was composed by Francisco Manuel da Silva in 1831 and had been given at least two sets of unofficial lyrics before a 1922 decree by President Epitácio Pessoa gave the anthem its definitive, official lyrics, by Joaquim Osório Duque-Estrada, after several changes were made to his proposal, written in 1909.\n\nThe anthem's lyrics have been described as Parnassian in style and Romantic in content.\n\nThe melody of the Brazilian national anthem was composed by Francisco Manuel da Silva, and was presented to the public for the first time in April 1831. On 7 April 1831, the first Brazilian Emperor, Pedro I, abdicated the Crown and days later left for Europe, leaving behind the then-five-year-old Emperor Pedro II.\n\nFrom the proclamation of the independence of Brazil in 1822 until the 1831 abdication, an anthem that had been composed by Pedro I himself, celebrating the country's independence (and that now continues to be an official patriotic song, the \"Independence Anthem\"), was used as the national anthem. In the immediate aftermath of the abdication of Pedro I, the anthem composed by him fell in popularity.\n\nFrancisco Manuel da Silva then seized this opportunity to present his composition, and the anthem written by him was played in public for the first time on April 13, 1831. On that same day, the ship carrying the former Emperor left the port of Rio de Janeiro. The date of April 13 now appears in official calendars as the \"Day of the Brazilian National Anthem\".\n\nAs to the actual date of composition of the music presented in April 1831, there is controversy among historians. Some hold that Francisco Manuel da Silva composed the music in the last four months of 1822 to commemorate Brazil's independence (declared on 7 September 1822), others hold that the hymn was written in early 1823 and others consider the evidence of composition dating back to 1822 or 1823 unreliable, and hold that the Anthem presented on 13 April 1831 was written in 1831, and not before. In any event, the Anthem remained in obscurity until it was played in public on 13 April 1831. In style, the music resembles early Romantic Italian music such as that of Gioachino Rossini.\n\nInitially, the music composed by Francisco Manuel da Silva was given lyrics by Appeals Judge Ovídio Saraiva de Carvalho e Silva not as a national anthem, but as a hymn commemorating the abdication of Pedro I and the accession of Pedro II to the Throne. It was known during this early period as \"April 7 Hymn\". The lyrics by Ovídio Saraiva soon fell out of use, given that they were considered poor, and even offensive towards the Portuguese. The music, however, continued enjoying sustained popularity, and by 1837 it was played, without lyrics, in all public ceremonies.\n\nAlthough no statute was passed during the imperial period to declare Francisco Manuel da Silva's musical composition as the national anthem, no formal enactment was considered necessary for the adoption of a national anthem. A national anthem was seen as resulting from praxis or tradition. Thus, by 1837, when it was played in all official solemnities, Francisco Manuel da Silva's composition was already the Brazilian National Anthem.\n\nA new set of lyrics was proposed in 1841, to commemorate the coming of age and Coronation of Emperor Pedro II; those lyrics, popular but also considered poor, were soon abandoned too, this time by order of Emperor Pedro II, who specified that in public ceremonies the anthem should be played with no lyrics. Emperor Pedro II directed that Francisco Manuel da Silva's composition, as the national anthem of the Empire of Brazil, should be played, without lyrics, on all occasions when the monarch presented himself in public, and in solemnities of military or civilian nature; the composition was also played abroad in diplomatic events relating to Brazil or when the Brazilian Emperor was present.\n\nDuring the Empire of Brazil era, the U.S. composer and pianist Louis Moreau Gottschalk, then residing in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, composed two nationalistic works of classical music based on the Brazilian National Anthem that achieved great popularity during the imperial period: the \"Brazilian Solemn March\" (\"Marcha Solene Brasileira\", in the modern Portuguese spelling or \"Marcha Solemne Brazileira\", in the original spelling in force at the time of composition) and the \"Great Triumphal Fantasy on the Brazilian National Anthem\" (\"Grande Fantasia Triunfal sobre o Hino Nacional Brasileiro\"). The former was dedicated to Emperor Pedro II, and the latter was dedicated to his heiress presumptive, the Princess Imperial Isabel, comtesse d'Eu. Those works are in the vein of similar compositions written at the time in other Nations, such as Charles Gounod's \"Fantasy on the Russian National Anthem\". The \"Grand Triumphal Fantasy\", long forgotten, resurfaced in popularity in 1985, at the dawn of Brazil's \"New Republic\", during the country's re-democratization process, when it was played to accompany the funeral cortège of President Tancredo Neves.\n\nAfter the Proclamation of the Republic in 1889, the new rulers made a competition in order to choose a new anthem, and the competition was won by a music composed by Leopoldo Miguez, with lyrics by Medeiros e Albuquerque. After protests against the adoption of the proposed new anthem, however, the Head of the Provisional Government, Deodoro da Fonseca, formalized Francisco Manuel da Silva's composition as the national anthem, while the composition by Miguez and Medeiros e Albuquerque was declared the Anthem of the Proclamation of the Republic. Dedoro himself was said to prefer the old anthem to the new composition that became the anthem of the Proclamation of the Republic. The Decree of the Provisional Government (Decree 171 of 1890) confirming Francisco Manuel da Silva's music, that had served as the National Anthem of the Empire of Brazil, as the National Anthem of the new Republic, was issued on 20 January 1890.\n\nIn the early days of the new Federal Republic, the National Anthem continued without official lyrics, but several lyrics were proposed, and some were even adopted by different states of Brazil. The lack of uniform, official lyrics would only be terminated in 1922, during the celebrations of the first centennial of the Proclamation of Independence, when an adapted version of Joaquim Osório Duque Estrada's lyrics, first proposed in 1909, were deemed official.\n\nThe official lyrics of the Brazilian National Anthem were proclaimed by decree of President Epitácio Pessoa (Decree 15.761 of 1922), issued on 6 September 1922, at the height of the celebrations of the Independence Centennial. This presidential decree was issued in accordance with authorization contained in a legislative decree adopted by Congress on 21 August 1922. Furthermore, as allowed by the said legislative decree, and before the President of the Republic issued his decree proclaiming the official adoption of Joaquim Osório Duque Estrada's lyrics as the official lyrics of the National anthem, the Federal Government finalized the purchase of the lyrics written by Duque Estrada, signing with the composer the contract that transferred all the rights of authorship over the said lyrics to the Federal Union, and paying the agreed price of 5:000$ (five \"contos\" of réis). \n\nOn 7 September 1922, on the exact day of the Independence Centennial, radio broadcasts began in Brazil, and the first broadcast was the performance of the National Anthem with the new lyrics, followed by the speech by President Epitácio Pessoa, the first radio address by a Brazilian President.\n\nThe national anthem is considered by the current Constitution of Brazil, adopted in 1988, to be one of the four national symbols of the country, along with the Flag, the Coat of Arms and the National Seal. The legal norms currently in force concerning the national anthem are contained in a statute passed in 1971 (Law 5.700 of 1 September 1971), regulating the national symbols. This law regulates in great detail the form of the national anthem and how and when it is to be played.\n\nThe music of the national anthem was originally intended to be played by symphonic orchestras; for the playing of the anthem by bands, the march composed by Antão Fernandes is included in the instrumentation. This adaptation, long in use, was made official by the 1971 statute regulating national symbols. This same statute also confirmed as official the traditional vocal adaptation of the lyrics of the national anthem, in F major, composed by Alberto Nepomuceno.\n\nDue to the fact that the traditional vocal adaptation composed by Alberto Nepomuceno for Joaquim Osorio Duque Estrada's lyrics of the national anthem was made official in 1971, other vocal arrangements (as well as other instrumental arrangements departing from the one recognized in law) are unofficial. Because of that, for the remainder of the Military Regime era (that lasted until 1985), the playing of the anthem with any artistic arrangement that departed from the official orchestration and vocal adaptation was prohibited, and there was strict vigilance regarding the use of the National Symbols and the enforcement of this norm. Since the redemocratization of the country, far greater artistic liberty has been allowed regarding renderings of the national anthem. Singer Fafá de Belém's interpretation of the national anthem (initially criticized during the final days of the Military Regime, but now widely accepted), is an example of that. In any event, although the use of different artistic arrangements for the anthem is now permitted (and although the statutory norms that prohibited such arrangements are no longer enforced, on the grounds of constitutional freedom of expression), a rendering of the national anthem is only considered fully official when the statutory norms regarding the vocal adaptation and orchestration are followed. However, the traditional vocal adaptation composed by Alberto Nepomuceno was so well established by the time it became official that the interpretations of the national anthem that depart from the official orchestration or from the official vocal adaptation are few. Indeed, although other arrangements are now allowed, the traditional form tends to prevail, so that, with few exceptions, even celebrity singers tend to only lend their voices to the singing of the official vocal adaptation by Alberto Nepomuceno.\n\nThe anthem is sung in Brazil's official national language, the Portuguese language.\n\nThe song consists of two consecutive stanzas. The adoption in 1922 of lyrics containing two stanzas thus created the present situation of the music of the anthem being played twice so as to allow for the singing of both stanzas.\n\nBrazilian law stipulates that the music needs to be played only once in instrumental renditions of the anthem without vocal accompaniment (thus, in instrumental renditions without vocal accompaniment, the playing of the music twice is optional), but both stanzas must be sung in vocal performances.\n\nThe second stanza is often dropped when played at sporting events, as most renditions of the Brazilian National Anthem for sporting events are instrumental and not vocal.\n\nIn the lyrics, the opening line's mention of the Ipiranga river refers to the stream near (and now part of) the city of São Paulo where Prince Dom Pedro, the future Emperor Dom Pedro I of Brazil, declared Brazilian independence from Portugal.\n\n(*) The passages in quotation marks were extracted from Gonçalves Dias' poem \"Canção do exílio\".\n\nThis is the meaning of the terms used in the lyrics of the hymn:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "649232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649232", "title": "Cadency", "text": "Cadency\n\nIn heraldry, cadency is any systematic way of distinguishing otherwise identical coats of arms belonging to members of the same family. Cadency is necessary in heraldic systems in which a given design may be owned by only one person at once, generally the head of the senior line of a particular family. Because heraldic designs may be used by sons whilst their father is still alive, some form of differencing may be required so as not to usurp the father's arms, known as the undifferenced or \"plain coat\". Historically arms were only heritable by males and therefore cadency marks have no relevance to daughters, except in the modern era in Canadian and Irish heraldry. These differences are formed by adding to the arms small and inconspicuous marks called brisures, similar to charges but smaller. They are placed on the fess-point, or in-chief in the case of the label. Brisures are generally exempt from the rule of tincture. One of the best examples of usage from the medieval period is shown on the seven Beauchamp cadets in the stained-glass windows of St Mary's Church, Warwick.\n\nHistorically, it was recognised that there was a need to difference the arms of the head of the family from those of cadets. This need was recognised in Europe during the 14th century; various means to accomplish this were utilized.\n\nPresently, differencing arms for those entitled to is generally rarely done in Continental Europe. It is only in Scotland where the need to difference cadets is enforced.\n\nIn heraldry's early period, uniqueness of arms was obtained by a wide variety of ways, including:\n\nSee Armorial of Capetians and Armorial of Plantagenet for an illustration of the variety.\n\nSystematic cadency schemes later developed in England and Scotland, but while in England they are voluntary (and not always observed), in Scotland they are enforced through the statutorily required process of matriculation in the Public Register.\n\nThe English system of cadency involves the addition of these brisures to the plain coat:\n\n\nDaughters have no special brisures, and normally use their father's arms on a lozenge, together with any marks of cadency their father may use. This is because English heraldry has no requirement that women's arms be unique. On marriage, they impale their father's arms to the sinister with those of their husband to the dexter, unless the woman happens to be a heraldic heiress, into which case her father's arms are borne on an inescutcheon on her husband's arms.\n\nIn England, arms are generally the property of their owner from birth - subject to the use of the appropriate mark of cadency. In other words, it is not necessary to wait for the death of the previous generation before arms are inherited.\n\nThe eldest son of an eldest son uses a label of five points. Other grandchildren combine the brisure of their father with the relevant brisure of their own, which would in a short number of generations lead to confusion (because it allows an uncle and nephew to have the same cadency mark) and complexity (because of an accumulation of cadency marks to show, for example, the fifth son of a third son of a second son). However, in practice cadency marks are not much used in England and, even when they are, it is rare to see more than one or, at most, two of them on a coat of arms.\n\nAt times arms with a cadency mark may be used on a hereditary basis: for instance, the arms of the Earls Russell are those of the Duke of Bedford differenced by a mullet, as the 1st Earl was the third son of the 6th Duke.\n\nAlthough textbooks on heraldry (and articles like this one) always agree on the English system of cadency set out above, most heraldic examples (whether on old bookplates, church monuments, silver and the like) ignore cadency marks altogether. Oswald Barron, in an influential article on Heraldry in the 1911 edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", noted:\n\nNor have cadency marks usually been insisted upon by the College of Arms (the heraldic authority for England, Wales and formerly Ireland). For example, the College of Arms website (as of June 2006), far from insisting on any doctrine of \"One man one coat\" suggested by some academic writers, says:\n\nIt does not say that such marks \"must\" be used.\n\nIn correspondence published in the Heraldry Society's newsletter, Garter King of Arms Peter Gwynn-Jones firmly rejected a suggestion that cadency marks should be strictly enforced. He said:\n\nIn a second letter published at the same time, he wrote:\n\nThe system is very different in Scotland, where every male user of a coat of arms may only use arms recorded (or \"matriculated\") in the Public Register with a personal variation, appropriate to that person's position in their family, approved by the Lord Lyon (the heraldic authority for Scotland). This means that in Scotland no two men can ever simultaneously bear the same arms, even by accident, if they have submitted their position to the Scottish heraldic authorities (which not all do in practice, in Scotland as in England); if they have not done so, the matter falls under statute law and may result in proceedings in the Lyon Court, which is part of the Scots criminal justice system. To this extent, the law of arms is stricter in Scotland than in England where the only legal action possible is a civil action in the Court of Chivalry, which sits extremely rarely and is not an integrated part of the English justice system.\n\nScotland, like England, uses the label of three points for the eldest son (or heir presumptive) and a label of five points for the eldest son of the eldest son, and allows the label to be removed as the bearer of the plain coat dies and the eldest son succeeds.\nFor cadets other than immediate heirs, Scottish cadency uses a complex and versatile system, applying different kinds of changes in each generation. First, a bordure is added in a different tincture for each brother. In subsequent generations the bordure may be divided in two tinctures; the edge of the bordure, or of an ordinary in the base coat, may be changed from straight to indented, engrailed or invected; charges may be added. These variations allow the family tree to be expressed clearly and unambiguously. (The system outlined here is a very rough version that gives a flavour of the real thing).\n\nIn the Scots heraldic system (which has little to do with the clan system), only one bearer of any given surname may bear plain arms. Other armigerous persons with the same surname usually have arms derived from the same plain coat; though if actual kinship cannot be established, they must be differenced in a way other than the cadency system mentioned above. This is quite unlike the English system, in which the surname of an armiger is generally irrelevant.\n\nCanadian cadency generally follows the English system. However, since in Canadian heraldry a coat of arms must be unique regardless of the bearer's sex, Canada has developed a series of brisures for daughters unique to Canada:\n\n\nThe actual practice in Canada is far from the rigidity suggested by the list of differences above - and is best seen in action in the Canadian Public Register - see for example the coats of various Armstrongs, Ravignats and Bradfords.\n\nPersonal arms registered at the Bureau of Heraldry may be differenced upon matriculation (which is voluntary). Current policy is that younger children's arms must be differenced if they are matriculated. Methods used include the English and Scottish systems, the substitution of different charges, the changing of lines, and the changing of tinctures and or adding a border to the shield.\n\nThe brisures used in the arms granted by the Chief Herald of the Republic of Ireland are identical to the brisures used by the system used in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, but unlike the English system, which only uses these brisures for the sons of an armiger in order of birth, the Irish system applies them to all the children of the armiger, irrespective of sex, and, as illegitimacy has no place in Irish heraldry, these marks are assigned to (recognised) children born outside of marriage as well as inside.\n\nThere are no actual \"rules\" for members of the royal family, because their arms are theoretically decided \"ad hoc\" by the monarch. In practice, however, a number of traditions are practically invariably followed. At birth, members of the royal family have no arms. At some point during their lives, generally at the age of eighteen, they may be granted arms of their own. These will always be the \"arms of dominion\" of the monarch with a label argent for difference; the label may have three or five points. Since this is in theory a new grant, the label is applied not only to the shield but also to the crest and the supporters to ensure uniqueness. Though \"de facto\" in English heraldry the crest is uncharged (although it is supposed to be in theory), as it would accumulate more and more cadency marks with each generation, the marks eventually becoming indistinguishable, the crests of the royal family are always shown as charged.\n\nEach Prince of Wales uses a plain white label and (since 1911) an inescutcheon of the ancient arms of the Principality of Wales. Traditionally, the other members of the family have used a stock series of symbols (cross of Saint George, heart, anchor, fleur-de-lys, etc.) on the points of the label to ensure that their arms differ. The labels of the Duke of Cambridge and Duke of Sussex have one or more scallop shells taken from the arms of their mother, Diana, Princess of Wales; this is sometimes called an innovation but in fact the use of maternal charges for difference is a very old practice, illustrated in the \"border of France\" (\"azure semé-de-lys or\") borne by John of Eltham, Earl of Cornwall (1316–36), younger son of Edward II of England and Isabella of France.\n\nIt is often said that labels argent are a peculiarly royal symbol, and that eldest sons outside the royal family should use labels of a different colour, usually gules.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, marks of cadency were used extensively by armigers in France, as can be seen in the Armorial de Gelre. By the eighteenth century, such marks were no longer used by the members of armigerous families, but were still used extensively by the members of the French Royal Family.\n\nThe French Revolution of 1789 had a profound impact on heraldry, and heraldry was abolished in 1790, to be restored in 1808 by Napoleon I. However, Napoleon's heraldic system did not use marks of cadency either; the decree of March 3, 1810 (art. 11) states: \"The name, arms and livery shall pass from the father to all sons\" although the distinctive marks of Napoleonic titles could pass only to the sons who inherited them.\n\nNo subsequent regime in France ever promulgated any legislation regarding marks of difference in heraldry, so they remain unused (except in the heraldry of Sovereign Houses, such as the former Royal family, as can be seen below, or the House of Lorraine).\n\nExamples of cadency:\n\nThe royal arms of France featured golden fleurs-de-lys on a blue field (Azure, semy-de-lys Or). King Charles V simplified it to three fleurs-de-lys on a blue field (Azure, three fleurs-de-lys Or).\n\nThe sons of Louis VIII and Blanche of Castile used golden castles on a red background (derived from the arms of Castile) as charges to difference their arms: for Robert, a label; for Alphonse, a semy of castles; for Charles, a bordure. This initial system of differencing was dropped in favor of a longer-lasting simpler system. Charles, the youngest son of Louis VIII, changed his arms in favor of the arms of France with a plain label gules.\n\nThe simpler system primarily used four marks of difference: the label, the bordure, the bend, and the bordure engrailed. The tinctures used were gules; a compony of argent and gules; and argent. They occasionally came up with more unusual forms, such as a bordure-label gules and a bordure gules charged with eight plates.\n\nInitially, the arms were attributed to the cadet. Thus, even when Philip the Bold exchanged his appanage of Touraine in favor of Burgundy, he retained the arms he had received as Duke of Touraine (but quartered it with the arms of Burgundy). Another example will be Charles, younger brother of Louis XI. By the seventeenth century, the arms became associated with titles. The bordure gules was associated with Anjou, and the label argent with Orléans. Thus, when a cadet exchanged his appanage, his arms changed.\n\nGerman noble houses did not use cadency marks as systematically as their European peers . A nobleman's sons were not generally obliged or expected not to bear their father's arms and often did just so.\n\nThe most common means of differencing was the use of different heraldic crests to mark apart otherwise identical achievements borne by different branches of a family. Other, less frequent forms include counter-changing or the replacement of individual tinctures, or the addition of ordinaries. Bordures and labels were used occasionally, though not doctrinally. Perhaps the most prominent German family to adopt a system of bordures was the House of Hohenzollern.\n\nAs a result of the Holy Roman Empire's heavy fragmentation, which form saw more prominent use and when was also influenced by general trends and geographic proximity; for example, the heraldic tradition of the Low Countries and the Rhineland saw a great deal of influence by its French neighbor.\n\nThe following heraldic system was adopted by a royal decree in 1815 and would last until 1907.\n\nSince 1907, the system has differed. Wilhelmina further decreed that in perpetuity her descendants should be styled \"princes and princesses of Orange-Nassau\" and that the name of the house would be \"Orange-Nassau\" (in Dutch \"Oranje-Nassau\"). Since then, individual members of the House of Orange-Nassau are also given their own arms by the reigning monarch, similar to the United Kingdom. This is usually the royal arms, quartered with the arms of the principality of Orange, and an in escutcheon of their paternal arms. \n\nSince 1907, There is no system to delineate individual princes and princesses via their arms.\n\nThe Portuguese systems of differencing have their origins in the regulations of King Manuel I, who ruled Portugal from 1485 to 1521. There are two systems, one for the non-Royal families and the other for the Royal House.\n\nThe Portuguese system of differentiation for the noble non-Royal families is unlike any other cadency system. It is true that the bruiser personalises the arms, however, since the Portuguese have an arbitrary choice of surnames, they may select any family name from the father's or mother's side of their genealogical table and a coat of arms, which does not have to coincide with it. Thus, the system of differencing only serves to show from which ancestral line the arms are derived. The head of the lineage uses the arms without a difference, but should he be the head of more than one family, the arms are combined by quartering. The heir apparent to the arms of the head of a lineage never uses a mark of difference.\n\n"}
{"id": "50401093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50401093", "title": "Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered", "text": "Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered\n\nCall of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered is a first-person shooter video game developed by Raven Software and published by Activision. A remastered version of \"\", it was released worldwide on November 4, 2016 for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Microsoft Windows. It is available as a bundle with either the Legacy, Digital Deluxe or Legacy Pro editions of \"\", with physical versions requiring the \"Infinite Warfare\" disc inserted to access the remaster. A standalone edition of the game was released on June 27, 2017 for the PlayStation 4, and July 27, 2017 for Xbox One and Microsoft Windows.\n\n\"Modern Warfare Remastered\" began as a result of a fan-made petition, with Raven Software being approached to develop a remaster of \"Modern Warfare\", having previously assisted on the development of multiplayer modes for past installments in the series. \"Remastered\" builds upon the original by featuring extensive graphical, rendering, and lighting enhancements, updated animations, remastering original sound effects as well as adding new, and offers numerous small improvements while retaining the original core gameplay. Extras such as new multiplayer content and additional achievements and cheats are also included.\n\nUpon release, \"Modern Warfare Remastered\" received positive reviews. Praise was given for the significantly improved graphics, sound, and range of enhancements, in addition to the gameplay for having aged well and providing challenge. While critics overall felt the game was fresh and grounded in realism, some criticized the dated narrative and the shallowness of the multiplayer (although new online content would later be distributed through post-release updates). Further complaints focused on certain design choices retained from \"Modern Warfare\" and the artificial intelligence. \"Remastered\" was also the subject of controversy for Activision's decisions to initially only release it as part of a bundle, the incorporation of microtransactions, and the determined pricing of the downloadable content and standalone version of the game.\n\n\"Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered\" features the same core gameplay as the original version, which is a first-person shooter that has the player take control of several characters, however it includes several minor modifications. While in the prone position, the player's equipped weapon is now visible, and during the act of crawling, the gamepad will give feedback as the gun makes contact with the ground. The game utilizes \"dual render technology\" for sniper rifle scopes when aiming, providing the player with a view of the scope and blurred surroundings, as opposed to a black screen representing the scope interior present in the original. Throughout the campaign, new predetermined first-person animations are present on a few occasions, for example, when removing a non-player character's bonds during one of the levels. Pressing down on the gamepad's D-pad in multiplayer when a weapon is equipped will initiate a brief animation to \"taunt\" opponents, such as allowing the player to inspect the exterior of their gun.\n\nThe campaign is all but identical to the original. It keeps the same collectibles and cheats as before, with the addition of several new cheats, such as exaggerated physics that fling enemies backwards as they are killed, and replacing the heads of non-player characters with watermelons. The game offers full PlayStation Network trophy and Xbox Live achievement support (trophies of which had been absent from the PlayStation 3 version of \"Modern Warfare,\" due to the game releasing before they were introduced), with the inclusion of several new challenges.\n\n\"Remastered\" features an updated version of the multiplayer that shares similarities with those featured in later \"Call of Duty\" games. It includes the same weapons, killstreaks, perks, and game modes from \"Modern Warfare\", with existing modes present in other installments included such as \"Kill Confirmed\", \"Gun Game\" and \"Hardpoint\", as well as new modes like \"Prop Hunt\" (in which players hide as inanimate objects from the opposing team). The multiplayer offers a greater variety of customization options for profile personalization, character skins, and weapon camouflage. A number of weapons not featured in \"Modern Warfare\" were also added. All new content can be unlocked through completing challenges, crafting by consuming \"Parts\" that the player can earn, or by opening supply drops, while existing items from the original remain unlockable only through gaining in experience. The online includes 20 prestige levels, an increase from the 10 available in \"Modern Warfare\". Entering each new prestige level resets any unlockables that have been previously made available, but retains all customization items, in addition to any weapons, attachments, or perks that have been permanently unlocked.\nA firing range is present in the online lobby, allowing the player to test out different weapon loadouts.\n\n\"Modern Warfare Remastered\" features the same plot as the original game. The player acts as a member of the United States Marine Corps and the SAS and takes on missions to fight against a separatist group in the Middle East as well as an ultranationalist group in Russia.\n\nWhile the United States invades a small, oil rich Middle Eastern country following a coup d'état by the extremist Khaled Al-Asad, a British Special Air Service (SAS) squad infiltrates a cargo ship found to be carrying a nuclear device. The ship is sunk by enemy jets, but the SAS team escapes with its manifest, and then heads to Russia to rescue their informant, codenamed \"Nikolai\", from the Ultranationalist party. The intelligence from these operations indicate Al-Asad has a Russian nuclear device. The U.S. military launches an assault on Al-Asad's palace, but the nuclear device is detonated, wiping out most of the city along with everyone in it.\n\nThe SAS team tracks down Al-Asad in Azerbaijan, and discover that he was working with Imran Zakhaev, the leader of the Ultranationalist party. The mission then flashes back 15 years where Captain Price, who was a Lieutenant at the time, is sent alongside his commanding officer, Captain MacMillan, on a failed assassination attempt on Imran Zakhaev in Pripyat, Ukraine. After killing Al-Asad, the SAS team, with support from U.S. Marine Force Recon and Russian loyalists, attempt to capture Zakhaev's son and learn his whereabouts. They ambush him, but he commits suicide. In response, Zakhaev seizes control of a nuclear launch facility. A joint operation is launched to take back the site, but Zakhaev launches intercontinental ballistic missiles at the U.S. Eastern Seaboard. The joint teams are able to breach the facility and remotely destroy the missiles before fleeing the area.\n\nZakhaev's forces trap the escaping joint force on a bridge, and during the fight many are killed. Zakhaev arrives and begins executing wounded soldiers, when a loyalist helicopter arrives and distracts him. The player uses their pistol to kill Zakhaev.\n\nThe player mainly controls British Special Air Service (SAS) recruit Sergeant John \"Soap\" MacTavish for most of the game, starting with his enrollment in the 22nd SAS Regiment. The player also controls United States Marine Corps (USMC) Sergeant Paul Jackson during five of the levels on Act 1. Captain John Price (voiced by actor Billy Murray) is an SAS officer who is playable in two flashback missions from 1996 in which he is still Lieutenant. The player also assumes the role of an American thermal-imaging TV operator aboard a Lockheed AC-130 gunship during one level, and a British SAS operative infiltrating a hijacked airliner to save a VIP in a secret level titled \"Mile High Club\". Finally, the player may control Yasir Al-Fulani, the president of the unnamed Middle Eastern country in the game before he is executed, although he has no freedom of action beyond turning his head.\n\nAfter an online petition signed by fans of \"Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare\" was released requesting that a remaster of the game be developed, series publisher Activision became interested in carrying out such a project. The company approached Raven Software, who had developed multiplayer modes for several \"Call of Duty\" titles in the past, to be the primary developer, overseen by Infinity Ward who would act as executive producer. Raven's studio director David Pellas recalled that \"not a single person at Raven turned away and said no. It was a universal, \"yeah, we’re there.\"\" Development of \"Modern Warfare Remastered\" began in early 2015.\n\nThe developers had pledged to focus on four key areas throughout development: respecting the original game, modernizing the visuals and audio, improving the overall experience with new technology, and redefining what the term \"remaster\" meant. The majority of \"Modern Warfare\" was consequently \"rebuilt from the ground up\" for \"Remastered\" through the revitalisation of the original's source codes, materials, layouts, and effects that Raven were given access to from Infinity Ward. The game runs in full 1080p resolution at 60 frames per second and uses the latest iteration of the series' game engine that was present at the time.\n\nRaven wanted the game to provide a nostalgic experience for fans of \"Modern Warfare\", while introducing it to newcomers by connecting them to a world that they were used to in recent \"Call of Duty\" games, albeit one that mirrored reality. Pellas noted that the risk of negative fan reactions resulting from any small changes made to the original and the desire to meet high expectations was daunting for Raven, saying \"There was a realization that this is freaking terrifying, because it's not just important to us\". To assist in their decision-making, they reviewed a large number of internet forums where active players of \"Modern Warfare\" could be found in order to understand what they would want from a re-release of the game. Raven were encouraged by their principle of keeping the core gameplay unchanged, a decision that remained consistent throughout the process as respecting the experience of the original was essential. Subtle improvements were made to both the controls and timing of existing animations, such as the transition between aiming a sniper rifle and the scope overlay appearing, but were designed to be as close to identical as possible.\n\nIn order to bring \"Modern Warfare\"s visuals up to modern standards, enhancements of the environments and vistas were achieved using a procedure called \"Paint-over\", with a larger amount of onscreen objects and effects being integrated into them. Raven also wanted to give the environments a sense of place and history to avoid feeling generic. The vast majority of objects were remodeled, with the game using improved texture depth, physically-based rendering, and light-reflection; and additional features such as realistic physics and joints employed for movable objects like character models. Raven paid close attention to improving every gun in the game because, as a developer explained, \"We needed to take the weapons up to the same level of personality as the characters\"; each received better dynamics, alterations made to their firing mechanisms, and a new feature in the series that allowed each type to eject shell casings unique to that weapon. Raven faced some issues during the remastering of the game's graphics as the remaster used a heavily upgraded version of the series' engine. As a result, this meant that several of \"Modern Warfare\"s visual assets were not compatible with the new technology, so the developers were necessitated to remake them. Most of the existing motion capture animation was redone for the same reason, as well as to provide further story exposition. The campaign saw a number of new first-person animations similarly added for further immersion and emotional responses from players, and to improve how the camera made use of the player character's body, enhancing the \"body sense\". Pellas said, \"I think that for [the single-player] campaign, we were definitely more liberal with our animations and additions, as long as they enhanced the true intent of the moment.\" The artificial intelligence of non-player characters was also improved to respond more realistically with the environment, and vice versa, such as long grass reacting to the player character's presence.\n\nThe existing audio was remastered using reverberation, depth, and spatial effects to enhance the overall ambiance of the game; one example a developer from Raven made note of is that \"Layering out multiple sounds now makes a big difference\". A range of other sound effects that were not present in \"Modern Warfare\" were also used, including unused audio channels that had been created for the original, but due to restraints had not been included during its development. The original music and voice performances were retained, with the exception of the campaign dialogue spoken by Al-Asad in Arabic which was amended and re-recorded, and a slight alteration in the voice acting for Zakhaev during part of a speech.\n\nIn addition to these updates, the game received an array of new features. A few new cheats were incorporated into the game's campaign, while keeping the same cheats and intel file collectibles from the original. The multiplayer initially remained largely unchanged in terms of content from \"Modern Warfare\". Ten of the original sixteen maps were featured at launch, while the remaining six were released as a free update several weeks later, due to the developers being unable to meet the proposed deadline. The multiplayer began to receive support over the following months, during which a wide range of new items was released to bring it more in line with recent \"Call of Duty\" installments: from December 2016, a supply drop and crafting system was introduced along with an expanded array of customization items such as emblems, calling cards, character skins, and new varieties of weapon camouflage. Further guns and melee weapons were also incorporated in the time since release. Some of the content, namely new game modes and variants of existing maps, were exclusive to the game's various temporary playlists and seasonal events.\n\nNews of \"Modern Warfare Remastered\" was leaked on Reddit on April 27, 2016 prior to its announcement. The leak revealed a screenshot of a reservation card for the online store Target that included the Legacy Edition of \"Infinite Warfare\" and the bundled remaster. \"Call of Duty\"s official Twitter account responded with an emoji tweet later that day, seemingly confirming that a remaster of \"Modern Warfare\" existed.\n\n\"Remastered\" was officially announced at E3 2016, showing an extended trailer for its campaign, following a gameplay reveal for \"Infinite Warfare\". After the trailer, it was revealed that PlayStation 4 users who pre-purchased (as opposed to pre-ordered) an edition of \"Infinite Warfare\" that came with the remaster would be able to play \"Remastered\"s campaign 30 days earlier, as part of Sony's exclusivity deal with Activision. A gameplay video for the game's \"Crew Expendable\" mission was released online on July 14, 2016, displaying the improved graphics, lighting, and textures, as well as upgraded models and animations. The game's multiplayer mode was revealed during the convention, and attendees were able to play it first with others. In September 2016, official trailers were released for the campaign and multiplayer.\n\n\"Modern Warfare Remastered\" was released worldwide on November 4, 2016 for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Microsoft Windows, alongside the Legacy, Digital Deluxe and Legacy Pro editions of \"\". At the time, the game was only available by purchasing a premium version of \"Infinite Warfare\", with physical versions requiring the \"Infinite Warfare\" disc inserted to access the remaster. \"Remastered\" was later released standalone for PlayStation 4 on June 27, 2017, and for Xbox One and Microsoft Windows on July 27, 2017. Activision confirmed that premium versions of \"Infinite Warfare\" must be permanently installed in order to use the included remaster.\n\nOn March 8, 2017, it was announced that a remastered version of the Variety Map Pack, originally released for \"Modern Warfare\", would be made available for \"Remastered\". It includes the same four maps, \"Killhouse\", \"Chinatown\", \"Creek\", and \"Broadcast\", as well as 10 rare supply drops. The map pack was released as a separate purchase on March 21, 2017 for PlayStation 4, and on April 20, 2017 for Xbox One and Microsoft Windows, not being included with any retail versions of \"Remastered\".\n\n\"Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered\" received \"generally favorable reviews\", according to review aggregator Metacritic. The game was awarded the accolade for \"Best Remaster\" of 2016 from IGN.\n\nJoey Thurmond of \"Push Square\" wrote how playing through the campaign from \"Modern Warfare\" reminded him of its sheer memorability and how it had long endured with fans compared with other games in the series, saying \"there's tension and gravity shot through the experience, as if the world is on your shoulders to push past every enemy line with explosive bravado or exacting stealth.\" He praised the game's graphical enhancements, saying \"\"Modern Warfare Remastered\" looks and sounds like a fresh game on par with today's graphical and aural standards\" and calling it a \"ridiculously faithful remake\", but wrote that the game still showed some slight signs of age, such as artificial intelligence problems and pacing issues. In short, he commended Raven Software \"for arguably delivering the most substantial, masterful remake we have ever experienced\", and that \"\"Modern Warfare Remastered\" celebrates this legacy with updated visuals and sound that really go above and beyond the call of duty, sprucing up an old care package for a more modern age to near-perfection.\"\n\nKallie Plagge at IGN remarked how the remaster wasn't as revolutionary a game when compared with the original, and that certain aspects, such as the pacing and level design, felt notably dated. She praised the range of visual and technical improvements compared with other remasters, although criticized some minor shortcomings with regards to both graphical and design elements. Despite this, she complimented the gameplay as having held up remarkably well and which was more gratifying as a result of being unaltered, stating how it left her \"feeling relatively weighed down, encumbered, and more desperate in the fray.\" She thought the game felt more classic rather than outdated, saying that \"It might not have the same effect it did the first time around, but it works as both a great embodiment of what shooters used to be and one that still plays well.\"\n\n\"Destructoid\"s Chris Carter was positive of all the changes made to the original that showcased Raven's efforts, but stated that the game was still at its core one from 2007. He cited the story as an example, saying that the game's campaign was still worth playing despite having been topped by its competition. Carter further noted that the cast were \"nothing more than warm bodies at points\", although opined that the crux of the story and the relationship between main protagonist Soap and Captain Price was \"worth the price of admission\". Alternatively, he found the multiplayer to be timeless, and that the design of each map held up well and felt justified. He compared the mode to those offered by other first-person shooter games, stating \"There's a nice, comfortable balance between the two philosophies, to the point where it's not too alienating for folks who didn't grow up with twichy FPSes or feel like dedicating the time to learning the ins and outs of breaching and clearing each and every room, knocking on permadeath's door on every match.\"\n\n\"Metro\" complimented the visuals of the remaster, saying that \"The game still doesn't look quite as good as the last couple of Call Of Duty's, but it's extremely close. And whatever else you say about it, on a presentational level this is an excellent remaster.\" The multiplayer they praised for being more pleasingly simple than recent \"Call of Duty\" games and pointed out how it was sure to bring considerable nostalgia to players of \"Modern Warfare\", but nonetheless criticized it for also feeling limited and shallow. They also noted that the remaster inadvertently felt clichéd and overfamiliar due to the original having inspired numerous imitations, although praised the modern-day setting as feeling surprisingly fresh again. Metro summarized their review by saying \"One of the most influential video games of all time gets the remaster it deserves, and is still impressively entertaining after all these years.\"\n\nKevin Dunsmore of \"Hardcore Gamer\" opined that the plot was much more grounded and realistic than other recent titles in the series, writing \"You're not a super soldier stuck in the middle of out-of-this-world set piece, but rather a regular soldier working with a squad to complete objectives.\" He also complimented the multiplayer as feeling fresh, saying \"After years of over-the-top killstreaks, wall-running, and other crazy antics, it's nice to get back to the basics\". However, he stated that the decision to keep many of the design choices intact from \"Modern Warfare\" was both refreshing and a hindrance, such as infinitely-spawning enemies, infamous perks, and a lack of killstreak-countering, finding it \"extremely outdated\" that they hadn't been removed or fixed. Dunsmore heavily praised the visual enhancements on display, saying \"\"Modern Warfare Remastered\" is the most extensive visual upgrade any remaster has ever received yet, being more in line with a remake than an actual remaster\", and concluded by writing \"What Raven has accomplished is impressive, but it has its limits. A few tweaks would have gone a long way to fixing some balancing issues, but for those looking for a blast from the past, this works just fine\".\n\nBefore its standalone version was announced in June 2017, many criticized the decision that \"Modern Warfare Remastered\" would only be available through purchasing a premium version of \"Infinite Warfare\". Critics recognized that \"Remastered\" was more sought-after than \"Infinite Warfare\", due to the contrast in reception of both games, and saw bundling it as anti-consumerist and coercing those into paying more than necessary. Joey Thurmond disagreed with how a re-release of a classic that had shaped both the series' formula and first-person shooter genre in general had been coupled with a new, poorly-received title, calling the choice \"preposterous\" and \"a bullet in the face to consumers\". He argued that selling \"Remastered\" separately would actually benefit Activision, forecasting an eventual influx of pre-owned copies of the bundle being sold, devaluing \"Infinite Warfare\"s worth in the process. \"Forbes\" Paul Tassi described the bundling as being \"a way to essentially blackmail players into picking up a more expensive version of a base game they may not have even wanted (\"Infinite Warfare\") in order to get something they desperately wanted (\"Modern Warfare Remastered\")\", but understood why Activision had made the choice as a result of it being \"pro-money\".\n\nOthers found that the bundling of the games was a sensible business decision, highlighting the risk that the sales of \"Remastered\" could overshadow those of \"Infinite Warfare\" and result in direct competition between the two. Stephen Wright of Gamespresso, meanwhile, agreed with Activision based around the impulsiveness of the \"Call of Duty\" fanbase, writing that many of those who felt discontent towards a new title would still choose to buy it regardless due to the series' popularity; Activision had capitalized on this by releasing the bundle with the knowledge that fans would certainly purchase \"Infinite Warfare\" in order to obtain a remaster of \"Modern Warfare\". While Wright did disagree with having to pay for an unwanted game in order to obtain another, he expressed faith that the bundle would be good value for money.\n\nControversy arose several weeks after the release of \"Remastered\" when Activision incorporated the use of microtransactions into the multiplayer, along with further new content, which had been absent from \"Modern Warfare\". Evidence of micropayments had first been raised some days after release when data miners uncovered hidden weapons within the game's files that indicated their future inclusion. The choice resulted in a backlash from fans, many of whom accused Activision of defiling the memory of \"Modern Warfare\" and exploiting their feelings of nostalgia for profit. Some critics were concerned that Activision would release new items in supply drops that would provide players with gameplay advantages, similar to their approach with other \"Call of Duty\" installments. Connor Murphy at Beyond Entertainment wrote that it \"comparatively blows open Pandora's Box as to what players may encounter\".\n\nGaming journalist Jim Sterling was highly critical of the decision to include microtransactions in the remaster, and asserted that Activision were subsequently helping to set an example for other video game publishers to sell re-releases with new or omitted content at extra cost:\n\nIt's a rerelease of a nine-year-old game that quietly smuggled microtransactions into its online mode, and I can’t believe a concept so ludicrous is a real thing. That's something a parody of the industry would come up with. It's one thing to see the sad normalization of fee-to-pay elements within brand new releases, but to witness them shoveled retroactively into an old beloved title from an age before such trash gained traction? Activision has set the bar for “AAA” avarice – a new height for greed and a new low for the games business overall. [...] Most remasters are sold as complete, definitive editions of the original games, packing in all the downloadable content and expansions that may have followed the initial launch. COD4 is paving the way for publishers to triple down – not just make money by selling an old game with updated visuals, but by tacking on DLC and microtransactions too. Should this pay off, I’ve little doubt that other publishers will attempt it themselves. [...] The rampant, unchecked greed on display is almost impressive in its audacity. To sneak freemium bullshit into a nine-year-old game that leveraged its own fandom to sell a completely different game is a masterstroke of sliminess, a monument to Bobby Kotick's notorious lack of shame.\nFollowing the announcement of the remastered Variety Map Pack in March 2017, Activision was condemned for deciding that the downloadable content would not be available for free. The most common complaints were that the publisher had already generated additional revenue for \"Remastered\" by bundling it with \"Infinite Warfare\" (increasing its cost to more than an individual game) and by including microtransactions; and that as a remaster, which often includes all previously-released DLC from the original, the map pack should have been released alongside \"Remastered\" at launch. Many also asserted that selling the DLC for a higher price than its original release was an unprincipled move. Sterling further slated Activision for charging for the DLC, stating that it was \"incomprehensible\" and that to increase its cost highlighted \"just how far [Activision] can mock its customers and get away with it\", labeling it as the latest scam to befall the game. Erik Kain of \"Forbes\" similarly argued that the DLC should have been available free of charge, maintaining his belief that charging for map packs \"[was] a huge mistake\". However, in a follow-up article, he felt he could sympathize with Activision, writing that it was easier for them to set price points for early and late buyers. He also noted that the remaster was cheap in its contribution to the overall price for the bundle and so further costs for the DLC were justified.\n\nActivision faced further criticism upon revealing that the Variety Map Pack would equally not be sold alongside the standalone version of \"Remastered\". Fans also argued that the standalone itself was overpriced, especially as both its cost and that of the DLC amounted to an almost full-price game; additionally, \"Eurogamer\" and \"GearNuke\" noted that the version bundled with \"Infinite Warfare\" was now selling at a similar price to the standalone version. Kain was understanding of the cost of the standalone, as selling it cheaply would have affronted those who had bought a premium version of \"Infinite Warfare\" for the remaster, but had been almost certain that the game would have included the DLC. Subsequently, he wrote that doing so would have been \"a gesture of good will to the community\" and \"a smart move for the company\". Mic's Jason Faulkner condemned Activision's previous business practices involving \"Remastered\" and considered the standalone version to be \"a bad deal\", criticizing that it was being sold for double that of its cost than when it was bundled with \"Infinite Warfare\", and found it \"ridiculous\" that with the DLC it amounted to almost full-price. As a result, he advised that fans should wait for the game to be reduced in price before buying. Jordan Devore of \"Destructoid\" expressed disinterest in buying the standalone from having to wait six months for its release, while also criticizing the cost, writing \"I might've parted with that much money for it last year, but not now. It's too late.\"\n\nThe Windows version of \"Remastered\" was criticized for suffering from a number of technical issues in the multiplayer, with players also being dissatisfied with the game's available settings. On Steam, it received mostly negative user reviews, with complaints including poor performance, a locked 90 frames per second, insufficient mouse support, numerous hackers, and a low player count. Many players felt that Activision had failed to provide adequate support for PC in favor of the game's console versions, a trait which had also been apparent with previous installments in the series. Consequently, some users suggested that the multiplayer of \"Modern Warfare\" would be a more suitable alternative, which still attracted a sizable amount of players and offered better options for performance, modding and customization.\n"}
{"id": "13757715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13757715", "title": "Campbell's Soup Cans II", "text": "Campbell's Soup Cans II\n\nCampbell's Soup Cans II is a work of art produced in 1969 by Andy Warhol as part of his \"Campbell's Soup Cans\" series. 250 sets of this print were made, and edition #17 is in the collection at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. It consists of ten prints:\n\n"}
{"id": "13904064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13904064", "title": "Center for Research, Evaluation and Awareness of Dyslexia", "text": "Center for Research, Evaluation and Awareness of Dyslexia\n\nThe Center for Research, Evaluation and Awareness of Dyslexia (Center for READing) is a university-based program at Pittsburg State University, Pittsburg, Kansas. It was established in 1996 to:\n\n\nThe Identification and Intervention Program (IIP) is based on two decades worth of research and is the oldest of the programs offered at the \"CARRD\". The purpose of the IIP is to identify children who are at-risk of developing a reading disability, also referred to as dyslexia, as soon as possible and then to provide those children with an appropriate remediation that will help them gain the fundamental skills needed to become competent readers. \n\nThe IIP is used in school systems. It identifies students in the beginning of first grade who are at-risk of developing reading difficulties and then provides them with a research-based reading tutoring program.\n\nThe After School and Summer Program (ASSP) provides individuals with one-on-one remedial phonological and reading instruction. The ASSP serves individuals from four years of age through adult.\n\nThe first step of the ASSP is assessment. The individual is assessed in order to determine specific strengths and weaknesses in regards to basic phonological processing skills. Attentional abilities are also assessed in order to determine if attentional difficulties may be compounding the issue. Once the assessment is complete and the results are analyzed by the CARRD, a training program is constructed to aid the individual in improving deficient skills. The training program typically involves twice weekly tutoring sessions.\n\nFor school-aged children, utilizing the ASSP during the summer can be a great opportunity for the student to enhance phonological processing and reading skills during a time that students typically make minimal academic gains. \n\nOne of the main goals of the ASSP is to help individuals gain phonological awareness. The program aims to close the gap between students who are weak in phonological processing and reading skills and those who are excellent readers. In addition to one-on-one tutoring through the ASSP, parents are encouraged to assist their children at home by practicing skill-building exercises together.\n\nThe Reading Screening is a web-based evaluation used to identify children between the ages of 5 and 12 years who are at-risk for developing or are currently experiencing reading difficulties. The Reading Screening has been used in school systems for the past 15 years and is now available online to parents, teachers, and other professionals. With 15-20% of our nation's children experiencing reading problems or dyslexia, the best way to help is to begin to understand the nature of the individual’s reading difficulties. The Reading Screening provides understanding by identifying the child’s strengths and weaknesses with regard to reading. Once the assessment has been completed, the website generates a \"Summary of Assessment\", which outlines the areas of reading that are creating the most difficulties for the child. The \"Summary of Assessment\" report can be shared with school personnel to plan an appropriate intervention, if intervention is necessary.\n\nEstimates show that approximately 15 to 20% of our nation's children have reading difficulties. These children have the ability to learn to read, but have a specific skill deficit that prevents them from accomplishing this important task. Research indicates that most reading disabled children have a deficiency in phonological processing skills. The IIP was designed to identify and remediate this deficit before it handicaps the child's ability to learn to read.\n\nThe IIP is geared toward children who have the intellectual ability to learn to read, but find the process very difficult or impossible. Children with reading difficulties are at-risk for dropping out of school, parental abuse, poor self-esteem, and are more likely to find their way into the welfare and criminal justice systems. The future of a child with reading difficulties seems to be fairly bleak in our service-oriented society. To be successful in our society, one must not only know how to read, but also do it fairly well. \n\nThe vast majority of children with learning disabilities have reading disabilities as their major deficiency. In fact, many children who are considered learning disabled because of other obstacles also have reading difficulties. In addition, as a member of our ever increasingly complex society, a society in which employment requires literacy, a student who does not graduate from high school, and who has poor reading skills, is likely to be doomed to extremely poor economic realities. \n\nThe eventual cost to society for what might be a preventable difficulty is high. It is imperative that we begin using scientifically generated programs to remediate educational problems. Through the Center for READing, beginning first graders in the Pittsburg, Kansas area are assessed with the 'IIP' and are then provided with the intervention designed to eliminate the barriers that are preventing them from becoming good readers. The impact of the 'IIP' on improving the phonological processing skills of children at-risk for reading disabilities is far reaching. It may be possible to prevent thousands of children from ever experiencing learning and reading disabilities. Although the prevention of learning and reading disabilities is important in its own right, several social problems mentioned above may also be prevented in the process.\n\nAs mentioned above, individuals who use the \"ASSP\" are initially provided with an assessment. This assessment includes the \"Reading Screening\", an assessment of intelligence (IQ test), an attentional assessment (including both a parent check-list and the TOVA test), an auditory screening, and information concerning the individual's medical, developmental, and educational history. When assessing reading difficulties, it is \"imperative\" that the individual receive evaluation in not only reading skills, but also attentional abilities. An individual who is experiencing reading difficultis may be hampered by an attentional difficulty (Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder; ADHD). It is also true that an individual who displays behaviors consistent with ADHD might actually be experiencing reading difficulties.\n\nAs an example, a student learning to read must use considerable cognitive resources and effort to decode print. If that child has poor phonological processing skills and is deficient in decoding, their behavior might look like ADHD when they in fact have reading difficulties. On the other hand, a student with ADHD might not be able to use cognitive resources to decode print due to ADHD. As a result, their behavior might resemble reading difficulties when the true deficiency is ADHD. An individual being assessed at the \"CARRD\" is assessed on several dimensions to gain complete understanding of the individual's strengths and weaknesses.\n\nFehrenbach, L. A., Hurford, D. P., Fehrenbach, C. R., Brannock, R. G. (1998). Developing the emergent literacy of preschool children through a library outreach program. Journal of Youth Services in Libraries, 12, 40-45. \n\nHurford, D. P. (1990). Training phonemic segmentation ability with a phonemic discrimination intervention in second- and third-grade children with reading disabilities. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 23, 564-569. \n\nHurford, D. P. (1991). The possible use of IBM-compatible computers and digital-to-analog conversion to assess children for reading disabilities and to increase their phonemic awareness. Behavior Research Methods, Instruments, & Computers, 23, 319-323. \n\nHurford, D. P. (1995). The prevention and remediation of reading disabilities. Pittsburg State University Magazine, 6(2). \n\nHurford, D. P., Darrow, L. J., Edwards, T. L., Howerton, C. J., Mote, C. R., Schauf, J. D., & Coffey, P. (1993). An examination of the phonemic processing abilities in children during their first-grade year. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 26, 167-177. \n\nHurford, D. P., Gilliland, C., & Ginavan, S. (1992). Examination of the intrasyllable phonemic discrimination deficit in children with reading disabilities, Contemporary Educational Psychology, 17, 83-88. \n\nHurford, D. P., Johnston, M., Nepote, P., Hampton, S., Moore, S., Neal, J., Mueller, A., McGeorge, K., Huff, L., Awad, A., Tatro, C., Juliano, C., & Huffman, D. (1994). Early identification and remediation of phonological processing deficits in first-grade children at risk for reading disabilities. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 27, 647-659. \n\nHurford, D. P., Potter, T. S., & Hart, G. S. (2002). Examination of three techniques for identifying first-grade children at risk for difficulty in word identification with an emphasis on reducing the false negative error rate. Reading Psychology, 23(3), 159-180. \n\nHurford, D. P., Sagehorn, A. C., Darrow, L. J., & Palmer, V. L. (in review). Increasing text comprehension in second-grade children with reading disabilities through vocalization. \n\nHurford, D. P., & Sanders, R. E. (1990). Assessment and remediation of a phonemic discrimination deficit in reading disabled second- and fourth-graders. Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 50, 396-415. \n\nHurford, D. P., & Sanders, R. E. (1995). Phonological recoding ability in young children with reading disabilities. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 20, 121-126. \n\nHurford, D. P., Schauf, J. D., Blaich, T., Bunce, L. & Moore, K. (1994). Early identification of children at risk for reading disabilities. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 27, 371-382. \n\nHurford, D. P., & Shedelbower, A. (1993). The relationship between discrimination and memory ability in children with reading disabilities. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 18, 101-113. \n\nLynch, S., Hurford, D. P., & Cole, A. (2002). Parental enabling attitudes and locus of control of at-risk and honors students. Adolescence, 37(147), 527-550.\n\n"}
{"id": "56524641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56524641", "title": "Chase Manhattan Bank Money Museum", "text": "Chase Manhattan Bank Money Museum\n\nThe Chase Manhattan Bank Money Museum was a money museum at the Rockefeller Center, New York City from 1928 to 1977.\n\nThe Museum was located at the Rockefeller Center on Sixth Avenue in Manhattan, New York City. The collection was acquired from Farran Zerbe in 1928, and contained legal tender in a variety of forms, including wampum, ancient and modern coins, and paper money. The museum closed in 1977 and most of the collection (approx. 26,000 objects) was donated to the National Numismatic Collection at the Smithsonian Institution on 16 January 1978. Some of the collection went to the American Numismatic Society, including an 1804 U.S. dollar. An 1862 $1 Legal Tender note with Serial Number 1 (the first dollar bill issued by the United States) is now in the Chase Bank.\n\nGene Hessler was the last curator of the museum from 1967 to 1975.\n"}
{"id": "8573477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8573477", "title": "Chullo", "text": "Chullo\n\nChullo (, from ) is an Andean style of hat with earflaps, made from vicuña, alpaca, llama or sheep's wool. Alpaca has wool-like qualities that help to insulate its wearer from the harsh elements in the Andean Mountain region. Chullos often have ear-flaps that can be tied under the chin, to further warm the wearer's head.\n\nChullos have been used in the Andean Mountain region by indigenous peoples for thousands of years. Wearing different types and colors has a significance among certain Andean natives.\n\nIn the American TV show South Park, the character Craig Tucker wears a blue chullo.\n\n"}
{"id": "8163023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8163023", "title": "Chypre", "text": "Chypre\n\nChypre ( ) is the name of a family (or \"concept\") of perfumes that are characterised by an accord composed of citrus topnotes, a middle centered on cistus labdanum, and a mossy-animalic set of basenotes derived from oakmoss. Chypre perfumes fall into numerous classes according to their modifier notes, which include but are not limited to leather, florals, fruits, and amber.\n\nThe term \"chypre\" is French for the island of Cyprus. Its connection to perfumery originated with the first composition to feature the bergamot-labdanum-oakmoss accord, François Coty's 1917 perfume \"Chypre\" (now preserved at the Osmothèque), whose name was inspired by the fact that its raw materials came predominantly from Mediterranean countries. Although perfumes in a similar style had already been created in the 19th century, \"Chypre\" was so influential that it inspired many descendants, becoming the progenitor of a whole family of related fragrances sharing the same basic accord, which came to be known as chypres. The chypre concept is characterised by the contrast between the fresh citrus accord and the woody-oakmoss base; often patchouli is considered an indispensable element as well. The chypre accord is used in both male and female perfumery.\n\nA notable literary reference to chypre is contained in the novel \"The Maltese Falcon\" by Dashiell Hammett (Knopf, 1929), in which the character Joel Cairo is described as carrying a chypre-scented handkerchief as part of his homosexual persona. Raymond Chandler's \"The Lady in the Lake\" (Knopf, 1943) also mentions a chypre-scented, monogrammed handkerchief. Brave New World written by Aldous Huxley in 1932, the main female character, Lenina Crowne, “dabbled herself with chypre” after drying off from a bath.\n\nOne of the most popular chypre perfumes was the original Miss Dior, a floral chypre launched by Christian Dior in 1947. The formula was later changed, likely due to issues with the ingredient oakmoss. Since the mid-1980s, Karl Lagerfeld cologne, orange in color, called \"Lagerfeld\" is a modern chypre scent for both men and women.\n\nIn the 1950s and 60s in the USSR, \"ШИПР\" Shipr, became a popular men's fragrance. Today ШИПР is still available in Russian cosmetic stores and it is a popular scent among women.\n\nModern chypre perfumes have various connotations such as floral, fruity, green, woody-aromatic, leathery, and animalic notes, but can easily be recognized by their \"warm\" and \"mossy-woody\" base which contrasts the fresh citrus top, and a certain bitterness in the dry-down from the oak moss and patchouli. The accord consists of:\n\nThe composition is usually enhanced with a floral component through rose and jasmine oil.\n\nAnimalic notes such as civet can be added to this accord to provide richness, but are less popular in modern perfumery. The most common modifiers to this basic accord include patchouli, bergamot, vetiver, ambergris, sandalwood and labdanum resin.\n\nThe chypre fragrances generally fit into the Oriental and Woody family of fragrance wheel classification. They can also be classified into several styles:\n"}
{"id": "1635826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1635826", "title": "Comecrudan languages", "text": "Comecrudan languages\n\nComecrudan refers to a group of possibly related languages spoken in the southernmost part of Texas and in northern Mexico along the Rio Grande. \"Comecrudo\" is the best known.\n\nVery little is known about these languages or the people who spoke them. Knowledge of them primarily consists of word lists collected by European missionaries and explorers. \n\nAll Comecrudan languages are extinct.\n\nThe three languages were:\n\nIn John Wesley Powell's 1891 classification of North American languages, Comecrudo was grouped together with the Cotoname and Coahuilteco languages into a family called Coahuiltecan. \n\nJohn R. Swanton (1915) grouped together the Comecrudo, Cotoname, Coahuilteco, Karankawa, Tonkawa, Atakapa, and Maratino languages into a Coahuiltecan grouping. \n\nEdward Sapir (1920) accepted Swanton's proposal and grouped this hypothetical Coahuiltecan into his Hokan stock.\n\nAfter these proposals, documentation of the Garza and Mamulique languages was brought to light. It is now thought that the Comecrudan languages are not part of any of the proposed larger groupings mentioned above. Goddard (1979) believes that there is sufficient similarity between Comecrudan, Garza, and Mamulique for them to be considered genetically related.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "916552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916552", "title": "Corkscrew", "text": "Corkscrew\n\nA corkscrew is a tool for drawing corks from wine bottles, beer bottles and other household bottles before the invention of screw caps and Crown corks. In its traditional form, a corkscrew simply consists of a pointed metallic helix (often called the \"worm\") attached to a handle, which the user screws into the cork and pulls to extract it. Corkscrews are necessary because corks themselves, being small and smooth, are difficult to grip and remove, particularly when inserted fully into an inflexible glass bottle. More recent styles of corkscrew incorporate various systems of levers that further increase the amount of force that can be applied outwards upon the cork, making easier the extraction of difficult corks.\n\nIts design may have derived from the gun worm which was a device used by men to remove unspent charges from a musket's barrel in a similar fashion, from at least the early 1630s.\n\nThe corkscrew is possibly an English invention, due to the tradition of beer and cider, and \"Treatise on Cider\" by John Worlidge in 1676 describes \"binning of tightly corked cider bottles on their sides\", although the earliest reference to a corkscrew is, \"steel worm used for the drawing of Corks out of Bottles\" from 1681.\n\nIn 1795, the first corkscrew patent was granted to the Reverend Samuell Henshall, in England. The clergyman affixed a simple disk, now known as the Henshall Button, between the worm and the shank. The disk prevents the worm from going too deep into the cork, forces the cork to turn with the turning of the crosspiece, and thus breaks the adhesion between the cork and the neck of the bottle. The disk is designed and manufactured slightly concave on the underside, which compresses the top of the cork and helps keep it from breaking apart.\n\nA person who collects corkscrews is a \"helixophile.\"\n\nIn its traditional form, a corkscrew is simply a steel screw attached to a perpendicular handle, made of wood or some other material. The user grips the handle and screws the metal point into the cork, until the helix is firmly embedded, then a vertical pull on the corkscrew extracts the cork from the bottle. The handle of the corkscrew allows for a commanding grip to ease removal of the cork.\n\nFirst invented in 1930 by the Italian Domenick Rosati who emigrated to Chicago, Illinois to work as bartender before the prohibition. Such design was adapted by other brands as wine-market grown in popularity.\n\nThe winged owl version was first manufactured in 1932 by the Spanish industrial designer David Olañeta for his brand BOJ (and later adapted by other brands).\n\nThe wing corkscrew, sometimes called cork-extactor, a butterfly corkscrew, owl corkscrew or angel corkscrew, has two levers, one on either side of the worm. As the worm is twisted into the cork, the levers are raised. Pushing down the levers draws the cork from the bottle in one smooth motion. The most common design has a rack and pinion connecting the levers to the body. The head of the central shaft is frequently modified to form a bottle opener, increasing the utility of the device. Corkscrews of this design are particularly popular in household use.\n\nA sommelier knife, waiter's friend or wine key is a corkscrew in a folding body similar to a pocket knife. It was conceived by the German Karl Wienke in 1882 and patented in Germany, England, and America.\n\nAn arm extends to brace against the lip of the bottle for leverage when removing the cork. Some sommelier knives have two steps on the lever, and often also a bottle opener. A small hinged knife blade is housed in the handle end to be used in cutting the foil wrapping the neck of many wine bottles. A corkscrew of this type can be used more quickly (and with more \"show\" or panache) than a wing-type corkscrew. \n\nThe term \"wine key\" came into existence due to the German inventor's last name, Wienke, which is difficult for English speakers to pronounce. When ordering the product from catalogs, the meaning and origins of the new Wienke Corkscrew gradually became lost and it was simply referred to as a \"Winekey\" or wine key. Patent number 283,731, August 21, 1883, simply refers to it as \"C.F.A. WIENKE LEVER CORKSCREW.\" \n\nAlso known as butler's friend or \"Ah-So\", the twin-prong cork puller can extract a stopper without damaging it, to allow for sampling the wine before re-inserting the stopper. The stopper is removed by pushing the prongs between the cork and the neck of the bottle, and twisting the stopper out of the bottle. Replacing the stopper involves taking it between the two prongs, then twisting it into the bottle and pulling out the prongs. It can also extract a stopper in bad condition.\n\nThe lever or \"rabbit\" corkscrew is operated using a pair of handles which are used to grip the neck of the bottle, and a lever which is simply pressed down to twist the screw into the cork, then lifted to extract the cork. Expelling the cork from the device is done with a similar press/lift action. This style of corkscrew is much bulkier, and typically much more expensive, than other styles, but is much faster. \n\nThese were invented in the late 1800s for use in homes, hotel bars and restaurants in an era where all bottles were stopped with corks. They are screwed or clamped to counters or walls. When beer began to be sold in bottles, bars required a speedy way to open them. Most early mounted corkscrew were designed to open beer bottles with short corks. Modern ones are made for longer wine corks.\n\nThere are many other styles of corkscrew which are not widely used in consumer settings, such as high-priced elaborate devices for specialists, and for industrial uses.\n\n"}
{"id": "29301757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29301757", "title": "DAKS", "text": "DAKS\n\nDAKS is a British luxury fashion house, founded in 1894 by Simeon Simpson in London.\n\nDAKS holds royal warrants granted from three members of the Royal Family, one of 15 firms (out of 820) to do so. Officially granted to DAKS' Simpson Piccadilly store in 1956 was the royal warrant of HRH The Duke of Edinburgh, followed by that of HM The Queen in 1962 and HRH The Prince of Wales in 1982.\n\nWorldwide, DAKS is exported to 30 countries and sold in over 2,000 specialty shops, major stores and concessions. The name is a combination of the initials of Alexander Simpson and an initial and final letter of his business associate Dudley Beck.\n\nIn 1894 Simeon Simpson, aged 16, rented a room on Middlesex Street, East London, with the intention of setting up a business in bespoke tailoring, focused on high standard craftsmanship. Several innovations of technology at the time were being introduced with machinery capable of making buttonholes and electric powered saws to cut many layers of fabric at once – Simpson saw the potential for such equipment for producing garments in higher quantities while still upholding quality tailoring techniques, aiming to improve ready-to-wear standards as no male or female professionals considered ready-to-wear for suitable attire at the time. Simpson's methods proved successful in speeding up the process and he set up several factories within London, which soon required expansion in its early years through popularity of the label.\n\nAlexander Simpson, his second son, joined the business aged 15 in 1917, and by 1929 had planned and opened a larger factory in Stoke Newington where production could be centralised, this again had to be enlarged a few years later.\n\nWith the continued growth of the company Alexander Simpson began to take more control of the business, and in 1935 DAKS gained further fame for the S Simpson brand as an innovation in the tailoring world of the first self-supporting trouser. He went about to invent a way to support his trousers that wouldn't need braces as these interrupted his swing whilst playing golf and caused his shirt to become untucked. The DAKS trouser was invented – it had a channel within the waistband at the back wherein an elasticated strip was attached at the sides with tabs attached to one of two buttons for adjustment. On the inside of the waistband were sewn-on rubber pads that gripped the shirt and stopped it from becoming loose. This happened in a world where to buy a pair of trousers of high quality one would have to have a bespoke pair made by a tailor, and thus this new design allowed the ease of ready-to-wear trousers. Simpson was so sure of his new design that he had 100,000 pairs made before being introduced to the public at a high price of 30 shillings in a time when a whole bespoke suit would cost 50 shillings. The trousers were available in many colours and fabrics that weren't generally associated with menswear. They became so popular that the trousers were incorporated into suits and soon after a DAKS womenswear line was released, using the patented waistband for skirting.\n\nThe inception of the DAKS name was aiming to be something short, snappy and eye catching and is an arrangement of initials from the two men involved in its development – 'AS' for Alexander Simpson and 'DK' for his business associate Dudley Beck (his surname's last letter was used so as to make a better-sounding name than using a B) hence why the name is capitalised. The advertising agent involved for the promotion of these new trousers, Sir William Crawford of WS Crawford Ltd thought up the idea to market them as 'Dad's Slacks' as it had connotations of reliability and comfort whilst also sounding similar to the name DAKS.\n\nAt the turn of the 21st century when the company was acquired by Japanese group Sankyo Seiko Co. Limited in 1991, the S Simpson name was dropped and DAKS became the new brand name.\n\nThe ease-of-wear of the trousers and how they allowed movement, as intended from Simpson's invention, led to DAKS being popular in sporting wear – kitting tennis, golf, motor racing, and football players, and even for the British Olympic team in 1960. The quality of S Simpson tailoring was such that the company was commissioned by the British Government at the time of the Second World War to produce military uniforms for officers in the Army, Navy, Royal Airforce and Women's Services even despite the semi-destruction of the Stoke Newington factory due to bomb damage and loss of electricity\n– with about seven million garments made for military services being produced.\n\nAfter the war when DAKS clothes were announced to start selling to the public again queues of people would form down Piccadilly, to which Simpson tailors would measure them in line and present suitable pairs of trousers to them when they got into the Simpsons of Piccadilly store.\n\nSimeon Simpson's son Alexander Simpson, who was then owner of the company, decided he wanted to find a 'window' for Simpson clothes in the heart of London. He founded Simpsons of Piccadilly when the Geological Museum had closed and the site to be auctioned. The new building was designed by architect Joseph Emberton as a new and revolutionary retail establishment, the shop front windows exhibited the first curved glass display in Great Britain and the largest in the world at the time, these were designed so that no reflection would be cast to obscure the displays inside. The outstanding feature of the shop's interior was the travertine staircase that ran up through the centre of the store lit by a continuous window up the height of the building. The current lighting structure suspended through the staircase centre is the original from the 1930s as the building has since become a listed building.\n\nThe store opened in April 1936 by Sir Malcolm Campbell, the world-famous motor-racing driver. and was famed for its visual merchandising and window displays by László Moholy-Nagy, a former director from the Bauhaus school. Opening the store was a highlight of Alexander Simpson's vision, he died the following year of leukaemia aged just 34.\n\nSimpsons continued to trade in the Simpsons Piccadilly building for several decades more, helping officers and civilians during World War II, and in later years branched out to sell other clothing by designer labels such as Armani and Christian Dior Since 1999 Simpsons stopped trading at the Piccadilly store and moved the renamed DAKS to a new flagship store and London offices to Old Bond Street, whilst moving to another new store on Jermyn Street which was refurbished in 2012 to focus on selling classic menswear. The original store was sold to bookseller Waterstone's and now serves as their flagship store.\n\nTo accompany the opening of the new flagship store on Old Bond Street in 2000 DAKS collaborated with Philip Treacy to commission a hat featuring the Double D logo, they also collaborated with Jimmy Choo to create a shoe collection featuring the house check. In 2005, Sankyo-Seiko (for ladies) and Kashiyama (for men) was the DAKS ready-to-wear license holder in Japan with retail value of €190 million. Bruce Montgomery designed the Menswear since 1996 and showed the Menswear Luxury range on the Milan catwalk for five seasons until 2009. In 2007, British designer Giles Deacon was appointed Creative Director for the brand, showing for three womenswear seasons at London Fashion Week. Since then, Filippo Scuffi joined DAKS as Creative Director in 2008 and is currently in charge of showing catwalk presentations at Milan Men's Fashion Week and London Fashion Week. For the Spring Summer 2013 catwalk collection, DAKS collaborated with renowned fashion illustrator David Downton, a style in keeping with its advertising history. The label aims to reinvigorate the values of its heritage while providing a modern aesthetic.\n\nSimpsons' and DAKS' advertising was quite profound, featured in colour and in magazines such as Punch and throughout the store, characteristic and witty they included illustrations by Max Hoff who was persuaded by Alexander Simpson and Sir William Crawford to move to Britain from Austria during the Second World War. He stayed with the company from 1936 to coincide with the Simpsons of Piccadilly launch, until the late 1960s. Thereafter Eric Stemp came to DAKS from \"Vogue\", replacing Hoff as official advertising illustrator for Simpsons of Piccadilly. All advertising, some carpeting, and the Simpsons and DAKS logos were designed by Ashley Havinden, who worked with William Crawford at his company WS Crawford Ltd, for which Havinden later became the art director. DAKS have also collaborated with \"Vogue\" fashion photographers Norman Parkinson in the 1960s and Horst P. Horst in the 1970s for advertising campaigns.\n\nHRH The Duke of Edinburgh visited the company's Larkhall factory in Scotland in recognition of its role in exporting goods worldwide.\n\n(Larkhall was built in 1948 to Simpson's specifications and was opened by Harold Wilson who later became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. The factory since closed in the early 2000s). DAKS was granted the Royal Warrant of Appointment by HRH The Duke of Edinburgh in 1956. Her Majesty The Queen and HRH The Prince of Wales granted the company with Royal Warrants in 1962 and 1982 respectively.\n\nThe company developed a House Check in 1976 by Johnny Mengers, the Group managing director of the time and last family chairman. Representing the most luxurious fabrics and richest colours of camel and vicuna, the check has since become iconic for the brand.\n\n"}
{"id": "10004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10004", "title": "Educational essentialism", "text": "Educational essentialism\n\nEducational essentialism is an educational philosophy whose adherents believe that children should learn the traditional basic subjects thoroughly. In this philosophical school of thought, the aim is to instill students with the \"essentials\" of academic knowledge, enacting a back-to-basics approach. Essentialism ensures that the accumulated wisdom of our civilization as taught in the traditional academic disciplines is passed on from teacher to student. Such disciplines might include Reading, Writing, Literature, Foreign Languages, History, Mathematics, Science, Art, and Music. Moreover, this traditional approach is meant to train the mind, promote reasoning, and ensure a common culture.\n\nEssentialism is a relatively conservative stance to education that strives to teach students the knowledge of a society and civilization through a core curriculum. This core curriculum involves such areas that include the study of the surrounding environment, basic natural laws, and the disciplines that promote a happier, more educated living. Other non-traditional areas are also integrated as well in moderation to balance the education. Essentialists' goals are to instill students with the \"essentials\" of academic knowledge, patriotism, and character development through traditional (or back-to-basic) approaches. This is to promote reasoning, train the mind, and ensure a common culture for all citizens.\n\nEssentialism is the most typically enacted philosophy in American classrooms today. Traces of this can be found in the organized learning centered on teachers and textbooks, in addition to the regular assignments and evaluations.\n\nThe role of the teacher as the leader of the classroom is a very important tenet of Educational essentialism. The teacher is the center of the classroom, so they should be rigid and disciplinary. Establishing order in the classroom is crucial for student learning; effective teaching cannot take place in a loud and disorganized environment. It is the teacher's responsibility to keep order in the classroom. The teacher must interpret essentials of the learning process, take the leadership position and set the tone of the classroom. These needs require an educator who is academically well-qualified with an appreciation for learning and development. The teacher must control the students with distributions of rewards and penalties.\n\nThe Essentialist movement first began in the United States in the year 1938. In Atlantic City, New Jersey, a group met for the first time called \"The Essentialist's Committee for the Advancement of Education.\" Their emphasis was to reform the educational system to a rationality-based system.\n\nThe term essentialist first appeared in the book \"An Introduction to the Philosophy of Education\" which was written by Michael John Demiashkevich. In his book, Demiashkevich labels some specific educators (including William C. Bagley) as “essentialists.\" Demiashkevich compared the essentialists to the different viewpoints of the Progressive Education Association. He described how the Progressives preached a “hedonistic doctrine of change” whereas the essentialists stressed the moral responsibility of man for his actions and looked toward permanent principles of behavior (Demiashkevich likened the arguments to those between the Socratics and the Sophists in Greek philosophy). In 1938 Bagley and other educators met together where Bagley gave a speech detailing the main points of the essentialism movement and attacking the public education in the United States. One point that Bagley noted was that students in the U.S. were not getting an education on the same levels as students in Europe who were the same age.\n\nA recent branch has emerged within the essentialist school of thought called \"neoessentialism.\" Emerging in the eighties as a response to the essentialist ideals of the thirties as well as to the criticism of the fifties and the advocates for education in the seventies, neoessentialism was created to try to appease the problems facing the United States at the time. The most notable change within this school of thought is that it called for the creation of a new discipline, computer science.\n\nWilliam Bagley (1874–1946) was an important historical essentialist. William C. Bagley completed his undergraduate degree at Michigan Agricultural College in 1895. It wasn’t until after finishing his undergraduate studies that he truly wanted to be a teacher. Bagley did his Graduate studies at the University of Chicago and at Cornell University. He acquired his Ph.D. in 1900, after which he took his first school job as a Principal in a St. Louis, Missouri Elementary School. Bagley’s devotion increased during his work at Montana State Normal School in Dillon, Montana. It was here where he decided to dedicate his time to the education of teachers and where he published \"The Educative Process\", launching his name across the nation. Throughout his career Bagley argued against the conservative position that teachers were not in need of special training for their work. He believed that liberal arts material was important in teacher education. Bagley also believed the dominant theories of education of the time were weak and lacking.\n\nIn April 1938, he published the \"Essentialist's Platform\", in which he outlined three major points of essentialism. He described the right of students to a well-educated and culturally knowledgeable teacher. Secondly, he discussed the importance of teaching the ideals of community to each group of students. Lastly, Bagley wrote of the importance of accuracy, thoroughness and effort on the part of the student in the classroom.\n\nAnother important essentialist is E. D. Hirsch (1928-). Hirsch was Founder and Chairman of the Core Knowledge Foundation and authored several books concerning fact-based approaches to education. Now retired, he spent many years teaching at the University of Virginia while also being an advocate for the \"back to basics\" movement. In his most popular book, \"Cultural Literacy — What Every American Needs To Know\", he offers lists, quotations, and information regarding what he believes is essential knowledge.\n\nSee also Arthur Bestor.\n\nThe Core Knowledge Schools were founded on the philosophy of essentialist E.D. Hirsch. Although it is difficult to maintain a pure and strict essentialist-only curriculum, these schools have the central aim of establishing a common knowledge base for all citizens. To do so, they follow a nationwide, content-specific, and teacher-centered curriculum. The Core Knowledge curriculum also allows for local variance above and beyond the core curriculum. Central curricular aims are academic excellence and the learning of knowledge, and teachers who are masters of their knowledge areas serve this aim.\n\nBecause Essentialism is largely teacher-centered, the role of the student is often called into question. Presumably, in an essentialist classroom, the teacher is the one designing the curriculum for the students based upon the core disciplines. Moreover, he or she is enacting the curriculum and setting the standards which the students must meet. The teacher's evaluative role may undermine students' interest in study. As a result, the students begin to take on more of a passive role in their education as they are forced to meet and learn such standards and information.\n\nFurthermore, there is also speculation that an essentialist education helps in promoting the cultural lag. This philosophy of education is very traditional in the mindset of passing on the knowledge of the culture via the academic disciplines. Thus, students are forced to think in the mindset of the larger culture, and individual creativity and subversive investigation are often not emphasized, or even outright discouraged.\n\n"}
{"id": "48037281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48037281", "title": "Eroom's law", "text": "Eroom's law\n\nEroom's law is the observation that drug discovery is becoming slower and more expensive over time, despite improvements in technology (such as high throughput screening, biotechnology, combinatorial chemistry, and computational drug design), a trend first observed in the 1980s. The cost of developing a new drug roughly doubles every nine years (inflation-adjusted). In order to highlight the contrast with the exponential advancements of other forms of technology (such as transistors) over time, the law was deliberately spelled as Moore's law spelled backwards.\n\nThe law is attributed to four main causes.\n\n\nWhile some suspect a lack of \"low hanging fruit\" as a significant contribution to Eroom's law, this may be less important than the four main causes, as there are still many decades worth of new potential drug targets relative to the number of targets which already have been exploited, even if the industry exploits 4-5 new targets per year. There is also space to explore selectively non-selective drugs (or \"dirty drugs\") that interact with several molecular targets, and which may be particularly effective as central nervous system (CNS) therapeutics, even though few of them have been introduced in the last few decades.\n"}
{"id": "1913897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913897", "title": "Exberliner", "text": "Exberliner\n\nExberliner is an English-language magazine published in Berlin. It is published monthly (except for the July/August double issue) and available for €3.90 at newsstands around the city or by subscription. The magazine offers cultural listings, reviews, journalistic articles, opinion columns and a large classified section which is also continually updated online. It also regularly organizes parties and cultural events (such as the monthly English-language Wednesdays at Burger in Kaffee Burger) in English. The magazine was founded as a free newspaper in 2002 named \"The Berliner\" but was forced to change the name, which was already trademarked. The new name is intended as a play on expatriate (English-speaking expatriates being a major target audience). The publishing house Iomauna Media GmbH also operates Exberliner Flat Rentals, which helps foreigners rent apartments in Berlin, as well as Exberliner Jobs, a job board for internationals in Berlin.\n\nIn February 2013, Exberliner published an article called RANT! \"Sorry, No German!\" which caused a lot of debate around the behaviour of expatriates in Berlin, and also led to discussions about gentrification in Berlin. The article lamented the fact that many expats in Berlin do not learn German. \n\n"}
{"id": "27582693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27582693", "title": "Forensic astronomy", "text": "Forensic astronomy\n\nForensic astronomy is the use of astronomy, the scientific study of celestial objects, to determine the appearance of the sky at specific times in the past. This has been used, if relatively rarely, in forensic science (that is, for solving problems of relevance to the legal system) and for resolving historical problems more generally, notably issues in art history.\n\nAs a forensic science in the strict sense of the term, astronomical knowledge can help resolve certain legal questions. In one reported instance, an astronomer testified in court as an expert witness as to whether a newly built house would cast a shadow on another house. More generally, questions about the sun's or moon's placement in the sky at certain times of day or night may be legally relevant, such as for determining the date on which a photograph was made. It has for instance been reported that Abraham Lincoln once successfully defended a legal case by describing the location of the Moon on the night of the offense.\n\nBy extension, the adjective \"forensic\" has come to be used for any detailed analysis of past events, whether related to legal questions or not, and so the determination of past celestial constellations more generally is now increasingly referred to as \"forensic astronomy\".\n\nFor research in art history, in particular, methods of astronomy are sometimes useful for determining the place and time of creation of a particular work of art, or of the event that inspired it. Such methods have for instance been used to date Vincent van Gogh's painting \"Evening Landscape with Rising Moon\" (to 9:08 pm, 13 July 1889), and to identify the meteors described in Walt Whitman's poem \"Year of Meteors (1859-60)\" – in conjunction with Frederic Edwin Church's painting of the same event (at right) – as the meteor procession of 1860.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10761774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10761774", "title": "Fragmentation (music)", "text": "Fragmentation (music)\n\nIn music composition, fragmentation is the use of fragments or the \"division of a musical idea (gesture, motive, theme, etc.) into segments\". It is used in tonal and atonal music, and is a common method of localized development and closure.\n\nFragmentation is related to Arnold Schoenberg's concept of \"liquidation\", a common compositional technique that describes the reduction of a large-scale musical idea to its essential form (such as a contour line, a specific harmonic motion, or the like). Liquidation shapes much thematically-driven music, such as that by Béla Bartók, Stravinsky, and Schoenberg himself. It is important to understand that, although they are related, fragmentation and liquidation are separate processes and concepts.\n\n"}
{"id": "8861328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8861328", "title": "Geek", "text": "Geek\n\nThe word geek is a slang term originally used to describe eccentric or non-mainstream people; in current use, the word typically connotes an expert or enthusiast or a person obsessed with a hobby or intellectual pursuit, with a general pejorative meaning of a \"peculiar person, especially one who is perceived to be overly intellectual, unfashionable, boring, or socially awkward\".\n\nSome use the term self-referentially without malice or as a source of pride, often referring simply to \"someone who is interested in a subject (usually intellectual or complex) for its own sake\". Nonetheless, it remains a pejorative, widely used in an abusive manner especially against children and teens who may be more focused on studies, while less popular, fashionable, or socially inclined.\n\nThe word comes from English dialect \"geek\" or \"geck\" (meaning a \"fool\" or \"freak\"; from Middle Low German \"Geck\"). \"Geck\" is a standard term in modern German and means \"fool\" or \"fop\". The root also survives in the Dutch and Afrikaans adjective \"gek\" (\"crazy\"), as well as some German dialects, and in the Alsatian word \"Gickeleshut\" (\"jester's hat\"; used during carnival). In 18th century Austria, \"Gecken\" were freaks on display in some circuses. In 19th century North America, the term \"geek\" referred to a performer in a geek show in a circus, traveling carnival or travelling funfair sideshows (see also freak show). The 1976 edition of the \"American Heritage Dictionary\" included only the definition regarding geek shows. This variation of the term was used to comic effect in an episode of popular 1970s TV show Sanford & Son.\nProfessional wrestling manager \"Classy\" Freddie Blassie recorded a song in the 1970s called \"Pencil-Necked Geek\".\n\nThe 1975 edition of the American Heritage Dictionary, published a decade before the Digital revolution, gave only one definition: \"Geek [noun, slang]. A carnival performer whose act usually consists of biting the head off a live chicken or snake.\" The tech revolution found new uses for this word, but it still often conveys a derogatory sting. Today, Dictionary.com gives five definitions, the fourth of which is \"a carnival performer who performs sensationally morbid or disgusting acts, as biting off the head of a live chicken.\" \n\nThe definition of geek has been used as slang with different connotations, including as an affectionate label. However, this doesn't mean that the term is meaningless or has lost its meaning over time. It remains mostly a derogatory term used to label people unfairly and offensively. Not a friendly and affectionate compliment about somebody's personality, but a hurtful insulting form of invalidation or emotional abuse.\n\nThe term nerd has a similar, practically synonymous meaning as geek, but many choose to identify different connotations among these two terms, although the differences are disputed. In a 2007 interview on \"The Colbert Report\", Richard Clarke said the difference between nerds and geeks is \"geeks get it done\" or \"ggid\" Julie Smith defined a geek as \"a bright young man turned inward, poorly socialized, who felt so little kinship with his own planet that he routinely traveled to the ones invented by his favorite authors, who thought of that secret, dreamy place his computer took him to as cyberspace—somewhere exciting, a place more real than his own life, a land he could conquer, not a drab teenager's room in his parents' house\".\n\nTechnologically oriented geeks, in particular, now exert a powerful influence over the global economy and society. Whereas previous generations of geeks tended to operate in research departments, laboratories and support functions, now they increasingly occupy senior corporate positions, and wield considerable commercial and political influence. When U.S. President Barack Obama met with Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg and the CEOs of the world’s largest technology firms at a private dinner in Woodside, California on February 17, 2011, \"New York\" magazine ran a story titled \"The world’s most powerful man meets President Obama\". At the time, Zuckerberg’s company had grown to over one billion users.\n\nAccording to Mark Roeder the rise of the geek represents a new phase of human evolution. In his book, \"\" he suggests that \"the high-tech environment of the Anthropocene favours people with geek-like traits, many of whom are on the autism spectrum, ADHD, or dyslexia. Previously, such people may have been at a disadvantage, but now their unique cognitive traits enable some of them to resonate with the new technological zeitgeist and become very successful.\"\n\n\"The Economist\" magazine observed, on June 2, 2012, \"Those square pegs (geeks) may not have an easy time in school. They may be mocked by jocks and ignored at parties. But these days no serious organisation can prosper without them.\"\n\n\"Geek chic\" refers to a minor fashion trend that arose in the mid 2000s in which young people adopted \"geeky\" fashions, such as oversized black horn-rimmed glasses, suspenders/braces, and highwater trousers. The glasses—sometimes worn with non-prescription lenses or without lenses—quickly became the defining aspect of the trend, with the media identifying various celebrities as \"trying geek\" or \"going geek\" for wearing such glasses, such as David Beckham and Justin Timberlake. Meanwhile, in the sports world, many NBA players wore \"geek glasses\" during post-game interviews, drawing comparisons to Steve Urkel.\n\nThe term \"geek chic\" was appropriated by some self-identified \"geeks\" to refer to a new, socially acceptable role in a technologically advanced society.\n\n"}
{"id": "2092281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092281", "title": "Germania (personification)", "text": "Germania (personification)\n\nGermania is the personification of the German nation or the Germans as a whole, most commonly associated with the Romantic Era and the Revolutions of 1848, though the figure was later used by Imperial Germany.\n\n\"Germania\" is the Latin name of the country called \"Deutschland\" in the spoken language of its own inhabitants, though used as the country's name in various other languages, such as \"Germany\" in English. In the country itself, the use of the Latin \"Germania\" was mainly literary and poetical, linked with patriotic and nationalist feelings, like \"Hibernia\" for Ireland, \"Caledonia\" for Scotland, \"Lusitania\" for Portugal etc. \n\nGermania as personification is usually depicted as a robust woman with long, flowing, reddish-blonde hair and wearing armour. She often wields the \"Reichsschwert\" (imperial sword), and possesses a medieval-style shield that sometimes bears the image of a black eagle on a gold field. Additionally, she is sometimes shown as carrying or wearing the Imperial Crown of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nIn post-1918 images, the banner she holds is the black-red-gold flag of modern Germany, but in depictions from 1871 to 1918 it is the black-white-red flag of the German Empire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41883876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41883876", "title": "Hari-Kuyō", "text": "Hari-Kuyō\n\nHari-Kuyō () is the Japanese Buddhist and Shinto Festival of Broken Needles, celebrated on February 8 in the Kanto region, but on December 8 in the Kyoto and Kansai regions. It is celebrated by women in Japan as a memorial to all the sewing needles broken in their service during the past year, and as an opportunity to pray for improved skills. It is also called the Needle Mass and Pin Festival. \"Hari\" means \"needle\" and the suffix \"-kuyo\" means \"memorial\", derived from a Sanskrit word \"pūjā\" or \"pūjanā\", meaning \"to bring offerings\".\n\nHari-Kuyō began four hundred years ago as a way for housekeepers and professional needle-workers to acknowledge their work over the past years and respect their tools. In the animist traditions, items as well as humans, animals, plants, and objects are considered to have souls. This festival acknowledged the good given to people by their tools. Practitioners went to Shinto shrines and Buddhist temples to thank their broken needles for their help and service. This is in keeping with the philosophy of \"not wasting\" or \"paying honor to the small things\" exemplified in the concept of mottainai.\nFestival-goers gather at shrines and temples, bringing their broken needles and pins. In a funereal atmosphere, the implements are laid to rest in tofu or konnyaku (soft jelly cakes) in a spirit of tenderness and gratitude.\n\n\"A small three-step altar is set up and hung with a sacred rope and strips of cut white paper which indicate a sanctified area. On the top step are offerings of fruit and sweet cakes. On the middle step is a cake of tofu and on the bottom step are various sewing accessories.\n\nOn this day, the seamstresses take a holiday and bring their old needles to the temple to stick them in a piece of tofu or konnyaku. Threads of the five Buddhist colors were used with the needles.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3596898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3596898", "title": "Hindu views on monotheism", "text": "Hindu views on monotheism\n\nHinduism is a religion which incorporates diverse views on the concept of God. Different traditions of Hinduism have different theistic views, and these views have been described by scholars as polytheism, monotheism, henotheism, panentheism, pantheism, monism, agnostic, humanism, atheism or non-theism.\n\nMonotheism is the belief in a single creator God who is almighty, omnipotent, omniscient and omnibenevolent. Hinduism does not posit or require such a belief, and is considered a non-monotheistic religion by scholars of religion. Many traditions within Hinduism share the Vedic idea of a metaphysical ultimate reality and truth called Brahman instead. According to Jan Gonda, Brahman denoted the \"power immanent in the sound, words, verses and formulas of Vedas\" in the earliest Vedic texts. The early Vedic religious understanding of Brahman underwent a series of abstractions in the Hindu scriptures that followed the Vedic scriptures. These scriptures would reveal a vast body of insights into the nature of Brahman as originally revealed in the Vedas. These Hindu traditions that emerged from or identified with the Vedic scriptures and that maintained the notion of a metaphysical ultimate reality would identify that ultimate reality as Brahman. Hindu adherents to these traditions within Hinduism revere Hindu deities and, indeed, all of existence, as aspects of the Brahman. The deities in Hinduism are not considered to be almighty, omnipotent, omniscient and omnibenevolent, and spirituality is considered to be seeking the ultimate truth that is possible by a number of paths. Like other Indian religions, in Hinduism, deities are born, they live and they die in every kalpa (eon, cycle of existence).\n\nIn Hindu philosophy, there are many different schools. Its non-theist traditions such as Samkhya, early Nyaya, Mimamsa and many within Vedanta such as Advaita do not posit the existence of an almighty, omnipotent, omniscient, omnibenevolent God (monotheistic God), while its theistic traditions posit a personal God left to the choice of the Hindu. The major schools of Hindu philosophy explain morality and the nature of existence through the karma and samsara doctrines, as in other Indian religions.\n\nContemporary Hinduism can be categorized into four major traditions: Vaishnavism, Shaivism, Shaktism, and Smartism. Vaishnavism, Shaivism, and Shaktism worship Vishnu, Shiva, and Devi — the Divine Mother — as the Supreme respectively, or consider all Hindu deities as aspects of the formless Supreme Reality or Brahman. Other minor sects such as Ganapatya and Saura focus on Ganesha and Surya as the Supreme. A sub-tradition within the Vaishnavism school of Hinduism that is an exception is dualistic Dvaita, founded by Madhvacharya in the 13th-century (where Vishnu as Krishna is a monotheistic God). This tradition posits a concept of monotheistic God so similar to Christianity that Christian missionaries in colonial India suggested that Madhvacharya was likely influenced by early Christians who migrated to India, a theory that has been discredited by scholars.\n\nAccording to \"Rigveda 1.164.46\",<br>Transl: Klaus Klostermaier\n\nKrishnaism is a sub-tradition of Vaishnavism wherein Krishna is considered \"Svayam Bhagavan\", meaning 'Lord Himself' and it is used exclusively to designate Krishna as the Supreme Lord. Krishna is considered as an avatar (manifestation) of Vishnu himself or to be the same as Narayana. Krishna is recognized to be \"Svayam Bhagavan\" in the belief of Gaudiya Vaishnavism and Dvaita sub-school of Hindu philosophy, the Vallabha Sampradaya, in the Nimbarka Sampradaya, where Krishna is accepted to be the source of all other avatars, and the source of Vishnu himself.\n\nThe theological interpretation of \"\" differs with each tradition and the translated from the Sanskrit language, the term literary means \"Bhagavan Himself\" or \"directly Bhagavan.\" Gaudiya Vaishnava tradition often translates it within its perspective as \"primeval Lord\" or \"original Personality of Godhead\", but also considers the terms such as \"Supreme Personality of Godhead\" and \"Supreme God\" as an equivalent to the term \"Svayam Bhagavan\", and may also choose to apply these terms to Vishnu, Narayana and many of their associated avatars.\n\nGaudiya Vaishnavas and followers of the Vallabha Sampradaya Nimbarka Sampradaya, use the Gopala Tapani Upanishad, and the Bhagavata Purana, to support their view that Krishna is indeed the \"Svayam Bhagavan\". This belief was summarized by the 16th century author Jiva Goswami in some of his works, such as \"Krishna-sandarbha\".\n\nIn other sub-traditions of Vaishnavism, Krishna is one of many aspects and avatars of Vishnu (Rama is another, for example), recognized and understood from an eclectic assortment of perspectives and viewpoints.\n\nVaishnavism is one of the earliest single God focussed traditions that derives its heritage from the Vedas.\n\nA different Vaishnavism viewpoint, such as those in Sri Vaishnavism, opposing this theological concept is the concept of Krishna as one of the many \"avatar\" of Narayana or Vishnu. The Sri Vaishnavism sub-tradition reveres goddess Lakshmi with god Vishnu as equivalent, and traces it roots its roots to the ancient Vedas and Pancaratra texts in Sanskrit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15398744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15398744", "title": "Homo homini lupus", "text": "Homo homini lupus\n\nHomo homini lupus, or in its unabridged form Homo homini lupus est, is a Latin proverb meaning \"A man is a wolf to another man,\" or more tersely \"Man is wolf to man.\" It has meaning in reference to situations where people are known to have behaved in a way comparably in nature to a wolf. The wolf as a creature is thought, in this example, to have qualities of being predatory, cruel, inhuman i.e. more like an animal than civilized.\n\nA variation of the proverb appeared as line 495 in the play \"Asinaria\" by Plautus: \"Lupus est homo homini, non homo, quom qualis sit non novit\", which as \"Man is no man, but a wolf, to a stranger,\" or more precisely \"A man is a wolf, not a man, to another man which he hasn't met yet.\"\n\nAs a counterpoint, Seneca the Younger wrote, in his \"Epistulae morales ad Lucilium\" (specifically, Epistula XCV, paragraph 33), \"homo, sacra res homini\", which as \"man, an object of reverence in the eyes of man\".\n\nErasmus included the proverb in his \"Adagia\", writing of the variation by Plautus, \"Here we are warned not to trust ourselves to an unknown person, but to beware of him as of a wolf.\"\n\nThe philosopher, theologian, and jurist Francisco de Vitoria (in Latin, Franciscus de Victoria) that the poet Ovid disagreed with the proverb: \"'Man,' says Ovid, 'is\nnot a wolf to his fellow man, but a man.'\"\n\nThomas Hobbes drew upon the proverb in his \"De Cive\", \"To speak impartially, both sayings are very true; That Man to Man is a kind of God; and that Man to Man is an arrant Wolfe. The first is true, if we compare Citizens amongst themselves; and the second, if we compare Cities.\" Hobbes was describing the tendency of people to act fairly and generously toward other people in the same society and the tendency of societies to act deceptively and violently toward other societies, or , \"In the one, there's some analogie of similitude with the Deity, to wit, Justice and Charity, the twin-sisters of peace: But in the other, Good men must defend themselves by taking to them for a Sanctuary the two daughters of War, Deceipt and Violence.\"\n\nSigmund Freud agreed with the proverb, writing in his \"Civilization and Its Discontents\", \"Men are not gentle creatures, who want to be loved, who at the most can defend themselves if they are attacked; they are, on the contrary, creatures among whose instinctual endowments is to be reckoned a powerful share of aggressiveness. As a result, their neighbor is for them not only a potential helper or sexual object, but also someone who tempts them to satisfy their aggressiveness on him, to exploit his capacity for work without compensation, to use him sexually without his consent, to seize his possessions, to humiliate him, to cause him pain, to torture and to kill him. \"Homo homini lupus.\" Who in the face of all his experience of life and of history, will have the courage to dispute this assertion?\"\n\nThe primatologist and ethologist Frans de Waal disagreed with the proverb, writing that it \"contains two major flaws. First, it fails to do justice to canids, which are among the most gregarious and cooperative animals on the planet (Schleidt and Shalter 2003). But even worse, the saying denies the inherently social nature of our own species.\"\n\nBartolomeo Vanzetti, after being convicted of murder, along with Nicolo Sacco, in 1927, said that their pending execution would become an emblem \"of a cursed past in which man was wolf to the man\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19233718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19233718", "title": "International Panorama Council", "text": "International Panorama Council\n\nThe International Panorama Council (IPC) is a nongovernmental, not-for-profit organization, subject to Swiss law. It is a global network involving museum directors, managers, artists, restorers and historians who deal with the historical or the contemporary art and media forms of the panorama. The organization comprises members from all over the world who are either representatives of museums and research institutes or private researchers and enthusiasts.\nThe organization was founded in 1992 as the \"European Panorama Conference\" in Szeged/Hungary and renamed in 1998 at Altoetting/Germany the \"International Panorama Conference\". Since 2003 the organization is called International Panorama Council. IPC has been a Membership Association since 2010. It is governed by a member-elected Executive Board whose Secretary-General acts as the operational center for the Board’s members.\n\nThe purpose of the International Panorama Council is to stimulate worldwide research and communication about existing and future panoramas and cycloramas, advocate for and help preserve the few surviving heritage panoramas, and promote professional affiliation. IPC serves as a bridge connecting the heritage era of the panorama art form to its contemporary and future manifestations, and strives to facilitate the formal international recognition and protection of panoramas by organizations like UNESCO and the Council of Europe.\nThe International Panorama Council actively supports the preservation of historical panoramas and cycloramas. In 2007 and 2008 it started a lobbying campaign to save the endangered panorama painting and building in Innsbruck, Austria.\nAn initiative was taken to support the protection of the endangered Panorama Mesdag.\nA further goal of the IPC is to have the most important historical panoramas from 19c. enrolled as UNESCO World Heritage sites. A first step has been taken in July 2008 when the Waterloo Panorama was added to Belgium's tentative proposal for the UNESCO list. In February 2009 Panorama Mesdag applied for inclusion in the tentative list of the Netherlands.\n\nIPC is active in the fields of restoration, research, financing, exhibiting and marketing of panoramas and related art forms from the heritage era to its contemporary and future manifestations. IPC maintains a database of existing panoramas/cycloramas, Moving panoramas, large-scale dioramas and semi-circle panoramas and many other related art and media forms.\n\nSince 1992 the International Panorama Council has held annual conferences throughout the world. The conferences are planned to provide a meaningful, professional exchange of ideas with lunches and dinners included, and a joint post-conference excursion to a panorama related site. Presentations in the conference proceedings range from illustrated essays on topographical mapping to restoration and conservation techniques. \n\n\n\nMost of the information in this article is taken from Gabriele Koller, (ed.), \"Die Welt der Panoramen. Zehn Jahre Internationale Panorama Konferenzen / The World of Panoramas. Ten Years of International Panorama Conferences\", Amberg 2003. The rest of the information is cited from the organization’s webpage and the following sources:\n"}
{"id": "54604579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54604579", "title": "Iraqi art", "text": "Iraqi art\n\nIraqi art, throughout its entire history, has been influenced by war, revolutions and frequent political changes. For centuries, the capital, Baghdad was the Medieval centre of the literary and artistic Arab world, but its artistic traditions suffered at the hands of the Mongol invaders in the 13th century. During other periods it has flourished, such as during the reign of Pir Budaq, or under Ottoman rule in the 16th century when Baghdad was known for its Ottoman miniature painting. During the rule of the Safavids, Iraqi art was influenced by Persian art, and it became a centre of poetry as well as arts. In the 20th century, an art revival, which combined both tradition and modern techniques, produced many notable poets, painters and sculptors who contributed to the inventory of public artworks, especially in Baghdad. These artists are highly regarded in the Middle East, and some have earned international recognition. The Iraqi modern art movement had a profound influence on pan-Arab art generally.\n\nThe art historian, Nada Shabout, points out that Iraqi art remains largely undocumented. The West has very little idea about Iraqi art. Problems associated with documenting a complete picture of Iraqi art have been compounded by the fact that many 20th-century artists, art historians and philosophers have been forced into exile, where they are isolated from their heritage and current practices. In addition, much of Iraq's art heritage has been looted or destroyed during periods of revolution, war and political unrest.\n\nIraq's art has a deep heritage that extends back in time to ancient Mesopotamian art. Iraq has one of the longest written traditions in the world. Maqam traditions in music and calligraphy have survived into the modern day. However, the continuity of Iraq's arts culture has been subject to the vicissitudes of invading armies for centuries. The Mongol invasion of the 13th-century devastated much traditional art and craft and is generally seen as a break in the tradition of Iraqi art. \n\nAlthough British archaeologists excavated a number of Iraqi sites, including Nimrud, Ninevah and Tell Halaf in Iraq in the 19th-century, they sent many of the artefacts and statues to museums around the world. It was not until the early 20th-century when a small group of Iraqi artists were awarded scholarships to study abroad that they became aware of ancient Sumerian art by visiting pretigious museums such as the Louvre, enabling them to reconnect with their cultural and intellectual heritage. Nevertheless, figurines, dating to the Neolithic period, found at the Palace of Tell Halaf and elsewhere, attest to Iraq's ancient artistic heritage.\n\nThe Sassanids ruled the region that is now Iraq and Iran between the 3rd and 7th centuries. Sasanian art is best represented in metalwork, jewellery, architecture and wall-reliefs. Few paintings from this period have survived, but an understanding of jewellery ornamentation can be inferred from pictorial and sculptural representations. \n\nDuring the early Islamic period, writing was transformed into an \"iconophoric message...a carrier of meaning independent of its form [and] into a subject worthy of the most elaborate ornamentation.\" Another development during this period was the use of repeating patterns or motifs on scrolls and wall-reliefs. Inherited from the Muslims, this highly stylised system of ornamentation was subsequently given the label of \"arabesque\". \nThe Abassid Dynasty controlled much of the region now encompassed by Iraq, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Syria, between the 8th and 13th-centuries. During the Abassid period, pottery achieved a high level of sophistication, calligraphy began to be used to decorate the surface of decorative objects and illuminated manuscripts, particularly Q'ranic texts became more complex and stylised. Iraq's first art school was established during this period, allowing artisans and crafts to flourish. \n\nAt the height of the Abassid period, in the late 12th-century, a stylistic movement of manuscript illustration and calligraphy emerged. Now known as the \"Baghdad School\" (or \"Mesopotamian School\"), this movement of Islamic art was characterised by representations of everyday life and the use of highly expressive faces rather than the stereotypical characters that had been used in the past. The school consisted of calligraphers, illustrators, transcribers and translators, who collaborated to produce illuminated manuscripts derived from non-Arabic sources. The works were primarily scientific, philosophical, social commentary or humorous entertainments. This movement continued for at least four decades, and dominated art in the first half of the 13th-century. Poetry also flourished during the Abbasid period, producing notable poets including: the 9th-century Sufi poets Mansur Al-Hallaj and Abū Nuwās al-Ḥasan ibn Hānī al-Ḥakamī. \n\nThe Abbasid artist, Yahya Al-Wasiti lived in Baghdad in the late Abassid era (12th to 13th-centuries) was the pre-eminent artist of the Baghdad school. His most well-known works include the llustrations for the book of the \"Maqamat\" (Assemblies) in 1237, a series of anecdotes of social satire written by al-Hariri. Al-Waiti's illustrations served as an inspiration for the 20th-century modern Baghdad art movement. Other examples of works in the style of the Baghdad School include the illustrations in \"Rasa'il al-Ikhwan al-Safa\" (\"The Epistles of the Sincere Brethren\"), (1287); an Arabic translation of Pedanius Dioscorides’ medical text, \"De Materia Medica\" (1224) and the illustrated \"Kalila wa Dimna\" (Fables of Bidpai), (1222); a collection of fables by the Hindu, Bidpai translated into Arabic.\n\nFor centuries, Baghdad was the capital of the Abbasid caliphate; its library was unrivalled and a magnet for intellectuals around the known world. However, in 1258, Baghdad fell to the Mongol invaders, who pillaged the city, decimating mosques, libraries and palaces, thereby destroying most of the city's literary, religious and artistic assets. The Mongols also killed between 200,000 and one million people, leaving the population totally demoralised and the city barely habitable. Iraqi art historians view this period as a time when the \"chain of pictorial art\" was broken.\n\nBetween the years 1400-1411 Iraq was ruled by the Jalayirid dynasty. During this time, Iraqi art and culture flourished. Between 1411 and 1469, during the rule of the Qara Quyunlu dynasty artists from different parts of the eastern Islamic world were invited to Iraq. Under the patronage of Pir Budaq, son of the Qara Quyunlu ruler, Jahan Shah (r. 1439–67), Iranian styles from Tabriz and Shiraz and even the styles of Timurid Central Asia were all brought together in Iraq. Baghdad's importance as a centre of the arts declined after Pir Budaq's death in 1466. The Qara Quyunlu period ended with the advent of the Aq Quyunlu. Though noted patrons of the arts, the Aq Quyunlu mostly focus on areas outside Iraq.\n\nBetween 1508 and 1534, Iraq came under the rule of the Safavid dynasty, which shifted the focus of arts to Iran. Baghdad experienced a revival in the arts during this period, and was also a centre for literary works. The poet Fuzûlî (ca. 1495–1556) wrote during the period. He wrote in the three dominant languages of his time: Arabic, Persian, and Turkish. Iraq was incorporated into the Ottoman Empire in 1534, during the reign of Suleyman the Magnificent. The Iraqi poet Fuzûlî wrote in Arabic, Persian and Turkish during this time, and continued writing poetry after Ottoman rule was established in 1534. During the 16th century, Baghdad underwent another period of artistic revival; Iraqi painting from this time is called the “Baghdad school” of Ottoman miniature painting.\n\nIraqi experienced a cultural shift between the years 1400 and 1600 CE, which is also reflected in its arts. In the 16th century, political rule in Iraq transitioned from the Turco-Mongol dynasties to the Ottoman Empire. In its past Iraq had been a centre of illuminated manuscripts but this art form experienced a general decline during this period.\n\nStatuary, wall paintings and jewellery from ancient sites in Iraq\nSelected artwork and handcrafts from post-Islamic structures and sites in Iraq \nUntil the 20th-century, Iraq had no tradition of easel painting. Traditional art, which included metal-work, rug-making and weaving, glass-blowing, ceramic tiles, calligraphy and wall murals were widely practised during the 19th-century. Some traditional practices traced their origins back to the 9th-century Assyrians. However, in the 19th-century, mural painters were generally seen as artisans rather than artists - although in traditional Islamic society, the distinction between artists and artists was not well defined. A few named individuals are known, including the painter, Abbud 'the Jewish' Naqqash and the calligrapher, painter and decorator; Hashim al-Khattat (\"Hashim the Calligrapher\", early 20th-century) (d. 1973) and Niazi Mawlawi hashim (19th century), but relatively few details of their lives and careers are known. \n\nIn the late 19th-century, the rise of nationalistic and intellectual movements across the Arab world led to calls for an Arab-lslamic cultural revival. Artists and intellectuals felt that the growth in Western influences was a threat to Arab cultural identity. At the same time as local artists began to adopt Western practices such as easel painting. they also searched consciously for a distinct national style.\n\nThe late 19th-century and early 20th-century are known as \"Nahda\" in Arabic. This term loosely translates as a \"revival\" or \"renaissance.\" Nahda became an important cultural movement which influenced all art forms - architecture, literature, poetry and the visual arts. \n\nAt the turn of the 20th-century, a small group of Iraqis were sent to Istanbul for military training, where painting and drawing was included as part of the curriculum. This group, which became known as the \"Ottoman artists,\" included Abdul Qadir Al Rassam (1882-1952); Mohammed Salim Moussali (1886-?); Hassan Sami, Assem Hafith (1886-1978); Mohammed Saleh Zaki (1888-1974) and Hajji Mohammed Salim (1883-1941). were exposed to European painting techniques. Their style of painting was realism, impressionism or romanticism. On their return to Baghdad, they set up studios and began to offer painting lessons to talented, local artists. Many of the next generation of artists began by studying with the artists from the Ottoman group. Their public works, which included murals, public monuments and artworks in the foyers of institutions or commercial buildings, exposed Iraqi people to Western art and contributed to art appreciation. \n\nAs Middle-Eastern nations began to emerge from colonial rule, a nationalist sentiment developed. Artists consciously sought out ways to combine Western art techniques with traditional art and local subject matter. In Iraq, 20th century artists were at the forefront of developing a national style, and provided a model for other Arab nations who wanted to forge their own national identities. \n\nPoetry and verse remains a major art form in modern Iraq and Iraqi poets were inspired by the literature of the 15th and 16th-centuries when Iraq was the centre of Arabic world. Notable 20th-century poets include Nazik Al-Malaika (1923-2007), one of the best known woman poets in the Arab world and who wrote the poem \"My Brother Jafaar\" for her brother, who was killed during the Al-Wathbah uprising in 1948; Muḥammad Mahdī al-Jawāhirī (1899-1997); Badr Shakir al-Sayyab (1926-1964); Abd al-Wahhab Al-Bayati (1926-1999) Ma'rif al-Rasafi (1875-1845); Abdulraziq Abdulwahed (b. 1930); the revolutionary poet, Muzaffar Al-Nawab (b. 1934); Buland Al Haidari (b. 1926) and Janil Sidiq al-Zahaiwi (1863-1936). In post-war Iraq, poetry was very much influenced by the political and social upheavals that Iraqis had experienced throughout the 20th-century and with many poets living in exile, themes of 'strangeness' and 'being a stranger' often dominated contemporary poetry.\n\nIraqi poets, including Badr Shakir al-Sayyab, often turned to Iraqi folklore which they often integrated with Western mythology. He is considered one of the most influential Arab poets because he was the first to develop the free form style of poetry, and therefore a prime mover in the development of modernist poetry. Contemporary Iraqi poetry is considerably freer than traditional verse, and is imbued with social and political awareness.\n\nScholars point out that very little is known about photography in Iraq. Iraq was relatively slow to adopt photography as an industry and art form, due to the religious and social prohibitions on making figurative images. The first camera entered Iraq as late as 1895 when an Iraqi photographer, Abdul-Karim Tiouti, from Basra, returned to Iraq following a trip to India where he had studied the art of photography. He founded a photographic studio and practiced this profession for many years.\n\nIn the first decades of the 20th-century, several factors contributed to the spread of photography. Firstly, British and European archaeologists began using photography to document ancient sites in the second half of the 19th-century. Religious missionaries were also using the camera to document historic religious sites. These activities exposed local Iraqis to the technology, and provided young men with employment opportunities as photographers and camera-men assisting archaeological teams. For instance, throughout the 1920s and early 1930s, the American anthropologist, Professor Henry Field was involved in several expeditions to ancient Mesopotamian sites and in his publications, he acknowledged the assistance of Iraqi photographer by the name of Shauqat (who was a nephew of the photographer, Abdul-Karim Tiouti). The writer, Gertrude Bell also reports training a young boy in the process of developing photographs in Baghdad in 1925. A second factor was that, in the 1920s, King Faisal I arranged for a photographic portrait of his wife, thereby popularising photographic portraiture. \n\nIn the years following the first world war, a number of photographers arrived in Iraq. Some of these were displaced Armenians, who had prior experience working with precision equipment, including cameras. These early photographers were mostly concerned with photographing military scenes and personnel. Around this time, a photographer named Tartaran, set up a studio at the entrance to the Mosul Elementary School. From there, local school children could observe the photographer at work. The influential Mosul photographer, Murad al-Daghistani, who specialised in capturing the life and work of every-day people in Mosul, may have developed his passion for photography after watching Tartaran developing photographs in his dark-room. By the 1940s, the number of photographic studios had proliferated, especially in Mosul, Basra and Baghdad. Important 20th-century Iraqi photographers include: Amri Salim, Hazem Bak, Murad Daghistani, Covadis Makarian, Sami Nasrawi, Ahmed Al-Qabbani, Jassem Al-Zubaidi, Fouad Shaker and Rashad Ghazi amongst others.\n\nThe earliest photographers used the medium to record an Iraqi way of life that was in danger of being lost as the country 'modernised'. The photographer, Latif al-Ani, who is often described as the \"father of Iraqi photography\", was very much concerned with documenting cosmopolitan Iraqi life in the 1950s, as he saw it. By the mid 20th-century, photography had become a popular medium for expressing social and political concerns. The artist, Jananne al-Ani has explored the dichotomy of Orient/ Occident in her work, and has also used photography to question the wearing of the veil while Halim Alkarim uses blurred images to suggest the political instability of Iraq.\n\nModern architecture presented contemporary architects with a major challenge. A continuous tradition of both domestic and public architecture was evident, but failed to conform with modern materials and methods. From the early 20th-century, architecture employed new styles and new materials and public taste became progressively modern. The period was characterised by original designs produced by local architects, who had been trained in Europe, including: Mohamed Makiya, Makkiyya al-Jadiri, Mazlum, Qatan Adani and Rifat Chadirji. \n\nLike visual artists, Iraqi architects searched for a distinctly national style of architecture and this became a priority in the 20th-century. Mohammed Makkiyya and Rifat Chadirji were the two most influential architects in terms of defining modern Iraqi architecture. The architect, Chadirji, who wrote a seminal book on Iraqi architecture, called this approach \"international regionalism\". He explains: \n\nArchitects sought an architectural language that would remind visitors of ancient Iraqi architectural history. To that end, architects used Iraqi motifs in their designs and incorporated traditional design practices, such as temperature control, natural ventilation, courtyards, screen walls and reflected light within their work. Architects also became designers who designed furniture and lighting with reference to the peculiarities of Iraqi climate, culture and material availability.\n\nAs cities underwent a period of \"modernisation\" in the early decades of the 20th-century, traditional structures came under threat and subject to demolition. The mudhif (or reed dwelling) or the \"bayt\" (houses) with features such as the \"shanashol\" (the distinctive oriel window with timber lattice-work) and \"bad girs\" (wind-catchers) were being lost with alarming haste.\n\nThe architect, Rifat Chadirji along with his father, Kamil Chadirji, feared the vernacular architecture and ancient monuments would be lost to the new development associated with the oil boom in the mid-century. They documented the region photographically and in 1995, published a book entitled, \"The Photographs of Kamil Chadirji: Social Life in the Middle East, 1920-1940,\" which recorded the buildings and lifestyles of the Iraqi people. The artist, Lorna Selim, who taught drawing at Baghdad University's Department of Architecture, in the 1960s took her students to sketch traditional buildings along the Tigris and was especially interested in exposing young architects to Iraq's vernacular architecture, alley-ways and historical monuments. The work of Selim and Chadirji inspired a new generation of architects to consider including traditional design features - such as Iraqi practices of temperature control, natural ventilation, courtyards, screen walls and reflected light - in their designs.\n\nDuring the first three decades of the 20th-century, there was little progress in art. Following World War One, a group of Polish officers, who had been part of the Foreign Legion, arrived in Baghdad and introduced local artists to a European style of painting, which in turn fostered a public appreciation of art. The Institute of Fine Arts and the Fine Arts Society were established in 1940-41 and the Iraqi Artists' Society was founded in 1956, after which many exhibitions were mounted.\n\nIn 1958, British rule was overthrown and Abdul Karim Qasim assumed power. This led to triumphant demonstrations and expressions of national pride. In early 1959, Qasim commissioned Jawad Saleem to create \"Nasb al-Hurriyah\" (\"Monument to Freedom,\") to commemorate Iraq's independence. Artists began to look to their history for inspiration and employed arabesque geometry and calligraphy as visual elements in their compositions, and referred to folk tales and scenes drawn from everyday life for artistic inspiration.\n\nIn the late 1970s and throughout the 1980s, the Ba'ath Party mounted a program to beautify the city of Baghdad which led to numerous public art works being commissioned. Designed to instil a sense of national pride within the population, and to immortalise the leader, Saddam Hussein, these works provided work opportunities to the nation's architects, engineers and sculptors. During this period, artists showed a distinct preference for abstract works, which allowed them to evade censorship. Baghdad is now dotted with monuments, including Al-Shaheed Monument and The Monument to the Unknown Soldier and the Victory Arch, along with many smaller statues, fountains and sculptures; all constructed in the second half of the 20th-century, and showing increasing levels of abstraction over time. \n\nA notable feature of the Iraqi visual arts scene lies in artists' desires to link tradition and modernity in artworks. For a number of artists, the use of calligraphy or script has become an important part of integrating traditional artistic elements into an abstract artwork. In this way, the use of letters connects Iraqi artists with the broader hurufiyya movement (also known as the \"North African Lettrist Movement).\" The Iraqi artist, Madiha Omar, who was active from the mid-1940s, was one of the pioneers of the hurufiyya movement, since she was the first to explore the use of Arabic script in a contemporary art context and exhibited hurufiyya-inspired works in Washington as early as 1949.\n\nThe 20th-century Iraqi arts scene is notable for the number of different art groups or art movements that emerged in the post-colonial period. Each of these groups sought to forge a national art aesthetic that acknowledged Iraq's deep art heritage and incorporated it in contemporary artworks. Although there were tensions in the different visions of these groups, collectively, they actively searched for new national vision which would enable the country to develop internally, as well as take its place on a world stage. These groups include:\n\nOther art groups, including the \"Triangle Group\", the \"Shadows\" (formed by Ali Talib) and the \"Academicians\" formed throughout the 1970s, but few lasted for more than a year or two.\n\nIraq has produced a number of world-class painters and sculptors including Ismail Fatah Al Turk (1934-2008), Khalid Al-Jadir (1924-1990), and Mohammed Ghani Hikmat.\n\nFaeq Hassan (1914-1992), considered the founder of modern plastic art in Iraq, was among several Iraqi artists who were selected to study art at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts before the Second World War. Hassan and the art group he founded formed the foundation of Iraq's strong 20th-century artistic tradition. Hassan founded the Institute of Fine Arts in Baghdad; many of Iraq's best known artists studied at this institution.\n\nJawad Saleem (b. 1919) is a painter and sculptor from Baghdad who (together with Mohammed Ghani (1929-2011) and Hassan Shakir) (1925-2004), founded the influential Baghdad Modern Art Group in 1951. Saleem was commissioned to create the \"Monument of Freedom\" in Baghdad's city centre overlooking Liberation Square. Saleem, and his student, Khaled al-Rahal have been described as \"the two pillars of modern Iraqi art.\" \n\nDia Azzawis (b. 1939) work, described as contemporary art, includes references to Arabic calligraphy, as well as Sumerian and Assyrian art. Azzawi has been the inspiration for many contemporary calligraffiti artists. \n\nJamil Hamoudi (1924-2003) is both a painter and sculptor. Like Azzawi, Hamoudi also studied at the Baghdad School of Fine Art. He was interested in the cubist movement and in 1947, he self-identified with the surrealist movement, only to later distance himself citing \"A dark, saturnine atmosphere emanated from [their canvases] the effect of which was to arouse a feeling of despair in human beings.\" His paintings are brightly coloured and make use of shapes like circles, triangles and arches. For sculpture he frequently uses plaster, stone, wood, metal, copper, glass, marble, Plexiglas and ceramics. In 1973 he was appointed to the directorship of the Fine Arts at the Ministry of Culture. \n\nOther notable artists include: Madiha Omar (1908–2005) who is regarded as a pioneer of the Hurufiyya movement; Shakir Hassan Al Said (1925-2004); Hassan Massoudy (b. 1944); Khaled al-Rahal (1926-1987); Saadi Al Kaabi (b 1937); Ismael Al Khaid (b. abt 1900) and Rafa al-Nasiri (b. 1940).\n\nContemporary painting and sculpture by Iraqi artists\n\nFrom 1969, the Arab nationalist political agenda of the Ba'ath Party encouraged Iraqi artists to create work that would explain Iraq's new national identity in terms of its historical roots. The Iraqi Ministry of Culture is involved in efforts to preserve tradition Irai crafts like leatherworking, copper working, and carpet making.\n\nIn 2003, during the overthrow of the Ba'ath government, key institutions, including the Pioneers Museum and the Museum of Modern Art, were looted and vandalised. Approximately 8,500 paintings and sculptures, especially were stolen or vandalised. The occupying forces insisted on a voluntary return of stolen artworks, a position which resulted in very few works being returned. A few independent galleries purchased artworks with a view to returning them once a suitable national museum could be established. A committee, headed by the respected artist and sculptor, Mohammed Ghani Hikmat, was formed with the objective of recovering stolen artworks and proved somehwat more effective. By 2010, some 1,500 artworks had been recovered, including important works, such as the statue, \"Motherhood\" by Jawad Saleem.\n\nSince 2003, attempts at de-Ba'athification have been evident, with the announcement of plans to rid Baghdad's cityscape of monuments constructed during Saddam Husssein's rule. However, due to public pressure, plans have been made to store such monuments rather than arrange for their total destruction as had occurred in previous regimes. In addition, efforts are underway to erect new monuments which display significant figures from Iraq's history and culture. Recent developments also include plans to conserve and convert the former homes of Iraqi artists and intellectuals, inclduing the artist, Jawad Saleem, the poet, Muhammad Mahdi al-Jawahiri and others.\n\nIn 2008, Iraq was again involved in violence as coalition forces entered the country. Many artists fled Iraq. The Ministry of Culture has estimated that more than 80 percent of all Iraqi artists are now living in exile. The number of artists living abroad has created opportunities for new galleries in London and other major centres to mount exhibitions featuring the work of exiled artists from Iraqi and Middle Eastern. One such gallery is Soho's Pomegranate gallery established in the 1970s by the modernist Iraqi sculptor, Oded Halahmy, which not only mounts exhibitions, but also holds permanent collections of notable Iraqi artists. \n\nShortages of art materials were commonplace in the aftermath of war. However, visual artists such as Hanaa Malallah and Sadik Kwaish Alfraji turned to \"found objects\" and incorporated these into their artworks. Malallah consciously included shrapnel and bullets in her paintings and called this the \"Ruins Technique\" which allows her to not only make statements about war, but also to explore how objects become ruins.\n\nLiterature, art and architecture are cultural assets in Iraq. However, certain archaeological sites, and museums have been ransacked by Islamic terrorists, notably the ancient city of Nimrud, near Mosul; the Adad and Mashqi gates at Nineveh; the ancient city of Hatra The United Nations has described acts of cultural vandalism as \"war crimes.\" In 2014, Islamic militants invaded the city of Mosul, destroying ancient monuments and statues, which they perceived to be blasphemous, and ransacked the History Museum. Mostafa Taei, a resident of Hamam al-Alil was jailed by ISIL when the terrorists took over his town in 2014. ISIL banned any images or artworks of the human form, and Taei says he was beaten when the group learned that he was still painiting. During this period, Taei's art \"took a subversive turn, becoming a gruesome record of atrocities: decapitations, hangings, injured children and sobbing widows, all painted in an unschooled Naive art style.\" He also started to paint \"martyr posters\" that depict the soldiers and police officers who have died during the military operations to liberate Nineveh.\n\nThe art historian, Nada Shabout, notes that the destruction of Iraqi art in the period after 2003, assumed both tangible and intangible forms. Not only were the artworks and art institutions looted or destroyed, but art production also suffered from the lack of availability of art materials and the loss of many intellectuals, including artists, who were forced into exile. This contributed to an environment that failed to nurture artists, and saw young, upcoming artists operating in a void.\n\nIraqi monumental artworks, both ancient and modern, feature prominently on banknotes of the Iraqi dinar.\n\nSelected bank-notes featuring monumental artwork\nThe principal venues include: \n\n\nMajor Iraqi public monument/ statues and public buildings\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1603873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603873", "title": "Isthmo-Colombian Area", "text": "Isthmo-Colombian Area\n\nThe Isthmo-Colombian Area is defined as a cultural area encompassing those territories occupied predominantly by speakers of the Chibchan languages at the time of European contact. It includes portions of the Central American isthmus like eastern El Salvador, eastern Honduras, Caribbean Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, and northern Colombia.\nIt is a portion of what has previously been termed the Intermediate Area, and was defined in a chapter by John W. Hoopes and Oscar Fonseca Z. in the 2003 book \"Gold and Power in Ancient Costa Rica, Panama, and Colombia\".\n\nThe concept draws upon multidisciplinary perspectives, including linguistic reconstructions by Costa Rican anthropological linguist Adolfo Constenla Umaña and observations on Chibchan genetics by Costa Rican anthropological geneticist Ramiro Barrantes Mesén. It is currently being refined through ongoing studies of the linguistics. genetics, archaeology, art history, ethnography, and ethnohistory of this part of the Americas. This includes more recent study of the relationships between this area and the Antilles within a Pan-Caribbean framework.\n\nArchaeological knowledge of this area has received relatively little attention compared to its adjoining neighbors to the north and south, despite the fact that scholars such as Max Uhle, William Henry Holmes, C. V. Hartman, and George Grant MacCurdy undertook studies of archaeological sites and collections here over a century ago that were augmented by further research by Samuel Kirkland Lothrop, John Alden Mason, Doris Zemurray Stone, William Duncan Strong, Gordon Willey, and others in the early 20th century. One of the reasons for the relative lack of attention is the relative absence of monumental architecture that is so characteristic of the neighboring culture areas of Mesoamerica and the Andes areas and a long history of ethnocentric perceptions by Western scholars of what represented civilization and what did not.\n\nThere are a large number of sites with impressive platform mounds, plazas, paved roads, stone sculpture, and artifacts made from jade, gold, and ceramic materials. These include Las Mercedes, Guayabo de Turrialba, Cutrís, and Cubujuquí in Costa Rica and Pueblito ( in Tayrona National Natural Park) and Ciudad Perdida in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Maria of Colombia. Research at sites such as Rivas, Costa Rica helps to document the configurations of large settlements in the centuries prior to the Spanish Conquest. Some of the best-known Isthmo-Colombian sculptures are the stone spheres of Costa Rica. Another area that has provided valuable archaeological information is the Gran Coclé region in Panama, largely coinciding with the modern-day Coclé Province.\n\nThe Isthmo-Colombian Area was home to a wide variety of indigenous peoples. A large number of them were speakers of Chibchan languages. These include (but are not limited to) the Pech, the Rama, the Maleku, the Bribri, the Cabécar, the Guaymí, the Naso, the Kuna, the Kogi, the Motilon, the U'wa, and the Muisca.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "164420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164420", "title": "Jean-Henri Fabre", "text": "Jean-Henri Fabre\n\nJean-Henri Casimir Fabre (22 December 1823 – 11 October 1915) was a French naturalist, entomologist, and author known for the lively style of his popular books on the lives of insects.\n\nFabre was born on 22 December 1823 in Saint-Léons in Aveyron, France.\nFabre was largely an autodidact, owing to the poverty of his family. Nevertheless, he acquired a primary teaching certificate at the young age of 19 and began teaching in Carpentras whilst pursuing further studies. In 1849, he was appointed to a teaching post in Ajaccio (Corsica), then in 1853 moved on to the lycée in Avignon.\nFabre was a popular teacher, physicist, chemist and botanist. However, he is probably best known for his findings in the field of entomology, the study of insects, and is considered by many to be the father of modern entomology. Much of his enduring popularity is due to his marvellous teaching ability and his manner of writing about the lives of insects in biographical form, which he preferred to a clinically detached, journalistic mode of recording. In doing so he combined what he called \"my passion for scientific truth\" with keen observations and an engaging, colloquial style of writing. Fabre (translated) wrote:\nHis \"Souvenirs Entomologiques\" is a series of texts on insects and arachnids. He influenced the later writings of Charles Darwin, who called Fabre \"an inimitable observer\". Fabre, however, was a Christian who remained sceptical about Darwin's theory of evolution, as he always held back from all theories and systems. His special force was exact and detailed observation, field research, always avoiding general conclusions from his observations, which he considered premature.\n\nIn one of Fabre's most famous experiments, he arranged pine processionary caterpillars to form a continuous loop around the edge of a pot. As each caterpillar instinctively followed the silken trail of the caterpillars in front of it, the group moved around in a circle for seven days. He further was able to forecast low atmospheric pressure events by observing the behaviours of the caterpillars.\n\nHe died on 11 October 1915. \nIn the English speaking world, he became known through the extensive translations of his work by Alexander Teixeira de Mattos, carried out from 1912 to 1922.\n\n\nThe site of his birth, at St Léons, near Millau is now the site of Micropolis, a tourist attraction dedicated to popularising entomology and a museum on his life.\n\nHis last home and office, the Harmas de Fabre in Provence is similarly a museum devoted to his life and work. His insect collection is preserved in the Musée Requien in Avignon.\n\nThe French post office commemorated Fabre in 1956 with a stamp depicting a portrait of him.\n\nThe 1951 biographical film \"Monsieur Fabre\" is devoted to his life.\n\n\"Blood of the Mantis\", a 2009 fantasy novel by the British author Adrian Tchaikovsky is dedicated to Fabre.\n\nFabre appears as the only major human character in a Caper story parody set on his property in Matthew Bennardo's short story \"The Famous Fabre Fly Caper\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56506533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56506533", "title": "Kate Harding", "text": "Kate Harding\n\nKate Harding (born c. 1975) is a feminist and fat-acceptance writer. She was founding editor of the Shapely Prose blog, author of \"Asking For It: The Alarming Rise of Rape Culture—and What We Can Do About It,\" co-author of \"Lessons From the Fat-o-Sphere: Quit Dieting and Declare a Truce with Your Body\", and co-editor of anthology \"Nasty Women: Feminism, Resistance, and Revolution in Trump's America.\"\n\nHarding attended the University of Toronto for college, majoring in English, then earned an MFA in fiction from Vermont College of Fine Arts.\n\nHarding was founding editor of a blog called Shapely Prose, which she edited from 2007 to 2010.\n\nHard is co-author, with Marianne Kirby, of the 2009 book \"Lessons From the Fat-o-Sphere: Quit Dieting and Declare a Truce with Your Body\" (Penguin/Perigee). \n\nIn 2015, Harding published \"Asking For It: The Alarming Rise of Rape Culture—and What We Can Do About It\". In \"Slate\", Amanda Marcotte described Harding's approach in the book as \"working as a cultural critic, focusing on the cultural response to and understanding of sexual assault more than the crimes themselves\". In the \"Los Angeles Times\", Rebecca Carroll called the book \"a smart, impassioned and well-researched agenda for a strictly no-nonsense understanding of rape culture.\" \n\nIn 2017, Harding co-edited an anthology with Samhita Mukhopadhyay, entitled \"Nasty Women: Feminism, Resistance, and Revolution in Trump's America\".\n\nHarding is married and lives in Chicago.\n\n"}
{"id": "27653201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27653201", "title": "Kotlet schabowy", "text": "Kotlet schabowy\n\nKotlet schabowy is a Polish variety of pork breaded cutlet coated with breadcrumbs similar to Viennese schnitzel, but made of pork tenderloin (with the bone or without), or with pork chop. There's also the Polish variety of the chicken breast cutlet coated with breadcrumbs looking somewhat similar, or the turkey cutlet coated with breadcrumbs (\"kotlet z indyka\" ) made the same way.\n\nThe history of the Polish pork cutlet \"schabowy\" dates back to the 19th century. The collection of different recipes for cutlets such as \"schabowy\" is featured in an 1860 cookbook by Lucyna Ćwierczakiewiczowa entitled \"365 obiadów za pięć złotych\" (\"365 Dinners for Five Zloty\"), but missing from the 1786 cookbook by Wojciech Wielądek called \"Kucharz doskonały\" (The Perfect Chef), thus suggesting, that the dish wasn't known (or at least, wasn't popular) before the 19th century. Typical ingredients include: eggs, lard or oil, spices, pork tenderloin with or without bone, breadcrumbs and flour.\n\nPork tenderloin is cut into 1 inch slices and pounded with mallet until it becomes thinner and soft. It is marinated in milk and onions. Eggs and spices are combined on a separate plate and lightly beaten. The meat is dipped in flour, then in egg, and then covered in breadcrumbs. The oil is heated in a frying pan till it starts to sizzle and the meat is placed onto it, then turned over a couple of times. Served hot. \"Kotlet schabowy\" can be served with cooked potatoes, mashed potatoes, fried mushrooms, cooked vegetables (seared cabbage), with salads or with coleslaw.\n\n"}
{"id": "57081858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57081858", "title": "List of Brazilian state trees", "text": "List of Brazilian state trees\n\nhttps://tudosobreplantas.wordpress.com/2009/05/15/arvores-simbolos-dos-estados-brasileiros/\n"}
{"id": "55183979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55183979", "title": "Madonna and Child with Two Musician Angels", "text": "Madonna and Child with Two Musician Angels\n\nThe Madonna and Child with Two Musician Angels is an oil on panel painting by Correggio, now in the Uffizi in Florence. Some date it to 1514-15 but it is more commonly dated to 1515-16.\n\nOn the back of the painting is a 16th century monogram from the grand-ducal gallery in Florence, showing the identification number 2523, which does not feature in any of the lists of the gallery's holdings at that time. Though it cannot be clearly traced in any 17th century inventories, it was probably one of the works taken to Düsseldorf by Anna Maria Luisa de' Medici in 1691 on her marriage to John William, Elector Palatine and which (after John William's death in 1717) were brought back to Florence. The first official mention places the work in the inventory of the Gallerie fiorentine in 1798, in the Sala dei Maestri Italiani, where it remained until the mid 19th century. Many copies were commissioned from the 18th century onwards, attesting to its popularity. It was then attributed to Titian, but Giovanni Morelli reattributed it as an early work by a young Correggio - this became the dominant attribution, supported by \"the minute technical execution and the clear and shining colours\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16414153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16414153", "title": "Megatext", "text": "Megatext\n\nMegatext is a term used by scholars of speculative fiction that describes the elaborate fictional background, tropes, images, and conventions that science fiction or fantasy narratives share.\n\nThis collective body of knowledge, utilized by writers and recognized by readers, was first described by Christine Brooke-Rose in her 1981 work, \"A Rhetoric of the Unreal: Studies in Narrative and Structure, Especially of the Fantastic\". Brooke-Rose builds on the culture or referential code first described by Roland Barthes in his work S/Z. \n\nBrooke-Rose describes a subconsciously familiar set of images, attributes and ideas that are shared within a particular genre. She cites examples in several genres, but goes into critical detail when considering Fantasy, specifically the work of J. R. R. Tolkien.\n\nDamien Broderick builds on this concept, separating Brooke-Rose's criticism of Tolkien and the specific exposition in Tolkien's work, from the megatext concept itself and introducing other comparable Science Fiction theories, such as the work of Gary K. Wolfe in \"The Known and the Unknown: the Iconography of Science Fiction\" (1979). the \"mega-text\" in Broderick's description is much more clearly identified as a shared cultural between writer and reader.\n\nIn \"The Evolving Megatext of Fantasy\" Allen Stroud identifies the distinction between the author's specific fictional world mythos (macrotext or world bible) and the way in which the megatext of fantasy has changed, spreading out across multiple media to incorporate many shared concepts into hundreds of different fictions. Stroud notes that many of these concepts are washed of their cultural origins in their new forms, relying instead on more popular contemporary images and archetypes. \n\n"}
{"id": "56896475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56896475", "title": "Milivoje Pavlović", "text": "Milivoje Pavlović\n\nMilivoje Pavlović (Serbian Cyrillic: Миливоје Павловић; Medveđa, 1947) is an awarded Serbian writer and university professor, as well as literature, culture and media scholar.\n\nHe studied Serbian language and Yugoslav literature at the Faculty of Philology in Belgrade. He has MA and PhD in Literature Studies.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1991 he was the director of Serbian Cultural and Educational Community (Kulturno-prosvetna zajednica Srbije). From 1991 to 1994 he was elected twice for the Republic Information Minister. From the end of 1994 to February 2001 he was the director of Radio Belgrade. From 1998 worked as a university lecturer – first at the Art Academy in Belgrade, and afterwards on the Faculty of Business Studies and the Faculty of Culture and Media. Currently he is a professor and the Dean of the Faculty of Culture and Media and the Pro-rector of the University \"Megatrend\" in Belgrade.\n\nHis works are in national and foreign literary and multimedia anthologies. He edited a book on the radio medium \"The Epoch's Ear on Duty\" (2000), and books by Аleksandr Solzhenitsyn and Miroljub Todorović, as well as a number of collection of works on Signalism, international neo-avant-garde movement originated in Serbia in late 1960-s.\n\nHe is a member of the Journalists' Association of Serbia and the Association of Writers of Serbia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12314286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12314286", "title": "Nimrud lens", "text": "Nimrud lens\n\nThe Nimrud lens, also called Layard lens, is a 3000-year-old piece of rock crystal, which was unearthed in 1850 by Austen Henry Layard at the Assyrian palace of Nimrud, in modern-day Iraq. It may have been used as a magnifying glass, or as a burning-glass to start fires by concentrating sunlight, or it may have been a piece of decorative inlay.\n\nThe lens is slightly oval and was roughly ground, perhaps on a lapidary wheel. It has a focal point about from the flat side and a focal length of about 12 cm. This would make it equivalent to a 3× magnifying glass. The surface of the lens has twelve cavities that were opened during grinding, which would have contained naphtha or some other fluid trapped in the raw crystal. The lens is said to be able to focus sunlight although the focus is far from perfect. Because the lens is made from natural rock crystal the material of the lens has not deteriorated significantly over time.\n\nThe Nimrud lens is on display in the British Museum.\n\nThe function of the lens is not clear, with some authors suggesting that it was used as an optical lens and others suggesting a decorative function.\n\nAssyrian craftsmen made intricate engravings and could have used a magnifying lens in their work. The discoverer of the lens noted that he had found very small inscriptions on Assyrian artefacts which he suspected had been achieved with the aid of a lens.\n\nItalian scientist Giovanni Pettinato of the University of Rome has proposed that the lens was used by the ancient Assyrians as part of a telescope and that this explains their knowledge of astronomy (see Babylonian astronomy). Experts on Assyrian archaeology are unconvinced, doubting that the optical quality of the lens is sufficient to be of much use. The ancient Assyrians saw the planet Saturn as a god surrounded by a ring of serpents, which Pettinato suggests was their interpretation of Saturn's rings as seen through a telescope. Other experts say that serpents occur frequently in Assyrian mythology and note that there is no mention of a telescope in any of the many surviving Assyrian astronomical writings.\n\nAccording to his book, Layard found the lens buried beneath other pieces of glass which looked like the enamel of an object, perhaps made of wood or ivory, which had disintegrated. The British Museum curator's notes propose that the lens could have been used \"as a piece of inlay, perhaps for furniture\" and that there is no evidence that the Assyrians used lenses for their optical qualities, e.g. for magnification, telescopy or for starting fire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8164987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8164987", "title": "Nsukka group", "text": "Nsukka group\n\nThe Nsukka group is the name given to a group of Nigerian artists who were associated with the University of Nigeria, Nsukka in the 1970s. They are known, as a group, for working to revive the practice of \"uli\" and incorporate its designs into contemporary art using media such as acrylic paint, tempera, gouache, pen and ink, pastel, oil paint, and watercolor. Although traditionally \"uli\" artists were female, many of the artists of the group were male. Some were poets and writers in addition to being artists.\n\nAmong the artists associated with the group are:\n\n"}
{"id": "213354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213354", "title": "Positive feedback", "text": "Positive feedback\n\nPositive feedback is a process that occurs in a feedback loop in which the effects of a small disturbance on a system include an increase in the magnitude of the perturbation.\nThat is, A produces more of B which in turn produces more of A. In contrast, a system in which the results of a change act to reduce or counteract it has negative feedback. Both concepts play an important role in science and engineering, including biology, chemistry, and cybernetics.\n\nMathematically, positive feedback is defined as a positive loop gain around a closed loop of cause and effect.\nThat is, positive feedback is in phase with the input, in the sense that it adds to make the input larger.\nPositive feedback tends to cause system instability. When the loop gain is positive and above 1, there will typically be exponential growth, increasing oscillations, chaotic behavior or other divergences from equilibrium. System parameters will typically accelerate towards extreme values, which may damage or destroy the system, or may end with the system latched into a new stable state. Positive feedback may be controlled by signals in the system being filtered, damped, or limited, or it can be cancelled or reduced by adding negative feedback.\n\nPositive feedback is used in digital electronics to force voltages away from intermediate voltages into '0' and '1' states. On the other hand, thermal runaway is a type of positive feedback that can destroy semiconductor junctions. Positive feedback in chemical reactions can increase the rate of reactions, and in some cases can lead to explosions. Positive feedback in mechanical design causes tipping-point, or 'over-centre', mechanisms to snap into position, for example in switches and locking pliers. Out of control, it can cause bridges to collapse. Positive feedback in economic systems can cause boom-then-bust cycles. A familiar example of positive feedback is the loud squealing or howling sound produced by audio feedback in public address systems: the microphone picks up sound from its own loudspeakers, amplifies it, and sends it through the speakers again.\n\nPositive feedback enhances or amplifies an effect by it having an influence on the process which gave rise to it. For example, when part of an electronic output signal returns to the input, and is in phase with it, the system gain is increased. The feedback from the outcome to the originating process can be direct, or it can be via other state variables. Such systems can give rich qualitative behaviors, but whether the feedback is instantaneously positive or negative in sign has an extremely important influence on the results. Positive feedback reinforces and negative feedback moderates the original process. \"Positive\" and \"negative\" in this sense refer to loop gains greater than or less than zero, and do not imply any value judgements as to the desirability of the outcomes or effects. A key feature of positive feedback is thus that small disturbances get bigger. When a change occurs in a system, positive feedback causes further change, in the same direction.\n\nA simple feedback loop is shown in the diagram. If the loop gain AB is positive, then a condition of \"positive\" or \"regenerative\" feedback exists.\n\nIf the functions A and B are linear and AB is smaller than unity, then the overall system gain from the input to output is finite, but can be very large as AB approaches unity. In that case, it can be shown that the overall or \"closed loop\" gain from input to output is:\n\nWhen AB > 1, the system is unstable, so does not have a well-defined gain; the gain may be called infinite.\n\nThus depending on the feedback, state changes can be convergent, or divergent. The result of positive feedback is to augment changes, so that small perturbations may result in big changes.\n\nA system in equilibrium in which there is positive feedback to any change from its current state may be unstable, in which case the system is said to be in an unstable equilibrium. The magnitude of the forces that act to move such a system away from its equilibrium are an increasing function of the \"distance\" of the state from the equilibrium.\n\nPositive feedback does not necessarily imply instability of an equilibrium, for example stable \"on\" and \"off\" states may exist in positive-feedback architectures.\n\nIn the real world, positive feedback loops typically do not cause ever-increasing growth, but are modified by limiting effects of some sort. According to Donella Meadows:\n\nHysteresis, in which the starting point affects where the system ends up, can be generated by positive feedback. When the gain of the feedback loop is above 1, then the output moves away from the input: if it is above the input, then it moves towards the nearest positive limit, while if it is below the input then it moves towards the nearest negative limit.\n\nOnce it reaches the limit, it will be stable. However, if the input goes past the limit, then the feedback will change sign and the output will move in the opposite direction until it hits the opposite limit. The system therefore shows bistable behaviour.\n\nThe terms \"positive\" and \"negative\" were first applied to feedback before World War II. The idea of positive feedback was already current in the 1920s with the introduction of the regenerative circuit.\n\nAccording to confusion in the terms arose shortly after this:\n\nRegenerative circuits were invented and patented in 1914 for the amplification and reception of very weak radio signals. Carefully controlled positive feedback around a single transistor amplifier can multiply its gain by 1,000 or more. Therefore, a signal can be amplified 20,000 or even 100,000 times in one stage, that would normally have a gain of only 20 to 50. The problem with regenerative amplifiers working at these very high gains is that they easily become unstable and start to oscillate. The radio operator has to be prepared to tweak the amount of feedback fairly continuously for good reception. Modern radio receivers use the superheterodyne design, with many more amplification stages, but much more stable operation and no positive feedback.\n\nThe oscillation that can break out in a regenerative radio circuit is used in electronic oscillators. By the use of tuned circuits or a piezoelectric crystal (commonly quartz), the signal that is amplified by the positive feedback remains linear and sinusoidal. There are several designs for such harmonic oscillators, including the Armstrong oscillator, Hartley oscillator, Colpitts oscillator, and the Wien bridge oscillator. They all use positive feedback to create oscillations.\n\nMany electronic circuits, especially amplifiers, incorporate negative feedback. This reduces their gain, but improves their linearity, input impedance, output impedance, and bandwidth, and stabilises all of these parameters, including the closed-loop gain. These parameters also become less dependent on the details of the amplifying device itself, and more dependent on the feedback components, which are less likely to vary with manufacturing tolerance, age and temperature. The difference between positive and negative feedback for AC signals is one of phase: if the signal is fed back out of phase, the feedback is negative and if it is in phase the feedback is positive. One problem for amplifier designers who use negative feedback is that some of the components of the circuit will introduce phase shift in the feedback path. If there is a frequency (usually a high frequency) where the phase shift reaches 180°, then the designer must ensure that the amplifier gain at that frequency is very low (usually by low-pass filtering). If the loop gain (the product of the amplifier gain and the extent of the positive feedback) at any frequency is greater than one, then the amplifier will oscillate at that frequency (Barkhausen stability criterion). Such oscillations are sometimes called parasitic oscillations. An amplifier that is stable in one set of conditions can break into parasitic oscillation in another. This may be due to changes in temperature, supply voltage, adjustment of front-panel controls, or even the proximity of a person or other conductive item.\n\nAmplifiers may oscillate gently in ways that are hard to detect without an oscilloscope, or the oscillations may be so extensive that only a very distorted or no required signal at all gets through, or that damage occurs. Low frequency parasitic oscillations have been called 'motorboating' due to the similarity to the sound of a low-revving exhaust note.\n\nMany common digital electronic circuits employ positive feedback. While normal simple boolean logic gates usually rely simply on gain to push digital signal voltages away from intermediate values to the values that are meant to represent boolean '0' and '1', but many more complex gates use feedback. When an input voltage is expected to vary in an analogue way, but sharp thresholds are required for later digital processing, the Schmitt trigger circuit uses positive feedback to ensure that if the input voltage creeps gently above the threshold, the output is forced smartly and rapidly from one logic state to the other. One of the corollaries of the Schmitt trigger's use of positive feedback is that, should the input voltage move gently down again past the same threshold, the positive feedback will hold the output in the same state with no change. This effect is called hysteresis: the input voltage has to drop past a different, lower threshold to 'un-latch' the output and reset it to its original digital value. By reducing the extent of the positive feedback, the hysteresis-width can be reduced, but it can not entirely be eradicated. The Schmitt trigger is, to some extent, a latching circuit.\n\nAn electronic flip-flop, or \"latch\", or \"bistable multivibrator\", is a circuit that due to high positive feedback is not stable in a balanced or intermediate state. Such a bistable circuit is the basis of one bit of electronic memory. The flip-flop uses a pair of amplifiers, transistors, or logic gates connected to each other so that positive feedback maintains the state of the circuit in one of two unbalanced stable states after the input signal has been removed, until a suitable alternative signal is applied to change the state. Computer random access memory (RAM) can be made in this way, with one latching circuit for each bit of memory.\n\nThermal runaway occurs in electronic systems because some aspect of a circuit is allowed to pass more current when it gets hotter, then the hotter it gets, the more current it passes, which heats it some more and so it passes yet more current. The effects are usually catastrophic for the device in question. If devices have to be used near to their maximum power-handling capacity, and thermal runaway is possible or likely under certain conditions, improvements can usually be achieved by careful design.\nAudio and video systems can demonstrate positive feedback. If a microphone picks up the amplified sound output of loudspeakers in the same circuit, then howling and screeching sounds of audio feedback (at up to the maximum power capacity of the amplifier) will be heard, as random noise is re-amplified by positive feedback and filtered by the characteristics of the audio system and the room.\n\nAudio feedback (also known as acoustic feedback, simply as feedback, or the Larsen effect) is a special kind of positive feedback which occurs when a sound loop exists between an audio input (for example, a microphone or guitar pickup) and an audio output (for example, a loudly-amplified loudspeaker). In this example, a signal received by the microphone is amplified and passed out of the loudspeaker. The sound from the loudspeaker can then be received by the microphone again, amplified further, and then passed out through the loudspeaker again. The frequency of the resulting sound is determined by resonance frequencies in the microphone, amplifier, and loudspeaker, the acoustics of the room, the directional pick-up and emission patterns of the microphone and loudspeaker, and the distance between them. For small PA systems the sound is readily recognized as a loud squeal or screech.\n\nFeedback is almost always considered undesirable when it occurs with a singer's or public speaker's microphone at an event using a sound reinforcement system or PA system. Audio engineers use various electronic devices, such as equalizers and, since the 1990s, automatic feedback detection devices to prevent these unwanted squeals or screeching sounds, which detract from the audience's enjoyment of the event. On the other hand, since the 1960s, electric guitar players in rock music bands using loud guitar amplifiers and distortion effects have intentionally created guitar feedback to create a desirable musical effect. \"I Feel Fine\" by the Beatles marks one of the earliest examples of the use of feedback as a recording effect in popular music. It starts with a single, percussive feedback note produced by plucking the A string on Lennon's guitar. Artists such as the Kinks and the Who had already used feedback live, but Lennon remained proud of the fact that the Beatles were perhaps the first group to deliberately put it on vinyl. In one of his last interviews, he said, \"I defy anybody to find a record—unless it's some old blues record in 1922—that uses feedback that way.\"\n\nThe principles of audio feedback were first discovered by Danish scientist Søren Absalon Larsen. Microphones are not the only transducers subject to this effect. Record deck pickup cartridges can do the same, usually in the low frequency range below about 100 Hz, manifesting as a low rumble. Jimi Hendrix was an innovator in the intentional use of guitar feedback in his guitar solos to create unique sound effects. He helped develop the controlled and musical use of audio feedback in electric guitar playing, and later Brian May was a famous proponent of the technique.\n\nSimilarly, if a video camera is pointed at a monitor screen that is displaying the camera's own signal, then repeating patterns can be formed on the screen by positive feedback. This video feedback effect was used in the opening sequences to the first ten series of the television program \"Doctor Who\".\n\nIn electrical switches, including bimetallic strip based thermostats, the switch usually has hysteresis in the switching action. In these cases hysteresis is mechanically achieved via positive feedback within a tipping point mechanism. The positive feedback action minimises the length of time arcing occurs for during the switching and also holds the contacts in an open or closed state.\n\nA number of examples of positive feedback systems may be found in physiology.\n\nIn most cases, such feedback loops culminate in counter-signals being released that suppress or break the loop. Childbirth contractions stop when the baby is out of the mother's body. Chemicals break down the blood clot. Lactation stops when the baby no longer nurses.\n\nPositive feedback is a well studied phenomenon in gene regulation, where it is most often associated with bistability. Positive feedback occurs when a gene activates itself directly or indirectly via a double negative feedback loop. Genetic engineers have constructed and tested simple positive feedback networks in bacteria to demonstrate the concept of bistability. A classic example of positive feedback is the lac operon in \"E. coli\". Positive feedback plays an integral role in cellular differentiation, development, and cancer progression, and therefore, positive feedback in gene regulation can have significant physiological consequences. Random motions in molecular dynamics coupled with positive feedback can trigger interesting effects, such as create population of phenotypically different cells from the same parent cell. This happens because noise can become amplified by positive feedback. Positive feedback can also occur in other forms of cell signaling, such as enzyme kinetics or metabolic pathways.\n\nPositive feedback loops have been used to describe aspects of the dynamics of change in biological evolution. For example, beginning at the macro level, Alfred J. Lotka (1945) argued that the evolution of the species was most essentially a matter of selection that fed back energy flows to capture more and more energy for use by living systems. At the human level, Richard D. Alexander (1989) proposed that social competition between and within human groups fed back to the selection of intelligence thus constantly producing more and more refined human intelligence. Crespi (2004) discussed several other examples of positive feedback loops in evolution. The analogy of Evolutionary arms races provide further examples of positive feedback in biological systems.\nIt has been shown that changes in biodiversity through the Phanerozoic correlate much better with hyperbolic model (widely used in demography and macrosociology) than with exponential and logistic models (traditionally used in population biology and extensively applied to fossil biodiversity as well). The latter models imply that changes in diversity are guided by a first-order positive feedback (more ancestors, more descendants) and/or a negative feedback arising from resource limitation. Hyperbolic model implies a second-order positive feedback. The hyperbolic pattern of the world population growth has been demonstrated (see below) to arise from a second-order positive feedback between the population size and the rate of technological growth. The hyperbolic character of biodiversity growth can be similarly accounted for by a positive feedback between the diversity and community structure complexity. It has been suggested that the similarity between the curves of biodiversity and human population probably comes from the fact that both are derived from the interference of the hyperbolic trend (produced by the positive feedback) with cyclical and stochastic dynamics.\n\nA cytokine storm, or hypercytokinemia is a potentially fatal immune reaction consisting of a positive feedback loop between cytokines and immune cells, with highly elevated levels of various cytokines. In normal immune function, positive feedback loops can be utilized to enhance the action of B lymphocytes. When a B cell binds its antibodies to an antigen and becomes activated, it begins releasing antibodies and secreting a complement protein called C3. Both C3 and a B cell's antibodies can bind to a pathogen, and when a B cell has its antibodies bind to a pathogen with C3, it speeds up that B cell's secretion of more antibodies and more C3, thus creating a positive feedback loop.\n\nApoptosis is a caspase-mediated process of cellular death, whose aim is the removal of long-lived or damaged cells. A failure of this process has been implicated in prominent conditions such as cancer or Parkinson's disease. The very core of the apoptotic process is the auto-activation of caspases, which may be modeled via a positive-feedback loop. This positive feedback exerts an auto-activation of the effector caspase by means of intermediate caspases. When isolated from the rest of apoptotic pathway, this positive-feedback presents only one stable steady state, regardless of the number of intermediate activation steps of the effector caspase. When this core process is complemented with inhibitors and enhancers of caspases effects, this process presents bistability, thereby modeling the alive and dying states of a cell.\n\nWinner (1996) described gifted children as driven by positive feedback loops involving setting their own learning course, this feeding back satisfaction, thus further setting their learning goals to higher levels and so on. Winner termed this positive feedback loop as a \"rage to master.\" Vandervert (2009a, 2009b) proposed that the child prodigy can be explained in terms of a positive feedback loop between the output of thinking/performing in working memory, which then is fed to the cerebellum where it is streamlined, and then fed back to working memory thus steadily increasing the quantitative and qualitative output of working memory. Vandervert also argued that this working memory/cerebellar positive feedback loop was responsible for language evolution in working memory.\n\nProduct recommendations and information about past purchases have been shown to influence consumers choices significantly whether it is for music, movie, book, technological, and other type of products. Social influence often induces a rich-get-richer phenomenon (Matthew effect) where popular products tend to become even more popular.\n\nAccording to the theory of reflexivity advanced by George Soros, price changes are driven by a positive feedback process whereby investors' expectations are influenced by price movements so their behaviour acts to reinforce movement in that direction until it becomes unsustainable, whereupon the feedback drives prices in the opposite direction.\n\nSystemic risk is the risk that an amplification or leverage or positive feedback process presents to a system. This is usually unknown, and under certain conditions this process can amplify exponentially and rapidly lead to destructive or chaotic behavior. A Ponzi scheme is a good example of a positive-feedback system: funds from new investors are used to pay out unusually high returns, which in turn attract more new investors, causing rapid growth toward collapse. W. Brian Arthur has also studied and written on positive feedback in the economy (e.g. W. Brian Arthur, 1990). Hyman Minsky proposed a theory that certain credit expansion practices could make a market economy into \"a deviation amplifying system\" that could suddenly collapse, sometimes called a \"Minsky moment\".\n\nSimple systems that clearly separate the inputs from the outputs are not prone to systemic risk. This risk is more likely as the complexity of the system increases, because it becomes more difficult to see or analyze all the possible combinations of variables in the system even under careful stress testing conditions. The more efficient a complex system is, the more likely it is to be prone to systemic risks, because it takes only a small amount of deviation to disrupt the system. Therefore, well-designed complex systems generally have built-in features to avoid this condition, such as a small amount of friction, or resistance, or inertia, or time delay to decouple the outputs from the inputs within the system. These factors amount to an inefficiency, but they are necessary to avoid instabilities.\n\nThe 2010 Flash Crash incident was blamed on the practice of high-frequency trading (HFT), although whether HFT really increases systemic risk remains controversial.\n\nAgriculture and human population can be considered to be in a positive feedback mode, which means that one drives the other with increasing intensity. It is suggested that this positive feedback system will end sometime with a catastrophe, as modern agriculture is using up all of the easily available phosphate and is resorting to highly efficient monocultures which are more susceptible to systemic risk.\n\nTechnological innovation and human population can be similarly considered, and this has been offered as an explanation for the apparent hyperbolic growth of the human population in the past, instead of a simpler exponential growth.\nIt is proposed that the growth rate is accelerating because of second-order positive feedback between population and technology. Technological growth increases the carrying capacity of land for people, which leads to a growing population, and this in turn drives further technological growth.\n\nGunnar Myrdal described a vicious circle of increasing inequalities, and poverty, which is known as \"circular cumulative causation\".\n\nDrought intensifies through positive feedback. A lack of rain decreases soil moisture, which kills plants and/or causes them to release less water through transpiration. Both factors limit evapotranspiration, the process by which water vapor is added to the atmosphere from the surface, and add dry dust to the atmosphere, which absorbs water. Less water vapor means both low dew point temperatures and more efficient daytime heating, decreasing the chances of humidity in the atmosphere leading to cloud formation. Lastly, without clouds, there cannot be rain, and the loop is complete.\n\nClimate \"forcings\" may push a climate system in the direction of warming or cooling, for example, increased atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases cause warming at the surface. Forcings are external to the climate system and feedbacks are internal processes of the system. Some feedback mechanisms act in relative isolation to the rest of the climate system while others are tightly coupled. Forcings, feedbacks and the dynamics of the climate system determine how much and how fast the climate changes. The main positive feedback in global warming is the tendency of warming to increase the amount of water vapor in the atmosphere, which in turn leads to further warming. The main negative feedback comes from the Stefan–Boltzmann law, the amount of heat radiated from the Earth into space is proportional to the fourth power of the temperature of Earth's surface and atmosphere.\n\nOther examples of positive feedback subsystems in climatology include:\n\nThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report states that \"Anthropogenic warming could lead to some effects that are abrupt or irreversible, depending upon the rate and magnitude of the climate change.\"\n\nA self-fulfilling prophecy is a social positive feedback loop between beliefs and behavior: if enough people believe that something is true, their behavior can make it true, and observations of their behavior may in turn increase belief. A classic example is a bank run.\n\nAnother sociological example of positive feedback is the network effect. When more people are encouraged to join a network this increases the reach of the network therefore the network expands ever more quickly. A viral video is an example of the network effect in which links to a popular video are shared and redistributed, ensuring that more people see the video and then re-publish the links. This is the basis for many social phenomena, including Ponzi schemes and chain letters. In many cases population size is the limiting factor to the feedback effect.\n\nIf a chemical reaction causes the release of heat, and the reaction itself happens faster at higher temperatures, then there is a high likelihood of positive feedback. If the heat produced is not removed from the reactants fast enough, thermal runaway can occur and very quickly lead to a chemical explosion.\n\nMany wildlife are hunted for their parts which can be quite valuable. The closer to extinction that targeted species become, the higher the price there is on their parts. This is an example of positive feedback.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44185600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44185600", "title": "Posthumanist art", "text": "Posthumanist art\n\nPosthumanist art refers to art that can only be created in some part through the aid of digital technology. Posthumanist art can be either human-conceived, or machine-produced in whole or in part. The extent to which the human element is involved in the creation, whether by direct manipulation of the technology, or by creation of the algorithm through which the art is created, can vary.\n"}
{"id": "20909913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20909913", "title": "Princess seams", "text": "Princess seams\n\nPrincess seams are long rounded seams sewn into women's blouses or shirts to add shaping or a tailored fit to closely follow a woman's shape. They are sewn into the front and/or back of a shirt, and extend from the waist up to the arms. Princess seams are distinct from darts in that they form a continuous line and are a full seam. Darts, on the other hand, are folds sewn into the clothing to shape the resultant garment. \n\nThe princess seam style of dress needs no waistline at all, since it does its shaping without darts, by joining edges of different curvature. The resulting \"princess seams\" typically runs from the shoulder (or under the arm) curving gently over the bust point and down to the lower hem. This creates a long, slimming look, often seen in dresses with an \"A-line\" silhouette.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1448027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1448027", "title": "Proto-Semitic language", "text": "Proto-Semitic language\n\nProto-Semitic is a hypothetical reconstructed language ancestral to the historical Semitic languages. A 2009 study proposes that it was spoken from about 3750 BCE in South West Asia during the Early Bronze Age. There is no consensus regarding the location of the Proto-Semitic urheimat; scholars hypothesize that it may have originated in the Arabian Peninsula, the Levant, the Sahara, or the Horn of Africa.\n\nThe Semitic language family is considered to be part of the broader macro-family of Afroasiatic languages.\n\nThe earliest attestations of a Semitic language are in Akkadian, dating to around the 23rd century BC (see Sargon of Akkad) and the Eblaite language, but earlier evidence of Akkadian comes from personal names in Sumerian texts around 28th century BC. Researchers in Egypt also claim to have discovered Canaanite snake spells: \"The passages date from between 2400 to 3000 BC and appear to be written in Proto-Canaanite, a direct ancestor of Biblical Hebrew.\"\n\nSince all modern Semitic languages can be traced back to a common ancestor, Semiticists have placed importance upon locating the urheimat of the Proto-Semitic language. The \"Urheimat\" of the Proto-Semitic language may be considered within the context of the larger Afro-Asiatic family to which it belongs.\n\nThe previously popular hypothesis of an Arabian urheimat has been largely abandoned, since the region could not have supported massive waves of emigration before the domestication of camels in the second millennium BC.\n\nThere is also evidence that Mesopotamia (and adjoining areas of modern Syria) were originally inhabited by a non-Semitic population.\n\nA Bayesian analysis performed in 2009 suggests an origin for all known Semitic languages in the Levant around 3750 BCE, with a later single introduction from South Arabia into the Horn of Africa around 800 BCE. This statistical analysis could not, however, estimate when or where the ancestor of all Semitic languages diverged from Afroasiatic. It thus neither contradicts nor confirms the hypothesis that the divergence of ancestral Semitic from Afroasiatic occurred in Africa.\n\nChristopher Ehret has hypothesized that genetic analyses (specifically those of Y chromosome phylogeography and TaqI 49a,f haplotypes) shows populations of proto-Semitic speakers may have moved from the Horn of Africa or southeastern Sahara northwards to the Nile Valley, northwest Africa, the Levant, and Aegean.\n\nSome geneticists and archaeologists have argued for a back-migration of proto-Afroasiatic speakers from Western Asia to Africa as early as the 10th millennium BC. They suggest the Natufian culture might have spoken a proto-Afroasiatic language just prior to its disintegration into sub-languages. The hypothesis is supported by the Afroasiatic terms for early livestock and crops in both Anatolia and Iran.\n\nEdward Lipiński believes that support for an African origin is provided by what he describes as a possible relationship between a Pre-Semitic Afroasiatic language and the Niger–Congo languages, whose urheimat probably lies in Nigeria–Cameroon. In support of this hypothesis, Lipiński points out that Proto-Semitic:\n\nA Neolithic culture in the Sahara possibly related to Proto-Semitic collapsed due to desertification and climate change around 3500 BC, according to Lipiński – a fact attested by evidence such as rock art. This may have forced Proto-Semitic speakers to emigrate en masse through the Nile Delta to Western Asia. They were probably responsible for the collapse of the Ghassulian culture in Palestine around 3300 BC. Another indication of the arrival of the proto-Semitic culture is the appearance of tumuli in 4th and 3rd millennium BC Palestine, which were typical characteristic of Neolithic Maghreb, especially in Algeria. It is possible that at this point, the ancestors of the speakers of Elamite moved towards Iran, although the inclusion of Elamite in Afroasiatic is only contemplated by a tiny minority. The earliest wave of Semitic speakers entered the Fertile Crescent via Palestine and Syria and eventually founded the Akkadian Empire. Their relatives, the Amorites, followed them and settled Syria before 2500 BC. The collapse of the Bronze Age in Palestine led the southern Semites southwards, where they reached the highlands of Yemen after 20th century BC. Those crossed back to the Horn of Africa between 1500–500 BC.\n\nThe reconstruction of Proto-Semitic (PS) was originally based primarily on Arabic, whose phonology and morphology (particularly in Classical Arabic) is extremely conservative, and which preserves as contrastive 28 out of the evident 29 consonantal phonemes. Thus, the phonemic inventory of reconstructed Proto-Semitic is very similar to that of Arabic, with only one phoneme fewer in Arabic than in reconstructed Proto-Semitic. As such, Proto-Semitic is generally reconstructed as having the following phonemes (as usually transcribed in Semitology):\n\nThe fricatives *s *z *ṣ *ś *ṣ́ *ṱ may also be interpreted as affricates (), as is discussed below.\n\nThe Proto-Semitic consonant system is based on triads of related voiceless, voiced and \"emphatic\" consonants. Five such triads are reconstructed in Proto-Semitic:\n\nThe probable phonetic realization of most consonants is straightforward and is indicated in the table with the IPA. Two subsets of consonants, however, deserve further comment.\n\nThe sounds notated here as \"emphatic\" occur in nearly all Semitic languages as well as in most other Afroasiatic languages, and they are generally reconstructed as glottalized in Proto-Semitic. Thus, *ṭ, for example, represents . (See below for the fricatives/affricates).\n\nIn modern Semitic languages, emphatics are variously realized as pharyngealized (Arabic, Aramaic, Tiberian Hebrew (such as ), glottalized (Ethiopian Semitic languages, Modern South Arabian languages such as ), or as unaspirated (Turoyo of Tur-Abdin such as ); Ashkenazi Hebrew and Maltese are exceptions and emphatics merge into plain consonants in various ways under the influence of Indo-European languages (Italian/Sicilian for Maltese, German/Yiddish for Hebrew).\n\nAn emphatic labial *ṗ occurs in some Semitic languages, but it is unclear whether it was a phoneme in Proto-Semitic.\n\nThe reconstruction of Proto-Semitic has nine fricative sounds that are reflected usually as sibilants in later languages, but whether all were already sibilants in Proto-Semitic is debated:\n\nThe precise sound of the Proto-Semitic fricatives, notably of , , and , remains a perplexing problem, and there are various systems of notation to describe them. The notation given here is traditional and is based on their pronunciation in Hebrew, which has traditionally been extrapolated to Proto-Semitic. The notation , , is found primarily in the literature on Old South Arabian, but more recently, it has been used by some authors to discus Proto-Semitic to express a noncommittal view of the pronunciation of the sounds. However, the older transcription remains predominant in most literature, often even among scholars who either disagree with the traditional interpretation or remain noncommittal.\n\nThe traditional view, as expressed in the conventional transcription and still maintained by some of the authors in the field is that was a Voiceless postalveolar fricative (), was a voiceless alveolar sibilant () and was a voiceless alveolar lateral fricative (). Accordingly, is seen as an emphatic version of () as a voiced version of it () and as an emphatic version of (). The reconstruction of as lateral fricatives (or affricates) is certain although few modern languages preserve the sounds. The pronunciation of as is still maintained in the Modern South Arabian languages (such as Mehri), and evidence of a former lateral pronunciation is evident in a number of other languages. For example, Biblical Hebrew \"baśam\" was borrowed into Ancient Greek as \"balsamon\" (hence English \"balsam\"), and the 8th-century Arab grammarian Sībawayh explicitly described the Arabic descendant of , now pronounced in the standard pronunciation or in Bedouin-influenced dialects, as a pharyngealized voiced lateral fricative . (Compare Spanish \"alcalde\", from Andalusian Arabic \"al-qāḍī\" \"judge\".)\n\nThe primary disagreements concern whether the sounds were actually fricatives in Proto-Semitic or whether some were affricates and whether the sound designated was pronounced (or similar) in Proto-Semitic, as the traditional view posits, or had the value of . The issue of the nature of the \"emphatic\" consonants, discussed above, is partly related (but partly orthogonal) to the issues here as well.\n\nWith respect to the traditional view, there are two dimensions of \"minimal\" and \"maximal\" modifications made:\n\n\nAffricates in Proto-Semitic were proposed early on but met little acceptance until the work of Alice Faber (1981) who challenged the older approach. The Semitic languages that have survived often have fricatives for these consonants. However, Ethiopic languages and Modern Hebrew, in many reading traditions, have an affricate for .\n\nThe evidence for the various affricate interpretations of the sibilants is direct evidence from transcriptions and structural evidence. However, the evidence for the \"maximal extension\" positions that extend affricate interpretations to non-sibilant \"fricatives\" is largely structural because of both the relative rarity of the interdentals and lateral obstruents among the attested Semitic language and the even-greater rarity of such sounds among the various languages in which Semitic words were transcribed. As a result, even when the sounds were transcribed, the resulting transcriptions may be difficult to interpret clearly.\n\nThe narrowest affricate view (only was an affricate ) is the most accepted one. The affricate pronunciation is directly attested in the modern Ethiopic languages and Modern Hebrew, as mentioned above, but also in ancient transcriptions of numerous Semitic languages in various other languages:\nThe \"maximal affricate\" view, applied only to sibilants, also has transcriptional evidence. According to Kogan, the affricate interpretation of Akkadian is generally accepted.\n\nThere is also a good deal of internal evidence in early Akkadian for affricate realizations of . Examples are that underlying |||| were realized as \"ss\", which is more natural if the law was phonetically |||| → , and that shift to before , which is more naturally interpreted as deaffrication.\n\nEvidence for as also exists but is somewhat less clear. It has been suggested that it is cross-linguistically rare for languages with a single sibilant fricative to have as the sound and that is more likely. Similarly, the use of Phoenician 𐤔 , as the source of Greek Σ \"s\", seems easiest to explain if the phoneme had the sound of at the time. The occurrence of for in a number of separate modern Semitic languages (such as Neo-Aramaic, Modern South Arabian, most Biblical Hebrew reading traditions) and Old Babylonian Akkadian is then suggested to result from a push-type chain shift, and the change from to \"pushes\" out of the way to in the languages in question, and a merger of the two to occurs in various other languages such as Arabic and Ethiopian Semitic.\n\nOn the other hand, it has been suggested that the initial merged \"s\" in Arabic was actually a \"hissing-hushing sibilant\", presumably something like (or a \"retracted sibilant\"), which did not become until later. That would suggest a value closer to (or a \"retracted sibilant\") or for Proto-Semitic since and would almost certainly merge directly to [s]. Furthermore, there is various evidence to suggest that the sound for existed while was still . Examples are the Southern Old Babylonian form of Akkadian, which evidently had along with as well as Egyptian transcriptions of early Canaanite words in which are rendered as \"\". (\"ṯ\" is an affricate and the consensus interpretation of \"š\" is , as in Modern Coptic.)\n\nDiem (1974) suggested that the Canaanite sound change of → would be more natural if *š was than if it was . However, Kogan argues that, because was at the time, the change from to is the most likely merger, regardless of the exact pronunciation of while the shift was underway.\n\nEvidence for the affricate nature of the non-sibilants is based mostly on internal considerations. Ejective fricatives are quite rare cross-linguistically, and when a language has such sounds, it nearly always has so if was actually affricate , it would be extremely unusual if was fricative rather than affricate . According to Rodinson (1981) and Weninger (1998), the Greek placename \"Mátlia\", with \"tl\" used to render Ge'ez \"ḍ\" (Proto-Semitic \"*ṣ́\"), is \"clear proof\" that this sound was affricated in Ge'ez and quite possibly in Proto-Semitic as well.\n\nThe evidence for the most maximal interpretation, with all the interdentals and lateral obstruents being affricates, appears to be mostly structural: the system would be more symmetric if reconstructed that way.\n\nThe shift of to \"h\" occurred in most Semitic languages (other than Akkadian, Minaian, Qatabanian) in grammatical and pronominal morphemes, and it is unclear whether reduction of began in a daughter proto-language or in Proto-Semitic itself. Some thus suggest that weakened may have been a separate phoneme in Proto-Semitic.\n\nSee Semitic languages#Phonology for a fuller discussion of the outcomes of the Proto-Semitic sounds in the various daughter languages.\n\n\"See table at Proto-Afroasiatic language#Consonant correspondences.\"\n\nSee appendix in Wiktionary\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3036498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3036498", "title": "Safety reflector", "text": "Safety reflector\n\nA reflector is a retroreflector intended for pedestrians, runners, motorized and non-motorized vehicles. A safety reflector is similar to reflective stripes that can be found on safety vests and clothing worn by road workers and rescue workers. They are sometimes erroneously called luminous badges or luminous tags, but this is incorrect as they do not themselves produce light, but only reflect it.\n\nA safety reflector aids visibility of a person or vehicle visible to on the road, as it reflects light from headlights of vehicles. Safety reflectors are especially useful where there are no streetlights.\n\nUnlike reflective stripes that are permanently fixed to clothing, the safety reflector is a stand-alone device that can be attached to any article of clothing as needed, often using a safety pin and some string. For vehicles, the reflector is usually a fixed part. In bicycles, reflectors are usually on wheels, pedals, under the seat, on the back of the luggage rack, and in front of the front fork. In motorcycles, automobiles, and other vehicles, reflectors are built into the front and rear ends (and sides) next to the headlights and brake lights.\n\nWithin the European Union, safety reflectors for pedestrians must be certified to comply with the CE EN 13356 safety standard. This standard is specifically for \"loose, reflective accessories for personal use\". There are other standards for other types of reflectors such as safety vests and reflectors on bicycles.\n\nIn Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, pedestrians are required by law to wear safety reflectors when walking during dark conditions.\n\nThe reflector is a Finnish creation, invented by a farmer Mr. Arvi Lehti from Pertteli, a small township in Western Finland. The inventor did not consider pedestrian safety when creating the first reflectors: he simply wished to protect his horse carts and carriages. Reflectors were introduced to Finns in 1960. Nowadays one can find reflectors of all possible shapes and colours, as design and fashion industries have turned their faces towards this diminutive gadget. Special 'clip-on' reflectors for bicycles and other human-powered vehicles are also common.\nA bicycle reflector or prism reflector is a common safety device found on the rear, front and wheels of bicycles. It uses the principle of retroreflection to alert another road user of the bicycle's presence on the road.\n\nThe reflector is usually manufactured in the form of a moulded tile of transparent plastic. The outside surface is smooth, allowing light, such as from a car's headlights, to enter. The rear surface of the tile takes the form of an array of angled micro-prisms or spherical beads.\n\nThe light striking the rear, inside surface of the prisms or beads, does so at an angle greater than the critical angle thus it undergoes total internal reflection. Due to the orientation of the other inside surfaces, any light internally reflecting is directed back out the front of the reflector in the direction it came from. This alerts the person close to the light source, e.g. the driver of the vehicle, to the presence of the cyclist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22577101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22577101", "title": "Saint Lucian cuisine", "text": "Saint Lucian cuisine\n\nSaint Lucian cuisine is a combination of French, East Indian and British dishes. Before colonization, the Caribs and the Arawaks occupied the island, surviving on its various natural fruits and vegetables like mangoes, oranges, tangerines, avocados, and breadfruits. St Lucia is known for its national dish consisting of green bananas and salt fish locally known as green figs and saltfish; breadfruit and salt fish is also an alternative favourite among the locals. Other speciality dishes include a dish known as \"bouyon\", which is a thick red beans one pot soup meal made of meat, ground provisions (ground tuber foods) and vegetables. Other popular local dishes include callaloo, Accra, green fig salad, cocoa tea (a traditional breakfast spiced hot drink) and bakes(very similar to Johhny cakes) among others. The island's British and Indian influences are seen in the variety of spices used in its cuisine, which include garlic, cinnamon, nutmeg, cocoa, parsley, cloves, and allspice.A wide range of local fruits like golden apples, mangoes, starfruit, tamarind are used to make juices, although lime juice (lime squash) seems a more popular choice to be enjoyed in conjunction with the local delicacies.\n"}
{"id": "25853874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25853874", "title": "Sangita Makarandha", "text": "Sangita Makarandha\n\nSangita Makaranda is an ancient work on classical music written by Narada. This work is a rare collection of definitions, descriptions and comments on all the essentials music by other ancient reputed authors from Bharata Muni to Sharangdeva. Its main feature is the treatiment of Ragas; categorizing them as male, female and neuter.\n\nThe treatise circa 1100 CE is the earliest text where rules similar to the current Hindustani classical music can be found. Narada actually names and classifies the system in its earlier form before the advent of changes as a result of Persian influences.\n\nIt also hints on the uniqueness of the raga-nomenclaturing. On close study of it, one learns of three distinct stages on the nomenclaturing of the Indian ragas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8405089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8405089", "title": "Serafim Ponte Grande", "text": "Serafim Ponte Grande\n\nSerafim Ponte Grande is a novel written by the Brazilian writer Oswald de Andrade. It was first published in 1933.\n"}
{"id": "30674194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30674194", "title": "State Anthem of Karachay-Cherkessia", "text": "State Anthem of Karachay-Cherkessia\n\nThe National Anthem of Karachay-Cherkessia (, \"Gimn Karachayevo-Cherkesii\"; Karachay-Balkar: Къарачай-Черкес Республиканы Гимни; Kabardian: Къэрэщей-Шэрджэс Республикэм и Къэрал Орэдыр) is the national anthem of Karachay-Cherkessia. The lyrics were written by Yusuf Sozarukov (1952–2008) and the music was composed by Aslan Daurov (1940–1999). The anthem was established on 9 April 1998 by Law of the KChR number 410-XXII \"On the State Anthem of the Republic of Karachay-Cherkessia\". The title of the song is \"Древней Родиной горжусь я!\", meaning \"Ancient Homeland I am proud of!\".\n\n"}
{"id": "431845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431845", "title": "Stippling", "text": "Stippling\n\nStippling is the creation of a pattern simulating varying degrees of solidity or shading by using small dots. Such a pattern may occur in nature and these effects are frequently emulated by artists.\n\nIn a drawing or painting, the dots are made of pigment of a single colour, applied with a pen or brush; the denser the dots, the darker the apparent shade—or lighter, if the pigment is lighter than the surface. This is similar to—but distinct from—pointillism, which uses dots of different colours to simulate blended colours.\n\nIn printmaking, dots may be carved out of a surface to which ink will be applied, to produce either a greater or lesser density of ink depending on the printing technique. In engraving, the technique was invented by Giulio Campagnola in about 1510. Stippling may also be used in engraving or sculpting an object even when there is no ink or paint involved, either to change the texture of the object, or to produce the appearance of light or dark shading depending on the reflective properties of the surface: for instance, stipple engraving on glass produces areas that appear brighter than the surrounding glass.\n\nThe technique became popular as a means of producing shaded line art illustrations for publication, because drawings created this way could be reproduced in simple black ink. The other common method is hatching, which uses lines instead of dots. Stippling has traditionally been favoured over hatching in biological and medical illustration, since it is less likely than hatching to interfere visually with the structures being illustrated (the lines used in hatching can be mistaken for actual contours), and also since it allows the artist to vary the density of shading more subtly to depict curved or irregular surfaces.\n\nImages produced by halftoning or dithering and computer printers operate on similar principles (varying the size and/or spacing of dots on paper), but do so via photographic or digital processes rather than manually. These newer techniques have made it possible to convert continuous-tone images into patterns suitable for printing, but artists may still choose stippling for its simplicity and handmade appearance. \"The Wall Street Journal\" still features stippled and hatched portraits known as hedcuts (a style brought to the WSJ by Kevin Sprouls in 1987) in its pages, a holdover from its earlier avoidance of photographs.\n\nIn description of flora species, a stippling is a kind of pattern, especially in the case of flowering plants, produced in nature that occur on flower petals and sepals. These are similar to the dot patterns in artworks that produce an often intricate pattern. An example can be seen on the base of the petal insides of \"Calochortus luteus\", a lily endemic to California.\n\nThe term stipple can also apply to a random pattern of small depressions applied to a surface to increase the friction and make the surface easier to grip. This process is similar to knurling or checkering, but is often used on complex curved surfaces, such as anatomical grips, where a regular pattern would not fit. Stippling can be cast into plastic objects, or applied with a hammer and punch to wood or metal objects.\n\nA further use of stipple indicates the damage caused by spider mites which make tiny white spots on plant leaves which can coalesce until the entire leaf appears silvery.\n\nIn quilt making, the term refers to background quilting in heirloom quilts and all-over stitching in others. It is made freehand or with free-motion machine quilting by densely stitching through all layers in a relatively close repetitive design.\n\nIn interior decoration, the tips of the bristles of a stippling brush are dabbed onto a freshly painted wall or surface to create a subtle design in the paint. The paint hit by the points is displaced and leaves only a thin dot of paint through which a lighter layer of colour underneath will show through.\n\nIn digital photography, stippling refers to image noise similar to film grain.\n\nIn forensic science, stippling refers to a pattern of gunshot residue burned into the skin that results from close proximity to a discharged firearm. \n"}
{"id": "25181952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25181952", "title": "Swedish Cultural Center", "text": "Swedish Cultural Center\n\nThe Swedish Cultural Center is a meeting spot for Scandinavians in Seattle, Washington. It was founded in 1892, initially as the \"Swedish Club\".\n\nThe club is located at 1920 Dexter Avenue North in a building designed by architects Einar V. Anderson, Arden Croco Steinhart, and Robert Dennis Theriault Sr., and built 1959-1961. Prior to that they were located in a 1902 building on Eight Avenue by contractors Otto Roseleaf, August S. Peterson, and Otto Rudolf Roseleaf.\n\nThe club hosts a number of events for members and non-members. Among their public events are a monthly pancake breakfast and a Friday \"Kafé\"; their Friday evening \"happy hour\" (which actually runs for 5-1/2 hours) is open to \"prospective members\". They also offer Swedish lessons and show Scandinavian films.\n\n"}
{"id": "13788423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13788423", "title": "The Crossing of the Red Land", "text": "The Crossing of the Red Land\n\n\"The Crossing of the Red Land - the saga of Jewish refugees in Brazil\" (orig. title in Portuguese: \"A Travessia da Terra Vermelha – uma saga dos refugiados judeus no Brasil\"), is a 2007 novel by Brazilian author Lucius de Mello.\n\nThis historical novel details the lives of German Jewish refugees in the 1930s and 1940s, who found themselves living in the wilderness of Paraná, in Southern Brazil, while escaping Hitler's regime. \nTo compose this romance, the author interviewed direct descendants of these pioneers, in Brazil and in Germany.\nnova edição:\nhttp://editoranacional.com.br/\n\nvideo sobre o livro:\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7a5dhNEQ4uo\nBeatriz Segall e A \"Lista de Schindler\" do Brasil. \nBook trailer com participação especial da atriz Beatriz Segall.\nUm book trailer sobre o livro que conta a história real das famílias judaicas salvas do horror nazista pela construção de uma ferrovia brasileira. \nBrazilian \"Schindler´s List\".\nReal story of an escape plan that secured dozens of Jewish families to cross into the Brazilian backwoods during the Nazi horror in Germany.\n"}
{"id": "3386771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3386771", "title": "The Star Diaries", "text": "The Star Diaries\n\nDzienniki gwiazdowe is a 1957 collection of short stories by Polish writer Stanisław Lem, expanded in 1971 around the character of space traveller Ijon Tichy. The collection was published in English in two volumes, The Star Diaries (published New York, 1976) and Memoirs of a Space Traveller (published London, 1982).\n\nTranslated by Michael Kandel.\n\nTranslated by Joel Stern and Maria Swiecicka-Ziemianek\nThe 2017 Kindle edition contains the first Enflish translation of the following novel:\n\n\n\nGerman-language adaptations of several voyages taken by Ijon Tichy exist. In 2001 and 2002, two independent short films were made, running about 15 minutes each, directed by Dennis Jacobsen, Randa Chahoud, and Oliver Jahn (Jahn also played the main character Ijon Tichy), with Nora Tschirner starring as the female hologram. Both short films are available as legal downloads from the official site of production company \"Bildwerke Berlin\". In 2006, the same team produced a miniseries called \"\" for German TV, with 6 episodes of 15 minutes each again, which premiered March 2007 on ZDF. A second series of 8 episodes followed in 2011.\n\n\"The Fourteenth Voyage\" was rendered as an animation film in the Soviet Union in 1985. Produced by Azerbaijanfilm in Russian language, this 10-minute film was titled \"From the Diaries of Ijon Tichy. A Voyage to Interopia\" (). Its screenwriter and director is Russian animator .\n\n"}
{"id": "30067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30067", "title": "Tradition", "text": "Tradition\n\nA tradition is a belief or behavior passed down within a group or society with symbolic meaning or special significance with origins in the past. Common examples include holidays or impractical but socially meaningful clothes (like lawyers' wigs or military officers' spurs), but the idea has also been applied to social norms such as greetings. Traditions can persist and evolve for thousands of years—the word \"tradition\" itself derives from the Latin \"tradere\" literally meaning to transmit, to hand over, to give for safekeeping. While it is commonly assumed that traditions have ancient history, many traditions have been invented on purpose, whether that be political or cultural, over short periods of time. Various academic disciplines also use the word in a variety of ways. \n\nThe phrase \"according to tradition\", or \"by tradition\", usually means that whatever information follows is known only by oral tradition, but is not supported (and perhaps may be refuted) by physical documentation, by a physical artifact, or other quality evidence. \"Tradition\" is used to indicate the quality of a piece of information being discussed. For example, \"According to tradition, Homer was born on Chios, but many other locales have historically claimed him as theirs.\" This tradition may never be proven or disproven. In another example, \"King Arthur, by tradition a true British king, has inspired many well loved stories.\" Whether they are documented fact or not does not decrease their value as cultural history and literature. \n\nTraditions are a subject of study in several academic fields, especially in social sciences such as anthropology, archaeology, and biology.\n\nThe concept of tradition, as the notion of holding on to a previous time, is also found in political and philosophical discourse. For example, it is the basis of the political concept of traditionalism, and also strands of many world religions including traditional Catholicism. In artistic contexts, tradition is used to decide the correct display of an art form. For example, in the performance of traditional genres (such as traditional dance), adherence to guidelines dictating how an art form should be composed are given greater importance than the performer's own preferences. A number of factors can exacerbate the loss of tradition, including industrialization, globalization, and the assimilation or marginalization of specific cultural groups. In response to this, tradition-preservation attempts have now been started in many countries around the world, focusing on aspects such as traditional languages. Tradition is usually contrasted with the goal of modernity and should be differentiated from customs, conventions, laws, norms, routines, rules and similar concepts.\n\nThe English word \"tradition\" comes from the Latin \"traditio\", the noun from the verb \"tradere\" (to transmit, to hand over, to give for safekeeping); it was originally used in Roman law to refer to the concept of legal transfers and inheritance. According to Anthony Giddens and others, the modern meaning of tradition evolved during the Enlightenment period, in opposition to modernity and progress.\n\nAs with many other generic terms, there are many definitions of tradition. The concept includes a number of interrelated ideas; the unifying one is that tradition refers to beliefs, objects or customs performed or believed in the past, originating in it, transmitted through time by being taught by one generation to the next, and are performed or believed in the present.\n\nTradition can also refer to beliefs or customs that are Prehistoric, with lost or arcane origins, existing from \"time immemorial\". Originally, traditions were passed orally, without the need for a writing system. Tools to aid this process include poetic devices such as rhyme and alliteration. The stories thus preserved are also referred to as tradition, or as part of an oral tradition. Even such traditions, however, are presumed to have originated (been \"invented\" by humans) at some point. Traditions are often presumed to be ancient, unalterable, and deeply important, though they may sometimes be much less \"natural\" than is presumed. It is presumed that at least two transmissions over three generations are required for a practice, belief or object to be seen as traditional. Some traditions were deliberately invented for one reason or another, often to highlight or enhance the importance of a certain institution. Traditions may also be adapted to suit the needs of the day, and the changes can become accepted as a part of the ancient tradition. Tradition changes slowly, with changes from one generation to the next being seen as significant. Thus, those carrying out the traditions will not be consciously aware of the change, and even if a tradition undergoes major changes over many generations, it will be seen as unchanged.\n\nThere are various origins and fields of tradition; they can refer to:\n\nMany objects, beliefs and customs can be traditional. Rituals of social interaction can be traditional, with phrases and gestures such as saying \"thank you\", sending birth announcements, greeting cards, etc. Tradition can also refer to larger concepts practiced by groups (family traditions at Christmas), organizations (company's picnic) or societies, such as the practice of national and public holidays. Some of the oldest traditions include monotheism (three millennia) and citizenship (two millennia). It can also include material objects, such as buildings, works of art or tools.\n\nTradition is often used as an adjective, in contexts such as traditional music, traditional medicine, traditional values and others. In such constructions tradition refers to specific values and materials particular to the discussed context, passed through generations.\n\nThe term \"invention of tradition\", introduced by E. J. Hobsbawm, refers to situations when a new practice or object is introduced in a manner that implies a connection with the past that is not necessarily present. A tradition may be deliberately created and promulgated for personal, commercial, political, or national self-interest, as was done in colonial Africa; or it may be adopted rapidly based on a single highly publicized event, rather than developing and spreading organically in a population, as in the case of the white wedding dress, which only became popular after Queen Victoria wore a white gown at her wedding to Albert of Saxe-Coburg.\n\nAn example of an invention of tradition is the rebuilding of the Palace of Westminster (location of the British Parliament) in the Gothic style. Similarly, most of the traditions associated with monarchy of the United Kingdom, seen as rooted deep in history, actually date to 19th century. Other examples include the invention of tradition in Africa and other colonial holdings by the occupying forces. Requiring legitimacy, the colonial power would often invent a \"tradition\" which they could use to legitimize their own position. For example, a certain succession to a chiefdom might be recognized by a colonial power as traditional in order to favour their own candidates for the job. Often these inventions were based in some form of tradition, but were exaggerated, distorted, or biased toward a particular interpretation.\n\nInvented traditions are a central component of modern national cultures, providing a commonality of experience and promoting the unified national identity espoused by nationalism. Common examples include public holidays (particularly those unique to a particular nation), the singing of national anthems, and traditional national cuisine (see national dish). Expatriate and immigrant communities may continue to practice the national traditions of their home nation.\n\nIn science, tradition is often used in the literature in order to define the relationship of an author's thoughts to that of his or her field. In 1948, philosopher of science Karl Popper suggested that there should be a \"rational theory of tradition\" applied to science which was fundamentally sociological. For Popper, each scientist who embarks on a certain research trend inherits the tradition of the scientists before them as he or she inherits their studies and any conclusions that superseded it. Unlike myth, which is a means of explaining the natural world through means other than logical criticism, scientific tradition was inherited from Socrates, who proposed critical discussion, according to Popper. For Thomas Kuhn, who presented his thoughts in a paper presented in 1977, a sense of such a critical inheritance of tradition is, historically, what sets apart the best scientists who change their fields is an embracement of tradition.\n\nTraditions are a subject of study in several academic fields in social sciences—chiefly anthropology, archaeology, and biology—with somewhat different meanings in different fields. It is also used in varying contexts in other fields, such as history, psychology and sociology. Social scientists and others have worked to refine the commonsense concept of tradition to make it into a useful concept for scholarly analysis. In the 1970s and 1980s, Edward Shils explored the concept in detail. Since then, a wide variety of social scientists have criticized traditional ideas about tradition; meanwhile, \"tradition\" has come into usage in biology as applied to nonhuman animals.\n\nTradition as a concept variously defined in different disciplines should not be confused with various traditions (perspectives, approaches) in those disciplines.\n\nTradition is one of the key concepts in anthropology; it can be said that anthropology is the study of \"tradition in traditional societies\". There is however no \"theory of tradition\", as for most anthropologists the need to discuss what tradition is seems unnecessary, as defining tradition is both unnecessary (everyone can be expected to know what it is) and unimportant (as small differences in definition would be just technical). There are however dissenting views; scholars such as Pascal Boyer argue that defining tradition and developing theories about it are important to the discipline.\n\nIn archaeology, the term \"tradition\" is a set of cultures or industries which appear to develop on from one another over a period of time. The term is especially common in the study of American archaeology.\n\nBiologists, when examining groups of non-humans, have observed repeated behaviors which are taught within communities from one generation to the next. Tradition is defined in biology as \"a behavioral practice that is relatively enduring (i.e., is performed repeatedly over a period of time), that is shared among two or more members of a group, that depends in part on socially aided learning for its generation in new practitioners\", and has been called a precursor to \"culture\" in the anthropological sense.\n\nBehavioral traditions have been observed in groups of fish, birds, and mammals. Groups of orangutans and chimpanzees, in particular, may display large numbers of behavioral traditions, and in chimpanzees, transfer of traditional behavior from one group to another (not just within a group) has been observed. Such behavioral traditions may have evolutionary significance, allowing adaptation at a faster rate than genetic change.\n\nIn the field of musicology and ethnomusicology tradition refers to the belief systems, repertoire, techniques, style and culture that is passed down through subsequent generations. Tradition in music suggests a historical context with which one can perceive distinguishable patterns. Along with a sense of history, traditions have a fluidity that cause them to evolve and adapt over time.\nWhile both musicology and ethnomusicology are defined by being 'the scholarly study of music' they differ in their methodology and subject of research. 'Tradition, or traditions, can be presented as a context in which to study the work of a specific composer or as a part of a wide-ranging historical perspective.'\n\nThe concept of tradition, in early sociological research (around the turn of the 19th and 20th century), referred to that of the traditional society, as contrasted by the more modern industrial society. This approach was most notably portrayed in Max Weber's concepts of traditional authority and modern rational-legal authority. In more modern works, One hundred years later, sociology sees tradition as a social construct used to contrast past with the present and as a form of rationality used to justify certain course of action.\n\nTraditional society is characterized by lack of distinction between family and business, division of labor influenced primarily by age, gender, and status, high position of custom in the system of values, self-sufficiency, preference to saving and accumulation of capital instead of productive investment, relative autarky. Early theories positing the simple, unilineal evolution of societies from traditional to industrial model are now seen as too simplistic.\n\nIn 1981 Edward Shils in his book \"Tradition\" put forward a definition of tradition that became universally accepted. According to Shils, tradition is anything which is transmitted or handed down from the past to the present.\n\nAnother important sociological aspect of tradition is the one that relates to rationality. It is also related to the works of Max Weber (see theories of rationality), and were popularized and redefined in 1992 by Raymond Boudon in his book \"Action\". In this context tradition refers to the mode of thinking and action justified as \"it has always been that way\". This line of reasoning forms the basis of the logical flaw of the appeal to tradition (or \"argumentum ad antiquitatem\"), which takes the form \"this is right because we've always done it this way.\" In most cases such an appeal can be refuted on the grounds that the \"tradition\" being advocated may no longer be desirable, or, indeed, may never have been despite its previous popularity.\n\nThe idea of tradition is important in philosophy. Twentieth century philosophy is often divided between an 'analytic' tradition, dominant in Anglophone and Scandinavian countries, and a 'continental' tradition, dominant in German and Romance speaking Europe. Increasingly central to continental philosophy is the project of deconstructing what its proponents, following Martin Heidegger, call 'the tradition', which began with Plato and Aristotle. In contrast, some continental philosophers - most notably, Hans-Georg Gadamer - have attempted to rehabilitate the tradition of Aristotelianism. This move has been replicated within analytic philosophy by Alasdair MacIntyre. However, MacIntyre has himself deconstructed the idea of 'the tradition', instead posing Aristotelianism as one philosophical tradition in rivalry with others.\n\nThe concepts of tradition and traditional values are frequently used in political and religious discourse to establish the legitimacy of a particular set of values. In the United States in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, the concept of tradition has been used to argue for the centrality and legitimacy of conservative religious values. Similarly, strands of orthodox theological thought from a number of world religions openly identify themselves as wanting a return to tradition. For example, the term \"traditionalist Catholic\" refers to those, such as Archbishop Lefebvre, who want the worship and practices of the church to be as they were before the Second Vatican Council of 1962–65. Likewise, Sunni Muslims are referred to as \"Ahlus Sunnah wa Al-Jamā‘ah\" (), literally \"people of the tradition [of Muhammad] and the community\", emphasizing their attachment to religious and cultural tradition.\n\nMore generally, tradition has been used as a way of determining the political spectrum, with right-wing parties having a stronger affinity to the ways of the past than left-wing ones. Here, the concept of adherence tradition is embodied by the political philosophy of traditionalist conservatism (or simply \"traditionalism\"), which emphasizes the need for the principles of natural law and transcendent moral order, hierarchy and organic unity, agrarianism, classicism and high culture, and the intersecting spheres of loyalty. Traditionalists would therefore reject the notions of individualism, liberalism, modernity, and social progress, but promote cultural and educational renewal, and revive interest in the church, the family, the state and local community. This view has been criticised for including in its notion of tradition practices which are no longer considered to be desirable, for example, stereotypical views of the place of women in domestic affairs.\n\nIn other societies, especially ones experiencing rapid social change, the idea of what is \"traditional\" may be widely contested, with different groups striving to establish their own values as the legitimate traditional ones. Defining and enacting traditions in some cases can be a means of building unity between subgroups in a diverse society; in other cases, tradition is a means of othering and keeping groups distinct from one another.\n\nIn artistic contexts, in the performance of traditional genres (such as traditional dance), adherence to traditional guidelines is of greater importance than performer's preferences. It is often the unchanging form of certain arts that leads to their perception as traditional. For artistic endeavors, tradition has been used as a contrast to \"creativity\", with traditional and folk art associated with unoriginal imitation or repetition, in contrast to fine art, which is valued for being original and unique. More recent philosophy of art, however, considers interaction with tradition as integral to the development of new artistic expression.\n\nIn the social sciences, \"tradition\" is often contrasted with \"modernity\", particularly in terms of whole societies. This dichotomy is generally associated with a linear model of social change, in which societies progress from being traditional to being modern. Tradition-oriented societies have been characterized as valuing filial piety, harmony and group welfare, stability, and interdependence, while a society exhibiting modernity would value \"individualism (with free will and choice), mobility, and progress.\" Another author discussing tradition in relationship to modernity, Anthony Giddens, sees tradition as something bound to ritual, where ritual guarantees the continuation of tradition. Gusfield and others, though, criticize this dichotomy as oversimplified, arguing that tradition is dynamic, heterogeneous, and coexists successfully with modernity even within individuals.\n\nTradition should be differentiated from \"customs, conventions, laws, norms, routines, rules\" and similar concepts. Whereas tradition is supposed to be invariable, they are seen as more flexible and subject to innovation and change. Whereas justification for tradition is ideological, the justification for other similar concepts is more practical or technical. Over time, customs, routines, conventions, rules and such can evolve into traditions, but that usually requires that they stop having (primarily) a practical purpose. For example, wigs worn by lawyers were at first common and fashionable; spurs worn by military officials were at first practical but now are both impractical and traditional.\n\nIn many countries, concerted attempts are being made to preserve traditions that are at risk of being lost. A number of factors can exacerbate the loss of tradition, including industrialization, globalization, and the assimilation or marginalization of specific cultural groups. Customary celebrations and lifestyles are among the traditions that are sought to be preserved. Likewise, the concept of tradition has been used to defend the preservation and reintroduction of minority languages such as Cornish under the auspices of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. Specifically, the charter holds that these languages \"contribute to the maintenance and development of Europe's cultural wealth and traditions\". The Charter goes on to call for \"the use or adoption... of traditional and correct forms of place-names in regional or minority languages\". Similarly, UNESCO includes both \"oral tradition\" and \"traditional manifestations\" in its definition of a country's cultural properties and heritage. It therefore works to preserve tradition in countries such as Brazil.\n\nIn Japan, certain artworks, structures, craft techniques and performing arts are considered by the Japanese government to be a precious legacy of the Japanese people, and are protected under the Japanese Law for the Protection of Cultural Properties. This law also identifies people skilled at traditional arts as \"National Living Treasures\", and encourages the preservation of their craft.\n\nFor native peoples like the Māori in New Zealand, there is conflict between the fluid identity assumed as part of modern society and the traditional identity with the obligations that accompany it; the loss of language heightens the feeling of isolation and damages the ability to perpetuate tradition.\n\nThe phrase \"traditional cultural expressions\" is used by the World Intellectual Property Organization to refer to \"any form of artistic and literary expression in which traditional culture and knowledge are embodied. They are transmitted from one generation to the next, and include handmade textiles, paintings, stories, legends, ceremonies, music, songs, rhythms and dance.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5569730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569730", "title": "Youth Without Youth (film)", "text": "Youth Without Youth (film)\n\nYouth Without Youth is a 2007 fantasy drama film written and directed by Francis Ford Coppola, based on the novella of the same name by Romanian author Mircea Eliade. The film is a co-production between the United States, Romania, France, Italy and Germany. It was the first film that Coppola had directed in ten years, since 1997's \"The Rainmaker\". It was distributed through Sony Pictures Classics in the United States (where it was released on December 14, 2007) and by Pathé in the UK and France. The music was composed by Grammy Award-winning Argentinian classical composer Osvaldo Golijov. In an interview, Coppola said that he made the film as a meditation on time and on consciousness, which he considers a \"changing tapestry of illusion\", but he stated that the film may also be appreciated as a beautiful love story, or as a mystery.\n\nIn 1938, Dominic Matei (Tim Roth), a 70-year-old professor of linguistics, pining after the love of his youth, Laura (Alexandra Maria Lara), travels to Bucharest, the city where he and she met at university. Feeling that his fruitless search for the origin of human language has condemned him to a solitary, wasted life, Dominic is intent on committing suicide after this one last journey. However, while crossing the street, he is abruptly yet non-lethally struck by lightning. In hospital, Professor Stanciulescu (Bruno Ganz) informs Dominic that, much to both their surprises, the lighting appears to have regenerated him into a much younger man. Soon after, while residing at the Professor's home, Dominic also discovers that he possesses strange, psychic capacities.\n\nAs Romania is invaded by Nazi Germany, Doktor Josef Rudolf (André Hennicke) begins to show an interest in Stanciulescu's miracle patient. Since Dominic's budding powers have blurred his perception of reality, he is bamboozled into mistaking a Nazi spy known only as the Woman in Room Six for an erotic fantasy, who discovers during their nights together that he has developed a talent for speaking in tongues. Meanwhile, an alternate persona, invisible to human eyes, presents itself to Dominic as his \"Other\" from outside space and time. When Dominic asks for proof, the \"Other\" obliges by bringing him two roses out of nowhere. Unbeknownst to Dominic, Stanciulescu has witnessed the event and overhears his friend ask himself, \"Where do you want me to put the third rose?\" Understanding the Nazis' designs, Stanciulescu persuades Dominic to escape from Romania.\n\nLiving like a spy, Dominic eventually winds up in Switzerland towards the end of the war, where he is confronted by Doktor Rudolf at gunpoint in an alleyway. Rudolf argues that Dominic's existence supports the Nazis' ideal of the superman, and that the coming nuclear conflicts can only be survived by a superior species of man. In the background, the \"Other\" confirms this to be the case. However, in refusing to cooperate, Dominic manifests telekinetic powers which manipulate Rudolf into shooting himself. Subsequently, Dominic returns to a normal existence and resumes his linguistic research. Having realised that the lightning strike has partially lent him the capacities and knowledge of future humanity, he develops a secret language for his audio diary, to be deciphered long after the nuclear apocalypse.\n\nMany years later, Dominic encounters a woman named Veronica (Alexandra Maria Lara) while hiking in the Alps. The \"Other\" reveals her to be the reincarnation of Laura. When the mountains are hit by a violent thunderstorm, Dominic rushes to her rescue and finds her chanting in Sanskrit, which he greets her with to gain her trust. During her stay in hospital, Veronica now identifies herself as \"Rupini\", one of the first disciples of the Buddha. Suspecting she may now be afflicted with a condition similar to his own, Dominic calls the Roman College of Oriental Studies for aid, who inform him that Rupini's last act in life was to retire into a cave for meditation on Enlightenment. Since the cave's location is unknown, the scholars, led by Professor Giuseppe Tucci (Marcel Iures), agree to fund an expedition to find it in India, hoping Veronica's past self will guide them. The venture proves a success when a local Boddhisatva recognises \"Rupini\" and directs her to the place of meditation. Following this discovery, Veronica becomes herself again and falls for Dominic.\n\nThe couple elope to Malta, where for a time, they live happily together, until Dominic tells Veronica in her sleep that he has always loved her. This causes Veronica to writhe in bed as if possessed and begin chanting a language even he does not understand. The \"Other\" explains that she is speaking in ancient Egyptian, having travelled further back along the path of her past selves. For the next two weeks, Dominic learns how to control this state in Veronica, leading her to regress ever further in time and speak previously unknown tongues. However, Veronica's health begins to decline from exhaustion, and Dominic declares that he cannot continue these sessions, or even being close to Veronica, since his proximity to her is accelerating her age. Over the objections of both Veronica and the \"Other\", he leaves.\n\nDespairing, Dominic returns to the town where he taught as a professor. His alter ego appears to him in a miror and reveals the future of mankind; nuclear warfare will unleash an electromagnetic pulse, giving birth to a new, powerful human species, of which Dominic is but the first member. Veronica symbolised the dawn of man, and he stood for the dusk. Outraged at the idea of sacrificing millions of lives in the name of evolution, Dominic shatters the mirror, causing the \"Other\" to vanish, yelling incoherently in an unfamiliar language. In the morning, townsfolk find Dominic's body, lying dead at the bottom of a staircase. As Veronica's voice is heard echoing \"Where do you want me to put the third rose?\", the rose appears in Dominic's lifeless grasp.\n\n\n\"Youth Without Youth\" grossed $244,397 in North America and $2.4 million in other countries for a worldwide total of $2.6 million.\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 31% based on 103 reviews, with an average rating of 4.7/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Although visually appealing, Coppola's latest film mixes too many genres with a very confusing plot.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 43 out of 100, based on 29 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". \"The New York Times\" gave it high praise, writing, \"In this film Mr. Coppola blurs dreams and everyday life and suggests that through visual and narrative experimentation he has begun the search for new ways of making meaning, new holy places for him and for us.\". \"Variety\", however, was \"disappointed\" by the \"mishmash plotting\" and \"stilted script\". Rex Reed panned the film, writing, \"You know a movie is doomed when the only star in it is Tim Roth. You know it's pretentious when the ads print the logo backward and upside down. Not one word of this bilge makes one lick of sense, and it is two hours and six minutes long. The only way to survive \"Youth Without Youth\" is dead drunk.\" Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film one-and-a-half out of four stars, stating that \"[t]here is such a thing as a complex film that rewards additional viewing and study, but \"Youth Without Youth,\" I am afraid, is no more than it seems: a confusing slog through metaphysical murkiness.\"\n\nIn 2016, Scout Tafoya of \"RogerEbert.com\" included the film in his video series \"The Unloved\", where he highlights films which received mixed to negative reviews that he believes to have artistic value. He stated that Coppola \"made a film he would have wanted to see, with energy borrowed from his heroes. But this film is all him, really. What other major American director would throw out studio money just to scamper around Europe re-living the years of his father's prime? ... I saw the human struggling to change the world through his work, and the ways in which he failed himself, and I felt for him.\"\n\nThe film was nominated for Best Cinematography at the 2008 Independent Spirit Awards.\n\n"}
